Psychiatric, psychological, and neurological characteristics of patients with chronic low back pain]	We examined 143 patients, aged 18-65 years, with chronic low back pain, in 78 of patients diagnosed as chronic somatoform pain disorder (CSPD)--ICD-10 F45.4--and in 65 as chronic pain syndrome (CPS) caused by spine pathology (M48.0, M51.1, M54.4). Depressive symptoms predominated in CSPD patients, who exhibited more pronounced psychopathological disturbances and two-fold higher frequency of personality disorders, comparing to those with CPS. In CSPD patients pain severity and reaction to pain syndrome were significantly higher than in CPS patients. Psychodiagnostic study revealed higher expressed anxiety and depression as well as socio-psychological maladaptation in CSPD patients as compared to CPS ones. After neurological examination, significant between-group differences were found in the frequency of muscular-tonic myofacial, syndrome and iliosacral joint dysfunction.
Self-esteem and cosmetic surgery: is there a relationship between the two?	This article addresses the correlation between a patient's self-esteem and the demand for and use of cosmetic surgery. The greater purpose of this article is to broaden nurses' understanding of the profound influence of self-esteem as it relates to cosmetic surgery patients and their decision to have surgery.
Treating patients with medically unexplained symptoms in primary care.	There are no proven, comprehensive treatments in primary care for patients with medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) even though these patients have high levels of psychosocial distress, medical disability, costs, and utilization. Despite extensive care, these common patients often become worse.
Psychological factors in chronic urticaria]	Chronic urticaria is above all a cutaneous disease, affecting the skin, a visible organ, which plays a privileged role in relational life. Like any chronic disease, it raises two principal problems: preservation of the quality of life and therapeutic compliance. In chronic urticaria, psychological factors intervene on several levels: the doctor-patient relationship, the urticarian crisis itself, the onset and/or the aggravation of the disease, and the psychosocial consequences of urticaria. The role of psychological factors in the onset and/or the aggravation of the disease is variously estimated, generally based on retrospective studies and without consensus between the authors. On the other hand, the psychosocial impact of the disease is regularly mentioned: 30 to 40 p. 100 of the patients presenting with an associated depressive state. Quality of life is especially impaired in case of an associated physical urticaria. These data plead in favour of taking into account the psychological factors involved in the disease in order to propose, combined with the classical treatments of chronic urticaria and before the use of heavier treatments, a psychological treatment, i.e. a prescription of psychotropic drugs (especially antidepressants), alone or associated to a psychotherapy (a relaxation technique for example), without forgetting health education sessions.
Why do slim women consider themselves too heavy? A characterization of adult women considering their body weight as too heavy.	The purpose of this study was to characterize women who, in spite of a low body mass index (BMI), considered themselves too heavy.
Restructuring illness meaning through the clinical encounter: a process of disruption and coherence.	This study explores restructuring of illness meaning among ten Turkish-born women, assessed as somatizing, encountering caregivers imposing a "psychological language" for understanding distress. Participants were referred from local health care services in Western Stockholm, Sweden. Data were collected between 1997 and 2001 from 37 interviews with ten women. Data were analyzed using a qualitative method with a grounded theory approach to construct an understanding of meaning making from an emic perspective. Participants' restructuring included loss of earlier meanings given to illness, shifts in expressions and healing strategies, and a push toward giving illness and suffering a psychological or psychiatric meaning. Restructuring had in many ways been a disruptive and complicated experience. In their everyday context participants were engaged in bridging gaps between different perspectives of looking upon their illness. They had poor support from their social context in creating coherence between frames of meaning. On the basis of the results the author suggests that Antonovsky's concept of sense of coherence (SOC) may have relevance to the process of restructuring illness meaning, and that constructing coherence between experience, expression, past, and new meanings given to illness may be significant for patients' recovery. For clinical care, results indicate that restructuring should be done so as not to impose too alien a reordering of the disruptive experiences of illness. With regard to further research, results indicate the importance of gaining insight into how individuals and social and cultural groups make sense of their interaction with caregivers and local health care services.
Depressive symptoms in Asian TMD patients and their association with non-specific physical symptoms reporting.	The expression of depression in Asian temporomandibular disorder (TMD) patients may differ from that of their Caucasian counterparts. This study examined the prevalence of depressive symptoms and their association with non-specific physical symptoms (NPSs) reporting in Asian patients.
The outcome of physical symptoms with treatment of depression.	This study examined the prevalence, impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and outcome of physical symptoms in depressed patients during 9 months of antidepressant therapy.
The Thematic Apperception Test as an aid in understanding the psychodynamics of development of chronic idiopathic pain syndrome.	41 chronically ill low-back pain patients (27 women, 14 men) with a long history of work disablement (median = 2 years and 8 months) were submitted to thematic apperception testing (TAT). The tape-recorded protocols were evaluated by 2 independent, experienced clinicians well acquainted with the TAT, as well as with psychoanalytic theory and technique. The 2 evaluators judged almost all the patients as depressive, alexithymic, passive and antiaggressive with clear tendencies to reaction formation towards underlying aggressivity. Many patients were further judged as guilt-ridden with an unresolved oedipal conflict, while others had a deep oral problem with suicidal tendencies. Two of the patients were judged by both evaluators as having psychotic or prepsychotic traits. Overall interrater reliability was very high, with a correlation for the different categories between 0.50 and 0.76 (median 0.72 and p value never below 0.005). Our results indicate that one of the main characteristics of low-back pain patients is the denial of aggression. Other main features of our patients were depressivity, passivity and oral or oedipal conflicts, alexithymia and lack of internal locus of control. Also we find the TAT as a very suitable test for achieving the understanding of the complexity of the problem of pain.
Psychosocial interventions for somatizing patients by the general practitioner: a randomized controlled trial.	The objective of this study was to compare the effects of psychosocial interventions based on the modified reattribution model for somatizing patients in general practice (GP) with those of nonspecific psychosocial primary care (PPC) alone.
Management of somatic presentations of psychiatric illness in general medical settings: evaluation of a new training course for general practitioners.	An improved teaching package is described which aims to help general practice trainees manage somatized presentations of psychological distress. The package comprises a training videotape in which a reattribution model is demonstrated, with material for role-play of new skills and small-group video feedback of consultations. Eighteen general practice trainees attending an 8-week course in psychiatry participated fully in the somatization management teaching programme. The teaching package was evaluated by blind rating of general interview skills and model specific skills demonstrated by trainees during 10 to 15-minute clinical interviews with professional role-players. Ratings were made on pre-training and post-training videotaped interviews. A significant improvement was demonstrated in general interview skills. Improvements were also noted in specific reattribution skills post-training. The evaluation revealed that skills in the model can be effectively learned, and that improvements in the package have resulted in its improved efficacy.
Fatigue and fatigue-related symptoms in an orofacial pain population.	The aims of this study were to investigate the presence and magnitude of self-reported fatigue and fatigue-related symptoms and to determine whether fatigue can be distinguished as a unique clinical symptom in a sample of patients diagnosed with chronic temporomandibular joint or masticatory muscle pain.
Some thoughts on the psychoanalytic situation.	This article develops ideas set out in a previous study on the "archaic matrix of the Oedipus complex" versus the fully developed Oedipus complex (their similarities and their differences), applying these to a study of the psychoanalytic situation. The central hypothesis is that there is a correspondence between the psychoanalytic situation and the structure of the mental apparatus. The author supposes that our perception of the world is intimately linked to the primary maternal relationship, to our wish to fuse with the mother once more, and to the accompanying fear such a wish inspires. To deal with this we create enclaves where the regressive wish can be satisfied without fear of ego dissolution. The author suggests that the psychoanalytic situation is one such enclave. She examines its specific features in the light of the structure of the mental apparatus as she defines it.
Female college students and cosmetic surgery: an investigation of experiences, attitudes, and body image.	This large, multisite study investigated female college students' experiences with and attitudes about cosmetic surgery. The study also assessed the relationship between several aspects of body image, including appearance satisfaction and investment and symptoms of body dysmorphic disorder, and interest in cosmetic surgery. Thirty (5 percent) of the 559 women surveyed reported that they had undergone cosmetic surgery. Two thirds of respondents reported knowing someone who had received cosmetic surgery, and approximately one third indicated that a family member had undergone surgery. Overall, participants held relatively favorable attitudes about surgery. Regression analysis suggested that a greater psychological investment in physical appearance and greater internalization of mass media images of beauty predicted more favorable attitudes toward cosmetic surgery. Fourteen women (2.5 percent) screened positive for body dysmorphic disorder based on the nature and severity of their self-reported body-image concerns. Results of this study provide new information on young women's experiences and attitudes about cosmetic surgery and how these attitudes relate to body image.
Long-term psychosocial adjustment in patients with severe burn injuries: a follow-up study.	An investigation of the long-term psychosocial adjustment of patients with severe burn injuries is presented. In the selected 13-year period (1968-80) 46 patients fulfilled the entry criteria: burns covering more than 30 per cent body surface area (deep dermal or full skin thickness). Seventeen patients died early and one later. Of the remaining 28 patients, contact was made with 25 (89.3 per cent) who all participated. The observation time ranged between 7 and 21 years. The patients received a semi-standardized interview adjusted for age at the time of burn injury, a psychiatric interview and a physical examination to assess the permanent character and functional loss. The principal findings were: no correlation could be found between degree of disfiguration/function loss and the long-term psychosocial adaptation after severe burn injuries. The determinant factor was the premorbid psychiatric/psychological integration and, to some extent, support from staff and relatives.
Psychological precursors of panic attacks.	The ongoing experience of panic disorder was assessed in 20 female subjects, to determine psychological precursors to panic attacks. Measures of anxiety, threat, control, prediction of panic, and symptoms were assessed at hourly intervals during waking hours for one week. Measures were taken using a portable computerised diary which prompted for and stored responses. Patients' ratings of the prediction of panic attacks were the only significant precursors to panic attacks. This supports recent research that expectancy is important in panic onset. The data also suggested that anxiety levels follow a circadian pattern.
A randomized trial of psychiatric consultation with distressed high utilizers.	This study reports the results of a randomized trial of a psychiatric consultation intervention with distressed, high utilizing patients of 18 physicians in two primary care clinics. Psychiatric consultation was associated with a significant increase in the use of antidepressants in intervention patients compared with controls in the first 6 months after intervention. Intervention patients were also significantly more likely to continue antidepressant treatment than control patients. The primary care physicians receiving psychiatric consultations increased the rate of prescribing antidepressant medications in their practice from 32 prescriptions filled per 1,000 visits before their participation in four consultations to 44 new prescriptions per 1,000 visits in the 12-month period after. There were no significant differences between intervention patients and controls at 6 and 12 months after randomization in psychiatric distress, functional disability, or utilization of health care (ambulatory visits, radiographic and laboratory testing services, admissions to inpatient medical care).
The role of psychological factors in the report of building-related symptoms in sick building syndrome.	Sick building syndrome (SBS) is an increasingly common problem, although continued skepticism exists regarding its validity. Because of this, the attribution of complaints to psychogenic causes or mas hysteria persists. In this study (N = 111), self-report measures of psychopathology (Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory [Hathaway & McKinley, 1983] and SCL-90-R [Derogatis, 1983]) and physical symptom reports failed to discriminate symptomatic from nonsymptomatic workers in an affected building but could more generally differentiate workers in the target building from control subjects. These results suggest that SBS cannot be justifiably attributed to psychological factors alone, although working in a contaminated environment appeared to have deleterious psychological consequences for some workers. Smoking history (in pack/years [packs per day x number of years smoked]) was reliably associated with the development of symptoms in exposed workers. Issues related to the assessment of psychological complaints in SBS are discussed.
Coping ability, stress, productive load, and symptoms.	A study of 450 college students demonstrated (a) the importance of a distinction between self-produced and externally produced stressors, (b) the usefulness of a construct of productive load, and (c) stronger relations of the Constructive Thinking Inventory than of the Hardiness Questionnaire with productive load and with mental and physical symptoms. Because a major path through which coping ability influences symptoms is negative emotions, the widely recommended practice of partialing self-reported negative affect out of relations among coping, stress, and symptoms is often inappropriate. However, as total daily stressors (e.g., hassles) consist largely of self-produced stressors, it is highly confounded with coping ability, and it is therefore important to partial coping ability out of relations between total stressors and other variables.
The course of psychiatric disorder associated with non-specific chest pain.	One hundred and eight consecutive patients admitted urgently for the first time with chest pain were interviewed to assess psychiatric symptoms prior to admission, at admission and three months later. Seventy-one patients had ischaemic heart disease, 19 had non-specific chest pain and 18 patients were excluded because of other organic causes for the pain. Compared to the ischaemic heart disease subjects, the non-specific chest pain patients tended to have more psychiatric disorder which increased over the three assessments; at follow up 33% of ischaemic heart disease patients and 59% of non-specific chest pain patients had psychiatric disorder. Chest pain was reported by 71% of the non-specific group at three months but this was not related to presence of psychiatric disorder. Unlike previous studies which 'have assessed out-patients with normal coronary angiograms', this study has shown that males predominate among patients admitted urgently with non-specific chest pain. In addition, these subjects use greater amounts of cigarettes and alcohol, and experience significantly more psychiatric disorder compared to patients admitted with ischaemic heart disease. The factors which lead to some of these patients developing chronic non-specific chest pain need to be investigated in further studies.
Habitual somatic discomfort in a representative sample of adolescents.	The study is concerned with relations between habitual somatic discomfort, assessed by means of a questionnaire, and indicators of psychosocial adjustment, in a representative sample of 15-16 yr-old Finnish girls (N = 179) and boys (N = 205). Symptom prevalence was associated with anxiety, negative relations with parents, modest plans for education, fear of the future, loneliness, smoking, and drinking. These associations were significant for the boys but not for the girls. High symptom scores also tended to be associated with difficult peer relations (fighting, being target of peers' verbal aggression), and with the use of aggressive and the lack of constructive coping strategies in conflict situations. Boys who often felt lonely and girls who had been involved in physical fights with peers had consistently high scores. Different symptom patterns and sex differences are discussed.
Arousability and stress-related physical symptoms: a validation study of Coren's arousal predisposition scale.	Coren's Arousal Predisposition Scale was validated against 249 college students' self-ratings of stress-related physical symptoms and an item that assessed general level of health. As we predicted, the 126 high-arousability subjects were substantially higher in mean stress-related symptoms score and lower in general health than the 123 peers low in arousability. These data suggest that the Arousal Predisposition Scale may be a useful instrument in the study of human stress.
Eating attitudes in survivors of unwanted sexual experiences.	To investigate an hypothesized link between unwanted sexual experiences in childhood and later problems with eating, 21 survivors of sexual abuse completed three questionnaires: the Eating Attitudes Test, the Sexual Events Questionnaire, and the General Health Questionnaire. These women scored high on the EAT, and scores were higher for women who reported more sexual experiences. A similar relation was found between number of sexual experiences and depression, and anxiety and insomnia, but not with somatic symptoms. The implications of these findings for intervention in sexual abuse and eating disorder cases are discussed.
Sick building syndrome and related workplace disorders.	It has been estimated that as many as 1.2 million commercial buildings have characteristics of sick building syndrome. That is, persons who work in these buildings describe a cluster of symptoms--irritation of eyes, nose, throat, and skin, respiratory ailments, headaches, dizziness, confusion, and unusual odor or taste sensations--that occur during occupation of the building but diminish when these persons leave these buildings. There have been a number of factors that have been implicated in the development of sick building syndrome. These include type of building ventilation, light intensity, tobacco smoke, wall-to-wall carpeting, crowding, work satisfaction, gender, and presence of volatile organic compounds. Sick building syndrome has many signs and symptoms of other workplace disorders (e.g., neurotoxic disorders, mass psychogenic illness), each of which manifest in rather imprecise psychological and somatic symptoms. There are, however, specific characteristics that distinguish these disorders. It is likely that the development and persistence of the sick building syndrome is not caused solely by building characteristics or simply a result of psychological variables. Rather, a synergistic relationship exists between building, environmental, and individual factors.
The efficacy of problem solving therapy in reducing mental and physical health problems: a meta-analysis.	This paper describes a meta-analysis of 31 studies that examined the efficacy of problem solving therapy (PST). The meta-analysis, encompassing 2895 participants, showed that PST is significantly more effective than no treatment (d=1.37), treatment as usual (d=0.54), and attention placebo (d=0.54), but not significantly more effective than other bona fide treatments offered as part of a study (d=0.22). Significant moderators included whether the PST included problem-orientation training, whether homework was assigned, and whether a developer of PST helped conduct the study.
The role of neuroticism and perceived school-related stress in somatic symptoms among students in Norwegian junior high schools.	The present study investigated the role of neuroticism and perceived school-related stress in somatic symptoms among a sample of 327 (167 females and 160 males) students in two Norwegian junior high schools. The results suggest that the role of neuroticism on somatic symptoms may be overestimated, and that the role of stress may be underestimated if neuroticism, stress and somatic symptoms are measured at the same time. In this study, both neuroticism and perceived school-related stress were found to be significantly associated with somatic symptoms.
The close relationships of Lesbians and gay men.	This article reviews empirical studies of same-sex couples in the United States, highlighting consistent findings, drawing comparisons to heterosexual couples, and noting gaps in available research. U.S. Census data indicate that there were more than 600,000 same-sex couples living together in 2000. Research about relationship formation, the division of household labor, power, satisfaction, sexuality, conflict, commitment, and relationship stability is presented. Next, we highlight three recent research topics: the legalization of same-sex relationships through civil unions and same-sex marriage, the experiences of same-sex couples raising children, and the impact of societal prejudice and discrimination on same-sex partners. We conclude with comments about the contributions of empirical research to debunking negative stereotypes of same-sex couples, testing the generalizability of theories about close relationships, informing our understanding of gender and close relationships, and providing a scientific basis for public policy.
The tripartite model for assessing symptoms of anxiety and depression: psychometrics of the Dutch version of the mood and anxiety symptoms questionnaire.	The tripartite model conceptualizes symptoms of depression and anxiety in three groups: low positive affect and anhedonia, which is specific to depression, somatic arousal, which is unique to anxiety, and nonspecific general distress. The Mood and Anxiety Symptoms Questionnaire (MASQ) was developed to measure these symptom domains. This study reports on the psychometric properties of the Dutch translation of the MASQ.
Hypnotizability and somatic complaints: a gender-specific phenomenon.	The relationship between hypnotizability and somatic illness was measured in 45 college students. Several weeks after completing the Waterloo-Stanford Group C Scale (WSGC), participants filled out a somatic-complaint checklist and measures of psychopathology. Results indicated a positive correlation between hypnotizability and somatic illness, and the relationship was stronger for female participants. In contrast to the quadratic model proposed by Wickramasekera, the current data demonstrated a linear relationship between hypnotizability and somatic complaint. Further analyses showed that somatic complaints were associated with hallucination and imagery items, corresponding to the perceptual-cognitive factor identified in Woody, Barnier, and McConkey's (2005) factor analysis of the Stanford Hypnotic Susceptibility Scale, Form C. The results call into question some claims that high hypnotizability is an adaptive and healthy trait.
Long-term psychiatric treatment.	Is long term psychiatric care superfluous? Can it be provided by non medical therapists? This paper examines this question from the perspective of one patient who was in therapy for 20 years.
Child psychiatry consultations to pediatric inpatients: a literature review.	While the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in clinical pediatric populations is high, only a few studies have systematically examined child psychiatry consultations to pediatric inpatients. This paper reviews this body of literature and indicates important areas for further study. Some of the studies did not report basic data such as the number of consults, age, sex, or race of referrals, and referral rate. Without such basic data, it is impossible to make adequate comparisons between studies. Several studies did not report economic status or admission diagnosis of the child, psychiatric intervention/treatment on the ward, or psychiatric referral after discharge. Mostly the samples were small, including data on less than 100 inpatient consults. There is a need for greater consistency in the classification of reasons for referral, so that accurate and meaningful comparisons can be made across sites. The examination of psychiatric diagnoses was complicated by the wide range of diagnostic classifications that have been used. Standardization on the DSM-III-R/IV diagnostic system would make for greater comparability between studies. It would be useful in planning for services if future studies included cost as well as efficacy studies with a randomized control group.
Somatization: a perspective from self psychology.	Somatization is a complex phenomenon that occurs in many forms and diverse settings. It is not necessarily pathological and may be found in a variety of psychiatric disorders. Much of the psychiatric literature has focused on patients with conversion disorders and hypochondriasis. Psychoanalytic theories regarding such conditions were largely based upon concepts of drive, conflict, and defense. The perspective from self psychology, with its emphasis on subjective experience and the sense of self, may further enhance the psychoanalytic understanding of somatization. Individuals with disturbances in the stability and organization of the self may present with somatic symptoms and disturbances in emotional awareness. Somatization in such cases may be the experiential manifestation of a disturbance in the cohesion of the self and/or may result from defensive operations to ward off affect. The latter may be prominent when affective arousal triggers the psychological threat of fragmentation. Somatization may diminish in such individuals when a self-object relationship is formed that bolsters and consolidates the sense of self. The integration of affect into ongoing subjective experience may also be an important aspect of psychoanalytic treatment in such patients.
Somatic correspondences during psychoanalysis.	Somatic as well as cognitive correspondences occur during psychoanalytic treatment. The somatic type have received little, if any, attention from the analytic community, at least in terms of published references. Somatic symptom(s), activated by external events in his or her life, first appear in the analyst. Almost immediately thereafter identical or closely similar experiences appear in the analysand and (during the treatment hour) are verbalized by him or her. Should attempts to understand correspondences stop at this point, it is easy to conclude they are due to mere coincidence, but they have deep, unconscious roots. Analytic exploration of these roots reveals practically simultaneous occurrence of certain activated conflict residues in the analyst and comparable ongoing but far less worked-through conflict areas in the analysand. The brief interval when these activated facets become approximate in intensity appears to be the trigger for the correspondence. Preoedipal aspects of unconscious conflict are more apt to be reflected in somatic correspondence, whereas oedipal aspects are more likely to be expressed in cognitive correspondence. In any event, data available from the case material reported suggest that from a psychological point of view the unconscious plays a significant role in extrasensory and unverbalized communication and suggest addition of the concept of body-language transference to that of thought transference.
The stigma of mental illness: anticipation and attitudes among patients with epileptic, dissociative or somatoform pain disorder.	The aim of this study was to survey the attitudes of 101 consecutive in- and out-patients with epileptic, dissociative or somatoform pain disorders (mean age: 43 [+/-11] years; 58% female) from either the Department of Psychiatry or Neurology toward anticipated mental illness stigma. The patients were administered a modified 12-item version of Links Stigma Questionnaire. Nearly 60% of all 101 patients believe that "most people" would not allow a mental patient "to take care of their children", "most young women" would be "reluctant to date a man" who has been treated for a mental illness and "most employers would pass over" the application of a psychiatric patient in favour of another applicant. Fifty five percent of the respondents assume that "most people think less of a person who has been in a mental hospital" and over a half of all patients interviewed assert that the general population thinks that psychiatric patients are "less intelligent, less trustworthy and that their opinion is taken less seriously by others". Gender, age and education had no influence on the overall results. There is a high stigmatisation concerning psychiatry even in patients with epilepsy and somatoform/dissociative symptoms with psychiatric comorbidity. Fear of being stigmatized is more pronounced among somatoform pain patients as compared to patients suffering from epileptic or dissocative disorders, with particular reference to close personal relationships.
A coping with Stress Training (SBT) for persons with mental illness--pilot study on a group training programme in support of occupational rehabilitation]	This pilot study investigates the effects of a coping with stress training (SBT) programme which had been offered in the Workshop for Disabled People of the Stuttgart Occupational Rehabilitation Center Rudolf-Sophien-Stift to persons with mental illness. The group training is aimed at supporting the participants in coping effectively with stress, avoiding over- or under-stimulation and strengthening positive experiences.
A preliminary evaluation of cognitive-behaviour therapy for clinical perfectionism: a case series.	The construct of 'clinical perfectionism' has been developed in response to criticisms that other approaches have failed to yield advances in the treatment of the type of self-oriented perfectionism that poses a clinical problem. The primary aim of this study was to conduct a preliminary investigation into the efficacy of a theory-driven, cognitive-behavioural intervention for 'clinical perfectionism'.
Acute back pain: a psychological analysis.	A cross-sectional evaluation of 117 people who sustained acute back injuries was undertaken within 15 days of the first report of the pain. The subjects showed no discal or neural signs and had not experienced previous episodes of back or neck pain. All subjects were given a structured interview and filled in a series of psychological evaluation instruments. Results show acute pain reactions to be comparable to those seen in chronic pain groups. The predominant emotion is one of frustration rather than anxiety or depression and considerable behavioural disruption is evident from this early point. The extent to which these data undermine the model of gradual evolution of chronic back pain problems is discussed.
The evolution of chronic back pain problems: a longitudinal study.	A longitudinal evaluation of the recovery from an acute back pain episode was undertaken on 117 sufferers, with assessments at the onset, 3 and 6 months. The number of individuals still reporting pain at 6 months, and therefore qualifying for 'chronic pain', was considerably higher than expected (40%). At 6 months, the persisting pain problems were found to be moderate to severe in intensity in approx. 20% of cases. Despite the pain, the chronic sufferers showed gradual continuing adjustments to it, re-establishing activities despite pain. Most of the change in the pain components (cognitive, subjective, behavioral, depression, anxiety) occur in the first 3 months, after which considerable stability is evident in the residual problem. In contrast, the impact of the pain and the consequent disability decline more markedly and continue to do so right up to the 6 month point. There was no evidence of chronic pain evolving and growing, but rather of a persistence of the acute presentation.
Psychological distress, somatization, and defense mechanisms associated with quality of life in inflammatory bowel disease patients.	Clinical parameters predict health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but some patients have impaired HRQOL despite being in clinical remission.
Day-to-day physical symptoms: individual differences in the occurrence, duration, and emotional concomitants of minor daily illnesses.	Even minor illnesses represent significant events in the ongoing lives of most people. As such, daily event methodologies could be applied to the study of ongoing health and illness. When daily health is considered as a temporal process, it is possible to expand our formulation of the relation between personality and day-to-day health. We used a daily event approach to model three temporal parameters of day-to-day health: the occurrence rate of symptoms, the duration of symptoms, and the covariation of symptoms and moods over time. We then examine whether these three models of day-to-day health are related to personality variables commonly used in health psychology research. The occurrence of illness related most strongly to neuroticism, the duration of illness related most strongly to the trait of aggressive responding, and Type A behavior related to less unpleasant affect reported during episodes of respiratory infection, aches, and depressive symptoms. Results are discussed in terms of how alternative models of health/illness are made possible by the daily event perspective.
Personal strivings, daily life events, and psychological and physical well-being.	Interactional models of life events and personality posit domains of vulnerability within which individuals are most likely to be affected by negative life events. A variation of this model was tested in a study of the separate as well as interactive effects of daily life events and personal strivings on psychological and physical well-being. Subjects listed 15 of their personal strivings,which were later categorized as reflecting either achievement, affiliation, intimacy, or power. For 21 consecutive days, subjects recorded up to eight events that most influenced their moods each day, and completed mood and physical symptom checklists. Power strivings were negatively correlated with well-being. Affiliation strivings were correlated with positive affect. No significant between-subject interactions occurred between strivings and events. However, within-subject analyses revealed several significant effects. Achievement-oriented individuals tended to be affected by good achievement events; similarly, the moods of affiliation- and intimacy-oriented individuals were affected by interpersonal events. Results are interpreted within a transactional framework, and implications for research on personality, life events, and well-being are discussed.
Psychological factors affecting pulmonary and rheumatologic diseases. A review.	This review examines some of the questions and current literature regarding psychological factors as they affect pulmonary and rheumatologic diseases. Recommendations are made concerning directions for future research in these areas.
Beyond attentional strategies: cognitive-perceptual model of somatic interpretation.	The meaning people assign to physical sensations can have profound implications for their physical and psychological health. A predominant research question in somatic interpretation asks if it is more adaptive to distract one's attention away from a potentially unpleasant sensation or to focus one's attention on it. This question, however, has yielded equivocal answers. Many apparent ambiguities in this research can be traced to a failure to distinguish the content of a person's attention from its mere direction or degree. A model of somatic interpretation is discussed, incorporating not only perceptual focus but also the attributions, goals, coping strategies, and prior hypotheses of the perceiver, thus delineating the psychobiological conditions under which various attentional strategies should be adaptive. In contrast to the prevailing concern with when and why somatic distraction doesn't "work," this conceptual analysis also considers when and why somatic attention does. Theoretical and methodological issues are discussed, as is the potential utility of somatic attention in cardiac rehabilitation and multiple sclerosis.
Perceptions of the work environment among people with experience of long term sick leave.	The aims were to describe and analyze how people with experience of long term sick leave perceive that factors in their work environment support or interfere with work performance, satisfaction, and well-being.
An examination of hardiness and neuroticism as potential moderators of stress outcomes.	The perception of stress is believed to result in negative consequences as a result of complex interactions among a number of variables. This study of a random sample of 234 male highway patrol officers examined the relationship among stress measures (perception of stress, report of daily hassles, and items unique to police work) and the specific consequences of stress (burnout, physical symptoms, and job dissatisfaction). Our hypothesis was that hardiness and neuroticism would moderate the relationship between stress and its consequences and that the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) would emerge as a significant predictor of the strain experienced. The two moderator variables we examined exerted clearer main effects, rather than moderating influences, on the outcome measures. The authors found that the PSS was an important and significant predictor of stress-induced consequences.
Stress among factory workers in a developing country.	This cross-sectional study reveals that a significant proportion (35%) of the sampled population of factory workers experienced measurable health problems in the form of anxiety, sleep disturbance, depression, somatic complaints and other clinical indicators of stress. Job stress and social support levels experienced by the group of workers judged 'sick' were significantly different from the control group, particularly so for employees in the lower levels of work hierarchy. In consonance with findings from the literature, job stress has a significant impact on mental health, with all the job stress parameters accounting for 41% of the variation in the general health. Those job stress variables that were significant predictors of health were job pressure, namely security and job tension, and interpersonal rewards. Extrinsic rewards i.e. those factors relating to income and status were not significant predictors of health. Perceived social support tended to increase at the higher levels of occupational status and at the work place it appeared to exert a positive influence on health presumably by counteracting the adverse effects of job stress. This study stresses the need for industrial organizations of the emergent nations to initiate measures which would enhance health status of workers as a cardinal factor in organizational growth [corrected].
Survey of mental health of foreign students.	The multifaceted nature of problems foreign students face have led some researchers to conclude that these students tend to suffer from poor health during their overseas sojourn. This assertion is examined among foreign students at the University of Bergen by means of a questionnaire survey. Loneliness, tiredness, sadness and worrying were reported as a frequent source of problem by nearly one in four of over 300 respondents. Students reported a decline in their general state of health as well as a rise in the occurrence of syndrome-like tendencies resembling paranoia, anxiety, depression and somatic complaints. These tendencies were attributed to certain psychosocial factors such as information received regarding study opportunities, social contacts with other tenants in the hall of residence and future job opportunities. Scandinavian students on the whole tended to have better mental health than students from the other countries. The implications of impaired health among foreign students is discussed.
Short-term cognitive behavioral therapy for non-cardiac chest pain and benign palpitations: a randomized controlled trial.	Many patients with noncardiac chest pain or benign palpitations have poor prognosis in terms of symptom persistence, limitations in everyday activities, and reduced health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The aim of the study was to compare a three-session manualized cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) intervention with normal care for patients with noncardiac chest pain or benign palpitations in a randomized controlled trial.
Depression and anxiety in patients repeatedly referred to secondary care with medically unexplained symptoms: a case-control study.	One third of referrals from primary to secondary care are for medically unexplained symptoms (MUS). We aimed to determine the association of depression and anxiety disorders with high use of specialist services by patients with MUS. We did this by comparing their prevalence in patients who had been repeatedly referred with symptoms for which they had received repeated specialist diagnoses of MUS with that in two control groups. We also determined the adequacy of treatment received.
Revisiting the impact of part-time work on adolescent adjustment: distinguishing between selection and socialization using propensity score matching.	The impact of part-time employment on adolescent functioning remains unclear because most studies fail to adequately control for differential selection into the workplace. The present study reanalyzes data from L. Steinberg, S. Fegley, and S. M. Dornbusch (1993) using multiple imputation, which minimizes bias in effect size estimation, and 2 types of propensity score matching, to account for selection effects. In this sample (N = 1,792; Grades 10-11, M = 16.26), youth who begin working more than 20 hr per week evince declines in school engagement and increases in substance use and delinquency compared with youth who remain unemployed. Conversely, working 20 hr or less a week has negligible effects, positive or negative, on academic, psychological, or behavioral outcomes.
Levels of Emotional Awareness: a model for conceptualizing and measuring emotion-centered structural change.	The need to establish the efficacy of psychoanalytic long-term treatments has promoted efforts to operationalize psychic structure and structural change as key elements of psychoanalytic treatments and their outcomes. Current, promising measures of structural change, however, require extensive interviews and rater training. The purpose of this paper is to present the theory and measurement of Levels of Emotional Awareness (LEA) and to illustrate its use based on clinical case vignettes. The LEA model lays out a developmental trajectory of affective processing, akin to Piaget's theory of sensory-cognitive development, from implicit to explicit processing. Unlike other current assessments of psychic structure (Scales of Psychological Capacities, Reflective Functioning, Operationalized Psychodynamic Diagnostics) requiring intensive rater and interviewer training, it is easily assessed based on a self-report performance test. The LEA model conceptualizes a basic psychological capacity, affect processing. As we will illustrate using two case vignettes, by operationalizing implicit and explicit modes of affect processing, it provides a clinical measure of emotional awareness that is highly pertinent to the ongoing psychoanalytic debate on the nature and mechanisms of structural change.
The influence of gender role on the prediction of antisocial behaviour and somatization.	Previous research has demonstrated a sex-differentiated relationship between antisocial behaviour and somatization. One explanation posited is that societal expectations about male and female behaviour may influence a sex-differentiated expression of a common diathesis, but this idea has not been directly tested.
Key factors associated with oral health-related quality of life (OHRQOL) in Hong Kong Chinese adults with orofacial pain.	To investigate key factors associated with oral health-related quality of life (OHRQOL) of Hong Kong Chinese adults with orofacial pain (OFP) symptoms.
Cultural and migration aspects in functional abdominal pain]	Compared to Europe's mean immigrant contingent of 7.3 to 8.6 % Switzerland holds the highest contingent of foreign population with 23.5 %. Therefore it is of utmost importance that physicians have a knowledge of the specific characteristics of immigrant patients. The influence of personality factors (experience, behavior) is not independent from the influence of culturally-related environmental factors (regional differences in diet, pollutants, meanings, etc.). In addition, different cultural groups rate their quality of life differently. Psychological reasons for recurrent abdominal pain are stress (life events), effects of self-medication (laxatives, cocaine) and sexual abuse but also rare infectious diseases are more common among immigrants (e.g. tuberculosis, histoplasmosis, etc.). Migration-specific characteristics are mainly to find in the semiotics of the symptoms: not every abdominal pain is real pain in the abdomen. Finally, it is crucial to make the distinction between organic, functional and psychological-related pain. This can, however, usually only be accomplished in the context of the entire situation of a patient and, depending on the situation, with the support of a colleague from the appropriate cultural group or an experienced interpreter. In this review we limit ourselves to the presentation of the working population of the migrants, because these represent the largest group of all migrants. The specific situation of asylum seekers will also be refrained to where appropriate.
Traditional acupuncture for people with medically unexplained symptoms: a longitudinal qualitative study of patients' experiences.	People with medically unexplained physical symptoms (MUPS) are helped by interventions that combine physical and psychological explanations and treatment. Traditional acupuncture may offer such a perspective, but its use for these patients has not been investigated.
Do unexplained symptoms predict anxiety or depression? Ten-year data from a practice-based research network.	Unexplained symptoms are associated with depression and anxiety. This association is largely based on cross-sectional research of symptoms experienced by patients but not of symptoms presented to the GP.
Comparative analysis of integrative self-knowledge, mindfulness, and private self-consciousness in predicting responses to stress in Iran.	Previous research has established that awareness of self-experience is a stress resistance resource. The present study conducted an analysis of measures that record different aspects of self-awareness (private self-consciousness, mindfulness, and integrative self-knowledge) to explain this stress-resistance effect in a sample of Iranian university students (N = 186). These students responded to Mindfulness Attention Awareness, Private Self-Consciousness, Integrative Self-Knowledge, and Perceived Stress Scales just before the stress of a 20-day final examination period, and they then responded to Symptom Checklist and Vitality measures at four-day intervals during the final examinations. Prior to final examinations, the three self-awareness variables correlated positively with each other and negatively with perceived stress. Regression analyses of the data obtained during final examinations identified mindfulness to be a better operationalization of this stress-resistance resource than private self-consciousness. Specifically, mindfulness but not private self-consciousness was a positive predictor of vitality and a negative predictor of symptoms. Hierarchical regression analyses also demonstrated that mindfulness and integrative self-knowledge both explained resistance to physical symptoms, while integrative self-knowledge functioned as a protective factor toward one's vitality. These data confirm the positive impact that self-awareness has during stress and highlight the importance of considering both mindfulness and integrative self-knowledge in understanding stress-resistance processes.
Psychosocial aspects of temporomandibular disorders and oral health-related quality-of-life.	The aim of the study was to evaluate the association between psychosocial aspects of temporomandibular disorders (TMD) and oral health-related quality-of-life (OHRQoL) and, secondly, to investigate the gender differences in these associations using patient and non-patient groups.
Freshman year mental health symptoms and level of adaptation as predictors of Internet addiction: a retrospective nested case-control study of male Chinese college students.	A retrospective nested case-control study was designed to explore whether freshman year mental health status and level of adaptation are predictors of Internet addiction. The study cohort was 977 college students at a university in northwest China. In the first college year, the students' mental health status and adaptation level were assessed using the Chinese College Student Mental Health Scale (CCSMHS) and the Chinese College Student Adjustment Scale (CCSAS). In the following 1-3 years, 62 Internet-addicted subjects were identified using Young's 8-item diagnostic questionnaire. Controls were matched for demographic characteristics. Using logistic regression analysis, freshman year mental health status, including factors such as somatization, anxiety, depression and self-contempt, and freshman year adaptive problems were found to be causal factors and predictors of Internet addiction. Freshman with features of depression, learning maladaptation and dissatisfaction could be an important target-intervention population for reducing Internet addiction. 
Therapeutic relationship and communication. Attitude towards patients with functional pain syndromes]	Establishing a trustful therapeutic relationship and reflecting on attitudes and behavior is essential in caring for patients with functional pain syndromes. Hope-disappointment circles are common and can be intensified by unfavorable caregiver behavior. A biopsychosocial, empathetic and coping-oriented attitude has proved to be useful. A motivating communication is recommended that carefully explores the pain and its interactions with psychosocial factors following the three typical phases of accepting complaints, establishing biopsychosocial understanding and developing coping strategies. 
Mental health and social participation skills of wheelchair basketball players: a controlled study.	The aim of this study was to assess differences in psychological well-being, symptomatic psychological disorders and social participation, between competitive wheelchair basketball participants and those non-participants. Forty-six wheelchair participants, 24 Basketball players (aged 35.60  7.56) and 22 non-players (aged 36.20  6.23), completed three validated self-report questionnaires: Participation Scale (PS), Psychological Well-Being Scale [PWBS] and Symptom Checklist 90 R [SCL-90-R]. ANOVA showed significant overall differences between the two groups. The social restriction score, evaluated by PS, was significantly higher in the non-basketball participants (p=0.00001) than the basketball participants. The PWB Scale showed significant differences in all 6 dimensions: positive relations with others, environmental mastery, personal growth, purpose in life and self-acceptance (p<0.01), and autonomy (p<0.05), with better scores in the basketball participants. The SCL-90-R scores were significantly lower for the basketball group in the following 6 symptomatic dimensions: depression, phobic anxiety, and sleep disorder (p<0.01), somatization, interpersonal sensitivity and psychoticism (with p<0.05). It was concluded that competitive wheelchair basketball participants showed better psychological well-being and social skills than those non-participants.
A comparison of clinically and empirically derived MMPI groupings in low back pain patients.	Two methods of grouping MMPI scales were employed with 271 patients who were attending a Back Clinic at a university hospital. One method involved clinically derived decision rules, while the other utilized a multivariate clustering procedure. Five subgroups of patients were identified with each method. Both procedures showed subgroup differences in terms of pretreatment pain intensity, activity limitations, McGill affective scores, and physician ratings of degree of functional impairment; the elevated subgroups showed more dysfunction. Follow-up comparisons revealed that, regardless of the classification procedure used, the elevated subgroups showed poorer response to treatment. Only the clinically derived groupings had significant differences in chronicity of pain and total scores on the McGill Pain Questionnaire. On the other hand, only the statistically based system showed significant differences on age and marital status. Furthermore, only the statistical system identified subgroups of male patients that predicted followup pain intensity decreases in a manner that indicated clinical usefulness.
Comparison of major depressive patients with a predominantly sad versus anxious mood.	One hundred and seventy-seven patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) experienced a mood disturbance that could be characterized as predominantly sad (55%), anxious (31%) or mixed (14%). Patients that had a predominantly sad mood were more likely to be hypersomnic, anhedonic, younger and seen in an outpatient setting. Predominantly anxious MDD patients were more likely to have been hospitalized, agitated, psychotic, incapacitated, insomnic, and to have had higher post-dexamethasone cortisol levels.
'Bhanamati' sorcery and psychopathology in south India. A clinical study.	We describe the patterns of illness attributed to sorcery among 209 patients who attended a special clinic in south India. Somatisation and conversion disorders accounted for the majority of patients, although several other psychiatric and medical disorders were also seen. Aspects of treatment of such patients in the sociocultural context are discussed.
Behavioral treatment of angina-like chest pain in patients with hyperventilation syndrome.	The hyperventilation syndrome is present in as many as 50% of patients with non-cardiac chest pain. This study evaluated a behavioral treatment of this disorder in three adult females. They had long histories of chest pain and were documented to be free of coronary artery disease. Each subject met the DSM-III-R diagnostic criteria for an anxiety disorder. Following treatment, all subjects showed a marked decrease in the frequency and intensity of chest pain episodes and in the frequency of shortness of breath episodes. Two subjects maintained their progress at one-year follow-up. The results lend support to the efficacy of controlled breathing and relaxation training for the treatment of hyperventilation-related chest pain and to the inclusion of a hyperventilation provocation test in the diagnosis of the syndrome as well as its role in changing cognitions regarding cardiac status. Also discussed is the rationale for treating hyperventilation related chest pain in a medical care setting.
Use of imagery to describe functional abdominal pain as an aid to diagnosis in a pediatric population.	Abdominal pain is a common presenting complaint among children and adolescents. Although psychological factors may be involved, their role is not clear and a diagnosis of functional pain is often made only after extensive investigations. Specific psychological characteristics have been associated with abdominal pain in children, but little is known about the nature of the pain itself. A retrospective study was undertaken to characterize the subjective experience and description of abdominal pain in patients hospitalized for investigation of abdominal pain. Thirty subjects with proven inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and 32 diagnosed as having functional abdominal pain (FAP) were studied. The age, sex distribution, and duration of the pain in these groups were similar. Seven (23%) patients with IBD used imagery to describe their pain in contrast to 25 (78%) of those with FAP (P less than 0.01). Neither age nor duration of pain was associated with the use of imagery. The use of imagery was significantly associated with the diagnosis of FAP (P less than 0.01). A more detailed characterization of the way patients describe abdominal pain might assist in diagnosing its etiology.
Neurasthenia and related problems.	Neurasthenia is a diagnostic entity included in ICD-9 which is used in daily clinical practice in China and the Soviet Union, as well as some other Asian countries, so far as I know. Although it was eliminated from the psychiatric nosology in DSM-III of the United States and in several European countries, this disease has not disappeared. In my view, elimination of the category only indicates change of diagnostic concept without definite direction. Whether this change will be accepted by psychiatrists all over the world is still a question. The continued use of this diagnostic term in China is justifiable, I believe. The final resolution of these differences in views and practice remains for future development in psychiatric science.
Mediators of clinical judgment: an exploration of the effect of therapists' locus of control on clinical expectations.	In this study, written case vignettes that manipulated locus of control symptoms, class, and sex of the clients were presented to 174 Australian clinical psychologists. Therapists' expectations of success with clients presented in the vignettes were found to be primarily a function of the interaction between the therapist's and the hypothetical client's locus of control. In addition, some variance was explained by the symptoms of clients in the vignettes. Clients with mild problems were generally rated more favorably than clients with severe problems.
Replicated item level factor structure of the MMPI: racial and sexual differences.	Item-level factor studies of the MMPI date back to the work of Comrey (1957). Surprisingly, there are no extant studies of the items that clinicians use most in the course of daily MMPI interpretive reporting, namely, the 399 x 399 matrix that represents all of the items that comprise the traditional clinical and validity scales. Furthermore, there are no prior studies with adequate Ns that have examined the replicability of MMPI factor structure via available factor comparison techniques (Harman, 1976). In this study, 20,000 MMPIs were factored by the principal components method, followed by Varimax rotations of 6 through 25 factors. The coefficient of congruence was used to compare the factor structures of randomly divided subsamples, as well as males vs. females and Blacks vs. Whites. Differences in factor structure were found, and suggestions are made with regard to the significance of these findings in clinical and applied settings.
Social competence and problem behavior of adolescent girls with learning disabilities.	Estimates of social competence and problem behavior were obtained using the Child Behavior Checklist (Achenbach & Edelbrock, 1983) for a sample of 51 adolescent girls with learning disabilities. Results identified poor social competence and elevated problem behaviors, in comparison to a normative group of nonhandicapped adolescents. Implications for both diagnosis and research are addressed.
Risk factors in the psychosocial work environment for neck and shoulder pain in secretaries.	The relationship between psychologic work variables and reported neck and shoulder pain was examined among secretaries. A battery of questionnaires concerning the experienced psychologic work environment as well as musculoskeletal pain symptoms was completed by 420 secretaries at a large medical center. A relatively "poor" psychologic work environment was compared with an environment that was experienced as "good." A "poorly" experienced psychologic work environment was related to a higher frequency of neck and shoulder pain. The relative risk for frequent neck pain was 2.85 (95% confidence interval 1.28 to 6.32) and for frequent shoulder pain 3.32 (95% confidence interval 1.53 to 7.23). Furthermore, the subindexes of work content and social support at work were found to be related to pain, whereas no clear relationship was found for work demands. The results of this study demonstrate the possible importance of the psychologic work environment in the development of musculoskeletal pain disorders. Future investigations should replicate these findings as well as isolate specific mechanisms so that preventive measures may be instituted.
An inpatient programme for persistent somatizers.	Somatization, defined as a transient or persistent tendency to experience and communicate psychological distress in the form of somatic symptoms and to seek medical help for them, represents a common problem in clinical practice. A comprehensive inpatient rehabilitation program for somatizing patients has been developed at the Clarke Institute in Toronto and is described in detail. It involves concurrent application of psychiatric, psychological, social, and medical therapies.
Identifying anxiety and depressive disorders among primary care patients: a pilot study.	One stage case-identification method, using the Arabic Version of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) was applied in a pilot study for estimating the prevalence of depressive and anxiety disorders among a group of Saudi primary care attenders. The validity of the Arabic Version of the HAD scale was previously tested and found valid with high sensitivity and specificity. The total prevalence rate of depression was 17% and that of anxiety was 16%. Seven percent of the sample suffered both depression and anxiety i.e. the total percentage of patients with depression, anxiety or both was 26%. Higher morbidity of depression was recorded among females and a higher morbidity of anxiety among male patients.
Sexual abuse: somatic and emotional reactions.	A chart review and telephone interview of 72 sexual abuse victims was conducted to determine if children and adolescents who are victims of sexual abuse suffer from symptoms similar to the "rape trauma syndrome," which has been reported in adults. Symptoms similar to the rape trauma syndrome were found in 48 of the 72 abused children and only 26 of the matched control group, p less than .01. Common somatic complaints in the sexual abuse patients included dysuria, vaginal discharge and chronic abdominal pain. Some of the emotional and behavioral problems noted during the follow-up period among the sexual abuse patients included sleep problems, runaway behavior, and suicide attempts. The duration of abuse and age of the victim at the time of abuse significantly affected the frequency of reported somatic symptoms, but the type of abuse and type of assailant did not significantly affect the frequency of reported somatic and emotional reactions. There was no difference in the occurrence of school problems and early pregnancy between sexually abused patients and controls. Since 67% of all sexually abused patients suffered from emotional and somatic reactions, close follow-up of these patients is indicated.
Mood and somatic symptoms.	The relations between subjective ratings of mood and somatic symptoms were examined in four studies. Correlational analysis revealed strong relations both between and within the different aspects of mood and somatic discomforts. It was also found that the more diffuse somatic discomforts showed the highest correlations with mood. A time-series analysis also revealed that the dominating explanatory factor was from current symptom reports to current mood reports and not vice versa.
Mass hysteria: two syndromes?	On the basis of a literature review it is concluded that mass hysteria can be divided into two syndromes. One form, to be called 'mass anxiety hysteria', consists of episodes of acute anxiety, occurring mainly in schoolchildren. Prior tension is absent and the rapid spread is by visual contact. Treatment consists of separating the participants and the prognosis is good. The second form, to be called 'mass motor hysteria', consists of abnormalities in motor behaviour. It occurs in any age group and prior tension is present. Initial cases can be identified and the spread is gradual. Treatment should be directed towards the underlying stressors but the outbreak may be prolonged. In mass anxiety hysteria the abnormality is confined to group interactions; in mass motor hysteria abnormal personalities and environments are implicated.
Sex biases in mental health scales: do women tend to report less serious symptoms and confide more than men?	Women report more symptoms than men in mental health surveys. The evidence shows that psychometric biases cannot explain this significant difference. This study attempts to explore other factors that could bias the results--for example, that women are likely to report less serious symptoms than men or are less apprehensive in reporting symptoms because they have a higher tendency to report symptoms than men. A random sample of 213 women and 222 men, all married and between the age of 25 and 40, were interviewed at home in two districts of Montreal (Canada) and given the Health Opinion Survey (HOS). As has been usually found, women scored higher than men on the HOS. A variety of scales assessed the seriousness of the symptoms and the results did not indicate any sex difference in this regard. Moreover, there was no correlation between the mental health and the Jourard Self-Confidence Scale. Finally, women did not confide more about their symptoms than men, contrary to the prevalent opinion according to which they are more likely to do so. Sex differences on mental health scales do not, therefore, appear to be related to the type of bias assessed in this survey.
Illness behaviour and general practice utilisation: a prospective study.	The Illness Behaviour Questionnaire (IBQ) was used to compare general practice patients who presented physical complaints in the absence of objective pathology, with those in whom the presence of pathology was established. Patients without pathology showed a greater conviction as to the presence of disease, and greater degrees of anxiety, depression and irritability. Males and females differed on their IBQ scores: males showing more disease conviction, somatic focusing and hypochondriasis. Utilisation of general practitioner services (as indicated by the number of visits in the six months subsequent to completing the IBQ) was associated with greater age, and for the group as a whole, utilisation was predicted by higher scores on the following IBQ scales: disease conviction, affective disturbance and disease affirmation. This was also the case for males, but in females only affective disturbance correlated with a greater number of visits. Four patterns were delineated in the relationship between age, illness behaviour variables, the presence or absence of objective pathology, and G.P. contacts.
Reflections on a theoretical psychopathology]	One of the central tasks of theoretical psychopathology is the treatment of the question of in which sense one can speak of illness in the field of psychic mistakenness. A dynamic, an ontological and a relational illness conception are depicted. Of necessity, the conception of the illness determines the comprehension of the talk of an illness symptom. By differentiating between homologous and analogous symptoms, justice is done to the fact that psychopathologic description is based, on the one hand, on the description of subjective suffering and, on the other hand, in the service of a psychiatrically relevant diagnosis.
The older analysand: countertransference issues in psychoanalysis.	The apparent reluctance among analysts to begin an analysis with a patient beyond his or her fifth decade, a view first articulated by Freud, is examined as an instance of counter-transference resistance. Although there is no greater consensus among analysts than the continuing necessity of self-analysis irrespective of age, it is an attitude which does not appear to be so readily extended to the older prospective analysand. This report examines counter-transference issues within the context of a seven year classical analysis of an older female who began an analysis at the end of her sixth decade. The case illustrates the timelessness of psychological conflicts at all levels and the particular character of the analyst's counter-transferences that surfaced listening to the material of this older analysand.
A two year follow-up of somatic complaints among Israeli combat stress reaction casualties.	The relationships of somatic complaints and health related habits to combat stress reaction and post-traumatic stress disorder were assessed one and two years after the 1982 Lebanon War. The sample consisted of 285 combat stress reaction Israeli casualties and 198 comparable controls. Results showed that higher rates of somatic complaints were reported by both combat stress reaction and post-traumatic stress disorder casualties at the two points in time. Theoretical and methodological implications were discussed.
Psychiatric disorder and poor school performance among welfare children in Ontario.	Parental welfare status was found to be a marker for identifying a group of children with an increased prevalence of psychiatric disorder and poor school performance. The marker was particularly strong for psychiatric disorder in young boys and for poor school performance in young girls. For instance, the prevalence rates of psychiatric disorder, in the 6 to 11 age group, for welfare and non-welfare boys, were 40.0% and 13.9%, respectively; and for poor school performance in welfare and non-welfare girls, 27.8% and 6.1%, respectively. The relationship between different measures of psychosocial disadvantage and these child deficits was examined. Multivariate analyses revealed, for example, that parental welfare status made an independent contribution to the prediction of psychiatric disorder and was a more powerful predictor of poor school performance in girls compared to boys. The implications of these and other results are discussed.
Styles of verbal expression of emotional and physical experiences: a study of depressed patients and normal controls in China.	Sixty depressed patients and 52 normal controls completed three selfreport inventories: the Symptom Checklist-90 (SCL-90), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and a new Verbal Style Investigation Schedule (VESIS) developed by the first author. The VESIS uses 16 key emotional and physical terms from Western inventories and identified the words and phrases most commonly used by Chinese patients to express these feeling states. Chinese subjects commonly used the key term itself for only 3 or the 16 key terms; they usually preferred to use other words or phrases to express the feeling state. We categorized these Chinese expressions into four styles of verbal expression: Psychological, Somatic, Neutral (i.e., a mixture of psychological and somatic) and Deficient (i.e., lack of expression because of denial or suppression). Three of the 12 key emotional terms of the VESIS (depressed, fearful, and anxiousness) were more commonly expressed in a somatic or neutral mode than the other key emotional terms. The key terms "suicidal interest" and "being punished" were more commonly expressed in a deficient style than other key emotional terms. The somatic factor score of the SCL-90 was not correlated with increased somatic expression of emotional states; thus patients who have multiple somatic complaints are not more likely to express emotions somatically. The hypothesis of somatization is discussed in light of this study.
Symptoms of schizophrenia in Hispanic and Anglo veterans.	This study explores cultural influences on symptoms and course of schizophrenic disorder. Hispanic veterans with schizophrenia are compared to a similar group of White non-Hispanic (Anglo) veterans. Symptoms were elicited with a structured diagnostic interview and a battery of rating instruments. Primary symptoms of schizophrenia (e.g., hallucinations, delusions, functional deterioration) were very similar for both groups. However, Hispanic patients reported a later age of onset, exhibited more somatization, and spent less time in the hospital than Anglo patients.
Daily versus major life events as predictors of symptom frequency: a replication study.	Predictions of physical symptomatology by daily life events and by major life events were compared, replicating and expanding work reported by DeLongis, Coyne, Dakof, Folkman, & Lazarus (1982). Analyses of daily, prospective data collected on 79 married men for 90 days demonstrated that daily, undesirable events were better predictors of symptom frequencies than either past, major life events or daily, desirable events. These results, similar to those found by DeLongis et al. (1982), were further explored by examining "healthy" subjects versus subjects with prior medical conditions. Undesirable daily events were a much stronger predictor of physical symptoms in the healthy group than in the prior medical conditions group.
Psychological and physical morbidity in the aftermath of a cyclone.	A Fijian community affected by a cyclone was compared with an unaffected but similar community. Two months after the cyclone both psychological and physical morbidity was 2-3 times greater in the affected community than in controls. By the third month morbidity had resolved to levels similar to those in the unaffected population. Brief, catastrophic stress without loss of life appears to provoke psychological and physical morbidity of relatively brief duration.
Relationship of trait anger to resting blood pressure: a meta-analysis.	A series of meta-analyses were conducted to assess whether anger is related to essential hypertension. The present review also considered the relevance of the distinction between anger experience and anger expression, the effect of participant selection bias, and the white-coat hypertension effect for the anger-blood pressure (BP) association. Anger experience was correlated with elevated BP, but the relationship was small and highly variable. When positive effects emerged, both participant selection and the reliability of BP measurement posed interpretational problems. Persons high in anger are not merely exhibiting elevated BP in response to testing, so a white-coat effect is not evident. Being labeled as hypertensive may contribute to higher anger scores, however. The review suggests lines of future research concerning associations between trait anger and blood pressure.
Functional somatic complaints in the emergency service and 4 year outcome]	The article presents the clinical profile of 72 somatizations taking in charge by a psychiatric team in a emergency room. They represent mood disorders (37.5%), psychotic disorders (11%) and anxiety disorders (20%). The psychiatric antecedents are very poor. Their outcome after 4 years is good on the health sickness rating scale of Luborsky in 35% and very bad in 25%, particularly for symptomatic score. After their taking in charge in the emergency room, these patients go not much in psychiatric hospitals and in psychiatric consultations. This observation gives to this first intervention in the emergency room a very important rule.
Symbolic meanings of the body in Chinese culture and "somatization".	It is proposed in this paper that the term "somatization" as applied to the Chinese requires further exploration. By way of a study of Chinese language usage employing body-related expressions, an indirect method of finding the "equivalence in meaning" is demonstrated. Results of the study reveal the scope and depth of the symbolic meanings of the body in Chinese culture.
Reproductive health, use of estrogen and experience of symptoms in perimenopausal women: a population-based study.	The aim of the study was to examine reproductive health, use of estrogen, lifestyle, experience of menopausal symptoms and work-role related issues in a population-based sample of perimenopausal women.
Menopause and perceived health status among the women of the French GAZEL cohort.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of menopause on women's quality of life. Women (1171) aged from 45-52 years who work for the French national gas and electricity company volunteered for this study (response rate 75%). They completed a self-administered questionnaire pertaining to general health. Quality of life was measured by the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP). Within this group 289 women were postmenopausal. After controlling for age, those women were more likely to show a lower quality of life than women still menstruating for 4 of the 6 sections of the NHP: social isolation (odds ratio 1.4; 95% confidence interval 1.1-1.9), pain, sleep and energy (odds ratios 1.5; 95% confidence intervals 1.1-2.0). Those alterations of quality of life are explained by the climacteric complaints the women report. Those findings suggest that the treatment of menopausal symptoms with medication of proven efficacy may prevent lowering of quality of life due to menopause.
Do psycho-social factors contribute more to symptom reporting by middle-aged women than hormonal status?	Six hundred women aged between 45 and 54 were randomly selected from the electoral roll in Brisbane, Australia. A questionnaire addressing their symptoms, hormone status and psycho-social factors was successfully administered to 381 women (64% of the original sample; 83% of those contactable). Although cardiovascular symptoms were experienced by 25% of the sample, the most common (hot flushes) ranked only tenth on a list of recently experienced symptoms. The association of hormone status with symptoms was weak in comparison with other factors. Most symptoms were reported by women who were perimenopausal, had undergone a hysterectomy, or were currently using hormone replacement therapy. A poor mental health index was strongly associated with all groups reporting symptoms. It is concluded that clinicians responding to symptoms from middle-aged women should continue to address psychosocial factors just as vigorously as those related to their hormone status.
Psychiatric consultations in medical outpatients with abdominal pain: patient and physician effects.	The purpose of the study was to assess the effect of a psychiatric consultation intervention in terms of changes in 1) the patients' psychological symptoms, and 2) satisfaction of general practitioners (GPs) concerning their cooperation with the internists.
Twelve years of experience with yoga in psychiatry.	The author describes his experience with the use of yoga in the prevention and treatment of alcohol and drug related problems, in psychosomatics, neuroses, geriatric psychiatry, and in some other areas. He deals with problems of the use of yoga in psychiatry like compliance, systems aspect, competitiveness and respecting specific indications in regard to health status and contraindications with personal differences. The usefulness of yoga in the prevention of stress and burn-out in health care professionals is emphasized.
Psychotherapeutic treatment of patients with functional voice disorders]	Psychic factors in the development and maintenance of functional voice disorders call for a psychotherapeutic treatment of dysphonic patients. The voice symptom is considered as a creative achievement of the patient to cope with an internal conflict using the ego function of speaking in the social context. A large number of dysphonic patients require an orientation of psychotherapy towards their symptoms. Symptom-centered short-term psychotherapy on a psychoanalytic basis concentrates on a symptom focus which, being a generalized description of cognitive, affective and behavioural elements of speech-conflict situations, structures the psychotherapeutic work with the material of the manifestations of voice complaints in the psychosocial context. Working out the psychodynamic conflict constellation underlying the voice symptomatics enables the patients to develop alternatives of coping with the internal affective conflict and of arranging interaction patterns with emotionally significant persons.
Dealing with pain-related disabilities: non-organic components of pain.	This article briefly introduces and reviews the "non-organic" components of pain-related disability situations, discusses the effect of the complexity of the problem on physician attitudes and behaviors, provides a description of the non-organic influences and their assessment, and makes suggestions for appropriate goals for intervening in pain-related disability conditions.
Contribution of symptoms and beliefs to handicap in people with vertigo: a longitudinal study.	The purpose of the present study of people with recurrent vertigo (dizziness/dysequilibrium) was (a) to determine whether negative perceptions of symptoms contribute to handicap, and (b) to examine the physical and psychological factors predicting handicap over a seven-month period. Questionnaires assessing symptoms, anxiety and depression, handicap, and beliefs about the potential consequences of vertigo attacks were completed by 101 patients suffering from vestibular disorders. Three clusters of beliefs were identified: concern about loss of control, fear of serious illness, and anticipation of a severe attack. Fear of losing control and reported autonomic symptoms were significantly related to raw and residualized handicap scores, after controlling for somatization, vertigo severity, anxiety and depression. Initial levels of somatization predicted residualized handicap and emotional distress, while handicap levels predicted future emotional distress and vertigo. Negative perceptions of symptoms may contribute to an escalating cycle of vertigo, anxiety and restriction of activity.
When war comes to men's lives: life-course patterns in family, work, and health.	Men generally come to military service at a time of youth. However, the Second World War expanded the period of service eligibility from age 18 to the late 30s. Each year of delay in entry promised a smaller return from military service (economic and job benefits) and a greater risk of life disruption and related costs. Using longitudinal data from the Stanford-Terman sample, the authors examine whether social disruptions resulting from late service entry increased the risk of adverse change in adult health. Apart from preservice factors, the authors found that the late-mobilized men were at greatest risk of negative trajectories on physical health. Work-life disadvantages account in part for this health effect. Pathways that link stress and physical decline are discussed in relation to social disruption.
Manifestations of somatization in Nigerian patients--diagnostic attempts and therapeutic approaches]	Within the last decades transcultural psychiatry has been more and more concerned with culture-depending illness. A tendency to somatization and symbolism proofed to be of importance. In this study from Nigeria specific patterns of black Africa are presented. Special complaints such as the followings are part of different psychiatric disturbances: "heat in the body and in the head; crawling, heavy and biting sensations". In this paper the communicative aspects of these complaints are emphasized. The more difficult verbal communication is, especially among immigrants, the more important regression to body language becomes. It is not rare that these symptoms are part of the defense system. The content of the complaints must also be understood in the context of the specific educational rules of Nigeria where longstanding skin contact in mothering increases the cathexes of the body.
The impact of a meditation-based stress reduction program on fibromyalgia.	Fibromyalgia is a chronic illness characterized by widespread pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, and resistance to treatment. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a meditation-based stress reduction program on fibromyalgia. Seventy-seven patients meeting the 1990 criteria of the American College of Rheumatology for fibromyalgia took part in a 10-week group outpatient program. Therapists followed a carefully defined treatment approach and met weekly to further promote uniformity. Patients were evaluated before and after the program. Initial evaluation included a psychiatric structured clinical interview (SCID). Outcome measures included visual analog scales to measure global well-being, pain, sleep, fatigue, and feeling refreshed in the morning. Patients also completed a medical symptom checklist, SCL-90-R, Coping Strategies Questionnaire, Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire, and the Fibromyalgia Attitude Index. Although the mean scores of all the patients completing the program showed improvement, 51% showed moderate to marked improvement and only they were counted as "responders." These preliminary findings suggest that a meditation-based stress reduction program is effective for patients with fibromyalgia.
Is there a relationship between reflex sympathetic dystrophy and helplessness? Case reports and a hypothesis.	Five case reports that illustrate the possible contribution of psychological factors in the etiopathogenesis of reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) are presented. All five patients at the time of physical trauma were confronted with a significant loss that either accidentally coincided with the trauma, or was related to the experience of the trauma itself. The patients' reaction to the loss was invariably characterized by helplessness. A biopsychosocial hypothesis which considers the possible role of psychophysiological and behavioral aspects of helplessness in the precipitation, maintenance, and/or enhancement of RSD is outlined.
Factors associated with pain complaints in a clinical sample of postmenopausal women.	The aims of this study were to evaluate the relationships occurring between pain complaints and postmenopausal status, and to look at the correlation between such complaints and other symptoms commonly related to the climacterium. A clinical sample of 99 consecutive postmenopausal patients requiring medical help were studied: 36 complained of muscle-skeletal pains whereas 33 presented with headache limiting daily activity. Climacteric syndrome, level of distress, coping style and bone mineral density were assessed with appropriate questionnaires and instruments. Neither bone mineral density, nor body mass index nor time since menopause were associated with either headaches or muscle-skeletal pains. According to the logistic regression being younger, being without a job, suffering from insomnia and having a lower ability in self-support by the means of comforting ideas predicts suffering from headache. A high level of distress and an avoidance behavior to problem facing predict the presence of pain complaints. In such cases the ineffectiveness of the coping mechanism (i.e. avoid the problem) could be the reason for the increased level of psychological distress. These findings indicate that complaining of pains or headache is not dependent upon postmenopausal status. Individual coping strategies and their effectiveness seem the main reasons for the presence of disabling musculoskeletal pains or headache.
The relationship between complaint-related cognitions in referred patients with irritable bowel syndrome and subsequent health care seeking behaviour in primary care.	It is generally accepted that it is important to explore patients' beliefs and fears about the meaning of their symptoms during medical consultations.
Missing the meaning and provoking resistance; a case of myalgic encephalomyelitis.	The interaction between a clinician and a patient who put his problems down to myalgic encephalomyelitis is described. Despite attempting a patient-centred approach, the doctor acted on his own understanding of the meaning of this diagnosis without gaining proper insight into what it meant for the patient. This failure not only led to damaged rapport, it may have contributed to delayed recovery.
Individual therapy goals: on outcome documentation of inpatient psychotherapy from the patient and therapist viewpoint]	The results of a study evaluation in practicability of two newly developed documentation forms are presented. Examined are 82 inpatient treatment episodes in an already published clinical concept with different treatment settings. Parallel versions of the forms were completed by patients and therapists. The 'Erge-Doku-A-Form' allows for the naming of up to five therapy goals determined at the beginning of therapy and evaluated in relation to their achieved quality at the end of therapy. The 'Erge-Doku-B-Form' describes a variety of problem areas as well as questions related to medication and changes induced by therapy. Surprising there were a high number of 230 Individual Therapy Goals (ITG) by patients and 262 ITG by therapists which could be arranged into 89 content categories and 5 main categories. Outcome measurement shows different results. There was a significant relationship between the 'well-being', the impression of 'satisfying treatment' at the end of the inpatient period and 'success in the main ITG'. The documentation forms presented here allow an outcome-measurement depending on differential indications.
The acute effects of exercise on mood state.	This paper documents the recent (1976-1995) literature on the acute mood effects associated with participation in single sessions of exercise. Issues regarding experimental design, "ecological validity' and the operational definition of mood are addressed. Results from these studies suggest that both clinical and nonclinical subjects may benefit acutely from even a single bout of exercise. Finally, possible mechanisms and recommendations for future research are discussed.
Depression and social functioning in general hospital in-patients.	Impairment of social functioning is often associated with depression and contributes to an unfavorable course of the disease. Although it must be suspected that both social maladaptation and depression could obstruct recovery from somatic diseases, little attention has been paid to their interaction in general hospital patients. To assess social integration in depressive and psychiatrically healthy general hospital in-patients, 250 patients were studied with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI), a structured clinical interview, and the Social Interview Schedule (SIS). From clinical interviews, it was established that 16.4% of the patients suffered from depressive disorders (ICD-10). When these patients were compared with patients without psychiatric disorder, only a tendency to social dysfunctioning with regard to social management and satisfaction with social situations was observed. But when the depressive sample was divided into three diagnostic groups (depressive episode, dysthymia, depressive adjustment disorder), significant social impairments were found in the dysthymia subsample. Family and other interpersonal problems were most prominent. When depression preceded somatic illness, a higher level of impairment was observed. The majority of dysthymia patients suffered from long-term somatic diseases, often cancer, which were preceded by depression. The results of this study single out a small group of patients who seem to be at an extensive risk of chronic psychiatric and somatic illnesses and should therefore be a focus of consultation/liaison (C/L) interventions.
A psychological perspective of irritable bowel syndrome.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common and often intractable disorder. Although the causes of this syndrome are not clear, psychological factors do play a major role in determining whether a patient seeks medical care. Patients who have IBS tend to suffer from a psychiatric disorder, most notably anxiety and depression. Traditional medical care with its emphasis on pharmacological interventions and dietary changes has not been effective. Psychotherapy has been shown to be an important, yet underutilized, approach in the treatment of IBS. A clinical example of a young man suffering from IBS illustrates how traditional medical care and psychotherapy enhance the treatment of this disorder.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy for paruresis: a case report.	This article reviews directive interventions for paruresis, the inability to urinate in the proximity of others. As in treatments for other anxiety disorders, historical interventions have included the use of paradoxical intention and several different forms of exposure. The results of pharmacological treatment have not proven promising. Although a multidimensional treatment model has been recommended, little attention has been paid to treating cognitive components of the problem. In this paper, a single case is described in which cognitive components of the problem of paruresis were evident. A cognitive approach and exposure in vivo were applied. Measures of successful trials were obtained over 18 weeks. The combination of cognitive interventions and gradual exposure was effective in reducing paruresis. At follow-up 6 mo. later results had been maintained. The results of this case suggest more attention to the cognitive components is appropriate in the treatment of paruresis, as was stated previously for other specific social phobias.
Alexithymia and somatic amplification in chronic pain.	A controlled study was undertaken to assess alexithymia and somatic amplification among 50 medical outpatients with chronic pain referred for psychiatric consultation. Data were collected on demographics; DSM-IV diagnoses; and measures of anxiety, depression, and alexithymia, assessed with the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), as well as somatic amplification, assessed with the Somatosensory Amplification Scale (SAS). Data analysis revealed low scores on the TAS-20 and SAS for the pain patients, compared with a control group without pain. In this sample, depression and anxiety were the primary determinants of alexithymia and somatic amplification, rather than pain. These findings suggest that psychological markers for chronic pain may be different from those for other somatoform disorders.
Dysmorphophobia: a distorted perception of one's self-appearance.	Patients with dysmorphophobia are preoccupied with an imagined or grossly exaggerated defect of appearance. These patients may seek cosmetic surgical procedures to alter their perceived abnormal appearance. Treatment of patients with dysmorphophobia has not been previously addressed in the ophthalmologic literature. The authors present three case reports and discuss the syndrome of dysmorphophobia.
Absence of social networks, social support and health services utilization.	This study examines the effects of distress and three types of social relationships (family, friends, and confidantes) on the use of out-patient health services in an adult sample from a community survey of 3481 persons in Baltimore, Maryland.
Symptoms of depression among community-dwelling elderly African-American and white older adults.	Few studies have explored the variance in individual symptoms by race in older adults.
Avoidance personal goals and the personality-illness relationship.	Three studies demonstrated that avoidance personal goals are positively related to physical symptom reports. These results were obtained (a) using both longitudinal and retrospective methodologies and (b) controlling for neuroticism and other alternative predictor variables. In 2 of the studies, a process model was validated in which perceived competence and perceived controlledness were shown to mediate the observed relationship between avoidance goals and symptomatology. Specifically, avoidance goals predicted perceived competence and perceived controlledness, and these variables in turn predicted longitudinal and retrospective symptom reports. Ancillary results help clarify the unique roles of neuroticism and avoidance goals as predictors of physical symptomatology.
