Adaptive stress response in segmental progeria resembles long-lived dwarfism and calorie restriction in mice.	How congenital defects causing genome instability can result in the pleiotropic symptoms reminiscent of aging but in a segmental and accelerated fashion remains largely unknown. Most segmental progerias are associated with accelerated fibroblast senescence, suggesting that cellular senescence is a likely contributing mechanism. Contrary to expectations, neither accelerated senescence nor acute oxidative stress hypersensitivity was detected in primary fibroblast or erythroblast cultures from multiple progeroid mouse models for defects in the nucleotide excision DNA repair pathway, which share premature aging features including postnatal growth retardation, cerebellar ataxia, and death before weaning. Instead, we report a prominent phenotypic overlap with long-lived dwarfism and calorie restriction during postnatal development (2 wk of age), including reduced size, reduced body temperature, hypoglycemia, and perturbation of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor 1 neuroendocrine axis. These symptoms were also present at 2 wk of age in a novel progeroid nucleotide excision repair-deficient mouse model (XPD(G602D/R722W)/XPA(-/-)) that survived weaning with high penetrance. However, despite persistent cachectic dwarfism, blood glucose and serum insulin-like growth factor 1 levels returned to normal by 10 wk, with hypoglycemia reappearing near premature death at 5 mo of age. These data strongly suggest changes in energy metabolism as part of an adaptive response during the stressful period of postnatal growth. Interestingly, a similar perturbation of the postnatal growth axis was not detected in another progeroid mouse model, the double-strand DNA break repair deficient Ku80(-/-) mouse. Specific (but not all) types of genome instability may thus engage a conserved response to stress that evolved to cope with environmental pressures such as food shortage.
The dependence receptor Ret induces apoptosis in somatotrophs through a Pit-1/p53 pathway, preventing tumor growth.	Somatotrophs are the only pituitary cells that express Ret, GFRalpha1 and GDNF. This study investigated the effects of Ret in a somatotroph cell line, in primary pituitary cultures and in Ret KO mice. Ret regulates somatotroph numbers by inducing Pit-1 overexpression, leading to increased p53 expression and apoptosis, both of which can be prevented with Ret or Pit-1 siRNA. The Pit-1 overexpression is mediated by sustained activation of PKCdelta, JNK, c/EBPalpha and CREB induced by a complex of Ret, caspase 3 and PKCdelta. In the presence of GDNF, Akt is activated, and the Pit-1 overexpression and resulting apoptosis are blocked. The adenopituitary of Ret KO mice is larger than normal, showing Pit-1 and somatotroph hyperplasia. In normal animals, activation of the Ret/Pit-1/p53 pathway by retroviral introduction of Ret blocked tumor growth in vivo. Thus, somatotrophs have an intrinsic mechanism for controlling Pit-1/GH production through an apoptotic/survival pathway. Ret might be of value for treatment of pituitary adenomas.
Modulation of the tyrosine kinase receptor Ret/glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) signaling: a new player in reproduction induced anterior pituitary plasticity?	During gestation, parturition, and lactation, the endocrine axis of the dam must continually adapt to ensure the continual and healthy development of offspring. The anterior pituitary gland, which serves as the endocrine interface between the brain and periphery, undergoes adaptations that contribute to regulation of the reproductive axis. Growth factors and their receptors are potential candidates for intrapituitary and paracrine factors to participate in the functional and anatomical plasticity of the gland. We examined the involvement of the growth factor glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and its receptor tyrosine kinase rearranged during transfection (Ret) in the physiological functional and anatomical plasticity of the anterior pituitary gland. We found that variations in both expression and subcellular localization of Ret during gestation and lactation are temporally correlated with changes in pituitary gland function. We showed that Ret/GDNF signaling could endorse two different functional roles depending on the physiological status. At the end of lactation and after weaning, Ret was colocalized with markers of apoptosis. We found that Ret could therefore act as a physiological dependence receptor capable of inducing apoptosis in the absence of GDNF. In addition, we identified the follicullostellate cell as a probable source for intrapituitary GDNF and proposed GDNF as a potential physiological modulator of endocrine cell function. During all stages studied, we showed that acute application of GDNF to pituitary slices was able to modulate both positively and negatively intracellular calcium activity. Altogether our results implicate Ret/GDNF as a potent pleiotropic factor able to influence pituitary physiology during a period of high plasticity.
Metabolic impact of adult-onset, isolated, growth hormone deficiency (AOiGHD) due to destruction of pituitary somatotropes.	Growth hormone (GH) inhibits fat accumulation and promotes protein accretion, therefore the fall in GH observed with weight gain and normal aging may contribute to metabolic dysfunction. To directly test this hypothesis a novel mouse model of adult onset-isolated GH deficiency (AOiGHD) was generated by cross breeding rat GH promoter-driven Cre recombinase mice (Cre) with inducible diphtheria toxin receptor mice (iDTR) and treating adult Cre(+/-),iDTR(+/-) offspring with DT to selectively destroy the somatotrope population of the anterior pituitary gland, leading to a reduction in circulating GH and IGF-I levels. DT-treated Cre(-/-),iDTR(+/-) mice were used as GH-intact controls. AOiGHD improved whole body insulin sensitivity in both low-fat and high-fat fed mice. Consistent with improved insulin sensitivity, indirect calorimetry revealed AOiGHD mice preferentially utilized carbohydrates for energy metabolism, as compared to GH-intact controls. In high-fat, but not low-fat fed AOiGHD mice, fat mass increased, hepatic lipids decreased and glucose clearance and insulin output were impaired. These results suggest the age-related decline in GH helps to preserve systemic insulin sensitivity, and in the context of moderate caloric intake, prevents the deterioration in metabolic function. However, in the context of excess caloric intake, low GH leads to impaired insulin output, and thereby could contribute to the development of diabetes.
The role of the hGH locus control region in somatotrope restriction of hGH-N gene expression.	Expression of mammalian GH is normally restricted to somatotropes and somatolactotropes (somatotrope lineages) in the anterior pituitary. The basis for this restriction remains incompletely understood. Recent studies indicate that deoxyribonuclease I hypersensitive site I (HSI) of the hGH locus control region, located at -14.5 kb relative to the hGH-N promoter, acts as a potent long-range enhancer of hGH-N transcription. Here we report that HSI is also critical to somatotrope-restriction of hGH-N expression. Loss of HSI activity, either by direct inactivation of HSI or by interference with HSI-dependent downstream events, results in a relaxation of hGH-N cell-type specification with expansion of hGH-N expression to the full spectrum of Pit-1 positive pituitary cell types. These findings expand the defined roles for HSI of the hGH locus control region to include somatotrope lineage restriction as well as transcriptional enhancement of hGH-N gene expression.
Obestatin plays an opposite role in the regulation of pituitary somatotrope and corticotrope function in female primates and male/female mice.	Obestatin is a 23-amino-acid amidated peptide that is encoded by the ghrelin gene. Previous studies have shown obestatin can modulate the hypothalamic neuronal circuitry that regulates pituitary function, perhaps by modulating the actions of ghrelin. However, the direct actions of obestatin on pituitary function remain controversial. Here, primary pituitary cell cultures from a nonhuman primate (baboon) and mice were used to test the effects of obestatin on pituitary hormone expression and secretion. In pituitary cultures from both species, obestatin had no effect on prolactin, LH, FSH, or TSH expression/release. Conversely, obestatin stimulated proopiomelanocortin expression and ACTH release and inhibited GH expression/release in vitro, actions that were also observed in vivo in mice treated with obestatin. In vitro, obestatin inhibited the stimulatory actions of ghrelin on GH but not ACTH release. The inhibitory effect of obestatin on somatotrope function was associated with an overall reduction in pituitary transcription factor-1 and GHRH receptor mRNA levels in vitro and in vivo as well as a reduction in hypothalamic GHRH and ghrelin expression in vivo. The stimulatory effect of obestatin on ACTH was associated with an increase in pituitary CRF receptors. Obestatin also reduced the expression of pituitary somatostatin receptors (sst1/sst2), which could serve to modify its impact on hormone secretion. The in vitro actions of obestatin on both GH and ACTH release required the adenylyl cyclase and MAPK routes. Taken together, our results provide evidence that obestatin can act directly at the pituitary to control somatotrope and corticotrope function, and these effects are conserved across species. 
