Nonequilibrium diversity dynamics of the Lesser Antillean avifauna.	MacArthur and Wilson's model of island diversity predicts an increase in the number of species until colonization and extinction are balanced at a long-term steady state. We appraise this model on an evolutionary time scale by molecular phylogenetic analysis of the colonization of the Lesser Antilles by small land birds. The pattern of accumulation of species with time, estimated by genetic divergence between island and source lineages, rejects a homogeneous model of colonization and extinction. Rather, our results suggest an abrupt, roughly 10-fold increase in colonization rate or a 90% mass extinction event 0.55 to 0.75 million years ago.
Plumage colour in nestling blue tits: sexual dichromatism, condition dependence and genetic effects.	Sexual-selection theory assumes that there are costs associated with ornamental plumage coloration. While pigment-based ornaments have repeatedly been shown to be condition dependent, this has been more difficult to demonstrate for structural colours. We present evidence for condition dependence of both types of plumage colour in nestling blue tits (Parus caeruleus). Using reflectance spectrometry, we show that blue tit nestlings are sexually dichromatic, with males having more chromatic (more 'saturated') and ultraviolet (UV)-shifted tail coloration and more chromatic yellow breast coloration. The sexual dimorphism in nestling tail coloration is qualitatively similar to that of chick-feeding adults from the same population. By contrast, the breast plumage of adult birds is not sexually dichromatic in terms of chroma. In nestlings, the chroma of both tail and breast feathers is positively associated with condition (body mass on day 14). The UV/blue hue of the tail feathers is influenced by paternally inherited genes, as indicated by a maternal half-sibling comparison. We conclude that the expression of both carotenoid-based and structural coloration seems to be condition dependent in blue tit nestlings, and that there are additional genetic effects on the hue of the UV/blue tail feathers. The signalling or other functions of sexual dichromatism in nestlings remain obscure. Our study shows that nestling blue tits are suitable model organisms for the study of ontogenetic costs and heritability of both carotenoid-based and structural colour in birds.
Kin selection in cooperative alliances of carrion crows.	In most cooperative vertebrates, delayed natal dispersal is the mechanism that leads to the formation of kin societies. Under this condition, the possibility that kin-based cooperative breeding is an unselected consequence of dispersal patterns can never be ruled out because helpers can only help their relatives. Here we show that a population of carrion crows (Corvus corone corone) fully fits the central prediction of kin selection theory that cooperative breeding should arise among relatives. On their territory, resident breeders are aided not only by nonbreeding retained offspring but also by immigrants (mainly males), with whom they share matings. Philopatry cannot account, however, for the high degree of genetic relatedness found between breeders and immigrants of the same sex that cooperate at a nest, indicating that crows actively choose to breed cooperatively with their relatives.
Evolutionary genetics of the melanocortin-1 receptor in vertebrates.	The molecular genetic basis of adaptive change in phenotype is a major outstanding issue in evolutionary biology. Evolutionary change in coat and plumage color is a promising system for making progress in this field. Most notably, recent work on the molecular genetic basis of hair and feather color has identified several genes which are candidates for involvement in evolutionary color change in mammals and birds. We have investigated the evolution of one of these candidate genes, the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) gene, in relation to changes in melanin distribution among a wide variety of primate species, and in bananaquits (Coereba flaveola), which are a classic case of melanic plumage polymorphism in birds. In primates, a role of the MC1R coding region in coat color evolution can be ruled out in several cases in which closely related species have drastically different distributions of eumelanin and/or pheomelanin. However, reconstruction of MC1R sequences over primate evolution shows the presence of mutations at important functional sites in several lineages. Most notably, the lion tamarins (Leontopithecus) show a striking pattern of MC1R evolution, including deletions and several nonconservative amino acid changes. In the bananaquit, an E92K substitution in the MC1R is strongly associated with melanism, and this is likely to be the causative mutation. Reconstruction of the evolution of bananaquit MC1R alleles shows that melanism is a derived trait in this species. These results confirm the utility of a candidate gene approach to color evolution in vertebrates and open the way for extensive future research.
Diversity of Mhc class I and IIB genes in house sparrows (Passer domesticus).	In order to understand the expression and evolution of host resistance to pathogens, we need to examine the links between genetic variability at the major histocompatibility complex ( Mhc), phenotypic expression of the immune response and parasite resistance in natural populations. To do so, we characterized the Mhc class I and IIB genes of house sparrows with the goal of designing a PCR-based genotyping method for the Mhc genes using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The incredible success of house sparrows in colonizing habitats worldwide allows us to assess the importance of the variability of Mhc genes in the face of various pathogenic pressures. Isolation and sequencing of Mhc class I and IIB alleles revealed that house sparrows have fewer loci and fewer alleles than great reed warblers. In addition, the Mhc class I genes divided in two distinct lineages with different levels of polymorphism, possibly indicating different functional roles for each gene family. This organization is reminiscent of the chicken B complex and Rfp-Y system. The house sparrow Mhc hence appears to be intermediate between the great reed warbler and the chicken Mhc, both in terms of numbers of alleles and existence of within-class lineages. We specifically amplified one Mhc class I gene family and ran the PCR products on DGGE gels. The individuals screened displayed between one and ten DGGE bands, indicating that this method can be used in future studies to explore the ecological impacts of Mhc diversity.
Cooperative nest defence in red-winged blackbirds: reciprocal altruism, kinship or by-product mutualism?	Male red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) often cooperate with their neighbours in defending nests against predators. Some studies have suggested that this is an example of by-product mutualism, whereas others have suggested the possibility of reciprocal altruism. No study has addressed the possibility of kin-selected cooperation in nest defence in this species. Reciprocal altruism, kin selection and by-product mutualism are not mutually exclusive alternatives, but few studies of territorial neighbours have tested for multiple mechanisms simultaneously. We test for these three possibilities in a population of red-winged blackbirds. We used simulated defections to test for reciprocal altruism. We used analysis of microsatellite loci to test for kin selection between adult male neighbours. We also used microsatellite loci to test for by-product mutualism resulting from nest defence of offspring sired on neighbouring territories. We found that male red-winged blackbirds cooperate in nest defence primarily as a form of reciprocal altruism. Experimental males reduced their level of nest defence relative to controls following simulated defection by a neighbour. In contrast to some earlier studies, we found no evidence for by-product mutualism: males did not defend nests where they had sired extra-pair offspring. We also found no evidence for kin selection: males were no more cooperative with more closely related neighbours. Considered alongside the results from other studies, our study suggests that mechanisms stabilizing cooperation in red-winged blackbirds may vary among populations.
Rapid evolution of a sexually selected trait following population establishment in a novel habitat.	Colonization of novel environments creates new selection pressures. Sexually selected traits are affected by the physical and social environment and should be especially susceptible to change, but this has rarely been studied. In southern California, dark-eyed juncos, (Junco hyemalis) naturally breed in mixed-coniferous temperate forests, typically from 1500 m to 3000 m in elevation. In the early 1980s, a small population became established in a coastal habitat, the University of California, San Diego campus, which has a mild, Mediterranean climate. I show that a sexually and socially selected signaling trait--the amount of white in the tail--has declined by approximately 22% as compared to mountain juncos. I address three main factors that could explain the difference between mountain and coastal juncos: phenotypic plasticity, genetic drift, and selection. Results indicate that the first two can be ruled out as the sole cause of the plumage change, which implies that selection contributed to the genetic differentiation from the mountain population. The estimated rate of evolution is about 0.2 haldanes, comparable with rates of change in systems where individuals have been artificially introduced into new environments (e.g., guppies and Drosophila). This is the first study to demonstrate evolution of a sexually selected trait after only several generations resulting from a natural invasion into a novel environment.
Microsatellite variation in red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus).	Territorial male red-winged blackbirds from five locations in the United States and Canada were genotyped using a suite of six microsatellite loci. Each population possessed unique alleles, but numbers of alleles per locus (range = 7.3-8.8) and expected multilocus heterozygosities (range = 0.76-0.80) were similar in all populations. Significant overall allele frequency differences were detected between some population pairs, and some pairwise Fst values were significant (but small). However, Fst among populations, although significant, was also small (0.009). Despite revealing low levels of population structure, the high multilocus polymorphism indicates these loci will be valuable in the genetic analysis of behavior and reproductive strategies in this species.
Population structure of loggerhead shrikes in the California Channel Islands.	The loggerhead shrike (Lanius ludovicianus), a songbird that hunts like a small raptor, maintains breeding populations on seven of the eight California Channel Islands. One of the two subspecies, L. l. anthonyi, was described as having breeding populations on six of the islands while a second subspecies, L. l. mearnsi, was described as being endemic to San Clemente Island. Previous genetic studies have demonstrated that the San Clemente Island loggerhead shrike is well differentiated genetically from both L. l. anthonyi and mainland populations, despite the fact that birds from outside the population are regular visitors to the island. Those studies, however, did not include a comparison between San Clemente Island shrikes and the breeding population on Santa Catalina Island, the closest island to San Clemente. Here we use mitochondrial control region sequences and nuclear microsatellites to investigate the population structure of loggerhead shrikes in the Channel Islands. We confirm the genetic distinctiveness of the San Clemente Island loggerhead shrike and, using Bayesian clustering analysis, demonstrate the presence and infer the source of the nonbreeding visitors. Our results indicate that Channel Island loggerhead shrikes comprise three distinct genetic clusters that inhabit: (i) San Clemente Island, (ii) Santa Catalina Island and (iii) the Northern Channel Islands and nearby mainland; they do not support a recent suggestion that all Channel Island loggerhead shrikes should be managed as a single entity.
Natural selection of the major histocompatibility complex (Mhc) in Hawaiian honeycreepers (Drepanidinae).	The native Hawaiian honeycreepers represent a classic example of adaptive radiation and speciation, but currently face one the highest extinction rates in the world. Although multiple factors have likely influenced the fate of Hawaiian birds, the relatively recent introduction of avian malaria is thought to be a major factor limiting honeycreeper distribution and abundance. We have initiated genetic analyses of class II beta chain Mhc genes in four species of honeycreepers using methods that eliminate the possibility of sequencing mosaic variants formed by cloning heteroduplexed polymerase chain reaction products. Phylogenetic analyses group the honeycreeper Mhc sequences into two distinct clusters. Variation within one cluster is high, with dN > dS and levels of diversity similar to other studies of Mhc (B system) genes in birds. The second cluster is nearly invariant and includes sequences from honeycreepers (Fringillidae), a sparrow (Emberizidae) and a blackbird (Emberizidae). This highly conserved cluster appears reminiscent of the independently segregating Rfp-Y system of genes defined in chickens. The notion that balancing selection operates at the Mhc in the honeycreepers is supported by transpecies polymorphism and strikingly high dN/dS ratios at codons putatively involved in peptide interaction. Mitochondrial DNA control region sequences were invariant in the i'iwi, but were highly variable in the 'amakihi. By contrast, levels of variability of class II beta chain Mhc sequence codons that are hypothesized to be directly involved in peptide interactions appear comparable between i'iwi and 'amakihi. In the i'iwi, natural selection may have maintained variation within the Mhc, even in the face of what appears to a genetic bottleneck.
No evidence of an MHC-based female mating preference in great reed warblers.	Female mate-choice based on genetic compatibility is an area of growing interest. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes are likely candidates for such mate-choice since these highly polymorphic genes may both increase offspring viability and also provide direct cues for mate-choice. In great reed warblers, females actively choose a breeding partner out of a handful of males that they visit and evaluate; thus, female preference for compatible or heterozygous MHC genes could have evolved. Here, I investigate whether great reed warbler females preferentially mate with males with dissimilar MHC class I alleles or with males that are heterozygous at MHC class I. Despite favourable conditions, a thorough screening method and a large sample size, there was no evidence of an MHC-based female mating preference based on either genetic compatibility or heterozygosity in this population. Power analyses of the data sets revealed that relatively small differences (15% and 8%, respectively) between true and random pairs should have been detected.
Observation of a ZZW female in a natural population: implications for avian sex determination.	Avian sex determination is chromosomal; however, the underlying mechanisms are not yet understood. There is no conclusive evidence for either of two proposed mechanisms: a dominant genetic switch or a dosage mechanism. No dominant sex-determining gene on the female-specific W chromosome has been found. Birds lack inactivation of one of the Z chromosomes in males, but seem to compensate for a double dose of Z-linked genes by other mechanisms. Recent studies showing female-specific expression of two genes may support an active role of the W chromosome. To resolve the question of avian sex determination the investigation of birds with a 2A: ZZW or 2A: ZO genotype would be decisive. Here, we report the case of an apparent 2A: ZZW great reed warbler (Acrocephalus arundinaceus) female breeding in a natural population, which was detected using Z-linked microsatellites. Our data strongly suggest a role of W-linked genes in avian sex determination.
ESTIMA, a tool for EST management in a multi-project environment.	Single-pass, partial sequencing of complementary DNA (cDNA) libraries generates thousands of chromatograms that are processed into high quality expressed sequence tags (ESTs), and then assembled into contigs representative of putative genes. Usually, to be of value, ESTs and contigs must be associated with meaningful annotations, and made available to end-users.
Evolution driven by differential dispersal within a wild bird population.	Evolutionary theory predicts that local population divergence will depend on the balance between the diversifying effect of selection and the homogenizing effect of gene flow. However, spatial variation in the expression of genetic variation will also generate differential evolutionary responses. Furthermore, if dispersal is non-random it may actually reinforce, rather than counteract, evolutionary differentiation. Here we document the evolution of differences in body mass within a population of great tits, Parus major, inhabiting a single continuous woodland, over a 36-year period. We show that genetic variance for nestling body mass is spatially variable, that this generates different potential responses to selection, and that this diversifying effect is reinforced by non-random dispersal. Matching the patterns of variation, selection and evolution with population ecological data, we argue that the small-scale differentiation is driven by density-related differences in habitat quality affecting settlement decisions. Our data show that when gene flow is not homogeneous, evolutionary differentiation can be rapid and can occur over surprisingly small spatial scales. Our findings have important implications for questions of the scale of adaptation and speciation, and challenge the usual treatment of dispersal as a force opposing evolutionary differentiation.
Gene flow maintains a large genetic difference in clutch size at a small spatial scale.	Understanding the capacity of natural populations to adapt to their local environment is a central topic in evolutionary biology. Phenotypic differences between populations may have a genetic basis, but showing that they reflect different adaptive optima requires the quantification of both gene flow and selection. Good empirical data are rare. Using data on a spatially structured island population of great tits (Parus major), we show here that a persistent difference in mean clutch size between two subpopulations only a few kilometres apart has a major genetic component. We also show that immigrants from outside the island carry genes for large clutches. But gene flow into one subpopulation is low, as a result of a low immigration rate together with strong selection against immigrant genes. This has allowed for adaptation to the island environment and the maintenance of small clutches. In the other area, however, higher gene flow prevents local adaptation and maintains larger clutches. We show that the observed small-scale genetic difference in clutch size is not due to divergent selection on the island, but to different levels of gene flow from outside the island. Our findings illustrate the large effect of immigration on the evolution of local adaptations and on genetic population structure.
No evidence of current sexual selection on sexually dimorphic traits in a bird with high variance in mating success.	Sexual dimorphism, particularly in ornamental traits, is likely to have arisen by sexual selection. Most empirical and theoretical studies of sexual dimorphism assume that ongoing sexual selection also maintains the dimorphism. Over four seasons, I measured the sexual selection acting on three sexually dimorphic attributes (epaulet size, body size, and the blackness of the body plumage) of male red-winged blackbirds and found no consistent directional or stabilizing selection on any of them. Correlational selection was also negligible. I used path analysis to explore potential relationships in more detail but found no direct or indirect effects of male traits on either within- or extrapair success. Males who were resident on the marsh for more years had higher within-pair success, primarily because they spent more of the season on their territory. Experimental manipulations of epaulet size and color and the extent of nonblack feathers in the black body plumage had no detectable effect on the number of within-pair mates, paternity, or the number of extrapair offspring sired in nearby territories. These results combine with data from other studies of red-winged blackbirds to suggest that, despite high variation in male mating success and hence a strong opportunity for sexual selection, several morphological attributes that differ between the sexes and vary among males are not under current sexual selection. The possible explanations for why add complexity to our understanding of how sexual selection operates.
Maternal androgens in the pied flycatcher: timing of breeding and within-female consistency.	Maternal hormones can have substantial phenotypic effects in the progeny of many vertebrates. It has been proposed that mothers adaptively adjust hormone levels experienced by particular young to optimize their reproductive output. In birds, systematic variation in egg hormone levels has been related to different female reproductive strategies. Because in many bird species prospects of the offspring change seasonally and with brood number, strategic adjustment of yolk androgen levels would be expected. To test this idea, we induced pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) females to nest twice during the same season by removing their first clutches shortly after clutch completion. We collected eggs of first and replacement clutches to measure yolk concentrations of androstenedione (A4) and testosterone (T) and captured the females that laid these clutches for phenotypic measurements. Although average egg androgen levels were remarkably consistent within females, hormone patterns differed considerably between first and replacement clutches. Eggs of replacement clutches were heavier with larger yolks compared to first clutches, but they contained on average lower levels of androgens. Within clutches, androgen concentration increased over the laying sequence in the first clutch, but decreased or remained more constant over the laying sequence in the replacement clutch. Mean yolk T, but not A4 levels, were negatively associated with laying date for both breeding attempts. Moreover, females in good body condition produced eggs containing lower levels of androgens than females in poor condition. Our results are consistent with the idea that differences in yolk androgen levels may be one mechanism underlying seasonal variation in reproductive success and it is possible that changes in egg androgen patterns may reflect a change in female reproductive strategy. High within-female consistency also highlights the possibility that there may be some underlying genetic variation in yolk androgen levels.
Host intra-clutch variation, cuckoo egg matching and egg rejection by great reed warblers.	Prevailing theory predicts that lower levels of intra-clutch variation in host eggs facilitate the detection of brood parasitism. We assessed egg matching using both human vision and UV-VIS spectrophotometry and then followed the nest fate of great reed warblers naturally parasitised by European cuckoos. Rejection was predicted by the following three variables: matching between cuckoo and host eggs on the main chromatic variable defined by principal components analysis of the egg spectra (which has a strong loading in the UV); the number of host eggs in the nest; and human estimates of intra-clutch variation. The first variable is not correlated to human estimates of matching, which do not predict rejection. In line with another recent study, rejection rates were predicted by higher levels of intra-clutch variation in the host eggs, suggesting that higher rather than lower levels of intra-clutch variation can facilitate the discrimination of cuckoo eggs by hosts. We suggest that the importance of intra-clutch variation is context dependent, with intra-clutch variation being important when there is good matching between the host and the cuckoo eggs. Our results also suggest that both spectrometric and human visual assessments of egg matching and intra-clutch variation are prudent: the former provide the best method of estimating reflectance variation, whereas the latter include some assessment of patterns of maculation.
Characterization of the first growth hormone gene sequence for a passerine bird--the pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca).	While the growth hormone (GH) gene has been characterized in a broad range of vertebrates, surprisingly little is known about this gene in birds. In order to extend knowledge of the GH gene in avian species and non-domestic species, the pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca) GH gene has been sequenced in this study. The overall average pairwise sequence divergence level was 0.08 among all available avian sequences and 0.27 among other taxa. However, the overall genetic organization of the gene is quite conserved. The similarity of the GH gene sequence of pied flycatchers with those of chicken and duck suggests that the rapid bursts of molecular evolution observed in mammalian and fish GH have not occurred during the divergence of passerine and non-passerine birds.
From songs to synapses: molecular mechanisms of birdsong memory. Molecular mechanisms of auditory learning in songbirds involve immediate early genes, including zenk and arc, the ERK/MAPK pathway and synapsins.	There are remarkable behavioral, neural, and genetic similarities between the way songbirds learn to sing and human infants learn to speak. Furthermore, the brain regions involved in birdsong learning, perception, and production have been identified and characterized in detail. In particular, the caudal medial nidopallium (the avian analog of the mammalian auditory-association cortex) has been found to contain the neural substrate of auditory memory, paving the way for analyses of the underlying molecular mechanisms. Recently, the zebra finch genome was sequenced, and annotated cDNA databases representing over 15,000 unique brain-expressed genes are available, enabling high-throughput gene expression analyses. Here we review the involvement of immediate early genes (e.g. zenk and arc), their downstream targets (e.g. synapsins), and their regulatory signaling pathways (e.g. MAPK/ERK) in songbird memory. We propose that in-depth investigations of zenk- and ERK-dependent cascades will help to further unravel the molecular basis of auditory memory.
Genetic variation and seasonal migratory connectivity in Wilson's warblers (Wilsonia pusilla): species-level differences in nuclear DNA between western and eastern populations.	There is growing interest in understanding patterns of seasonal migratory connectivity between breeding and wintering sites, both because differences in migratory behaviour can be associated with population differentiation and because knowledge of migratory connectivity is essential for understanding the ecology, evolution and conservation of migratory species. We present the first broad survey of geographic variation in the nuclear genome of breeding and wintering Wilson's warblers (Wilsonia pusilla), which have previously served as a research system for the study of whether genetic markers and isotopes can reveal patterns of migratory connectivity. Using 153 samples surveyed at up to 257 variable amplified fragment length polymorphism markers, we show that Wilson's warblers consist of highly distinct western and eastern breeding groups, with all winter samples grouping with the western breeding group. Within the west, there is weak geographic differentiation, at a level insufficient for use in the assignment of wintering samples to specific areas. The distinctiveness of western and eastern genetic groups, with no known intermediates, strongly suggests that these two groups are cryptic species. Analysis of mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence variation shows that the estimated coalescence time between western and eastern clades is approximately 2.3 Ma, a surprisingly old time of divergence that is more typical of distinct species than of subspecies. Given their morphological similarity but strong genetic differences, western and eastern Wilson's warblers present a likely case of association between divergence in migratory behaviour and the process of speciation.
Inbreeding avoidance mechanisms: dispersal dynamics in cooperatively breeding southern pied babblers.	1. Breeding with kin can reduce individual fitness through the deleterious effects of inbreeding depression. Inbreeding avoidance mechanisms are expected to have developed in most species, and especially in cooperatively breeding species where individuals may delay dispersal until long after sexual maturity. Such potential mechanisms include sex-biased dispersal and avoidance of kin known through associative learning. 2. The investigation of inbreeding avoidance through dispersal dynamics can be enhanced by combining fine-scale population genetic structure data with detailed behavioural observations of wild populations. 3. We investigate possible inbreeding avoidance in a wild population of cooperatively breeding southern pied babblers (Turdoides bicolor). A combination of genetic, geographic and observational data is used to examine fine-scale genetic structure, dispersal (including sex-biased dispersal) and inheritance of dominance in cooperatively breeding groups. 4. Unusually, sex-bias in dispersal distance does not occur. Rather, individuals appear to avoid inbreeding through two routes. First, through dispersal itself: although both males and females disperse locally, they move outside the range within which genetically similar individuals are usually found, going twice as far from natal groups as from non-natal groups. Second, through avoidance of familiar group members as mates: individuals inherit a dominant position in the natal group only when an unrelated breeding partner is present. 5. This study uses spatial genetic analyses to investigate inbreeding avoidance mechanisms in a cooperative breeder and shows that individuals of both sexes can avoid inbreeding through a dispersal distance mechanism. While it appears that dispersal allows most individuals to move beyond the range of closely related kin, matings may still occur between distant kin. Nevertheless, any costs of breeding with a distant relative may be outweighed by the benefits of local dispersal and the immense fitness gains available from attaining a breeding position.
Phylogeography of a habitat specialist with high dispersal capability: the Savi's Warbler Locustella luscinioides.	In order to describe the influence of Pleistocene glaciations on the genetic structure and demography of a highly mobile, but specialized, passerine, the Savi's Warbler (Locustella luscinioides), mitochondrial DNA sequences (ND2) and microsatellites were analysed in c.330 individuals of 17 breeding and two wintering populations. Phylogenetic, population genetics and coalescent methods were used to describe the genetic structure, determine the timing of the major splits and model the demography of populations. Savi's Warblers split from its sister species c.8 million years ago and have two major haplotype groups that diverged in the early/middle Pleistocene. One of these clades originated in the Balkans and is currently widespread, showing strong evidence for population expansion; whereas the other is restricted to Iberia and remained stable. Microsatellites agreed with a genetic break around the Pyrenees, but showed considerable introgression and a weaker genetic structure. Both genetic markers showed an isolation-by-distance pattern associated with the population expansion of the eastern clade. Breeding populations seem to be segregated at the wintering sites, but results on migratory connectivity are preliminary. Savi's Warbler is the only known migratory bird species in which Iberian birds did not expand beyond the Pyrenees after the last glaciation. Despite the long period of independent evolution of western and eastern populations, complete introgression occurred when these groups met in Iberia. Mitochondrial sequences indicated the existence of refugia-within-refugia in the Iberian Peninsula during the last glacial period, which is surprising given the high dispersal capacity of this species. Plumage differences of eastern subspecies seemed to have evolved recently through natural selection, in agreement with the glacial expansion hypothesis. This study supports the great importance of the Iberian Peninsula and its role for the conservation of genetic variation.
Rapid characterization of mitochondrial genome rearrangements in Australian songbirds using next-generation sequencing technology.	Using next-generation sequencing technology, we describe the complete mitochondrial genomes for 5 Australian passerine birds (Epthianura albifrons, Petroica phoenicea, Petroica goodenovii, Petroica boodang, and Eopsaltria australis). We successfully assemble each mitogenome de novo using just 1/8th of a Roche GL FSX 454 pyrosequencing plate. From the assembled mitogenomes, we identify 2 different mitochondrial gene arrangements in the region spanning 5'-3' from Cytochrome B to 12s RNA. These gene arrangements represent 2 of the 4 known avian mitochondrial gene arrangements. Our results, together with other previously described avian mitogenomes, highlight that certain mitochondrial rearrangements appear to have arisen multiple times.
Unravelling migratory connections: the next level.	Migration is widespread among birds, and the strength of the link between the breeding and wintering grounds, migratory connectivity, influences many ecological and evolutionary processes. Despite its importance, migratory connectivity is poorly estimated for most species. Traditionally, visual observations and bird ringing have been used to monitor migration, but these methods require more effort for relatively little return. Genetic markers and stable isotope signatures have increasingly been used to study connectivity. Each approach has its distinct strengths and weaknesses, and as is often the case, a combination may yield the most insight. In this issue of Molecular Ecology, Rundel and colleagues (2013) present a novel Bayesian statistical framework in which genetics and stable isotope data can be combined to improve the assignment of individuals to different winter or breeding regions. The development of such new statistical methods combined with the increasing number and ease of access of isotopic and genetic data sets will greatly enhance our understanding of migratory connectivity. Add to this the developments of miniature devices to track movements of individuals, and the field is destined to make major progression in the decades to come. 
Climate-mediated movement of an avian hybrid zone.	The interaction between sibling species that share a zone of contact is a multifaceted relationship affected by climate change [1, 2]. Between sibling species, interactions may occur at whole-organism (direct or indirect competition) or genomic (hybridization and introgression) levels [3-5]. Tracking hybrid zone movements can provide insights about influences of environmental change on species interactions [1]. Here, we explore the extent and mechanism of movement of the contact zone between black-capped chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) and Carolina chickadees (Poecile carolinensis) at whole-organism and genomic levels. We find strong evidence that winter temperatures limit the northern extent of P. carolinensis by demonstrating a current-day association between the range limit of this species and minimum winter temperatures. We further show that this temperature limitation has been consistent over time because we are able to accurately hindcast the previous northern range limit under earlier climate conditions. Using genomic data, we confirm northward movement of this contact zone over the past decade and highlight temporally consistent differential-but limited-geographic introgression of alleles. Our results provide an informative example of the influence of climate change on a contact zone between sibling species. 
The impact of translocations on neutral and functional genetic diversity within and among populations of the Seychelles warbler.	Translocations are an increasingly common tool in conservation. The maintenance of genetic diversity through translocation is critical for both the short- and long-term persistence of populations and species. However, the relative spatio-temporal impacts of translocations on neutral and functional genetic diversity, and how this affects genetic structure among the conserved populations overall, have received little investigation. We compared the impact of translocating different numbers of founders on both microsatellite and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I diversity over a 23-year period in the Seychelles warbler (Acrocephalus sechellensis). We found low and stable microsatellite and MHC diversity in the source population and evidence for only a limited loss of either type of diversity in the four new populations. However, we found evidence of significant, but low to moderate, genetic differentiation between populations, with those populations established with fewer founders clustering separately. Stochastic genetic capture (as opposed to subsequent drift) was the main determinant of translocated population diversity. Furthermore, a strong correlation between microsatellite and MHC differentiation suggested that neutral processes outweighed selection in shaping MHC diversity in the new populations. These data provide important insights into how to optimize the use of translocation as a conservation tool. 
