Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157 in feedlot cattle and Norwegian rats from a large-scale farm.	A total of 365 faecal samples from different categories of cattle, 12 samples of untreated slurry, 50 samples of fresh droppings of feral domestic pigeons, 20 samples of fresh droppings of domestic sparrows and stool samples of 19 synanthropic rodents were examined for the presence of Escherichia coli by broth enrichment culture and a subsequent immunomagnetic separation. Escherichia coli O157 was found in 72 (20%) bovine samples, six (50%) samples of untreated slurry and four (40%) of 10 rats (Rattus norvegicus). Significant differences were found in the E. coli O157 shedding frequency between different age categories of bulls. Genes stx2 and eaeA were detected in all isolates, and the stx1 gene in all but 10 isolates.
First report on Cryptococcus laurentii associated with feather loss in a glossy starling (Lamprotornis chalybaeus).	Although Cryptococcus laurentii has been isolated from fresh droppings and cloaca samples from feral pigeons, it has never before been associated with an actual disease condition in birds. This case study deals with the first report on C. laurentii associated with feather loss in a glossy starling (Lamprotornis chalybaeus). The bird exhibited patchy feather loss, especially around the back and beak area, and greyish crusts sticking quite firmly to the underlying skin. The feathers had a greasy appearance and disseminated a musty odour. Treatment was installed with fluconazole in the drinking water. One month following the onset of treatment, the condition of the plumage had markedly improved.
Health survey of house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) from Wisconsin.	We conducted a health survey of house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) without evidence of Mycoplasma gallisepticum infection in order to establish baseline population health measures and estimate prevalence of potential pathogens likely to influence host susceptibility to mycoplasmosis. Seasonal changes in several physiologic parameters were observed. Weights were greater in winter compared with the breeding season (P < 0.01), fat scores were greater in winter than during fall migration (P < 0.01) or the breeding season (P < 0.01), and packed cell volume and total plasma protein measures during fall migration (P < 0.05) and winter (P < 0.01) were greater than during the breeding season. Culture of voided fecal material yielded 13 bacterial isolates likely representative of normal gastrointestinal flora. Avian pox lesions and blood and gastrointestinal parasite infections were at low prevalence (< or = 4%) compared with Proctophyllodes spp. feather mite infestations (32%) in the population. All parasites occurred at generally low levels in individual hosts. A logistic regression analysis of our data suggests that greater fat scores, tarsal length, and being male are potential risk factors for mite infestation in house finches.
Genotypic analyses of Mycoplasma gallisepticum isolates from songbirds by random amplification of polymorphic DNA and amplified-fragment length polymorphism.	Mycoplasma gallisepticum (MG) conjunctivitis emerged in 1994 as a disease of free-ranging house finches (Carpodacus mexicanus) in North America and has also been isolated from other songbirds with conjunctivitis. Random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) of house finch and other songbird isolates has suggested that a single 'strain' initiated this outbreak. To explore the possibility of genomic variability among house finch isolates of MG and to evaluate the utility of a second technique for MG genotyping, we selected samples from our archive of reference strains and wild songbird isolates to analyze using both RAPD and amplified-fragment length polymorphism (AFLP); this is a newer technique that has been successfully used to explore the genomic variability of several Mycoplasma species. Both RAPD and AFLP results confirmed previous observations that during the initial stages of the MG epidemic in songbirds, isolates from different geographic locations and songbird species had genotypes that appeared to be highly similar, further supporting a single point source of origin. One 2001 isolate from New York was clearly different from the other songbird samples and clustered together with the vaccine and reference strains, indicating that substantial molecular evolution or a separate introduction has occurred.
Detection of Babesia Sp. EU1 and members of spotted fever group rickettsiae in ticks collected from migratory birds at Curonian Spit, North-Western Russia.	To reveal the prevalence of spotted fever group (SFG) rickettsiae and Babesia sp. in Ixodes ricinus (L.) ticks from migratory birds, 236 specimens represented 8 species of Passeriformes and were collected at Curonian Spit in Kaliningrad enclave of North-Western Russia. The ticks (total 126) being detached from four bird species, Turdus philomelos, Fringilla coelebs, Parus major, and Sturnus vulgaris, were investigated by PCR using the primers Rp CS.877p/Rp CS.1258n for the detection of Rickettsia and BJ1/BN2 for Babesia spp. Babesia spp. were detected in 2 of 126 (1.6%) ticks. The partial sequence of 18S rDNA had 100% similarity to human pathogenic Babesia sp. EU1. The SFG rickettsiae were detected in 19 of 126 (15.1%) ticks collected from the above-mentioned bird species. BLAST analysis of SFG rickettsia gltA assigned sequences to human pathogenic Rickettsia helvetica (10.3%), Rickettsia monacensis (3.9%), and Rickettsia japonica (0.8%) with 98%-100% sequence similarity. The SFG rickettsiae and Babesia sp. EU1 in ticks collected from the passerines in Russia were detected for the first time. The survey indicates that migratory birds may become a reservoir for Babesia spp. and SFG rickettsiae. Future investigations need to characterize the role of birds in the epidemiology of these human pathogens in the region.
Synanthropic birds influence the distribution of Borrelia species: analysis of Ixodes ricinus ticks feeding on passerine birds.	Ixodes ricinus ticks collected from 835 birds and from vegetation in the Czech Republic were analyzed. Host-seeking ticks (n = 427) were infected predominantly by Borrelia afzelii (25%). Ticks (n = 1,012) from songbirds (Passeriformes) were infected commonly by Borrelia garinii (12.1%) and Borrelia valaisiana (13.4%). Juveniles of synanthropic birds, Eurasian blackbirds (Turdus merula) and song thrushes (Turdus philomelos), were major reservoir hosts of B. garinii.
