Rapporteur report: Mechanisms and interactions.	The first two talks of this session described the basic characteristics of the interaction of ultrasound with matter, the first (by V.F. Humphrey) concentrating on the physical interactions, with the second (by W.D. O'Brien, Jr.) focusing on the biophysical effects and mechanisms. The regimes covered by the first and second talks were of primarily high-frequency (O(MHz)) ultrasound in liquids and tissue, respectively. In contrast, the third and final talk of the session (by M. Alves-Pereira) discussed observations made by her group of the vibroacoustic effects of low-frequency noise and infrasound, propagating through air, on humans and animals.
Rapporteur report: Roundup, discussion and recommendations.	There is a relative paucity of recent information regarding the long-term health effects associated with exposure to ultrasound, and to infrasound and low-frequency noise (LFN). For ultrasound, further epidemiological studies are recommended, and priority should be given to studies investigating the effects of handedness and to studies assessing possible subtle effects on brain function. These studies should reflect contemporary practises in diagnostic ultrasound and have sufficiently long follow-up periods to examine the possibility of effects into late adolescence or beyond. In the absence of a non-exposed control group, it would be advisable to make comparisons between a highly exposed group with a less exposed group, and to compare groups exposed at differing gestational stages. The effects associated with ultrasound contrast agents should also be studied, and the appropriateness of the thermal index (TI) and mechanical index (MI) should be reviewed. It is recommended that animal models should be used to investigate the effects of exposure at differing gestational ages on development, and modern cellular and molecular techniques used to investigate potential mechanisms of interaction. Although explicit morphological changes have been reported following occupational and experimental exposures to infrasound and low LFN, it was recommended that a thorough review of the relevant biological and health effects literature was necessary before specific proposals could be made. Uncertainties about the characterisation of these low frequencies also indicated the need to develop appropriate measurement techniques and protocols.
What is ultrasound?	This paper is based on material presented at the start of a Health Protection Agency meeting on ultrasound and infrasound. In answering the question 'what is ultrasound?', it shows that the simple description of a wave which transports mechanical energy through the local vibration of particles at frequencies of 20 kHz or more, with no net transport of the particles themselves, can in every respect be misleading or even incorrect. To explain the complexities responsible for this, the description of ultrasound is first built up from the fundamental properties of these local particle vibrations. This progresses through an exposition of the characteristics of linear waves, in order to explain the propensity for, and properties of, the nonlinear propagation which occurs in many practical ultrasonic fields. Given the Health Protection environment which framed the original presentation, explanation and examples are given of how these complexities affect issues of practical importance. These issues include the measurement and description of fields and exposures, and the ability of ultrasound to affect tissue (through microstreaming, streaming, cavitation, heating, etc.). It is noted that there are two very distinct regimes, in terms of wave characteristics and potential for bioeffect. The first concerns the use of ultrasound in liquids/solids, for measurement or material processing. For biomedical applications (where these two processes are termed diagnosis and therapy, respectively), the issue of hazard has been studied in depth, although this has not been done to such a degree for industrial uses of ultrasound in liquids/solids (sonar, non-destructive testing, ultrasonic processing etc.). However, in the second regime, that of the use of ultrasound in air, although the waves in question tend to be of much lower intensities than those used in liquids/solids, there is a greater mismatch between the extent to which hazard has been studied, and the growth in commercial applications for airborne ultrasound.
Osmosonication of blackberry juice: impact on selected pathogens, spoilage microorganisms, and main quality parameters.	Osmosonication combines ultrasound with nonthermal concentration. It was applied on tropical highland blackberry (Rubus adenotrichus) juice over different periods of time to assess reductions in microorganism and the impact on main quality parameters. This juice had been inoculated with Salmonella spp., Shigella sp., a lactic acid bacterium, yeasts, and molds. It was then sonicated for 5.9 to 34.1 min at 20 kHz and 0.83 W/mL. Nonthermal concentration was simulated by mixing the juice with a concentrate to obtain 650 g TSS/kg. It was then stored at -18 °C for up to 82 h. The lactic acid bacterium, yeasts, and molds were reduced by 1.60 to as much as 5.01 log(10) CFU/mL, whereas, for pathogens, reductions were total ≥7.1 log(10) CFU/mL after 24 h of storage, even for juice not sonicated, because of low pH. Color, antioxidant capacity, anthocyanins, and ellagitannins did not change significantly during sonication treatment up to 32 min. However, an off-flavor was detected after 8 min of sonication. Nonetheless, osmosonication can be considered as an alternative to thermal processes for producing safe and high-quality concentrates.
Pre-treatment of sperm reduces success of ICSI in the pig.	In pigs, although ICSI is a feasible fertilization technique, its efficiency is low. In general, injected pig sperm are insufficient to induce oocyte activation and embryonic development. Pretreatments for disrupting sperm membranes have been applied to improve the fertility of ICSI oocytes; however, we hypothesize that such pretreatment(s) may reduce the ability of the sperm to induce oocyte activation. We first evaluated the effects of sperm pretreatments (sonication (SO) to isolate the sperm heads from the tails, Triton X-100 (TX), and three cycles of repeated freezing/thawing (3×-FT) for disrupting sperm membranes) on the rate of pronucleus (PN) formation after ICSI. We found that oocytes injected with control (whole) sperm had higher rates of PN formation than those obtained after subjecting the sperm to SO, TX, and 3×-FT. The amounts of phospholipase Cζ (PLCζ), which is thought to be the oocyte-activating factor in mammalian sperm, in sperm treated by each method was significantly lower than that in whole untreated sperm. Furthermore, using immunofluorescence, it was found that in pig sperm, PLCζ was localized to both the post-acrosomal region and the tail area. Thus we demonstrated for the first time that sperm pretreatment leads to a reduction of oocyte-activating capacity. Our data also show that in addition to its expected localization to the sperm head, PLCζ is also localized in the tail of pig sperm, thus raising the possibility that injection of whole sperm may be required to attain successful activation in pigs.
Simulations and measurements of transcranial low-frequency ultrasound therapy: skull-base heating and effective area of treatment.	Measurements of temperature elevations induced by sonications in a single intact cadaver skull filled with soft-tissue mimicking phantom material were performed using magnetic resonance thermometry. The sonications were done using a clinical transcranial ultrasound therapy device operating at 230 kHz and the measurements were compared with simulations done using a model incorporating both the longitudinal and shear wave propagation. Both the measurements and simulations showed that in some situations the temperature increase could be higher in the phantom material adjacent to the skull-base than at the focus, which could lead to undesired soft-tissue damage in treatment situations. On average the measurements of the sonicated locations, as well as the comparative simulations, showed 32 ± 64% and 49 ± 32% higher temperature elevations adjacent to the skull-base than at the focus, respectively. The simulation model was used to extend the measurements by simulating multiple sonications of brain tissue in five different skulls with and without correcting the aberrations caused by the skull on the ultrasound. Without aberration correction the closest sonications to the skulls that were treatable in any brain location without undesired tissue damage were at a distance of 19.1 ± 2.6 mm. None of the sonications beyond a distance of 41.2 ± 5.3 mm were found to cause undesired tissue damage. When using the aberration correction closest treatable, safe distances for sonications were found to be 16.0 ± 1.6  and 38.8 ± 3.8 mm, respectively. New active cooling of the skull-base through the nasal cavities was introduced and the treatment area was investigated. The closest treatable distance without aberration correction reduced to 17.4 ± 1.9 mm with the new cooling method. All sonications beyond a distance of 39.7 ± 6.6 mm were found treatable. With the aberration correction no difference in the closest treatable or the safety distance was found in comparison to sonications without nasal cavity cooling. To counteract undesired skull-base heating a new anti-focus within solid media was developed along with a new regularized phasing method. Mathematical bases for both the methods and simulations utilizing them were presented. It was found that utilizing the anti-focus in solid media and regularized phasing, the fraction of temperature increase of the brain tissue at the focus and the peak temperature increase adjacent to the skull-base can be increased from 1.00 to 1.95. This improves the efficiency of the sonication by reducing the energy transfer to the skull-base.
