The interference of rosmarinic acid in the DNA fragmentation induced by osmotic shock.	The induction of cell death in human erythroleukemic cells (K562) by sorbitol shows the typical apoptotic changes in ultrastructural morphology, including blebbing, chromatin condensation and nuclear membrane breakdown. Using a cytofluorimetric approach, we found that sorbitol induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) followed by DNA fragmentation in leukemic cells. In this study, we investigated effect of curcumin and rosmarinic acid on cell viability in three different cell lines: erythroleukemia K562, papillary NPA, and anaplastic ARO thyroid cancers. Curcumin was able to induce apoptosis in a concentration- and time dependent manner in three cell lines, while rosmarinic acid was less effective on this process. To examine this possibility in cellular system, this study evaluated the capacities of both compounds acting as antioxidant inhibiting sorbitol-induced apoptosis. K562, NPA and ARO cells were pre-incubated with 25 microM rosmarinic acid to allow the uptake and then the cell lines were treated with 1 M sorbitol. Afterwards, the cells were subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis to assess the DNA fragmentation. In conclusion, the antioxidant activity of rosmarinic acid is able to inhibit sorbitol-induced apoptosis.
Sorbitol permease: an apical membrane transporter in cultured renal papillary epithelial cells.	The efflux of sorbitol from the rabbit papillary epithelial cell line PAP-HT25 occurs through a specific transport pathway, which we denote the "sorbitol permease." The permease was studied by measuring cell volume changes that accompanied osmotic swelling and by determination of the sorbitol efflux from plasma membrane vesicles. The cell volume studies showed that sorbitol efflux in response to hypotonicity occurred only across the apical membrane of the cells and that loss of sorbitol was the primary mechanism for regulatory volume decrease (RVD) by these cells. Quinidine, a permeant inhibitor of the sorbitol permease, was shown to prevent RVD when added to either apical or basolateral bathing solution. Cell volume experiments also showed that the permease was present only on the apical membrane of cells that had been grown in isotonic medium and did not accumulate sorbitol. The permease could be demonstrated in membrane vesicles obtained from cells exposed to a hypotonic environment before being homogenized. Quinidine blocked the sorbitol efflux from vesicles indicating that it either directly inhibited the permease or a membrane-associated activation step.
