Opportunities in the industrial biobased products industry.	Approximately 89 million metric t of organic chemicals and lubricants, the majority of which are fossil based, are produced annually in the United States. The development of new industrial bioproducts, for production in stand-alone facilities or biorefineries, has the potential to reduce our dependence on imported oil and improve energy security. Advances in biotechnology are enabling the optimization of feedstock composition and agronomic characteristics and the development of new and improved fermentation organisms for conversion of biomass to new end products or intermediates. This article reviews recent biotechnology efforts to develop new industrial bioproducts and improve renewable feedstocks and key market opportunities.
Molecular characterization, technological properties and safety aspects of enterococci from 'Hussuwa', an African fermented sorghum product.	To identify enterococci from Hussuwa, a Sudanese fermented sorghum product, and determine their technological properties and safety for possible inclusion in a starter culture preparation.
An novel immobilization method of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to sorghum bagasse for ethanol production.	Natural sorghum bagasse without any treatment was used to immobilize Saccharomyces cerevisiae at 0.6+/-0.2g dry cell weight (DCW)/g dry sorghum bagasse weight (DSW) through solid-state or semi-solid state incubation. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of the carriers revealed the friendship between yeast cells and sorghum bagasse are adsorption and embedding. The ethanol productivity of the immobilized cells was 2.24 times higher than the free cells. In repeated batch fermentation with an initial sugar concentration of 200g/L, nearly 100% total sugar was consumed after 16 h. The ethanol yield and productivity were 4.9 g/g consumed sugar on average and 5.72 g/(Lh), respectively. The immobilized cell reactor was operated over a period of 20 days without breakage of the carriers, while the free cell concentration in the effluent remained less than 5 g/L thoughout the fermentation. The maximum ethanol productivity of 16.68 g/(Lh) appeared at the dilution rate of 0.3h(-1).
Does the house mouse self-regulate its density in maturing sorghum and wheat crops?	1. One of the central questions in population ecology and management is: what regulates population growth? House mouse Mus domesticus L. populations erupt occasionally in grain-growing regions in Australia. This study aimed to determine whether mouse populations are self-regulated in maturing sorghum and wheat crops. This was assessed by examining food supply to mice (i.e. yield) and the relationship between initial mouse density (D(I)) and density at harvest (D(H)). Eight levels of D(I) ranging from 89 to 5555 mice ha(-1) were introduced to sorghum at the hard dough stage and to wheat crops at the milky stage in mouse-proofed pens. D(H) was measured by trapping out mice 49 days after the introduction. 2. There were at least 3.11 tonnes ha(-1) of wheat and 1.85 tonnes ha(-1) of sorghum grain available for mice at harvest. The estimated relationship between D(I) and D(H) was asymptotic exponential, with D(H) initially increasing almost linearly with D(I). When D(I) was above c. 500 mice ha(-1), D(H) increased asymptotically with D(I) and then saturated at c. 3100 mice ha(-1). The asymptotic increases in and saturation of D(H) was due partly to more young mice being born and recruited in pens treated with lower levels of D(I). 3. Our findings indicated that mouse densities in maturing cereal crops were driven by a numerical response of mice to the abundant supply of grain, modified by some unknown self-regulation mechanism that reduced this numerical response of mice at higher mouse densities. The mechanism was possibly spacing behaviours. Although the nature of this self-regulation mechanism is not known our model is, nevertheless, useful for predicting increases and eruptions in mouse population density in sorghum and wheat crops. Understanding the nature of this mechanism may provide insights into population processes that can be exploited in controlling mice in cereal crops.
Gluten-free cookies prepared with sorghum flour]	Considering that sorghum is a gluten free flour, it could be proposed as an ingredient to produce alternative bakery products for the subjects with Celiac Disease, since they do not have many food options available in the market. For this reason, the main goal of this study is to develop chocolate cookies with sorghum flour (Sorghum vulgare). The experimental design used was the simplex-lattice factor to compare the following variables: sorghum flour (50-100%), rice flour (0-50%) and corn starch (0-50%), totaling up to ten experiments. The formulations IX and X were selected as the ones with the highest sensorial scores The sorghum flour, regular chocolate cookies and gluten free cookies were submitted to physicochemical analysis. Physical and sensorial analysis using Quantitative Descriptive Analysis (QDA) and hedonic analysis were performed for the two cookies preparation. Sorghum flour presented characteristics compared with the described by the food regulation laws. The preparations that presented satisfactory sensorial characteristics were the ones that had 58 and 67% of sorghum flour, 8 and 17% of rice flour, 33 and 17% of corn starch, respectively. The performance for both IX and X formulations was 0,92 and the specific volume was 1,54 and 1.46 cm3/g, respectively. When compared with regular cookies, the differences on most of the sensorial attributes evaluated on sorghum cookies were not statistically significant (P < 0.05), except for the color and the odour. All the sensorial scores reached values equal or higher than 7 for both samples and most of them scored 8. The results showed the feasibility of including sorghum flour on the manufacture of gluten free cookies.
Three traditional fermented baobab foods from Benin, Mutchayan, Dikouanyouri, and Tayohounta: preparation, properties, and consumption.	Forest food resources contribute significantly to food supply in areas where they grow. Three fermented baobab foods were studied: Dikouanyouri (from seeds, pH = 6.5); Tayohounta (from seed kernels, pH = 7), and Mutchayan (from baobab pulp and sorghum, pH = 4.2). Bacillus spp. (8.5 and 9.5 Log cfu /g) and lactic acid bacteria (8.9 and 8.4 Log cfu /g,) dominate in Dikouanyouri and Tayohounta, respectively. In Mutchayan, lactic acid bacteria (8.1 Log cfu/g) and yeasts (7.2 Log cfu/g) predominated. The arbitrary index of protein cleavage increases from 2.3% (unfermented products) to 13.7% in Dikouanyouri and 21.3% in Tayohounta, indicating significant protein degradation. Mutchayan is the most frequently consumed product.
