The transmembrane domain of the large subunit of HSV-2 ribonucleotide reductase (ICP10) is required for protein kinase activity and transformation-related signaling pathways that result in ras activation.	The large subunit of Herpes simplex virus type 2 ribonucleotide reductase (ICP10) is a chimera consisting of a Ser/Thr protein kinase (PK) with features of a transmembrane (TM) helical segment localized at the amino terminus, and the RR1 domain localized at the carboxy terminus. To elucidate the role of the TM segment in ICP10-mediated transformation we established cell lines that constitutively express ICP10 (JHLa1) or its TM deleted mutant p139TM (JHL15). ICP10 was associated with purified JHLa1 plasma membranes. Membrane immunofluorescence and FACS analysis with antibodies to synthetic peptides located upstream and downstream of the TM indicated that ICP10 is a membrane-spanning protein. p139TM was not associated with JHL15 plasma membranes. ICP10 kinase activity was detected in JHLa1 but not JHL15 cells as determined by immunocomplex kinase assays and metabolic labeling. JHLa1 cells displayed anchorage-independent growth whereas JHL15 cells and JHL9 cells that express a mutant deleted in the PK catalytic domain were negative. ras-GTPase activating protein (ras-GAP) was phosphorylated in JHLa1 but not JHL15 cells and GTPase activity was lower in JHLa1 than JHL15 cells. Furthermore, ICP10 but not p139TM bound the guanine nucleotide releasing factor son of sevenless 1 (Sos1) and ras-GTP (activated ras) was higher in JHLa1 than JHL15 cells. The data suggest that ICP10 constitutively increases ras activity, and its TM segment plays a critical role in transformation-related signaling pathways.
Isolated Sos1 PH domain exhibits germinal vesicle breakdown-inducing activity in Xenopus oocytes.	Purified, bacterially expressed PH domains of Sos1, IRS-1, betaARK, and PLCdelta1 were analyzed functionally by means of microinjection into full grown, stage VI Xenopus laevis oocytes. Whereas the PH domains from IRS-1, betaARK, or PLCdelta1 did not show any effect in the oocytes, injection of the purified Sos1 PH domain resulted in induction of significant rates of germinal vesicle breakdown and meiotic maturation. Furthermore, the Sos1 PH domain exhibited also significant synergy with insulin or coinjected normal Ras protein in induction of germinal vesicle breakdown, although it did not affect the rate of progesterone-induced maturation. These results suggest that purified, isolated PH domains retain, at least in part, their functional specificity and that Xenopus oocytes may constitute a useful biological system to analyze the functional role of the Sos1 PH domain in Ras signaling pathways.
