Reforming the South African health care system.	South Africa's success in reforming its health care delivery system will depend very largely on its success in reforming its shattered political and economic structure. In this article, the author describes the social, political, and economic factors that dominate the South African scene and suggests the alternative courses that are available to bring the country out of its apartheid past. Both South Africa and its internal and external critics will have to approach the task with patient understanding and flexibility to achieve lasting and satisfactory results.
Potential savings from generic prescribing and generic substitution in South Africa.	Generic prescribing and generic substitution are mechanisms for reducing the cost of drugs. The purpose of this study was to assess the extent to which generic prescribing by private medical practitioners and generic substitution by private pharmacists is practised in South Africa and to estimate the potential savings from these two practices. Prescriptions from 10 pharmacists were collected on four randomly selected days. Computer printouts of all the prescriptions dispensed on these four days together with the original doctor's prescription were priced using a commercially available pharmacy dispensing computer package. A total of 1570 prescriptions with a total number of 4086 items were reviewed. Of the total prescriptions, 45.7% had at least one item for which there was a generic equivalent. Of the 961 drugs which had generic equivalents, 202 (21 %) were prescribed using the generic name of the drug. Only 0.3% of prescribers prohibited generic substitution. The cost of the prescription as dispensed was 1.4% (mean cost: R116.19 vs R117.84) below that of the original doctor's prescriptions, indicating the marginal benefit from the current low substitution rate of 13.9% by pharmacists. About 6.8% of the cost of the original doctor's prescriptions (mean cost: R117.84) could have been saved if total generic substitution (mean cost: R109.65) was practised. The cost of the prescriptions with only brand name items (mean cost: R120.49) would have been 9.9% higher than if generic drugs were used. Current restrictive prescribing and dispensing practices result in marginal cost savings from generic prescribing and generic substitution. Both these practices have a potential to reduce drug costs, if actively encouraged and practised to maximum capacity. It is noteworthy, however, that the potential savings from generic prescribing and substitution are at most 9.9% in the absence of any changes in types of drugs prescribed.
Block appointments in an overloaded South African health centre: quantitative and qualitative evaluation.	Long waiting times are a serious problem for patients using urban health centres in developing countries. A block appointment system was introduced and evaluated in a large South African health centre. Waiting times of all patients were measured over a one-week period before and after the implementation of appointments. Focus group and individual interviews were conducted with staff and patients. After introducing appointments, patients with acute and chronic illnesses and having appointments had significantly shorter waits than similar patients without appointments (difference in median waits: 63 and 39 minutes respectively). Appointments had no benefits for patients not seeing doctors or collecting repeat medication. There was, however, an overall increase in patients' waiting times after introducing the system, mainly due to one atypical day in the follow-up study. Focus groups and interviews revealed that staff were sceptical at baseline but at follow-up were positive about the system. Patients were enthusiastic about the appointment system at all stages. The study shows that block appointments can reduce patient waiting times for acute patients, but may not be suitable for all patients. Staff and patients had different views, which converged with experience of the new system.
Hospitals overseas: keeping costs down.	Britain is far from alone in its attempts to curb the capital costs of new hospitals. David Cowan, leader of the hospitals research group in the South African National Building Research Institute at Pretoria, describes in this paper, based on one originally presented to an IHF congress, how his country has tried to meet the problem.
The impact of HIV infection on Mycobacterium kansasii disease in South African gold miners.	The impact of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on Mycobacterium kansasii disease in miners was investigated with a retrospective study covering a single workforce. M. kansasii, isolated from 43 HIV-positive and 202 HIV-negative miners, was the most common nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) species in both HIV groups. CD4 counts were unusually high for M. kansasii disease (mean 490 x 10(6)/L, from 14 HIV-positive men). Treatment outcomes were similar: mortality during treatment was higher in HIV-positive than in HIV-negative men (9% and 2%, respectively), but not significantly so. The majority of a sample of 31 HIV-positive and 92 HIV-negative men had radiological silicosis and/or old tuberculosis scarring prior to M. kansasii disease. A normal premorbid radiograph was more common in HIV-positive men (45% versus 24%; odds ratio [OR], 2.62; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.01 to 6.67). New cavitation was less common (55% versus 78%; OR, 0.34; 95% CI, 0.13 to 0.88) and new hilar adenopathy more common (OR, 5.07; 95% CI, 1.24 to 21.9) in HIV-positive than in HIV-negative men. Miners, who have additional NTM risk factors, develop M. kansasii disease that occurs at an earlier stage of HIV infection and more closely resembles disease in HIV-negative men than has been found for HIV-associated M. kansasii disease in other settings.
Nontuberculous mycobacteria: defining disease in a prospective cohort of South African miners.	A gold mining work force was followed prospectively over 1 yr for sputum nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) isolates. NTM were isolated from 118 men, of whom 32 (27%) met the American Thoracic Society (ATS) case-definitions for pulmonary NTM disease (23 M. kansasii, seven M. scrofulaceum, one M. avium, and one M. abscessus). Determining isolate significance was difficult because most men had been started on presumptive TB treatment before isolate identification (70%). Histologic criteria were considered inappropriate for this high M. tuberculosis incidence population, particularly for patients who had stabilized on presumptive TB treatment. Among men not meeting case-definitions, indicators of disease were significantly more prevalent for M. kansasii than for M. fortuitum, the local laboratory contaminant (ORs: 6.5 for cough, 7. 2 for smear-positivity, 36.0 for radiologic changes, and 14.3 for presumptive TB treatment), suggesting underdiagnosis of M. kansasii disease. Of 53 men with definite or possible M. kansasii disease, 18 (34%) were HIV-positive. HIV-associated M. kansasii disease occurred at an early stage of immunosuppression (median CD4 count, 381 x 10(6)/L) with a good outcome (83% cured after 12 mo of treatment). ATS case-definitions for NTM disease are difficult to apply in this population, and treatment decisions should be guided by the pathogenic potential of the isolate.
Equitable rationing of highly specialised health care services for children: a perspective from South Africa.	The principles of equality and equity, respectively in the Bill of Rights and the white paper on health, provide the moral and legal foundations for future health care for children in South Africa. However, given extreme health care need and scarce resources, the government faces formidable obstacles if it hopes to achieve a just allocation of public health care resources, especially among children in need of highly specialised health care. In this regard, there is a dearth of moral analysis which is practically useful in the South African situation. We offer a set of moral considerations to guide the macro-allocation of highly specialised public health care services among South Africa's children. We also mention moral considerations which should inform micro-allocation.
bcl-2 immunoreactivity, human papillomavirus DNA, and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.	The aim of this study was to identify the role of bcl-2 protein expression in precancerous lesions of the cervix in patients from Johannesburg, South Africa and to correlate this expression with human papillomavirus (HPV) status. Archival cervical biopsy specimens (n = 107) of normal squamous epithelia (n = 18), pure HPV squamous epithelial lesions (n = 15), cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I lesions (n = 17), CIN II lesions (n = 26), and CIN III lesions (n = 31) underwent bcl-2 immunohistochemical analysis with use of the streptavidin-biotin complex/horseradish peroxidase system and nonisotopic in situ hybridization for the detection of HPV DNA. Although 45 (61%) of the 74 CIN lesions demonstrated bcl-2 protein expression in the epithelia, most seemed to be in a patchy basal cell distribution, with a 1+ to 2+ intensity. Furthermore, comparison of bcl-2 immunoreaction between the low and high grades of the CIN lesions did not reveal significant differences. In addition, there was no apparent link between the presence of HPV DNA and bcl-2 expression in the CIN lesions. In contrast to previous studies that showed an increase in bcl-2 immunostaining intensity with increasing severity of CIN, only 4 (5.4%) of our 74 CIN specimens satisfied this pattern. Hence, we suggest that bcl-2 protein expression might not play a significant role in the majority of CIN lesions in this population group and that it might not correlate with HPV status.
Status report of the NAC particle therapy programme.	The 200 MeV cyclotron facility at the National Accelerator Centre has been operational since 1987. Between September 1988 and December 1997 a total of 973 patients (26,916 fields) had been treated on the 66 MeV p+Be isocentric neutron therapy system. Patients are currently being treated according to several protocols, including tumors of the head and neck, salivary gland and breast and soft tissue sarcomas, uterine sarcomas and paranasal sinuses. A multiblade post-collimator trimmer has recently being installed. This device provides improved neutron beam shaping capability. Between September 1993 and December 1997 a total of 243 patients (4008 fields) had been treated (mainly intracranial stereotactic irradiations) on the fixed horizontal 200 MeV proton therapy facility. The facility incorporates an innovative automatic patient positioning system. Two new fixed beam lines for proton therapy are presently being designed (horizontal and 30 degrees to the vertical) for an existing unused treatment vault. Spot scanning systems will be developed for both beam lines.
Beyond the biomedical and behavioural: towards an integrated approach to HIV prevention in the southern African mining industry.	While migrant labour is believed to play an important role in the dynamics of HIV-transmission in many of the countries of southern Africa, little has been written about the way in which HIV/AIDS has been dealt with in the industrial settings in which many migrant workers are employed. This paper takes the gold mining industry in the countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) as a case study. While many mines made substantial efforts to establish HIV-prevention programmes relatively early on in the epidemic, these appear to have had little impact. The paper analyses the response of key players in the mining industry, in the interests of highlighting the limitations of the way in which both managements and trade unions have responded to HIV. It will be argued that the energy that has been devoted either to biomedical or behavioural prevention programmes or to human rights issues has served to obscure the social and developmental dimensions of HIV-transmission. This argument is supported by means of a case study which seeks to highlight the complexity of the dynamics of disease transmission in this context, a complexity which is not reflected in individualistic responses. An account is given of a new intervention which seeks to develop a more integrated approach to HIV management in an industrial setting.
Tony Melcher's contributions to the regeneration of the periodontium.	The impact of Tony Melcher's scientific work on periodontal regeneration is discussed in light of his interests in cellular domains and bone healing, the physiology of the periodontal ligament, and his development of organ and cell culture methods. Collectively, his scientific accomplishments have pointed us in new directions for approaching periodontal regeneration and have helped to create new research opportunities, many of which were previously unrecognized. Tony's scientific ideas are insightful, numerous, and compelling; his ability to make these ideas come alive and relevant to clinical problems has been a major influence in shaping our current thinking on the biology of the periodontium and on periodontal regeneration.
The integration of comprehensive psychiatric/mental health care into the primary health system: diagnosis and treatment.	This research study was funded by the Health Systems Trust in Cape Town through the University of Natal in Durban. OBJECTIVES. The objectives of this study were to teach primary health care nurses to diagnose and treat common psychiatric conditions, to refer those patients whom they cannot handle, and to evaluate the implementation of these functions in their primary health care practice. METHODS. Twenty nurses from six clinics in one province of South Africa were trained, and implementation was studied. History taking, diagnosis, pharmacological treatment and referral were studied through record reviews. Record reviews were done by two independent psychiatrists, who achieved an inter-rater reliability of 0.68. RESULTS. Record reviews showed that at the end of the project nurses could take substantially complete psychiatric histories in 89% cases, five axis diagnoses were correct in 63% of cases, and when STAT medication was prescribed it was appropriate in 92% of cases. Appropriate long-term medication was prescribed in 60% of cases. ETHICAL ISSUES. Permission was obtained from the provincial office, the Municipal Offices and participating clinics. Informed consent was obtained by the registered nurses from all participating clients. LIMITATIONS. The sample for the clinics was not representative of all clinics in the Eastern Cape but a representation of rural-urban settings sampled from 20 clinics in a region. The sample of consumers was convenient and may not represent the client population in each clinic. For this reason the findings may not be a true reflection of the entire region, and generalization of the findings should be made at the utmost discretion of the reader.
Findings in fatal cases of poisoning attributed to traditional remedies in South Africa.	An analysis of the Johannesburg forensic database over the years 1991-1995 revealed 206 cases in which a traditional remedy was either stated to be the cause of death or was found to be present in a case of poisoning with an unknown substance. The range of toxins detected was wide, with herbal materials being found in 43% of cases, and pharmaceutical or agri-chemicals in 20% and 33% respectively. Since there are as yet no standard methods for the detection of many herbal remedies or their metabolites, careful analysis, using methods such as HPLC/MS, are mandatory for the correct identification of the true cause in cases of poisoning ascribed to traditional remedies.
Management of gunshot wounds: the Johannesburg experience.	The Johannesburg hospitals see large numbers of gunshot wounds and there is, therefore, considerable experience in their management. Historically, management has been dictated by experimental theories of wounding mechanisms. More modern work has indicated that some of these theories have been somewhat misleading, and some traditional means of management have changed. The basic military surgical lessons of the excision of dead tissue, delayed primary suture remain valid, it is the understanding of tissue damage and the more logical response which has changed. It is the wound as encountered which is managed, irrespective or the theoretical velocity of the bullet. The Johannesburg practice is outlined with regard to regions of the body, with discussion of, among others, the conservative management of gunshot wounds of the abdomen, primary repair of the colon, non operative management of certain limb wounds. The practice is summarised, based on considerable experience and the logistic implications of large numbers and may be useful to surgeons less experienced in gunshot wound management.
Maize meal, non-esterified linoleic acid, and endemic cancer of the esophagus--preliminary findings.	Endemic cancer of the esophagus has shown a positive association with the consumption of maize meal. It has been postulated that this association is due to the conversion, in the stomach mucosa, of the linoleic acid contained in maize meal to prostaglandin E2. The proportion of non-esterified linoleic acid available in the stomach may therefore be an important factor. Samples of commercially prepared maize flour, cooked and uncooked, and other maize-based foods were analysed for total and free content of various fatty acids using gas-liquid chromatography. High levels of non-esterified fatty acids (11 to 42% of contained fatty acids) were found both in maize meal and in foods prepared from it. In food prepared from maize meal, 49 mg to 363 mg non-esterified linoleic acid per 100-g sample was found. High levels of non-esterified linoleic acid in the diet, causing raised intragastric production of prostaglandin E2 and profoundly affecting the normal pH and fluid content of the esophagus, may create a predisposition to esophageal carcinogenesis.
An international comparison of the reliability and responsiveness of the Duke Health Profile for measuring health-related quality of life of patients treated with alprostadil for erectile dysfunction.	It is important that health measures are both reliable and responsive to clinical change. The aim of this study was to assess the reliability and responsiveness of the physical, mental, and social health scales of the Duke Health Profile (DUKE).
STD-related knowledge, beliefs and attitudes of Xhosa-speaking patients attending STD primary health-care clinics in South Africa.	The primary aim of this study was to describe patients at sexually transmitted disease (STD) clinics in Cape Town, South Africa, in terms of gender, education and age differences relative to their STD knowledge and beliefs, their condom use, as well as their attitudes towards condom use and their condom-use behaviour. The information was collected with a view to developing a health education intervention. Structured interviews were conducted with 2978 randomly sampled Xhosa-speaking STD clinic attenders about their knowledge, beliefs and practices regarding STDs and related behaviours. More males (75%) than females (25%) presented for STD treatment. The majority of patients (92%) were younger than 35 years. Female patients were found to be more aware than male patients of the sexual nature of STD transmission, valued personal autonomy in sexual behaviour and expressed a greater need to use condoms. Males perceived STD symptoms to be more serious, had more misconceptions about the cause of STDs and also more negative beliefs and attitudes towards condom use. Only 34.9% of the patients reported using condoms in the last 6 months while only 24.5% reported regular use. Those who reported condom use were more knowledgeable about the sexual transmission of STDs and the effects of STDs on the neonate. They also had fewer misconceptions about the causes of STDs and perceived STD symptoms to be more serious, attached greater value to personal autonomy in sexual behaviour and condom use and had more positive outcome expectancies of refusing sex than those who never used condoms. The data suggest that targeted interventions directed at males will have to address their inadequate knowledge regarding STDs in terms of transmission, causes, consequences, prevention and cure. Their negative beliefs and attitudes towards condoms will need special attention, especially in view of their multiple partner behaviour. Interventions directed at females will need to improve their knowledge regarding STD consequences, causes, recognition of symptoms as well as improve their knowledge of aspects of prevention and cure. All interventions must facilitate personal autonomy in decision making about sexual behaviour and condom use for both men and women, through skills development programmes that promote self-efficacy in the individual and instil a culture of mutual respect of such in the community.
General practitioners and national health insurance--results of a national survey.	To determine the attitudes of South African general practitioners (GPs) to national health insurance (NHI), social health insurance (SHI) and other related health system reforms.
Impact of the problem-based learning curriculum on the learning styles and strategies of medical students at the University of Transkei.	This is a longitudinal cohort study of the learning styles and strategies of medical students in a problem-based, community-based curriculum as they progressed through the medical course. The purpose was to monitor and evaluate whether the programme was fulfilling the objective of producing self-directed and lifelong learners.
3.4-Billion-year-old biogenic pyrites from Barberton, South Africa:  sulfur isotope evidence.	Laser ablation mass spectroscopy analyses of sulfur isotopic compositions of microscopic-sized grains of pyrite that formed about 3.4 billion years ago in the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa, show that the pyrite formed by bacterial reduction of seawater sulfate. These data imply that by about 3.4 billion years ago sulfate-reducing bacteria had become active, the oceans were rich in sulfate, and the atmosphere contained appreciable amounts (>>10(-13) of the present atmospheric level) of free oxygen.
Secondary metabolites from Basotho medicinal plants. I. Bulbine narcissifolia.	The medicinal plant Bulbine narcissifolia is used by the Basotho, Griqua, and whites of southern Africa for wound healing and as a mild purgative. Extraction of the powdered root has yielded acetosyringone, chrysophanol, knipholone, isoknipholone, 10,7'-bichrysophanol, and chrysalodin in addition to two new anthraquinone glycosides, knipholone-8-O-beta-D-gentiobioside (1) and chrysalodin-10-beta-D-gentiobioside (2). NMR spectroscopy was used to elucidate the structures of 1 and 2 and to show that 1 binds weakly to DNA.
Human mandibular incisors from the late Middle Pleistocene locality of Hoedjiespunt 1, South Africa.	The Hoedjiespunt 1 locality is an archaeological and palaeontological site located on the Hoedjiespunt Peninsula at Saldanha Bay, South Africa. In 1996 two human teeth, a left central mandibular incisor and a left lateral mandibular incisor, were discovered during excavations in the late Middle Pleistocene palaeontological layers. These teeth are described and are found to belong to a single subadult individual. Despite their developmental stage, these incisors already display early signs of wear. Their crown diameters are larger than modern and archaeological African comparative material and are most closely comparable with crown diameters of an early Middle Pleistocene and late Middle Pleistocene dental sample from Africa, Europe and Asia. In the light of this metrical evidence, data on two previously excavated maxillary molars, most probably belonging to the same individual, were re-examined. It was found that the Hoedjiespunt 1 hominid possessed dental metrical features (large anterior teeth and small molars) comparable with other African and European hominids referred to the Middle Pleistocene.
Novel Ehrlichia genotype detected in dogs in South Africa.	DNA samples from dogs presenting with symptoms suggestive of canine ehrlichiosis, but with no morulae detected on blood smears, frequently failed to give a positive reaction with a North American Ehrlichia canis-specific PCR assay targeting the 16S rRNA gene. We suspected the presence of a pathogen genetically different from North American E. canis, and we performed experiments to test this hypothesis. DNA from one canine blood sample was subjected to PCR with primers designed to amplify Ehrlichia (Cowdria) ruminantium ruminantium 16S and map1 genes. Amplicon sequencing yielded 16S and map1 sequences which were more closely related to other E. ruminantium sequences than to those of any other Ehrlichia species. Fifty canine DNA samples were subjected to a PCR assay, previously found to be Cowdria-specific, which targets the pCS20 gene. Thirty-seven (74%) gave a positive signal, and 16 (32%) also gave visible amplicons after gel electrophoresis, suggesting that this E. ruminantium organism is common in the Pretoria-Johannesburg area. The organism has not been isolated in culture, so we cannot definitively state that it was responsible for the canine ehrlichiosis symptoms, although the occurrence of several similar cases suggests this to be so. Most importantly, we also do not yet know whether the organism is infective for, or causes heartwater in, ruminants.
The legal status of emergency contraception.	Emergency contraception (EC), an intervention within 72 h of unprotected intercourse, dates back approximately 30 years, to the Yuzpe method. Recent development of a second generation of 'morning after,' better called 'emergency' contraceptives, has raised claims that they are abortifacient. These claims are largely rejected in medical, legal and much religious reasoning. Pregnancy is usually ascribed to the postimplantation period; means to prevent completion of implantation do not terminate pregnancy. An alternative attack on EC has arisen under South American laws that protect human life 'from conception.' The chance of conception from a single act of unprotected intercourse is very low, in view of limited times of fertility during menstrual cycles. The protection of a woman's life is not suspended during pregnancy. Risks to women's interests are more credible than the chance of conception having occurred. The claim to prohibit EC to protect embryonic life from conception is therefore problematic.
Affordable CD4+ T cell counts by flow cytometry. II. The use of fixed whole blood in resource-poor settings.	We tested the feasibility and precision of affordable CD4+ T cell counting in resource-poor settings using a recently standardised fixative, TransFix in whole blood (WB) by flow cytometry (FCM). The precision of the assays was established under optimal conditions for single-platform FCM such as the volumetric CytoronAbsolute and the bead-based FACSCan. Fresh WB samples from HIV-seropositive and seronegative patients were tested in Tanzania and South Africa, fixed and sent to the UK for reanalysis 7 days later. Correlation, bias and limits of agreements were analysed by linear regression and the Bland-Altman test. Absolute CD4+ T cell counts remained stable for at least 10 days when TransFix was added to WB in 1:10 dilution at 20-25 degrees C, and for 7 days when added in 1:10 or 1:5 dilution to samples stored to mimic 'tropical' conditions at 37 degrees C. Higher temperatures such as 42 degrees C were tolerated for only short periods since the recovery had decreased to 63% by day 3. The reproducibility of lymphocyte subset analysis remained unchanged by TransFix with coefficient of variations <6% for all T cell subsets. Absolute CD4+ T cell counts and CD4+ T cell % values on fixed samples in the UK showed a high correlation with the results using fresh samples in Tanzania (r=0.993 and 0.969, respectively) and with the samples handled in Johannesburg (r=0.991 and 0.981) with minimal bias. Primary CD4 gating using only a single CD4 antibody also remained accurate in TransFixed samples (r=0.999). Thus, TransFix permits optimal fixation and transport of WB samples in the developing world for FCM to local regional laboratories and for quality assurance in international centres. When used together with inexpensive primary CD4 gating, TransFix will allow reliable and affordable CD4+ T cell counting by FCM in resource-poor settings.
The evaluation of pharmaceutical pictograms in a low-literate South African population.	An inability to read and understand written medication instructions may be a major contributory factor to non-compliance in certain patient populations, particularly in countries with a high illiteracy rate such as South Africa. Twenty three pictograms from the USP-DI and a corresponding set of 23 locally developed, culturally sensitive pictograms for conveying medication instructions were evaluated in 46 Xhosa respondents who had attended school for a maximum of 7 years. Respondents were tested for their interpretation of all 46 pictograms at the first interview and again 3 weeks later. The correct meaning of each pictogram was explained at the end of the first interview. Preference for either the Local or USP pictograms was determined. At the follow-up interview, 20 of the Local pictograms complied with the ANSI criterion of >/=85% comprehension, compared with 11 of the USP pictograms. Respondents indicated an overwhelming preference for the Local pictograms.
Competition, race, and professionalization: African healers and white medical practitioners in Natal, South Africa in the early twentieth century.	The licensing of African healers in the province of Natal, South Africa combined with urbanization, medical commodification, and an overcrowded biomedical market led to ideological and commercial competition between White biomedical practitioners and African healers in the early twentieth century in southeastern Africa. This article examines the historical antecedents of this competition and focuses on the role that competition, race, and gender played in the construction of local biomedical and African ideas of medical authority. Adopting the idea that medicine is an important site of power, contestation, and cultural exchange, I aim not only to document these historical changes in African therapeutics, but to problematize current ideas of biomedicine's colonial hegemony.
Haemonchus horaki n. sp. (Nematoda: Trichostrongyloidea) from the grey rhebuck Pelea capreolus in South Africa.	In the course of a revision of species of Haemonchus Cobb, 1898 (Nematoda), commonly referred to as large stomach worms and significant pathogens of ruminants, a new species was discovered in the grey rhebuck Pelea capreolus, and the bontebok Damaliscus pygarthus, in South Africa. The new species, Haemonchus horaki, was previously reported as a long-spicule form of H. contortus (Rudolphi, 1803) Ransom, 1911. The new species, compared with H. contortus, can be distinguished by significantly longer spicules (555-615 microm vs. 383-475 microm); a synlophe with fewer ridges (26 vs. 30 in the region of the posterior part of the esophagus) that extend more posteriorly (within 1 mm of the copulatory bursa in males and postvulvar in females, vs. 2/3 to 3/4 of prebursal and prevulvar lengths); and an asymmetrical dorsal lobe with a long dorsal ray divided for more than half of its length, forming 2 branches of unequal length (vs. a dorsal ray divided for less than half of its length and forming 2 equal branches in H. contortus).
The life cycle of haemogregarina bigemina (Adeleina: Haemogregarinidae) in South African hosts.	Haemogregarina bigemina Laveran et Mesnil, 1901 was examined in marine fishes and the gnathiid isopod, Gnathia africana Barnard, 1914 in South Africa. Its development in fishes was similar to that described previously for this species. Gnathiids taken from fishes with H. bigemina, and prepared sequentially over 28 days post feeding (d.p.f.), contained stages of syzygy, immature and mature oocysts, sporozoites and merozoites of at least three types. Sporozoites, often five in number, formed from each oocyst from 9 d.p.f. First-generation merozoites appeared in small numbers at 11 d.p.f., arising from small, rounded meronts. Mature, second-generation merozoites appeared in large clusters within gut tissue at 18 d.p.f. They were presumed to arise from fan-shaped meronts, first observed at 11 d.p.f. Third-generation merozoites were the shortest, and resulted from binary fission of meronts, derived from second-generation merozoites. Gnathiids taken from sponges within rock pools contained only gamonts and immature oocysts. It is concluded that the development of H. bigemina in its arthropod host illustrates an affinity with Hemolivia and one species of Hepatozoon. However, the absence of sporokinctes and sporocysts also distances it from these genera, and from Karyolysus. Furthermore, H. bigemina produces fewer sporozoites than Cyrilia and Desseria, although, as in Desseria, Haemogregarina (sensu stricto) and Babesiosoma, post-sporogonic production of merozoites occurs in the invertebrate host. The presence of intraerythrocytic binary fission in its fish host means that H. bigemina is not a Desseria. Overall it most closely resembles Haemogregarina (sensu stricto) in its development, although the match is not exact.
Molecular evidence for diverse populations of cassava-infecting begomoviruses in southern Africa.	In this paper we describe results obtained from screening field populations of begomoviruses from infected cassava from six countries in southern Africa. It was found that African cassava mosaic virus occurs in five of the six countries (except Angola), East African cassava mosaic virus is present in five countries (except Zambia) and South African cassava mosaic virus was detected only in South Africa and Swaziland. In addition, we report for the first time in southern Africa, the appearance of the Ugandan variant virus (UgV) which was found frequently in mixed infections with other cassava-infecting begomoviruses.
Improvement of environmental health and hygiene practices--case study in the Northern Province.	The primary purpose of an improved water supply and sanitation is the achievement of acceptable health and hygiene standards as well as the sustainable improvement of the environment. Many governments recognize this and so they budget for large sums of money to improve these services to the communities. The purpose of this study was to investigate the different gaps in environmental health and hygiene practices with the aim of suggesting a strategy of improving this in the Northern Province of South Africa. To do this, 231 households and 30 schools were surveyed. Workshops and visits to different government departments were also used. This paper reports the results from this study which indicate that the situation in schools was not any better than that in households, with more than 90% of the villages still dependent on the unimproved pit latrines and 56,6% relying on standpipes which were (70% of the time) non-operational. The main problems identified seem to those associated with implementation and maintenance. The study concludes that with proper training of the water committees and their active involvement with the government and NGOs, environmental health and hygiene problems can be minimized or eliminated.
Sludge and washwater management strategies for the Vaalkop water treatment plant.	The Vaalkop plant, owned and operated by Magalies Water, provides a valuable South African case study of sludge and washwater management at a large water treatment plant. Starting out as a small plant of 18 Ml/day about thirty years ago, it has steadily grown to a plant with treatment capacity of 210 Ml/day; fairly large by South African standards. During the preceding years, it has not only been subject to a vastly larger scale of operation, but it also had to adapt to a tremendous increase in the cost of raw water, an increased environmental awareness amongst water treatment professionals and general public alike, and a much more sophisticated and complicated legislative framework. It is the objective of this paper to track the sludge and washwater management practices adopted over the years at Vaalkop, and to present the current strategies adopted for the medium to long term. The paper will summarize the previous methods of sludge and washwater disposal, with reasons why they were adopted. The multitude of technical analyses and alternatives that were performed over the years will be summarized, and may provide valuable pointers for other applications in South Africa. The current system, which has just been commissioned, will be presented; its technical design parameters, the anticipated mode of operation, its costs and how the current environmental and legislative requirements are being met.
Partnerships, community participation and intersectoral collaboration in South Africa.	Five community partnerships (CP) were initiated in South Africa as demonstration projects aimed at the re-orientation of health professionals' education (HPE) to be more community responsive and interprofessional. A cluster evaluation of these partnerships has demonstrated that, in addition to motivating all stakeholders to forge closer working relationships, it is necessary for partnerships to pay close attention to a variety of structural and operational dimensions, the lack of which could prove to be major constraints to effective partnership functioning. This study critically reviews the challenges to collaborative working as experienced by the South African cluster. Within the context of the post-apartheid restructuring and development, the discussion highlights the insights that partnerships offer to clarify the extent to which potential barriers could affect the stakeholder groups. The paper identifies potential impediments, and makes explicit how they impact on partnership fostering. Evidence is also presented for their early detection and possible solutions are identified. The lessons learnt from these South African cases are that wide representation, commitment and a sense of ownership, sound leadership skills, regular and effective communication, reliable member expertise and capabilities and attention to power issues are crucial elements in the partnership equation. The paper concludes with an invitation to health administrators and partnership executives to devote attention to the array of interacting components that, collectively, could impinge on the effectiveness of the multifaceted nature of interprofessional joint working arrangements.
Characterization of full-length HIV type 1 subtype C sequences from South Africa.	Four full-length genome subtype C sequences from South Africa, three of which are being used for vaccine development, were characterized. Three isolates were obtained from recently infected individuals in KwaZulu/Natal: Du151, Du422, and Du179. A fourth isolate, CTSc2, was obtained from an individual residing in Cape Town. All four strains used the CCR5 coreceptor, although Du179 also used CXCR4. The four isolates clustered within subtype C, but the three Du isolates formed a subcluster with a bootstrap value of 100%, with CTSc2 outside the subcluster. None of the strains showed evidence of intersubtype recombination, as expected from the predominance of subtype C in South Africa. All 4 isolates had a 16-amino acid truncation on the 3' end of the Rev protein, identified in other subtype C isolates. Like many other subtype C strains, Du151, Du422, and Du179 had three NF-kappa B-binding sites in the LTR; however, CTSc2 had only two.
Tropical enteropathy: a T-cell-mediated crypt hyperplastic enteropathy.	Tropical enteropathy is widespread throughout the tropics, but its pathogenesis is unknown. T-cell activation has been demonstrated to result in enteropathy in vitro and in animal models, and occurs in untreated patients with coeliac disease. We have therefore examined the hypothesis that T-cell activation is important in the pathogenesis of tropical enteropathy.
National policy on testing for HIV in South Africa: an urgent need.	No National Policy exists in South Africa for the testing of persons who may be infected by HIV/AIDS. A Draft National Policy on Testing for HIV was published in the Government Gazette by the Minister of Health for commentary in December 1999. The policy provides for the following: circumstances under which HIV testing may be conducted; informed consent, pre-test and post-test counselling; and the interpretation of the policy. This policy will apply to persons who are able to give consent as well as to those who are legally entitled to give proxy consent to HIV testing. Testing with informed consent means that the individual has been made aware of, and understands, the implications of the test. "The vision which fueled our struggle for freedom; the deployment of energies and resources; the unity and commitment to common goals--all these are needed if we are to bring AIDS under control. Future generations will judge us on the adequacy of our response." President Nelson Mandela. DAVOS, 1996.
Diagnostic aspects of cervical lymphadenopathy in children in the developing world: a study of 1,877 surgical specimens.	Chronic cervical lymphadenopathy is a common clinical problem frequently requiring surgical biopsy. To evaluate the characteristics of surgically excised cervical lymph nodes (LN) in children in a developing country, we studied 1,332 children less than 15 years old (1,877 surgically removed cervical LNs) over a 23-year period (1976-1999). Indications for biopsy included failure to respond to antibiotic therapy, rapid increase in size, hard, matted LNs in the preauricular, supraclavicular, and posterior triangle of the neck, and difficulty in diagnosis. Clinical and pathological characteristics investigated included age, malignancy, and granulomatous disease such as tuberculosis (tbc). The mean age was 7 years (tbc 5.8/neoplastic disease 8.5 years). Twenty LNs (1.5%) were histologically normal. There were 637 (47.8%) with nonspecific reactive lymphoid hyperplasia and 484 with chronic granulomatous changes (36.3%). Tuberculous lymphadenitis was confirmed in 332 of these (25%). In 181 (54.5%) Mycobacterium tuberculosis was cultured and a further 149 had acid-fast bacilli. Other granulomatous diseases identified included sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy (Rosai-Dorfmann disease) (3), syphilis (4), yaws (2), and toxoplasmosis (1). No mycobacteria other than M. tuberculosis were encountered. More than two-thirds (108) of 154 patients with neoplastic LN involvement had a lymphoma; in a further 10 lymphadenopathy was associated with leukemia. Pyogenic organisms were identified in 32, and 5 were positive for human immunodeficiency virus, 1 of whom had Kaposi's sarcoma. A second pathology was identified in 18 of the 637 cases of reactive lymphoid hyperplasia (3 with tuberculosis); in 15 (1.3%) a diagnosis of lymphoma was made from other sites (pleural fluid, etc.) within 6 months of initial biopsy. This represents a diagnostically difficult subgroup requiring further investigation. Chronic lymphadenopathy in children in developing countries has a high incidence of infective causes, including a significant incidence of M. tuberculosis. The incidence of serious pathology in more than one-half of the cervical LNs examined justifies aggressive surgical investigation.
delta13C and water-use efficiency in Australian grasstrees and South African conifers over the last century.	Annual or biannual time courses of plant delta13C (delta13C(p)) over the last century (70-100 years) were recorded for leafbases of four grasstrees (Xanthorrhoea preissii) at four sites in mediterranean Australia and wood of four conifers (Widdringtonia cedarbergensis) at two sites in mediterranean South Africa. There was a strong downward trend of 2-5.5(per thousand ) from 1935 to 1940 to the present in the eight plants. Trends were more variable from 1900 to 1940 with plants at two sites of each species showing an upward trend of 1-2.5 per thousand. Accepting that delta13C of the air (delta13C(a)) fell by almost 2 per thousand over the last century, the ratio of leaf intercellular CO2 to atmospheric CO2 (c(i)/c(a)) rose in five plants and remained unchanged in three over that period. Changes in c(i)/c(a) rather than delta13C(a) were more closely correlated with changes in delta13C(p) and accounted for 6.7-71.8% (22.6 c(i)/c(a)) and 28.2-93.3% (delta13C(a)) of the variation in delta13C(p). We doubt that possible changing patterns of rainfall, water availability, temperature, shade, air pollution or clearing for agriculture have contributed to the overall trend for c(i)/c(a) to rise over time. Instead, we provide evidence (concentrations of Fe and Mn in the grasstree leafbases) that decreasing photosynthetic capacity associated with falling nutrient availability due to the reduced occurrence of fire may have contributed to rising c(i)/c(a). Intrinsic water-use efficiency (W(i)) as a function of (c(a)-c(i)) usually increased linearly over the period, with the two exceptions explained by their marked increase in c(i)/c(a). We conclude that grasstrees may provide equivalent delta13C(p )and W(i) data to long-lived conifers and that their interpretation requires a consideration of the causes of variation in both c(i)/c(a )and delta13C(a).
Effect of human immunodeficiency virus on intensive care unit outcome of patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome.	The primary objective of this study was to investigate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection on the outcome of patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) with severe Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) requiring mechanical ventilation. A secondary objective was to compare the clinical and laboratory features of HIV-seronegative and HIV-seropositive patients admitted to the ICU with severe GBS.
Associations between arterial compliance and anthropometry of children from four ethnic groups in south africa: the THUSA BANA Study.	To investigate whether associations and differences exist regarding the arterial compliance, dietary intake and anthropometric parameters of children of four different ethnic groups in South Africa.
Polyphenols from Honeybush tea (Cyclopia intermedia).	The fermented leaves and stems of Cyclopia intermedia are used to brew Honeybush tea, a herbal tea indigenous to South Africa. The plant is also used to manufacture a sweet herbal infusion used for restorative properties such as soothing coughs and alleviating bronchial complaints including tuberculosis, pneumonia, and catarrh. It is claimed to have a low tannin content and no caffeine and contains various antioxidants. Continued investigations into the phenolic content of the leaves and stems of C. intermedia yielded tyrosol and a methoxy analogue, 2-[4-[O-alpha-apiofuranosyl-(1' '-->6')-beta-d-glucopyranosyloxy]phenyl]ethanol, 4-[O-alpha-apiofuranosyl-(1' '-->2')-beta-d-glucopyranosyloxy]benzaldehyde, five glycosylated flavonols, two isoflavones, four flavanones, two isoflavones, and two flavones. Structure elucidation was done by NMR, CD, and MS methods. Because flavonoids are presumed to contribute significantly toward the scavenging effects of active oxygen species, our results indicate that the tentative claimed health-promoting properties may be attributed to the presence of these and other phenolics in C. intermedia.
Adherence is not a barrier to successful antiretroviral therapy in South Africa.	To determine adherence of an indigent African HIV-infected cohort initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART); to identify predictors of incomplete adherence (< 95%) and virologic failure (> 400 HIV RNA copies/ml).
How well do fourth year Wits dental students place resin composite restorations?	To evaluate, by means of a scanning electron microscope (SEM) the quality of resin composite restorations, placed as a first attempt by fourth-year dental students.
The human face of decentralisation and integration of health services: experience from South Africa.	This paper explores the processes of policy-making, budgeting and service implementation in three provinces of South Africa, drawing on interviews with health managers at different levels of government. It illustrates how the process of decentralisation creates disjunctures between the policy-making authority of higher levels of government and the implementation capacity of service provision levels. It also explores the complex dynamics between those responsible for specific policies, such as reproductive health policies, and those responsible for managing the integrated delivery of all policies, with their resultant contestations over authority and resources. The pace of change in South Africa and the enormous capacity it requires, both in relation to financial management and the technical skills needed for specific programmes, has created a sense of frustration and demoralisation. Whilst shortage of financial resources, particularly as reflected in shortage of staff, is frequently assumed to be the biggest constraint in this context, most managers identified other issues, particularly staff morale, as greater barriers to the delivery of high quality health services. The paper concludes that it is the complexity of experience and feelings described by health managers that may determine the extent and quality of service delivery. For this reason, both practice and research need to give greater attention to issues of power relations and personal experience of change.
Expanding safer sex options: introducing the female condom into national programmes.	Although the female condom has been introduced into over 90 countries since 1997, it has only been accepted in sexual and reproductive health programmes as a mainstream method in a few. This paper describes introductory strategies developed by Ministries of Health and non-governmental organisations in Brazil, Ghana, Zimbabwe and South Africa, supported by UNAIDS, and the manufacturers of the female condom, which have significantly expanded the number of female condoms being used. These projects have several key similarities: a focus on training for providers and peer educators, face-to-face communication with potential users to equip them with information and skills, an identified target audience, a consistent supply, a long assessment period to gauge actual use beyond the initial novelty phase, and a mix of public and private sector distribution. Female condom programmes require the sanction, leadership and funding of governments and donors. However, the non-governmental and private sectors have also played a major role in programme implementation. To ensure successful introduction of the female condom, it is crucial to involve a range of decision-makers, programme managers, service providers, community leaders and women's and youth groups. The rising cost of inaction and unprotected sex in the spread of HIV and AIDS force us to recognise the high cost of not providing female condoms alongside male condoms in family planning and AIDS prevention programmes.
Smokeless tobacco and cigarette use among black secondary school students in South Africa.	This study was conducted in 2001 with the aim of providing data on black South African secondary school students' tobacco use status, knowledge, and attitudes. The sample included 330 Grade 10 and 382 Grade 12 secondary school pupils chosen at random from six rural secondary schools in one of the regions in the Northern Province of South Africa. Results show a prevalence of 9.1% current smokers among boys and 5% among girls, and 8.4% current snuff users among girls and 3.9% among boys. The mean age of onset to take snuff was 12.5 years and that for smoking cigarettes 14.8 years. Adolescents who reported that some family member or their peers used tobacco were more likely to be users of tobacco. Two-thirds of the current snuff users believed that using snuff was safer than smoking cigarettes. Knowledge was found to be related to attitude but not with tobacco use behavior. Awareness of the adverse effects of such tobacco habits was poor and intervention programs to curb tobacco use is required.
Population genetics of the endangered Knysna seahorse, Hippocampus capensis.	The evolutionary history of the endangered Knysna seahorse, Hippocampus capensis, and the extent of gene flow among its three known populations, were investigated using 138 mitochondrial DNA control region sequences. Similarly high levels of genetic diversity were found in two of the populations (Knysna and Keurbooms Estuaries), whereas diversity in the third population (Swartvlei Estuary) was lower. Although most haplotypes are shared between at least two populations, based on the haplotype frequency distributions the three assemblages constitute distinct management units. The extant population structure of H. capensis suggests that the Knysna seahorse originated in the large Knysna Estuary. The presence of seahorses in the two smaller estuaries is either the result of a vicariance event at the beginning of the present interglacial period, colonization of the estuaries via the sea, or a combination of the two.
Spherule beds 3.47-3.24 billion years old in the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa: a record of large meteorite impacts and their influence on early crustal and biological evolution.	Four layers, S1-S4, containing sand-sized spherical particles formed as a result of large meteorite impacts, occur in 3.47-3.24 Ga rocks of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Ir levels in S3 and S4 locally equal or exceed chondritic values but in other sections are at or only slightly above background. Most spherules are inferred to have formed by condensation of impact-produced rock vapor clouds, although some may represent ballistically ejected liquid droplets. Extreme Ir abundances and heterogeneity may reflect element fractionation during spherule formation, hydraulic fractionation during deposition, and/or diagenetic and metasomatic processes. Deposition of S1, S2, and S3 was widely influenced by waves and/or currents interpreted to represent impact-generated tsunamis, and S1 and S2 show multiple graded layers indicating the passage of two or more wave trains. These tsunamis may have promoted mixing within a globally stratified ocean, enriching surface waters in nutrients for biological communities. S2 and S3 mark the transition from the 300-million-year-long Onverwacht stage of predominantly basaltic and komatiitic volcanism to the late orogenic stage of greenstone belt evolution, suggesting that regional and possibly global tectonic reorganization resulted from these large impacts. These beds provide the oldest known direct record of terrestrial impacts and an opportunity to explore their influence on early life, crust, ocean, and atmosphere. The apparent presence of impact clusters at 3.26-3.24 Ga and approximately 2.65-2.5 Ga suggests either spikes in impact rates during the Archean or that the entire Archean was characterized by terrestrial impact rates above those currently estimated from the lunar cratering record.
Foot-and-mouth disease vaccine potency testing: determination and statistical validation of a model using a serological approach.	European foot-and-mouth disease vaccine manufacturers are required to quantify the efficacy of their product in accordance with the European Pharmacopoeia (EP). The method used most often to establish the potency of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines requires viral challenge of vaccinated cattle. Alternative approaches, such as challenge-free serological assessments have many advantages over existing methods and could be used if robust statistical models could be developed that related antibody titres to protection from challenge. Logistic regression analysis of data from two independent research laboratories, representing six of the seven main serotypes of FMD, permitted the parameterisation of these models and indicated that a significant relationship existed between antibody titre and probability of protection. Furthermore, no significant differences were observed in the parameters of logistic models fitted to different strains within the serotypes A, O, and SAT-3, or when strains from serotypes A, O, and Asia-1, or SAT-1 and SAT-3, were combined. However, significant differences in the model parameters did exist between different laboratories. Using these models a bootstrap analysis suggested that for vaccines that induced consistently high titres, as few as six to eight individual animals could be used to establish with confidence the minimum protective doses that would protect 50% of vaccinated animals. We conclude that a serologically evaluated truncated test that eliminates the need to virus challenge cattle is a credible alternative for quantifying vaccine potency.
The pitfalls of translation--a case study based on the translation of the EQ-5D into Xhosa.	There is an evident need for standardised, internationally recognised instruments to measure health-related outcomes that are also locally applicable. The European Quality of Life 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D) is a widely used measure of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) that was translated into Xhosa. This communication outlines some of the different cultural and linguistic issues that had to be addressed during the translation process. The translation guidelines provided by the EuroQol group were followed. This involved both forward and backward translations by Xhosa speakers, with consensus meetings after each. Thereafter, lay panel respondent testing of the consensus version was performed. Eventually a credible Xhosa version of the EQ-5D was produced. Concepts which proved surprisingly difficult to transfer across the languages and cultures included 'mobility', 'confined to bed' and the choice of word to denote 'male'. The translation process prompted lengthy discussion and proved more challenging than initially anticipated. Despite the rigorous process followed, later additions had to be made to the questionnaire after field testing. It would appear that extreme caution should be exercised when using a questionnaire in a culture and language different from the one in which it was originally developed and validated. If this is not done, the validity of cross-cultural research projects may be open to question.
Clinical predictors of outcome in acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding.	Endoscopy has traditionally been used to risk-stratify patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB). This is problematic in resource-poor environments. The study aimed to identify patients who would not require urgent endoscopy by identifying clinical variables before endoscopy that predict uneventful recovery.
Chryseobacterium joostei sp. nov., isolated from the dairy environment.	Among a large collection of South African dairy isolates, a novel Chryseobacterium taxon (DNA group 3) was previously delineated by a polyphasic taxonomic study (Hugo et al., Syst Appl Microbiol 22, 586-595, 1999). In the present paper, this taxon is further characterized using 16S rDNA sequencing, fatty acid methyl ester analysis and a comparative phenotypic analysis, resulting in the proposal of a novel species, Chryseobacterium joostei sp. nov. (type strain Ix 5a(T) = LMG 18212(T) = CCUG 46665(T)).
Streptomyces speibonae sp. nov., a novel streptomycete with blue substrate mycelium isolated from South African soil.	An actinomycete with blue substrate mycelium was isolated from a soil sample in Cape Town, South Africa, and designated strain PK-Blue(T). The colour of the substrate mycelium was not sensitive to changes in pH. The organism produced hairy spores in Spirales-type spore chains. Chemical taxonomy indicated that it belonged to the genus Streptomyces. Strain PK-Blue(T) produced no diffusible pigments other than melanin, grew at 45 degrees C, did not degrade adenine and exhibited no antibacterial activity against Enterococcus faecium, Escherichia coli or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Analysis of its 16S rRNA gene sequence and the results of physiological tests showed that strain PK-Blue(T) (= DSM 41797(T) = ATCC BAA-411(T)) represents the type strain of a novel species of Streptomyces, for which the name Streptomyces speibonae sp. nov. is proposed.
Mining disasters in South Africa: the Rovic Diamond Mine disaster and the criminal liability of the mine authorities.	The South African economy depends heavily on the mining industry. Deep level mining--which is a very common occurrence in the South African Mining Industry, is fraught with dangers. It is therefore inevitable that these dangers will be a constant source of medico-legal involvement. At the end of November 1996, a mining disaster occurred at the Rovic Diamond Mine between Boshof and Dealsville. At about 1000 metres underground, a mudslide occurred and trapped 20 miners. Rescue workers could only retrieve four bodies. Due to the dangers of additional mudslides and collapse of the entire slope, the rescue workers were withdrawn. The 16 miners were later declared dead by a Court Order after a full investigation into the disaster was completed. In this discussion focus will be placed on the Rovic Mine Disaster Investigation, the post mortem examination of the four victims, the legal declaration of death of the other victims not found and the legal accountability of the mine authority.
Protection of human participants from risks in biomedical research: an analysis of the law of South Africa and international ethical guidelines.	In order to enhance the quality of lives of South Africans who are afflicted by many diseases, medical researchers have been engaged in biomedical research with the aim of testing, evaluating newly developed prophylactic and therapeutic methods. However, during the testing of newly developed therapeutic methods, participants are sometimes exposed to harm which may ruin the remainder of their lives or even lead to their deaths. Despite the seriousness of harm which may result from research, South Africa does not regard social and economic harms as a threat to the welfare and health of participants. Though they utilize the risk-benefit analysis as outlined by international ethical guidelines to minimize harm, this developed criterion has been shown to be an inadequate safeguard for the welfare and health of participants as it fails to cover the occurrence of scientifically unforeseen risk. To ensure protection of participants, this paper suggests the introduction of a precautionary approach in research and also, specific reference to South Africa, the recognition of all categories of harm.
Political assassins--the psychiatric perspective and beyond.	Three cases of highly publicized political assassinations, which occurred during the twentieth century, are described. In two of them (Tsafendas and Amir) a head of a state was assassinated. In both cases the second author (A.Z.) was involved in the psychiatric evaluation of the perpetrator. A third case, in which a head of state was badly wounded (Hinckley) is referred due to its overwhelming impact on public opinion and legislation. Few similarities are found between the perpetrators, who came from different cultures and acted in different eras. The psychiatric examination had a crucial role in the outcome of their trial. In spite of different milieus the forensic psychiatrist found himself amidst a highly charged event. There is no single common denominator characterizing the psychopathology of the political assassin. It is suggested that there is a spectrum of psychiatric diagnoses ranging from the psychotic perpetrator who targets the victim due to his intrapsychic delusional world, to the "sane" fanatic who chooses to commit an extreme act of violence in the service of a political goal. The criminal act, as well as the trial and the verdict bring in its wake a huge emotional public response. Consequently, theories of conspiracy as well as legislation initiatives are raised. The forensic psychiatrist should adhere to the sphere of his expertise, and it is for the court to decide upon the issues of responsibility and fitness to stand trial.
Hospital information systems: perspectives on problems and prospects, 1979 and 2002.	To assess progress made in hospital information systems (HIS) since 1979, when the forerunner of the International Medical Informatics Association Working Group on HIS first met.
Views on HIS development; recommendations of earlier working conferences compared with present challenges.	The objective of this paper is to consider the recommendations and expectations of the IMIA WG10 working conferences at Nijmegen (1988) and Göttingen (1991) from the present perspective. The methods: the original task description of WG10 is considered and the main items during the Nijmegen and Gottingen working conferences are addressed. The design and use of a HIS are compared by those for a ship.
Self-assessed health--a case study of social differentials in Soweto, South Africa.	The study of the relationship between health and social differentials as a focus of research is not new. However, most of the studies originate in the Western-developed world and are thus informed by this specific social and cultural context. The aim of the paper was to analyse the relationship between health and a range of social factors in a specific social context of a relatively deprived community in South Africa. It is based on a secondary analysis of data collected in a comprehensive social survey of Soweto conducted in 1997. A total of 2947 interviews were used for the current analysis. An attempt was made to explore basic measures of social inequality as well as more sophisticated indicators of social relationships and access to "social resources" and how they are linked to people's perception of their own health. The results reveal a clear relationship between health and a range of socio-economic indicators of inequalities. Health is significantly associated with a good "perception about the living environment" and "access to social resources". This paper presents an interesting scenario which -while reaffirming the already established connection between social differentials and health-also sheds light on a different social context and specific relationships with regard to health. It also points towards the ways people try to cope with the psycho-social stressor emanating from their specific context.
Hydatid disease of the spine in South African children.	We present three patients with neurologic complications of the spine from hydatid disease. The first was a 6-year-old girl with lower limb paralysis evolving over 2 weeks. Neuroimaging revealed a cystic mass compressing the spinal cord at the level of T8 and extending from the vertebral body. She underwent surgical decompression. Histopathologic examination confirmed hydatid disease. At 6-month follow-up, functional improvement had occurred with full ambulation. She continues on long-term albendazole therapy. Two other patients are described, one with primary spinal disease and the other with cerebral disease and secondary seeding to the spine. Spinal hydatid disease is a rarity, even more so in children. Although secondary disease, primarily affecting bone, carries a poorer long-term outlook, the first patient made a dramatic recovery and has raised therapeutic dilemmas as to the total duration of continuing albendazole therapy. The literature documents some 37 reports, mostly in adults. Considering the frequency of hydatid disease in South Africa, the incidence in our population could be under-recorded. Unless the clinician includes spinal hydatid disease, in endemic areas, as part of the differential list for paralysis and considers performing neuroimaging, this potentially treatable diagnosis will be missed.
Human immunodeficiency virus-1 and hepatitis C virus RNA among South African blood donors: estimation of residual transfusion risk and yield of nucleic acid testing.	South Africa is an endemic area for human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) infection, which has an impact on the safety of the blood supply. We studied the presence of HIV-1 and hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA, and recent HIV seroconversion, in blood donors in order to estimate transfusion risk and to determine whether nucleic acid testing (NAT) could effectively improve blood safety.
Determination of the oral susceptibility of South African livestock-associated biting midges, Culicoides species, to bovine ephemeral fever virus.	A total of 10 607 Culicoides midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) were fed on either sheep or horse blood containing not less than 6.5 log10 TCID50/ml of bovine ephemeral fever virus (BEFV). Insects were collected during two consecutive summers from two distinct climatic areas. Two seed viruses, originating from either South Africa or Australia, were used separately in the feeding trials. Blood-engorged females were incubated at 23.5 degrees C for 10 days and then individually assayed in microplate BHK-21 cell cultures. Of the 4110 Culicoides that survived, 43% were C. (Avaritia) imicola Kieffer and 27% were C. (A.) bolitinos Meiswinkel. The remainder represented 18 other livestock-associated Culicoides species. Although BEFV was detected in 18.9% of midges assayed immediately after feeding, no virus could be detected after incubation. The absence of evidence of either virus maintenance or measurable replication suggests that most of the abundant livestock-associated Culicoides species found in South Africa are refractory to oral infection with BEFV. Future studies should be carried out using species of mosquitoes that are associated with cattle in the BEF endemic areas.
Efficacy and safety of sildenafil citrate (Viagra) for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in men in Egypt and South Africa.	The efficacy of sildenafil citrate (Viagra), an oral agent for the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED), has been demonstrated in global studies. This 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, flexible-dose study assessed the efficacy and safety of sildenafil to treat ED in men in Egypt and South Africa. Men with ED of varied etiology were randomized to receive sildenafil 50 mg (n=128) or placebo (n=126); doses could be adjusted to 100 or 25 mg. Questions from the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) assessing the ability to achieve (Q3) and maintain (Q4) erections demonstrated a significant improvement with sildenafil compared with placebo (P<0.0001). Improved erections were reported by 74% of patients receiving sildenafil and 27% of those receiving placebo (P<0.0001). Headache, dyspepsia, and flushing were the most common adverse events in sildenafil-treated patients. These results are consistent with clinical trials in other countries. We conclude that sildenafil is an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment for men with ED in Egypt and South Africa.
New species of Anthostomella on fynbos, with a key to the genus in South Africa.	A study of saprobic fungi occurring on the fynbos of the Western Cape Province of South Africa yielded four unknown Anthostomella species. A. proteae from Protea nitida, A. cynaroides from P. cynaroides, A. leucospermi from Leucospermum oleifolium, and A. brabeji from Brabejum stellatifolium are described as new. New records for South Africa include A. conorum from Leucadendron sp., Protea magnifica and P. neriifolia, and A. clypeata from Ischyrolepis subverticellata, Cannomois virgata, Restio egregius, and R. cfr confusus. A dichotomous key to the Anthostomella species in South Africa is also provided.
The Ophiostoma piceae complex in the Southern Hemisphere: a phylogenetic study.	The Ophiostoma piceae species complex incorporates several economically important species, including serious tree pathogens and agents of bluestain. The species in the complex are morphologically similar, but can be distinguished from each other based on morphology, biology, mating type studies and molecular data. At present, all the species in the complex are considered to be native to the Northern Hemisphere, most of them with a very wide distribution. Only a few sporadic reports of members of the complex are available from the Southern Hemisphere, where they are believed to have been introduced, including New Zealand, Australia, Chile, Brazil and Uruguay. This study aims to confirm the identity of isolates resembling O. piceae originating from three Southern Hemisphere countries, using mating compatibility and rDNA sequencing. Our results show that O. quercus is widely distributed throughout South Africa on both native and exotic hardwoods. O. quercus is also reported for the first time from Brazil, again from a native host. O. floccosum is reported for the first time from South Africa, but from an exotic Pinus sp. These results suggest that species of the O. piceae complex are common in the Southern Hemisphere, and that current views on the origins of especially O. quercus need to be reconsidered.
Studies on the genus Setaria Viborg, 1795 in South Africa. II. Setaria scalprum (Von Linstow, 1908) and Setaria saegeri (Le Van Hoa, 1961).	Setaria scalprum (Von Linstow, 1908) and Setaria saegeri (Le Van Hoa, 1961) are closely related filarid species that occur in the smaller antelope of Africa. Material previously collected from common dulker, Sylvicapra grimmia, steenbok, Raphicerus campestris and grysbok, Raphicerus melanotis, from several localities in the northern and eastern regions of South Africa was re-examined and measurements of adult worms were compared with those given in the original descriptions of the species. Scanning electron microscopy of the anterior and posterior regions of the female worms confirmed the validity of the two species. Differences in the postdeirid, ventral transverse bands and bosses on the cuticle of the male specimens were also observed. Setaria saegeri in common duiker and grysbok is a new parasite record for these hosts.
Parasites of South African wildlife. XVII. Ostertagia triquetra n. sp. (Nematoda: Trichostrongylina) from the grey rhebuck, Pelea capreolus (Forster, 1790).	Re-examination of Teladorsagia hamata (Mönnig, 1932) Durette-Desset, 1989 reported from grey rhebuck, Pelea capreolus (Forster, 1790) proved it to be a new species of Ostertagi Ransom, 1907. The new species, for which the name Ostertagia triquetra n. sp. is proposed, differs from Teladorsagia hamata in the configuration of the bursal rays (2-1-2 in the former, 2-2-1 in the latter), and in that the interno-dorsal branch of the spicules bears a process that is triangular and convex in the new species, but concave and shaped like an ice-cream scoop in Teladorsagia hamata. Ostertagia triquetra has so far been found only in grey rhebuck in the Eastern Cape Province while Teladorsagia hamata was recorded from springbok, Antidorcas marsupialis (Zimmerman, 1780) and gemsbok, Oryx gazella (Unnaeus, 1758) in the western part of the country.
Comparative sequence analysis of the South African vaccine strain and two virulent field isolates of Lumpy skin disease virus.	The genomic sequences of 3 strains of Lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) (Neethling type) were compared to determine molecular differences, viz. the South African vaccine strain (LW), a virulent field-strain from a recent outbreak in South Africa (LD), and the virulent Kenyan 2490 strain (LK). A comparison between the virulent field isolates indicates that in 29 of the 156 putative genes, only 38 encoded amino acid differences were found, mostly in the variable terminal regions. When the attenuated vaccine strain (LW) was compared with field isolate LD, a total of 438 amino acid substitutions were observed. These were also mainly in the terminal regions, but with notably more frameshifts leading to truncated ORFs as well as deletions and insertions. These modified ORFs encode proteins involved in the regulation of host immune responses, gene expression, DNA repair, host-range specificity and proteins with unassigned functions. We suggest that these differences could lead to restricted immuno-evasive mechanisms and virulence factors present in attenuated LSDV strains. Further studies to determine the functions of the relevant encoded gene products will hopefully confirm this assumption. The molecular design of an improved LSDV vaccine is likely to be based on the strategic manipulation of such genes.
Potential for an intervention based on male circumcision in a South African town with high levels of HIV infection.	The study aims to investigate the potential for an intervention based on male circumcision in a South African town with a high level of HIV infection. It draws on two cross-sectional studies conducted in August 2000 among a sample of 606 male adults aged 13-59 years, and in August 1999 among a sample of 723 male youth aged 14-24 years. A qualitative study was further conducted on perceptions and attitudes towards male circumcision using focus group discussions and in-depth interview. Among men aged 25-59 years, 36% reported being circumcised The median reported age at circumcision was 20. A total of 42% of 14-24-year-old circumcised men reported having been circumcised in a medical setting. Circumcised and uncircumcised men did not differ in their sexual behaviour or in sociodemographic characteristics, apart from their age and ethnic group. Among 467 uncircumcised adult men, 59% said that they would be circumcised if circumcision reduced the chances of getting HIV and STDs. Focus group discussions showed that circumcision is still important to many people, and is seen as an essential part of the transition into adulthood Reluctance to be circumcised was mainly related to the possibility of adverse outcomes of circumcision performed in non-medical settings, although initiation schools remain attractive for education and transmission of cultural values. Some misconceptions remain, however, especially about the preventative nature of circumcision for STD transmission. The cultural importance of male circumcision has weakened over the last century and when it is done it is often by a medical practitioner. An intervention that would include male circumcision seems feasible in communities such as the one where this study was conducted but needs to be carefully planned in order to ensure that participants understand that circumcision probably reduces, but certainly does not eliminate, the risk of HIV infection.
An assessment of two Carpobrotus species extracts as potential antimicrobial agents.	For centuries, indigenous people in South Africa have used a variety of medicinal herbs to treat chronic infections. This investigation focused on two Carpobrotus species belonging to the family, Aizoaceae, in an attempt to assess their antimicrobial potential. Extracts of varying polarities of the plants were prepared and tested against Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans and Mycobacterium smegmatis. For the disc diffusion method, Ciprofloxacin (40 microg/disc) served as positive control for S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and M. smegmatis, whereas amphotericin B (25 microg/disc) was the control for C. albicans. A sample concentration of 10 mg/ml was used. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) were determined by two-fold serial dilution. Phytochemical analysis was completed to test for the presence of flavonoids, hydrolysable tannins, phytosterols and aromatic acids. The ethyl acetate extracts (21 microl of 95 mg/ml) were used for bio-autography, together with TLC analyses. Carpobrotus muirii and Carpobrotus quadrifidus showed antimicrobial activity against S. aureus and M. smegmatis in the disc diffusion method and inhibition against S. aureus and M. smegmatis was observed by clear zones on the TLC plate. This investigation confirms that extracts of these Carpobrotus species that are used as indigenous medicines, exhibit anti-bacterial activity. This scientific information can serve as an important platform for the development of inexpensive, safe and effective natural anti-infective medicines.
Double stranded RNA virus in South African Trichomonas vaginalis isolates.	To screen Trichomonas vaginalis isolates from South Africa for the presence of a small double stranded RNA virus designated T vaginalis virus (TVV).
Little anthelmintic drenching required for lambs finished over winter and spring on annually re-established irrigated pasture on the Highveld of Gauteng Province, South Africa.	As part of a trial to test the profitability of finishing weaner lambs over winter and spring on the Highveld of Gauteng province, an investigation was carried out over 4 consecutive years as to whether or not worm control was necessary while the lambs were on irrigated, improved pastures. Pastures that had not been grazed by sheep or other livestock for at least 5 years were planted to annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflora) that was ploughed under and replanted annually. Weaner lambs were randomly divided into either 2 (A and B) or 3 (A, B and C) groups and finished from April/May to November/December on a separate pasture per group. While Group A lambs were dewormed before being placed on pasture, those in Groups B and C were not. Faecal egg counts were performed at irregular intervals, and when the lambs were sold at the conclusion of each year's trial, the gastrointestinal tracts of 4-5 lambs per trial group were processed for worm recovery. Haemonchus contortus was the dominant worm species, while Trichostrongylus colubriformis, Ostertagia circumcincta and Trichuris spp. were encountered sporadically. From the results obtained it seems unlikely that there is appreciable 'carry-over' of the various worm species from year to year on pastures that are ploughed and replanted annually; thus it is improbable that there will be a build-up of anthelmintic-resistant worms. While on pasture, no drenching was required for the Group A lambs (dewormed before placing on the pasture), nor in 2 of the 4 years in Groups B or B+C that were not drenched and were lightly infected at the start. In the remaining 2 years Groups B or B+C were drenched once only during the course of each trial. Thus, under the conditions as in this study, little worm control is necessary, provided faecal worm egg counts are done to gauge the levels of infection before the lambs are placed on pasture, and to guard against the possibility of an increase in worm burdens thereafter in some years. Also, because of the apparent lack of carry-over between years, anthelmintic treatment at the time of introduction of the lambs or during the period of finishing should be safe as regards progressive selection for anthelmintic resistance. It is also likely to be cost-effective, considering the low cost of anthelmintics in relation to the price of lambs, to counter the possibility of a loss in production if lambs were to harbour relatively heavy worm burdens when introduced.
A survey of reproductive success in South African Thoroughbred horse breeding from 1975 to 1999.	The data and an analysis of the statistical summaries from the 'Return of Mares' of the General Stud Book of The Jockey Club of Southern Africa from 1975-1999 are presented. The total number of mares covered per season ranged from 7393 (1992) to 5180 (1995). The total living produce in the period surveyed was 95 317 foals. The categories of data examined include: the total number of mares covered per season; the total numbers and percentage of their living produce; the total numbers and percentage dead produce, 'slips' and foals born dead, barren and 'no return' mares; and the total number of live twins reported. The percentage live foals per season increased from 52 to 62% and the percentage barren and 'no return' mares declined from 35.50 to 28.40% over the period surveyed. The number of live twins reported showed a dramatic reduction from 156 to 5. These apparent improvements are ascribed to a combination of factors including advances in veterinary knowledge and technology. The findings are similar to those reported by similar surveys of national Thoroughbred populations from North America and Germany. There is an indication to broaden this annual survey by recording additional parameters more accurately reflecting reproductive efficiency rather than a cumulative annual total of live foals.
Histological evidence of chytridiomycete fungal infection in a free-ranging amphibian, Afrana fuscigula (Anura: Ranidae), in South Africa.	The 1st recorded histological evidence of chytridiomycete fungal infection in a free-ranging ranid amphibian in South Africa is presented. Literature on causes of a worldwide decline in amphibian populations is briefly reviewed.
Phylogenetics of the grass genus Ehrharta: evidence for radiation in the summer-arid zone of the South African Cape.	Climatic and geological change may play a key role in stimulating biological radiations. Here, we use phylogenetic data to test whether the comparatively high diversity of ehrharteoid grasses in the Cape region of South Africa is the result of rapid radiation associated with the onset of a seasonally arid climate during the late Miocene. A phylogenetic hypothesis based on morphological and nucleotide sequence (nuclear ITS1 and plastid trnL-F) data confirms the monophyly of the African Ehrharta species and shows that the diversification of this lineage was centered in the Cape region. Sequence divergence data (ITS1 + trnL-F) indicate a pulse of rapid speciation, which may explain poor phylogenetic resolution within the African Ehrharta clade. Alternative calibrations yield a broad range of time estimates for the start and end of this radiation, most of which indicate a radiation inside the last 11 million years. A calibration based on the age of Ehrhartoideae suggests that radiation started 9.82 +/- 0.20 million years ago and ended 8.74 +/- 0.21 million years ago. Under alternative calibrations, estimated speciation rates during the period of radiation range between 0.87 and 4.18 species per million years. Parsimony optimization of habitat parameters reveals that radiation was correlated with the occupation of seasonally arid succulent karoo environments, wet heathy (fynbos) environments being ancestral. These data support earlier suggestions that late Miocene climatic change stimulated floristic radiation at the Cape, and highlight the potential importance of environmental change in powering diversification in continental floras.
Effect of pictograms on readability of patient information materials.	To design, develop, and evaluate a simple, understandable medicine label and patient information leaflet (PIL) for nystatin suspension, and to assess the effect of incorporating pictograms on understanding in low-literate participants.
Is nCPAP of value in extreme preterms with no access to neonatal intensive care?	This prospective study was undertaken to investigate the efficacy of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (nCPAP) in a group of extremely small infants denied access to a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) in South Africa. Consecutive infants weighing less than 1200 g and/or of a gestational age below 28 weeks admitted to the neonatal ward with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), and who were refused admission to the NICU, received either nCPAP (Infant Flow System E.M.E., UK) of headbox oxygen. Of 22 infants, 11 infants were included in the treatment group (nCPAP) and 10 in the control group. Within the first 24 h, two infants (18 per cent) in the nCPAP group and eight infants (80 per cent) in the control group died (p = 0.007) (survival OR = 18; RR = 4.09). A statistically significant improvement in the arterial-alveolar (a/A) oxygen ratio occurred in the nCPAP group between postnatal day 1 and day 3 of life (0.17 vs. 0.36; p < 0.005). Neonatal complications occurred in six (55 per cent) infants who survived the first 24 h of life. Eighty per cent of the infants with intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) died, as well as all the infants who were born before arrival at the hospital. At the time of discharge from hospital, 45 per cent (five infants) in the nCPAP group survived vs. 20 per cent (two infants) in the control group. The neurodevelopmental outcome of six of the surviving seven infants were evaluated at 1 year of corrected age. The neurodevelopmental outcome as assessed by the Griffith Score was within normal limits in all infants. One infant has sensorineural deafness and one is deaf and has a possible mild spastic diplegia (both in the treatment group). We conclude that nCPAP significantly improves the short-term survival of very low birth-weight (VLBW) infants with moderate to severe respiratory distress syndrome who could not be admitted to intensive care. nCPAP significantly improves the a/A oxygen ratio between day 1 and day 3 of life.
Quantitative analysis of trophoblast invasion in preeclampsia.	The process of physiological conversion of spiral arteries is dependent on the invasion of the interstitium and spiral arteries of the uterine wall by invasive extravillous trophoblast thereby creating a high flow-low resistance vessel. Quantitative data on restriction of trophoblast invasion and failure of spiral artery transformation are limited in preeclampsia.
The rheumatoid wrist in black South African patients.	The wrist and hand X-rays of 75 black patients with rheumatoid arthritis were scored according to the Larsen criteria. The mean Larsen score for left hands was 9.6 (range 0-100) and for the right hands was 10:3 (range 0-100), whereas the score for the wrists were 2.5 (range 0-5) for the left and 2.7 (range 0-5) for the right. Our conclusion is that rheumatoid wrist involvement in black patients was more or less the same as reported in other series, but finger joint involvement was considerably less. This finding must influence surgical decision-making and also the interpretation of results of drug trials, whenever black patients are involved.
Peer led HIV/AIDS prevention for women in South African informal settlements.	South African women who live in informal settlement communities are at high risk of HIV/AIDS infection due to their poor economic and social status. Prevention programs must include methods for improving their social conditions as well as their sexual risk behaviors. Members of Partners trained 24 women from informal settlements to lead HIV/AIDS education workshops for 480 residents. When these participants reached out to their neighbors, this participatory community-based approach resulted in providing HIV/AIDS prevention messages to more than 1,440 residents. Program leaders from three settlements said in focus group discussions that results from this social influences peer led approach demonstrated that women residents are a valuable resource in providing effective HIV/AIDS prevention programs to South Africa's most vulnerable residents.
Low frequency of the V106M mutation among HIV-1 subtype C-infected pregnant women exposed to nevirapine.	Nevirapine used in single doses to prevent mother-to-child transmission has been shown to be associated with the development of transient resistant mutations. Here we describe the presence of V106M in seven out of 141 South African women (5%) 6 weeks after receiving nevirapine. V106M is a novel resistance mutation found in subtype C viruses exposed to efavirenz. This mutation is thus also induced at a low frequency in subtype C viruses exposed to single dose nevirapine.
Strong population substructure is correlated with morphology and ecology in a migratory bat.	Examining patterns of inter-population genetic diversity can provide valuable information about both historical and current evolutionary processes affecting a species. Population genetic studies of flying and migratory species such as bats and birds have traditionally shown minimal population substructure, characterized by high levels of gene flow between populations. In general, strongly substructured mammalian populations either are separated by non-traversable barriers or belong to terrestrial species with low dispersal abilities. Species with female philopatry (the tendency to remain in or consistently return to the natal territory) might show strong substructure when examined with maternally inherited mitochondrial DNA, but this substructure generally disappears when biparentally inherited markers are used, owing to male-mediated gene flow. Male-biased dispersal is considered typical for mammals, and philopatry in both sexes is rare. Here we show strong population substructure in a migratory bat species, and philopatry in both sexes, as indicated by concordance of nuclear and mtDNA findings. Furthermore, the genetic structure correlates with local biomes and differentiation in wing morphology. There is therefore a close correlation of genetic and morphological differentiation in sympatric subspecific populations of this mammalian species.
Retrospective investigation of dental records used in forensic identification cases.	The purpose of this paper was to investigate the standard of dental record keeping from a sample of forensic records retrieved from the Department of Oral Pathology and Oral Biology, School of Dentistry, University of Pretoria. Forty of the most recent cases in which ante-mortem information was required, were analysed. From the investigation it was clear that dentists did not comply with the requirements pertaining to dental charting and record keeping. A recommended code of abbreviations is proposed for use by dentists. It is concluded that until such time as charting is reinstituted as a legal requirement by the Health Professional Council of South Africa, dentists would not routinely chart their patients' dental status.
Development of a conceptual tool for the implementation of kangaroo mother care.	To develop a conceptual tool to assist healthcare workers and management in the implementation of a kangaroo mother care programme.
Analysis of RPGR in a South African family with X-linked retinitis pigmentosa: research and diagnostic implications.	Analysis of exon ORF15 of the RPGR gene has revealed a novel mutation in a South African family with X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP), which has implications for the rest of the family in terms of pre-symptomatic testing. The ability to test for this mutation will be beneficial for the accurate determination of carrier status in female relatives who may have been unaware of their risk before this study was performed. This work also highlights the need to be aware of the ramifications of mutation testing in what may appear to be small families. This is the first report of an RPGR ORF15 mutation in a South African family of mixed ancestry.
The natural history of hepatocellular carcinoma.	Prospective studies of patients with cirrhosis who are at risk for developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), have greatly improved our understanding of the natural history of this tumour. Despite many studies, the controversy of whether HCC originates from one or more than one clone of transformed liver cells is still unsettled. The natural history of HCC in many instances is an extension of that of the underlying cirrhosis, although the course of the tumour disease may vary from patient to patient and in different geographical areas. In Oriental and southern European patients with HCC, a longer time may elapse between diagnosis and death, than in African blacks. The information about tumour development in non-cirrhotic liver is scanty, due to the little known risk factors for this type of tumour which has impeded performing prospective cohort studies of high risk patients.
Alcohol consumption as a risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma in urban southern African blacks.	Our purpose was to ascertain whether alcohol abuse is a risk factor for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma in urban southern Africa blacks and, if so, to relate alcohol consumption to other possible risk factors such as persistent hepatitis-B-virus infection, smoking, male sex, in this subpopulation. A prospective, hospital-based, case-control format involving 101 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and 101 controls was used. The mean age of the patients was 53.7 +/- 1.85 years and the male:female ratio 3.2:1. An increased risk was found, but only in urban men over the age of 40 years who habitually drank more than 80 g of ethanol daily. The risk remained after adjusting for chronic hepatitis-B infection, smoking, and sex (odds ratio 4.4, 95% confidence interval 1.3 to 16.6; p = 0.003). Smoking proved not to be a risk factor, either alone or in concert with alcohol consumption. Hepatitis-B infection was confirmed as a major risk in younger men and in women, but in urban men over the age of 40 years alcohol abuse was a greater risk. Current hepatitis-B infection and alcohol abuse were additive risks.
Homozygous hereditary C3 deficiency due to a partial gene deletion.	The molecular mechanism of C3 deficiency in an Afrikaans patient with recurrent pyogenic infections was studied. Restriction enzyme analysis showed a gene deletion of 800 base pairs (bp) mapping to the alpha chain of C3. Amplification of genomic DNA, using the PCR, demonstrated that the deletion included exons 22 and 23 of the C3 gene. Truncated mRNA was shown in an Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B-cell line by PCR amplification of first-strand cDNA. A consequence of this deletion was that the RNA transcribed 3' to the deletion was out of frame, resulting in formation of a stop codon 19 bp downstream from the deletion. The molecular basis of the deletion was compatible with homologous recombination between two Alu sequences located in introns 21 and 23. An unrelated nonconsanguineous relative and two of a sample of 174 Afrikaans-speaking individuals were heterozygous carriers of the same gene deletion. The wide prevalence of this null allele in this population is probably due to the effects of a small founder population. The presence of this deletion in the C3 gene is not compatible with production of any functional C3, supporting the idea that study of such patients offers a valid model for understanding physiological activities of C3 in vivo in humans.
Sexual knowledge and behaviour in South African students: a case for prevention with focus on behaviour.	A study by James et al. revealed discrepancies between students' knowledge of sexuality and their behaviour.
Attitudes towards HIV-antibody testing and people with AIDS among university students in India, South Africa and United States.	Stigmatizing attitudes toward persons with AIDS (PWAs) may reduce people's willingness to have themselves tested for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)--thereby increasing the risk of transmission.
Chasing rainbow notions: enacting community psychology in the classroom and beyond in post-1994 South Africa.	This paper discusses tensions and contradictions experienced by a group of psychologists in post-1994 South Africa as we struggled to develop an MA program in community psychology. Situating our work within the history of the subdiscipline and the historical context confronting South Africans in the "wake of apartheid," we explore models of community psychology that informed praxis under apartheid and contemporary challenges confronting a country in transition. We discuss three tensions that inform the ongoing program development. These include (1) the construction and deconstruction of Western and indigenous knowledge systems; (2) assessment and intervention at multiple levels and from differing value perspectives; and (3) paradoxes experienced by a team of university-educated, primarily White academic staff committed to challenging oppression. We conclude our discussion by suggesting that, within these shifting sands of economic, political, cultural, and institutional change community psychology must, of necessity, resist rigid self-definition and seek to position itself as a "work-in-progress." We suggest that this seemingly anomalous self-description may be suggestive for other community psychologists-in-the-making facing similar challenges within the majority world.
Measurement of the equilibrium factor between radon and its progeny in the underground mining environment.	A scintillation cell and a portable radiation spectrometer for radon progeny were respectively employed to measure the concentration of radon and that of its progeny in the underground gold mine environment. The measured concentrations were subsequently used to calculate the equilibrium factor between radon and its progeny. The results obtained indicate that various locations underground have different values of radon concentration and ratios of radon concentration to its progeny concentration. The differences can be ascribed to variations in grades of uranium at different locations and to some environmental factors such as ventilation, particle concentration, and the deposition of the progeny on surfaces or on the atmospheric aerosol.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene polymorphisms in black South Africans and the association with preeclampsia.	A methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) polymorphism (1317T --> C) that occurs commonly in black African individuals prompted this study to establish whether this polymorphism, alone or in association with other MTHFR variants, is associated with preeclampsia in black South African women.
The psychiatric sequelae of human rights violations: a challenge for primary health care.	High rates of psychiatric morbidity have been documented in survivors of gross human rights abuses. Nevertheless, there has been relatively little focus on such patients in the context of primary care medicine. A sample of 134 survivors of gross human rights violations was assessed using a structured interview to determine exposure to violations and psychiatric status. In addition, psychiatric treatment history was probed with an open-ended interview. The study found that of the 95 of 134 (72%) participants who were assessed and found to have a current psychiatric diagnosis, only three were receiving treatment for such a disorder. Many subjects had presented to primary care clinics with somatic symptoms and had been prescribed benzodiazepines. Reasons for not reporting trauma or not seeking treatment included issues revolving around fear and mistrust, privacy and confidentiality, re-experiencing the trauma, and lack of awareness. Misdiagnosis and ineffective treatment of survivors of human rights abuses are likely to pose a significant drain on primary care resources. Accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment are important challenges in primary care settings.
Associations with Minspeak icons.	Although the Minspeak approach is used on communication devices worldwide, little research has been conducted on its applicability within specific cultural contexts. The impact that users' familiarity of symbols and associations can have on learnability necessitates more systematic research. This study was an investigation into the associations which young South African adults from a tertiary education institution make with selected Minspeak icons, used in Unity software. Associations with the 12 core icons of the UniChat program were elicited from 480 able-bodied tertiary education students, using a cueing questionnaire. Each participant completed one questionnaire on one icon, so that 40 response questionnaires were obtained per icon. The responses from the questionnaires were pruned and computerised. Two analyses were done from these data: Firstly, the percentage of common associations per icon was calculated, and secondly, the elicited associations were compared to the current Unity vocabulary on a word and conceptual level. The results indicate that some of the icons and their encoded vocabulary items might be used successfully in the South African context, while others need to be adapted to be locally relevant. The results emphasize that iconic encoding systems based on commercially available graphic representational systems cannot merely be imported to South Africa due to the multicultural and multilingual nature of the context.
Identification of iron-reducing Thermus strains as Thermus scotoductus.	Thermus strain SA-01, previously isolated from a deep (3.2 km) South African gold mine, is closely related to Thermus strains NMX2 A.1 and VI-7 (previously isolated from thermal springs in New Mexico, USA, and Portugal, respectively). Thermus strains SA-01 and NMX2 A.1 have also been shown previously to grow using nitrate, Fe(III), Mn(IV) or S(O) as terminal electron acceptors and to be capable of reducing Cr(VI), U(VI), Co(III), and the quinone-containing compound anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate. The objectives of this study were to determine the phylogenetic positions of the three known metal-reducing Thermus strains and to determine the phylogenetic significance of metal reduction within the genus Thermus. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S rDNA sequences, BOX PCR genomic fingerprinting, and DNA-DNA reassociation analyses indicated that these strains belong to the previously described genospecies T. scotoductus. The morphologies and lipid fatty acid profiles of these metal-reducing strains are consistent with their identification as T. scotoductus; however, the T. scotoductus strains tested in this study evinced a wide intraspecies variability in some other phenotypic traits, e.g., carbon substrate utilization and pigmentation. Iron reduction occurred in all strains of T. scotoductus tested except the mixotrophic, sulfur-oxidizing strain IT-7254. Thermus strains belonging to other species did not reduce Fe(III) to Fe(II) or reduced it only poorly.
Regulating transgenic crops: a comparative analysis of different regulatory processes.	Transgenic crops have the potential to benefit both developed and developing countries. To ensure safe crops to humans and the environment, a strong, but not stifling, regulatory system needs to be established and properly implemented. This paper explores some essential components of a strong regulatory structure for transgenic crops. First, five different regulatory systems for transgenic crops--the United States, the European Union, South Africa, Taiwan, and Argentina--are described and explained. The major components of those systems are then compared to components necessary to a regulatory system that ensures safe products and engenders public trust. The key components discussed include: (1) mandatory pre-market approval; (2) established safety standards; (3) transparency; (4) public participation; (5) use of outside scientists for expert scientific advice; (6) independent agency decisions; (7) post-approval activities; and (8) enforcement authority and resources. Although no one of the existing systems analyzed adequately achieves all the necessary components of a strong regulatory system, those systems serve as models for deciding which regulatory procedures should be emulated and which should be avoided. A mandatory pre-market approval system that applies established safety standards in procedures that are transparent and allows for public participation with no pre-conceived notions or biases will best achieve both safe products and consumer trust.
Genotyping and coalescent phylogenetic analysis of Pneumocystis jiroveci from South Africa.	Sequence analysis of Pneumocystis jiroveci internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions has become an important epidemiological tool. The objectives of the present study were to investigate sequence variations in the ITS1-5.8S ribosomal DNA (rDNA)-ITS2 regions; determine the P. jiroveci genotypes present in Cape Town, South Africa; and resolve the lineage evolution of the types by use of the coalescent theory. ITS regions were amplified from samples collected from 19 patients. PCR products were cloned, and four to five clones were sequenced from each specimen. Statistical parsimony was applied for coalescence-based network genotype analysis. The most prevalent type was Eg (14 of 19 patients, 33 of 83 clones), followed by Gg (4 of 19 patients, 7 of 83 clones), Eu (3 of 19 patients, 5 of 83 clones), and Gh (2 of 19 patients, 2 of 83 clones). Four new combinations (Eo, Je, Ge, and No), 11 new ITS1 sequences, and 13 new ITS2 sequences were identified. A new ITS2 type was detected in three patients and was designated type u. Coinfection appeared to be common, with 15 of 19 patients harboring more than one type and with up to six types per specimen. The resultant parsimony network identified Eg as the most probable ancestral haplotype and supported the occurrence of recombinational events within the population studied. Although the 5.8S rDNA region revealed only 13 clones containing one to two nucleotide polymorphisms, it may assist in defining types. Coalescent theory proposed that Eg is an ancestral type from which microevolutionary subtypes radiate.
The cost of HIV/AIDS to businesses in southern Africa.	Information on the potential costs of HIV/AIDS to the private sector is needed if companies are to be given a financial incentive to invest in prevention and treatment interventions.
Molecular insight into patterns of colony composition and paternity in the common mole-rat Cryptomys hottentotus hottentotus.	We report the discovery of intraspecific variation in both colony composition and patterns of paternity in two populations of the social common mole-rat Cryptomys hottentotus hottentotus. These two populations represent the mesic and arid habitat extremes of the species' broad ecological range in South Africa. Until recently colonies of the common mole-rat were thought to consist of familial groups whereby all colony members were the offspring of a monogamous reproductive pair. The remaining colony members were thought to forego reproduction until both social and ecological conditions favoured dispersal and opportunities for independent outbreeding. Results from genetic assignment tests using microsatellite markers indicate that while colony composition is dominated by familial groups, colonies within both populations included both adult and subadult foreign conspecifics. Analysis of parentage reveals that the social organization of C. h. hottentotus is not that of strict monogamy; paternity of offspring was not assigned consistently to the largest, most dominant male within the colony. Moreover, a number of significantly smaller males were found to sire offspring, suggesting a sneak-mating strategy by subordinate within-colony males. Extra-colony extra-pair paternity (ECP) was also found to characterize C. h. hottentotus colonies, occurring with similar frequencies in both habitats. Both dominant established breeding males and subordinate males were identified as siring young in nonsource colonies. Furthermore, established breeding males were found to sire extra-colony young in the same season as siring young within their source colonies. We discuss the significance of these results within the context of the divergent ecological regimes characterizing the two sites and observe that our results revisit the accuracy of using behavioural and morphological characters, which have structured the basis of our understanding of the behavioural ecology of this species, as indicators of breeding status in mark-recapture studies.
Rickettsia mongolotimonae infection in South Africa.	We report the first laboratory-confirmed case of Rickettsia mongolotimonae infection in Africa. The patient sought treatment for an eschar on his toe; lymphangitis, severe headaches, and fever subsequently developed. After a regimen of doxycycline, symptoms rapidly resolved. R. mongolotimonae infection was diagnosed retrospectively by serologic tests and molecular-based detection of the organism in biopsy specimens of eschar material.
Neonatal gastric perforation.	Gastric perforation in neonates is a catastrophe associated with high morbidity. Most are due to underlying primary pathology.
Nitroimidazole resistance genes (nimB) in anaerobic Gram-positive cocci (previously Peptostreptococcus spp.).	To investigate metronidazole resistance and the prevalence of nitroimidazole (nim) genes in clinically isolated anaerobic Gram-positive cocci.
Media interventions to increase cervical screening uptake in South Africa: an evaluation study of effectiveness.	Successful cervical cancer prevention depends on reaching, screening and treating women with pre-invasive disease. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of two media interventions-a photo-comic and a radio-drama-in increasing cervical screening uptake. A randomized controlled trial compared a photo-comic on cervical cancer screening with a placebo comic. One month after the comics were distributed a radio-drama paralleling the photo-comic was broadcast on the community radio station and a retrospective evaluation was carried out. The trial was set in Khayelitsha, a peri-urban squatter community near Cape Town, South Africa. A random sample consisted of 658 women between the ages of 35 and 65 years, from a stratified sample of census areas. The main outcome measure was self-reported cervical screening uptake 6 months after distribution of the comics. Seven percent (18 of 269) of women who received the intervention photo-comic reported cervical screening during the 6 months follow-up, compared with 6% (25 of 389) of controls (P = 0.89). Women who recalled hearing the radio-drama were more likely to report attending screening (nine of 53, 17%) than those who did not (19 of 429, 4%; P < 0.001). We conclude that the photo-comic was ineffective in increasing cervical screening uptake in this population. The radio-drama may have had more impact, but only a minority of women recalled being exposed to it. Future research must concentrate not only on achieving high level of exposure to health messages, but also on investigating the links between exposure and action.
A pilot study of once-daily antiretroviral therapy integrated with tuberculosis directly observed therapy in a resource-limited setting.	To determine the feasibility and effectiveness of integrating highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) into existing tuberculosis directly observed therapy (TB/DOT) programs, we performed a pilot study in an urban TB clinic in South Africa. Patients with smear-positive pulmonary TB were offered HIV counseling and testing. Twenty HIV-positive patients received once-daily didanosine (400 mg) plus lamivudine (300 mg) plus efavirenz (600 mg) administered concomitantly with standard TB therapy Monday to Friday and self-administered on weekends. After completing TB therapy, patients were referred to an HIV clinic for continued treatment. At baseline, patients had a mean CD4 count of 230 cells/mm(3) (range: 24-499 cells/mm(3)) and a mean viral load of 5.75 log(10) (range: 3.81-7.53 log(10)). Seventeen completed combined standard TB and HIV therapy; 16 of 20 (80%) patients enrolled and 15 of 17 (88%) patients completing standard TB therapy achieved a viral load <50 copies/mL and mean CD4 count increase of 148 cells/mm(3). TB was cured in 17 of 20 (85%) enrolled patients and 17 of 19 (89%) patients with drug-sensitive TB. Treatment was well tolerated, with minimal gastrointestinal, hepatic, skin, or neurologic toxicity. The project was well accepted and integrated into the daily TB clinic functions. This pilot study demonstrates that TB/DOT programs can be feasible and effective sites for HIV identification and the introduction and monitoring of a once-daily HAART regimen in resource-limited settings.
Expression of the SLC11A1 (NRAMP1) 5'-(GT)n repeat: opposite effect in the presence of -237C-->T.	Association of various autoimmune and infectious diseases with genetic variation in the solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1) gene, formerly known as the natural resistance-associated macrophage protein 1 (NRAMP1) gene, is in accordance with its role in iron metabolism and immune function. In this investigation, in vitro studies were performed to determine whether allelic variants in the promoter region of the gene are affected by iron loading, thereby leading to differential expression of SLC11A1. Constructs containing five different SLC11A1 5'-(GT)n polymorphic alleles identified in the South African population (alleles 2, 3, 5, 8, and 9) and a C to T point mutation at nucleotide position -237, both in the absence and presence of allele 3, were cloned into the pGL2-Basic luciferase-reporter vector and transfected into U937 and THP-1 cells. Addition of exogenous stimuli, including interferon-gamma, bacterial lipopolysaccharide, and ferric ammonium citrate, demonstrated significant differences in the ability of these alleles to regulate gene expression. Striking differences were obtained upon iron loading, with allele 3 showing opposite effects in the presence or absence of promoter polymorphism -237C-->T. Our findings provide direct evidence that this promoter polymorphism is functional and support the hypothesis that iron dysregulation mediated by allelic effects of SLC11A1 underlies disease susceptibility linked to infectious and autoimmune conditions.
Traditional beliefs about the cause of AIDS and AIDS-related stigma in South Africa.	AIDS-related stigmas are pervasive in some segments of South African society and stigmas can impede efforts to promote voluntary counselling and testing and other HIV-AIDS prevention efforts. The current study examined associations among the belief that AIDS is caused by spirits and supernatural forces, AIDS-related knowledge and AIDS-related stigmas. A street intercept survey with 487 men and women living in a Black township in Cape Town, South Africa showed that 11% (n=54) believed that AIDS is caused by spirits and supernatural forces, 21% (n=105) were unsure if AIDS is caused by spirits and the supernatural, and 68% (n=355) did not believe that AIDS is caused by spirits and supernatural forces. Multiple logistic regression analyses controlling for participant age, gender, years of education and survey venue showed that people who believed HIV-AIDS is caused by spirits and the supernatural demonstrated significantly more misinformation about AIDS and were significantly more likely to endorse repulsion and social sanction stigmatizing beliefs against people living with HIV-AIDS. However, nearly all associations between beliefs that AIDS is caused by spirits and AIDS stigmas were non-significant when logistic regressions were repeated with AIDS-related knowledge included as a control variable. This finding suggests that relationships between traditional beliefs about the cause of HIV-AIDS and AIDS stigmas are mediated by AIDS-related knowledge. AIDS education efforts are urgently needed to reach people who hold traditional beliefs about AIDS to remedy AIDS stigmas.
Molecular detection of GES-2 extended spectrum Beta-lactamase producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Pretoria, South Africa.	Screening for and detection of the novel extended spectrum Beta-lactamase (ESBL), GES-2 produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa remains a problem in the clinical microbiology laboratory. This study aimed to compare the normally used ESBL screening agent ceftazidime, with molecular detection, to demonstrate the presence of GES-2 ESBL production in clinical isolates of P. aeruginosa. Ceftazidime was found unreliable as an ESBL screening agent, with a specificity of 34.4%, when National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards resistance criteria for P. aeruginosa were employed. An improved PCR detection method was devised, that amplified a 371 bp segment of bla(GES-2). This should lead to more cost-effective DNA sequencing and sequence interpretation in the laboratory.
Introduction: the Cape Doctor in the nineteenth century.	The Cape Doctor, named after the profession as well as the wind that sweeps the Cape Peninsula of dangerous miasmas, is a social history of medicine, seeking to place formal western medicine within its political, social and economic context. Besides Shula Marks' study of South African nurses, Divided Sisterhood, no previous work has brought such a breadth of material about South Africa's medical past under the framework of social history. This work provides clear evidence of the way in which the Cape medical profession excluded all but a few women and black practitioners, and discriminated along lines of race, class and gender in their practice, but it also moves beyond the classic revisionist tradition (documenting the emergence of a society divided along lines of race and gender) by providing examples of cultural crossover and medical pluralism.
The Cape doctor and the broader medical market, 1800-1850.	Regularly trained and licensed Cape doctors in the nineteenth century operated within a medical market which accommodated other suppliers of medical care, both competing and complementary. These 'alternative practitioners' included shopkeepers selling patent medicines, apothecaries, chemists and midwives, Muslim folk healers and indigenous Khoisan or African healers. Licensed doctors also provided medical services for a wide variety of clients - white settlers, their slaves, servants, free blacks and indigenes, usually in decreasing order of frequency. Most of these patients probably consulted alternative practitioners as well, often in preference to the Western-trained doctor. Cape doctors distanced themselves very firmly from alternative healers and folk medical traditions in order to establish their niche within the medical market and to secure state support by creating a strong profession.
Medical gentlemen and the process of professionalisation before 1860.	In the early-nineteenth century, the professionalisation of medicine at the Cape began in earnest. Although there were key legislative and professional developments in this period, the notion, outlined in Burrows' seminal work on South African medical history, that it was a 'golden' age of medical reform underplays the extent of intra-professional differentiation and draws attention away from the politics of professional regulation at the Cape. The period was a time of inter- and intra-professional conflict as doctors, druggists and shopkeepers competed to sell drugs and medical advice and it spawned a profession that was deeply divided. In spite of early, general and monopolistic legislation passed in 1807, the process of medical professionalisation at the Cape was very uneven, cementing an intra-professional distinction between doctors in Cape Town and doctors or druggists in the rest of the colony. The special status of Cape Town provided the bedrock for an urban-rural divide in professional regulation and services still present in South Africa today.
Home taught for abroad: the training of the Cape doctor, 1807-1910.	Given that the Cape (or for that matter South Africa) did not have a full medical school until 1920, all Cape doctors before then were trained outside of Africa, the vast majority in Britain and Continental Europe. Accordingly, this chapter examines the kind of training they received in these countries, as this fundamentally shaped the kind of medicine they subsequently practised at the Cape. It concludes by exploring why medical training was so slow to develop at the Cape, and what the long-term effects of this were on these medical schools and their curricula.
Opportunities outside private practice before 1860.	This chapter discusses the restrictions and opportunities which salaried employment offered Cape doctors in the pay of government and charitable organisations during the first two thirds of the nineteenth century. Although Cape doctors often acted as agents of the colonial state there were many nuances within this relationship. While military doctors played an important role in the profession during the first few decades of the century, by the 1840s civilian doctors were beginning to assert greater influence in Cape Town, if not yet in the Eastern Cape. Hospital posts and an expanding network of charitable organisations and government-funded district surgeoncies provided part-time employment for some doctors throughout the colony. This helped urban-based doctors to sustain practices and encouraged more doctors to practice in the smaller country towns serving large farming areas.
Medical practice in the Eastern Cape.	The Eastern Cape developed slightly different medical traditions from the Western Cape. The majority Xhosa population had healing practices of their own which they shared only partly with the Khoi, while Boer medical practice had become more remote from modern Western medicine. Missionary medicine was relatively undeveloped in this period but through the Grey Hospital the Governor, Sir George Grey, promoted Western medicine amongst Africans. In this frontier territory, British military doctors encouraged early scientific societies and, in the absence of other medical men, treated civilians both black and white. The advent of the British settlers after 1820 placed a strongly British stamp on the practice of Eastern Cape medicine.
'Regularly licensed and properly educated practitioners': professionalisation 1860-1910.	This chapter explores the later professionalisation of medicine at the Cape, particularly after the discovery of diamonds and gold, when the number of doctors increased. As the demand for an improved public health system grew, and the Colonial Medical Committee was unable to cope with the more complex demands of the colony, legislation was gradually set in place to transform the practice of medicine. This legislation included a Public Health Act, improved censuses, the registration of births and deaths, and a more effective registration of nurses as well as doctors and pharmacists. By the time the Cape entered the Union in 1910, it possessed modern, well-organised medical structures.
Mineral wealth and medical opportunity.	With the increase in population and in colonial revenues after the discovery of diamonds and gold in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, public and private hospitals proliferated, particularly in larger centres such as Cape Town. The numbers of practitioners engaged in public health also increased. Perhaps as important, doctors were now accepted as skilled professionals and remunerated accordingly. At the same time there was also a greater demand for doctors in the employment of business and industry, particularly the insurance industry and the railways. These opportunities for salaried employment somewhat reduced doctors' professional autonomy and occasionally encouraged intra-professional squabbles. Yet they also provided a springboard for general professional regulation, growing professional status in specialisms like psychiatry, and a solid base for the economic survival of country doctors.
Making a medical living: the economics of medical practice in the Cape c.1860-1910.	The economics of colonial medicine have been largely neglected. This chapter shall seek first to give an overview of the medical market in the Cape during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, before turning to a fuller exploration of the nature of private and public practice, and their inter-relationship. The chapter will end with a case study of Dr William Darley-Hartley whose life exemplified some typical features of life in the Cape medical profession at this time.
The Cape doctor 1807-1910: perspectives.	This chapter contrasts the Cape doctor in 1807 and in 1910, and finds that, in a whole variety of ways, the differences between the two were not of degree but of kind. Underlying this sea-change was the germ revolution of the late Victorian era, which transformed the Cape doctor out of all recognition, thereby laying important foundations for the development of the twentieth-century South African doctor.
Habitat-dependent transmission of male advertisement calls in bladder grasshoppers (Orthoptera; Pneumoridae).	It has been hypothesized that the physical properties of the environment exert selection pressure on long-range acoustic communication signals to match the local habitat by promoting signal characteristics that minimize excess attenuation and distortion. We tested this in a unique family of bladder grasshoppers notable for producing a signal with a 2 km maximum transmission distance. In direct performance comparisons, male advertisement calls of seven species were broadcast through four vegetation biomes--forest, fynbos, savanna and succulent karoo. The calls of species native to forest and fynbos biomes propagated with lower levels of distortion over distance in their respective habitats relative to those of non-native species, while fynbos species also performed best in the remaining two habitats. In addition, both forest and fynbos species had low levels of signal attenuation over distance in all environments. The fynbos biome was characterized by high inconsistency in signal degradation, while the forest biome had the highest levels of environmental noise. Innate habitat characteristics, leading to comparatively limited acoustic communication distances in the forest and fynbos relative to the savanna and succulent karoo, may therefore explain the need for a higher quality of signal transmission in grasshoppers inhabiting the former two environments.
Mannan-binding lectin and RSV lower respiratory tract infection leading to hospitalization in children: a case-control study from Soweto, South Africa.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most important microbiological cause of lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) in infants. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL) is believed to play a major protective role in the vulnerable period in infancy where the maternal antibodies have been catabolized, and the adaptive immune system has not yet matured. Mutations in the promoter region and in exon 1 of the gene-encoding MBL result in low serum levels of MBL. MBL deficiency is the most common immunodeficiency on the African Continent with frequencies of the variant alleles up to 0.29. We investigated whether MBL deficiency has an impact on the hospitalization for LRTI caused by RSV in infants from Soweto, South Africa. The cases were ethnic black Africans identified through surveillance for RSV-LRTI at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, Soweto, and the controls were sampled from four immunization clinics in the area. Fifty-five cases and 113 age- and sex-matched controls were identified. Seventy-six per cent were under 6 months of age, and 42% (n = 23) were under 3 months of age. No association was found between low levels of MBL or carriage of variant alleles and LRTI caused by RSV, odds ratio (OR) 1.00 (CI 0.99-1.03) and OR 1.24 (0.73-2.12). We did not find support for the hypothesis that MBL deficiency leads to the hospitalization for LRTI caused by RSV.
Nine-locus Y-chromosome STR profiling of Caucasian and Xhosa populations from Cape Town, South Africa.	Y-chromosome STR markers are not widely used in forensic case work in South Africa. To begin assessing the forensic value of these markers in South Africa, samples were collected from 100 English-speaking Caucasian males and 99 Xhosa males, living in the Cape Town metropolitan area. Allele and haplotype frequencies were determined for nine Y-chromosome STR loci (DYS19, DYS389-I, DYS389-II, DYS390, DYS391, DYS392, DYS393, and the duplicated locus DYS385). Unique haplotypes were obtained for 47 Xhosa males and 66 Caucasians.
Drug in four countries meet U.S. standards.	Antiretroviral drugs from four developing countries have been found to meet United States Pharmacopoeia standards for the active drug amount listed on the label, according to a study in the May 1 Clinical Infectious Diseases.
Ultrasound bone measurements in pre-adolescent girls: interaction between ethnicity and lifestyle factors.	We obtained calcaneal ultrasound measurements in 198 girls between 7.5 and 11.7 y of age, representing ethnic groups (black [n = 80], white [n = 41], mixed ancestral origin [n = 77]) in South Africa.
Guideline for the management of upper respiratory tract infections.	Inappropriate use of antibiotics for upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs), many of which are viral, adds to the burden of antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance is increasing in Streptococcus pneumoniae, responsible for most cases of acute otitis media (AOM) and acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS).
Colony structure and parentage in wild colonies of co-operatively breeding Damaraland mole-rats suggest incest avoidance alone may not maintain reproductive skew.	Colonies of co-operatively breeding African mole-rats have traditionally been thought to be composed of a single breeding female, one or two breeding males, and their offspring. In the naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus glaber), the occurrence of facultative inbreeding means incest avoidance cannot prevent reproduction in subordinate group members, and physiological suppression of reproductive function by the breeding female occurs in both sexes. In contrast, previous studies of captive colonies of the Damaraland mole-rat (Cryptomys damarensis) suggest that breeding within a colony is restricted to a single breeding pair, simply because all other colony members are highly related (first- or second-order relatives) and this species is an obligate outbreeder. Using microsatellite markers, we investigated parentage and colony composition in 18 wild Damaraland mole-rat colonies to determine whether inbreeding avoidance alone can explain the high levels of reproductive skew in this species. Multiple and unidentified paternity was widespread within colonies and immigrants of both sexes were regularly identified. Unrelated, opposite-sex nonbreeders were found coexisting in two colonies. These results suggest that, in the wild, conditions exist where nonreproductive females can come into contact with unrelated males, even when they do not disperse from their natal colony. Inbreeding avoidance alone is therefore insufficient to maintain the high levels of reproductive skew identified in this species suggesting that the breeding female somehow suppresses the reproductive function in nonbreeding females.
Long-term antibody levels and booster responses in South African children immunized with nonavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.	Children who had initially received three doses of either a nonavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine containing serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F, and 23F or placebo at 6, 10, and 14 weeks of age were bled at 9 and 18 months for determination of antibody concentrations. The children were then randomized to receive a booster dose of either the 9-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine or a 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine and antibody levels determined 1 month later. At 9 months, the geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) were significantly higher for all vaccine serotypes in vaccinated children compared with controls (means varied from 0.49 microg/ml for serotype 4 to 2.37 microg/ml for serotype 14). At 18 months, antibody concentrations remained significantly higher in vaccinated children (means varied from 0.19 microg/ml for serotype 4 to 1.1 microg/ml for serotype 14). In children who had received conjugate vaccine in infancy, the conjugate vaccine at 18 months produced a significant booster response for serotypes 1, 6B, 14, 19F, and 23F (means varied from 2.74 microg/ml for serotype 19F to 15.52 microg/ml for serotype 6B) and produced a comparable response to a first dose of conjugate at this age for serotypes 4, 5, 9V, and 18C. Boosting at 18 months with polysaccharide vaccine produced higher antibody concentrations to all serotypes in children who had previously received conjugate vaccine compared to children who had not received the conjugate vaccine in infancy. In conclusion, the 9-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine given in infancy elicits significant and long-lasting antibody responses which can be boosted with either the conjugate or polysaccharide vaccines.
Use of sedation to relieve refractory symptoms in dying patients.	To document the use of sedation for refractory symptoms in patients admitted to an independent palliative care unit.
Physician education programme improves quality of diabetes care.	Diabetes mellitus is a common chronic disease needing long-term glycaemic control to prevent complications. Guidelines are available for achievement of optimal glycaemic control, but these are seldom properly instituted.
Medical pluralism in action? A case study of community pharmacies in Johannesburg, South Africa.	The main aim of this study was to examine whether, and to what extent, community pharmacies have become sites for the practice of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) as an example of "medical pluralism."
The UNESCO biosphere reserve concept as a tool for urban sustainability: the CUBES Cape Town case study.	The Cape Town Case Study (CTCS) was a multi-institutional collaborative project initiated by CUBES, a knowledge networking initiative of UNESCO's Ecological Sciences Division and the Earth Institute at Columbia University. Cape Town was selected as a CUBES site on the basis of its high biological and cultural significance, together with its demonstrated leadership in promoting urban sustainability. The CTCS was conducted by the Cape Town Urban Biosphere Group, a cross-disciplinary group of specialists drawn from national, provincial, municipal, and civil society institutions, mandated to examine the potential value of the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve concept as a tool for environmental management, social inclusion, and poverty alleviation in Cape Town. This article provides a contextualization of the CTCS and its collaborative process. It also reviews the biosphere reserve concept relative to urban sustainability objectives and proposes a more functional application of that concept in an urban context. A detailed analysis of key initiatives at the interface of conservation and poverty alleviation is provided in table format. Drawing on an examination of successful sustainability initiatives in Cape Town, specific recommendations are made for future application of the biosphere reserve concept in an urban context, as well as a model by which urban areas might affiliate with the UNESCO World Network of Biosphere Reserves, and criteria for such affiliation.
Comparison between Russian and South African Karakul sheep based on blood group markers.	Gene frequencies at 10 blood polymorphic loci have been used to compare Karakuls from Uzbekistan, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with South African Karakuls and to evaluate the influence of local Blackhead Persian sheep on the genetic composition of South African Karakuls. The data clearly show that genetic difference between the 2 populations of Karakuls is significant. The proportion of Blackhead Persian genes in South African Karakuls is estimated to be 0.2745, to which a certain degree of gene flow from other fat-tailed sheep has possibly to be added.
Workmens' compensation and byssinosis in South Africa: a review of 32 cases.	Byssinosis has been compensable in the Republic of South Africa (RSA) since 1973. The legal and administrative provisions for byssinosis compensation are reviewed. A series of 32 cases of presumed byssinosis was submitted to the compensation authorities by the authors. Identical reports were submitted to an independent medical panel. The findings and outcomes in these cases are presented and compared. Seventeen of the 32 claims initially received compensation and four were subsequently accepted following appeals. Analysis of the medical basis of decision making indicated that seven claims were refused and at least four had their awards reduced as a consequence of inconsistent decisions. Arguable decisions resulted in five claims being refused and one award being reduced. Our experience illustrates problems inherent in the compensation system in South Africa. Initiation of a claim is expensive relative to wages in the industry, and awards are low since they are linked to wages (mean $60.47 per week). Processing of a claim took a mean of 13.8 months, while appeals for refusal to compensate took a further 29.8 months. It is argued that consensus medical definitions of compensable occupational disease should be used routinely and that provision must be made to facilitate entry of claimants into the compensation system.
Cold tolerance of Littorinidae from southern Africa: intertidal snails are not constrained to freeze tolerance.	All intertidal gastropods for which cold tolerance strategies have been assessed have been shown to be freeze tolerant. Thus, freeze tolerance is considered an adaptation to the intertidal environment. We investigated the cold tolerance strategies of three species of subtropical and temperate snails (Gastropoda: Littorinidae) to determine whether this group is phylogenetically constrained to freeze tolerance. We exposed 'dry' acclimated and 'wet' rehydrated snails to low temperatures to determine temperature of crystallisation (Tc), lower lethal temperature and LT(50) and to examine the relationship between ice formation and mortality. Tc was lowest in dry Afrolittorina knysnaensis (-13.6+/-0.4 degrees C), followed by dry Echinolittorina natalensis (-10.9+/-0.2 degrees C) and wet A. knysnaensis (-10.2+/-0.2 degrees C) . The Tc of both A. knysnaensis and E. natalensis increased with rehydration, whereas Tc of dry and wet Afrolittorina africana did not differ (-9.6+/-0.2 and -9.0+/-0.2 degrees C respectively). Wet snails of all species exhibited no or low survival of inoculative freezing, whereas dry individuals of A. knysnaensis could survive subzero temperatures above -8 degrees C when freezing was inoculated with ice . In the absence of external ice, Afrolittorina knysnaensis employs a freeze-avoidance strategy of cold tolerance, the first time this has been reported for an intertidal snail, indicating that there is no family-level phylogenetic constraint to freeze tolerance. Echinolittorina natalensis and A. africana both showed pre-freeze mortality and survival of some internal ice formation, but were not cold hardy in any strict sense.
Double standards: the multinational asbestos industry and asbestos-related disease in South Africa.	This study documents and contrasts the development of knowledge about asbestos-related disease (ARD) in South Africa and the United Kingdom. It also contributes to the globalization debate by exploring corporate decision-making in a multinational industry. Between the 1930s and 1960s, the leading U.K. asbestos companies developed a sophisticated knowledge of ARD, though in South Africa, where the leading companies such as Turner & Newall and Cape Asbestos owned mines, there was little attempt to apply this knowledge. Asbestos mines (and their environments) in South Africa were uniquely dusty and ARD was rife. Social and political factors in South Africa, especially apartheid, allowed these companies to apply double standards, even after 1960 when the much more serious hazard of mesothelioma was identified. This shows the need for greater regulation of multinationals. Because of the lack of such regulation in the early 1960s, an opportunity was lost to prevent the current high morbidity and mortality of ARD both in South Africa and worldwide.
Further evidence to show population specificity of discriminant function equations for sex determination using the talus of South African blacks.	Several studies have shown that osteometric differences exist between different population groups. Thus, discriminant function equations derived for the determination of sex from skeletal elements are population specific. In a previous study, the authors derived such equations from nine measurements of the talus of South African whites with high levels of average accuracies. The validity of some of the equations was tested on data collected from a South African black sample that consisted of 120 tali, equally distributed by sex, derived from the Raymond A. Dart Collection of Human Skeletons. The average accuracies dropped significantly. This necessitated the derivation of new equations for the South African black population and the average accuracies obtained ranged between 80% and 89%. The validity of the equations derived from the present study was tested using the leave-one-out classification and two independent samples (1 and 2). The applicability of the equations with very high classification rate from the present study was tested on Independent sample 1 of 10 white tali with poor results. The result of the validity of these equations on an Independent sample 2 of 10 black tali revealed acceptably high average accuracies in correct classification thereby supporting earlier observations on population specificity of discriminant function equations.
Antibacterial activity of naphthoquinones and triterpenoids from Euclea natalensis root bark.	Phytochemical studies of an ethanolic extract of Euclea natalensis root bark afforded two new compounds, octahydroeuclein (1) and 20(29)-lupene-3 beta-isoferulate (2), in addition to three known compounds, shinanolone (3), lupeol, and betulin. The chemical structures of 1 and 2 were determined by spectroscopic means. Shinanolone (3) showed inhibitory activity against Gram-positive bacterial strains and a drug-sensitive strain of Mycobacterium tuberculosis at a concentration of 0.1 mg/mL.
Recent paleoanthropological excavations of in situ deposits at Makapansgat, South Africa--a first report.	The Makapansgat Limeworks is a significant Pliocene site both for its sample of 35 hominin fossils as well as its wealth of fossil fauna. The lithological and paleontological successions reveal local environmental changes that are important for understanding the context of hominin evolution in southern Africa. Yet most of the site's fossils were found in dumps left behind by quarry operations, and the paleoecological interpretations rest upon debatable assumptions about the original fossil provenience. We have recently initiated systematic paleoanthropological excavations at Makapansgat to recover well provenanced fossils in order to: 1) assess whether faunal successions are discernable in the Makapansgat sequence; 2) assist environmental interpretations of the site; 3) and potentially recover the oldest hominins in South Africa, roughly coincident with Australopithecus afarensis in East Africa. This paper presents a summary of our current paleoenvironmental research at the Limeworks and preliminary results of ongoing in situ excavations.
Where the action is: monitoring local trends in sexual behaviour.	To assess the role in an overall monitoring strategy of the PLACE method of estimating local trends in sexual behaviour among individuals at social venues in areas at increased risk of HIV transmission.
Diversity of nontuberculoid Mycobacterium species in biofilms of urban and semiurban drinking water distribution systems.	Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are ubiquitous and have been isolated from a variety of environmental sources, including water. Various NTM were isolated from biofilms in drinking water distribution systems in two urban and two semiurban areas in South Africa. Most of the isolates belonged to opportunistic pathogenic species of the NTM group, but none belonged to the Mycobacterium avium complex.
Parasites of South African wildlife. XVIII. Cooperia pigachei n. sp. (Nematoda: Cooperiidae) from the mountain reedbuck, Redunca fulvorufula (Afzelius, 1815).	A new species of Cooperia, for which the name Cooperia pigachei n. sp. is proposed, was recovered from a mountain reedbuck, Redunca fulvorufula, from the Sterkfontein Dam Nature Reserve, Free State Province, and is described and illustrated. It is close to Cooperia neitzi Mönnig, 1932 and the South African race of Cooperia rotundispiculum in having more than 14 longitudinal cuticular ridges and in that the lateral cervical synlophe is of the closed type. The new species differs from all the other species of the genus in that the lateral branches of the dorsal ray are large and T-shaped. The spicules are robust, over 0.3 mm long and have large, curved shoes on their tips.
Towards the establishment and standardization of a veterinary antimicrobial resistance surveillance and monitoring programme in South Africa.	The objective of this study was to establish a repeatable, standardized laboratory procedure for monitoring the development of antimicrobial resistance in bacteria isolated from animals and food of animal origin in South Africa, with reagents prepared in-house. The emergence of resistance and the spread of resistant bacteria can be limited by implementing a veterinary antimicrobial drug policy, in which inter alia systematic monitoring and prudent use play essential roles. The bacteria included in this study represented three different categories, namely zoonotic bacteria (Salmonella), indicator bacteria (Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium) and veterinary pathogens (Mannheimia haemolytica). Thirty isolates of each species were collected with the aim of standardizing the laboratory methodology for a future national veterinary surveillance and monitoring programme. Susceptibility to ten selected antimicrobial drugs was determined by means of minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) using the microdilution method. The method according to the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards was used as the standard. Multi-well plates containing varying dilutions of antimicrobial drugs and prepared in-house for MIC determinations, yielded repeatable results. Storage of plates for 2 months at -70 degrees C did not influence results meaningfully. Within this limited sample of bacteria, MIC results did not indicate meaningful resistance against any of the ten selected antimicrobial drugs. The findings of the study will be used to establish a national veterinary antimicrobial resistance surveillance and monitoring programme in South Africa. To allow for international comparison of data, harmonisation of the surveillance and monitoring programme in accordance with global trends is encouraged. Ideally it should be combined with a programme monitoring the quantities of antimicrobial drugs used. The aim is to contribute to slowing down the emergence of resistance and the problems associated with this phenomenon by means of the rational use of antimicrobial drugs.
Relationship between self reporting of past history of anti-tuberculosis treatment and radiographic findings in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.	A referral hospital for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) patients in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
Novel 180- and 480-base-pair insertions in African and African-American strains of Helicobacter pylori.	Helicobacter pylori is a genetically diverse bacterial species that chronically infects human stomachs and sometimes causes severe gastroduodenal disease. Studies of polymorphic DNA sequences can suggest geographic origins of individual strains. Here, we describe a 180-bp insertion (ins180), which is just after the translation stop of a gene of unknown function, near the promoter of jhp0152-jhp0151 two-component signal transduction genes in strain J99, and absent from this site in strain 26695. This ins180 insertion was found in 9 of 9 Gambian (West African), 9 of 20 (45%) South African, and 9 of 40 (23%) Spanish strains but in only 2 of 20 (10%) North American strains and none of 20 Lithuanian, 20 Indian, and 20 Japanese strains. Four South African isolates that lacked ins180 and that belonged to an unusual outlier group contained a 480-bp insertion at this site (ins480), whereas none of 181 other strains screened contained ins480. In further tests 56% (10 of 18) of strains from African Americans but only 17% (3 of 18) of strains from Caucasian Americans carried ins180 (P < 0.05). Thus, the H. pylori strains of modern African Americans seem to retain traces of African roots, despite the multiple generations since their ancestors were taken from West Africa. Fragmentary ins180-like sequences were found at numerous sites in H. pylori genomes, always between genes. Such sequences might affect regulation of transcription and could facilitate genome rearrangement by homologous recombination. Apparent differences between African-American and Caucasian-American H. pylori gene pools may bear on our understanding of H. pylori transmission and disease outcome.
Description of a new actinosporean type from South African freshwaters.	Actinospore infection of oligochaetes collected from the mud of 2 freshwater biotopes in South Africa was studied. Using the 'cell-well plate method', a new aurantiactinomyxon type was found in 1.1% of the examined Branchiura sowerbyi oligochaete specimens from the Rietvlei River, north of Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa. In 1.5% of B. sowerbyi collected in a pond (Padda Dam), near the Rand Afrikaans University, Johannesburg, the same aurantiactinomyxon type was found. Infected oligochaetes were found only after collection and no actinosporean release was recorded in Branchiura specimens kept alive for several weeks. Actinospore infection showed a high intensity in oligochaetes in both positive cases. Until now, no actinosporean stages of myxosporeans have been described from South Africa. The aurantiactinospore type presented in this communication differs from the known types already described in the literature.
Adherence to antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected adults in Soweto, South Africa.	Little is known about achievable levels of antiretroviral treatment (ART) adherence in resource-limited settings. We conducted a cross-sectional study of adherence among patients at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital's Adult HIV Clinic in Soweto, South Africa. Adherence was assessed using a 1-month, self-report questionnaire and was calculated as a ratio of doses taken to doses prescribed. The 66 patients studied had a mean age of 36.1 years, a median duration of ART use of 18 months, and an overall baseline median CD4(+) cell count of 200/mm(3) (IQR: 114-364). The adherence reported by these patients for the previous month was >95% for 58 patients (88%), 90-95% for 6 (9%) and, < 90% for 2 (3%). The main reasons given for missing doses were being away from home (30%), difficulty with the dosing schedules (23%), and running out of pills (12%). Adherence decreased considerably with fear of being stigmatized by the sexual partner (OR = 0.13 95%, CI 0.02-0.70). Plasma HIV RNA levels were <400 copies/ml in the majority of patients (73% of those with adherence >95% and 88% of patients with < or =95% adherence) and the overall median CD4(+) cell count rose to 324/mm(3) (IQR: 193-510). High adherence and viral suppression are achievable for a significant proportion of HIV-infected patients taking ART in a resource-limited area such as Soweto, South Africa. Strategies to maximize adherence in this setting should emphasize ready access to affordable and simple ART regimens, as well as HIV education programs to help increase awareness and decrease disease stigmatization.
Prevalence of alcohol use in a rural South African community.	Among a community sample of 801 rural South Africans, 22.2% of men and 5.0% of women were classified as high-risk drinkers and 3.3% as with probable alcohol dependence.
Ethical and legal controversies in cloning for biomedical research--a South African perspective.	Therapeutic embryonic stem cell research raises a number of ethical and legal issues. The promised benefits are new and important knowledge of human embryological development, gene action, and the production of transplantable tissue and organs that could be effective in reversing or curing currently irreversible disease processes. However, this research involves the deliberate production, use, and ultimate destruction of cloned embryos, hence re-awakening the debate on the moral status of the embryo. Other moral anxieties include the possibility that women (as donors of ova) would be exploited, that this research would land on the slippery slope of reproductive cloning, and that promises made too early could lead to false hope among sick patients. It also raises the question of intellectual and actual property rights in human cell lines and the techniques by which they are produced. Review of legal systems internationally reveals that there is no global consensus on therapeutic embryonic stem cell research. Legal considerations are very much influenced by ethical deliberations on the moral status of the embryo. The South African parliament is promulgating legislation permitting therapeutic cloning, thereby demonstrating a commitment by the state to act in the best interests of patients and of regenerative medicine.
Parental perception of neonatal intensive care in public sector hospitals in South Africa.	Little is known about parental experience and decision making with regard to premature infants requiring intensive care in developing countries. We undertook this study to characterise parents' experience of physician counselling and their role in making life-support decisions for very low-birth-weight (VLBW) (birth weight < 1 501 g) infants born in South Africa's public-sector neonatal intensive care units (NICUs).
Guideline for the use of beta-interferons in patients with multiple sclerosis--a South African proposal.	To determine guidelines for use of beta-interferons in South African patients with multiple sclerosis.
Spatially explicit analyses unveil density dependence.	Density-dependent processes are fundamental in the understanding of species population dynamics. Whereas the benefits of considering the spatial dimension in population biology are widely acknowledged, the implications of doing so for the statistical detection of spatial density dependence have not been examined. The outcome of traditional tests may therefore differ from those that include ecologically relevant locational information on both the prey species and natural enemy. Here, we explicitly incorporate spatial information on individual counts when testing for density dependence between an insect herbivore and its parasitoids. The spatially explicit approach used identified significant density dependence more frequently and in different instances than traditional methods. The form of density dependence detected also differed between methods. These results demonstrate that the explicit consideration of patch location in density-dependence analyses is likely to significantly alter current understanding of the prevalence and form of spatial density dependence in natural populations.
Breastfeeding knowledge among health workers in rural South Africa.	The aim of the study was to conduct a rapid assessment of breastfeeding knowledge amongst health workers in an area of high HIV prevalence. A cross-sectional survey using semi-structured questionnaires and problem-based scenarios was carried out. Responses were compared to those recommended in the World Health Organization (WHO) Breastfeeding Counselling Course. The setting was a rural area of KwaZulu Natal, with a population of 220 000 people. At the time of the study approximately 36 per cent of pregnant women were HIV-infected and no programme to prevent mother-to-child transmission was in place. A convenient sample of 71 healthcare workers (14 doctors, 25 professional nurses, 16 staff nurses, and 16 community health workers) were included in the study. Over 50% of respondents had given breastfeeding advice to clients over the previous month. However, there were significant discrepancies in breastfeeding knowledge compared to WHO recommendations. Ninety-three per cent (n = 13) of doctors knew that breastfeeding should be initiated within 30 min of delivery, but 71 per cent (n = 10) would recommend water, and 50 per cent (n = 7) solids to breastfed infants under 6 months of age. Fifty-seven per cent (n = 8) considered glucose water necessary for neonatal jaundice, constipation, and for infants immediately after delivery. Only 44 per cent (n = 7) of staff nurses and 56 per cent (n = 14) of professional nurses knew that breastfeeding should be on demand. The majority would recommend water, formula milk, and solids to breastfed infants under 6 months of age, and glucose water for neonatal jaundice and immediately after delivery. Knowledge of community health workers differed most from WHO recommendations: only 37 per cent (n = 6) knew that breastfeeding should be initiated within 30 min of delivery, 68 per cent (n = 11) thought breastfeeding should be on schedule and not on demand, and the majority would recommend supplements to infants under 6 months of age. Few respondents suggested taking a feeding history or observing a breastfeed in response to the problem scenarios. The most commonly given responses to problems of babies who were perceived to be thirsty, unsatisfied, or crying after feeds was to supplement with other fluids or feeds. There is a need for systematic and ongoing training in breastfeeding and infant feeding counselling in the context of HIV, so that breastfeeding is not undermined by the current HIV pandemic, and exclusive breastfeeding continues to be promoted for all HIV-uninfected women, women of unknown status, and HIV-infected women who choose to breastfeed.
Intensive care for very low birthweight infants in South Africa: a survey of physician attitudes, parent counseling and resuscitation practices.	Improving outcomes have promoted utilization of intensive care for premature infants in developing countries with available fiscal and technological resources. Physician counseling and decision-making have not been characterized where economic restrictions, governmental guidelines, and physician cultural attitudes may influence decisions about the appropriateness of neonatal intensive care. A cross-sectional survey of all neonatologists and pediatricians providing neonatal care in public and private hospitals in South Africa (n=394) was carried out. Physicians returned 93 surveys (24 per cent response rate). Frequency of counseling increased with increasing gestational age (GA) but was not universally provided at any GA. Morbidity and mortality were consistently discussed and fiscal considerations frequently discussed when antenatal counseling occurred. Resuscitation thresholds were 25-26 weeks and 665-685 g, and were higher in public than in private hospitals. Decisions to limit resuscitation were based more on expected outcome than on patients' wishes or economics. At 24-25 weeks, 91 per cent of physicians would not resuscitate despite parents' wishes; 93 per cent of physicians would resuscitate 28-29-week-old infants over parents' refusal. Parents expecting premature infants are not invariably counseled. In making life-support decisions, physicians consider infants' best interests and, less frequently, financial and emotional burdens. Thresholds for resuscitation and intensive care are higher in public hospitals, and higher than in developed countries. Physicians relegate parents to a passive role in life-support decisions.
Identification of probiotic microorganisms in South African products using PCR-based DGGE analysis.	Probiotic microorganisms in commercial yoghurts and other food products are currently identified by traditional methods such as growth on selective media, morphological and biochemical characteristics. In this study, PCR-based DGGE analysis was used for the rapid and accurate identification of probiotic microorganisms from South African yoghurts and lyophilized preparations in capsule and tablet form. To identify the microorganisms present in these products, the DGGE profiles obtained were compared to two reference markers (A and B) composed of five lactobacilli and seven Bifidobacterium species, respectively. The results obtained were confirmed by species-specific PCR, as well as sequence analyses of unknown bands not present in the reference markers. It was found that only 54.5% of the probiotic yoghurts contained the microorganisms stated on the label compared to only a third (33.3%) of the lyophilized probiotic products. Some Bifidobacterium species were incorrectly identified and various microorganisms were detected that were not listed on the label. Sequence analyses confirmed the presence of Streptococcus spp. other than the yoghurt starter, Streptococcus thermophilus, in some of these products and in some instances label information was vague and non-scientific. PCR-based DGGE analyses proved to be a valuable culture-independent approach for the rapid and specific identification of the microbial species present in South African probiotic products.
Antimicrobial activity, toxicity and the isolation of a bioactive compound from plants used to treat sexually transmitted diseases.	Extracts of six ethnobotanically selected medicinal plants (Anredera cordifolia, Elaeodendron transvaalense, Elephantorrhiza burkei, Senna petersiana, Terminalia sericea and Rauvolfia caffra) used traditionally to treat sexually transmitted diseases (STD's) were investigated for antibacterial activity using the agar dilution method. Of the six collected, Terminalia sericea, Senna petersiana and Anredera cordifolia were also investigated for cytotoxicity. The phytochemical studies on Senna petersiana resulted in the isolation of luteolin, which also showed antimicrobial activity. Only the Senna petersiana extract and luteolin isolated from it were tested for antiviral activity and showed some activity at the highest non-toxic concentration of 24 and 500 microg/ml, respectively. The results of the antimicrobial screening support the ethnomedicinal uses of these plants to some extent.
Activity of a traditional South African epilepsy remedy in the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor assay.	Aqueous and ethanol extracts of six plants, Acrotome inflata, Aptosimum indivisum, Asparagus suaveolens, Barleria bolusii, Commiphora marlothii and Sesamum triphyllum, which constitute an ancient Northern Sotho remedy for epilepsy, Sehlare sa Seebana, was tested in the GABA(A)-benzodiazepine receptor binding assay. Both aqueous and ethanol extracts of Aptosimum indivisum and Asparagus suaveolens and the aqueous extract of Commiphora marlothii showed good dose-dependent activity. The ethanol extract of all six plants extracted together was more active that the aqueous extract. The results did not suggest a synergistic effect of the plant mixture.
Provision of HIV treatment in HIV preventive vaccine trials: a developing country perspective.	HIV treatment for participants who become infected during HIV vaccine trials has been the focus of ethical controversy. The obligations of sponsors to ensure that participants have access to antiretrovirals have been a particular focus of this debate. This paper presents three arguments that have been made in this regard, and some of their limitations, in anticipation of HIV vaccine trials in South Africa. The first argument is that HIV risk behaviour increases in such trials, and HIV infection can be viewed as a research-related injury, justifying sponsor provision of treatment on grounds of compensation for harm. We conclude that risk-behaviour studies to date do not show general increases in risk behaviour that could constitute the basis for a general obligation. Participation may well adversely impact on risk behaviour for some individuals, and conceivably this could be demonstrated. This argument may, therefore, have merit at the individual level; however, it seems a weak platform from which to argue that sponsors should treat all HIV infections acquired during trials. The second argument is that treatment should be provided based on distributive justice. We conclude that traditional concepts of "distributive justice" in research appear limited in justifying obligations of sponsors to ensure access to antiretrovirals. Further, using research initiatives to reduce global health care inequities is controversial, and even proponents may disagree about the fairest use of finite resources. The third argument is that sponsors should ensure antiretroviral access on grounds of beneficence; namely, the maxim that if one can do something beneficial without sacrificing anything of comparable significance, it ought to be done. Thus, sponsors should provide more interventions than those minimally required to conduct the research. However, beneficence may demand levels of altruism that exceeds what is reasonable. While the latter arguments may provide stronger justifications than the first, it is difficult to use these arguments to establish that sponsor provision of antiretrovirals to infected individuals is obligatory.
A practical clinical approach to diagnosis of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders: clarification of the 1996 institute of medicine criteria.	The adverse effects of alcohol on the developing human represent a spectrum of structural anomalies and behavioral and neurocognitive disabilities, most accurately termed fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). The first descriptions in the modern medical literature of a distinctly recognizable pattern of malformations associated with maternal alcohol abuse were reported in 1968 and 1973. Since that time, substantial progress has been made in developing specific criteria for defining and diagnosing this condition. Two sets of diagnostic criteria are now used most widely for evaluation of children with potential diagnoses in the FASD continuum, ie, the 1996 Institute of Medicine (IOM) criteria and the Washington criteria. Although both approaches have improved the clinical delineation of FASD, both suffer from significant drawbacks in their practical application in pediatric practice.
Induced sputum versus gastric lavage for microbiological confirmation of pulmonary tuberculosis in infants and young children: a prospective study.	For microbiological confirmation of diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in young children, sequential gastric lavages are recommended; sputum induction has not been regarded as feasible or useful. We aimed to compare the yield of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from repeated induced sputum with that from gastric lavage in young children from an area with a high rate of HIV and tuberculosis.
An analysis of 112 acute porphyric attacks in Cape Town, South Africa: Evidence that acute intermittent porphyria and variegate porphyria differ in susceptibility and severity.	Four forms of porphyria may present clinically with the acute attack, an episodic, severe, and potentially life-threatening manifestation characterized by abdominal and neurologic symptoms. We describe our experience with 112 consecutive attacks observed and treated in 25 patients with the 2 most common forms of acute porphyria in Cape Town, South Africa; 25 attacks in 10 patients with variegate porphyria and 87 attacks in 14 patients with acute intermittent porphyria. The remaining patient experienced more than 100 sequential, severe, and poorly remitting attacks, which are not included in our analysis. In our population, the relative risk of an acute attack in acute intermittent porphyria compared with that in variegate porphyria was 14.3 (confidence intervals, 6.3-32.7). Patients with variegate porphyria were significantly older (median age at first attack, 30 yr) than those with acute intermittent porphyria (median age at first attack, 23.5 yr; p < 0.0001), and demonstrated an equal sex ratio, whereas the male:female ratio in acute intermittent porphyria was 2:12 (p < 0.0001). There was a significant difference in the incidence of factors precipitating the acute attack. Drug exposure was a frequent precipitant of the acute attack in variegate porphyria, whereas hormonal factors were more important in acute intermittent porphyria (p < 0.00001). Patients with acute intermittent porphyria also showed a trend to earlier and more frequent recurrent acute attacks following the initial admission. Mean urine precursor levels, blood pressure, pulse rate, and heme arginate requirement were all significantly higher in patients with acute intermittent porphyria. No significant difference in the frequency of serious complications or in outcome could be shown. We describe our experience with treatment with heme arginate, and provide evidence that heme arginate results in a prompt and statistically significant improvement in symptoms. The incidence of serious complications and mortality in this series was low, confirming a trend to an increasingly good prognosis for patients with acute porphyria who receive expert treatment.
Occupational allergy in laboratory workers caused by the African migratory grasshopper Locusta migratoria.	Recent reports of fatal asthma cases associated with swarms of locusts affecting African countries have highlighted the importance of this insect in causing asthma morbidity and mortality. However, only limited information is available about the allergic health outcomes such as asthma and its determinants in exposed individuals. In this study, workers exposed to the African migratory locust Locusta migratoria were evaluated for allergic health outcomes as well as the nature of the offending allergens.
Detection of HPV 16 and HPV 18 DNA in the blood of patients with cervical cancer.	Persistent infection of the uterine cervix with high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPV) is causally associated with cancer of the cervix. A few studies have reported the presence of HPV DNA in the blood of women with cervical neoplasia. The aim of this study was to determine if HPV DNA could be detected in whole blood of women with a range of cervical pathologies and with HPV 16 or 18 cervical infections and if there is a correlation between cervical lesion grade and the appearance of HPV DNA in the circulatory system. Forty-five women with histologically graded cervical cancer were confirmed to have cervical HPV 16 or 18 infections. Eleven (24.4%) of these women had detectable HPV 16 or 18 in their blood. The HPV types detected in the blood matched those detected at the cervix. No HPV 16 or 18 DNA was detected in the blood of 32 women with pre-cursor cervical lesions or normal cervical pathology but who had cervical HPV 16 or 18 infections. One of 77 women with normal cervical pathology and no cervical HPV infection was positive for HPV 16 DNA in her blood. The results indicate that HPV DNA can be detected in the blood of women with more advanced cervical carcinomas but not in the blood of women with pre-cursor cervical lesions. The results of our study indicate that the role of HPV DNA in the circulatory system appears not be of diagnostic significance and HPV DNA is only detectable in women with more advanced cervical cancers.
Effect of storage on the chemical composition and biological activity of several popular South African medicinal plants.	The in vitro biological activity of nine frequently used medicinal plants in South Africa was assessed and re-assessed after various lengths of storage. The plants investigated were Alepidea amatymbica, Leonotis leonurus, Drimia robusta, Vernonia colorata, Merwilla natalensis, Eucomis autumnalis, Bowiea volubilis, Helichrysum cymosum and Siphonochilus aethiopicus. Water, ethanol and hexane extracts of fresh, 90-day-old and 1-year-old material were assayed for antibacterial activity against four strains of bacteria and for COX-1 inhibition activity. TLC-fingerprints of the fresh and stored extracts were produce to document chemical changes. Alepidea amatymbica, Eucomis autumnalis, Helichrysum cymosum, Leonotis leonurus, Siphonochilus aethiopicus and Vernonia colorata were investigated further as to the effect of 1 year's storage. Elevated temperature and humidity (55 degrees C and 100% relative humidity) were used to accelerate the ageing process of Alepidea amatymbica, Leonotis leonurus and Vernonia colorata plant material for further investigation. The TLC-fingerprints indicated that there was chemical breakdown during storage in certain species. The degree of changes in biological activity and chemistry due to storage were species-specific. In general, antibacterial activity was retained in most species while COX-1 inhibition activity was lost rapidly.
Nassarius kraussianus shell beads from Blombos Cave: evidence for symbolic behaviour in the Middle Stone Age.	Since 1991, excavations at Blombos Cave have yielded a well-preserved sample of faunal and cultural material in Middle Stone Age (MSA) levels. The uppermost MSA phase, M1, is dated to c. 75 ka by optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) and thermoluminescence, and the middle M2 phase to a provisional c. 78 ka. Artefacts unusual in a MSA context from these phases include bifacial points, bone tools, engraved ochre and engraved bone. In this paper, we describe forty-one marine tick shell beads recovered from these MSA phases and tick shell beads from Later Stone Age (LSA) levels at Blombos Cave and the Die Kelders site. Thirty-nine shell beads come from the upper M1 phase and two from M2. Morphometric, taphonomic and microscopic analysis of modern assemblages of living and dead tick shell demonstrate that the presence of perforated Nassarius kraussianus shells in the Blombos MSA levels cannot be due to natural processes or accidental transport by humans. The types of perforation seen on the MSA shells are absent on modern accumulations of dead shells and not attributable to post-depositional damage. Their location, size, and microscopic features are similar to those obtained experimentally by piercing the shell wall, through the aperture, with a sharp bone point. Use-wear, recorded on the perforation edge, the outer lip, and the parietal wall of the aperture indicates the shells having being strung and worn. MSA shell beads differ significantly in size, perforation type, wear pattern and shade compared to LSA beads and this eliminates the possibility of mixing across respective levels. Thirty-one beads were found in four groups of five to twelve beads, each group being recovered in a single square or in two adjacent sub-squares during a single excavation day. Within a group, shells display a similar shade, use-wear pattern and perforation size suggesting their provenance from the same beadwork item, lost or disposed during a single event. The likely symbolic significance of these finds suggests levels of cognitively modern behaviour not previously associated with MSA people.
Methylphenidate: prescribing patterns in a South African primary care patient population.	Sales figures have indicated that there has been a steady increase in the use of methylphenidate in South Africa. The primary aim of the study was to investigate the prescribing of methylphenidate (indicated for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder in children, and narcolepsy) in a South African primary care patient population.
Overrepresentation of the founder PPOX gene mutation R59W in a South African patient with severe clinical manifestation of porphyria.	A patient, who presented with abdominal pain and severe photosensitivity that resulted in scarring and mutilation of the fingers, nose and ears, was referred for biochemical assessment of porphyria and DNA screening. Although these clinical manifestations were suggestive of both acute porphyria and congenital erythropoietic porphyria, the biochemical profile was consistent with variegate porphyria (VP). Analysis of the protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPOX) gene underlying VP resulted in the identification of the founder mutation R59W in a heterozygous state in this patient. Despite extensive mutation analysis, no other potential disease-causing genetic alterations could be detected in the PPOX gene or the uroporphyrinogen III synthase gene. Slight overrepresentation of the mutant PPOX allele was however, observed repeatedly in DNA of the proband compared to other R59W heterozygotes, including his mother who also tested positive for mutation R59W using restriction enzyme analysis and direct DNA sequencing. Confirmation of this phenomenon by real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis and microsatellite analysis, using highly informative markers flanking the PPOX gene, raised the possibility of partial homozygosity for VP in this patient. This study represents the first report of overrepresentation of mutation R59W in a patient with a severe form of VP. A homozygote for the R59W mutation has never been detected, and the severe clinical manifestation observed in our patient is consistent with the hypothesis that such a genotype will not be compatible with life.
Development and validation of a questionnaire to test knowledge and practices of dietitians regarding dietary supplements.	We developed a questionnaire to evaluate dietitians' knowledge and practices about the use of dietary supplements in light of new draft regulations in South Africa that will allow dietitians to prescribe supplements for the management of nutrition-related diseases.
Development of a reliable and valid nutritional knowledge questionnaire for urban South African adolescents.	We wanted to develop a valid and reliable nutritional knowledge test for urban South African adolescents who were participating in the Birth-to-Twenty cohort study. The questionnaire was intended for use every second year, from ages 13 to 14 y until age 20 y.
Review of the South African nutrition policy 1994-2002 and targets for 2007: achievements and challenges.	Primary and secondary nutrition interventions are essential in South Africa, a country with mortality rates of 45.2 deaths per 1000 live births and 61 per 1000 for children younger than 5 y and an estimated prevalence of 8.3% for low birth weight. In addition, the National Food Consumption Survey has recently reported that approximately one in five children 1 to 9 y of age in South Africa are stunted (21.6%) and 1 in 10 (10.3%) is underweight for age. The prevalence of stunting was highest in children 1 to 3 y old (25.5%) and lowest in those 7 to 9 y old (13%). In terms of overnutrition, the survey also reported overweight and obesity in 17.1% of the sample at the national level. In this overview, the focus areas of the Integrated Nutrition Program are examined and critically discussed to determine whether targets planned for 2002 were met and how they are envisioned to change by 2007.
Fat, protein and carbohydrate content of diets of white insulin-dependent diabetic adolescents and young adults.	Dietary habits and serum cholesterol levels were surveyed in 39 young insulin-dependent diabetic subjects (mean age (+/- SD) 17.7 +/- 4.0 years, 21 females, 18 males). All had received the routine dietary advice that total carbohydrate, fat and protein consumption should constitute more than 45-50%, less than 30-35% and less than 20% respectively of total energy intake. Of the subjects 27 (69%) consumed more fat and 21 (54%) less carbohydrate than recommended. Fat consumption correlated positively with total energy (r = 0.747; P less than 0.00001) and negatively with carbohydrate intake (r = -0.757; P less than 0.00001), suggesting that restrictions placed on carbohydrate energy sources were offset by greater fat ingestion. Serum cholesterol exceeded the recommended ideal of 5.2 mmol/l in over half the subjects, and correlated positively with body mass index. Dietary advice to insulin-dependent diabetic patients must emphasise the freer consumption of unrefined carbohydrates, so as to reduce fat intake.
Age at menarche and the weight-for-height index.	The use of nominal and adjusted weight-for-height values using Tanner-Whitehouse standards and US National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) standards was evaluated in a sample of 800 black rural primary schoolchildren aged 12-17 years. The study showed that nominal weight-for-height values for adolescents need adjusting to control for pubertal physiological developments when using Tanner-Whitehouse standards or NCHS reference series. It is suggested that in nutritional studies involving adolescents, especially in developing countries, the age at menarche be determined to ensure accurate calculation of the weight-for-height index and correct classification of children by the index, and that researchers should mention in their methodology whether the weight-for-height values presented are nominal values or adjusted values.
Blood usage in elective surgery--a 3-month audit at Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town.	Unnecessary crossmatching of blood is expensive and can result in unwarranted transfusion with needles exposure of patients to the risks of transfusion therapy. Since the extent of unnecessary crossmatching and transfusion at Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town had not previously been considered in detail, blood usage in elective surgery was studied over a period of 3 months in 1990 to determine adherence to the Maximum Surgical Blood Ordering Schedule (MSBOS), crossmatch transfusion ratios (CTRs) and transfusion appropriateness. Just over half of blood bank requests were equal to or less than the MSBOS. The overall CTR in elective surgery for this period was found to be 1,7, which, not unexpectedly, is higher than that for the whole of Groote Schuur Hospital (1,4). However, it ranged from 1,4 in cardiac surgery to 4,7 for neurosurgery. Twenty-nine per cent of postoperative transfusions were considered to have been excessive. Transfusion therapy in the peri-operative period is discussed and possible changes in strategy are suggested.
Previous birth outcome of antenatal clinic attenders in northern KwaZulu--perinatal and infant mortality rates.	A questionnaire survey was undertaken among pregnant women presenting for the first time to antenatal clinics attached to Mosvold Hospital in rural northern KwaZulu. They were asked details of the outcome of their previous pregnancies and the survival of their last-born children. Of 2,388 mothers interviewed, 1,795 had given birth previously. Of these, 41% had had their last deliveries at home, 47% in hospital and 10% at clinics. The perinatal mortality rate was 38/1,000, with no significant differences between home and hospital or clinic births. The infant mortality rate for live-born children was 62/1,000. Fifty per cent of child deaths occurred at home. The study methodology was easily applied and provided an acceptable alternative technique for measuring child mortality rates, which are so difficult to obtain in rural areas in southern Africa.
Comparison of pregnancy and labour in teenagers and primigravidas aged 21-25 years in Transkei.	The outcome of pregnancy and labour in 601 primigravidas aged 19 years and under was compared with that of 221 primigravidas aged 21-25 years. The risks of antenatal complications, such as anaemia, haemorrhage and pre-eclampsia, were the same in both groups. The much-published low birth weight of babies born to teenagers was not observed; the weights of the babies in the two groups were similar. The caesarean section rates of 12% and 15% for the study and control groups, respectively, compared very well with the rate in the general obstetric population, indicating that the risk of cephalopelvic disproportion (the commonest indication for caesarean section) is the same among all primigravidas, whatever their age. The perinatal mortality rate was, however, slightly higher among the teenagers (58,2/1,000) than among the older mothers (40,7/1,000), although the difference was not statistically significant. Therefore the notion held by many people who practise midwifery that teenage mothers are, because of their age alone, more disadvantaged in terms of obstetric performance, is not absolutely true.
Early onset severe pre-eclampsia: expectant management at a secondary hospital in close association with a tertiary institution.	Early onset severe pre-eclampsia is ideally managed in a tertiary setting. We investigated the possibility of safe management at secondary level, in close co-operation with the tertiary centre.
Early benefits of improved burn-care capability at Kalafong Hospital.	The creation of an improved burn-care capability was a long-awaited dream at Kalafong Hospital, one of the two academic (tertiary referral) hospitals of the University of Pretoria. When this recently became a reality, a prospective analysis of cost-effective burn care was initiated. For patients with burns of less than 10% body surface area (BSA), hospital stay (healing time) was shortened from a mean of 4.1 d/% BSA burnt to 2.7 d/% BSA burnt (34% reduction; P = 0.01). For patients with burns greater than 10% BSA, hospital stay (healing time) decreased from 2.3 d/% BSA burnt to 1.4 d/% BSA burnt (39% reduction; P = 0.0095). The overall mortality rate declined from 16.2% to 11.2% over the 24-month period. Patients with the largest deep dermal burn injury to survive in our hospital improved from 35% BSA to 60%. It is concluded that the creation of better burn care facilities at our hospital has shortened the hospital stay of survivors by a mean of 35% and decreased the mortality rate by 30%. Hospital authorities should take note of the fact that better facilities not only improve cost-effective patient care but also survival figures.
Microbial content of commercial South African high-moisture dried fruits.	The aim was to evaluate commercially available South African high-moisture dried fruits (HMDF) for the microbial, moisture and SO2 contents, as well as aw and pH.
Acute renal failure associated with the use of traditional folk remedies in South Africa.	The use of folk remedies is widespread throughout Africa. Acute renal failure (ARF) is one of the most severe, but under-recognized, complications of folk remedy use. This report aims to describe the clinical presentation, outcomes, and nature of renal injury in patients with folk-remedy-associated ARF. Clinical data were evaluated retrospectively in 78 patients with ARF associated with recent folk remedy use. ARF was defined as elevated serum urea and creatinine above the age-appropriate normal ranges, persistent oligoanuria, worsening renal function with time, or need for dialysis. Overall mortality in patients with ARF was 41%. Mortality was higher in adults (45.5%) than in infants (36.6%), in patients with both renal and liver dysfunction (62.5%) than in those with renal dysfunction alone (22.6%), and in HIV-positive (44.4%) versus HIV-negative (34.6%) patients. Vomiting (51.3%) and diarrhea (43.6%) were the most frequent presenting symptoms. Metabolic acidosis (80.8%) and volume depletion (62.8%) were the most frequent clinical findings. The definable causes of ARF were pre-renal (26.9%), acute tubular necrosis (ATN; 26.9%), hepatorenal syndrome (6.4%), urinary tract infection/sepsis (7.7%), and primary renal disorders (7.7%). Twenty-seven patients had concomitant medical conditions unlikely primarily related to folk remedy ingestion. In conclusion, ARF occurring after use of folk remedies in South Africa is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The most common contributors to ARF in this setting are volume depletion and ATN. Significantly, although a proportion of patients have underlying systemic or renal conditions that may contribute to renal dysfunction, in the majority of patients, folk remedy use appears to be the most likely proximate cause. In view of the large numbers of Africans living abroad, more widespread awareness of this important clinical problem needs to be raised.
Lethal effects of experimental warming approximating a future climate scenario on southern African quartz-field succulents: a pilot study.	Here we examine the response of succulents in a global biodiversity hot spot to experimental warming consistent with a future African climate scenario. Passive daytime warming (averaging 5.5 degrees C above ambient) of the natural vegetation was achieved with 18 transparent hexagonal open-top chamber arrays randomized in three different quartz-field communities. After 4-months summer treatment, the specialized-dwarf and shrubby succulents displayed between 2.1 and 4.9 times greater plant and canopy mortalities in the open-top chambers than in the control plots. Those surviving in cooler ventilated areas and shaded refuges in the chambers had lower starch concentrations and water contents; the shrubby succulents also exhibited diminished chlorophyll concentrations. It is concluded that current thermal regimes are likely to be closely proximate to tolerable extremes for many endemic succulents in the region, and that anthropogenic warming could significantly exceed their thermal thresholds. Further investigation is required to elucidate the importance of associated moisture deficits in these warming experiments, a potential consequence of supplementary (fog and dew) precipitation interception by open-top chambers and higher evaporation therein, on plant mortalities.
Cost analysis of ELISA, solid-phase extraction, and solid-phase microextraction for the monitoring of pesticides in water.	The implementation of a pesticide water monitoring program in South Africa is limited by a lack of financial and analytical resources. A cost analysis of three analytical methods, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), solid-phase microextraction (SPME), and traditional solid-phase extraction methods (SPE), was conducted. The cost analysis assumed a hypothetical scenario in terms of the sampling area (a grape farming rural region in the Western Cape province of South Africa), sample collection (weekly grab samples collected from eight sites by an environmental health officer in a nearby town), transport of samples (via courier), and analysis (endosulfan and chlorpyrifos analysis conducted by a local higher educational institution laboratory in Cape Town). The cost per sample for the three analytical methods was determined by estimating the annual capital costs, including building and equipment, and recurrent costs, including transport, personnel, supplies, and building operating costs. At the optimal utility of resources, SPME had the lowest cost per sample (US $37), followed by SPE (US $48.50) and ELISA (US $60). Recurrent costs formed the bulk of the costs of all three methods (91-97%). The cost of supplies was particularly high for ELISA (US $34 per sample). The cost per sample estimated for all three methods is substantially lower than those quoted by other laboratories in South Africa. The low cost of SPME is particularly important because of the sensitivity and reliability of this method and the faster output compared to SPE, and SPME is recommended for the long-term monitoring of pesticide pollution.
Bone mineral density in women aged 40-49 years using depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate, norethisterone enanthate or combined oral contraceptives for contraception.	Most studies show that depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) has a negative effect on bone mass. There are conflicting reports with respect to recovery of bone mass with long-term use of DMPA. No information is available on the effect of norethisterone enanthate (NET-EN) on bone mass, and combined oral contraceptives (COCs) have not been found to be associated with loss of bone mass. The aim of this study was to investigate bone mineral density (BMD) in older women (40-49 years) in relation to use of DMPA, NET-EN and COCs for at least 12 months preceding recruitment into the study. One-hundred twenty-seven users of DMPA, 102 NET-EN users and 106 COC users were compared to 161 nonuser controls. Bone mineral density was measured at the distal radius and midshaft of the ulna using dual X-ray absorptiometry. There was no significant difference in BMD between the four contraceptive user groups (p=.26) with and without adjustment for age. Although a small decrease in BMD was noted in the age range of 40-49 years, this was not statistically significant (p=.7). The BMD was found to be significantly associated with body mass index (BMI) (p<or=.0001) at both measurement sites, with an increase of one unit of BMI translating to an increase of 0.0044 g/cm2 in radius BMD. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) level >or=25.8 mIU/mL was associated with a decrease of 0.017 g/cm2 in radius BMD relative to women with FSH <25.8 mIU/mL. Significant interaction between FSH and BMI in their effect on BMD was observed (p=.006). This study found no evidence that long-term use of DMPA, NET-EN and COCs affects BMD in this population.
Efficacy and safety of a contraceptive vaginal ring (NuvaRing) compared with a combined oral contraceptive: a 1-year randomized trial.	This open-label, randomized, Phase III study compared the efficacy and tolerability of and compliance with NuvaRing, a combined contraceptive vaginal ring releasing 15 microg of ethinylestradiol (EE) and 120 microg of etonogestrel daily, with those of and with a combined oral contraceptive (COC) containing 150 microg of levonorgestrel (LNG) and 30 microg of EE. Subjects received NuvaRing or a COC for 13 cycles (3 weeks of ring/pill treatment followed by a 1-week ring-/pill-free period). A total of 1030 subjects (NuvaRing, n=512; COC, n=518) was randomized and started treatment (intent-to-treat [ITT] population). The percentage of women in the ITT population who completed the trial was 70.9% for the NuvaRing group and 71.2% for the COC group. Five in-treatment pregnancies occurred in each group, giving Pearl indices of 1.23 for NuvaRing and 1.19 for the COC. Compliance with both treatments was excellent and both were well tolerated. In conclusion, NuvaRing has comparable efficacy and tolerability with a COC containing 150 microg of LNG and 30 microg of EE and does not require daily dosing.
Antioxidant and genotoxic properties of South African herbal extracts.	This study investigated the antioxidant and genotoxic properties of 13 South African herbal extracts. Results from the single-cell gel electrophoresis (Comet) assay indicated that there were profound differences between the plant extracts in their ability to produce DNA damage, which varied from highly genotoxic to protective. Similarly, water and methanol extracts of all the herbal preparations showed variable potencies in scavenging hydroxyl radicals, as measured by means of electron spin resonance spectrometery (ESR) with the spin trap alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN). In general, methanol extracts were better scavengers of hydroxyl radicals than the corresponding water extracts. This was also true of the ability of these extracts to inhibit membrane lipid peroxidation, assessed with diphenyl-1-pyrenylphosphine (DPPP). However, neither methanol nor water extracts had the ability to protect against DNA damage. The results show that further research on South African traditional herbal extracts is imperative to gain understanding of the mechanisms involved in their pharmacological effects. The tests implemented in the present investigation are recommended for screening other herbal extracts.
Dispersal, eviction, and conflict in meerkats (Suricata suricatta): an evolutionarily stable strategy model.	Decisions regarding immigration and emigration are crucial to understanding group dynamics in social animals, but dispersal is rarely treated in models of optimal behavior. We developed a model of evolutionarily stable dispersal and eviction strategies for a cooperative mammal, the meerkat Suricata suricatta. Using rank and group size as state variables, we determined state-specific probabilities that subordinate females would disperse and contrasted these with probabilities of eviction by the dominant female, based on the long-term fitness consequences of these behaviors but incorporating the potential for error. We examined whether long-term fitness considerations explain group size regulation in meerkats; whether long-term fitness considerations can lead to conflict between dominant and subordinate female group members; and under what circumstances those conflicts were likely to lead to stability, dispersal, or eviction. Our results indicated that long-term fitness considerations can explain group size regulation in meerkats. Group size distributions expected from predicted dispersal and eviction strategies matched empirical distributions most closely when emigrant survival was approximately that determined from the field study. Long-term fitness considerations may lead to conflicts between dominant and subordinate female meerkats, and eviction is the most likely result of these conflicts. Our model is computationally intensive but provides a general framework for incorporating future changes in the size of multimember cooperative breeding groups.
Comparison of performance by otolaryngologists, pediatricians, and general practioners on an otoendoscopic diagnostic video examination.	To compare the performance of United States, South African, and Greek otolaryngologists, pediatricians, and general practitioners in recognizing the otoscopic examination findings of acute otitis media (AOM) and otitis media with effusion (OME) as presented in an otoendoscopic video evaluation test.
A community-based integrated nutrition research programme to alleviate poverty: baseline survey.	The United Nation's Children Fund (UNICEF) has indicated that urban poverty is primarily found in squatter settlements. At present, 13.5% of all South African households live in informal settlements. The main hypothesis for this empirical study was that micromechanisms would not negatively influence food, nutrition and health of residents in an informal settlement in the Vaal Triangle, South Africa. This hypothesis was tested empirically against the UNICEF framework of the immediate, underlying and basic causes of malnutrition. The purpose of this study was to establish a situation analysis of children and women before designing any intervention.
Successful sons or superior daughters: sex-ratio variation in springbok.	Mothers would often benefit from producing more offspring of one sex than the other. Although some species show an astonishing ability to skew their sex ratio adaptively, the trends found in many studies on vertebrates have proved inconsistent. Furthermore, evidence for a mechanism by which such a bias is achieved is equivocal at best. Here, we examine sex-ratio variation over 30 years, both at an individual and a population level, in the highly polygynous, size-dimorphic springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis). Many previous studies of similar species have shown that mothers in superior condition preferentially produce sons, whereas those in poorer condition produce more daughters. We found the opposite to be true in springbok, perhaps because daughters provide mothers in superior condition with a more rapid and secure fitness return. This theory was supported by the findings that earlier-conceived offspring tended to be female and that an increased proportion of daughters were produced with increasing rainfall (which was likely to reduce nutritional stress). We also show that selective reabsorption of embryos is unlikely to be the main mechanism by which deviations from an equal sex ratio are achieved. Hence, either differential implantation occurs or females are able to influence the sex of the sperm fertilizing an egg.
Efficacy of a foodlet-based multiple micronutrient supplement for preventing growth faltering, anemia, and micronutrient deficiency of infants: the four country IRIS trial pooled data analysis.	Diets of infants across the world are commonly deficient in multiple micronutrients during the period of growth faltering and dietary transition from milk to solid foods. A randomized placebo controlled trial was carried out in Indonesia, Peru, South Africa, and Vietnam, using a common protocol to investigate whether improving status for multiple micronutrients prevented growth faltering and anemia during infancy. The results of the pooled data analysis of the 4 countries for growth, anemia, and micronutrient status are reported. A total of 1134 infants were randomized to 4 treatment groups, with 283 receiving a daily placebo (P), 283 receiving a weekly multiple micronutrient supplement (WMM), 280 received a daily multiple micronutrient (DMM) supplement, and 288 received daily iron (DI) supplements. The DMM group had a significantly greater weight gain, growing at an average rate of 207 g/mo compared with 192 g/mo for the WMM group, and 186 g/mo for the DI and P groups. There were no differences in height gain. DMM was also the most effective treatment for controlling anemia and iron deficiency, besides improving zinc, retinol, tocopherol, and riboflavin status. DI supplementation alone increased zinc deficiency. The prevalence of multiple micronutrient deficiencies at baseline was high, with anemia affecting the majority, and was not fully controlled even after 6 mo of supplementation. These positive results indicate the need for larger effectiveness trials to examine how to deliver supplements at the program scale and to estimate cost benefits. Consideration should also be given to increasing the dosages of micronutrients being delivered in the foodlets.
Efficacy of multiple micronutrient supplementation for improving anemia, micronutrient status, and growth in South African infants.	Growth faltering, anemia, and multiple micronutrient deficiency are common during infancy in developing countries. This South African trial was part of a multicenter study aimed at testing the efficacy of multiple micronutrient supplementation on growth, anemia, micronutrient status, and morbidity during infancy across 4 countries. A total of 265 infants aged 6-12 mo were individually randomized to 1 of 4 intervention groups: a daily multiple micronutrient supplement (DMM), a daily placebo supplement (P); a multiple micronutrient supplement 1 d of the week and placebo supplement on the other days of the week (WMM), and a daily iron supplement (DI). For 6 mo, the blinded supplements were provided to mothers at monthly health clinic sessions, and consumption was verified during weekly household visits by community health workers, when morbidity was also checked. Weight and height of the infants were measured monthly, and blood samples were taken at the beginning and at the end for assessing the infants micronutrient status. There were no significant differences in nutritional status of the groups at baseline with 40% of infants with anemia (hemoglobin < 110 g/L), 16% vitamin A deficiency (plasma retinol < 0.7 micromol/L), 47% zinc deficiency (plasma zinc < 10.7 micromol/L), 2% underweight, and 11% stunting. There was no difference in growth or morbidity between the micronutrient supplemented groups and the P group during the 6-mo study. The DMM was the most effective intervention tested, not only for improving anemia but also for improving iron, zinc, riboflavin, and tocopherol status.
Tissue banking in South Africa: a 19-year history.	The establishment of a Tissue Bank and the science of Tissue Banking in South Africa started in the 1960s and is still developing. This article describes the development and growth of Tissue Banking in South Africa. The current emphasis is to supply viable bone products that have been produced under the best possible quality controlled circumstances; with the collaboration between different Organ Donation Organisations. Through collaboration, a dramatic increase in the number of donors was noted over the years. Concurrently, there was a dramatic increase in the usage of different allograft products and now necessitates the development of new graft materials for expanding patient options. As an ongoing concern, the Tissue Bank in South Africa experienced an ever increase in costs to enhance quality/safety controls: increase in historical patient information, documentation and serological testing in a population struggling to control HIV. To date, the South African Tissue Bank has not experienced any untoward patient incidence since the 1960s and currently is getting over 500 donors per year.
Evidence of hunting and hafting during the Middle Stone Age at Sibidu Cave, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa: a multianalytical approach.	Points and point fragments from Middle Stone Age layers (dated to between 50,000 and 60,000 years ago) from Sibudu Cave, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, were examined to establish whether they were used as hafted spearheads for hunting. A multi-analytical approach was followed, using macrofracture analysis, use-wear analysis, and residue analysis. In addition to the analytical processes, an experimental project tested the results of the macrofracture analysis on local raw materials. The study shows that points from Sibudu Cave were indeed hafted and used as hunting tools. It was further established that plant twine was probably the preferred binding material to attach the points to wooden hafts. Resin may have been used as an adhesive in combination with the binding material. A detailed examination of the ochre distribution on the points confirmed that ochre was also part of the hafting arrangement. The need to use a dependable methodology for the recognition of hunting and hafting traces on stone points from the southern African Middle Stone Age context is briefly discussed.
Hominins, sedges, and termites: new carbon isotope data from the Sterkfontein valley and Kruger National Park.	Stable carbon isotope analyses have shown that South African australopiths did not have exclusively frugivorous diets, but also consumed significant quantities of C4 foods such as grasses, sedges, or animals that ate these foods. Yet, these studies have had significant limitations. For example, hominin sample sizes were relatively small, leading some to question the veracity of the claim for australopith C4 consumption. In addition, it has been difficult to determine which C4 resources were actually utilized, which is at least partially due to a lack of stable isotope data on some purported australopith foods. Here we begin to address these lacunae by presenting carbon isotope data for 14 new hominin specimens, as well as for two potential C4 foods (termites and sedges). The new data confirm that non-C3 foods were heavily utilized by australopiths, making up about 40% and 35% of Australopithecus and Paranthropus diets respectively. Most termites in the savanna-woodland biome of the Kruger National Park, South Africa, have intermediate carbon isotope compositions indicating mixed C3/C4 diets. Only 28% of the sedges in Kruger were C4, and few if any had well-developed rhizomes and tubers that make some sedges attractive foods. We conclude that although termites and sedges might have contributed to the C4 signal in South African australopiths, other C4 foods were also important. Lastly, we suggest that the consumption of C4 foods is a fundamental hominin trait that, along with bipedalism, allowed australopiths to pioneer increasingly open and seasonal environments.
The South African bone marrow registry (SABMR) in 2004.	Because of the presence of rare HLA antigens, particularly in patients of African ancestry, the SABMR was established in 1991. Currently approximately 20% of unique HLA types in the international database is from the SABMR. The SABMR donors now total approximately 45,000. Sixty-five South African patients have received matched unrelated donor transplants, 20 (30%) with a local donor. Most donors are from Caucasian background. To increase the genetic diversity of the SABMR donor pool, the policy is now to enrol more black and mixed ancestry donors.
Perspectives of the management of childhood lymphoma: experience at Tygerberg Hospital, Western Cape, South Africa.	Hodgkin's disease (HD) in children corresponds to a large degree to HD in adults. Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) in children, however, differs from NHL in adults with respect to the classification, natural history, management and course. For practical reasons clinicians generally classify and treat NHL in children as either B-cell or T-cell disease. Over the past 22 years, the Paediatric Oncology Unit of the Tygerberg Hospital has treated HD with three different regimens. Use of the CLVPP and MOPP/ABVD regimens resulted in late relapses that adversely affected event free survival (EFS). For the last four years HD has been treated according to the regimen suggested by Schellong with good short term survival rates. Lymphoblastic or T-cell NHL is treated with regimens normally used for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (e.g. BFM protocols) or modified leukaemia treatments for leukaemia-lymphoma syndromes (e.g. LSA2L2). We lately use a modified BFM regimen with a 70% EFS for all stages. Three consecutive regimens have been used to treat B-cell NHL over the past 22 years. The first was a COMP regimen, followed by the LMB-89 and LMB-96 regimens. Although toxicity has increased with the increased intensity of the treatment regimen, EFS has improved from 25% to 87% for all B-cell NHL. The majority of patients had stage III and IV disease. Although the LMB regimens are toxic, the implementation is manageable provided good laboratory back up and supportive facilities are available.
Criminal abortion and concealment of birth in Transkei region, South Africa.	The objective was to estimate the incidence of criminal abortions and concealment of births in Transkei. This paper presents a review of the records of the medico-legal register at Umtata General Hospital from 1993-2003. There were 37 cases of premature concealed births and conceptus material brought to the attention of medico-legal investigators between 1993 and 2003. Of these, 26 (70.3%) were concealed births, and 11 (29.7%) were abortion products. There is great variability in the incidence of abortion and concealment of births during this period. There were nine cases in 1993 and three in 2003. No case was reported in 1994. There was only a single case reported in each of the years 1995, 1997 and 2001, and four cases in each of the years 1996, 1998 and 2002. In 1998 there were eight cases, the highest for any year after promulgation of the Abortion Act. There is no significant difference in the number of cases reported for medico-legal investigation of criminal abortion and concealment of births before and after the Abortion Act which came into effect in 1997.
Evaluation of different preservation techniques on the storage potential of Kefir grains.	Kefir is an acidic, mildly alcoholic dairy beverage produced by the fermentation of milk with a grain-like starter culture (Koroleva, 1988). These grains usually contain a relatively stable and specific balance of microbes that exist in a complex symbiotic relationship (Obermann & Libudzisz, 1998; Witthuhn et al. 2004). The different groups of microbes present in the grains are active at different stages of the fermentation (Koroleva, 1982). The lactococci, including Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis, Lc. lactis subsp. cremoris and Lc. lactis subsp. diacetilactis provide rapid acid development during the first hours of the fermentation (Litopoulou-Tzanetaki & Tzanetakis, 2000). As the acidity of the milk increases it provides favourable conditions for the growth of the lactobacilli (Rea et al. 1996). The yeasts, acetic acid bacteria and the aroma-producing microbes, mainly leuconostocs, have a much slower growth rate than the lactic acid producers, resulting in the slow production of the aroma compounds and the gradual increase in the concentration of these substances in the later stages of the fermentation (Koroleva, 1982). In the past the preservation of the microbial populations present in the traditional Kefir grains was achieved by methods including freezing (Garrote et al. 1997), lyophilisation (Oberman & Libudzisz, 1998), air-drying (Kroger, 1993) and refrigeration (Marshall, 1993). Research has shown that traditional Kefir grains preserved by air-drying and lyophilisation retain their activity for up to 12-18 months (Oberman & Libudzisz, 1998). Frozen grains stored at -20 degrees C were found to maintain the microbial activity for up to 7-8 months, whereas grains stored at refrigerated temperatures showed a decreased activity after about 10 d (Oberman & Libudzisz, 1998). The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of four different preservation techniques on the activity of mass cultured Kefir grains (Schoevers & Britz, 2003). The activity of the grains was evaluated at different time intervals using four activity measurements, including changes in substrate pH, titratable acidity (TA), lactose and lactic acid levels of the final Kefir beverage.
Module two: informed consent.	The objective of this module is to familiarise you with the concept of informed consent, its ethical basis, its elements, and typical problems that are encountered even by the most well intentioned researchers when trying to achieve genuine informed consent.
Module four: standards of care and clinical trials.	This module examines ethical debates about the level of care that should be provided to human research participants. Particular attention is placed on the question of what should be considered an ethically acceptable control arm. You will also learn what relevant international and domestic regulatory documents say about standards of care.
Module five: implementation of ethics review.	The objective of this module is to inform you on issues of concern for Research Ethics Committee members and investigators during the review process. The many guidelines on research ethics, including those from the South African Department of Health and the World Health Organisation, will be referred to extensively to educate you on the requirements of Research Ethics Committees. The evolution of the review process in South Africa will be detailed.
Module six: special issues.	The objective of this module is to cover ground that was not covered in-depth in any of the other modules, including: scientific misconduct, issues concerning the publication and ownership of research results (authorship guidelines - who is eligible to be considered an author, or contributor to a scientific paper etc.), special problems occurring in social science and epidemiological research, and the problems pertaining to conflicts of interest the various players in biomedical research activities could encounter.
Market and product assessment of probiotic/prebiotic-containing functional foods and supplements manufactured in South Africa.	Probiotic and prebiotic products manufactured in South Africa were identified and health and content claims stated on the labels were evaluated according to available scientific evidence, the proposed South African regulations in the Foodstuffs, Cosmetics and Disinfectants Act (Act No. 54 of 1972, www.doh.gov.za), and microbial assessment.
The effects of a systematically developed photo-novella on knowledge, attitudes, communication and behavioural intentions with respect to sexually transmitted infections among secondary school learners in South Africa.	A pre-post test follow-up design was used to test the effects of a systematically developed photo-novella (Laduma) on knowledge, attitudes, communication and behavioural intentions with respect to sexually transmitted infections, after a single reading by 1168 secondary school learners in South Africa. The reading resulted in an increase in knowledge on the spread of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), change in attitude to condom use and towards people with STIs and/or HIV/AIDS, as well as increased intention to practice safe sex. Laduma did not influence communication about sexually transmitted infections and reported sexual behaviour and condom use. While print media proved to be an effective strategy to reach large numbers of youth and prepare them for adequate preventive behaviours, the study also identified the need to combine print media with other planned theory-based interventions that build confidence and skills to initiate the preventive behaviour.
Differential respirable dust related lung function effects between current and former South African coal miners.	Dust-related dose-response decrements in lung function among coal miners have been reported in several studies, with varying magnitudes across populations. Few studies have compared differences between current and former coal miners. No studies on dose response relationships with lung function have been conducted in South African coal mines, one of the top three producers of coal internationally. The objectives of this study were (1) to describe the relationship between respirable dust exposure and lung function among current and former South African coal miners and to determine whether differential dust related effects were present between these employment categories; (2) to examine dust related dose response relationships, controlling for potential confounding by smoking and a history of tuberculosis (TB). Six hundred and eighty-four current and 188 ex-miners from three bituminous coal mines in Mpumalanga Province were studied. Interviews assessing work histories, smoking profiles and other risk factors were conducted. Work histories were also obtained from company records. Standardised spirometry was performed by trained technicians. Cumulative respirable dust exposure (CDE) estimates were constructed from company-collected sampling and measurements conducted by the researchers. Regression models examined the associations of CDE with per cent predicted FEV(1) and FVC, controlling for smoking, past history of TB and employment status. A statistically significant decline in FEV(1) of 1.1 and 2.2 ml/mg-year/m(3) was found in representative 40-year-old, 1.7-m tall current and former miners, respectively. Significant differences were found between the highest and medium exposure categories. Ex-miners had a lower mean per cent predicted lung function than current miners for each cumulative exposure category, suggesting a "healthy worker" effect. Past history of TB contributed to 21 and 14% declines in per cent predicted FEV(1) and FVC, respectively. Thus, in this cohort, a dose-related decline in lung function was associated with respirable dust exposure, with a magnitude of effect similar to that seen in other studies and important differences between current and former employees. A "healthy worker" effect may have attenuated the magnitude of this relationship. TB was a significant contributor to lung function loss.
Male investment under changing conditions among chacma baboons at Suikerbosrand.	Male investment in infant baboons was measured by frequency of carrying from 1978 through 1985. A series of hypotheses was generated and tested with the carrying data, based on the assumptions that: male baboons have some capacity to estimate likelihood of paternity; where paternity probability is greater, males will invest more, where potential benefits to males or infants are higher, males will invest more. Carrying was affected by probability of paternity, availability of estrous females, season of conception and season of carrying, infant age, subtrooping, and predation risk. Infants were carried by probable fathers, siblings, mothers' siblings, and unrelated "suitors." Male investment increased female reproductive fitness: carried infants were more likely to survive, and mothers of carried infants had shorter interbirth intervals. Males appeared to estimate paternity both by observed copulations by other males and by the likelihood that copulations could have occurred without being observed. Male care of infant baboons may also be affected by female choice among males, the distribution of probable infants in time, male tenure at alpha rank, the number of males per troop, the probability of infanticide, and energy demands. Subtrooping seems to be historically crucial, by initially creating a situation in which some males have high paternity certainty.
Health promotion in adolescent students]	Student health services offer excellent opportunities for health promotion. Besides the contact with students who attend the clinic because of illness, and thus present an opportunity for individual health promotion, relatively easy contact can be made with groups of healthy students at whom projects for health promotion can be aimed. It is imperative that these students, who are the parents of tomorrow, must be educated in health promotion in order to carry over a healthy life-style to a family and thus to the following generation.
Maximal work capacity and dietary status of rural black South African schoolboys aged 10-14 years.	The anthropometric and physical characteristics, nutritional status, exercise habits and physiological response to maximal exercise of 22 rural black schoolboys aged 9.5 to 14.5 years, attending a local farm school on the outskirts of Johannesburg, were studied. Kilojoule intake ranged from 37% to 41% of the recommended daily allowance and percentage body fat was correspondingly low. Protein intake was, however, satisfactory and there was no evidence of stunted or wasted growth. Maximum oxygen consumption (VO2 max) ranged from 48.9 ml/kg/min to 50.6 ml/kg/min and 1.55 l/min to 2.01 l/min. Despite partially inadequate nutritional intakes and regular exposure to pollutants, the maximal work capacity of these subjects compares favourably with the age-related ranges of VO2 max reported by previous researchers. A possible adaptation to nutritional and environmental stress is suggested.
Health risks among white South African goldminers--dust, smoking and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	The South African goldmining industry employs a large labour force exposed to several health hazards, of which one of the most important is underground dust, containing a high level of free crystalline silica (30%). Inhalation of silica dust can cause chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The present paper reviews the epidemiological evidence on COPD in white South African goldminers. COPD emerges as a major cause of disability and increased mortality. The associated risk factors are smoking and combined exposure to dust and smoking. In conclusion, decreased tobacco consumption in white goldminers would in most cases prevent serious lung function impairment and the premature deaths associated with it.
Combinations of three different forms of alpha-thalassemia in a large Indian family from Durban, South Africa: hematological observations.	We have identified three types of alpha-thalassemia in 28 members of an Indian family from Durban, South Africa. The rare South African (SA) type of alpha-thalassemia-1, which is characterized by an approximately 23-kb deletion involving the psi zeta, psi alpha 2, psi alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 1, and theta 1 genes, was present in 13 members [6 simple heterozygotes, 5 with Hb H disease of the --(SA)/-alpha(-3.7 kb) type, and 2 with Hb H disease of the --(SA)/-alpha(-4.2 kb) type]. Seven others were heterozygotes for alpha-thalassemia-2 (-3.7 kb), 1 was homozygous for this deletion, and 1 was a compound heterozygote [-alpha(-3.7 kb/-alpha(-4.2 kb)]. Hematological and hemoglobin composition data indicated a moderate anemia in all 7 patients with Hb H disease with severe microcytosis and hypochromia, no elevation of gamma-chain synthesis, low levels of Hb A2 (0.3-0.7%), and low levels of Hb H. The most severe disease was present in 2 teenagers with the --(SA)/-alpha(-4.2 kb) combination.
Comparison of the battles at the Little Bighorn and at Isandhlwana. Medicolegal and forensic aspects.	Compared are two great and remarkably similar battles that occurred less than 3 years apart: the U.S. Cavalry versus the Plains Indians in the battle at the Little Bighorn in Montana Territory of the United States, and the British-Zulu battle at Isandhlwana in the Natal Province of South Africa. Computer evaluation, which was especially helpful in evaluating artifacts at the Montana site, could be an excellent tool to use in other such large-scale investigations.
Improved HIV-1 viral load determination based on reverse transcriptase activity recovered from human plasma.	A more sensitive version of ExaVir Load, a test that utilizes reverse transcriptase (RT) activity from virions in plasma to determine HIV-1 viral load, is described. The virions were immobilized on a gel that was washed, followed by lysis of the virions, elution of purified RT, and finally RT activity determination. The changes made to the original test were: (1) improved washing of the immobilized virions by addition of a non-lytic detergent to the wash buffer, (2) improved virion lysis procedure, including changes in salt, detergent and pH, (3) the use of larger sample volumes in the RT assay, and (4) prolonged RT reaction time. The alterations gave a tenfold increased sensitivity compared to the original version. The correlation between RT load by the current test and RNA PCR was the same as previously (r=0.90). Using colorimetric product detection, the average detection limit in a panel of 262 patient plasma from Stockholm was 0.5 fg RT/ml, corresponding to approximately 170 RNA copies/ml. None of 54 HIV-1 RNA negative samples exhibited RT. The amount of RT load positive samples were 19% for samples containing 50-400 RNA, 71% for samples with 400-1,500, and 100% among samples with >8,000 copies/ml (according to Roche Amplicor). The sensitivity could be increased further using fluorimetric detection. In conclusion, the modifications of the test described result in an important increase in sensitivity. It can now be regarded as a competitive alternative method for HIV viral load determinations.
The congenital bregmatic dermoid: an African cyst?	Thirty-five children with bregmatic dermoids were operated on at the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital and Groote Schuur Hospital between 1969 and 1990. Most children were under 1 year of age; 20 were males and 15 females. Thirty-one were African or of African descent, two were Indian and two Caucasian, an ethnic distribution which roughly approximates the ethnic ratio of patients attending our hospital. Most were investigated with skull X-rays and CT scan, but MRI was performed where further clarity was needed. Other lesions mimicking bregmatic dermoids included four haemagiomas, two hamartomas, two lipomas and one encephalocoele through the anterior fontanelle. One bregmatic lipoma was associated with a lipoma of the corpus callosum. All bregmatic cysts were removed through a simple elliptical incision and on connection with the central nervous system or its coverings was encountered in any patient. The pathology in all specimens reviewed (75%) revealed skin appendages to be present in the cyst wall. No epidermoids were found in this series. This series is the largest to date and adds another 31 patients of African descent to the accumulated literature which suggests that although universally distributed, the bregmatic dermoid still appears to be more common in Africans or their descendants.
A preliminary study of residential paint lead concentrations in Johannesburg.	While efforts are underway to phase out the use of leaded petrol in South Africa, relatively little attention has been devoted to the potential for childhood exposure to lead used in paint. This is one of the first studies undertaken on the African continent to report on the presence of lead-based paint. In South Africa, there is a dearth of information available on the extent of past and current use of lead-based paint. Recent studies demonstrate that large numbers of young South African children continue to be at risk of elevated blood lead concentrations. To investigate the prevalence of lead-based paint in Johannesburg dwellings, the South African Medical Research Council recently undertook a preliminary study in which samples of residential paint were collected from homes in 60 randomly selected suburbs across the city. The results indicate that 17% of all of the samples collected were lead-based paint (paint that contains lead levels equal to or greater than 0.5% by weight). The percentage of lead by weight in the samples ranged from 0.01% to 29.00%. Lead-based residential paint was found in 20% of the sampled homes, located in both new and old suburbs, and in suburbs from a variety of different socioeconomic backgrounds. These results, in conjunction with those emanating from other studies of childhood lead exposure currently being conducted by the Medical Research Council, indicate that weathering, peeling, or chipping lead-based paint may play an important role in childhood lead exposure in South Africa. Children who have a pica tendency may be at particular risk.
Morphological and molecular characterization of Endophyllum species on perennial asteraceous plants in South Africa.	Endophyllum osteospermi is an autoecious, endocyclic rust fungus, which has only been recorded on Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. monilifera (Asteraceae, Calendulae), a perennial woody shrub. Both organisms are indigenous to South Africa. Because E. osteospermi is being considered for release in Australia as a biocontrol agent against C. monilifera ssp. monilifera, it was necessary to determine its host range and natural distribution in South Africa. To address this, natural stands of Chrysanthemoides species, as well as other South African asteraceous plants, were monitored for E. osteospermi between 1992 and 2003. A morphological and molecular comparison of specimens referable to Endophyllum was undertaken. Based on these results, E. osteospermi was recorded on C. monilifera sspp. monilifera, pisifera, rotundata, canescens, and subcanescens, C. incana, and an undescribed taxon. E. osteospermi was also recorded on Osteospermum ciliatum, O. pollgaloides, and O. potbergense. Furthermore, a closely related but previously undescribed species, E. dimorphothecae sp. nov. is described on Dimorphotheca cuneata. Aecidium elytropappi is transferred to Endophyllum as E. elytropappi comb. nov., being recorded on Elytropappus rhinocerostis and Stoebe plumosa. This study shows that in South Africa E. osteospermi is restricted to a small group of related plant species in the Calenduleae. This rust is therefore considered suitable as a candidate agent for the biocontrol of C. monilifera ssp. monilifera, and pending the results of host specificity testing, would most likely be safe to introduce into Australia.
African origin of GB virus C determined by phylogenetic analysis of a complete genotype 5 genome from South Africa.	GB virus C (GBV-C), a positive-strand RNA virus, currently infects approximately one-sixth of the world's population. This virus exists as a collection of genotypes whose global distribution correlates with geographical origin. Genotyping of GBV-C isolates by phylogenetic analysis has relied upon the use of 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) sequences, however, complete genome sequences are used to demonstrate definitively their existence and geographical correlation. Initial identification of the fifth genotype from South Africa was based upon phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-UTR. It was sought to confirm this classification by analysis of full-length E2 genes from South African isolates and by analysis of a complete genotype 5 genome. Analysis of full-length E2 genes from 28 GBV-C-infected South African individuals revealed the existence of a unique group of 18 isolates, distinct from the other four genotypes. Bootstrap analysis provided strong support (95 %) for this fifth group. The remaining isolates were either genotype 1 (n=8) or 2 (n=2). Analysis of human E2 gene sequences, with the E2 gene from the chimpanzee variant GBV-Ctro included as the outgroup, produced a tree rooted on the genotype 1 branch. The complete genome nucleotide sequence of South African genotype 5 isolate D50 was determined. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-UTR and open reading frame produced congruent trees that grouped the sequences into five major genotypes. Inclusion of the corresponding region of the chimpanzee isolate GBV-Ctro in the analysis produced trees rooted on the branch leading to the genotype 5 isolate D50, suggesting an ancient African origin of GBV-C.
Role of chest radiography in diagnosing patients with tuberculous pericarditis.	To describe the abnormalities on chest X-ray (CXR) in patients presenting with tuberculous pericardial effusions.
Psychologists and tobacco: attitudes to cessation counseling and patterns of use.	Psychologists can play an important role in helping their clients stop using tobacco. The extent to which they do so, or quit themselves, has not been reported previously. The utility of snus in reducing smoking prevalence is also questioned and merits study.
Early sexual debut among young men in rural South Africa: heightened vulnerability to sexual risk?	This report examines early sexual debut (<age 15) among young men in rural South Africa including (1) risk behaviours at first sexual experience, and (2) age at first sex as a predictor of later sexual risk.
Molecular profiling demonstrates limited diversity amongst geographically separate strains of Ustilago scitaminea.	Intraspecies diversity within Ustilago scitaminea isolates from South Africa, Reunion Island, Hawaii and Guadeloupe was assessed by RAPDs, bE mating-type gene detection, rDNA sequence analysis, microscopy and germination and morphological studies. Except for sequence data, the other analyses yielded no differences in the isolates that could be used in a phylogenetic separation. Mycelial DNA of the SA isolate shared 100% sequence identity with that of mycelial DNA cultured from in vitro produced teliospores of the parent cultivar. Overall the ITS1 and ITS2 regions were found to have 96.1% and 96.9% sequence identity with a total of 17 and 21 base changes, respectively, amongst the isolates. The Reunion Island isolate was shown to be most distantly related by 3.6% to the other isolates, indicating a single clonal lineage. The lack of germination in teliospores from Guadeloupe may be attributed to changes in temperature and humidity during transportation.
Sources of household salt in South Africa.	Marketing of non-iodized salt through unconventional distribution channels is one of the factors weakening the national salt iodization program in South Africa. The aim of this study was therefore to quantify the various sources of household salt, and to relate this information to socio-economic status. Questionnaire information was collected by personal interview during home visits from a multistage, cluster, probability sample of 2164 adults representative of the adult population. Nationally 77.7% of households obtained their table salt from the typical food shops distributing iodized salt. However, in the nine different provinces between 8 and 37.3% of households used unconventional sources, distributing mainly non-iodized salt, to obtain their household salt. These alternative sources include distributors of agricultural salt, small general dealer shops called spaza shops, in peri-urban and rural townships, street vendors and salt saches placed in the packaging of maize meal bags. Country-wide around 30% of low socio-economic households obtained their salt from unconventional sources compared to less than 5% in high socio-economic households, emphasizing the vulnerability of low socio-economic groups to the use of non-iodized salt. Intervention strategies should mobilize all role players involved in unconventional marketing channels of household salt to provide only iodized salt to consumers, as required by law.
Characterization of Streptococcus mutans diversity by determining restriction fragment-length polymorphisms of the gtfB gene of isolates from 5-year-old children and their mothers.	The diversity between Streptococcus mutans clinical isolates from 5-year-old children and their mothers in two South African ethnic groups was investigated. The gtfB gene encoding for glucosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.5), an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of extracellular polysaccharides was characterized by PCR-RFLP with HaeIII restriction enzyme digestion. Forty-seven children were examined for dental caries and 128 S. mutans clinical isolates cultured from samples of their saliva and plaque and from the saliva of their mothers. Thirty-three children had active caries (70%) and the remainder (n = 14) were caries-free. Caries prevalence was significantly different (p = 0.02) between black African and coloured children, but no differences were found between gtfB amplitypes by caries or ethnic grouping. Thirty-four (27%) of the S. mutans clinical isolates investigated did not ferment melibiose. Melibiose-negative phenotypes (n = 10) isolated from four families showed gtfB RFLP patterns identical to each other. Mothers and children harboured between one and three amplitypes. GtfB amplitypes were identical in 17 families (17/47), of which nine only were identical to S. mutans reference strains. The percentage match between S. mutans amplitype from mothers and their children was low (13%) in the caries-free group compared to children with caries (44%). RFLP analysis of the gtfB gene showed the diversity of S. mutans genotypes within two South African populations that were acquired from mothers and other sources.
On the non-equivalence of documented cadaver lengths to living stature estimates based on Fully's method on bones in the Raymond A. Dart Collection.	Regression equations for stature estimation have been derived from documented cadaver lengths available as part of the demographic information in the catalogue of skeletonised remains in different collections around the world. The Raymond A. Dart Collection is one such collection, but the reliability of documented cadaver lengths in it has been previously questioned. The aim of this study was to compare these lengths with estimated living stature using Fully's anatomical method. Living stature was estimated with this method from a total of 156 complete skeletons obtained from the Collection. These heights were then compared with the documented cadaver lengths. It was observed that the documented cadaver lengths were significantly higher than the estimated living stature using Fully's method.
Development of a brief scale to measure AIDS-related stigma in South Africa.	Although there has been progress in AIDS stigma research, there are no multi-item AIDS stigma scales that have been shown reliable and valid in Africa. The current research reports the development of the nine-item AIDS-Related Stigma Scale. Research conducted in five South African communities (N = 2306) found the scale internally consistent, alpha = 0.75 and time stable over 3 months, r = 0.67. The scale was also reliable in three different languages (English, Xhosa, and Afrikaans). Correlations showed that the AIDS-Related Stigma Scale was moderately inversely correlated with years of education and AIDS knowledge. In addition, individuals who stated that HIV positive persons should conceal their HIV status had higher AIDS-Related Stigma Scale scores. Also supporting the scale's construct validity, individuals who refused to report whether they had been tested for HIV scored higher on the AIDS-Related Stigma Scale.
(3Z)-Bromofucin from a South African sea hare.	Specimens of the cosmopolitan sea hare Aplysia parvula, collected in the Tsistsikamma National Park on the south-east coast of South Africa yielded the new dibromo-C15-acetogenin, (3Z)-bromofucin (1). Standard spectroscopic methods were used to establish the structure of this compound.
A case of commingled remains from rural South Africa.	In the spring of 2003, bush cutters discovered a large grain bag filled with human skeletal remains in a forest in South Africa. Differential taphonomic processes observed on the bones suggested that the individuals had not died at the same time or had decomposed under different circumstances. The remains were sorted using gross morphological techniques which included assessing the number of skeletal elements present, visual pair matching, articulation, process of elimination and taphonomy. Standard techniques were used to estimate age, sex, racial affinity and stature. A minimum number of individuals (MNI) of 10 was established, which included 7 adult males, 1 adult female and 2 juveniles. Trauma was observed on only one individual. Approximately, 80% of the skeletal remains were missing. These various skeletal elements may have been lost by accident, normal taphonomic processes or taken by scavengers. Possible origins for these skeletal remains include removal from a formal grave, found in the veldt or murdered.
Preliminary results of exposure measurements and health effects of the Vaal Triangle Air Pollution Health Study.	The aim of the Vaal Triangle Air Pollution Health Study is to assess the adequacy of South Africa's air pollution control programme to protect human health. It is a longitudinal study of children aged 8-12 years which will evaluate exposure and effects of outdoor and indoor air pollution levels on the health of more than 10,000 white and black children living in Vanderbijlpark, Sasolburg, Vereeniging, Meyerton, Randvaal, and the Sebokeng/Sharpeville areas (Lekoa), Transvaal, RSA. Extensive data on outdoor and indoor levels of air pollution as well as personal exposures to total suspended particulate matter were collected. Preliminary results indicate that the levels of particulate matter exceed the USA health standards. A health questionnaire administered to 10,187 white children indicated that during the past year 65.9% had suffered from upper respiratory tract illnesses (URI) such as sinusitis, rhinitis and hay fever and 28.9% from lower respiratory tract illnesses (LRI) such as bronchitis, chronic cough and chronic chest illnesses. Parents who perceived that the air pollution in the region is serious had a higher reporting rate of URI/LRI for their children than parents who considered the air pollution not to be serious (77.4% v. 56.8% respectively for URI and 24.1% v. 16.3% respectively for LRI). The effect of this recall bias will be evaluated in later analyses. A statistically significant higher prevalence of LRI was reported in children exposed to parental smoking (25.7% for households where both parents smoked v. 20.8% in households without parental smoking) (odds ratio (OR) 1.32 (1.2-1.5)).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Occupational and environmental epidemiology--similarities and contrasts.	There has been considerable growth in the disciplines of occupational and environmental epidemiology in recent years, with both fields having to deal with increasingly complex exposure profiles and adverse health outcomes. Environmental and occupational epidemiology as distinct from general epidemiology are compared and contrasted. Similarities and differences between the two fields are systematically discussed in terms of epidemiological peculiarities, study design characteristics, sampling procedures, exposure assessment, typical biases, problems in determining causation, ethical constraints, and implementation possibilities for research findings. There is a need in South Africa to provide adequate training to health professionals working in these fields, so that high-quality research, which has the potential to contribute significantly to improvements in the health of workers and the general public, can be undertaken.
Agrichemical hazards in the South African farming sector.	Agrichemicals are used extensively in agriculture in South Africa and throughout the world and may present serious health hazards. A review is made of their acute, sub-acute and chronic health effects with attention to the teratogenic and carcinogenic potential. Assessment of agrichemical toxicity is critically discussed. The limited data available on agrichemical poisoning in South Africa suggest that agrichemical poisoning is significantly under-reported and is potentially a major public health problem. Implications for the development of health policy affecting farm workers are outlined.
Availability of environmental health services among blacks in urban and peri-urban areas of South Africa.	Fundamental to primary health care is the need to provide adequate environmental health services to the population. Such services constitute primary prevention, and, under some circumstances, may have a greater impact on health than the provision of personal health services. This study aimed to assess the availability of environmental health services among blacks living in urban and peri-urban areas of South Africa. A stratified random sample of 800 households was selected. After discussions with the Urban Foundation, it was felt that the proportion of informal dwellings obtained (20%) underestimated the true figure, which was closer to 50%. For that reason estimates are presented for a range of values (20-50% informal dwellings). For environmental health services the percentage availability was 30-45% for reticulated water in the home; 18-29% for an inside flush toilet; and 48-62% for possession of a personal refuse receptacle. Data obtained on domestic fuel use indicated that 41-61% of households had electricity. General indicators of social class showed that 62% of households had a monthly income less than R400, and that 22-30% of mothers with children under 5 years of age had an educational level of less than Standard 5. All of the measures were substantially worse among people living in informal dwellings. The data indicate that urgent attention should be given to improving the foundations of primary health care, particularly by providing and giving attention to equity, intersectoral co-ordination and community participation in the provision of essential environmental health services.
An old-style public health perspective of present-day health problems in a black peri-urban area of South Africa.	The public health philosophy of the earliest Medical Officers of Health is as relevant today as it was in the middle of the last century. The social, economic and environmental conditions, together with the historical and cultural background of a community are all worthy of study when assessing health care needs. This paper describes the high-density peri-urban black communities in Natal and KwaZulu that surround the City of Durban, South Africa, and outlines an 'alternative health strategy' that has been developed to meet their specific needs.
A comparative study of black South African children from three different contexts.	This study compares family characteristics and developmental outcomes of black children (N = 300) from 3 rural contexts in South Africa: the homeland, the resettlement, and the white-owned farms. Parents in the homeland were more likely to be married and had more education, less household crowding, and lower mobility than parents in the other 2 areas, and higher occupational status than parents from the farms. Child outcomes paralleled these differences in material resources and family stability. Children from the homeland scored higher than children from the resettlement or farms on head circumference, vocabulary, quantitative skill, and self-concept, with no significant differences between the latter 2 areas on these outcome variables. Children from the homeland also scored higher than resettlement children on weight, copying skill, and height, with children from the farms measuring lowest on height. Child outcomes were highly intercorrelated in all 3 residence areas, but correlations among family variables, and between family and child variables, showed different patterns across areas. Parent education, occupation, and crowding were the most consistent predictors of physical development, cognitive development, and self-concept. Family mobility and marital status, however, showed different relationships to other family variables and to child outcomes across the 3 environments. These results highlight the importance of studying children in multiple environmental contexts, because family characteristics are not associated uniformly across residence areas.
Viewing primary mental health care at a time of social transition in South Africa.	As South Africa shifts from a social structure based on the principles of apartheid to a democratic society, social policies must be developed that are consonant with the ideals of the "new" society. These must, however, take into account the current realities of the South African context. This article suggests that the application of the principles of primary mental health care is the approach most likely to meet mental health needs in the future South Africa, but that difficulties are likely to arise in the transition to this approach. These difficulties must be identified and dealt with. The authors discuss the problems in providing competent curative care to all and in shifting emphasis to prevention and promotion in mental health care. The discussion covers both practical and political complications. The authors conclude that though the process to primary mental health care will be a long one, the problems are unlikely to be insurmountable.
Diet and dental caries among later stone age inhabitants of the Cape Province, South Africa.	Stable carbon isotope measurements and incidences of dental caries are presented for three groups of prehistoric human skeletons from different regions of the Cape Province, South Africa. The isotopic analyses of bone collagen demonstrate the importance of marine foods in the diet and vary through time, across space, and according to sex. The incidence of dental caries ranges from 0% among heavily marine-dependent individuals from the south-western Cape coast, to 17.7% among skeletons from an archaeological site on the south coast. The extremely high incidence of caries in a hunter-gatherer population may be related to lack of fluoride in the water.
The impact of organophosphate pesticides in orchards on earthworms in the Western Cape, South Africa.	Earthworm population density was measured in and adjacent to an orchard in an agricultural area in the Western Cape, South Africa. Worm densities were very low in orchards (22/m(2)) compared to adjacent uncultivated fields (152/m(2)) at a distance from the orchards. The possible effect of organophosphate pesticides on the earthworms was investigated. Background soil concentrations of chlorpyrifos prior to the start of the spraying season were low (0.2-2.7 microg/kg) but persistent for up to 6 months after the last spraying event, and the pesticide was, as a result of rainfall, transported to nontarget areas by runoff. Background concentrations of azinphos methyl were higher than those of chlorpyrifos (1.6-9.8 microg/kg) but not detectable 2 weeks after a spraying event. Azinphos methyl was mostly transported by wind (spray drift) to adjacent areas. A microcosm study indicated effects of chlorpyrifos on earthworms as determined by measuring biomass change and Cholinesterase inhibition. It is concluded that earthworms were affected detrimentally by the pesticides due to chronic (chlorpyrifos) and intermittent (azinphos methyl) exposure.
Transfer of DDT used in malaria control to infants via breast milk.	The transfer of p,p'-DDT (1,1,1-tricholoro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane) and its metabolites to infants via breast-feeding was studied in an area of KwaZulu, South Africa, where DDT is used to interrupt malaria transmission. Samples of whole blood were collected from 23 infants, together with samples of breast milk from their respective mothers. The mean sigma DDT (total DDT) in the whole blood was 127.03 micrograms.l-1 and that in the breast milk, 15.06 mg.kg-1 (milk fat). The % DDT (% DDT of sigma DDT) was significantly higher in the infant blood than in the breast milk (P less than 0.05). A multiplicative regression analysis indicated that sigma DDT increased significantly (P less than 0.01) in infant whole blood with infant age. Multiple regression showed that 70.0% of the variation in sigma DDT was due to the variation in parity of the mother, age of the infant, and the sigma DDT in breast milk. These variables accounted also for 76.3% of the variation in p,p'-DDE but only for 38.2% of that in p,p'-DDT. Organochlorines were therefore largely transferred to the infant from the mother, with DDT in the environment playing a secondary role.
A cranial base of Australopithecus robustus from the hanging remnant of Swartkrans, South Africa.	SKW 18, a partial hominin cranium recovered from the site of Swartkrans, South Africa, in 1968 is described. It is derived from ex situ breccia of the Hanging Remnant of Member 1, dated to approximately 1.5-1.8 Mya. Although partially encased in breccia, it was refit to the facial fragment SK 52 (Clarke 1977 The Cranium of the Swartkrans Hominid SK 847 and Its Relevance to Human Origins, Ph.D. dissertation, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg), producing the composite cranium SKW 18/SK 52. Subsequent preparation revealed the most complete cranial base attributable to the species Australopithecus robustus. SKW 18 suffered weathering and slight postdepositional distortion, but retains considerable anatomical detail. The composite cranium most likely represents a large, subadult male, based on the incomplete fusion of the spheno-occipital synchondrosis; unerupted third molar; pronounced development of muscular insertions; and large teeth. Cranial base measures of SKW 18 expand the range of values previously recorded for A. robustus. SKW 18 provides information on anatomical features not previously visible in this taxon, and expands our knowledge of morphological variability recognizable in the cranial base. Morphological heterogeneity in the development of the prevertebral and nuchal muscular insertions is likely the result of sexual dimorphism in A. robustus, while differences in cranial base angles and the development of the occipital/marginal sinus drainage system cannot be attributed to size dimorphism.
In situ human papillomavirus (HPV) genotyping of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in South African and British patients: evidence for putative HPV integration in vivo.	In South Africa asymptomatic wart virus infection diagnosed by morphological criteria occurs in 16-20% of all ethnic groups; the incidence in black women is 66%. To identify human papillomavirus (HPV) types the prevalence of HPV in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) in South African women (n = 72) with age matched British women (n = 73) was compared by non-isotopic in situ hybridisation (NISH) using digoxigenin labelled probes for HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33 and 35 on archival biopsy specimens. A higher proportion of British biopsy specimens (68%) contained HPV than those from South Africa (50%) in CIN 2 and 3; this difference was due to HPV 16. Thirty six per cent of the positive biopsy specimens from South African women also contained HPV 33/35 compared with 16% in the United Kingdom. There was no difference in HPV detection with age in either group. These data indicate that HPV types vary geographically, with "minor" HPV types being more common in South Africa. Three qualitatively distinct NISH signals were observed; a diffuse (type 1) signal in superficial cells, mainly koilocytes; a punctate signal (type 2) in basal/"undifferentiated" cells in CIN 3; and combined type 1 and 2 signals in CIN with wart virus infection (type 3). The punctate signal may represent HPV integration.
In situ evidence for HPV 16, 18, 33 integration in cervical squamous cell cancer in Britain and South Africa.	In a previous study three types of HPV signal were described in CIN. It was suggested that a type 1 signal represented episomal HPV while a type 2 signal represented integrated HPV; and a type 3 signal was indicative of both episomal and integrated HPV. To test this hypothesis 91 squamous cell cancers (SCC) of the cervix from Britain and South Africa were examined for HPV 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 35. Of the South African group (n = 69) 64% contained HPV types 16 (n = 29) and 18 (n = 15). The SCC in the British group (n = 22) contained HPV 16 and HPV 33 in 12 and three cases, respectively. Of the HPV positive biopsy specimens, 86% showed a type 2 signal in keratinising and non-keratinising tumours and the remainder a type 3 signal. Type 3 signal was present only in keratinising tumours. The presence of punctate signal in 100% of HPV containing SCC, together with localisation of HPV signal to sister chromatids in tumour cell mitotic figures in vivo, provides further evidence for type 2, and the punctate component of type 3 signal representing viral integration.
Emphysema type in relation to silica dust exposure in South African gold miners.	The relationship between silica dust exposure in gold mines and the type of emphysema was studied in a group of 1,553 white gold miners who had undergone autopsy examination between 1974 and 1987. Of particular interest was the contrast between centriacinar and panacinar emphysema as they relate to silica exposure and the presence of silicosis. Subjects with significant emphysema, that is, with an emphysema score of 30% or more, were classified as having predominantly panacinar or predominantly centriacinar emphysema, and compared to those without emphysema (emphysema score less than or equal to 10%). Of those who had significant emphysema (greater than or equal to 30%), 24% had predominantly panacinar, 43% predominantly centriacinar, and 33% were classified as mixed. The odds ratios (OR) for the association between each emphysema type and dust exposure (one unit of the cumulative dust index) were found to be statistically significant and of equal magnitude [1.019, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.005 to 1.033 for panacinar and 1.019 with a 95% CI of 1.007 to 1.031 for centriacinar emphysema]. In 163 nonsmokers insignificant panacinar emphysema was more common than centriacinar emphysema. The results indicate that a miner with 20 yr in high-dust occupations has a 3.5 (1.7;6.6) times higher odds of having a significant degree of emphysema at autopsy than a miner not in a dusty occupation. This is likely to be true of smoking miners only because there were only four nonsmokers with an emphysema score between 30 and 40%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Functional disability and health-related quality of life in South Africans with rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.	There is a paucity of data on the impact of chronic rheumatic diseases on functional disability and overall health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in Africans.
Population data on the AmpF/STR Identifiler loci in Africans and Europeans from South Africa.	Allele frequencies of 15 short tandem repeat (STR) loci, D8S1179, D21S11, D7S820, CSF1PO, D3S1358, TH01, D13S317, D16S539, D2S1338, D19S433, vWA, TPOX, D18S51, D5S818 and FGA, were determined for 98 unrelated Africans from South Africa and 98 unrelated Europeans from South Africa using the AmpFlSTR Identifiler PCR amplification kit. The genotype frequency distributions of the 15 STR loci were in the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium for both populations.
Adaptive management and water temperature variability within a South African river system: what are the management options?	Water temperatures, and in particular daily maximum water temperatures, are a critical water quality parameter. An understanding of associated resource management issues, including links between water temperature variability and aquatic diversity values, should be part of any management programme that considers river systems. Simple rule-based models have been shown to be appropriate tools within an adaptive management approach, both because of their heuristic value and in their application for scenario generation. Such a model was developed to simulate changes in the condition factor of Chiloglanis anoterus [Crass, R.S., 1960. Notes on the freshwater fishes of Natal with descriptions of 4 new species. Annals of the Natal Museum 14, 405-458] (Pisces: Mochokidae) in response to annual frequency of exceedance of a threshold temperature under three broad environmental scenarios for part of the Sabie River falling within South Africa's Kruger National Park. This model has potential for application within the adaptive management programme being implemented by the Kruger National Park. Results show that under broad scenarios of a 10% reduction in mean daily flow rates, or a 2 degrees C increase in mean daily air temperatures, system variability is likely to increase relative to reference conditions . It is suggested that so-called "thresholds of probable concern" (TPCs), which are based on current levels of "natural" system variability, are useful as management targets for achieving a "desired future state" for the river system. The model, recognised as a preliminary hypothesis, highlights a lack of knowledge regarding the nature of system variability, and the correspondingly wide confidence limits of the proposed TPC restricts its utility in a short-term management context. Thus, it is now recognised that its value lies more in its use as a long-term modelling tool to reflect water temperature responses to flow variability. This highlights the fact that research outcomes may not always be those intended at the beginning of a project and that opportunities to implement these may be lost as lags in understanding relative to project lifetimes often exist.
Two methods of self-sampling compared to clinician sampling to detect reproductive tract infections in Gugulethu, South Africa.	To assess the validity, feasibility, and acceptability of 2 methods of self-sampling compared to clinician sampling during a speculum examination.
Design and evaluation of a drama-based intervention to promote voluntary counseling and HIV testing in a South African community.	Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) services are a major component of HIV prevention and treatment efforts. We developed a drama-based intervention to promote VCT services in a peri-urban community in South Africa.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy--a molecular service.	In 1987 a carrier detection and prenatal diagnostic service for Duchenne muscular dystrophy using molecular technology was instituted at the Department of Human Genetics, University of Cape Town, to serve affected families in southern Africa. DNA samples from 100 affected male subjects and 350 of their relatives from a total of 110 families have been banked. To date restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and deletion screening has been performed on the DNA of 60 male patients and 116 female relatives at risk of being carriers of the faulty gene. The DNA probes used were pERT 87-1 (MspI polymorphism) pERT 87-15, pXJ1.1, pXJ2.3 (TaqI, polymorphism), pXJ1.2 (BclI polymorphism), P20 (MspI and EcoRV polymorphism) and the cDNA probes. DNA deletions have been detected in 30 of the 60 affected boys and the carrier risks of 49 women have been determined by RFLP analyses. In those families where the risks were uncertain because the affected males had died, prenatal exclusion testing was offered to potential carriers. Two pregnancies were terminated when male fetuses were shown to be affected, since they had the same deletion as that observed in the proband.
Hospital management of voluntary total fasting among political prisoners.	In 1989 20 political detainees, held without trial for up to 32 months, were admitted, on hunger strike, to the Johannesburg Hospital, South Africa. Most were held under the regulations of the State of Emergency (since revoked) and 5 were held incommunicado under section 29 of the Internal Security Act (still in force). Guidelines for ethical management were based on the Declaration of Tokyo, which included the understanding that such detentions constituted mental torture. Conditions of detention in hospital were complicated by police interference in medical and nursing care, and by the chaining of some prisoners to their beds. Doctors are in a unique position to protest against inhuman treatment of prisoners, and should use this authority.
Beals syndrome: clinical and molecular investigations in a kindred of Indian descent.	Eight members of a 3-generation kindred of Indian descent with congenital contractural arachnodactyly (Beals syndrome) have been appraised. Considerable variation was noted in the clinical features of affected persons, and the previously unreported associated finding of clubbing of the fingers and toes was evident in two individuals. The family was investigated using conventional serum and protein markers, and RFLP probes for type I and II collagen. No linkage in affected members could be demonstrated with type I collagen probes.
Poisoning with a traditional remedy containing potassium dichromate.	A fatal case of potassium dichromate ingestion is documented. A retrospective review of serum and organ levels of chromium demonstrates that charcoal haemoperfusion, peritoneal and haemodialysis are ineffective therapies for the toxin. Other treatments for this poisoning are reviewed, the poor prognosis of dichromate ingestion, and the paucity of effective therapy underlined. The application of dichromates in traditional medications is briefly discussed; this is a toxin which may be more prevalent than previously thought. It is proposed that the exposure limits of dichromate be more widely publicised.
Does whole-cell pertussis vaccine protect black South African infants? Assessment of post-vaccination events and antibody responses to pertussis toxin, filamentous haemagglutinin and agglutinogens 2 and 3.	The whole-cell pertussis vaccine currently used in South Africa has not been adequately evaluated for post-vaccination events and immunogenicity. A trial of this vaccine combined with diphtheria and tetanus toxoids (DTP) was undertaken in 115 black babies who received primary vaccination at 2, 4 and 6 months of age. Serological IgG responses to the major antigens of Bordetella pertussis, filamentous haemagglutinin (FHA), pertussis toxin (PT) and fimbriae (agglutinogens 2 and 3 (AGG 2 + 3), were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in sera obtained at birth, and before vaccination at 2, 4 and 6 months and at 9 months. Surprisingly, after 3 doses of DTP, responses to PT and FHA were found merely to restore levels of IgG to PT and FHA to those found in cord blood. In contrast with the positive increases in these antibodies found in other series of whole-cell vaccination, the anti-PT seroconversion rate was only 19% and the anti-FHA rate only 24%. High levels of anti-AGG 2 + 3 were produced with 67.2% seroconversion. The frequency and nature of post-vaccination events were recorded. Incidences of all reactions to the vaccine were low (7.6%). Fever (3.2%) and excessive crying (2.4%) were the most frequently occurring minor events. The rate of neurological post-vaccination events (without sequelae) during the brief follow-up period was 2 hypotonic-hyporesponsive episodes (8.03/1,000 doses) and 1 convulsion (4.02/1,000 doses). Significant pertussis antibody levels were found in maternal and cord sera with levels in the latter frequently being higher.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Who will be the shade of our tree when you leave? Collaborating as women to advance community emancipation.	In 1994, out of a population of 45 million people an estimated 7.7 million people lived in informal settlements in South Africa (South African Institute of Race Relations, 1994). This article focuses on one community whose residents' desperation to own housing contributed to community disintegration, typified by infighting among women, and threats to human life. Issues of diversity became more prominent and destabilized community-building efforts. One effort to collaboratively break down barriers that deterred women from working together is presented to illustrate how these women created bonds based on "discovered similarities." The participatory and personal-experience approach described here contributed to their becoming active protagonists of their learning and encouraged tolerance and understanding among community women from differing ethnic, linguistic, and political backgrounds. The article concludes with a discussion of the critical importance of recognizing and working with and through differences within the current South African reality.
The cost-effectiveness of alternative polio immunization policies in South Africa.	To assess the cost-effectiveness of switching from oral polio vaccine (OPV) to inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), or to cease polio vaccination in routine immunization services in South Africa at the time of OPV cessation globally following polio eradication.
High rates of HIV in surgical patients in Soweto, South Africa: impact on resource utilisation and recommendations for HIV testing.	Interactions between HIV and surgical diseases are relatively poorly described in high HIV prevalence settings. We report HIV prevalence and its associations in a prospective study of adults admitted to surgical units in Soweto, South Africa. Voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) for HIV was offered to surgical inpatients. Research nurses interviewed participants at enrolment and doctors reviewed records after discharge. In HIV-infected participants, CD4 counts and viral loads were ascertained. Of 1000 participants, 537 consented to VCT, of whom 176 (32.8%, 95% CI 28.8-36.9%) tested HIV positive. A history of tuberculosis (adjusted odds ratio (AOR) 3.0, 95% CI 1.5-6.2) or sexually transmitted infection (AOR 2.7, 95% CI 1.8-4.2) was associated with HIV infection. Diagnoses of cutaneous abscesses (OR 3.4, 95% CI 1.4-8.1) and anorectal sepsis (OR 3.1, 95% CI 1.1-9.0) were associated with HIV and indicated advanced disease. There were no differences in rates of operative procedures, wound sepsis, investigations or length of stay by HIV status. Hospital-acquired pneumonia was more common in HIV-infected participants (P=0.028). In conclusion, in this high HIV prevalence setting, resource utilisation is similar between HIV-infected and uninfected patients in surgical wards where high rates of HIV in young adults support routine HIV testing. WHO clinical staging of HIV should include anal sepsis as an indicator of advanced HIV disease.
Raman spectroscopic study of ancient South African domestic clay pottery.	The technique of Raman spectroscopy was used to examine the composition of ancient African domestic clay pottery of South African origin. One sample from each of four archaeological sites including Rooiwal, Lydenburg, Makahane and Graskop was studied. Normal dispersive Raman spectroscopy was found to be the most effective analytical technique in this study. XRF, XRD and FT-IR spectroscopy were used as complementary techniques. All representative samples contained common features, which were characterised by kaolin (Al2Si2O5(OH)5), illite (KAl4(Si7AlO20)(OH)4), feldspar (K- and NaAlSi3O8), quartz (alpha-SiO2), hematite (alpha-Fe2O3), montmorillonite (Mg3(Si,Al)4(OH)2 x 4.5 5H(2)O[Mg]0.35), and calcium silicate (CaSiO3). Gypsum (CaSO4 x 2H2O) and calcium carbonates (most likely calcite, CaCO3) were detected by Raman spectroscopy in Lydenburg, Makahane and Graskop shards. Amorphous carbon (with accompanying phosphates) was observed in the Raman spectra of Lydenburg, Rooiwal and Makahane shards, while rutile (TiO(2)) appeared only in Makahane shard. The Raman spectra of Lydenburg and Rooiwal shards further showed the presence of anhydrite (CaSO4). The results showed that South African potters used a mixture of clays as raw materials. The firing temperature for most samples did not exceed 800 degrees C, which suggests the use of open fire. The reddish brown and grayish black colours were likely due to hematite and amorphous carbon, respectively.
Skeletal height reconstruction from measurements of the skull in indigenous South Africans.	Stature reconstruction is important as it provides a forensic anthropological estimate of the height of a person in the living state; playing a vital role in the identification of individuals from their skeletal remains. Regression formulae for stature estimation have been generated for indigenous South Africans based on measurements of long bones of upper and lower extremities and the calcaneus. Since these bones are not always available for forensic analysis, it became necessary to use other bones such as the skull for stature estimation. The aim of the present study was to investigate the usefulness of certain measurements of the skull of indigenous South Africans in the estimation of adult stature. Ninety-nine complete skeletons obtained from the Raymond A. Dart Collection, School of Anatomical Sciences of the University of the Witwatersrand, were used. Total skeletal height (TSH) was calculated for each skeleton using the Fully's (anatomical) method. Furthermore, six variables were measured on each skull. TSH was regressed onto these cranial measurements in order to obtain regression formulae. The correlation coefficients obtained ranged between 0.40 and 0.54. The range of the standard errors of estimate from the current study (4.37 and 6.24) is high in comparison to that obtained for stature estimation based on intact long bones and the calcaneus. Therefore, the equations presented in this study should be used with caution in forensic cases when only the skull is available for human identification.
Molecular identification and characterization of mannitol-negative methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.	We report on the isolation, molecular identification, and characterization of 5 mannitol-negative methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from clinical samples in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) province, South Africa. Identification based on phenotypic testing and polymerase chain reaction detection of the S. aureus species-specific nuc gene and the coagulase gene indicated that the mannitol-negative isolates were S. aureus. Furthermore, they were mecA positive, and SCCmec typing demonstrated that all the isolates harbored type IV SCCmec. API STAPH (Biomerieux, Marcy-l'Etoile, France) misidentified 2 mannitol-negative MRSA that belonged to the major clone in KZN province, as Staphylococcus lugdunensis. Although the prevalence and mechanism of mannitol-negative MRSA is unknown, laboratories are encouraged to investigate S. aureus with atypical characteristics.
Season of birth, age and negative symptoms in a Xhosa schizophrenia sample from the Southern Hemisphere.	Seasonality of birth, more specifically winter/spring births, has been implicated as a risk factor for the development of schizophrenia. The primary aim of this study was to determine whether schizophrenia patients of Xhosa ethnicity born in autumn/winter have different symptom profiles to those born in spring/summer. The secondary aim was to determine whether the autumn/winter and spring/summer birth rates for schizophrenia patients of Xhosa ethnicity were similar to that of the general Xhosa population.
A review of the management of eclampsia: practical issues.	We reviewed 90 cases of eclampsia, an obstetric emergency associated with high blood pressure and convulsions, treated in two hospitals in Durban, South Africa. We present a protocol for the management of eclampsia based on this review and extensive clinical experience on this subject, which includes hemodynamic stabilization of the mother, prevention of recurrent convulsions, prompt delivery, and intensive monitoring in the immediate post-partum period.
Resource partitioning among savanna grazers mediated by local heterogeneity: an experimental approach.	Recent theoretical studies predict that body size-related interspecific differences in spatial scale of perception and resource use may contribute to coexistence of species that compete for the same class of resources. These studies provide a new theoretical framework for explaining resource partitioning patterns among African ungulates that coexist in spatially heterogeneous savanna grasslands. According to these studies, different-sized ungulates can coexist because larger species forage at a coarser scale but can tolerate lower quality food, whereas smaller species need higher quality food but forage at a finer scale. To test this hypothesis in an African savanna, we created an experimental mosaic with variation in grain (spatial detail) and quality of short-grass patches and directly observed the visitation of naturally occurring grazers to this mosaic over a two-year period (total of 903 observation hours). Of the seven species that visited our experiment, warthog, impala, zebra, and white rhino visited long enough to allow data analysis. We showed that warthog and impala avoided plots with a finer grain of short grass and that warthog preferred fertilized plots to unfertilized plots. Zebra and white rhino did not avoid the finer grain plots. Our results suggest that differences in grain and quality of a resource might indeed contribute to partitioning of this resource by savanna ungulates. Although four focal species is unusually high for an experimental study on resource partitioning among naturally occurring savanna ungulates, this number is too low to evaluate the allometric basis of our hypothesis. Our results, however, encourage wider experimental testing of the role of spatial heterogeneity in facilitating the coexistence of potentially competing savanna herbivores.
Stylonychia lemnae strains from a North American site differ in a single nucleotide within the small subunit rDNA from Eurasian strains.	Stylonychia lemnae (Ciliophora, Spirotrichea), a member of the Stylonychia mytilus complex, shows a global distribution, occurring in many temperate fresh waters. As there are few descriptions of biogeographical patterns of ubiquitously occurring ciliated protozoans, we report a distinct sequence difference within the small subunit ribosomal DNA gene, which occurs only in the clones of S. lemnae isolated from the surroundings of Ithaca (USA) in comparison with clones of the same species from different regions in Europe, Asia, and South Africa.
Phylogenetic relatedness limits co-occurrence at fine spatial scales: evidence from the schoenoid sedges (Cyperaceae: Schoeneae) of the Cape Floristic Region, South Africa.	Species co-occurrence at fine spatial scales is expected to be nonrandom with respect to phylogeny because of the joint effects of evolutionary (trait convergence and conservatism) and ecological (competitive exclusion and habitat filtering) processes. We use data from 11 existing vegetation surveys to test whether co-occurrence in schoenoid sedge assemblages in the Cape Floristic Region shows significant phylogenetic structuring and to examine whether this changes with the phylogenetic scale of the analysis. We provide evidence for phylogenetic overdispersion in an alliance of closely related species (the reticulate-sheathed Tetraria clade) using both quantile regression analysis and a comparison between the mean observed and expected phylogenetic distances between co-occurring species. Similar patterns are not evident when the analyses are performed at a broader phylogenetic scale. Examination of six functional traits suggests a general pattern of trait conservatism within the reticulate-sheathed Tetraria clade, suggesting a potential role for interspecific competition in structuring co-occurrence within this group. We suggest that phylogenetic overdispersion of communities may be common throughout many of the Cape lineages, since interspecific interactions are likely intensified in lineages with large numbers of species restricted to a small geographic area, and we discuss the potential implications for patterns of diversity in the Cape.
Veterinary waste disposal: practice and policy in Durban, South Africa (2001-2003).	In South Africa, until recently, veterinary waste has not been included in definitions of health care waste, and so has been neglected as a contributor to the hazardous waste stream. Despite the application of, for example, the "Polluter Pays" principle in South African environmental legislation, to generators of waste, which would include veterinarians, there appears to be little awareness of and even less enforcement of the legislation in this regard. This paper reports on a 2001-2003 survey of management practices of the five waste contractors servicing just over half of the veterinarians in Durban, South Africa's second largest city. Some of their activities, when evaluated in terms of the legislation, guidelines and policies relating to waste handling and disposal, were found to be non-compliant. Since any discussion on waste management should take cognisance of waste from generation to final disposal, the responsibility of veterinarians as waste generators is also discussed in the light of the recent developments in health care waste management in South Africa. This study presents a review of past and current policies, legislation and guidelines that have application to veterinary waste. This is the first study to address veterinary waste disposal in any South African city.
Costs of measures to control tuberculosis/HIV in public primary care facilities in Cape Town, South Africa.	To measure the costs and estimate the cost-effectiveness of the ProTEST package of tuberculosis/human immunodeficiency virus (TB/HIV) interventions in primary health care facilities in Cape Town, South Africa.
Adult tonsillectomy--are long waiting lists putting patients at risk?	There is a paucity of data on morbidity associated with long waiting lists for adult tonsillectomy. The aim of this study was to assess the morbidity associated with long waiting lists for adult tonsillectomy in a developing world setting. Of 350 patients on the waiting list at Groote Schuur Hospital for 18 months or more, only 55 were contactable. This low yield (15.7%) from the telephonic survey highlighted the difficulty of managing long waiting lists efficiently in a developing world setting. As only 1/55 patients on the waiting list had a complication (quinsy), it appears to be safe to delay tonsillectomy in adult patients. Only half of patients ultimately required tonsillectomy because of a natural reduction in the number of episodes of tonsillitis with time. In order to avoid unnecessary tonsillectomy we need to find better prognosticators to identify the subgroup of adult patients likely to have continued recurrent tonsillitis.
Hydatid disease of the liver.	Echinococcus granulosus remains a clinical problem in sheep and subsistence farming communities in South Africa. The most commonly affected organs are the liver and the lung. Most cysts remain clinically silent and are diagnosed incidentally or when complications occur. Clinical examination is unreliable in making the diagnosis. Serological testing has a broad range of sensitivity and specificity and is dependent on the purity of the antigens utilised. Ultrasound examination of the abdomen is gens utilised. Ultrasound examination of the abdomen is both sensitive and cost effective. Computed tomography and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) are reserved for complicated cases. The differential diagnosis includes any cystic lesion of the liver. Liver hydatid cysts can be treated by medical or minimally invasive (laparoscopic and percutaneous) means or by conventional open surgery. The most effective chemotherapeutic agents against the parasite are the benzimidazole carbamates, albendazole and mebendazole. Albendazole is more efficacious, but recommended treatment regimens differ widely in terms of timing, length of treatment and dose. Medical treatment alone is not an effective and durable treatment option. PAIR (puncture, aspiration, injection, reaspiration) is the newest and most widely practised minimally invasive technique with encouraging results, but it requires considerable expertise. Open surgery remains the most accessible and widely practised method of treatment in South Africa. The options are either radical (pericystectomy and hepatic resection) or conservative (deroofing and management of the residual cavity). Various scolicidal agents are used intraoperatively (Eusol, hypertonic saline and others), although none have been tested in a formal randomised controlled trial. Laparoscopic surgery trials are small and unconvincing at present and should be limited to centres with expertise. Complicated cysts (intrabiliary rupture and secondary infection) may require ERCP to obtain biliary clearance before surgery, and referral to a specialist centre may be indicated.
TB patients' perspectives on integrated TB/HIV services in South Africa.	There are few data describing patients' attitudes towards the integration of antiretroviral therapy for HIV-infected patients into existing TB services. We investigated this issue among patients receiving TB treatment at a primary care facility in Cape Town, South Africa. Of 85 patients interviewed, the vast majority (92%, n = 78) stated they would be willing to attend an integrated TB/HIV service; perceived stigmatization of TB and HIV was a significant predictor of negative attitudes towards a combined TB/HIV programme (adjusted odds ratio, 19.90, P = 0.02). While integrated TB/HIV services appear generally acceptable in this setting, continuing efforts to combat stigmatization are necessary to ensure maximum uptake.
The effect of hypnotherapeutic ego strengthening with female spouses of South African coronary artery bypass surgery patients.	In addition to exacerbating morbidity in male coronary artery bypass surgery (CABS) patients, their plight can also impose considerable strain on their female spouses' mood states, resulting in compromised quality of life. The current study was aimed at determining the impact of pre postoperative hypnotherapeutic ego strengthening (HES) on anxiety and depression in female spouses. It was conducted simultaneously with a recently published study of their CABS husbands' response to HES. Spouses whose husbands had been randomly assigned to an experimental group, were designated the experimental spouse group (n = 25) and spouses whose husbands constituted the control group, likewise comprised the control spouse group (n = 25). Assessment occurred preoperatively, on the day of discharge and at six week follow-up. Spouses in the experimental group (n = 25) were introduced to hypnotherapeutic ego strengthening (HES), pre and postoperatively. In the postoperative assessment experimental female spouses showed significantly reduced morbidity levels, which were maintained at follow-up. In contrast, females in the control group (n = 25) showed no change. The results supported the value of brief hypnotherapy as a means of psychologically empowering spouses whose husbands' were undergoing CABS.
A review of the bioactivity of South African herbal teas: rooibos (Aspalathus linearis) and honeybush (Cyclopia intermedia).	Rooibos (Aspalathus linearis) and honeybush (Cyclopia intermedia) are popular tisanes in their native South Africa and have a growing worldwide market. Both herbal teas are used traditionally for medicinal purposes and are rich in polyphenols with rooibos a rare source of the dietary dihydrochalcones, aspalathin and nothofagin. The principal polyphenols in honeybush include the xanthone mangiferin and the flavonones hesperitin and isokuranetin. Despite their divergent phytochemical and nutrient compositions, rooibos and honeybush share potent antioxidant and antimutagenic activities in vitro. Animal model studies indicate both herbal teas possess potent antioxidant, immune-modulating and chemopreventive actions. However, human studies of rooibos are limited and of honeybush are absent. No adverse effects of rooibos or honeybush consumption as tisanes have been reported.
Reducing the healthcare costs of urban air pollution: the South African experience.	Air pollutants often have adverse effects on human health. This paper investigates and ranks a set of policy and technological interventions intended to reduce such health costs in the high population density areas of South Africa. It initially uses a simple benefit-cost rule, later extended to capture sectoral employment impacts. Although the focus of state air quality legislation is on industrial pollutants, the most efficient interventions were found to be at household level. These included such low-cost interventions as training householders to place kindling above rather than below the coal in a fireplace and insulating roofs. The first non-household policies to emerge involved vehicle fuels and technologies. Most proposed industrial interventions failed a simple cost-benefit test. The paper's policy messages are that interventions should begin with households and that further industry controls are not yet justifiable in their present forms as these relate to the health care costs of such interventions.
Properties of novel and widely studied Y-STR loci in three South African populations.	The objective of the present study was to examine the properties of a set of single-copy Y-STR loci to assess their suitability for forensic casework in three South African populations. Three criteria were used to select markers for assessment. Firstly, the single-copy markers of the minimal haplotype were selected based on their established use in forensic studies. Secondly, 8 markers were selected on the basis of high gene diversity values reported for several population studies, and thirdly 19 markers were chosen from a survey of Y-chromosome sequence with selections made primarily on the basis of the number of repeated elements present. Samples were typed from 101 English-speaking Caucasians, 88 Xhosa individuals and 77 Asian Indians. Gene diversity values, the number of alleles identified and the average stutter was determined for each locus.
Undiagnosed tuberculosis in a community with high HIV prevalence: implications for tuberculosis control.	Although failure of tuberculosis (TB) control in sub-Saharan Africa is attributed to the HIV epidemic, it is unclear why the directly observed therapy short-course (DOTS) strategy is insufficient in this setting. We conducted a cross-sectional survey of pulmonary TB (PTB) and HIV infection in a community of 13,000 with high HIV prevalence and high TB notification rate and a well-functioning DOTS TB control program.
Mitochondrial DNA analyses of the Cape hakes reveal an expanding, panmictic population for Merluccius capensis and population structuring for mature fish in Merluccius paradoxus.	The Cape hake species, Merluccius capensis and Merluccius paradoxus are the most important resource of the South African and Namibian demersal fishery, but it is unclear whether there is a single population of each shared by both countries. We analysed the population structure and evolutionary history of these two species using the variable 5' region of the mtDNA control region for 311 specimens of M. capensis and 333 specimens of M. paradoxus sampled between Lüderitz (southern Namibia) to south of Cape Point (South Africa). 107 haplotypes for M. capensis and eight haplotypes for M. paradoxus were recovered. AMOVA and pairwise Phi(st) analyses revealed no structure in M. capensis, however significant genetic differentiation between Namibian and South African 'populations' was detected for M. paradoxus. This was only restricted to mature fish older than 3 and 4 years and not for juvenile fish younger than 3 years. Analyses reveal that M. capensis has undergone population expansion (Fu's Fs=-26.65, P<0.001), possibly within the last 4500-23,000 years, whereas M. paradoxus has not. Our study highlights the utility of genetic markers to unravel the evolutionary history of sympatric species, as well as addressing management issues within regions where commercially valuable fish stocks are shared between nations.
Transbronchial needle aspirates: how many passes per target site?	Transbronchial needle aspiration is a bronchoscopic sampling method for a variety of bronchial and pulmonary lesions. The present study investigated whether and how serial needle passes contribute to the yield of transbronchial needle aspiration at specific target sites. A total of 1,562 needle passes, performed at 374 target sites in 245 patients with neoplastic disease (82%), non-neoplastic disease (15%) or undiagnosed lesions (3%), were prospectively recorded and rated for anatomical location, size, bronchoscopic appearance and underlying disease. Positive aspirates were obtained in 75% of patients and at 68% of target sites. A diagnosis was established with the first, second, third and fourth needle pass at 64, 87, 95 and 98% of targets, respectively. The absolute yield varied strongly with target site features, but the stepwise increment to the maximum yield provided by serial passes was similar across target sites. In conclusion, three transbronchial needle passes per site are appropriate when only a tissue diagnosis is sought and when alternative sites or sampling modalities are available. At least four or five passes should be carried out at lymph node stations critical for the staging of lung cancer.
Conceptualizing the human use of wild edible herbs for conservation in South African communal areas.	The importance of wild edible herbaceous species to resource poor households in most rural economies within savannas has been little studied. This is because most of the herbs grow in impoverished species communities and lands, often referred to as 'marginal lands'. The aim of this paper is to conceptualize how the economics of wild edible herbs to households can be used to add value to total livelihoods and conservation within traditional communal areas of South Africa. Analysis of the economics of the consumption of wild edible herbs in Thorndale (Bushbuckridge district) of the Limpopo province is presented. The majority of households consumed wild edible herbs, averaging 15.4 kg dried weight per household per year and valued at $167 per household. The herbs were mostly harvested from uncultivated areas of farms, and rangelands. There was little correlation between household characteristics and the dependence on wild herbs for food. The local people noted a decline in the availability of the species, although not much is known about attempts to cultivate them. The only reasons attributed to the decline were nutrient poor soils and insufficient rains. With this background, developing a local strategy to sustain the species through cultivation by households was found to be feasible. A multiple-use system for the herbs, their improvement and value addition towards commercialization and increased household usage may result in wider acceptance and subsequent cultivation. Species diversity will be enhanced whilst conserving the land on which they grow. This multiple use system may include species roles in soil and water conservation.
Proliferative capacity of epitope-specific CD8 T-cell responses is inversely related to viral load in chronic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection.	The relationship between the function of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-specific CD8 T-cell responses and viral load has not been defined. In this study, we used a panel of major histocompatibility complex class I tetramers to examine responses to frequently targeted CD8 T-cell epitopes in a large cohort of antiretroviral-therapy-naïve HIV type 1 clade C virus-infected persons in KwaZulu Natal, South Africa. In terms of effector functions of proliferation, cytokine production, and degranulation, only proliferation showed a significant correlation with viral load. This robust inverse relationship provides an important functional correlate of viral control relevant to both vaccine design and evaluation.
Screening helical computed tomographic scanning in haemodynamic stable patients with transmediastinal gunshot wounds.	The purpose of this study was to review and evaluate the efficacy of contrast-enhanced helical computed tomographic (CT) scanning in evaluating potential mediastinal injuries in stable patients with transmediastinal gunshot wounds (TMGSWs).
Alien plant invasions--incorporating emerging invaders in regional prioritization: a pragmatic approach for Southern Africa.	Plant invasions are a serious threat to natural and semi-natural ecosystems worldwide. Most management-orientated research on invasions focuses on invaders that are already widespread and often have major impacts. This paper deals with "emerging" invaders-those alien species with the potential to become important problems without timely intervention. A climate matching procedure was developed to define areas of South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland that could be invaded by 28 plant species that had previously been classified as emerging invaders. Information on the location of populations of these species in the study area was combined with information on their distributions (as native or alien) in parts of Australia and the United States of America. These two countries had the best available distribution data for this study. They also share many invasive alien plant species with South Africa. Climatic data obtained for weather stations near points of known occurrence in these countries were used to define the climatically suitable areas for each species in the study area. Almost 80% of the remaining natural environment in southern Africa was found to be vulnerable to invasion by at least one of these species, 50% by six or more and 24% by 16 or more species. The most vulnerable areas are the highveld grasslands and the eastern escarpment. The emerging invaders with the greatest potential range included Acacia podalyriifolia and Cortaderia selloana. The globally important invaders Ulex europaeus and Lythrum salicaria had a more limited invasion potential but could still become major invaders. There was no relationship between the extent of the climatically suitable areas for the different species and an expert ranking of their invasion potential, emphasising the uncertainties inherent in making expert assessments based on very little information. The methods used in this analysis establish a protocol for future modelling exercises to assess the invasion potential of other emerging invaders.
Interactive cellular and physiological responses of the freshwater crab Potamonautes warreni to cadmium and microbial gill infestations.	Cellular and physiological responses of the freshwater crab, Potamonautes warreni, to cadmium and microbial gill infestations were investigated. Infested crabs were collected from the Mooi River, at Noordbrug, Northwest Province, South Africa in the autumn of 1995 and exposed to 0.2mg Cd(2+)L(-1) or kept unexposed under constant laboratory conditions for 7, 14 and 21 days at 24 degrees C. Cellular lesions with microbial gill infestations were persistent over 21 days and showed a similar species diversity and density as recorded in the previous summer [Schuwerack et al., 2001a. Pathological and physiological changes in the South African freshwater crab, P. warreni Calman induced by microbial gill infestations. J. Invertebrate Pathol. 77(4), 259-269]. With Cd exposure the microbial community disappeared and crabs showed a higher mean but wider range in ammonia excretion and lower mean O:N ratio after 7 days. After 14 days exposure to Cd, time- and stressor-specific cellular and physiological responses included degeneration of oxygen and gas exchange gill tissues and a mean reduced growth rate, ion exchange, a significantly reduced O:N ratio (P<or=0.05) and induced hemolymph pH (P<or=0.05). Both stressors, i.e. gill infestation and Cd, produce a barrier, which obstructs pathways in ion exchange and oxygen uptake, resulting in NH(3)/NH(4)(+) retention and similar physiological responses after 21 days. The interactive cellular and physiological mechanisms in P. warreni exposed to multiple stress are discussed.
Ethnic differences in C-peptide secretion but not in non-esterified fatty acid metabolism in pre-menopausal women with and without abdominal obesity.	The present study aimed to reveal racial differences in the metabolic pattern of C-peptide and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), and in their associations with cardiovascular measures in healthy urban African (102) and Caucasian women (115) from South Africa. An oral glucose tolerance test was performed with measurements before and at 30, 60, 90 and 120min. Various cardiovascular parameters and blood lipids were assessed. Statistical analyses were done in a sub-sample of pre-menopausal women. Fasting C-peptide and hepatic insulin extraction were significantly higher in lean African women compared to their Caucasian counterparts, with no racial differences between women with abdominal obesity. Postchallenge C-peptide response and hepatic insulin extraction were significantly higher in Caucasians with abdominal obesity. There were no racial differences in insulin sensitivity and resistance. Despite different associations of C-peptide and NEFA with cardiovascular measures between the ethnicities both showed significant positive correlations with triglycerides. Increased fasting C-peptide levels and unfavorable associations of C-peptide and NEFA with triglycerides and cardiovascular measures implicate a higher cardiovascular risk in lean African women only. This may be of importance for the development of hypertension in this population group.
Enamel microstructure of the hominid KB 5223 from Kromdraai, South Africa.	The Plio-Pleistocene site of Kromdraai, South Africa, is well known for the recovery of the holotype of Paranthropus robustus, one of nine individual hominids recovered from this site to date. Among the Kromdraai sample, the specimen KB 5223 comprises several isolated deciduous and permanent lower teeth assigned to Paranthropus, the only recognized genus at this site. However, a more recent analysis of this specimen suggested that it should be classified as Homo. The lower right first permanent molar of KB 5223 had been previously sectioned along the tips of the mesial cusps, exposing its enamel microstructure. Previous studies had indicated differences between Homo and Paranthropus at the microstructural level. A portable confocal scanning microscope was used to describe details of the enamel microstructure of the M1 and I1 of this specimen. Angles formed between the striae of Retzius and the enamel dentine junction (EDJ), daily secretion rates in cuspal enamel of the protoconid and metaconid and crown formation time of the RM1 are provided. The number of perikymata on the right I1 was counted. Results indicate that some features recorded in the KB 5223 molar differ from those of Paranthropus. However, the number of perikymata on the I1 is lower than values so far reported for early Homo but similar to Paranthropus. Crown formation time of KB 5223 M1 was markedly lower than mean values of M1 in H. sapiens, but similar to other early hominids. Daily secretion rates in the cuspal enamel of KB 5223 M1 were higher than in modern humans.
Sexual assault, sexual risks and gender attitudes in a community sample of South African men.	Sexual assault against women and HIV infection are both prevalent and related social problems in South Africa. The current study examined hostile attitudes toward women, acceptance of violence against women and masculine ideological beliefs in relation to sexual assault history among men in a Cape Town township in South African. Men (n=435) completed anonymous surveys of sexual assault history, HIV risk history and gender-based attitudes. More than one in five men in this community sample reported that they had either threatened to use force or used force to gain sexual access to a woman in their lifetime. Men with a history of sexual assault were at significantly higher risk for HIV transmission than their non-sexually assaultive counterparts. Men with a history of sexual assault were also more likely to endorse hostile attitudes toward women and were more likely to accept violence against women, although these attitudes and beliefs were prevalent and pervasive across men with and without histories of sexual assault. These findings extend previous research to show that men who have a history of sexual assault also exhibit elevated risks for HIV infection and transmission. Interventions are needed to address hostile attitudes toward women, sexual assault and sexual risks for HIV among South African men.
Establishing a workplace antiretroviral therapy programme in South Africa.	Ways to expand access to antiretroviral treatment (ART) in low income settings are being sought. We describe an HIV care programme including ART in an industrial setting in South Africa. The programme uses guidelines derived from local and international best practice. The training component aims to build capacity among health care staff. Nurses and doctors are supported by experienced HIV clinicians through telephone consultation and site visits. Patients undergo a three-stage counselling procedure prior to starting ART. Drug regimens and monitoring are standardised and prophylaxis against opportunistic infections (isoniazid and cotrimoxazole) is offered routinely. Laboratory and pharmacy services, using named-patient dispensing, are centralized. The programme is designed to ensure that data on clinical and economic outcomes will be available for programme evaluation. Between November 2002-December 2004, ART delivery has been established at 70 ART workplace ART sites. The sites range from 200 to 12000 employees, and from small occupational health clinics and general practitioner rooms to larger hospital clinics. During this period, 2456 patients began ART. Of those on treatment for at least three months, 1728 (78%) have been retained on the programme and only 38 (1.7%) patients have failed the first-line ART regimen. This model for delivery of ART is feasible and successful in an industrial setting. The model may be generalizable to other employment health services in settings of high HIV prevalence, and as a model for implementing ART in other types of health-care settings.
Description of a new dinoflagellate with a diatom endosymbiont, Durinskia capensis sp. nov. (Peridiniales, Dinophyceae) from South Africa.	A new dinoflagellate Durinskia capensis Pienaar, Sakai et Horiguchi sp. nov. (Peridiniales, Dinophyceae), from tidal pools along the west coast of the Cape Peninsula, Republic of South Africa, is described. The dinoflagellate produces characteristic dense orange-red colored blooms in tidal pools. The organism is characterized by having a eukaryotic endosymbiotic alga. Ultrastructure study revealed the organism has a cellular construction similar to that of other diatom-harboring dinoflagellates. The cell is thecate and the plate formula is: Po, x, 4', 2a, 6'', 5c, 4s, 5''', 2'''', which is the same as that of Durinskia baltica, the type species of the genus Durinskia. D. capensis can, however, be distinguished from D. baltica by overall cell shape, the relative size of the 1a and 2a plates, the degree of cingular displacement, and the shape of the eyespot. Our molecular analysis based on SSU rDNA revealed that D. capensis is closely allied to D. baltica, thus supporting the assignment of this new species to this genus. This Durinskia clade takes a sister position to another diatom-harboring dinoflagellate clade, which includes Kryptoperidinium foliaceum and Galeidinium rugatum. Molecular analysis based on the rbcL gene sequence and ultrastructure study revealed that the endosymbiont of D. capensis is a diatom. The SSU rDNA gene trees indicated that four species with a diatom endosymbiont formed a clade, suggesting a single endosymbiotic origin.
Population growth confounds phylogeographic inference in Namaqua sandgrouse.	The Namaqua sandgrouse, Pterocles namaqua, is a highly nomadic granivore of semiarid to arid habitats. As a result of nomadic movements in response to rainfall, the size of the breeding population in any one area fluctuates dramatically between breeding seasons. This high mobility in response to spatial and temporal abundance of food resources is expected to result in little population genetic structuring. Namaqua sandgrouse also shows a seasonally predictable partial migration between the southeast and northwest regions of South Africa, and a further possible north-south migration between southwestern South Africa and central Namibia. It is unclear whether birds migrating between these regions breed in only one or both regions. If populations breed in only one region of their migratory range, then population genetic structuring is predicted to occur. This study addresses Namaqua sandgrouse movements with the analysis of mitochondrial DNA control region sequences. In general, little population genetic structure was evident, yet strong signals of population growth were detected. Several populations have private alleles, which is in direct contradiction to the spatial genetic pattern expected under high levels of gene flow. We suggest that the inference of high levels of female gene flow could be an artifact of population growth and that additional loci will allow a greater understanding of Namaqua sandgrouse movements.
Swallowing difficulties reported by adults infected with HIV/AIDS attending a hospital outpatient clinic in Gauteng, South Africa.	Swallowing difficulties can exert a profound effect on quality of life, may result in reduced nutritional intake and place individuals at risk of aspiration. However, there is little data available on the swallowing difficulties occurring within the HIV/AIDS population in South Africa. A descriptive study was therefore conducted to document the presence of reported swallowing difficulties in a sample of adults with HIV.
CD8+ T-cell responses to different HIV proteins have discordant associations with viral load.	Selection of T-cell vaccine antigens for chronic persistent viral infections has been largely empirical. To define the relationship, at the population level, between the specificity of the cellular immune response and viral control for a relevant human pathogen, we performed a comprehensive analysis of the 160 dominant CD8(+) T-cell responses in 578 untreated HIV-infected individuals from KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Of the HIV proteins targeted, only Gag-specific responses were associated with lowering viremia. Env-specific and Accessory/Regulatory protein-specific responses were associated with higher viremia. Increasing breadth of Gag-specific responses was associated with decreasing viremia and increasing Env breadth with increasing viremia. Association of the specific CD8(+) T-cell response with low viremia was independent of HLA type and unrelated to epitope sequence conservation. These population-based data, suggesting the existence of both effective immune responses and responses lacking demonstrable biological impact in chronic HIV infection, are of relevance to HIV vaccine design and evaluation.
High intercontinental migration rates and population admixture in the sapstain fungus Ophiostoma ips.	Ophiostoma ips is a common fungal associate of various conifer-infesting bark beetles in their native ranges and has been introduced into non-native pine plantations in the Southern Hemisphere. In this study, we used 10 microsatellite markers to investigate the population biology of O. ips in native (Cuba, France, Morocco and USA) and non-native (Australia, Chile and South Africa) areas to characterize host specificity, reproductive behaviour, and the potential origin as well as patterns of spread of the fungus and its insect vectors. The markers resolved a total of 41 alleles and 75 haplotypes. Higher genetic diversity was found in the native populations than in the introduced populations. Based on the origin of the insect vectors, the populations of O. ips in Australia would be expected to reflect a North American origin, and those in Chile and South Africa to reflect a European origin. However, most alleles observed in the native European population were also found in the native North American population; only the allele frequencies among the populations varied. This admixture made it impossible to confirm the origin of the introduced Southern Hemisphere (SH) populations of O. ips. There was also no evidence for specificity of the fungus to particular bark beetle vectors or hosts. Although O. ips is thought to be mainly self-fertilizing, evidence for recombination was found in the four native populations surveyed. The higher genetic diversity in the North American than in the European population suggests that North America could be the possible source region of O. ips.
The effect of nutritional support on weight gain of HIV-infected children with prolonged diarrhoea.	To examine the effect on growth and immunity of enhanced calorie and protein provision to HIV-infected children presenting with prolonged diarrhoea.
Brief report: methods for collecting sexual behaviour information from South African adolescents--a comparison of paper versus personal digital assistant questionnaires.	Reporting bias in adolescent behavioural research may be overcome with the use of personal digital assistants (PDA) or other computer based technologies. However, there is little insight into the use of these tools among adolescents in low resource settings. We compared self-administered paper questionnaires with PDA questionnaires to collect sexual behaviour data from a sample of 11-19 year olds living in a periurban, Xhosa-speaking community in South Africa. There was a high level of agreement between sexual risk behaviour data collected via each method (kappas> or = 0.50). Data collected from the PDA questionnaires were more complete. Subjectively, adolescents found the use of PDA to be simple and confidential. PDA may be a useful method to collect sensitive, self-reported information from adolescents in resource-limited settings.
Impaired semen quality associated with environmental DDT exposure in young men living in a malaria area in the Limpopo Province, South Africa.	The pesticide DDT [1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(chlorodiphenyl)ethane] is 1 of the 12 persistent organic pollutants (POPs) under negotiation at the Stockholm Convention to restrict or ban their production and use because of their toxicity, resistance to breakdown, bioaccumulation, and potential for being transported over long distances. DDT has estrogenic potential, and the main metabolite, p,p'-dichlorodiphenyl-dichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE), is a potent antiandrogen. In response to mounting evidence on the endocrine-disrupting influence of environmental chemicals on human health, this epidemiological study was initiated to test the hypothesis that nonoccupational exposure to DDT affects male reproductive parameters. In a cross-sectional study, healthy male subjects (n=311) between 18 and 40 years (23+/-5) of age were recruited from 3 communities in an endemic malaria area in which DDT is sprayed annually. A semen analysis according to World Health Organization (WHO) standards was performed. The Hamilton Thorne Computer Assisted Sperm Analysis (CASA) system was simultaneously used to determine additional sperm motility parameters. Blood plasma samples were assayed for p,p'-DDT and metabolites as a measure of exposure. The exposure levels were expressed as lipid-adjusted p,p'-DDT and p,p'-DDE values. The mean p,p'-DDT and p,p'-DDE concentrations were 90.23 microg/g(+/-102.4) and 215.47 microg/g(+/-210.6), respectively. The multivariate linear regression analyses indicated that mean CASA motility was lower with a higher p,p'-DDE concentration (beta=-0.02, P=.001) and the CASA parameter beat cross-frequency (BCF) was higher with a higher p,p'-DDT concentration (beta=0.01, P=.000). There was also a statistically significant positive association between percent sperm with cytoplasmic droplets and p,p'-DDT concentration (beta=0.0014, P=.014). The ejaculate volume (mean 1.9+/-1.33 mL) was lower than the normal range (>or=2.0 mL) according to WHO, and a significant decrease with increasing p,p'-DDE values was seen for both square root-transformed volume (beta=-0.0003; P=.024) and count (beta=-0.003; P=.04). Although there were no associations between either p,p'-DDT or p,p'-DDE concentrations and the rest of the seminal parameters, the incidence of teratozoospermia (99%; normal sperm<15%) was high. Twenty-eight percent of the study group presented with oligozoospermia (<20x10(6) sperm/mL), which had a significant positive association with p,p'-DDE (odds ratio [OR]=1.001, P=.03). There was a significant positive association between participants with asthenozoospermia (32%) and p,p'-DDT (OR 1.003, P=.006) and p,p'-DDE (OR 1.001, P=.02). The results imply that nonoccupational exposure to DDT is associated with impaired seminal parameters in men. The high exposure levels of p,p'-DDT and p,p'-DDE are of concern because these levels could have far-reaching implications for reproductive and general health.
HLA class II specificities and haplotypes in South Africa detected using polymerase chain reaction and sequence-specific oligonucleotide typing.	DNA sequencing of HLA class II alleles has revealed a degree of polymorphism much greater than was expected on the basis of the standard serological typing methods. Amplification of the polymorphic second exon of the class II genes using the polymerase chain reaction, followed by hybridization with sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes, allows the unambiguous identification of alleles which could not be detected previously. Using the protocols of the Eleventh International Histocompatibility Workshop, we have applied this procedure for the typing of several individuals and their families with suspected alleles that had been observed using serology, cellular typing and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLPs). These included an allele related to DRw8 and DRw14, which has only been observed in the mixed ancestral South African population. In addition, unusual combinations of class II genes forming unique haplotypic associations were seen.
Presenting problems in black children referred for outpatient psychological consultation in South Africa.	An examination of outpatient referrals for psychological consultation at a psychiatric hospital in South Africa was undertaken. Over an 18-month period, 87.1% of a total of 31 children were referred with problems of poor school performance. Behaviour problems were underrepresented. The results are discussed in the context of inadequate community mental health services, which are implicated in the under-detection of childhood psychopathology.
Winning by a neck: tall giraffes avoid competing with shorter browsers.	With their vertically elongated body form, giraffes generally feed above the level of other browsers within the savanna browsing guild, despite having access to foliage at lower levels. They ingest more leaf mass per bite when foraging high in the tree, perhaps because smaller, more selective browsers deplete shoots at lower levels or because trees differentially allocate resources to promote shoot growth in the upper canopy. We erected exclosures around individual Acacia nigrescens trees in the greater Kruger ecosystem, South Africa. After a complete growing season, we found no differences in leaf biomass per shoot across height zones in excluded trees but significant differences in control trees. We conclude that giraffes preferentially browse at high levels in the canopy to avoid competition with smaller browsers. Our findings are analogous with those from studies of grazing guilds and demonstrate that resource partitioning can be driven by competition when smaller foragers displace larger foragers from shared resources. This provides the first experimental support for the classic evolutionary hypothesis that vertical elongation of the giraffe body is an outcome of competition within the browsing ungulate guild.
Rock drills used in South African mines: a comparative study of noise and vibration levels.	To compare the noise and vibration levels associated with three hand-held rock drills (pneumatic, hydraulic and electric) currently used in South African mines, and a prototype acoustically shielded self-propelled rock drill.
Temporal variability in particle-associated pesticide exposure in a temporarily open estuary, Western Cape, South Africa.	This study assesses the risk of current-use pesticides in a temporarily open estuary in South Africa by developing probabilistic risk estimates. Particle-associated pesticides (chlorpyrifos, prothiofos, cypermethrin, fenvalerate, endosulfan and p,p-DDE) and physicochemical parameters (salinity, temperature, flow, and total organic content (TOC)) were measured in the Lourens River estuary (Western Cape) twice a month over a period of two years and equilibrium partitioning theory was applied to calculate concentrations of pesticides in the water. The 90th percentile concentrations of pesticides associated to suspended particles and the calculated concentrations in water were 34.0microg kg(-1) and 0.15microg l(-1) for prothiofos, 19.6microg kg(-1) and 0.45microg l(-1) for chlorpyrifos and 18.6microg kg(-1) and 0.16microg l(-1) for endosulfan. Highest average concentrations were found around the summer season due to higher application rates and as a result of the low flow during this season. Species sensitivity distribution indicated a 1.5-2.8 times higher toxicity (hazardous concentration HC5) for marine organisms compared to freshwater organisms. The calculated concentrations in the water exceeded all threshold values suggested by international water guidelines. Chlorpyrifos and endosulfan posed the highest acute risk to the Lourens River estuary. No sufficient toxicity data and threshold values were found for prothiofos.
Bullying, violence, and risk behavior in South African school students.	To examine the prevalence of bullying behavior in adolescents from Cape Town and Durban, South Africa, and the association of these behaviors with levels of violence and risk behavior.
Extensive intrasubtype recombination in South African human immunodeficiency virus type 1 subtype C infections.	Recombinant human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strains containing sequences from different viral genetic subtypes (intersubtype) and different lineages from within the same subtype (intrasubtype) have been observed. A consequence of recombination can be the distortion of the phylogenetic signal. Several intersubtype recombinants have been identified; however, less is known about the frequency of intrasubtype recombination. For this study, near-full-length HIV-1 subtype C genomes from 270 individuals were evaluated for the presence of intrasubtype recombination. A sliding window schema (window, 2 kb; step, 385 bp) was used to partition the aligned sequences. The Shimodaira-Hasegawa test detected significant topological incongruence in 99.6% of the comparisons of the maximum-likelihood trees generated from each sequence partition, a result that could be explained by recombination. Using RECOMBINE, we detected significant levels of recombination using five random subsets of the sequences. With a set of 23 topologically consistent sequences used as references, bootscanning followed by the interactive informative site test defined recombination breakpoints. Using two multiple-comparison correction methods, 47% of the sequences showed significant evidence of recombination in both analyses. Estimated evolutionary rates were revised from 0.51%/year (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.39 to 0.53%) with all sequences to 0.46%/year (95% CI, 0.38 to 0.48%) with the putative recombinants removed. The timing of the subtype C epidemic origin was revised from 1961 (95% CI, 1947 to 1962) with all sequences to 1958 (95% CI, 1949 to 1960) with the putative recombinants removed. Thus, intrasubtype recombinants are common within the subtype C epidemic and these impact analyses of HIV-1 evolution.
Halogenated monoterpene aldehydes from the South African marine alga Plocamium corallorhiza.	Four new halogenated monoterpene aldehydes (1-4) have been isolated from the South African marine red alga Plocamium corallorhiza, along with the known compounds 4,6-dibromo-1,1-dichloro-3,7-dimethyl-2E,7-octadiene (5) and 1,4,8-tribromo-3,7-dichloro-3,7-dimethyl-1E,5E-octadiene (10). The structures of the new compounds were determined by interpretation of their spectroscopic data and synthesis and mass spectrometric analysis of their pentafluorobenzyloxime (PFBO) derivatives.
Allelic variation in BTNL2 and susceptibility to tuberculosis in a South African population.	Tuberculosis and sarcoidosis show phenotypic features of granulomatous disease. The bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis can induce the expression of the sarcoidosis susceptibility gene BTNL2 in monocyte-derived macrophages. BTNL2 was therefore investigated as a candidate gene for tuberculosis in a case-control association study in the South African Coloured population. We sequenced the coding regions of BTNL2 to detect known and novel polymorphisms and genotyped 18 SNPs in 432 pulmonary tuberculosis cases and 482 controls. We did not find a significant association between the truncating rs2076530 SNP, previously associated with sarcoidosis, and tuberculosis. No association was found between any of the other SNPs studied and disease and none of the estimated haplotypes showed any association with TB. Comparative analyses with the South African data from this study and published data on German and American populations revealed that, for a segment of BTNL2, the admixed, but not stratified, South African population resembles the African-Americans more than white populations.
Uphenyo ngokwazi kwentsha yasemalokishini ukumelana nesimo esinzima: a South African study of resilience among township youth.	This article presents the concept of resilience as it is understood by South African township youth and the role that Life Orientation (a compulsory school subject that aims at equipping youth to deal with and master their difficult circumstances) plays in developing and sustaining their resilience. The implication for practice is clear: Resilience is a dynamic, interactive process that can be nurtured by stakeholders who are cognizant of the importance of cultural and basic systemic components.
Neurocognitive function in an extended Afrikaner-ancestry family with affective illness.	To characterize the neuropsychological profile of an extended family with unipolar depression (UPD) and other forms of affective illness.
Ethical considerations in African traditional medicine: a response to Nyika.	Like other so-called 'parallel' practices in medicine, traditional medicine (TM) does not avoid criticism or even rejection. Nyika's article 'Ethical and Regulatory Issues Surrounding African Traditional Medicine in the Context of HIV/AIDS' looks at some of the issues from a traditional Western ethical perspective and suggests that it should be rejected. I respond to this article agreeing with Nyika's three major criticisms: lack of informed consent, confidentiality and paternalism. However, as traditional healers are consulted by over 70% of South Africans before any other type of healthcare professional, a blanket negation of TM is not possible, nor is it politically feasible. A pragmatic approach would be to work within the current structures for positive change. I point out that, as all cultural practices do, TM will change over time. Yet, until some regulations and change occur, the problem of harm to patients remains a major concern.
Inadequate dietary intake is not the cause of stunting amongst young children living in an informal settlement in Gauteng and rural Limpopo Province in South Africa: the NutriGro study.	To measure dietary intakes of young children aged 12-24 months and to determine the impact of poor diets on stunting.
Increased exposure to hepatitis B virus infection in HIV-positive South African antenatal women.	The prevalence of markers for hepatitis B virus (HBV) exposure and active infection in HIV-positive (n=710) and HIV-negative (n=710) pregnant South African women was investigated. The following statistically significant increases in the HIV-positive group were found: anti-hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc) (37.3% versus 28.6%; odds ratio [OR]: 1.49); anti-hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) (29.5% versus 20.1%; OR: 1.66); exposure based on hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and anti-HBc (39.2% versus 30.1%; OR: 1.49); and exposure based on anti-HBs, anti-HBc and HBsAg (37.1% versus 24.5%; OR: 1.82). However, there was no increase in active HBV infections, with 2.4% of the HIV positives and 2.2% of the HIV negatives being HBV DNA positive. Although the impact that HIV has had on the prevalence of HBV in this population group is not as pronounced as that found in areas of low endemicity (where up to seven-fold increases have been reported), there is a statistically significant increased exposure to HBV.
Economic empowerment and black disabled entrepreneurs: negotiating partnerships in Cape Town, South Africa.	This paper presents a second part reporting on Community Disability Entrepreneurship Project (CoDEP) which was initiated in order to contribute to the development of entrepreneurial skills of disabled people living in informal settlements around Cape Town, South Africa. The aim of CoDEP has been the upliftment and economic empowerment of disabled people. This paper describes the point of departure, the theoretical framework of participatory action research (PAR), the development of research parameters, and continued focus.
The incidence of fungi and mycotoxins in South African barley and barley products.	Barley is grown as a crop in South Africa, mainly for use in the barley beer (lager) industry, particularly in the production of barley malt. This investigation was done to find out what fungal infection and mycotoxin contamination this barley and the malt contained. The survey, done in 2005, not only covered barley and malt but also the final product in the form of several brands of beer purchased from retail outlets. Analysis was done using a range of methodologies including chromatography, immunoaffinity/fluorimetry and cytotoxicity testing. The results show that barley, which also includes barley sold directly to the public, and malt, contain various fungi, sometimes at high incidence and also a range of mycotoxins which persisted through, although at low levels, to beer. The malt showed a different pattern of micro flora, as compared to the barley, which indicates infection during the malting process, which is not uncommon. Interestingly, fumonisin B1 was found in some of the samples, as well as the beer, although in the latter case these were at very low levels. Recent studies have shown that the immunoaffinity/fluorimetry method can give false positives for the fumonisins, so these results were confirmed by high performance liquid chromatography. As is the case with other cereals grown in South Africa, there is the concern that the public is exposed to mycotoxins on a regular basis through the consumption of products made from them.
Estimating the protective concentration of anti-pneumococcal capsular polysaccharide antibodies.	Estimates of minimum protective antibody concentrations for vaccine preventable diseases are of critical importance in assessing whether new vaccines will be as effective as those for which clinical efficacy was shown directly. We describe a method for correlating pneumococcal anticapsular antibody responses of infants immunized with pneumococcal conjugate (PnC) vaccine (Prevenar) with clinical protection from invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD). Data from three double blind controlled trials in Northern Californian, American Indian and South African infants were pooled in a meta-analysis to derive a protective concentration of 0.35 microg/ml for anticapsular antibodies to the 7 serotypes in Prevenar. This concentration has been recommended by a WHO Working Group as applicable on a global basis for assessing the efficacy of future pneumococcal conjugate vaccines. The WHO Working Groups anticipated that modifications in antibody assays for pneumococcal anticapsular antibodies would occur. The principles for determining whether such assay modifications should change the protective concentration are outlined. These principles were applied to an improvement in the ELISA for anticapsular antibodies, i.e. absorption with 22F pneumococcal polysaccharide, which increases the specificity of the assay for vaccine serotype anticapsular antibodies by removing non-specific antibodies. Using sera from infants in the pivotal efficacy trial in Northern California Kaiser Permanente (NCKP), 22F absorption resulted in minimal declines in pneumococcal antibody in Prevenar immunized infants but significant declines in unimmunized controls. Recalculation of the protective concentration after 22F absorption resulted in only a small decline from 0.35 microg/ml to 0.32 microg/ml. These data support retaining the 0.35 microg/ml minimum protective concentration recommended by WHO for assessing the efficacy of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines in infants.
Utilisation of pathology procedures in the South African private pathology sector between 2003 and 2005.	To analyse the patterns of pathology procedures performed in the private pathology sector in South Africa. To determine what the differences between the individual practices are and to attempt to explain any differences.
Scutiaquinones A and B, perylenequinones from the roots of Scutia myrtina with anthelmintic activity.	Haemonchus contortus is a worm that causes serious infections in livestock. Two new perylenequinones, scutiaquinone A (1) and scutiaquinone B (2), have been isolated from a methanol extract of the roots of Scutia myrtina by bioassay-guided fractionation, using an assay that kills this parasite in vitro. The structures of compounds 1 and 2 were elucidated by analysis of their 1D- and 2D-NMR and MS spectra. The isolation, structure, and anthelmintic activities of compounds 1 and 2 are reported.
Aerosol and subcutaneous measles vaccine: measles antibody responses 6 years after re-vaccination.	There are no large-scale data on the long-term persistence of measles antibody after vaccination by the aerosol route. We therefore followed-up South African schoolchildren 6 years after their re-vaccination with Edmonston-Zagreb (EZ) and Schwarz (SW) measles vaccine given by aerosol and subcutaneous routes. Measles antibody levels and the proportion of children who were seropositive at year 6 remained significantly higher in the Edmonston-Zagreb aerosol group compared to the groups that received Schwarz or Edmonston-Zagreb vaccine subcutaneously. Measles re-vaccination by aerosol evokes a stronger and much longer lasting antibody response than injected vaccine and should thus provide more durable protection against measles.
Inhibition of rainbow trout acetylcholinesterase by aqueous and suspended particle-associated organophosphorous insecticides.	Spraydrift and edge-of-field runoff are important routes of pesticide entry into streams. Pesticide contamination originating from spraydrift usually resides in the water phase, while pesticides in contaminated runoff are to a large extent associated with suspended particles (SPs). The effects of two organophosphorous insecticides (OPs), chloropyrifos (CPF) and azinphos-methyl (AZP), on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in rainbow trout were compared between two exposure scenarios, simulating spraydrift- and runoff-borne contamination events in the Lourens River (LR), Western Cape, South Africa. NOECs of brain AChE inhibition, determined after 1h of exposure followed by 24h of recovery, were 0.33microgl(-1) for aqueous CPF, 200mgkg(-1) for SP-associated CPF and 20mgkg(-1) for SP-associated AZP (at 0.5gl(-1) SP). The highest aqueous AZP concentration tested (3.3microgl(-1)) was without significant effects. Previously reported peak levels of aqueous CPF in the LR ( approximately 0.2microgl(-1)) are close to its NOEC (this study), suggesting a significant toxicological risk to fish in the LR. By contrast, reported levels of SP-associated OPs in the LR are 20-200-fold lower than their NOECs (this study). In a comparative in situ study, trout were exposed for seven days at agricultural (LR2, LR3) and upstream reference (LR1) sites. No runoff occurred during the study. Brain AChE was significantly inhibited at LR3. However, OP levels at LR3 (CPF 0.01microgl(-1); AZP 0.14microgl(-1)) were minor compared to concentrations having effects in the laboratory (see above). Additionally, muscle AChE activity was significantly higher in caged trout from LR1 than in animals maintained in laboratory tanks.
Individuals in foraging groups may use vocal cues when assessing their need for anti-predator vigilance.	Many studies of social species have reported variation in the anti-predator vigilance behaviour of foraging individuals depending on the presence and relative position of other group members. However, little attention has focused on how foragers assess these variables. It is commonly assumed that they do so visually, but many social species produce frequent calls while foraging, and these 'close' calls might provide valuable spatial information. Here, we show that foraging pied babblers (Turdoides bicolor) are less vigilant when in larger groups, in the centre of a group and in closer proximity to another group member. We then show that foragers are less vigilant during playbacks of close calling by more individuals and individuals on either side of them when compared with calls of fewer individuals and calls on one side of them. These results suggest that foragers can use vocal cues to gain information on group size and their spatial position within a group. Future studies of anti-predator vigilance should consider the relative importance of both visual and vocal monitoring of group members.
A detailed larval salivary gland polytene chromosome photomap for Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae) from Johannesburg, South Africa.	The suitability of polytene chromosomes for population genetic and in situ DNA physical mapping was investigated in Johannesburg, South Africa, Culex quinquefasciatus Say and Culex pipiens L.. The most defined and consistent polytene spreads were obtained from salivary glands of early fourth instars from Cx. quinquefasciatus. A photomap is provided for a Cx. quinquefasciatus colony originating from Johannesburg. Variations in banding patterns, chromosome aberrations, and paracentric inversions within the colony and comparisons with previous published descriptions are discussed. Chromosomes of sufficient quality were obtained such that a DNA coding for an odorant binding protein could be mapped by colorimetric in situ hybridization.
Reasons for inconsistent condom use by rural South African high school students.	To describe the condom use practices of high school students, compare the beliefs of students who used condoms with those who did not, investigate gender differences in condom use and identify factors that prevent condom use.
Lead in paint: three decades later and still a hazard for African children?	Surveys undertaken in South Africa have shown that a large proportion of children are exposed to lead from a variety of sources.
Three species of Skrjabinelazia Sypliaxov, 1930 (Nematoda: Seuratidae) parasitic in Gekkonidae and Lacertidae from South Africa, Europe and Australia.	Skrjabinelazia Sypliaxov, 1930 comprises 10 species distinguished by several characters typical of the genus including, among the most important, the presence/absence of spicules, cuticle ornamentation and vesicles, head-shape, the presence/absence of a leaflet crown in the buccal cavity, female tail-shape and male cone-shape. The three samples studied are new species: S. boomkeri n. sp., a parasite of Pachydactylus turneri, Gekkonidae, from South Africa (Klaserie Reserve); S. vozae n. sp., a parasite of Lacerta vivipara, Lacertidae, from France (Cévennes), which is close to two lacertid parasites, S. taurica Sypliaxov, 1930 and L. hoffmanni Li, 1934, respectively from the Crimea and North China (Peking); and S. mawsangelae n. sp. (male unknown), a parasite of Christinus marmoratus, Gekkonidae, from Australia (Pearson Island), which is, surprisingly, distinct from Skrjabinelazia sp. of Angel & Mawson (1968) from the same host in another region (North of Adelaide) of South Australia. Two main groups are distinguished in Skrjabinelazia: the species with spicules which are parasitic in the Lacertidae, and the species with a gubernaculum only which are parasitic in the Gekkonidae. The unique species described from the Iguanidae, S. intermedia (Freitas, 1940) from Brazil (Para), also without spicules, seems to be derived from gekkonid parasites, as it also has an evolved oesophagus with a glandular region, unlike the simple oesophagus seen in the larval stages of Skrjabinelazia.
Infection control practices in public dental care services: findings from one South African Province.	Infection control practices which increase the risk of blood-borne virus transmission with associated dental practice in one South African province were studied. All 24 state dental clinics were observed for adequate provision to carry out good infection prevention and control (IPC) practice, 75 staff including dentists, nurses and dental assistants were interviewed to assess IPC knowledge and 23 dental procedures were observed. Significant findings were the difference between knowledge and practice, despite adequate provisions for safe infection control practice. The lack of protective eye wear during a dental procedure, not washing hands between patients, not disassembling an item prior to disinfection or sterilization, and not using a sterile drill for each patient were identified. A rapid method for detection of occult blood was used as a marker for inadequate IPC practice. Contaminated dental items of equipment just prior to patient use in 25% of equipment tested and 37% of surfaces and surrounding areas in the dental clinics and units were recorded. This study concludes that, despite provision for safe dental practice available in state dental clinics, there was a lack of knowledge application in clinical practice. The risk of blood-borne virus transmission in a population with high human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevalence cannot be ignored.
Predictors of dual method use for pregnancy and HIV prevention among adolescent South African women.	Dual contraceptive method use is advocated for adolescent women to prevent pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases and HIV.
HLA antigens in donovanosis (granuloma inguinale).	To compare the frequencies of HLA antigens in patients with donovanosis and in controls.
Productivity of pure- and crossbred cattle in a subtropical environment.	The influence of different breeds of sire and dam types on cow productivity in an arid, subtropical environment was studied. Cows with calves sired by Simmentaler, Hereford and Bonsmara bulls were more (P less than 0.05) productive than those with calves sired by Afrikaner bulls. Simmentaler sires were superior (P less than 0.05) to Bonsmara sires. Crossbred cows of predominant (greater than 50%) Bos taurus breeding were generally superior to crossbreds of predominant B. indicus breeding and purebreds. Crossbreeding systems to utilize breed effects to optimise cow productivity within environmental constraints are discussed.
Unmet health, welfare and educational needs of disabled children in an impoverished South African peri-urban township.	Childhood disability in South Africa has failed to receive adequate attention from governmental agencies, such as the health, education and social welfare departments, despite there being more than 1 million disabled children in the country. This study sought to assess the unmet rehabilitation, education and welfare needs of disabled children living in a peri-urban township.
Caregiver experiences, contextualizations and understandings of the burn injury to their child. Accounts from low-income settings in South Africa.	Childhood burn injury is a widespread phenomenon with a disproportionate concentration in Sub-Saharan Africa. Burn injuries may have far-reaching and traumatic interpersonal, social and occupational effects for young children. There has been scant attention to the caregiver's experience of these events. This study sought to explore the caregiver's understanding of the injury to their children, the injury causes and its preventability.
Significance of diet type and diet quality for ecological diversity of African ungulates.	1. We test two nutritional hypotheses for the ecological diversity of ungulates, the browser/grazer (diet type) and diet quality models, among free-ranging herbivores in a South African savanna, the Kruger National Park. Tests are based on assessment of relationships between diet type and diet quality with body mass and hypsodonty, two morphological features that have been associated with both elements. 2. We use stable carbon isotope ratios of faeces to reconstruct diet in terms of proportions of C(3) plants (browse) and C(4) plants (grass) consumed by different species in different seasons. These data are combined with proxies for diet quality (per cent nitrogen, neutral detergent fibre, acid detergent fibre, and acid detergent lignin) from faeces to track changes in diet quality. 3. Two statistical approaches are used in model selection, i.e. tests of significant correlations based on linear regression analyses, and an information-theory approach (Akaike's Information Criterion) providing insight into strength of evidence for models. 4. Results of both methods show that, contrary to many predictions, body mass and diet type are not related, but these data confirm predictions that diet quality decreases with increasing body size, especially during the dry season. Hypsodonty, as expected, varies with diet type, increasing with increased grass intake. 5. These findings support both a diet type and diet quality model, implying some degree of exclusivity. We propose that congruence between models may be achieved through addition of diet quality proxies not included here, because hypsodonty is more likely a reflection of the abrasive properties of consumed foods, i.e. related to food quality, rather than food type. This implies that adaptation to diets of varying quality, through changes in body size and dental features, has been the primary mechanism for diversification in ungulates. 6. Our interpretation contrasts with several recent studies advocating diet type as the primary factor, exemplifying that further reconciliation between the two models is needed. We discuss the implications of this study for future approaches to achieve a more cohesive understanding of the evolutionary outcomes of herbivore nutrition.
A comparison of women's, providers' and ultrasound assessments of pregnancy duration among termination of pregnancy clients in South Africa.	To compare providers' and women's estimates of duration of pregnancy with ultrasound estimates for determining medical abortion eligibility.
'Dying twice': a multi-level model of the roots of AIDS stigma in two South African communities.	We highlight the complex interplay of psychological and social factors driving AIDS stigma, drawing on a study of community responses to HIV/AIDS in two communities in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. We draw on 120 semi-structured interviews and focus groups, in which open-ended topic guides were used to explore community responses to HIV/AIDS. Drivers of stigma included fear; the availability and relevance of AIDS-related information; the lack of social spaces to engage in dialogue about HIV/AIDS; the link between HIV/AIDS, sexual moralities and the control of women and young people; the lack of adequate HIV/AIDS management services; and the way in which poverty shaped people's reactions to HIV/AIDS. We discuss the implications of our findings for stigma-reduction programmes.
Treatment adherence among primary care patients in a historically disadvantaged community in South Africa: a qualitative study.	The present study examined the issue of treatment adherence among a sample of 23 rural South African patients living with either hypertension or diabetes, or both. The sample was asked to participate in qualitative interviews that asked about various aspects of their experience of their illness and treatment. The analysis of the data focused on the content of participants' concerns and difficulties with adhering to treatment recommendations. The themes that emerged from the study were participants' attribution of the origin of their illness, their subjective experience of their illness, their concerns about the consequences of poor adherence, financial problems and psychosocial support.
One step forward, two steps back--requiring ministerial approval for all "non-therapeutic" health research involving minors.	The new National Health Act has clarified that children may take part in "non-therapeutic" research (NTR) and the age at which they may provide independent consent to such research, viz. at legal majority. However, the Act will require consent from the Minister of Health for all research classed as NTR and involving minors regardless of the level of risk. This requirement is overly broad. It will require that low-risk research without direct benefits, which might be adequately reviewed by an accredited research ethics committee (REC), must also be reviewed by the Minister. As it currently stands this requirement serves no plausible ethical purpose, will cause delays and discourage essential research on the needs of children, and may inspire researchers and RECs alike to "foil the system". We argue that in the long term there should be comprehensive law reform for child research. However, in the short term, amendments should be made to the Act to narrow the scope of this provision. The amendment should require ministerial consent for research that is currently not approvable by an REC in terms of national ethical guidelines, namely, research that does not hold out direct benefit but presents more than a minor increase over minimal risk. If our law reform recommendations are rejected, we favour the delegation of this task to RECs because, if they receive appropriate training, they should be competent to conduct it. We accept the disadvantages, namely that the same body will review protocols twice from slightly different perspectives and that certain categories of research will remain unapprovable.
Cervical spine injury outcome--a review of 101 cases treated in a tertiary referral unit.	Cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating event for the patient and family. It has a huge impact on society because of the intensive resources required to manage the patient in both the acute and rehabilitation phases. Given the resource-limited setting in South Africa, questions are often raised regarding whether the outcome of this group of patients justifies the expense of their care. However local data have not been available to date.
Effects of the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act of 1999 on restaurant revenues in South Africa--a survey approach.	To investigate the impact of the restrictions on smoking in indoor public places on the financial situation of the hospitality industry.
Relationship between fluid management, changes in serum sodium and outcome in hypernatraemia associated with gastroenteritis.	To describe the relationship between fluid management, serum sodium and outcome in critically ill children with hypernatraemic gastroenteritis.
Protective effect against type 2 diabetes mellitus identified within the ACDC gene in a black South African diabetic cohort.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D) is currently one of the fastest growing noncommunicable diseases in the world. It is induced by the pathogenic interaction between insulin resistance and secretion. This group of clinically heterogeneous disorders currently affects approximately 4% of the general population, but it is rapidly increasing, especially in developing regions such as sub-Saharan Africa. During this investigation, a diabetic (n = 227) and control cohort (n = 226) of adult black South African individuals were screened for the reported single nucleotide polymorphisms, termed C-11377G and G-11391A, within the promoter of the adiponectin (ACDC) gene. Genotyping was achieved via a real-time polymerase chain reaction method. It was determined that the variant allele at G-11391A as well as the 12 haplotype was significantly associated with a protective factor with regard to T2D susceptibility. The low frequency of this variant within the cohorts investigated indicated a minor role in decreasing disease susceptibility. It may not be a significant disease risk factor in itself, but may assist in elucidating the mechanism of disease susceptibility. When compared to various non-African populations, it becomes apparent that the investigated single nucleotide polymorphisms have differential effects depending on the population investigated. This investigation therefore underscores the genetic heterogeneity at T2D susceptibility loci within the black South African population.
Antimicrobial susceptibility profile of selected bacteraemic pathogens from private institutions in South Africa.	The National Antimicrobial Surveillance Forum is a continuous surveillance organisation comprising all academic/public and private sector laboratories in South Africa.
A survey of hypertensive practices at two community health centres in Cape Town.	Control of hypertension remains an elusive goal, but doctors' non-compliance with guidelines, patient attitudes and adherence to treatment, and poor delivery of care at clinics are important contributing factors.
Drug use and its association with deviant behaviour among rural adolescent students in South Africa.	To examine prevalence of drug use in adolescent students in a rural South African community, and to measure the association between drug taking and deviant behaviour.
FAME 3: a novel form of progressive myoclonus and epilepsy.	Familial adult myoclonic epilepsy (FAME) is associated with myoclonus, tremor, and rare seizures, and is a nonprogressive disorder linked to the FAME 1 locus. A similar disorder has been linked to the FAME 2 locus.
Risk and protective factors for psychological well-being of children orphaned by AIDS in Cape Town: a qualitative study of children and caregivers' perspectives.	By 2020, an estimated 2.3 million South African children will be orphaned by HIV/AIDS (Actuarial Society of South Africa, 2005), but little is known about risk and protective factors for their emotional and behavioural well-being. This qualitative study explores perspectives of affected families. Orphaned children (n = 60), caregivers of orphaned children (n = 42) and social care professionals (n = 20) completed semi-structured interviews and focus groups. Participants were recruited from schools, shelters and welfare services. Findings from multiple sources indicate potential risk and protective factors in a range of dimensions, including bereavement, family functioning, social support, poverty, access to education and perceived stigma. Many factors reflected international literature on children experiencing similar stressors (e.g. non HIV/AIDS-related bereavement). However, this study also identified factors which may be specific to this group, notably stigma, abuse and peer factors. Current research is quantitatively testing associations between these identified factors and psychological outcomes.
Africa's orphan crisis: two community-based models of care.	The AIDS epidemic has created a crisis for children, severely threatening the health and development of children whose parents are ill, have died and whose communities have lost a large percentage of their adults. Even when extended family can serve as guardians, their need to work in the context of widespread poverty decreases the amount of time they are able to spend with children. Other children live in child-headed households or with seniors unable to provide adequate care. Relative to the size of the need there are few interventions that provide support to orphans in sub-Saharan Africa. We report on two different models of community-based care that have emerged to fill this caregiving gap, and highlight the relative advantages of each. These programmes, one centralized and the other decentralized, are an effective means of caring for orphans and could be scaled up in other communities to meet the magnitude of the crisis.
HIV testing and disclosure: a qualitative analysis of TB patients in South Africa.	In South Africa, more than 60% of TB patients have HIV co-infection. Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) is critical to effective HIV prevention, and TB facilities are optimal venues for delivery of these services. This study employed qualitative research methods to explore the decision-making processes for HIV testing and serostatus disclosure by 21 patients hospitalized with multi/extensively-drug resistant TB (M/XDR-TB) in Durban, KwaZulu Natal. Data collected from in-depth interviews characterized 3 broad themes: HIV testing history, experiences and perceptions of stigma and disclosure, and the relationship between TB and HIV/AIDS. Fear of AIDS-related stigma, the singular stress of TB infection, the absence of partner's consent, asymptomatic or incurable disease, and uncertainty about subsequent eligibility for antiretroviral treatment while still receiving TB treatment were identified as potential barriers to the uptake of VCT. HIV serostatus disclosure was impeded by the felt stigma of a 'discreditable' infection, manifested by social rejection and discrimination. The public disclosure of TB illness helped relieve some co-infected patients' overall burden of stigma through a process of 'covering'. HIV prevention [corrected] measures such as VCTare likely to be more effective within TB facilities if greater sensitivity is paid to TB patients' specific social issues and perceptions. These patients are not only at greater risk for HIV co-infection but also for experiencing the double stigma of TB and HIV/AIDS.
Drinking guidelines for exercise: what evidence is there that athletes should drink "as much as tolerable", "to replace the weight lost during exercise" or "ad libitum"?	The most recent (1996) drinking guidelines of the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) propose that athletes should drink "as much as tolerable" during exercise. Since some individuals can tolerate rates of free water ingestion that exceed their rates of free water loss during exercise, this advice has caused some to overdrink leading to water retention, weight gain and, in a few, death from exercise-associated hyponatraemic encephalopathy. The new drinking guidelines of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), recently re-published in this Journal, continue to argue that athletes must drink enough to replace all their weight lost during exercise and to ingest sodium chloride since sodium is "the electrolyte most critical to performance and health". In this rebuttal to that Consensus Document, I argue that these new guidelines, like their predecessors, lack an adequate, scientifically proven evidence base. Nor have they been properly evaluated in appropriately controlled, randomized, prospective clinical trials. In particular, these new guidelines provide erroneous recommendations on five topics. If novel universal guidelines for fluid ingestion during exercise are to be promulgated by important international bodies including the IOC, they should first be properly evaluated in appropriately controlled, randomized, prospective clinical trials conducted under environmental and other conditions that match those found in "out-of-doors" exercise. This, and the potential influence of commercial interests on scientific independence and objectivity, are the two most important lessons to be learned from the premature adoption of those 1996 ACSM drinking guidelines that are not evidence-based. These concerns need to be addressed before the novel IOC guidelines are accepted uncritically. Otherwise the predictable consequences of the premature adoption of the 1996 ACSM guidelines will be repeated.
Veterinary education in South Africa: the classes of 1928 and 1929.	The available photographs of the Classes of 1928 and 1929 are confusing because they not only bear the same date (1929) but are also composed of individual shots of the graduates rather than the customary group photograph. An answer to the riddle was provided by the presence of J A Thorburn (a member of the Class of 1927) who was a 'super' and qualified in 1928, in the one photograph, together with M C Robinson who also graduated in 1928. The photograph dated 1929 on which 4 graduates and the Dean, Prof. Dr P J du Toit, appear is that of the Class of 1928. The other photograph dated 1929 in which the Dean is absent is therefore dated correctly. Concise descriptions are given of the life histories of the nine graduates. Their careers show considerable variation. Only one of them spent his entire career at the Onderstepoort Research Institute as a very eminent research scientist and professor, and two became well-known professors at the Onderstepoort Faculty. Two were in municipal service for most of their careers and a third ended up working for a municipal authority after spending some time in England and at the Onderstepoort Research Institute. Two spent virtually their entire careers in the field as state veterinarians and a third farmed for most of his career, although he also dabbled in private practice and managed one of the provincial game parks in Natal (now KwaZulu-Natal) for some time. Four served in the South African Veterinary Corps during World War II.
Evaluation of the mineral status of cattle on communal grazing in the North West Province of South Africa.	Twenty five cattle were randomly selected from a herd of animals grazing communally around Mogosane village in the North West Province to evaluate their mineral status based on blood and faecal analysis. Mean faecal phosphorus (P) concentration was curvilinear, increasing from July (0.99 mg/g) to December (3.63 mg/g) and decreasing to 1.29 mg/g in June. Mean P concentration in grass was also curvilinear, increasing from July (0.87 mg/g) to January (1.8 mg/g) and decreasing to 0.9 mg/g in June. There was a high correlation (r2 = 0.89) between faecal and grass P concentrations. Faecal:grass P ratios suggest that the animals were conserving P by reducing faecal P excretion during times of low dietary P. Animals maintained consistent but very low serum inorganic P (SiP) throughout the year (range 1.33-1.95 mg%) and SiP was not correlated with either faecal or grass P. Mean faecal and grass calcium (Ca) concentrations followed a similar pattern to P. There was also a positive correlation (r2 = 0.95) between grass and faecal Ca concentrations. Faecal:grass Ca ratios indicated a conservation of Ca by reducing faecal Ca when dietary Ca was low. Animals were better able to conserve dietary Ca by reducing losses in the faeces than they were P, based on a higher faecal:grass P ratio (1.56) compared with Ca (1.18). Magnesium (Mg) was lost through the faeces during times of high dietary Mg concentrations but was conserved when grass Mg was low.
Microscopic morphology of Dichapetalum cymosum (Hook.) Engl. as an aid in the identification of leaf fragments from the digestive tract of poisoned animals.	Dichapetalum cymosum (Hook.) Engl. (Poison leaf; gifblaar) is a major cause of acute livestock plant poisoning in southern Africa. Microscopic identification of leaf fragments found in the digestive tract of poisoned animals can assist in the diagnosis of poisoning when D. cymosum poisoning is suspected. The microscopic morphology of D. cymosum leaves are described using standard staining and microscopy methods for histopathology samples at many regional diagnostic laboratories. Morphological descriptions included structures in the epidermis and mesophyll that were discernible using H & E staining. The microscopic morphology of D. cymosum was used to differentiate between leaf fragments of D. cymosum and other species from the same habitat with macroscopic features that resemble those of D. cymosum, including Euclea crispa, Combretum zeyheri, Burkea afrikana and Lannea discolor.
Anaesthesia and analgesia for dogs and cats in South Africa undergoing sterilisation and with osteoarthritis--an update from 2000.	A survey was conducted in 2000 into the use of analgesic drugs by veterinarians in South Africa. This survey was repeated in 2005 to establish whether the use of analgesic drugs has increased and which analgesic drugs are being used for acute pain and osteoarthritis. The number of sterilisations performed and the number of new cases of osteoarthritis in dogs and cats was estimated. It is estimated that approximately 260000 cats are operated on each year in South Africa and that 150000 cats are sterilised. Five hundred thousand dogs undergo surgery, of which 242000 are sterilised. It appears that the number of surgical procedures performed in South Africa has decreased. The estimated death rate following anaesthesia has remained unchanged at 1:1004. Overall, the use of analgesics by South African veterinarians has increased significantly. Fifty-six per cent of cats and 74% of dogs were given peri-operative analgesics but this increased to 94% and 84% after including pre-anaesthetic medications with analgesic properties. The use of opioids (morphine and buprenorphine) and propofol has increased significantly. Approximately 253000 dogs and 33000 cats with osteoarthritis are seen by veterinarians in South Africa annually. The recognition by veterinarians of osteoarthritis in cats appears to be poor and is in need of attention. Carprofen and glucosamine/chondroitin are the most commonly used agents for the treatment of osteoarthritis. Details of the drugs used by veterinarians are given. Knowledge of analgesic drugs has increased significantly over the last 5 years. Continuing education is thought to have played an important role in the changes reported in this study.
Malabsorption of carbohydrate foods by urban blacks.	Prevalences of non-infective bowel diseases are very low in South African urban blacks compared with the white population. In seeking elucidation, using breath hydrogen measurements in series of black and white subjects, small-bowel transit time was determined, and the malabsorption of maize, wheat, and rice investigated. Median transit times in both ethnic groups were similar. Rice was fully, but wheat incompletely absorbed by both groups. Maize, the staple food of blacks, was incompletely absorbed by them, although completely absorbed by the white subjects. Carbohydrate consumption is high in the black population (60-65% of total energy intake). It is probable that in blacks, despite their now eating a low-fibre diet, an expected increase in large-bowel diseases has been inhibited in part by the protective mechanism of fermentation of malabsorbed maize and wheat.
Glycaemic responses to different carbohydrate foods in healthy and diabetic blacks in Soweto.	Diabetes mellitus is uncommon in rural southern African blacks. With urbanisation and lifestyle changes, incidence rises to that in western populations. To assess associated changes in carbohydrate metabolism, glycaemic responses to glucose, refined maize, refined rice and bread were studied in 8 healthy and 8 non-insulin-dependent diabetic urban blacks. Additionally, in the healthy group serum insulin responses were measured. In the healthy, maize (the staple food of blacks) elicited the highest glucose response (207 mmol/l/min) and bread the lowest (107 mmol/l/min). The glycaemic indices of maize and glucose were similar. Serum insulin responses to maize were significantly lower than that of bread at 90 minutes (maize 66 muU/ml; bread 93 muU/ml; P = 0.02). In diabetics, maize and glucose elicited similar glycaemia (928 mmol/l/min and 921 mmol/l/min respectively). The high glucose response to maize could relate to its processing and physical form. The low insulin secretion could be due to inadequate stimulation by the 'entero-insular' axis. Moreover, variability in glucose insulin responses could stem from ethnic or genetic reasons. In the dietary management of black diabetics, refined maize should be replaced by other cereals.
Expenditures on medicines at provincial hospitals in the Cape. A comparative analysis from 1982-1989]	Total expenditure on medicines at various hospitals within the Cape Provincial Administration (CPA) branch of hospital and health services has increased minimally in relation to the consumer price index of 1982 (CPI-1982). However, the calculated cost of medication per patient unit differed greatly between the hospitals studied. Calculations based on CPI-1982 showed the increase at Tygerberg Hospital (TBH) to be 24.3% lower than the increase in CPI. Based on the CPI-1985, the increase at TBH was 4.01% higher than the CPI increase. At another academic hospital the increase based on CPI-1982 was 35.78%, at two large non-academic hospitals it was 45.31% and 17.71% respectively, and for the CPA as a whole it was 18.83%. Direct comparisons of cost per patient unit between hospitals are inappropriate, because of the varying patient profiles and consequent differences in required treatments. However, a cost awareness programme seems to have been at least partially responsible for the variance in cost increase at TBH. A more intensive and sustained programme to encourage cost awareness in the prescribing of medicines is called for.
Women doctors in South Africa. A survey of their experience and opinions.	The proportion of women entering medical school has increased at some faculties but remains at around 20% at others. A postal survey of 2,626 women on the Medical Register of the South African Medical and Dental Council was conducted to investigate aspects related to their work. Fifty-five per cent responded, with a possible bias towards older doctors and graduates from Afrikaans-language faculties. Although a significant majority (86.5%) are in practice, about one-third (33.4%) are employed part-time and nearly one-third (29.4%) reported that they had experienced an interruption of their careers for periods of more than 5 years. Major factors relating to this wastage of medical resources identified by this study were the women's dual responsibility at home and at work, the one-time joint taxation system and discrimination in the workplace, in particular with regard to housing loans. Few women find their way into specialist practice (10.8%) [corrected], although 68.2% indicated that they would have liked to specialise. Home responsibilities (48.2%) and the structure of the curriculum (31.5%) were the commonly reported difficulties experienced with further study. In addition, the lack of part-time training and the geographical location of such facilities also played a role.
Botshabelo's vaccination survey.	This community-based survey evaluates vaccination coverage of small children and socio-economic status of their households in a randomly selected sample of a black South African township. It reveals a poverty-stricken community, where only 19% of the children surveyed were fully vaccinated. It is suggested that expansion of health infrastructures together with a co-ordinated strategy of immunisation would result in a spectacular increase in vaccination coverage.
Reproductive health care in the Gelukspan Health Ward.	Reproductive health care, namely family planning, antenatal care (ANC), labour care and postnatal care, was studied in the Gelukspan health ward of Bophuthatswana in 1985-1986. Only a minority of the women interviewed (20%) had planned their last pregnancy, but most had attended for ANC (93%) and had had supervised deliveries in a hospital or clinic (80%). Most (97%) knew of modern methods of fertility control but only a minority (37%) were using them. Planned pregnancies were more likely to be reported by married women (73% of 37 v. 9% of 173; P = 0.0000) who left school at an earlier age (16.0 +/- 5.9 years v. 17.0 +/- 3.9 years; P = 0.0462). If unmarried, women who had planned their pregnancy were more likely to be maintained by the father of the child (15% v. 4%; P = 0.0134). They were also less likely to have left school because of the pregnancy (20% v. 50%; P = 0.0001). Unmarried women with supervised deliveries are more likely to have financial support from the father of the child. Maternal school education is positively related to attendance for ANC, attendance for supervised labour and utilisation of modern methods of fertility control. There seems to be an intricate relationship between the different outcomes measured. ANC attenders were more likely to have supervised deliveries. Both groups were more likely to start attending for child health care earlier and more frequently. Our results are discussed.
Early life nutrition in the Gelukspan Health Ward.	Breast-feeding, supplementary feeding and weaning practices as well as nutrition during the second year of life were studied in 210 black primiparas, who had cared for their own children through the first year, in a poor, one-crop (maize) rural area in Bophuthatswana. The sampling strategy was similar to the one recommended by UNICEF for assessment of vaccination coverage. Only 1 child had never been breast-fed and 60% were still breast-fed at the time of the interview during the second year of life. A number of factors were detected that seem important determinants of breast-feeding behaviour, e.g. marital status and level of formal education. Early supplementary feeding and early weaning were identified as major problems. Children were weaned onto commercial feeds or low-energy-dense staples, and there was also an obvious lack of energy-dense foods (e.g. butter, coconut oil) during the second year of life. Some determinants of these practices were recorded. The data have implications for the health services and should influence social and educational policy for the area. If properly implemented, the recommendations could result in significant financial saving for the study population. The health services should promote appropriate nutritional education, starting with antenatal care, early and frequent attendance at child health services should be encouraged and education concerning nutrition should be strengthened, and health education should encourage prolonged breast-feeding, discourage the use of commercial weaning foods, and encourage the use of natural multimixes (e.g. bananas, beans, cooking oil) for weaning. The importance of energy-dense foods should be emphasised to mothers and to health workers.
Human T-lymphotropic virus type I-associated myelopathy. A case report.	Tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP) has been reported from various parts of the world for several decades. Recently reports have emerged from Japan and also countries in tropical zones associating endemic TSP with abnormally high titres of antibodies to human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I). Data indicate that this lymphotropic retrovirus is neuropathogenic, either by direct invasion or via immunopathological mechanisms. A South African man is described who met the diagnostic criteria of TSP. Both serum and cerebrospinal fluid were antibody-positive for HTLV-I. It is possible that HTLV-I infection may be implicated in the 'myelopathies of undetermined cause' that form a substantial subgroup of spinal cord disease occurring in black South Africans.
Googling "deaf": deafness in the world's English-language press.	An internet search tool, Google Alert, was used to survey the global English-language press July-December 2005 for references to deaf people. The survey found that such references focus on people who are deaf rather than the disability itself, thus demonstrating how well deaf people fit into the mainstream. Derogatory terminology such as "deaf and dumb" was rare. However, when used metaphorically, the term deaf usually had negative connotations. Implications for the public view of deaf people are considered in this context.
The menopause, hormone replacement therapy and informed consent: are women in an underresourced country adequately aware?	Recent evidence on the long-term effects of HRT have resulted in increased emphasis being placed on individualised counselling, patient choice and informed consent when managing the menopause. We assessed whether women in an underresourced country have adequate knowledge of the menopause/HRT to engage in patient - provider discussions and provide full informed consent for HRT. Specific 'knowledge scores' for the menopause and HRT were developed and utilised in structured questionnaires to determine the existing levels of knowledge in 150 women from different racial, educational and occupational backgrounds. Some 92% were aware of the menopause and 54% were aware of HRT. Specific knowledge about the menopause and HRT overall was low (39% and 38%, respectively). There was a significant association between higher education levels, race and occupational status on the knowledge of the menopause but not of HRT. Television, radio and pamphlets were the preferred sources to gain further information. There is a need to create awareness and provide further education to women in underresourced countries about the menopause and HRT to empower them to make informed choices about their health during this period.
Muscle cramping in the marathon : aetiology and risk factors.	Skeletal muscle cramps are commonly encountered in marathon runners by medical staff. However, the aetiology, and therefore management, of this condition is not well understood. Exercise-associated muscle cramping (EAMC) is defined as an involuntary, painful contraction of skeletal muscle during or immediately after exercise. In early anecdotal reports, cramps were associated with profuse sweating, together with changes in serum electrolyte concentrations. No mechanism explains how such imbalances in serum electrolytes result in localised muscle cramping. The 'muscle fatigue' hypothesis suggests that EAMC is the result of an abnormality of neuromuscular control at the spinal level in response to fatiguing exercise and is based on evidence from epidemiological studies, animal experimental data on spinal reflex activity during fatigue and electromyogram data recorded during bouts of acute cramping after fatiguing exercise. The development of premature muscle fatigue appears to explain the onset of EAMC.
The central governor model of exercise regulation applied to the marathon.	Two popular models hold that performance during exercise is limited by chemical factors acting either in the exercising muscles or in the brain producing either 'peripheral' or 'central' fatigue, respectively. A common feature of both models is that neither allows humans to 'anticipate' what will happen in the future and modify their exercise response accordingly. The peripheral fatigue model predicts that exercise terminates only after there has been catastrophic failure in one or more body systems and only when all the available motor units in the active muscles have been activated. The marathon race provides evidence that human athletes race 'in anticipation' by setting a variable pace at the start, dependent in part on the environmental conditions and the expected difficulty of the course, with the capacity to increase that pace near the finish. Marathoners also finish such races without evidence for a catastrophic failure of homeostasis characterised by the development of a state of absolute fatigue in which all the available motor units in their active muscles are recruited. These findings are best explained by the action of a central (brain) neural control that regulates performance in the marathon 'in anticipation' specifically to prevent biological harm.
History and prevalence of doping in the marathon.	Anti-doping activism represents the mainstream of the current anti-doping campaign and includes both an ethical critique of doping and a call for the sharpening of sanctions. At the same time, evolving evidence indicates that systemic doping in some sports has existed on a larger scale than most observers thought possible. Doping has historical roots in the physiological demands of extreme endurance sport. The Victorian philosophy of sportsmanship and fair competition that emphasises the importance of a capacity for self-restraint and expresses a code of honour, once associated with the gentleman ideal, is the basis of the current anti-doping movement. The problem with this focus is the assumption that there is a contradiction between high-performance endurance sports and doping practices that is not found in the historical record. Compared with the hundreds of professional cyclists who have tested positive for banned substances in recent decades, the list of offenders in the marathon is very short. At the same time, the low number of positive tests is an inadequate basis for estimating the extent of doping among elite marathon runners today. A better understanding of this phenomenon would require something like anthropological fieldwork conducted in this subculture.
Hydration in the marathon : using thirst to gauge safe fluid replacement.	Early human ancestors evolved hunting in the midday heat on the dry African savannah and developed favourable biological adaptations that permit prolonged running in the heat. These physiological adaptations must have included the capacity to sweat profusely to maintain a low body temperature when running for 4-6 hours in dry heat, an absence of adverse consequences from developing mild to moderate fluid deficits caused by sweat losses during the hunt, a serum osmolality based thirst mechanism and the ability to 'outrun their thirst' (to resist the deleterious psychological and other effects of severe thirst). Until the early 1970s, the guidelines for fluid ingestion during exercise were not to drink and are consistent with this interpretation. By 1996, guidelines stated, "individuals should be encouraged to consume the maximal amount of fluids during exercise that can be tolerated without gastrointestinal discomfort up to a rate equal to that lost from sweating," and this was interpreted by some as "to drink as much as tolerable." This article argues that humans are designed to drink just enough to maintain plasma osmolality, not necessarily bodyweight, both at rest and during exercise. Drinking to maintain bodyweight may impair exercise performance by inducing a weight penalty and may increase the probability of exercise-associated hyponatraemia in slow marathon runners.
Effect of age, polymicrobial disease, and maternal HIV status on treatment response and cause of severe pneumonia in South African children: a prospective descriptive study.	HIV-related pneumonia is the main cause of paediatric hospital admissions in southern Africa. We aimed to measure predictors of treatment failure and the cause of non-responsive pneumonia in children admitted to hospital with severe pneumonia in Durban, South Africa.
Crowd psychology in South African murder trials.	South African courts have recently accepted social psychological phenomena as extenuating factors in murder trials. In one important case, eight railway workers were convicted of murdering four strike breakers during an industrial dispute. The court accepted conformity, obedience, group polarization, deindividuation, bystander apathy, and other well-established psychological phenomena as extenuating factors for four of the eight defendants, but sentenced the others to death. In a second trial, death sentences of five defendants for the "necklace" killing of a young woman were reduced to 20 months imprisonment in the light of similar social psychological evidence. Practical and ethical issues arising from expert psychological testimony are discussed.
The determinants of health-related quality of life in urban and rural isi-Xhosa-speaking people with disabilities.	This study aimed to establish the determinants of health-related quality of life in a rural and an urban sample of Xhosa-speaking people with disability. The sample was a convenience sample and was identified through a 'snowballing' process initiated by enumerators who were all members of Disabled People South Africa. The Xhosa version of the EQ-5D was utilized and the visual analogue scale which ranges from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state) was used as the dependent measure. The sample consisted of 244 rural and 61 urban respondents, demonstrating a preponderance of physical disabilities. The urban sample reported more problems in each of the descriptor domains. The visual analogue scale score showed a bimodal distribution. The results of the multiple regression analysis indicated that the presence of pain detracted most from health-related quality of life (-20%), followed by anxiety and depression (-10%), and difficulty with performance of usual activities (-10%). Rural participants, with the same impairment level, reported 8% poorer health-related quality of life. The mean visual analogue scale scores were low (in the 60s), and would indicate that the majority of people living with disability do not necessarily adapt to their functional limitations and continue to experience diminished health-related quality of life. The bimodal distribution, however, did indicate that some respondents enjoyed good health-related quality of life. There is a need to manage symptoms, particularly pain and depression, as these have a severe negative impact on health-related quality of life. The rural setting seemed to contribute to a worse perceived health-related quality of life. This effect needs to be factored in when evaluating programmes.
Field and laboratory correlates of performance in competitive cross-country mountain bikers.	We designed a laboratory test with variable fixed intensities to simulate cross-country mountain biking and compared this to more commonly used laboratory tests and mountain bike performance. Eight competitive male mountain bikers participated in a cross-country race and subsequently did six performance tests: an individual outdoor time trial on the same course as the race and five laboratory tests. The laboratory tests were as follows: an incremental cycle test to fatigue to determine peak power output; a 26-min variable fixed-intensity protocol using an electronically braked ergometer followed immediately by a 1-km time trial using the cyclist's own bike on an electronically braked roller ergometer; two 52-min variable fixed-intensity protocols each followed by a 1-km time trial; and a 1-km time trial done on its own. Outdoor competition time and outdoor time trial time correlated significantly (r = 0.79, P < 0.05). Both outdoor tests correlated better with peak power output relative to body mass (both r = -0.83, P < 0.05) than absolute peak power output (outdoor competition: r = -0.65; outdoor time trial: r = -0.66; non-significant). Outdoor performance times did not correlate with the laboratory tests. We conclude that cross-country mountain biking is similar to uphill or hilly road cycling. Further research is required to design sport-specific tests to determine the remaining unexplained variance in performance.
Carbonaceous cherts in the Barberton greenstone belt and their significance for the study of early life in the Archean record.	The 3.5-3.2 Ga old volcano-sedimentary succession of the Barberton greenstone belt (South Africa) is characterized by lithological units that are repeated in a regular manner. Komatiitic, basaltic, and dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic sequences are capped by zones of silica enrichment, followed by bedded carbonaceous cherts. Stratiform and crosscutting carbonaceous chert veins are common in silica alteration zones and bedded cherts. A detailed field study of several chert horizons and chert veins that range in age from 3.47 to 3.30 Ga revealed the importance of syndepositional hydrothermal activity for their origin. Bedded cherts consist of silicified detrital and tuffaceous sediments that were deposited on the seafloor. Silicification took place at the sediment-water interface as a result of diffuse upflow of low-temperature hydrothermal fluids, which gave rise to the formation of impermeable chert caps. Fluid overpressure resulted in the breaching of the cap rocks at times. Chert veins contain angular host rock fragments, replace wall rocks, and show evidence of multiple vein fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of vein fillings. They represent hydraulic fractures that were initiated by overpressuring of the hydrothermal system. The vein networks were infilled, partly by hydrothermal chert precipitates, and partly by still unconsolidated (not yet silicified) sedimentary material derived from overlying sedimentary horizons. Field, petrographic, isotopic, and trace element evidence indicate that most carbonaceous matter represents sedimentary material that originated by biogenic processes in the Archean oceans and not by hydrothermal processes in the subsurface.
Promoting the integration of quality palliative care: the South African Mentorship Program.	This article provides a brief outline of the HIV/AIDS situation in South Africa and the development of the Hospice Palliative Care Association (HPCA) as the background to an exploration of the changing face of palliative care in light of the demands of HIV/AIDS. It describes the South African Palliative Care Mentorship Program, including a description of the Integrated Community-Based Home Care (ICHC) model and its promotion of collaboration with the formal health care sector and other networking partners. The role mentorship played in its application to HPCA member hospices in response to the increasing demands of HIV/AIDS is outlined. The article also focuses on the development of provincial and regional mentorship capacity, the establishment of provincial palliative care development teams, the development of comprehensive palliative care standards, and the link between mentorship and accreditation. The key results of the promotion of the ICHC model and the effects of the mentorship program are highlighted, including possibilities for the expansion of the model beyond its original context in South Africa. The difficult issue of sustainability within an African context is also mentioned. In conclusion, there is a challenge to readers to explore the use of mentorship within their own palliative care settings.
Palliative medicine teaching program at the University of Cape Town: integrating palliative care principles into practice.	The article describes the development of the postgraduate palliative medicine programs at the University of Cape Town (UCT) through collaboration with the Palliative Medicine Division from the University of Wales College of Medicine in Cardiff, United Kingdom. The course is presented as a distance-learning program supported by web-based learning with three face-to-face teaching sessions during the course. UCT recognized the urgent need to assist African doctors in developing the medical skills required to care for an ever-increasing population of patients and their families who are faced with terminal illness and the physical, emotional, psychosocial, and spiritual distress associated with end-of-life issues. Since 2001, 139 postgraduate students have registered for the course, 10% of whom are from African countries other than South Africa. Using the experience from UCT in distance-learning programs, the Hospice Palliative Care Association developed an interdisciplinary course, "Introduction to Palliative Care." This course recognizes that, although improvement in patient care and palliative care will come as undergraduate training in palliative care is established, it is essential that previously qualified health care professionals are able to enhance their palliative care knowledge, skills, and attitudes. Trainers provide support to participants over a six-month period and assist in the transference of knowledge and skills into the workplace.
Medication abortion in the private sector in South Africa.	To collect information about how private physicians in South Africa provide medication abortion services to their patients.
Exposure assessment for fumonisins in the former Transkei region of South Africa.	The fumonisins are mycotoxins produced mainly by Fusarium verticillioides and F. proliferatum in maize, the predominant cereal staple for subsistence farming communities in southern Africa. In order to assess exposure to these mycotoxins in the Bizana (now known as Mbizana) and Centane magisterial areas of the former Transkei region of the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa, the actual maize consumption by different age groups in these communities was measured. In the groups 1-9 years (n = 215) and 10-17 (n = 240) years, mean consumption (+/-standard error) was 246 +/- 10.8 and 368 +/- 10.3 g per person day(-1), respectively, with no significant difference (p > 0.05) between the magisterial areas. For adults (18-65 years) mean maize consumption in Bizana (n = 229) and Centane (n = 178) were significantly different (p < 0.05) at 379 +/- 10.5 and 456 +/- 11.9 g per person day(-1), respectively. An exposure assessment was performed by combining the maize consumption distribution with previously determined levels of total fumonisin (fumonisins B(1) and B(2) combined) contamination in home-grown maize in these two areas. Assuming an individual adult body weight of 60 kg, fumonisin exposure in Bizana, an area of relatively low oesophageal cancer incidence, was 3.43 +/- 0.15 microg kg(-1) body weight day(-1), which was significantly lower (p < 0.05) than that in Centane (8.67 +/- 0.18 microg kg(-1) body weight day(-1)), an area of high oesophageal cancer incidence. Mean fumonisin exposures in all age groups in both Bizana and Centane were above the provisional maximum tolerable daily intake (PMTDI) of 2 microg kg(-1) body weight day(-1) set by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives.
Investigation of patulin contamination in apple juice sold in retail outlets in Italy and South Africa.	A study of apple juice products sold in Italy and South Africa was initially carried out on 20 samples bought in Cesena, Italy, and Tygerberg in Cape Town, South Africa. The samples were bought at random and analysed for patulin contamination. All 12 of the Italian samples had no detectable levels of patulin, except one, which was just slightly above the lowest regulatory limit of 10 ng ml(-1). On the other hand, five of the eight South African samples were all contaminated with patulin levels above 10 ng ml(-1), with one showing a concentration of 75 ng ml(-1), well above the highest regulated limit of 50 ng ml(-1). This latter result led to a more targeted investigation with 14 samples being purchased in the low-income areas of Tygerberg where the initial samples were sourced. These samples confirmed that there might be a problem of mycotoxin contamination in apple juices products sold to low-income consumers because half of the samples showed patulin contamination of which four had levels well above the acceptable limits. This is the first study in South Africa to look at apple juice products in low-income areas and it points to a need to intervene and introduce quality systems in the supply chain of the manufacture and packaging of apple juice products by independent small business.
Browsing lawns? Responses of Acacia nigrescens to ungulate browsing in an African savanna.	We measured browsing-induced responses of Acacia trees to investigate "browsing lawns" as an analogy to grazing lawns in a semiarid eutrophic African savanna. During the two-year field study, we measured plant tolerance, resistance, and phenological traits, while comparing variation in leaf nitrogen and specific leaf area (SLA) across stands of Acacia nigrescens, Miller, that had experienced markedly different histories of attack from large herbivores. Trees in heavily browsed stands developed (1) tolerance traits such as high regrowth abilities in shoots and leaves, high annual branch growth rates, extensive tree branching and evidence of internal N translocation, and (2) resistance traits such as close thorn spacing. However, phenological "escape" responses were weak even in heavily browsed stands. Overall, browsing strongly affected plant morpho-functional traits and decreased both the number of trees carrying pods and the number of pods per tree in heavily browsed stands. Hence, there is experimental evidence that tolerance and resistance traits may occur simultaneously at heavily browsed sites, but this comes at the expense of reproductive success. Such tolerance and resistance traits may coexist if browsers trigger and maintain a positive feedback loop in which trees are continually investing in regrowth (tolerance), and if the plant's physical defenses (resistance) are not nutritionally costly and are long-lived. Our results confirm that chronic browsing by ungulates can maintain A. nigrescens trees in a hedged state that is analogous to a grazing lawn. Further research is needed to fully understand the long-term effects of chronic browsing on reproduction within such tree populations, as well as the overall effects on nutrient cycling at the ecosystem level.
Relevance of rangeland degradation in semiarid northeastern South Africa to the nonequilibrium theory.	According to the nonequilibrium theory, livestock grazing has a limited effect on long-term vegetation productivity of semiarid rangelands, which is largely determined by rainfall. The communal lands in northeastern South Africa contain extensive degraded areas which have been mapped by the National Land Cover (NLC) program. Much evidence suggests that long-term heavy grazing is the cause of this degradation. In order to test for the prevalence of nonequilibrium dynamics, we determined the relative effects of rainfall- and grazing-induced degradation on vegetation productivity. The vegetation production in the NLC degraded areas was estimated using growth-season sums of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (sigmaNDVI), calculated using data from both the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) (1985-2003) and Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) (2000-2005). On average, rainfall and degradation accounted for 38% and 20% of the AVHRR sigmaNDVI variance and 50% and 33% of the MODIS sigmaNDVI variance, respectively. Thus, degradation had a significant influence on long-term vegetation productivity, and therefore the rangelands did not behave according to the nonequilibrium model, in which grazing is predicted to have a negligible long-term impact.
Assessment of bleeding after concomitant administration of antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents in lower limb arthroplasty.	In an analysis of the Melagatran Thrombosis Prophylaxis in Orthopedic Surgery (METHRO) III study, we evaluated whether concomitant administration of aspirin (ASA) and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) with the direct thrombin inhibitor melagatran/ximelagatran or the low-molecular-weight heparin enoxaparin increased bleeding in patients undergoing major joint surgery. Further objectives were to compare the influence of the timing of initial postoperative administration of melagatran/ximelagatran on bleeding in orthopedic patients receiving ASA/NSAIDs and in comparison with the preoperative administration of enoxaparin. ASA or NSAIDs in conjunction with melagatran/ximelagatran or enoxaparin did not increase bleeding. Bleeding rates were not significantly different, irrespective of the timing of the initial postoperative dose of melagatran/ximelagatran (4-8 vs. 4-12 h) when compared with preoperative (12 h) administration of enoxaparin. Transfusion rates were significantly lower with administration of melagatran/ximelagatran compared with enoxaparin.
Body figure preference in South African adolescent females: a cross cultural study.	Eating disorders have traditionally been associated with the white community in South Africa. The emergence of eating disorders among blacks in the mid 1990's appeared to signal a demographic shift. Subsequent data suggested that eating disorders would increase in prevalence amongst black South Africans.
Translation and cross-cultural adaptation of a mental health battery in an African setting.	Standardised measuring instruments are increasingly used in psychiatric research cross-culturally. These instruments are considered to be culturally equivalent when all forms of biases, or social norms specific to the culture of origin, have been removed.
Predicting hypothetical willingness to participate (WTP) in a future phase III HIV vaccine trial among high-risk adolescents.	The present study sought to determine whether the Theory of Planned Behaviour predicted stated hypothetical willingness to participate (WTP) in future Phase III HIV vaccine trials among South African adolescents. Hierarchical logistic regression analyses showed that The Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB) significantly predicted WTP. Of all the predictors, Subjective norms significantly predicted WTP (OR = 1.19, 95% C.I. = 1.06-1.34). A stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that Subjective Norms (OR = 1.19, 95% C.I. = 1.07-1.34) and Attitude towards participation in an HIV vaccine trial (OR = 1.32, 95% C.I. = 1.00-1.74) were significant predictors of WTP. The addition of Knowledge of HIV vaccines and HIV vaccine trials, Perceived self-risk of HIV infection, Health-promoting behaviours and Attitudes towards HIV/AIDS yielded non-significant results. These findings provide support for the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) and suggest that psychosocial factors may play an important role in WTP in Phase III HIV vaccine trials among adolescents.
A medical device regulatory framework - case study: South Africa.	The regulation of medical devices is well-established in industrialized countries, with increasing global standardization and harmonization. In developing and resource-poor countries, however, there is a much greater degree of variability and implementation. For such countries, this paper suggests a comprehensive and integrated regulatory framework approach using the South African health technology policy framework as a basis for comparison and benchmarking. It is hoped that this compact model, which covers a wide range of HTM-related aspects, will be useful to governments and their partners, amongst other role-players.
Profile and associated factors for re-admitted epileptic patients with complications in a South African hospital.	The profile and associated factors for re-admitted epileptic patients with complications was determined. Repeated re-admission to Komani Hospital initiated the study to identify preventable factors aimed at reducing readmission of these patients.
Integration of hepatitis B vaccination into rural African primary health care programmes.	To determine the efficacy of hepatitis B vaccine when added to the routine expanded programme on immunisation under field conditions in rural Africa.
Shift in genomic RNA patterns of human rotaviruses isolated from white children in South Africa.	The molecular epidemiology of rotavirus infection in white children in Pretoria was investigated over a 2-year period. Rotavirus-positive specimens from 322 infants and young children submitted to private pathology laboratories were analysed by polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis of the viral RNA. A predominance of long RNA profiles occurred and a temporal shift in the genomic patterns was identified. An epidemic of the classic shorter RNA profiles (suggestive of sub-group I rotaviruses) was observed in the winter of 1987, although these viruses were found less frequently than the sub-group II isolates (with a long RNA profile). Most neonatal isolates of rotaviruses exhibited a similar RNA electrophoretype, indicating that this strain of rotavirus was nosocomially acquired in different maternity units in the city.
Improving quantitation of malaria parasite burden with digital image analysis.	Quantitation of malaria parasite burden has prognostic value as well as providing objective evidence of response to treatment or, potentially, to vaccination against malaria. Estimation of parasite load by microscopy is prone to inaccuracy and inconsistency. Digital image analysis is well suited to this application rather than to the more difficult task of malaria diagnosis and species identification. Preliminary work has shown the feasibility of using off-the-shelf hardware and software. Standardised banks of slides for comparing human and machine counts, cheaper imaging methods for laboratories with limited resources, and customisation of readily available image analysis software are proposed as priority needs.
Family systems and HIV/AIDS in South Africa.	This study examines the role of family in the care and support of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) as a way of reducing the burden of stigma in the family. The PEN-3 model provided the cultural framework for this study. Data were drawn from participants' responses in 27 focus groups interviews conducted in South Africa. Participants were asked to discuss experiences of people living with HIV and AIDS in the family. The results highlight the positive and supportive aspects of the family, acknowledge the existential and unique aspects, and discuss the negative experiences shared by participants. This study's findings stress the need to take into account families' experiences with HIV and AIDS in the development of interventions aimed at reducing the burden of the disease on family systems and improving care and support for PLWHA.
Hamulonema gen. nov. for Teladorsagia hamata and Ostertagia kenyensis in the ostertagiine fauna (Nematoda: Trichostrongyloidea) from African ungulates.	Hamulonema gen. nov. is proposed for Teladorsagia hamata and Ostertagia kenyensis in the ostertagiine nematode fauna found in artiodactyl hosts from Africa. Monomorphic species representing this genus are characterized by a bilaterally symmetrical and parallel synlophe in males and females, a 2-2-1 bursal formula, an accessory bursal membrane that is strongly cuticularized and reduced, a strongly reduced dorsal lobe and ray, and robust spicules with a simple, weakly pointed, ventral process, and curved, hooklike dorsal process. Species referred to Hamulonema nov. gen. are immediately distinguished from those of Camelostrongylus, Longistrongylus, Marshallagia, Orloffia, Ostertagia, and Pseudomarshallagia in which the bursal formula is 2-1-2 in males. Hamulonema nov. gen. is distinguished from those genera having a 2-2-1 bursa, including Africanastrongylus, Cervicaprastrongylus, Hyostrongylus, Mazamastrongylus, Sarwaria, Spiculopteragia, and Teladorsagia by the structure of the synlophe, bursa, genital cone, "0" and "7" papillae, dorsal lobe, and spicules in specific instances. In the global fauna, 4 of 14 ostertagiine genera are endemic to Africa. African genera may represent morphologically divergent and discrete or historically isolated lineages reflecting a pattern of geographic and host colonization as a driver for diversification since the Miocene.
Effectiveness of highly active antiretroviral therapy administered by general practitioners in rural South Africa.	The purpose of this study was to assess the one-year efficacy of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) administered by general practitioners in a primary care community clinic in rural South Africa. We performed an observational cohort study of 675 treatment-naive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients (including 66 children) who began HAART at least 12 months prior to the data analyses. Throughout treatment, the CD4+ T-cell count (percentage of CD4+ T-cells in children) and plasma HIV-RNA level were determined and the patient's weight was recorded. The primary outcome was mortality. Secondary outcomes were viral suppression, immunological response, and weight gain. One year after the start of HAART, 100 of the 675 (15%) patients were lost to follow-up and 119 patients (18%), including six children, died. Mortality was highest during the first few months of treatment. Based on an on-treatment analysis at one year after the start of therapy, 83% of adults and 71% of children had a viral load <400 copies/ml; the viral load was <50 copies/ml in 70% of adults and 61% of children. At one year, the mean CD4+ T-cell count in adults had increased by 236/mm(3), and the mean body mass index (BMI) had increased by 3.5 kg/m(2). In children, the mean CD4% had increased by 17.6. A low Karnofsky score and a low baseline CD4+ T-cell count were independently associated with death. In addition to these factors, a low baseline BMI and gender were predictive of a poor immunological outcome. Our study shows that adequately monitored HIV/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) care administered by general practitioners and their staff is feasible and leads to good results in a rural, primary care center in sub-Saharan Africa. In order to achieve even better results, early mortality should be reduced and efforts should be made to start HAART earlier.
DNA damage and repair detected by the comet assay in lymphocytes of african petrol attendants: a pilot study.	Petrol attendants are exposed to petrol volatile organic compounds (VOCs) which may have genotoxic and carcinogenic effects. The single-cell gel electrophoresis assay (comet assay) is a method highly sensitive to DNA damage induced by environmental and occupational exposure to carcinogenic and mutagenic agents. The aim of this study was to evaluate the level of exposure of petrol attendants to petrol VOCs and also to determine their effect on DNA damage and repair in lymphocytes of African petrol attendants. The exposed group consisted of 20 subjects, randomly selected from three petrol stations. A control group of 20 unexposed subjects was also chosen and matched for age and smoking habits with the exposed group. Sorbent tubes were used to assess personal exposure of petrol attendants. The comet assay was used to investigate the basal DNA damage and repair capacity in isolated lymphocytes of petrol attendants and unexposed subjects. Blood samples were taken from the petrol attendants at the end of their 8-h working shift and also from the unexposed subjects. The petrol attendants were found to be exposed to levels of petrol VOCs lower than the South African occupational exposure limit for constituent chemicals. A significant relationship was found between the volume of petrol sold during the shift and the average concentrations of benzene, toluene and the total VOCs measured. However, relative humidity had a negative correlation with the average concentrations of benzene, toluene, xylene and the total VOCs. Significantly higher basal DNA damage was observed with the exposed group compared to the unexposed group. The period of exposure influenced the level of DNA damage and the calculated repair capacity. Smoking and age had a significant influence on the level of DNA damage. DNA repair capacity was delayed in smokers of both exposed and unexposed group.
Pyrazinamide resistance among South African multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates.	Pyrazinamide is important in tuberculosis treatment, as it is bactericidal to semidormant mycobacteria not killed by other antituberculosis drugs. Pyrazinamide is also one of the cornerstone drugs retained in the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). However, due to technical difficulties, routine drug susceptibility testing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis for pyrazinamide is, in many laboratories, not performed. The objective of our study was to generate information on pyrazinamide susceptibility among South African MDR and susceptible M. tuberculosis isolates from pulmonary tuberculosis patients. Seventy-one MDR and 59 fully susceptible M. tuberculosis isolates collected during the national surveillance study (2001 to 2002, by the Medical Research Council, South Africa) were examined for pyrazinamide susceptibility by the radiometric Bactec 460 TB system, pyrazinamidase activity (by Wayne's assay), and sequencing of the pncA gene. The frequency of pyrazinamide resistance (by the Bactec system) among the MDR M. tuberculosis isolates was 37 of 71 (52.1%) and 6 of 59 (10.2%) among fully sensitive isolates. A total of 25 unique mutations in the pncA gene were detected. The majority of these were point mutations that resulted in amino acid substitutions. Twenty-eight isolates had identical mutations in the pncA gene, but could be differentiated from each other by a combination of the spoligotype patterns and 12 mycobacterial interspersed repetitive-unit loci. A high proportion of South African MDR M. tuberculosis isolates were resistant to pyrazinamide, suggesting an evaluation of its role in patients treated previously for tuberculosis as well as its role in the treatment of MDR-TB.
DSM-IV personality disorders and their axis I correlates in the South African population.	The prevalence of personality disorders (PD) in the South African population is largely unknown. Thus, we undertook to estimate prevalence, demographic correlates, co-morbidity and treatment rates of DSM-IV PD among South Africans.
Can social capital be intentionally generated? a randomized trial from rural South Africa.	While much descriptive research has documented positive associations between social capital and a range of economic, social and health outcomes, there have been few intervention studies to assess whether social capital can be intentionally generated. We conducted an intervention in rural South Africa that combined group-based microfinance with participatory gender and HIV training in an attempt to catalyze changes in solidarity, reciprocity and social group membership as a means to reduce women's vulnerability to intimate partner violence and HIV. A cluster randomized trial was used to assess intervention effects among eight study villages. In this paper, we examined effects on structural and cognitive social capital among 845 participants and age and wealth matched women from households in comparison villages. This was supported by a diverse portfolio of qualitative research. After two years, adjusted effect estimates indicated higher levels of structural and cognitive social capital in the intervention group than the comparison group, although confidence intervals were wide. Qualitative research illustrated the ways in which economic and social gains enhanced participation in social groups, and the positive and negative dynamics that emerged within the program. There were numerous instances where individuals and village loan centres worked to address community concerns, both working through existing social networks, and through the establishment of new partnerships with local leadership structures, police, the health sector and NGOs. This is among the first experimental trials suggesting that social capital can be exogenously strengthened. The implications for community interventions in public health are further explored.
Centile charts of cervical length between 18 and 32 weeks of gestation.	To establish a centile chart of cervical length between 18 and 32 weeks of gestation in a low-risk population of women.
Community perspectives on the ethical issues surrounding adolescent HIV vaccine trials in South Africa.	Adolescents globally are at high risk for HIV acquisition and are the targets of HIV prevention interventions such as HIV vaccines. In order to understand stakeholders' attitudes towards the ethical issues of adolescent involvement in HIV vaccine trials, we conducted focus group discussions with key members of a semi-urban, informal Cape Town community with high HIV prevalence in which HIV vaccine trials are taking place. Themes were identified from focus group transcripts by four researchers, and included necessity of guardian consent, age of independent consent, and confidentiality of in-trial medical results. In general, ethical adolescent HIV vaccine trials will be feasible in this community.
Tradition in transition--intergenerational relations with focus on the aged and their family members in a South African context.	This study describes the intergenerational relations influence on the care of the aged in a transitional period expressed by a group of aged South Africans and their family members. Focused ethnographic research was carried out from 2001 to 2006 in a semi-rural area in central South Africa. Twenty-nine participants representing 16 families took part in multiple group interviews. The data was supplemented through individual interviews with 10 of the participants as well as home visits, participation in community activities, notes and video recording. The transcribed interview texts were analysed using qualitative content analysis. The study shows aspects of tradition in transition as reciprocal care between generations, the significance of traditional values and the impact of modernization on care. The findings reveal the on going transition in Africa influencing the role of the aged as well as the reciprocal care within the extended family. The study also discloses that in reciprocal relationships, family members do not necessarily have a biological bond and that revaluing of traditions can be seen as a response to social and economic change and as a tool to maintain influence. This ethnographic study contributes knowledge in the field of gerontological care, by illuminating the impact of transition on the role of aged as well as the caring of the aged in the extended family an important issue for health professionals caring for a growing number of older persons in Southern Africa and in countries with a large representation of minority groups from developing countries.
Sensation seeking and alcohol use predict HIV transmission risks: prospective study of sexually transmitted infection clinic patients, Cape Town, South Africa.	Alcohol is related to HIV risk behaviors in southern Africa and these behaviors are correlated with sensation seeking personality and alcohol outcome expectancies. Here we report for the first time the associations among sensation seeking, substance use, and sexual risks in a prospective study in Africa. Sexually transmitted infection clinic patients in Cape Town South Africa (157 men and 64 women) completed (a) baseline measures of sensation seeking, sexual enhancement alcohol outcome expectancies, alcohol use in sexual contexts, and unprotected sexual behaviors and (b) 6-month follow-up measures of alcohol use in sexual contexts and unprotected sexual acts. Results confirmed that sensation seeking predicts HIV risk behavior and sensation seeking is related to alcohol outcome expectancies which in turn predict alcohol use in sexual contexts. HIV prevention counseling that addresses drinking in relation to sex is urgently needed in southern Africa.
Why do some hospitals achieve better care of severely malnourished children than others? Five-year follow-up of rural hospitals in Eastern Cape, South Africa.	Staff at 11 rural hospitals in an under-resourced region of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, participated in an intervention to improve the quality of care of severely malnourished children through training and support aimed at implementing the WHO case-management guidelines. Despite similar intervention inputs, some hospitals reduced their case-fatality rates by at least half, whereas others did not. The aim of this study was to investigate reasons for this disparity. Two successful and two poorly performing hospitals were purposively selected based on their case-fatality rates, which were <10% in the successful hospitals and >30% in those performing poorly. Comparative data were collected during June to October 2004 through structured observations of ward procedures, compilation of hospital data on case-loads and resources, and staff interviews and discussions related to attitudes, teamwork, training, supervision, managerial support and leadership. The four study hospitals had broadly similar resources, infrastructure and child:nurse ratios, and all had made changes to their clinical and dietary management following training. Case-management was broadly in line with WHO guidelines but the study revealed clear differences in institutional culture which influenced quality of care. Staff in the successful hospitals were more attentive and assiduous than staff in the poorly performing hospitals, especially in relation to rehydration procedures, feeding and the recording of vital signs. There was a strong emphasis on in-service training and induction of incoming staff in the successful hospitals and better supervision of junior staff and carers. Nurses had more positive attitudes towards malnourished children and their carers, and were less judgmental. Underlying factors were differences in leadership, teamwork, and managerial supervision and support. We conclude that unless there are supportive structures at managerial level, the potential benefits of efficacious interventions and related training programmes to improve health worker performance can be thwarted.
WGA allows the molecular characterization of a novel large CFTR rearrangement in a black South African cystic fibrosis patient.	By performing extensive scanning of whole coding and flanking sequences of the cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene, we had previously identified the CF-causing mutations in black South African patients of different ethnic groups suspected with the disease. Of ten samples analyzed, there were six remaining that had either one (n = 2) or two (n = 4) unidentified CFTR alleles that have now been tested for large rearrangements using a semiquantitative fluorescent PCR assay. A novel deletion encompassing CFTR exon 2 was detected in one patient who was heterozygous for the mutation 3120+1G>A. The Caucasian deletion involving the same exon [c.54-5811_c.164+2186del8108ins182] was ruled out. The DNA had been stored for more than 12 years and only minute quantities remained. We thus used a whole-genome amplification method based on multiple displacement amplification to generate sufficient amounts of DNA to characterize the intronic breakpoints and identify the deletion at the genomic level. Mapping and sequencing the breakpoint junctions revealed a novel large deletion [c.54-1161_c.164+1603del2875]. We have designed a simple test to specifically detect the presence or absence of this large rearrangement. This study reports the first large CFTR rearrangement in a black South African CF patient, further defining the molecular spectrum of CF that will be useful for improving genetic testing and counseling in this region.
Taxonomy and phylogeny of new wood- and soil-inhabiting Sporothrix species in the Ophiostoma stenoceras-Sporothrix schenckii complex.	Sporothrix, one of the anamorph genera of Ophiostoma, includes the important human pathogen S. schenckii and various fungi associated with insects and sap stain of wood. A survey of fungi from wood utility poles in South Africa yielded two distinct groups of Sporothrix isolates from different geographical areas. DNA sequence and morphological data derived in this study showed that isolates in these groups represent two novel species in the S. schenckii-O. stenoceras species complex. A new species isolated from pine poles and rosebush wood and phylogenetically closely related to S. pallida is described here as Sporothrix stylites. Phylogenetic analyses also confirmed the synonymy of S. albicans and S. nivea with S. pallida. Sporothrix stylites and S. pallida also are related closely to the isolates from soil, previously treated as "environmental" isolates of S. schenckii. Soil isolates are clearly distinct from human isolates of S. schenckii. We describe the former here as Sporothrix humicola. The isolates from eucalypt poles group peripheral to most other species in the S. schenckii-O. stenoceras complex and are newly described as Sporothrix lignivora. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences of isolates from soil and wood together with those of clinical isolates showed that the human-pathogenic strains form an aggregate of several cryptic species.
Fissure sealants on permanent first molars--consequences of a one-year delay.	The objective of this study was to compare the dental caries status of the occlusal surfaces of permanent first molars of Grade 2 (7-8 years of age) children who kept, and those who missed their Grade 1 (6-7 years of age) dental public health clinic appointment.
Environmental genomics reveals a single-species ecosystem deep within Earth.	DNA from low-biodiversity fracture water collected at 2.8-kilometer depth in a South African gold mine was sequenced and assembled into a single, complete genome. This bacterium, Candidatus Desulforudis audaxviator, composes >99.9% of the microorganisms inhabiting the fluid phase of this particular fracture. Its genome indicates a motile, sporulating, sulfate-reducing, chemoautotrophic thermophile that can fix its own nitrogen and carbon by using machinery shared with archaea. Candidatus Desulforudis audaxviator is capable of an independent life-style well suited to long-term isolation from the photosphere deep within Earth's crust and offers an example of a natural ecosystem that appears to have its biological component entirely encoded within a single genome.
Short-term acceptability of a single-size diaphragm among couples in South Africa and Thailand.	The SILCS diaphragm is a new, reusable, single-size cervical barrier device that is designed to offer the same barrier protection as a standard diaphragm with improved user acceptability.
Attitudes of South African dental therapy students toward compulsory community service.	Compulsory community service (CCS) was introduced into the health service by the South African government to address the shortage and maldistribution of health professionals within the public sector. The aim of this study was to determine the attitudes of dental therapy students regarding CCS. A self-administered questionnaire was delivered to the two dental schools that train dental therapists in South Africa. There was a 64 percent response rate; 56 percent of the respondents were female. The average age was 20.3 years. There was no difference in the variables between the two dental schools, so the results were combined. The majority (81 percent) supported the introduction of CCS and preferred to carry it out in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Most students opted to perform oral health promotional (64 percent) and clinical (15 percent) activities. By aligning these requirements with the current dental needs and priority strategies of the South African Department of Health, this support would add much value to the delivery of oral health services.
Improvements in lung function of a pediatric cystic fibrosis population in a developing country.	To document the change in pulmonary function of a pediatric cystic fibrosis population managed at the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa, between January 1999 and December 2006.
Jim Peters' collapse in the 1954 Vancouver Empire Games marathon.	On 7 August 1954, the world 42 km marathon record holder, Jim Peters, collapsed repeatedly during the final 385 metres of the British Empire and Commonwealth Games marathon held in Vancouver, Canada. It has been assumed that Peters collapsed from heatstroke because he ran too fast and did not drink during the race, which was held in windless, cloudless conditions with a dry-bulb temperature of 28 degrees C. Hospital records made available to us indicate that Peters might not have suffered from exertional heatstroke, which classically produces a rectal temperature > 42 degrees C, cerebral effects and, usually, a fatal outcome without vigorous active cooling. Although Peters was unconscious on admission to hospital approximately 60 minutes after he was removed from the race, his rectal temperature was 39.4 degrees C and he recovered fully, even though he was managed conservatively and not actively cooled. We propose that Peters' collapse was more likely due to a combination of hyperthermia-induced fatigue which caused him to stop running; exercise-associated postural hypotension as a result of a low peripheral vascular resistance immediately he stopped running; and combined cerebral effects of hyperthermia, hypertonic hypernatraemia associated with dehydration, and perhaps undiagnosed hypoglycaemia. But none of these conditions should cause prolonged unconsciousness, raising the possibility that Peters might have suffered from a transient encephalopathy, the exact nature of which is not understood.
Hypertension and diabetes: poor care for patients at community health centres.	To identify health care provider-related determinants of diabetes and hypertension management in patients attending public sector community health centres (CHCs).
Food variety and dietary diversity as indicators of the dietary adequacy and health status of an elderly population in Sharpeville, South Africa.	This cross-sectional, analytical study was a comprehensive health assessment focusing on dietary quality of 170 randomly selected elderly respondents in Sharpeville, South Africa. The methods included a sociodemographic, health food frequency questionnaire, 24h-recall questionnaires, and anthropometric and biochemical measurements. The low mean +/- standard deviation (SD) dietary diversity score (3.41 +/- 1.34) and food variety score (4.77 +/- 2.2) compared with poverty parameters confirmed household food insecurity in this community. Although three (n = 99, 58.6%) or two (n = 49, 28.9%) daily meals were mostly consumed, these were mainly carbohydrate-based and nutrient-deficient. The cereal group (2.01 +/- 0.81) had the highest mean food variety score +/- SD, followed by dairy (0.62 +/- 0.53) and flesh foods (0.40 +/- 0.53). When a mean adequacy ratio of 70% was used as a cut-off point for nutrient adequacy, it was found that the food variety score must be eight or higher and the dietary variety score must be at least six. These indicators thus have a high ability to identify those respondents with an inadequate diet but lower ability to identify those respondents with a nutritionally adequate diet. The data further showed a trend that with a higher food variety and dietary diversity, a better mean adequacy ratio is reached for this low-income group of elderly subjects. In conclusion, the results showed that food variety and dietary diversity scores give a fairly good assessment of the adequacy of the diet, and scoring dietary diversity is a significant, yet simple tool to identify elderly persons at risk of food and nutrition insecurity.
Elder abuse and neglect in South Africa: a case of marginalization, disrespect, exploitation and violence.	The problem of elder abuse and neglect in South Africa is widespread, but the definition of abuse remains problematic. An expanded typology is needed to classify certain types of abuse reported commonly, such as marginalization, disrespect, exploitation and violence. The history of elder abuse and responses is traced, relevant legislation and selected intervention programs are reviewed, and research and the status of elder abuse are evaluated. Interventions to address sociostructural factors that impact elders' settings, increase their vulnerability, and diminish their ability to realize human rights can contribute to an improvement in their condition and a reduction in abuse and rights violations in the long-term.
Nutritional quality of some wild leafy vegetables in South Africa.	Wild vegetables play an important role in the diet of inhabitants of different parts of the world. Among the wild vegetables of South Africa are Chenopodium album, Sonchus asper, Solanumnigrum and Urtica urens. The leaves of these plants were analysed for their nutritive value, anti-nutritive components and polyphenolic contents. The protein contents of their leaves ranged between 13.25% and 26.44%, while the fibre and mineral (ash) contents were 16.08-23.08% and 13.0-27.75%, respectively. U. urens contained the highest concentrations of calcium, potassium, phosphorus and zinc. A high level of iron was observed in S. asper. These values were found to be comparable with or higher than those of commonly used vegetables such as spinach, lettuce and cabbage. The total phenolic contents ranged between 4.58 and 10.53 mg/g. In terms of anti-nutritional principles, all the vegetables had comparatively lower concentrations of phytate, alkaloids and saponins. Considering the amount of available mineral elements in the vegetables, these plants could be valuable and important contributors to the diets of the people in South Africa.
Health systems and the implementation of disease programmes: case studies from South Africa.	This paper analyses the transfer and implementation of two internationally formulated infectious disease strategies in South Africa, namely, directly observed therapy (DOTS) for TB and syndromic management (SM) for sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Using the tools of policy analysis, this paper seeks to draw conclusions from contrasting experiences with the two strategies. DOTS and SM differ with respect to styles of engagement by World Health Organization (WHO), the international agency promoting the ideas, in the following ways: continuity and networking between policy makers, practitioners and researchers nationally; and approaches to sub-national implementation. We show how these factors may have been important to national uptake, and conclude on the need for a context sensitive approach to policy transfer and a balance between bottom-up and top-down implementation strategies. These insights may have relevance for the current global wave of treatment programmes for HIV and other infectious diseases.
Crossing invisible boundaries: the effectiveness of the Langebaan Lagoon marine protected area as a harvest refuge for a migratory fish species in South Africa.	The application of no-take areas in fisheries remains controversial. Critics argue that many targeted species are too mobile to benefit from area protection and that no-take areas are only appropriate for resident species. The degree of protection does not depend on the size of the no-take area but rather on the time fish reside inside its boundaries during key life-history events (i.e., spawning) and during periods of peak fishing activity. We evaluated the potential of a small no-take marine protected area (MPA) inside a coastal embayment as a harvest refuge for a mobile, possibly migratory, long-lived fish species. We used acoustic telemetry to track movements of 30 transmitter-tagged white stumpnose (Rhabdosargus globiceps) across and on both sides of the boundary of a small (34 km(2)) no-take area over a full year. Being landlocked on 3 sides, the location of the MPA inside the lagoon made it practical to detect all boundary crossings and to calculate the time individual fish used the MPA. We detected frequent movements across the boundary, with strong seasonal and individual variations. There were significant differences in MPA use patterns between fish from different release areas. The time spent in the MPA by individual fish during summer (mean 50%; max 98%) was out of proportion with the size of that area (4% of total habitat). Summer coincided with peak recreational fishing activity and with the spawning season of this species. The small MPA provided a refuge for a part of the spawning stock of white stumpnose. Our findings suggest that if strategically placed, a small no-take area can be effective in protecting mobile species and that models of spillover from no-take areas should account for seasonal and individual variation in area use and the spatiotemporal distribution of fish and fishers.
Structural analysis of fructans from Agave americana grown in South Africa for spirit production.	Fructans isolated from Agave americana grown in South Africa are currently used for spirit production. Structural studies on water-soluble fructans were performed to facilitate the development of other applications including its use as a prebiotic. Acid hydrolysis followed by HPAEC-PAD analysis confirmed that the fructan was composed of glucose and fructose, and size analysis by HPAEC-PAD and size exclusion chromatography indicated that the saccharides have a DP range from 6 to 50. An average DP of 14 was estimated by (1)H NMR analysis. Linkage analysis and ESI-MS studies suggest that A. americana has a neofructan structure consisting of a central sucrose to which (2 → 1)- and (2 → 6)-linked β-D-Fruf chains are attached. The (2 → 1)-linked units extend from C-1 of Fru and C-6 of glucose, whereas the (2 → 6)-linked β-D-Fruf units are attached to C-6 of the central Fru. This structure accounts for the presence of equimolar amounts of 1,6-linked Glu and 1,2,6-linked Fru found in linkage analysis and the multiplicity of the NMR signals observed. Detailed ESI-MS studies were performed on fructan fractions: native, periodate oxidized/reduced, and permethylated oligomers. These derivatizations introduced mass differences between Glc and Fru following oxidation and between 1,2-, 1,6-, 2,6-, and 1,2,6-linked units after methylation. Thus, ESI-MS showed the presence of a single Glc per fructan chain and that it is predominantly internal, rather than terminal as found in inulin. These structural features were confirmed by the use of 1D and 2D NMR experiments.
The COL5A1 genotype is associated with range of motion measurements.	There is an interest in identifying the intrinsic risk factors, including altered musculotendinous flexibility, that may be associated with musculotendinous injuries. We have recently shown that a sequence variant, namely the BstUI restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), within the COL5A1 gene is associated with chronic Achilles tendinopathy. Mutations within COL5A1 have been implicated in Ehlers Danlos syndrome, a condition that is characterized by joint hypermobility. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of sequence variants within COL5A1 and musculotendinous range of motion (ROM). The sit and reach (SR) and the passive straight leg raise (SLR) were measured on 119 Caucasian subjects with either a past, current or no history of Achilles tendon injuries. The subjects were genotyped for four sequence variants within the 3'-UTR of the COL5A1 gene. Gender (P=0.016), age (P=0.011) and the BstUI RFLP (P=0.010) jointly contributed significantly to the optimal SLR model which accounted for 19.3% of the variance. The factors contributing significantly to SR, which accounted for 28.8% of the variance, were weight (P=0.004), age (P<0.001) and the BstUI RFLP (P=0.001). These data suggest that the COL5A1 BstUI RFLP is independently associated with lower limb ROM within the cohort investigated in this study.
Supervised out-patient treatment of tuberculosis: evaluation of a South African rural programme.	We investigated a supervised out-patient treatment programme, operating in a predominantly rural area of KwaZulu, South Africa, for black tuberculosis patients. In particular, we evaluated treatment outcomes over a 3-year period (July 1987 to December 1989) and community involvement in the programme. In 1987 there were 118 patients (67 males, 31 females and 20 children) on the programme; 188 patients (106 males, 46 females and 36 children) in 1988; and 230 patients (112 males, 49 females and 69 children) in 1989. Analysis of treatment outcomes showed that 88% completed treatment, 8.5% defaulted and 3.4% died in 1987; 93% completed treatment, 4% defaulted and 3% died in 1988; 94% completed treatment, 3% defaulted and 3% died in 1989. The majority of patients were supervised by Voluntary Health Workers (68% in 1987, 82% in 1988 and 83% in 1989). Only four patients were readmitted to the hospital due to an unreliable health worker in this 3-year period. These findings suggest that the supervised out-patient treatment programme is meeting the ultimate aims of control; namely, holding and curing patients through community involvement and responsible participation.
Porcine respiratory disease in the western Cape Province.	The aetiology and pathogenesis of respiratory syndromes in pigs are reviewed with emphasis on the role of environmental factors and diagnosis. Therapeutic and control measures are suggested and the cost of various regimens is dealt with in detail.
Vitamin A supplementation reduces measles morbidity in young African children: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial.	The effects of vitamin A supplementation on measles morbidity are unclear. Sixty hospitalized children aged 4-24 mo with complicated measles received a World Health Organization--(WHO) recommended dose of vitamin A or placebo. The two groups were comparable in known covariants of measles severity: weight-for-age percentiles, overcrowding, rash, total lymphocytes, and serum concentrations of zinc, albumin, prealbumin, retinol-binding protein, and vitamins A and E. Ninety percent of the patients had hyporetinemia. Integrated morbidity scores, determined by severity of condition (eg, diarrhoea, herpes, and respiratory-tract infection) were assigned on day 8 and 6 wk and 6 mo; these were reduced by 82%, 61%, and 85%, respectively, in the supplemented group, which was mainly due to reduced respiratory-tract infection. There was one death in the placebo group. At 6 wk weight gain was significant in the supplemented group. Despite the selected sample, attention to multiple covariates enhances the validity of the data obtained and supports the current WHO recommendations for vitamin A supplementation during measles.
The molecular basis and diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia in South African Afrikaners.	Three different point mutations were recently identified in South African familial hypercholesterolaemics. These mutations result in the modification of recognition sites of specific restriction endonucleases. This study describes rapid methods for presymptomatic detection of these defects based on restriction enzyme analysis or allele-specific hybridization of enzymatically amplified genomic DNA. These methods were used to determine the frequencies of the three known low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene mutations in 138 chromosomes of Afrikaner FH patients. It has been shown that a common mutation at the 3' end of exon 4 (base 681) of the LDL receptor gene is present in about 70% of alleles, while the mutations in exons 9 (base 1285) and 4 (base 523) of the gene are present in about 20 and 10% respectively of the genes studied. These mutations were found in approximately 95% of Afrikaner familial hypercholesterolaemic patients studied, indicating at least three founder members for the disease in this population of South Africa.
Demographic and economic trends in medical schemes--a time series analysis]	A time series analysis was performed on medical scheme statistics with the aim of determining current and future demographic and economic trends. This would enable one to reach a better perspective on the current and future financial dilemma presently experienced by medical schemes. Data for the period 1978-1986 was analysed on a computer, using the Statgraphics program. The linear trend projection method, based on the regression analysis technique was used. Real values were determined by deflating nominal values against the consumer price index with 1980 as base year. There are at present 253 medical schemes in operation. Approximately 16 per cent of the economically active population are members of medical schemes. White members increased by only 3.8 per cent during the period 1978-1986, in comparison to the 87.1 per cent by black members. The beneficiaries represent 19 per cent of the total population; black beneficiaries increased by 422.1 per cent, while Whites increased only fractionally by 0.73 per cent. Membership fees increased by an average of R8.08/member/month or R1.72/member/month in real terms. Ninety five per cent of the income of medical schemes was derived from membership fees. The average real growth rate of income was 8.4 per cent, while net assets increased by only 3 per cent. An average deficit of R11.02 million/year is estimated for the recommended reserve funds in real terms. The greatest proportion of benefits paid was for professional services (47.4 per cent) followed by medicine (26.3 per cent) and hospital services (19.8 per cent). The real growth rate for benefits paid was 8.6 per cent per year.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Validation of the FAMACHA© eye colour chart using sensitivity/specificity analysis on two South African sheep farms.	A validation study of the FAMACHA(©) system for clinical evaluation of anaemia due to Haemonchus contortus was conducted on two commercial sheep farms in the summer rainfall region of South Africa. In this region, the Haemonchus season lasts from October to April. On Farm 1 the system was tested over a period of five successive years in consecutive sets of young stud Merino replacement rams and ewes examined at intervals of 3-5 weeks over each Haemonchus season, under routine farming conditions. When FAMACHA(©) scores of 3, 4, and 5 and haematocrit values of ≤ 22%, ≤ 19%, and ≤ 15% were separately considered to be anaemic, sensitivity on Farm 1 ranged from a maximum of 83% for a haematocrit cut-off of ≤ 15%, to 40% for a haematocrit cut-off of ≤ 22%. Sensitivity increased to 93% when FAMACHA(©) scores of 2, 3, 4, and 5 were considered anaemic at a cut-off value of ≤ 19%, but the positive predictive value decreased to 0.43, indicating that many non-anaemic animals would be treated. The analysis indicated a high level of classification bias on Farm 1, with the animals consistently being classified one FAMACHA(©) category lower (i.e. less anaemic) than reality. On Farm 2 the test was conducted over two successive years in yearling rams evaluated at weekly to fortnightly intervals during each worm season. Every ram judged to be in FAMACHA(©) category 4 or 5 was bled for haematocrit determination, and it was only dewormed with effective anthelmintics if the haematocrit was 15% or lower. When FAMACHA(©) scores of 3, 4, and 5 and haematocrit values of ≤ 22% and ≤ 19% were separately considered to be anaemic on Farm 2, sensitivity ranged from 64% for a haematocrit cut-off of ≤ 22%, to 80% for a cut-off of ≤ 19%. For identical haematocrit cut-off values and proportions of the sampled flock considered to be diseased as for Farm 1, sensitivity was always higher for Farm 2. On the other hand, further analysis of the data indicated that the magnitude of the error on Farm 1 was very consistent on average over the entire trial period. The results of this study indicate that (i) persons introduced to the system should not only be trained, but also be evaluated for accuracy of application; (ii) the sensitivity of the FAMACHA(©) diagnostic system should ideally be evaluated at shorter intervals to avoid production losses due to failure to detect anaemic animals which may be at risk of death; (iii) that calibration of the FAMACHA(©) scoring is essential per individual evaluator, and (iv) that animals should be examined at weekly intervals during periods of the highest worm challenge.
Grandmothers as gems of genetic wisdom: exploring South African traditional beliefs about the causes of childhood genetic disorders.	With its diverse cultural and linguistic profile, South Africa provides a unique context to explore contextual influences on the process of genetic counseling. Prior research suggests intergenerational differences regarding models of causation which influence treatment-seeking paths. This pilot study therefore aimed to explore South African traditional beliefs regarding common childhood genetic disorders. Three focus groups were conducted with fifteen grandmothers from different cultural backgrounds in an urban community. Questions pertained to the role of the grandmother, traditional beliefs regarding causes of genetic disorders, explanations of heredity, and prevention and management of genetic disorders. Results indicate a variety of cultural explanations for causes of childhood genetic disorders. These causes can be classified into categories related to lifestyle, behavior, social issues, culture, religion, genetic, and familial causes. Prevention and treatment issues are also highlighted. These findings have implications for genetic counseling practice, which needs to include a greater focus on cultural issues.
Survey of 3-alkyl-2-methoxypyrazine content of South African Sauvignon blanc wines using a novel LC-APCI-MS/MS method.	An LC-MS/MS method for the trace-level determination of 3-alkyl-2-methoxypyrazines in Sauvignon blanc wines is described. 3-Isobutyl-2-methoxypyrazine (IBMP), 3-isopropyl-2-methoxypyrazine (IPMP) and 3-sec-butyl-2-methoxypyrazine (SBMP) were analyzed by reversed phase liquid chromatography coupled to atmospheric pressure chemical ionization, as electrospray ionization was found to suffer from matrix quenching effects. A sample preparation method involving distillation of wine followed by solvent extraction and sufficient preconcentration was developed. Limits of detection and quantification for all three analytes were 0.03 ng/L and 0.10 ng/L, respectively, making the method more sensitive than gas chromatographic methods. IBMP was found to be the most abundant congener in South African Sauvignon blanc wines, with concentrations varying between 0.40 and 44 ng/L in 575 samples. IPMP and SBMP levels varied from <0.03 to 3.9 and <0.03 to 3.2 ng/L, respectively. Statistical investigation indicated no clear correlation between methoxypyrazine content and either geographical origin or vintage. The method was also successfully applied for the quantitation of IBMP in five additional South African wine varieties, including three red wine cultivars. The developed method represents a powerful new tool for the in-depth investigation of these important wine aroma constituents.
Why wait? Trait and habitat correlates of variation in germination speed among Kalahari annuals.	The longer soil has to stay moist to allow germination the more likely that seedlings experience favourable moisture conditions. Since theory predicts that fitness variance-reducing traits will be negatively correlated, we tested the hypothesis that time to germination is negatively correlated with the ability of radicle growth to keep up with the drying front. We measured time to germination and root elongation rate (RER) in 14 Kalahari annuals. We controlled for habitat (canopy association and sand content), germinability, median base water potential for germination (psi(50)), seed mass and seed shape as a persistence surrogate. For species and phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs), we did not find a relationship between time to germination and RER. However, we found a negative relationship of time to germination with RER for PICs when controlling for sand content and psi(50). Seed shape increased with time to germination which can be explained by reduced opportunities for germination in slow-germinating species that select for persistence. We found a positive relationship between time to germination and psi(50), suggesting a continuum of risky to cautious germination. psi(50) was not correlated with RER suggesting that variation in psi(50) reflects different drought-adapted traits. Probably the relationship of time to germination with RER is not mediated by seed mass, which was not correlated with time to germination as found by others, though RER was positively correlated with seed mass. Instead of the seed size-seed number trade-off, a trade-off with resource capture may explain variation in RER: more root hairs or rootlets may increase resource capturing surface while reducing RER. For habitat, we found a (positive) relationship with time to germination only for canopy association. This may be explained by maximization of resource capture at the expense of RER being favoured by the higher nutrient and water availability under canopies. Future studies should clarify which trade-offs govern variation in time to germination, focussing on a possible resource capture-RER trade-off.
Burn prevention programs for children in developing countries require urgent attention: a targeted literature review.	Paediatric burns are a significant international public health problem. Developing and developed countries report similar challenges regarding paediatric burn prevention programs. Paediatric burns requiring healthcare often incur significant health and opportunity costs, death or long-term disability. This paper reviews international burn prevention strategies, and considers implementation of effective prevention strategies in South Africa. REVIEW QUESTION: Are there differences between developed and developing countries regarding causes and prevalence of paediatric burns, prevention strategies, and evidence of effectiveness? REVIEW FRAMEWORK: Implementing effective burn prevention strategies in South Africa.
Responses of phytoplankton upon exposure to a mixture of acid mine drainage and high levels of nutrient pollution in Lake Loskop, South Africa.	The relationships between water quality and the phytoplankton community within Lake Loskop were studied during the late summer and autumn of 2008 to evaluate the impacts of acid mine drainage and high nutrient concentrations. The higher concentrations of metal ions and sulphate had adverse effects on certain phytoplankton species in the inflowing riverine zone of Lake Loskop, in comparison to the reference site in the lacustrine zone of the lake, which was dominated by the larger and slower growing late summer species of Coelastrum reticulum Nägeli, Straurastrum anatinum Meyen ex Ralfs and Ceratium hirundinella Müller. The high nutrient concentrations (nitrogen: 17 mg l(-1) and orthophosphate: 0.7 mg l(-1)) during the mid-summer peak of the rainy season were associated with the development of a bloom of the cyanobacterium Microcystis. Water quality data associated with the development of the Microcystis bloom suggest that the aquatic system of Lake Loskop has now entered an alternate, hypertrophic regime. This change overshadowed the adverse effects of high concentrations of heavy metal ions and low pH. Throughout this study, the reference site in the lacustrine zone of Lake Loskop had lower concentrations of metal ions and sulphate, and higher pH values. The response of phytoplankton bioassays on integrated water samples from the different sampling sites did provide potential answers to the reasons for the absence of the algal group Chlorophyceae in the phytoplankton community structure in the riverine zone of the lake.
Growing or connecting? An urban food garden in Johannesburg.	Issues of food security are of particular importance in urban areas in Africa and government policy advises on the household growing of vegetables for nutrition. The Siyakhana project is a food garden in the centre of Johannesburg which was established by a University Health Promotion Unit with the support of other stakeholders including the City authorities and a permaculture organization. It was set up with the objective of providing food for children attending early-childhood development centres and for the beneficiaries of non-governmental organizations providing home-based care for people living with HIV/AIDS. One year after start-up, an evaluation was conducted, based on the measures of outcome identified as significant by those involved in the project. Its impact on health is not yet measurable, but as the amounts of fruits and vegetables available and consumed in South Africa are low compared with WHO recommendations, it is a useful addition to food security in an urban area. Mobilizing around the food garden supported bonding among homogenous but separate third-sector organizations, through increased opportunities for networking which built trust, reciprocity and resource exchange. The project also provides a model for a community-university partnership providing opportunities for service learning by students and for social investment by the university.
Novel integron gene cassette arrays identified in a global collection of multi-drug resistant non-typhoidal Salmonella enterica.	Investigation of integron carriage in a global collection of multi-drug resistant Salmonella enterica identified 3 unique class 1 integron gene cassette arrays not previously reported in this species. The present study used PCR and DNA sequence analysis to characterize the structure of these gene cassette arrays. A approximately 4.0 kb integron containing the gene cassette array arr2/cmlA5/bla (OXA10) /aadA1 was found in isolates belonging to serovars Isangi and Typhimurium from South Africa. A approximately 6.0 kb integron containing the gene cassettes aac(6')IIc/ereA2/IS1247/aac/arr/ereA2 was found in isolates belonging to serovar Heidelberg from the Philippines. In this gene cassette array, the insertion sequence, IS1247, and two putative resistance genes, disrupt the erythromycin resistance gene cassette. Finally, a approximately 6.0 kb integron containing the gene cassette qacH/dfrA32/ereA1/aadA2/cmlA/aadA1 was found in serovar Stanley isolates from Taiwan. This integron, which has not been previously reported in any bacterial species, contains a new dihydrofolate reductase gene cassette sequence designated dfrA32, with only 90% sequence similarity to previously reported dfrA cassettes. The S. enterica integrons described in the present study represent novel collections of resistance genes which confer multi-drug resistance and have the potential to be widely disseminated among S. enterica as well as other bacterial species.
Loss of maternal measles antibody in black South African infants in the first year of life--implications for age of vaccination.	In order to investigate the feasibility of measles vaccination before the age of 9 months the duration of passive immunity against measles was estimated by conducting a longitudinal study of measles antibody levels in 20 black neonates delivered at term. Measles serum antibody (IgG) was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the mother at childbirth and on consecutive samples taken from the infants from birth until 9 months of age. Protective measles antibody level was defined as greater than 200 mIU. Unprotective levels were found in 88% (95% confidence interval (CI) 81-99%) of 6-month-old infants, while at 9 months all were susceptible. The mean antibody level was 192 mIU (CI 104-348%) at 4 months; 34 mIU (CI 15-73%) at 6 months and 13 mIU (CI 6-24%) at 9 months of age. Our data support the recent World Health Organisation recommendation to immunise children in developing countries at 6 months with the 'high titre' Edmonston-Zagreb measles vaccine, since most infants in our study had lost passive immunity against measles by this age.
Perceptions and knowledge about the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome among students in university residences.	Using an anonymous questionnaire to obtain baseline data on sexual behaviour and knowledge of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) among students in university residences, the following information was obtained: Knowledge of AIDS was found to be high, although misconceptions regarding transmission of the virus were prevalent. Mosquito bites (15%) and the donating of blood (31%) were incorrectly identified as methods of transmission of the virus. Deep kissing was recognised by only 27% of the students as a possible method of transmission while 22% and 13% of the students, respectively, failed to identify the sharing of razor blades and blood transfusions as possible means of contracting HIV infection. The students' knowledge had not greatly affected sexual behaviour. Two-thirds of the respondents had previously had sexual contact; 38% were sexually active at the time of the study, and of these 74% had engaged in unprotected intercourse with casual partners in the previous 6 months. There was a negative attitude towards condom use and over 80% of sexually active students did not perceive themselves to be at risk of contracting AIDS. Campus Health (82%), State health services (51%), and public advertisements (60%) were preferred sources of AIDS information. Newspapers/magazines (80%) and leaflets (69%) were identified as the preferred media. In reality, significantly fewer students obtained their information from Campus Health (15%; P less than 0.05), State health services (19%, P less than 0.05) and leaflets (44%; P less than 0.05). It can be concluded that education programmes should be developed by credible organisations to ensure that an awareness of AIDS results in appropriate sexual behaviour.
The Johannesburg cardiac rehabilitation programme.	Cardiac rehabilitation has become a generally accepted mode of treatment for patients suffering from coronary artery disease. The Johannesburg cardiac rehabilitation programme was started in 1982 and has rapidly grown to become one of the largest programmes in southern Africa. This paper describes the 387 patients admitted to the unit between June 1986 and July 1988 and evaluates the effects of a combined exercise training and lifestyle modification programme. The mean age on admission was 55 years for males and 58 years for females. Most patients were from social classes I and II. Myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass graft and a combination of both were the most common reasons for admission (35.4%, 23% and 21.2% respectively). On admission 72.9% of patients were smokers, 26.3% had hypertension and 34.3% had hypercholesterolaemia. A 50% drop-out rate within 12 months of starting the programme was noted. An increase in peak oxygen uptake, weight and skinfold thickness reduction, and improvement in the lipogram were seen after 6 months in patients who complied well with the programme. Cardiac rehabilitation is a secondary preventive strategy that can complement traditional medical and surgical therapies.
Dimethylarginines: their vascular and metabolic roles in Africans and Caucasians.	Alarming increases in hypertension and type 2 diabetes among Africans accentuate the need to identify factors that could serve as targets for prevention or treatment. In Caucasian populations, asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), the predominant endogenous nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, is associated with cardiovascular disease and insulin resistance (IR). ADMA's counterpart, symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA), originally thought to be inert, was recently also linked with cardiovascular risk. Since little information regarding ADMA or SDMA is available for Africans, our aim was to explore the relationships of ADMA and SDMA with measures of arterial stiffness and IR in Africans and Caucasians from South Africa.
In vitro hepatic biotransformation of aspalathin and nothofagin, dihydrochalcones of rooibos (Aspalathus linearis), and assessment of metabolite antioxidant activity.	Aspalathin (2',3,4,4',6'-pentahydroxy-3'-C-beta-d-glucopyranosyldihydrochalcone) is the major flavonoid present in the South African herbal tea rooibos. In vitro metabolism of aspalathin and a structural analogue nothofagin, lacking the A ring catechol group, was investigated by monitoring the formation of glucuronyl and sulfate conjugates using Aroclor 1254 induced and uninduced rat liver microsomal and cytosolic subcellular fractions. Following glucuronidation of both aspalathin and nothofagin, HPLC-DAD, LC-MS, and LC-MS/MS analyses indicated the presence of two metabolites: one major and one minor. Only one aspalathin metabolite was obtained after sulfation, while no metabolites were observed for nothofagin. Two likely sites of conjugation for aspalathin are 4-OH or 3-OH on the A-ring. For nothofagin, the 4-OH (A-ring) and 6'-OH (B-ring) seem to be involved. The glucuronyl conjugates of aspalathin lack any radical scavenging properties in online postcolumn DPPH radical and ABTS radical cation assays. Deconjugation assays utilizing glucuronidase and sulfatase resulted in the disappearance of the metabolites, with the concomitant formation of the unconjugated form in the case of the glucuronidated product. The balance between conjugated and unconjugated forms of aspalathin could have important implications regarding its role in affecting oxidative status in intra- and extracellular environments in vivo.
Relative deprivation and mortality in South Africa.	This paper tests the relative income hypothesis by considering the relationship between mortality, income and relative deprivation in South Africa using individual-level data on income and five measures of relative deprivation each with a different reference group. We find that income tends to be protective of, and relative deprivation detrimental to health, but the latter often gives a better account of mortality than does income alone. For some population groups the fit is improved in specifications which include both income and relative deprivation. Overall, there seems to be solid evidence in support of the relative income hypothesis, particularly for the more economically disadvantaged population groups. Relative deprivation is especially significant when age is the reference group, suggesting that the comparison of socio-economic standing that has an impact on health tends to happen within cohorts. The results are robust to splitting the sample into urban/rural subsamples and to looking at the incidence of illness as the health outcome rather than mortality. While little is known about the mechanisms underlying the effect of relative deprivation on health and mortality, the consistent evidence in favor of age as a reference group, particularly in a context like South Africa's suggests that intra-cohort comparisons should be an avenue for more in depth investigation.
Professionalization of South African nursing: who benefits?.	In this article the authors present a critical and alternative view of the reasons for and nature of professionalism in nursing, with particular reference to the South African situation. They show that professionalizing strategies have not necessarily been in the interests of the majority of nurses or of health care. First, some background information is given on the process of professionalization: its emergence worldwide and in South Africa, partly as a response of a predominantly female group to the power, prestige, and privilege held in the health sector by a predominantly male medical profession. The process in South African nursing is outlined, with particular emphasis on how this has paralleled political developments in South Africa. The proletarianization of a large body of nurses is examined as a contradictory trend to professionalization. The second part of the article is an analysis of the consequences of the professionalization process, which has had deleterious effects on the provision of health care as well as on relationships amongst nurses, their colleagues, and their communities.
Body image and eating behaviour in interethnic adolescent girls.	Reports of major dissatisfaction among adolescent girls over body shape and their associated eating behaviour, prompted determining anthropometric and questionnaire studies on series of rural and urban black, Indian, and white girls aged 14-19 years. Variables were concern over weight, desired weight loss, also practices regarding binge eating, fasting, vomiting and laxative use. Black girls have low weight-for-age, yet experience more obesity than white girls; yet weight reduction, although desired, is seldom seriously attempted. Indian girls have low weight-for-age, principally for genetic, not social class, reasons; they also, even some underweight, desired weight reduction. White girls are also dissatisfied, although less acutely than girls in the US. The current attitudes of South African adolescent girls, apart from extremes, are unlikely to seriously prejudice their health.
One-day famciclovir vs. placebo in patient-initiated episodic treatment of recurrent genital herpes in immunocompetent Black patients.	There are no known racial differences in genital herpes disease pathogenesis or response to therapy. Despite high herpes simplex virus (HSV) seroprevalence in Black persons, clinical trials investigating the treatment of recurrent genital herpes (RGH) have typically enrolled a small proportion of Black patients.
Plasma polyunsaturated fatty acids and liver enzymes in HIV-infected subjects: the Prospective Urban and Rural Epidemiology (PURE) Study.	Omega-6 (n-6) polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) intake was previously reported to be adversely related to liver function in HIV-infected subjects, when compared with HIV-uninfected subjects, in a black population in South Africa. It was speculated that the use of heavily oxidized vegetable fats (abused fats) could have been responsible.
A unique isolate of beak and feather disease virus isolated from budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) in South Africa.	Beak and feather disease virus (BFDV), the causative agent of psittacine beak and feather disease (PBFD) infects psittaciformes worldwide. We provide an annotated sequence record of three full-length unique genomes of BFDV isolates from budgerigars (Melopsittacus undulatus) from a breeding farm in South Africa. The isolates share >99% nucleotide sequence identity with each other and approximately 96% nucleotide sequence identity to two recent isolates (Melopsittacus undulatus) from Thailand but only between 91.6 and 86.6% identity with all other full-length BFDV sequences. Maximum-likelihood analysis and recombination analysis suggest that the South African budgerigar BFDV isolates are unique to budgerigars, are non-recombinant in origin, and represent a new genotype of BFDV.
Organic-walled microfossils in 3.2-billion-year-old shallow-marine siliciclastic deposits.	Although the notion of an early origin and diversification of life on Earth during the Archaean eon has received increasing support in geochemical, sedimentological and palaeontological evidence, ambiguities and controversies persist regarding the biogenicity and syngeneity of the record older than Late Archaean. Non-biological processes are known to produce morphologies similar to some microfossils, and hydrothermal fluids have the potential to produce abiotic organic compounds with depleted carbon isotope values, making it difficult to establish unambiguous traces of life. Here we report the discovery of a population of large (up to about 300 mum in diameter) carbonaceous spheroidal microstructures in Mesoarchaean shales and siltstones of the Moodies Group, South Africa, the Earth's oldest siliciclastic alluvial to tidal-estuarine deposits. These microstructures are interpreted as organic-walled microfossils on the basis of petrographic and geochemical evidence for their endogenicity and syngeneity, their carbonaceous composition, cellular morphology and ultrastructure, occurrence in populations, taphonomic features of soft wall deformation, and the geological context plausible for life, as well as a lack of abiotic explanation falsifying a biological origin. These are the oldest and largest Archaean organic-walled spheroidal microfossils reported so far. Our observations suggest that relatively large microorganisms cohabited with earlier reported benthic microbial mats in the photic zone of marginal marine siliciclastic environments 3.2 billion years ago.
The skills gap in hospital management: a comparative analysis of hospital managers in the public and private sectors in South Africa.	A lack of management capacity has been identified as the key stumbling block to attaining the goals of health for all in South Africa. As part of the overall management development process, this research aims to identify the skills that are important for health services management and to evaluate managers' self-assessed proficiency in each of these skills. We also examined the impact of past training on perceived competency levels. A cross-sectional survey using a self-administered questionnaire was conducted among 404 hospital managers in the South African public and private sectors. Respondents were asked to rate the level of importance that each proposed competency had in their job and to indicate their proficiency in each skill. Both public and private sector managers rated competencies related to 'people management', 'self-management' and 'task-related skills' highest followed by 'strategic planning' and 'health delivery', respectively. The largest differences between mean importance rating and mean skill rating for public sector managers were for people management skills, task-related skills and self-management skills. The largest deficits for private sector managers were for people management skills, self-management skills and health delivery skills. Informal management development programmes were found to be more valuable in improving management skills. These findings reflect the reality of the local health service environment and the need of health managers. It will be useful in the conceptualization, design and delivery of health management programmes aimed at enhancing current and future management and leadership capacity in the health sector in South Africa.
Normative data for the Tygerberg Cognitive Battery and Mini-Mental Status Examination in a South African population.	Normative data for the Tygerberg Cognitive Battery (TCB) and Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) (in South Africa) have not been formally examined before. The TCB was developed for the bedside pen-and-paper screening of cognitive impairment in each of the 6 main cognitive domains, including attention and concentration, speech, memory, praxis, gnosis, and executive functioning. The test is also used to diagnose different neuropsychiatric conditions. The MMSE is an established screen of cognitive status, which is often used as a comparative standard for novel screening tests such as the TCB. The TCB was initially developed in English and Afrikaans, and a Xhosa version was also initiated with this study so that the 3 most common languages of the region could be accommodated.
Results of a safety and feasibility study of the diaphragm used with ACIDFORM Gel or K-Y Jelly.	New strategies are needed for preventing HIV infection in women. One potential approach is female-initiated use of an effective topical microbicidal gel in combination with a cervical barrier such as the diaphragm.
Using mobile phones for adolescent research in low and middle income countries: preliminary findings from the birth to twenty cohort, South Africa.	Mobile phones enable engagement with adolescents through a familiar medium. Survey data are presented from 2,023 South African adolescents who were asked about phone ownership, usage, and their willingness to divulge sensitive information in short message service surveys. Barriers to participation are addressed as are recommendations for follow-up research.
TB treatment initiation and adherence in a South African community influenced more by perceptions than by knowledge of tuberculosis.	Tuberculosis (TB) is a global health concern. Inadequate case finding and case holding has been cited as major barrier to the control of TB. The TB literature is written almost entirely from a biomedical perspective, while recent studies show that it is imperative to understand lay perception to determine why people seek treatment and may stop taking treatment. The Eastern Cape is known as a province with high TB incidence, prevalence and with one of the worst cure rates of South Africa. Its inhabitants can be considered lay experts when it comes to TB. Therefore, we investigated knowledge, perceptions of (access to) TB treatment and adherence to treatment among an Eastern Cape population.
Ultrasonographic appearance of canine parvoviral enteritis in puppies.	The ultrasonographic appearance of the gastrointestinal tract of puppies suffering from parvoviral enteritis was characterized. Forty puppies between 6 and 24 weeks of age with confirmed canine parvoviral enteritis were examined ultrasonographically within 24 h of admission. Sonographic findings included fluid-filled small intestines in 92.5% of subjects, and stomach and colon in 80% and 62.5% of subjects, respectively. Generalized atony was present in 30 subjects and weak peristaltic contractions indicative of functional ileus observed in the remaining 10 subjects. The duodenal and jejunal mucosal layer thicknesses were significantly reduced when compared with normal puppies with mean duodenal mucosal layer measuring 1.7 mm and jejunal mucosal layer 1.0 mm. Additionally, a mucosal layer with diffuse hyperechoic speckles was seen in the duodenum (15% of subjects) and the jejunum (50% of subjects). The luminal surface of the duodenal mucosa was irregular in 22.5% of subjects and the jejunal mucosa in 42.5% of subjects. In all of these subjects, changes were accompanied by generalized indistinct wall layering. Small intestinal corrugations were seen within the duodenum in 35% of subjects and within the jejunum in 7.5%. A mild amount of anechoic free peritoneal fluid was observed in 26 subjects and was considered within normal limits and a moderate amount of anechoic free peritoneal fluid was observed in six subjects. The jejunal lymph node size was within normal limits. None of the above changes are pathognomonic for canine parvoviral enteritis but finding them in combination is highly suggestive.
Perceptions about body image and sizes among Black African girls living in Cape Town.	To assess beliefs about body size (fatness and thinness) and body image in Black girls aged 10-18 years living in Cape Town.
Gastroenterology training in private hospitals: India vs South Africa.	In South Africa, nurses and doctors are emigrating in significant numbers. Job satisfaction, safety and ensuring career progression are important in retaining doctors to make a career in Republic of South Africa (RSA). Due to budgetary constraints many hospitals have not been upgraded. Coming home after overseas training seems difficult. In RSA it takes a minimum of 13 years for a young specialist to become registered and 15 years for subspecialists. Career progression, creating more specialist trainees in public and private hospitals and shortening the period of professional training are potential solutions to the problem. India, which has a population of more than 1 billion people, is struggling with similar problems. For the past 10-15 years, private hospitals have assisted in manpower development for medical specialist and subspecialist careers. Currently their private sector trains 60% of their recognised (sub)specialities fellows. A national task force for specialist training in RSA should be instituted. It should discuss, based on the current status and projected specialist and subspecialist personnel requirements, the future structure and logistics of training needs. This is required in all subspecialities including gastroenterology, as has been done in India. It is hoped that as a consequence well-trained doctors, similar to those in India, might move to provincial hospitals in rural areas, upgrading the medical services and keeping medical power in South Africa. South Africa should become a model for Sub-Saharan Africa, as India already is for South-East Asia.
Inappropriate sexual behaviours experienced by speech-language pathologists and audiologists in South Africa.	The experience of inappropriate sexual behaviours (ISB) by healthcare professionals has been identified internationally as a serious issue. This study investigated the extent of ISB directed towards speech-language pathologists and/or audiologists (SLP/As) in South Africa, as well as the sources and the effects of ISB, the responses of the SLP/As, and the perceptions of the SLP/As with regard to their ability to manage ISB experiences. Fifty-six qualified SLP/As and 62 student SLP/As completed a questionnaire based on similar studies conducted in Canada and New Zealand. Most of the respondents had experienced ISB, mostly of a mild to moderate nature, at some point in their careers, and some had experienced severe ISB in the workplace. ISB occurred in a variety of work contexts. The sources of ISB included clients and/or their family members, as well as colleagues and employers. A range of personal and work-related effects resulted and the respondents took the least assertive strategy in the management of their ISB experiences. The results reflected that SLP/As in South Africa are poorly informed with regard to their legal rights and responsibilities, as well as strategies to deal with unwanted sexually related experiences. ISB ought to be recognised as a serious issue in clinical practice in South Africa by SLP/As, professional bodies as well as training institutions. The results are in line with previous research on ISB experiences by SLP/As and other healthcare professionals.
Western and traditional medicine: cultural beliefs and practices of South African Muslims with regard to Down syndrome.	The aim of the study was to investigate the beliefs and practices of caregivers and traditional healers within the South African Muslim community regarding Down syndrome. An exploratory-descriptive research design was utilized which incorporated individual interviews with 10 caregivers of persons with Down syndrome as well as 10 traditional healers from the South African Muslim community. Common beliefs emanating from both groups relating to the cause of Down syndrome included the notion that this condition was genetic in origin and that such children were perceived to be gifts from God. Others attributed Down syndrome to a punishment from God or the result of curses from people. Treatment included the use of inscriptions from the Quraan, water that had been prayed over and herbal medicines. Some caregivers seemed reluctant to approach western health care professionals due to negative past experiences. The main reasons for consulting traditional healers were cultural beliefs and pressure from family members, their holistic approach and the personal nature of their interventions. Collaboration between allopathic medicine and traditional healing was advocated by almost all of the traditional healers. These findings underline the need for culturally sensitive rehabilitation practices in speech-language pathology and audiology; and collaboration between western health care practitioners and traditional healers.
Profiles of outpatient speech-language therapy and audiology clients at a tertiary hospital in the Western Cape.	This study described trends in the demographic, diagnostic, and attendance variables of first-time clients who attended the Speech-Language Therapy and Audiology outpatient department (OPD) at a tertiary hospital in the Western Cape over a five-year period (1999-2003). A retrospective, descriptive survey was conducted and data were collected from hospital records. The data were coded, analysed descriptively and represented in tables, figures and graphs. The diagnostic categories of hearing loss and voice disorder made up the highest percentage of referrals. The largest percentages of clients were referred from the Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) Department at the study hospital, followed by the education sector. Demographic trends indicated that the highest percentage of clients attending the OPD was in the age category of 7-12 years, that similar percentages of male and female clients attended the OPD, and that English was the language that a client was most likely to speak. Geographically, the highest percentage of clients attending the OPD was from the Klipfontein region. Attendance data revealed that approximately 70% of clients attended OPD appointments within a three-month time period and attended no more than two appointments. Percentage of appointments attended decreased with increasing numbers of scheduled appointments. Implications for research and service delivery are discussed.
Current management for word finding difficulties by speech-language therapists in South African remedial schools.	Word finding difficulties frequently found in learners with language learning difficulties (Casby, 1992) are an integral part of Speech-Language Therapists' management role when working with learning disabled children. This study investigated current management for word finding difficulties by 70 Speech-Language Therapists in South African remedial schools. A descriptive survey design using a quantitative and qualitative approach was used. A questionnaire and follow-up focus group discussion were used to collect data. Results highlighted the use of the Renfrew Word Finding Scale (Renfrew, 1972, 1995) as the most frequently used formal assessment tool. Language sample analysis and discourse analysis were the most frequently used informal assessment procedures. Formal intervention programmes were generally not used. Phonetic, phonemic or phonological cueing were the most frequently used therapeutic strategies. The authors note strengths and raise concerns about current management for word finding difficulties in South African remedial schools, particularly in terms of bilingualism. Opportunities are highlighted regarding the development of assessment and intervention measures relevant to the diverse learning disabled population in South Africa.
The intersecting risks of substance use and HIV risk among substance-using South African men and women.	The aim of this article is to review the recent literature examining the intersection between alcohol and other drug use and HIV risk behaviors for South African men and women, and the implications for the development of interventions and future research.
Blueprint for an automated specific decision support system for countering anthelmintic resistance in Haemonchus spp. at farm level.	This article is the first of a series aimed at developing specific decision support software for on-farm optimisation of sustainable integrated management of haemonchosis. It contains a concept framework for such a system for use by farmers and/or their advisors but, as reported in the series, only the first steps have been taken on the road to achieve this goal. Anthelmintic resistance has reached such levels of prevalence and intensity that recently it evoked the comment that for small ruminants the final phase of resistance was being entered, without effective chemotherapeutic agents on some farms with which to control worms at a level commensurate with profitable animal production. In addition, in the case of cattle, a recent survey in New Zealand showed 92% of worm populations to be resistant to at least one anthelmintic group. Ironically, new technology, such as the FAMACHA(©) system which was devised for sustainable management of haemonchosis, is at present being adopted relatively slowly by the majority of farmers and it is suggested that an important reason for this is the complexity of integration of new methods with epidemiological factors. The alternatives to the simple drenching programmes of the past are not only more difficult to manage, but are also more labour-intensive. The problem is further complicated by a progressive global shortage of persons with the necessary experience to train farmers in the new methods. The opinion is advanced that only computerised, automated decision support software can optimise the integration of the range of factors (such as rainfall, temperature, host age and reproductive status, pasture type, history of host and pasture infection, and anthelmintic formulation) for more sustainable worm management than is obtainable with present methods. Other than the conventional method (in which prospective analysis of laboratory and other data is mainly used to suggest when strategic prophylactic drenching of all animals for preventing excessive helminthosis should be conducted during the relevant worm season), the computer model being proposed is to be based on targeted selective treatment, supported by progressive periodic retrospective analysis of clinical data of a given worm season. It is emphasised that, in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past, such an automated support system should ideally be developed urgently in a attempt to engineer greater sustainability of any unrelated new anthelmintics which may reach the market.
Community oriented primary care: origins, evolution, applications.	Community oriented primary care is a commonly used term applied to a variety of situations and programs. Its use frequently extends beyond an understanding of its specific elements or an appreciation of its history and development. This article discusses the origins and evolution of the ideas, theory and practice of community oriented primary care. In South Africa in the 1940s a team headed by Sidney Kark embarked on work in the Pholela region of Natal that became the forerunner of ideas that were later formalized and systematized under the rubric of community oriented primary care. Widespread implementation took place in South Africa but was prematurely curtailed following the accession to power of the National Party. By the early 1960s many in the team had moved to Jerusalem where the theoretical basis of the concept was strengthened and came to describe a form of practice in which aspects of primary medical care and community health are integrated and systematically applied to a defined community. Experience with community oriented primary care in the United States and elsewhere is growing. This experience is reviewed and an assessment and critique offered.
Foster care in Soweto, South Africa: under assault from a politically hostile environment.	Institutionalized discrimination has progressively eroded the formerly cohesive black family structure in South Africa, resulting in an increased need for alternative care for black children, as shown most prominently in South Africa's most populous black urban area. Foster care's inherent problems are compounded not only by apartheid but also by the political unrest in the country. This article offers a profile of Sowetan foster families and the problems they face.
Chronic subcorneal pustulosis with vasculitis: a variant of generalized pustular psoriasis in black South Africans.	A rare, but distinctive chronic eruption in six female black South Africans is reported. The original diagnosis of subcorneal pustular dermatosis of Sneddon and Wilkinson in these patients was refuted by the subsequent histological observation of both spongiform pustules and an underlying vasculitis. This may represent a previously undocumented form of generalized pustular psoriasis.
Aedes albopictus in Africa? First records of live specimens in imported tires in Cape Town.	Live larvae of Aedes albopictus have been found entering South Africa in used tire casings imported from Japan on 3 separate occasions. This is the first evidence that this mosquito is entering Africa and underlines the value of mosquito monitoring programs to detect the importations of this important vector. It is suggested that undetected populations of Ae. albopictus may have already become established in Africa.
Profile of the community health nurse]	This article highlights the profile of the community health nurse in the South African context. Our changing society and also the move in emphasis to primary health care services places great emphasis on the important role of the community health nurse in the health services of the future. A brief historical overview gives the development of the training for community health nurses in this country from the traditional health visitor, to the present day comprehensive basic training where community health is seen as part of the basic training for nurses. The answer to questions such as who and what is the community health nurse in South Africa is discussed and some essential characteristics of this nurse are described. Recent South African Nursing Council statistics reveal that only 7 percent of all registered nurses have the additional qualification in community health. Other statistics provide a view on numbers of registered nurses with the additional qualification in the different race groups.
Academic boycott--political strategy or moral imperative? Selective support as a justifiable alternative.	Academic boycott has been justified as an appropriate political strategy in the struggle against the oppression of apartheid. Moral outrage against racist policies has led to the claim that academic boycott is a morally imperative component of a broader sanctions policy. This claim has neither been substantiated by a reasoned ethical argument nor weighted against an ethically justifiable approach that is consistent with universal humanitarian aspirations and which allows rejection of apartheid to be coupled to constructive endeavours.
Preschool development of coloured children in Cape Town.	Developmental screening was applied during infancy to a birth cohort of 1,000 coloured infants born consecutively in Cape Town. The developmental progress of a sample of 187 children randomly selected from the cohort was followed over a period of 5 years. The value of the use of developmental screening is questioned, since 4 of the children in the cohort with major handicap had been diagnosed before the first screening was carried out and a 5th child with deafness was not detected by the screening process. Developmental milestones were similar to those studies reported in the literature. At 12 months the development correlated best with family stability. Language development at 30 months was associated with mother's education and family stability and reflected a general lag in verbal skills. By 5 years there was a good correlation between development and social indicators, particularly income and mother's education.
Growth of preschool coloured children in Cape Town.	The growth of a random sample of coloured children in Cape Town was studied from birth until 5 years. At birth they were relatively light and short for gestational age. Size at birth correlated with social class. A rapid postnatal weight gain rendered them relatively overweight between 3 and 6 months. Thereafter they became lighter and shorter than the NCHS reference values and this persisted throughout the preschool period. Genetic factors, reflected by parental growth, were found to predict growth during childhood, but they were more predictive of weight and head circumference than of length. From 12 months onwards, socio-economic factors played a significant role in determining growth even after the effects of the genetic factors had been taken into account.
Innovative medicine--a case study of a modern healer.	African healing is widely regarded as inflexible and unchanging. By way of a case study, it is suggested that this is no longer the reality. Instead, the healer emerges as highly innovative in his quest to attract a steady clientele. A Xhosa healer, who borrows numerous medical items and symbols from his Western counterparts, is described.
Health status of hostel dwellers. Part I. Introduction, methodology and response rates.	A health status survey (October-November 1987) was carried out among the residents of the urban migrant council-built hostels outside Cape Town at Langa, Nyanga and Guguletu, at their request. The project is introduced and the basis for the interpretation of the findings is provided. Migrant labour and the resultant material and physical impoverishment provide the social context for this study. The hostel dwellers as a migrant or mobile population presented certain research challenges. The working concepts, including the notion of the 'bedhold', employed in this study to address the mobility of the population are outlined. the methodology describes how the range of criteria selected to measure health status was investigated in a single survey. The response rates suggest that surveys carried out in the urban location of a migrant labour situation do not access the poor in the broader migrant labour situation. Findings are treated with caution for what they infer for the broader migrant population.
Health status of hostel dwellers. Part III. Nutritional status of children 0--5 years.	The standards laid down by the National Center for Health Statistics in the USA were used to assess the nutritional status of children (0--5 years) in the Zones, an urban migrant council-built hostel complex in Langa, outside Cape Town. Of the children, 5.7% were below the 3rd percentile of weight-for-age (acute undernutrition). There was a significant difference between age categories and an increase in age was associated with an increase in proportion of children below the 3rd percentile. Acute undernutrition was significantly higher for children born outside Cape Town. There was a significant difference between age groups and percentage of children below the 3rd percentile of height-for-age (chronic undernutrition). Chronic nutritional levels were also significantly higher for children not born in Cape Town. Yet there were no significant differences between proportions of children under the 3rd percentile of height-for-weight (current nutritional status) for age category or place of birth. These results suggested that while in town children were adequately nourished, this was not the case at their home-base. Chronic undernutrition findings indicated an incremental negative effect of the poverty of the home-base on the long-term health status of hostel migrant children.
Health status of hostel dwellers. Part IV. Immunisation of children.	The immunisation status of children (0-5 years) living in the Zones, an urban migrant council-built hostel in Langa, was investigated to examine the effect of migrant labour and related to this, the effect of circular or oscillating migration between Cape Town and the eastern Cape (Transkei/Ciskei) on access to this preventive health care measure. 'Road-to-Health' cards were available for 69.4% of subjects--78.8% for those born in Cape Town and 50.8% for those born in Transkei. Immunisation of 'Road-to-Health' card holders ranged from 71.8% to 95%. The range dropped to 41-79.1% if it was assumed that children without 'Road-to-Health' cards (i.e. without positive proof of immunisation) had not been immunised. Children born in Cape Town have a significantly higher immunisation coverage than children born elsewhere (Transkei accounted for 82.7% of these children). Immunisations administered in Cape Town numbered 80.6%, while 62.6% of subjects were born in Cape Town. In Transkei, payment is required for immunisation, in Cape Town it is free. By implication, cost appeared to be an important reason for low coverage in Transkei. The findings of this study suggested that hostel migrant children who had access to the Cape Town health services through working parents had better immunisation coverage than children at the home-base who seldom or never reached the city.
Structural barriers to ART adherence in Southern Africa: Challenges and potential ways forward.	Structural barriers to antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence are economic, institutional, political and cultural factors, that collectively influence the extent to which persons living with HIV follow their medication regimens. We identify three sets of structural barriers to ART adherence that are salient in Southern Africa: poverty-related, institutional, and political and cultural. Examples of poverty-related barriers are competing demands in the context of resource-constrained settings, the lack of transport infrastructure, food insecurity, the role of disability grants and poor social support. Examples of institutional factors are logistical barriers, overburdened health care facilities, limited access to mental health services and difficulties in ensuring adequate counselling. Examples of political and cultural barriers are controversies in the provision of treatment for AIDS, migration, traditional beliefs about HIV and AIDS, poor health literacy and gender inequalities. In forging a way forward, we identify ways in which individuals, communities and health care systems may overcome some of these structural barriers. Finally, we make recommendations for further research on structural barriers to ART adherence. In all likelihood, enhancing adherence to ART requires the efforts of a variety of disciplines, including public health, psychology, anthropology, sociology and medicine.
Prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) programme in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa: an evaluation of PMTCT implementation and integration into routine maternal, child and women's health services.	To evaluate prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) implementation and integration of PMTCT with routine maternal and child health services in two districts of KwaZulu-Natal; to report PMTCT coverage, to compare recorded and reported information, and to describe responsibilities of nurses and lay counsellors.
Correlates of risky sexual behaviors in recently traditionally circumcised men from initiation lodges in the Eastern Cape, South Africa.	This exploratory quantitative study examines past risky sexual behaviors among young men who were circumcised as part of a rite of passage to adulthood embedded within a cultural and traditional belief system in the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa. Following permission from the Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders (ECHOTL), individual face-to-face interviews using a structured questionnaire were conducted among 114 initiates. The mean age of the participants was 18.9 years, ranging from 15 to 32 years old. About 79.8% reported already having had sex with a woman prior to initiation. Of those, 89% reported that they ever used condoms when having sex, and 61% reported consistent use. Logistic regression analysis showed that consistent condom use increased with higher educational levels. Those involved in other risky health behaviors (specifically, smoking) were also more likely to report inconsistent condom use. Most participants had positive beliefs about male circumcision and STI/HIV transmission. This study provides a first look at the sexual behaviors of young men at the time of their initiation in adulthood, a process that is intended to make it socially acceptable to initiate sexual relations and highlights a major public health challenge in integrating the protective health benefits of circumcision with indigenous cultural practices.
Patterns and implications of medical pluralism among HIV/AIDS patients in rural South Africa.	In some societies, medical pluralism has been demonstrated to delay access to care. We identified sources of health care, and explored utilization patterns and triggers of care-seeking behavior among HIV/AIDS patients in rural South Africa. A longitudinal qualitative study consisting of in-depth interviews was conducted. We purposively sampled thirty-two adult HIV clinic attendees. A high degree of medical pluralism occurred among participants before initiation of antiretroviral treatment (ART). After ART initiation, participants predominantly used the HIV/ART clinic, and utilization of private and traditional facilities decreased. Patterns included both concurrent and sequential pathways to public, private and traditional health sectors. HIV diagnosis and treatment were delayed despite early contact with health systems. Therefore, use of multiple health care modalities before ART initiation can lead to delayed HIV testing and ART initiation. Integrated-care has the potential to mitigate the impact of medical pluralism on access to HIV-related services over the longer term.
Long-term outcome of children receiving antiretroviral treatment in rural South Africa: substantial virologic failure on first-line treatment.	Long-term (>12 months follow-up) virologic data of children receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Sub-Saharan Africa are limited. Data from rural areas are especially scarce. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term virologic outcome of a pediatric cohort in rural South Africa.
Evaluating threats to an endangered species by proxy: air pollution as threat to the blue swallow (Hirundo atrocaerulea) in South Africa.	The blue swallow (Hirundo atrocaerulea) is one of the most threatened bird species in southern Africa. Among terrestrial birds, its plumage is known to be the most water repellent, an adaptation to foraging on the wing in dense fog. Despite this unique adaptation, the nesting success of the blue swallow at the Blue Swallow Natural Heritage Site (BSNHS) is lower during years with high incidence of fog. As the phenomenon is not observed at other nesting sites, we hypothesized that this is due to changes in the air chemistry at the BSNHS. In the immediate proximity of the BSNHS, plantations of exotic trees (e.g., pines and eucalypts), rich in volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are dominant features. In addition, air pollution from the Johannesburg area is transported with the surface winds and mix with VOCs released from exotic trees. Together with the high humidity and high elevation, these conditions may result in the formation of sulphonates. Sulphonates are strong detergents, and the presence of these in the fog could lead to decreased water repellence of the plumage. This study was performed in order to determine the occurrence and distribution of sulphonates in the BSNHS and to compare these with sulphonates formed in other locations in South Africa. Because the blue swallow is endangered, pine needles were used as proxy to detect formation of sulphonates.
Predictors of adherence to antiretroviral treatment and therapeutic success among children in South Africa.	The recent years have shown an up-scaling of treatment programs for HIV-infected children in resource-limited settings, with an increased focus on adherence. Little is known, however, about the influence of socioeconomic as well as caregivers' health beliefs on both adherence and virologic outcome of pediatric antiretroviral treatment in these settings. We conducted a cross-sectional study with 57 caregiver-child dyads at a public hospital in Cape Town, South Africa. Adherence was electronically monitored over three months, viral loads were available pre- and post-study. Caregivers answered questionnaires on their socioeconomic situation, attitudes toward and knowledge about treatment, and quality of life. Young children with a mean age of 51 months (SD 25.6) were investigated, and all were cared for by female caregivers. Mean adherence was 81%, and 67% of children achieved virologic suppression (VS). Household income, educational status, and child characteristics were not significantly correlated with adherence. Disclosure of both the child's and the caregiver's HIV status was linked to achieving VS and was a significant predictor for VS. A model including child's health status, caregiver's language skills, caregiver's disclosure, and perceived stigmatization could explain 95% of the variance in VS. Adherence and VS were not associated with socioeconomic factors in this population. Social factors such as stigmatization, fear of disclosure, and caregivers' attitudes toward the health-care system influenced VS but not adherence.
Community norms for HIV risk behaviors among men in a South African township.	We investigated alcohol-related sexual risk behavior from the perspective of social norms theory. Adults (N = 895, 62% men) residing in a South African township completed street-intercept surveys that assessed risk and protective behaviors (e.g., multiple partners, drinking before sex, meeting sex partners in shebeens, condom use) and corresponding norms. Men consistently overestimated the actual frequency of risky behaviors, as reported by the sample, and underestimated the frequency of condom use. Relative to actual attitudes, men believed that other men were more approving of risk behavior and less approving of condom use. Both behavioral and attitudinal norms predicted the respondents' self-reported risk behavior. These findings indicate that correcting inaccurate norms in HIV-risk reduction efforts is worthwhile.
The changing pattern of liver disease in South African Blacks.	Consecutive liver biopsies in a large general hospital for Blacks over the period 1959 - 1960 were compared with those in the 2-year period 1975 - 1976. Changes were noted in the histological appearances of micronodular cirrhosis. With the liberalization of the liquor laws and the granting of access to hard liquor to Blacks, fatty change, alcoholic hepatitis, alcoholic hyalin and alcoholic cirrhosis are making their appearance in the micronodular cirrhosis of the South African Blacks, features which were never observed when alcohol consumption was confined to homebrewed beverages containing large quantities of iron derived from the metallic containers in which liquor is brewed. No change in the histological picture or incidence of macronodular cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma was observed.
Prevalence of antibodies to a rotavirus in black and white populations in South Africa.	A serological survey of antibodies to a rotavirus in 252 sera from Black and White South Africans was performed by means of an immunofluorescence test using cells infected with simian rotavirus, SA 11, as antigen. The results indicate widespread presence of this agent in South Africa and also that the Black population is exposed to a greater extent than the White population.
Ecological parameters of Lamproglena hoi (Copepoda: Lernaeidae) infection on the Bushveld smallscale yellowfish, Labeobarbus polylepis (Boulenger, 1907).	This study describes the distribution and aspects of the ecology of Lamproglena hoi. Bushveld small-scale yellowfish, Labeobarbus polylepis (Boulenger, 1907) were collected during June 2006 from the Phongolo and Assegaai rivers, March 2005 and October 2006 from the Elands River, and January 2007 and June 2008 from the Komati River in Mpumalanga, South Africa and examined for the presence of parasites. Lamproglena hoi specimens were collected from the gill filaments of the host. Specimens were fixed with warm AFA (alcohol-formaldehyde-acetic acid) and preserved in 70% ethanol. The identification of parasites took place in the laboratories of the University of Johannesburg. Twenty-five copepods (prevalence 21%, mean intensity = 4.17, abundance = 0.86) were collected on 29 fish in the Phongolo River and 46 copepods (prevalence 40%, mean intensity = 3.83, abundance = 1.53) were collected on 30 fish in the Assegaai River. One hundred and sixty eight copepods (prevalence 52%, mean intensity = 12.92, abundance = 6.72) were collected on 25 fish in 2005, and 527 copepods (prevalence 95%, mean intensity = 27.74, abundance = 26.35) were collected on 20 fish in the Elands River. One hundred and sixteen copepods (prevalence 75%, mean intensity = 7.73, abundance = 5.80) were collected on 20 fish in 2007, and 273 copepods (prevalence 63%, mean intensity = 16.06, abundance = 10.11) were collected on 27 fish in 2008 in the Komati River. Labeobarbus polylepis from these four rivers was found to have a relatively high L. hoi infection. Inseminated L. hoi females (immature) attach to the host in winter and their ovaries become conspicuous (mature). In spring fertilized eggs are stored in egg sacs hanging from the body (gravid), indicating that fertilized eggs start to hatch in spring and continued hatching into summer. Parasites prefer the median part of the second gill arch for attachment. No correlation exists between the number of parasites recorded on the gills and the sizes (total lengths) of yellowfish sampled.
The impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy on activities of daily living in HIV-infected adults in South Africa.	This study investigated the relationship between highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) among two clinical cohorts in South Africa. Between 2003 and 2008 structured questionnaires were administered to HIV-positive patients attending outpatient clinics at an urban hospital (Soweto, n = 3,081) and a rural hospital (Acornhoek, n = 1,247). Among those receiving help, an average of 4.8 and 5.1 h of assistance with IADLs daily was reported (rural and urban participants, respectively), with the patient's mother and children assisting the most. Participants on HAART were 17 and 41% less likely to receive assistance with IADLs in the rural and urban cohorts, respectively, after adjusting for demographic characteristics, healthcare utilization, and CD4 counts. HAART significantly decreased the IADL assistance among patients in South Africa. Alongside clinical benefits, HAART has the potential to reduce the burden of HIV-related care, potentially extending wider social and economic gains to other family members.
Factors influencing the vitamin D status of 10-year-old urban South African children.	Assessment of vitamin D status in a cohort of healthy 10-year-old urban children and the factors that influence vitamin D status in these children.
Witchcraft in Transkei Region of South African: case report.	Witchcraft and witch-hunt have been practiced widely almost all over the world. It is known as magic in Europe, maleficium (wrong-doing) in Latin America, and superpower in Asia. In Africa those accused of being witches often face execution. A range of accusations are leveled against witches such as causing impotence, turning milk sour, causing disease and death.Three cases are presented here to highlight the issues related to witch craft in Transkei area. The information was given by the next of kin at the time of autopsy. All were elderly women over 50 years of age. The first was related to tuberculosis of the brother of the perpetrator the second, death of the culprit's relative and third the death of culprits brother in Johannesburg. The first and third victims were brutally chopped by axe and in the second it was a firearm injury. The case history, the type of wounds, and medico-legal aspects of death are discussed in these reports. There law related to witchcraft and their implementations to prevent such deaths are discussed.
Studying a population undergoing nutrition transition: a practical case study of dietary assessment in urban South African adolescents.	The South African Medical Research Council food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and protocol was used to determine food intake in 83 adolescents from the Birth To Twenty study. The FFQ was piloted on a small group (n=8). Specific problems which resulted in overestimation of energy intake were identified. The protocol was modified and administered to the remainder of the adolescents and their caregivers. Reasonable energy intakes were obtained, and time spent completing the FFQ was reduced. The modified protocol was more successful in determining habitual food intake although it would benefit from validation against other dietary intake techniques.
The dominant methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus clone from hospitals in Cape Town has an unusual genotype: ST612.	There is currently limited information available on the molecular epidemiology of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in South Africa. A molecular characterization of 100 MRSA from five hospitals in Cape Town was carried out in this study. The strains were separated into six clusters by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, indicating transmission of MRSA between local hospitals. None of the strains carried the Panton-Valentine Leukocidin gene. SCCmec typing, multilocus sequence typing and spa typing were used to further characterize the MRSA. Three clones corresponded to frequently described pandemic clones: ST239-MRSA-III, ST36-MRSA-II and ST5-MRSA-I. ST239-MRSA-III and ST36-MRSA-II were minor clones and collectively accounted for 16% of the isolates. ST5-MRSA-I was the second-most prevalent clone and accounted for 37% of the isolates. The dominant local clone was the infrequently described ST612-MRSA-IV (44% of isolates), which has only been described in South Africa and Australia.
Improving waste management through a process of learning: the South African waste information system.	Piloting of the South African Waste Information System (SAWIS) provided an opportunity to research whether the collection of data for a national waste information system could, through a process of learning, change the way that waste is managed in the country, such that there is a noticeable improvement. The interviews with officials from municipalities and private waste companies, conducted as part of the piloting of the SAWIS, highlighted that certain organizations, typically private waste companies have been successful in collecting waste data. Through a process of learning, these organizations have utilized this waste data to inform and manage their operations. The drivers of such data collection efforts were seen to be financial (business) sustainability and environmental reporting obligations, particularly where the company had an international parent company. However, participants highlighted a number of constraints, particularly within public (municipal) waste facilities which hindered both the collection of waste data and the utilization of this data to effect change in the way waste is managed. These constraints included a lack of equipment and institutional capacity in the collection of data. The utilization of this data in effecting change was further hindered by governance challenges such as politics, bureaucracy and procurement, evident in a developing country context such as South Africa. The results show that while knowledge is a necessary condition for resultant action, a theoretical framework of learning does not account for all observed factors, particularly external influences.
Towards zero waste: a case study in the City of Tshwane.	Tshwane is presently landfilling all of its municipal solid waste (MSW) with no pre-processing or minimization efforts. This is a result of the available capacity of its existing landfills, thought to be able to satisfy the city's needs for, at most, the next 10 years. It is possible that the authorities will not wake up to the problem before it is too late. This study addresses these challenges. This study first identified and evaluated technologies available in developed countries for processing the various components of the MSW stream, appropriate to local conditions, as an alternative to landfilling, to ensure that these components will be either reused, recycled or rendered harmless to the environment before disposal. Then most appropriate technologies for Tshwane were selected and assembled into an optimal configuration to achieve a zero waste situation in Tshwane within a decade or two. This represents a significant change in MSW management in Tshwane, from total landfill to zero waste to landfill. Although the study focused on Tshwane, it can be argued that the findings can be implemented in any other South African municipality, and even implemented in other emerging countries.
Polystoma vernoni n. sp. (Monogenea: Polystomatidae) from the sharp nosed grass frog Ptychadena oxyrhynchus (Smith, 1849) in South Africa.	Polystoma vernoni (Polystomatidae) is a new species in the urinary bladder of Ptychadena oxyrhynchus in KwaZulu-Natal province, South Africa. Ptychadena is a true African species and the 49 currently known species in Africa harbour 11 polystome parasites. Ptychadena oxyrhynchus has an extensive distribution through Africa and harbours Polystoma prudhoei in West Africa. This new parasite differs significantly from P. prudhoei. The new species is distinguished by its long body relative to its haptor length, its unique shape and its ratio of marginal hooklets. In a sample of 13 frogs, 53.8% were infected with up to 18 parasites per host (mean intensity 4.86).
Assessing the reporting of adherence and sexual activity in a simulated microbicide trial in South Africa: an interview mode experiment using a placebo gel.	Misreporting of adherence undermines detection of an association between product use and HIV infection in microbicide trials. This study investigates whether, in a placebo trial, audio computer-assisted self-interviewing (ACASI) produces more accurate reporting of adherence and sexual behavior than a face-to-face interview (FTFI). At three South African clinics, 849 women were enrolled and instructed to use applicators filled with placebo gel; participants were randomly assigned to FTFI or ACASI. Behavioral reports were validated through two biomarkers that detect product usage and unprotected sex. For most behaviors, ACASI generated significantly higher reporting, although differences by interview mode appeared to diminish over time. ACASI participants were more likely to report having had sex without gel, but reported and tested applicators did not indicate greater honesty about gel insertion with ACASI. While comparisons of reported unprotected sex with the validated biomarker revealed more agreement with ACASI than with FTFI, differences were small.
Standard measures are inadequate to monitor pediatric adherence in a resource-limited setting.	This study aims to compare the use and cost of objective and subjective measures of adherence to pediatric antiretroviral treatment in a primary care facility in South Africa. In a 1-month longitudinal study of 53 caregiver-child dyads, pharmacy refill (PR), measurement of returned syrups (RS), caregiver self-report (3DR) and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) were compared to Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS). Adherence was 100% for both VAS and 3DR; by PR and RS 100% and 103%, respectively. MEMS showed that 92% of prescribed doses were administered, but only 66% of these within the correct 12-hourly interval. None of the four measures correlated significantly with MEMS. MEMS data suggest that timing of doses is often more deviant from prescribed than expected and should be better addressed when monitoring adherence. Of all, MEMS was by far the most expensive measure. Alternative, cheaper electronic devices need to be more accessible in resource-limited settings.
HIV-related stigma, social norms, and HIV testing in Soweto and Vulindlela, South Africa: National Institutes of Mental Health Project Accept (HPTN 043).	HIV testing is necessary to curb the increasing epidemic. However, HIV-related stigma and perceptions of low likelihood of societal HIV testing may reduce testing rates. This study aimed to explore this association in South Africa, where HIV rates are extraordinarily high.
Identification of predominant culturable vaginal Lactobacillus species and associated bacteriophages from women with and without vaginal discharge syndrome in South Africa.	Lactobacillus jensenii, Lactobacillus crispatus, Lactobacillus iners, Lactobacillus gasseri and Lactobacillus vaginalis were identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing as the predominant culturable vaginal Lactobacillus species in a group of South African women, comprising 24, 22, 10, 10 and 9 %, respectively. A significant effect of vaginal discharge syndrome (VDS) and bacterial vaginosis (BV) on the distribution of predominant Lactobacillus species was observed. Whilst L. crispatus isolates were almost equally distributed between individuals with and without VDS and were not significantly reduced in women with BV versus normal microflora, L. jensenii isolates were significantly reduced in women with VDS (P=0.022) and reduced in women with BV versus normal microflora (P=0.053). Unlike L. crispatus, L. jensenii isolates were also significantly reduced in women with BV-associated VDS versus women without VDS and with normal microflora (P=0.051). In addition, lysogeny was commonly observed for L. crispatus, with 77 % of isolates yielding phage particles with contractile and non-contractile tails. Only 29 % of L. jensenii isolates yielded phage particles, and these were visible as tailless or podo-like particles.
Morphological correlates of echolocation frequency in the endemic Cape horseshoe bat, Rhinolophus capensis (Chiroptera: Rhinolophidae).	We investigated intraspecific variation in echolocation calls of the Cape horseshoe bat, Rhinolophus capensis, by comparing echolocation and associated morphological parameters among individuals from three populations of this species. The populations were situated in the center and at the western and eastern limits of the distribution of R. capensis. The latter two populations were situated in ecotones between vegetation biomes. Ecotone populations deviated slightly from the allometric relationship between body size and peak frequency for the genus, and there was no relationship between these variables within R. capensis. Nasal chamber length was the best predictor of peak frequency but not correlated with body size. The evolution of echolocation thus appears to have been uncoupled from body size in R. capensis. Furthermore, females used higher frequencies than males, which imply a potential social role for peak frequency. The differences in peak frequency may have originated from random founder effects and then compounded by genetic drift and/or natural selection. The latter may have acted directly on peak frequency altering skull parameters involved in echolocation independently of body size, resulting in the evolution of local acoustic signatures.
Trace element concentrations from lichen transplants in Pretoria, South Africa.	The purpose of this study was to assess the level and possible sources of trace elements in Tshwane metropolis using transplanted lichen thallus of Parmelia sulcata with a view to evaluating the ability of this lichen species to monitor air pollutants from a perceived polluted environment.
Investigation on the utility of permanent maxillary molar cusp areas for sex estimation.	Digital photogrammetric methods were employed to assess the level of sexual dimorphism present in permanent maxillary molar cusp areas of black South Africans (130 males, 105 females). Odontometric standards were then developed for diagnosing sex, based on the cusp area data derived for these teeth. Results demonstrated that all cusp area measurements of both the first and second maxillary molars were significantly dimorphic (P < 0.0001) in this group. Univariate and multivariate discriminant function analyses yielded overall sex prediction accuracy rates between 59.6 and 74.5%. Comparable allocation results were also obtained for binary logistic regression analyses, but with larger classification sex biases. The highest classification accuracies were observed for different combinations of just two cusp areas for the first molar. Allocation rates of formulae derived for second molar dimensions were on average 4.3% lower than those obtained for the first molar. Analyses incorporating cusp areas of both maxillary molars did not improve classification accuracies achieved when only using first molar measurements. The classification rates are below the suggested minimum accuracy of 75-80% for reliable forensic application of a method; however, the derived formulae may provide a useful statistical indication as to the sex of fragmentary remains in which complete or even partial tooth crowns are the only materials available for examination. Furthermore, the formulae can be applied not only to adults but also to subadults (above the age of 3 years) in which the more accurate sex discriminating features of the pelvis and skull are yet to develop.
The development of an Afrikaans test for sentence recognition thresholds in noise.	The development of a valid and reliable Afrikaans test of sentence recognition thresholds in noise.
Description and comparison of the pupae of a further two Culicoides (Avaritia) species from the dung of large herbivores in South Africa (Diptera:Ceratopogonidae).	In 2007 Nevill, Venter, Meiswinkel & Nevill demonstrated that the pupae of five Culicoides species belonging to the Imicola complex of the subgenus Avaritia could readily be differentiated from one another using various morphological characters. Three of the described species, Culicoides bolitinos Meiswinkel 1989; Culicoides loxodontis Meiswinkel 1992 and Culicoides sp. # 107 (= C. kwagga, Meiswinkel, unpublished thesis 1995), were reared from the dung of large herbivores, which included buffaloes, elephants, white and black rhinoceroses and zebras. However, during that study a further two Avaritia species, neither of which belonged to the Imicola complex, were reared from dung and these are the subject of the present study. For the past 20 years the adults of these two new closely related species have been known as Culicoides sp. # 54 pale form (p.f.) Meiswinkel and Culicoides sp. # 54 dark form (d.f.) Meiswinkel. The taxonomic description and formal naming of the adults of these two species has yet to be done. The present description and comparison of their pupae show that they are two clearly distinct species; that there is no group of morphological characters that can be used to differentiate these two species from the previously described five species of the Imicola complex; and finally that there was no difference between the pupae of C. sp. # 54 d.f. nor C. sp. # 54 p.f. reared from the dung of different host animals.
Influence of culture on contraceptive utilization among HIV-positive women in Brazil, Kenya, and South Africa.	Contraceptive choice and discontinuation are poorly understood among HIV-positive women, and HIV disease and culture may influence decisions. We assessed factors influencing contraceptive decision-making among HIV-positive women in three countries. This qualitative assessment of 108 HIV-positive women (36/site, selected by age and parity strata) was conducted in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Kericho, Kenya; and Soweto, South Africa. Freelist interviews assessed knowledge and attitudes towards contraception and were analyzed enumerating frequency and saliency of mentions. There was intersite consensus around list items but priority and themes varied. Site-specific factors influencing contraceptive choice were male partner wishes and fertility desire (Brazil), side-effects (South Africa), and impact on health and HIV progression (Kenya). Age, parity, and taking antiretroviral therapy (ART) impacted some themes. Contraceptive use among HIV-positive women is substantially influenced by culture and other factors. Counseling efforts should consider individual factors in method selection and offer method variety to accommodate changing needs.
Incremental costs of introducing jet injection technology for delivery of routine childhood vaccinations: comparative analysis from Brazil, India, and South Africa.	Disposable-syringe jet injectors (DSJIs) have the potential to deliver vaccines safely and affordably to millions of children around the world. We estimated the incremental costs of transitioning from needles and syringes to delivering childhood vaccines with DSJIs in Brazil, India, and South Africa.
Spatial patterns of phylogenetic diversity.	Ecologists and conservation biologists have historically used species-area and distance-decay relationships as tools to predict the spatial distribution of biodiversity and the impact of habitat loss on biodiversity. These tools treat each species as evolutionarily equivalent, yet the importance of species' evolutionary history in their ecology and conservation is becoming increasingly evident. Here, we provide theoretical predictions for phylogenetic analogues of the species-area and distance-decay relationships. We use a random model of community assembly and a spatially explicit flora dataset collected in four Mediterranean-type regions to provide theoretical predictions for the increase in phylogenetic diversity - the total phylogenetic branch-length separating a set of species - with increasing area and the decay in phylogenetic similarity with geographic separation. These developments may ultimately provide insights into the evolution and assembly of biological communities, and guide the selection of protected areas.
A micronutrient powder with low doses of highly absorbable iron and zinc reduces iron and zinc deficiency and improves weight-for-age Z-scores in South African children.	Micronutrient powders (MNP) are often added to complementary foods high in inhibitors of iron and zinc absorption. Most MNP therefore include high amounts of iron and zinc, but it is no longer recommended in malarial areas to use untargeted MNP that contain the Reference Nutrient Intake for iron in a single serving. The aim was to test the efficacy of a low-iron and -zinc (each 2.5 mg) MNP containing iron as NaFeEDTA, ascorbic acid (AA), and an exogenous phytase active at gut pH. In a double-blind controlled trial, South African school children with low iron status (n = 200) were randomized to receive either the MNP or the unfortified carrier added just before consumption to a high-phytate maize porridge 5 d/wk for 23 wk; primary outcomes were iron and zinc status and a secondary outcome was somatic growth. Compared with the control, the MNP increased serum ferritin (P < 0.05), body iron stores (P < 0.01) and weight-for-age Z-scores (P < 0.05) and decreased transferrin receptor (P < 0.05). The prevalence of iron deficiency fell by 30.6% (P < 0.01) and the prevalence of zinc deficiency decreased by 11.8% (P < 0.05). Absorption of iron from the MNP was estimated to be 7-8%. Inclusion of an exogenous phytase combined with NaFeEDTA and AA may allow a substantial reduction in the iron dose from existing MNP while still delivering adequate iron and zinc. In addition, the MNP is likely to enhance absorption of the high native iron content of complementary foods based on cereals and/or legumes.
Liver lipids of female Carcharias taurus (spotted raggedtooth) sharks: a comparison between seasons.	Female raggedtooth sharks (Carcharias taurus) migrate from the waters off the eastern Cape past KwaZulu-Natal and up to southern Mozambique and then back on an annual basis. They mate off the KwaZulu-Natal coast, gestate the pups off Mozambique, then deliver same off the eastern Cape. Prior to mating, they hypertrophise their livers and store large amounts of lipid, then towards the end of gestation subsist on this stored lipid as well as using it to feed their pups in utero. Raggedtooth sharks are aplacental, and hepatic lipids provide nutrients to the pups via continued ovulation throughout pregnancy. The fact of the liver hypertrophy was well documented, but whether the nature of the stored lipid or the amount of lipid per Kg of liver changed with season was unknown. Samples from raggedtooth females caught throughout the year were analysed for their lipid and fatty acid contents and significant differences noted between lipid, but not fatty acid, concentration with certain seasons. Liver mass decreased from spring to winter (16.3-9.9 kg) as did lipid concentration (572-326 mg/g). Within the fatty acids, 22:6n3 was ±17%, 20:5n3 ±7%, total n3 ±30% and total n6 ±7%. Also, both total polyunsaturates (±36%) and total monounsaturates (±33%) were greater than the total saturates (±28%).
Manganese and lead in children's blood and airborne particulate matter in Durban, South Africa.	Despite the toxicity and widespread use of manganese (Mn) and lead (Pb) as additives to motor fuels and for other purposes, information regarding human exposure in Africa is very limited. This study investigates the environmental exposures of Mn and Pb in Durban, South Africa, a region that has utilized both metals in gasoline. Airborne metals were sampled as PM(2.5) and PM(10) at three sites, and blood samples were obtained from a population-based sample of 408 school children attending seven schools. In PM(2.5), Mn and Pb concentrations averaged 17±27 ng m(-3) and 77±91 ng m(-3), respectively; Mn concentrations in PM(10) were higher (49±44 ng m(-3)). In blood, Mn concentrations averaged 10.1±3.4 μg L(-1) and 8% of children exceeded 15 μg L(-1), the normal range. Mn concentrations fit a lognormal distribution. Heavier and Indian children had elevated levels. Pb in blood averaged 5.3±2.1 μg dL(-1), and 3.4% of children exceeded 10 μg dL(-1), the guideline level. Pb levels were best fit by a mixed (extreme value) distribution, and boys and children living in industrialized areas of Durban had elevated levels. Although airborne Mn and Pb concentrations were correlated, blood levels were not. A trend analysis shows dramatic decreases of Pb levels in air and children's blood in South Africa, although a sizable fraction of children still exceeds guideline levels. The study's findings suggest that while vehicle exhaust may contribute to exposures of both metals, other sources currently dominate Pb exposures.
Decline of birds in a human modified coastal dune forest landscape in South Africa.	Previous studies demonstrate that old-growth forest remnants and vegetation regenerating after anthropogenic disturbance provide habitat for birds in a human modified coastal dune forest landscape in northern KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. However, occurrence does not ensure persistence. Based on a 13-year monitoring database we calculated population trends for 37 bird species and general trends in overall bird density in different vegetation types. We evaluated species' characteristics as covariates of population trend and assessed changes in rainfall and proportional area and survey coverage per vegetation type. 76% of species assessed have declined, 57% significantly so at an average rate of 13.9% per year. Overall, bird density has fallen at 12.2% per year across old-growth forest and woody regenerating vegetation types. Changes in proportional area and coverage per vegetation type may partly explain trends for a few species but are unlikely to account for most. Below average rainfall may have contributed to bird declines. However, other possibilities warrant further investigation. Species with larger range extents tended to decline more sharply than did others, and these species may be responding to environmental changes on a broader geographical scale. Our results cast doubt on the future persistence of birds in this human modified landscape. More research is needed to elucidate the mechanisms driving population decline in the study area and to investigate whether the declines identified here are more widespread across the region and perhaps the continent.
Performance of serum C-reactive protein as a screening test for smear-negative tuberculosis in an ambulatory high HIV prevalence population.	Delayed diagnosis has contributed to the high mortality of sputum smear-negative tuberculosis (SNTB) in high HIV prevalence countries. New diagnostic strategies for SNTB are urgently needed. C-reactive protein (CRP) is a non-specific inflammatory protein that is usually elevated in patients with tuberculosis, but its role in the diagnosis of tuberculosis is uncertain.
Effects of harvesting flowers from shrubs on the persistence and abundance of wild shrub populations at multiple spatial extents.	Wildflower harvesting is an economically important activity of which the ecological effects are poorly understood. We assessed how harvesting of flowers affects shrub persistence and abundance at multiple spatial extents. To this end, we built a process-based model to examine the mean persistence and abundance of wild shrubs whose flowers are subject to harvest (serotinous Proteaceae in the South African Cape Floristic Region). First, we conducted a general sensitivity analysis of how harvesting affects persistence and abundance at nested spatial extents. For most spatial extents and combinations of demographic parameters, persistence and abundance of flowering shrubs decreased abruptly once harvesting rate exceeded a certain threshold. At larger extents, metapopulations supported higher harvesting rates before their persistence and abundance decreased, but persistence and abundance also decreased more abruptly due to harvesting than at smaller extents. This threshold rate of harvest varied with species' dispersal ability, maximum reproductive rate, adult mortality, probability of extirpation or local extinction, strength of Allee effects, and carrying capacity. Moreover, spatial extent interacted with Allee effects and probability of extirpation because both these demographic properties affected the response of local populations to harvesting more strongly than they affected the response of metapopulations. Subsequently, we simulated the effects of harvesting on three Cape Floristic Region Proteaceae species and found that these species reacted differently to harvesting, but their persistence and abundance decreased at low rates of harvest. Our estimates of harvesting rates at maximum sustainable yield differed from those of previous investigations, perhaps because researchers used different estimates of demographic parameters, models of population dynamics, and spatial extent than we did. Good demographic knowledge and careful identification of the spatial extent of interest increases confidence in assessments and monitoring of the effects of harvesting. Our general sensitivity analysis improved understanding of harvesting effects on metapopulation dynamics and allowed qualitative assessment of the probability of extirpation of poorly studied species.
Socio-economic and clinical factors predictive of paediatric quality of life post burn.	Burns represent the second most common cause of non-intentional death in children under the age of five. Burns are amongst the most traumatic injuries and may impose significant psychological, educational, social and future occupational limitations to the young child. This cross-sectional study aimed to determine the socio-economic and clinical factors which predict quality of life in children with burn in a burns unit in South Africa. The Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) and the Household Economic and Social Status Index (HESSI) questionnaires were administered to children and their caregivers one week and three months post discharge from the Johnson and Johnson Paediatric Burns Unit, Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, Soweto. The improvement in the PedsQL scores suggests that the quality of life for children three months after discharge is good despite being burnt. The severity of the burn was found to be a significant predictor of quality of life (p=0.00). Poor socio-economic status was clearly evident in demographic data of the subjects. The findings from this study are particularly important in identifying areas for further research that would be beneficial to developing countries. Furthermore, the results are important in the move towards more holistic care for paediatric burn survivors.
Culture conversion among HIV co-infected multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in Tugela Ferry, South Africa.	Little is known about the time to sputum culture conversion in MDR-TB patients co-infected with HIV, although such patients have, historically, had poor outcomes. We describe culture conversion rates among MDR-TB patients with and without HIV-co-infection in a TB-endemic, high-HIV prevalent, resource-limited setting.
Structural barriers to adherence to antiretroviral therapy in a resource-constrained setting: the perspectives of health care providers.	The present study examined the chief structural barriers to antiretroviral treatment (ART) adherence from the perspective of health care workers who provide treatment to patients living with HIV and AIDS in South Africa. The main barrier to adherence as identified by participants in the study was the stigma associated with living with HIV, and thus with receiving AIDS treatment. A second barrier was the fact that some patients willfully decide to forgo treatment so that they could retain state disability benefits associated with a low CD4 count. Other barriers included the lack of finances for transport to clinics and food insecurity, especially when medication needed to be taken with food. These barriers to ART adherence are conceptualized in terms of Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Systems Theory.
Is 80% a passing grade? Meanings attached to condom use in an abstinence-plus HIV prevention programme in South Africa.	This study represents the first qualitative exploration of how condoms are perceived by at-risk youth, their parents, their teachers and HIV prevention programme staff in an abstinence-plus HIV prevention programme. Behavioural interventions for HIV prevention with youth may be divided into three categories, each with a different approach to condoms: abstinence-only, abstinence-plus and comprehensive approaches. Research has highlighted the limitations of abstinence-only approaches and the emergence of early support for abstinence-plus interventions as HIV prevention strategies. Furthermore, research consistently demonstrates that condoms are socially mediated, reflecting diverse norms. However, there is a gap in the literature in terms of how condom use is framed, understood and represented by those delivering and receiving an abstinence-plus programme. This is critically important because advocates of a comprehensive approach to HIV prevention have flagged concern with the degree to which abstinence-plus programming may undermine confidence in condom use. Therefore, this study analyses meanings attached to condom use by stakeholders in an abstinence-plus HIV prevention programme in South Africa. Results demonstrate diverse meanings attached to condom use, including: condoms as second best to abstinence; condoms as a gendered response to HIV; condoms as a source of mockery; condoms as futile in a high-prevalence setting; condoms as part of conspiracy beliefs along racial and colonial lines; and, condoms as popular in HIV prevention because they can be counted. These findings have particular bearing for abstinence-plus HIV prevention programmes, which face the double challenge of (1) engaging with condom promotion in a way that takes into account their diverse social meanings, and (2) promoting condoms within their hierarchical framework of options in a way that does not inadvertently discourage their use.
Hoodia gordonii: an up-to-date review of a commercially important anti-obesity plant.	Hoodia gordonii is a spiny succulent plant popularly consumed for its purported anti-obesity effect. Traditionally used by the Khoi-San of South Africa and Namibia as a hunger and thirst suppressant while on long hunting trips, the commercialisation of this plant has been highly controversial due to intellectual property rights and benefit sharing issues, as well as the fact that several prominent pharmaceutical companies involved in its development have withdrawn their interest. Quality control has been the main focus of scientific studies as the supply of H. gordonii plant material is limited due to its sparse geographical distribution, slow maturation rate, need for a permit to cultivate or export material as well as high public demand, contributing to adulteration of a large amount of products. Despite the isolation of numerous steroidal glycosides from H. gordonii, the main focus has been on the pregnane glycoside P57, considered to be the active ingredient and marker molecule to determine quality of raw material and products. Publications based on scientific studies of key aspects such as in vivo biopharmaceutics, the biological activity of all chemical constituents, clinical efficacy, and especially safety are insufficient or completely absent causing great concern as H. gordonii is one of the most widely consumed anti-obesity products of natural origin. This review offers an up-to-date overview of all the current available knowledge pertaining to H. gordonii achieved by systematic analysis of the available literature.
Clinical manifestations and outcome in HIV-infected young infants presenting with acute illness in Durban, South Africa.	In young infants, early development of symptomatic HIV infection increases the risk of morbidity and mortality. A prospective study was conducted over a 1-year period in a region with a high burden of HIV in order to describe the clinical presentation of HIV infection in infants aged between 0 and 59 days on attendance at hospital and the factors associated with the need for urgent hospital management.
Age at diagnosis of preinvasive and invasive cervical neoplasia in South Africa: HIV-positive versus HIV-negative women.	Human immunodeficiency virus-positive women develop invasive cervical cancer at a significantly earlier age than seronegative women. It is hypothesized that this might result from shorter preinvasive stages.
Lack of effect from a previous single dose of nevirapine on virologic and immunologic responses after 6 months of antiretroviral regimens containing either efavirenz or lopinavir-ritonavir.	To evaluate the effect of a previous single dose of nevirapine given to prevent mother-to-child transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) on virologic and immunologic measures after months of an antiretroviral regimen containing either efavirenz or lopinavir-ritonavir.
The use of light-emitting diode fluorescence to diagnose mycobacterial lymphadenitis in fine-needle aspirates from children.	Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) is a simple, safe and effective method for investigating suspected mycobacterial lymphadenitis in children. Fluorescence microscopy can provide rapid mycobacterial confirmation. Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) provide a cheap and robust excitation light source, making fluorescence microscopy feasible in resource-limited settings.
Use of fluoroquinolone antibiotics leads to tuberculosis treatment delay in a South African gold mining community.	Empiric use of fluoroquinolone (FQ) antibiotics could delay tuberculosis (TB) treatment and lead to FQ-resistant TB.
Lay health worker-supported tuberculosis treatment adherence in South Africa: an interrupted time-series study.	Better integration of treatment support for people living with tuberculosis (TB) and human immuno-deficiency virus/acquired immune-deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) is a challenge in many settings, and has been identified as a service priority.
Intention to quit smoking among human immunodeficiency virus infected adults in Johannesburg, South Africa.	Although smoking is common in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected individuals, in resource-constrained, high HIV prevalence settings, information on smoking cessation intent and acceptability is limited. Of 150 self-reported current smokers surveyed in two South African HIV clinics, 62 (42%) reported intent to quit smoking in the next year, while 86 (58%) were not interested in quitting or had no plan to quit; 132 (82%) had attempted to quit at least once in the past. Respondents' preferred cessation strategies were counseling and nicotine replacement. A high proportion of HIV-infected smokers want to quit, and interventions should be provided as part of HIV care.
Internationalising university schools of nursing in South Africa through a Community of Practice.	International nursing experiences in higher education have traditionally enabled and continue to enable nurses to appreciate '...the richness of the nursing mosaic...and the realities of nursing in many different cultural contexts'. This article describes a case study of the Collaboration for Higher Education of Nurses and Midwives in Africa in terms of its success in internationalising the nursing schools involved.
Amitraz poisoning in South Africa: a two year survey (2008-2009).	Analysis of the annual pesticide poisoning statistics of the Tygerberg Poison Information Centre (TPIC) for the period 2005-2007 showed an increase in the number of amitraz poisonings. This prompted a 2-year survey (2008-2009) to establish the extent of amitraz poisoning in South Africa. Amitraz is a pesticide used as a tick dip. It acts as an α(2)-adrenoceptor agonist and the principal clinical effects of amitraz poisoning are related to its stimulation of these receptors;
Restraints in intensive care units--a mixed method study.	The use of mechanical restraints is a controversial practice internationally but is common in South African Intensive Care Units (ICUs). Their use was studied in the ICUs of an academic, public hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa.
Scanning electron microscopy of fibrin networks in rheumatoid arthritis: a qualitative analysis.	Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory condition that affects mainly synovial joints and has an impact on approximately 1% of the Western population. The coagulation process is altered in this condition, and this is frequently complicated by thrombocytosis. Changes in fibrin morphology have been linked with inflammation, and this, in turn, plays an important role in thrombosis. Changes in the fibrin fiber formation cause the alterations observed in thrombus morphology. In the current study, the ultrastructure of platelets and fibrin networks was investigated to determine whether any morphological changes are present in these structures in patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis. Six patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis took part in this study, and their clot morphology was compared to that of control subjects. Citrated blood with and without the addition of thrombin was used. Results indicated that the fibrin networks in the arthritis patients formed thick, matted layers. This matted appearance is due to a changed ultrastructure of the minor, thin fibers. Also, in these patients, spontaneous networks were created without the addition of thrombin, which indicates an abnormal hemostatic protein functioning, and the latter is expressed as visible changes in ultrastructure.
A stochastic model accommodating the FAMACHA© system for estimating worm burdens and associated risk factors in sheep naturally infected with Haemonchus contortus.	A previously developed multiple regression algorithm was used as the basis of a stochastic model to simulate worm burdens in sheep naturally infected with Haemonchus contortus over five consecutive Haemonchus seasons (November to January/February) on a farm in the summer rainfall region in South Africa, although only one season is discussed. The algorithm associates haemoglobin levels with worm counts in individual animals. Variables were represented by distributions based on FAMACHA(©) scores and body weights of sheep, and Monte Carlo sampling was used to simulate worm burdens. Under conditions of high disease risk, defined as the sampling event during the worm season with the lowest relative mean haemoglobin level for a class of sheep, the model provided a distribution function for mean class H. contortus burdens and the probability of these occurring. A mean H. contortus burden for ewes (n=130 per sample) of approximately 1000 (range 51-28,768) and 2933 (range 78-44,175) for rams (n=120 per sample) was predicted under these conditions. At the beginning of the worm season when the risk of disease was lowest (i.e. when both classes had their highest estimated mean haemoglobin levels), a mean worm burden of 525 (range 39-4910) for ewes and 651 (range 37-17,260) for rams was predicted. Model indications were that despite being selectively drenched according to FAMACHA(©) evaluation, 72% of the ewes would maintain their mean worm burden below an arbitrarily selected threshold of 1000 even when risk of disease was at its highest. In contrast, far fewer rams (27%) remained below this threshold, especially towards the end of the worm season. The model was most sensitive to changes in haemoglobin value, and thus by extrapolation, the haematocrit, which is used as the gold standard for validating the FAMACHA(©) system. The mean class haemoglobin level at which there was a 50% probability of worm burdens being ≤ 1000 worms was 7.05 g/dl in ewes and 7.92 g/dl in rams.
Application of ROC curve analysis to FAMACHA© evaluation of haemonchosis on two sheep farms in South Africa.	Test sensitivity and specificity for the FAMACHA(©) clinical test for anaemia due to haemonchosis have previously been shown to be adequate in differentiating between heavily/less heavily infected sheep, but these properties give no objective guidance for setting the optimum threshold at which anthelmintic treatment should occur. The aim of this work was to use Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of FAMACHA(©) testing by estimating the area under the ROC curve, and to use two-graph ROC curves to decrease subjectivity in selecting treatment thresholds on two farms with contrasting management. Test diagnostic accuracy, and thus discriminating power as determined by the area under the ROC curves, ranged from "moderate to good" on the first farm, and from "moderate to high" on the second farm for haematocrit (the Gold Standard for the test) cut-offs of ≤ 22% and ≤ 19% on both farms respectively. Accuracy of classification between haematocrit cut-offs was not significantly different within farms, but did differ significantly between farms, with test accuracy being highest on the second farm at both haematocrit cut-offs (p<0.05). The results also showed the suitability of the two-graph ROC curve approach for discriminating not only between different levels of accuracy of evaluators, but also to give an indication of the so-called ROC cut point (i.e. the desired threshold level) at which animals should be treated for a given level of risk of loss. The approach appears to have the potential not only to validate the diagnostic accuracy of the test across the complete testing range (i.e. all FAMACHA(©) categories from 1 to 5), but also to compensate for such inaccuracy by allowing objective adjustment of the threshold treatment level according to the output of the two-graph ROC method.
Traditional remedies used for the treatment of cattle wounds and myiasis in Amatola Basin, Eastern Cape Province, South Africa.	A questionnaire survey was carried out to document traditional remedies used in the treatment of cattle wounds and myiasis in Amatola Basin. Eighty-three cattle farmers from nine villages were interviewed. The majority of respondents (67.9%) use traditional remedies for treatment of these conditions. However, 25.9% of them use a combination of traditional remedies with conventional medicines. The survey revealed that 13 medicinal plants belonging to 11 families were used. Aloe ferox, Prunus persica and Phytolacca heptandra were, however, the most commonly used. Leaves are the most frequently used plant part, often prepared as an infusion. Other non-plant remedies used include disinfectants, antiseptics as well as diesel and petrol. Manual removal of maggots from wounds was also practise and treatment is usually continued until the wound heals.
The pathology of tuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a herd of semi-free-ranging springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis).	The first detailed description of the pathology of tuberculosis, caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, in springbok is reported. The springbok were part of a semi-free-ranging herd kept on the grounds of iThemba Laboratory for Accelerator Based Science (LABS) in the Kuils River district of the Western Cape Province, South Africa. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was isolated from three animals out of a total of 33 sampled, with two animals showing tuberculosis lesions. The index case was an adult ewe that showed advanced miliary tuberculosis with marked macroscopic and microscopic lesions in the lungs, pleura and respiratory lymph nodes, and numerous acid-fast bacilli. Six healthy rams were sampled nine months later and a pilot study indicated miliary tuberculosis lesions in one ram, which again were macroscopically most prominent in the lungs, pleura and respiratory lymph nodes. Macroscopic lesions were also noted in the sternal, iliac, prefemoral and retropharyngeal lymph nodes. Microscopy in this animal revealed lesions in the macroscopically affected organs as well as numerous other lymph nodes, and suspected lesions occurred in the testicle and colon. Acid-fast bacilli were scarce to moderate in affected organs. Because of the miliary nature of the lesions in both affected animals, the route of infection could not be established conclusively. The lesions in most affected organs of both animals resembled classical tuberculous granulomas. A main study conducted on healthy animals 19 months after the pilot study failed to find any animal with tuberculosis lesions in the group of 25 sampled, and all were negative for mycobacteria via mycobacterial culture.
Causes of plant diversification in the Cape biodiversity hotspot of South Africa.	The Cape region of South Africa is one of the most remarkable hotspots of biodiversity with a flora comprising more than 9000 plant species, almost 70% of which are endemic, within an area of only ± 90,000 km2. Much of the diversity is due to an exceptionally large contribution of just a few clades that radiated substantially within this region, but little is known about the causes of these radiations. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of plant diversification, using near complete species-level phylogenies of four major Cape clades (more than 470 species): the genus Protea, a tribe of legumes (Podalyrieae) and two speciose genera within the iris family (Babiana and Moraea), representing three of the seven largest plant families in this biodiversity hotspot. Combining these molecular phylogenetic data with ecological and biogeographical information, we tested key hypotheses that have been proposed to explain the radiation of the Cape flora. Our results show that the radiations started throughout the Oligocene and Miocene and that net diversification rates have remained constant through time at globally moderate rates. Furthermore, using sister-species comparisons to assess the impact of different factors on speciation, we identified soil type shifts as the most important cause of speciation in Babiana, Moraea, and Protea, whereas shifts in fire-survival strategy is the most important factor for Podalyrieae. Contrary to previous findings in other groups, such as orchids, pollination syndromes show a high degree of phylogenetic conservatism, including groups with a large number of specialized pollination syndromes like Moraea. We conclude that the combination of complex environmental conditions together with relative climatic stability promoted high speciation and/or low extinction rates as the most likely scenario leading to present-day patterns of hyperdiversity in the Cape.
Predictive performance of eGFR equations in South Africans of African and Indian ancestry compared with ⁹⁹mTc-DTPA imaging.	South African guidelines for early detection and management of chronic kidney disease (CKD) recommend using the Cockcroft-Gault (CG) or Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equations for calculating estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) with the correction factor, 1.212, included for MDRD-eGFR in black patients. We compared eGFR against technetium-99m-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid ((99m)Tc-DTPA) imaging.
Nonmetric sex determination from the distal and posterior humerus in black and white South Africans.	The successful identification of human skeletal remains relies on proven diagnostic techniques for sex determination. This research utilized 608 individuals from South Africa (420 men, 188 women) to conduct a blind nonmetric determination of sex from three features of the distal humerus: olecranon fossa shape, angle of the medial epicondyle, and trochlear extension. A scoring system between males and females was implemented, and the aggregate score of the three features determined the estimated sex of the skeletal element in question. With all features combined, black and white South Africans were categorized successfully as either male or female 75.5% (77% accuracy rate for females, 74% accuracy rate for males). This classification rate is lower than what was found in previous studies, but suggests that characteristics of the distal humerus are still quite valuable when estimating skeletal sex. More research is needed to assess reasons for the differential expression of these traits in different populations and to determine whether the method is nonpopulation specific.
Identification and in vitro anti-esophageal cancer activity of a series of halogenated monoterpenes isolated from the South African seaweeds Plocamium suhrii and Plocamium cornutum.	Five known (1, 2, 4, 6 and 7) halogenated monoterpenes together with 1Z,3R∗,4S∗,5E,7Z)-1-bromo-3,4,8-trichloro-7-(dichloromethyl)-3-methylocta-1,5,7-triene (3) and (3R∗,4S∗)-3,4,6,7-tetrachloro-3,7-dimethyl-octen-1-ene (5) were isolated from the red macroalga Plocamium suhrii and their structures deduced from their spectroscopic data. The seven compounds from P. suhrii together with five related compounds from Plocamium cornutum have been evaluated for their cytotoxic effects on an esophageal cancer cell line (WHCO1). Compounds 1-6 showed greater cytotoxicity in this assay as compared to the known anticancer drug cisplatin.
Timing of serotype 1 pneumococcal disease suggests the need for evaluation of a booster dose.	Protection against serotype 1 could not be demonstrated in two randomized trials of 9 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines. An analysis of the timing of type 1 cases among vaccinees and controls shows that the vaccine failures occurred among cases occurring after the first year of life. Vaccination was given as three doses in infancy with no booster dose. These data suggest that a booster dose given at 9 months of age, or early in the second year of life, should be evaluated for protection against type 1 pneumococcal disease.
Carrion mimicry in a South African orchid: flowers attract a narrow subset of the fly assemblage on animal carcasses.	Although pollination of plants that attract flies by resembling their carrion brood and food sites has been reported in several angiosperm families, there has been very little work done on the level of specificity in carrion mimicry systems and the importance of plant cues in mediating such specialization. Specificity may be expected, as carrion-frequenting flies often exploit different niches, which has been interpreted as avoidance of interspecific competition. Interactions between the orchid Satyrium pumilum and a local assemblage of carrion flies were investigated, and the functional significance of floral traits, especially scent, tested. Pollination success and the incidence of pollinator-mediated self-pollination were measured and these were compared with values for orchids with sexual- and food-deceptive pollination systems.
Preliminary application of a new bolus insulin model for type 1 diabetes.	Previous work derived a theoretically rigorous bolus insulin model. It was shown that the new model predicts insulin response of subjects without diabetes substantially better than the carbohydrate counting method (CHOcm). As most individuals with type 1 diabetes use the CHOcm, this article investigates if the new model can be applied to them.
Relative fitness of alternative male reproductive tactics in a mammal varies between years.	1. In many species, males can use different behavioural tactics to achieve fertilization, so-called alternative reproductive tactics (ARTs). Few field studies have measured fitness consequences of ARTs under varying environmental conditions. 2. Here, we describe fitness consequences of three phenotypically plastic ARTs in the African striped mouse (Rhabdomys pumilio) and show that relative fitness of ARTs differs between years. Each year represents a different generation. 3. For the generation living under high population density, tactics differed in relative fitness in accordance with the theory of conditional strategies, with highly successful territorial breeding males having 10 times higher success than solitary roaming males and 102 times higher success than adult natally philopatric males. 4. For the generation living under intermediate population density, the territorial breeding and roaming tactics yielded similar fitness, which would be in agreement with the theory of mixed strategies. No philopatric males occurred. 5. For the generation living under low population density, roaming was the only tactic used and some roamers had very high fitness. 6. The main prediction of status-dependent selection for conditional strategies is a correlation between fitness and status, often measured as body mass, but we did not find this correlation within tactics when more than one tactic was expressed in the population. 7. Female distribution seems to have an effect on which reproductive tactics male chose: female defence polygyny when females are clumped (interference competition), but a searching tactic when females are dispersed (scramble competition). In contrast to predictions arising from theory on scramble competition, male body mass was important in determining fitness only in the year when females were dispersed, but not in other years. 8. Our results indicate that the differentiation between conditional and mixed strategies is not an absolute one. In many other species, environmental conditions might fluctuate temporally and spatially so that the normally suboptimal tactic yields similar fitness to the (usually) dominant tactic or that only a single tactic prevails. 9. We suggest the term single strategy, independent of current fitness consequences, for systems where tactics are not genetically determined, in contrast to genetically determined alternative strategies.
A prospective, randomized, open-label trial comparing the safety and efficacy of trivalent live attenuated and inactivated influenza vaccines in adults 60 years of age and older.	Although influenza is a major public health concern among adults ≥60 years of age, few large, prospective studies of influenza vaccines have been conducted in this population. The goal of the present study was to directly compare the safety and efficacy of LAIV and TIV in adults ≥60 years of age.
Coping in an HIV/AIDS-dominated context: teachers promoting resilience in schools.	This paper explains how teachers in schools function as resources to buoy resilience in the face of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome-compounded adversities. We draw on participatory reflection and action data from a longitudinal study with teachers (n = 57, 5 males, 52 females) from six schools in three South African provinces. The study tracks the psychosocial support offered by teachers following their participation in the Supportive Teachers, Assets and Resilience project. Verbatim interview transcriptions were thematically analysed and three themes (as well as subthemes and categories) emerged: (i) Teachers use resources to promote resilience in schools [teachers use (a) systems and (b) neighbourhood health and social development services to identify and refer vulnerable cases]; (ii) Teachers form partnerships to promote resilience in schools [teacher partnerships include (a) children and families, (b) community volunteers and (c) community organizations, businesses and government] and (iii) School-based support is offered to vulnerable individuals [by means of (a) vegetable gardens, (b) emotional and health support and (c) capacity development opportunities]. We conclude that teachers can promote resilience in schools by establishing networks with service providers that function across systems to support vulnerable groups. We theorize that the core of systemic networks is relationships, that relationship-driven support networks mitigate the effects of cumulative risk and school-based networks can enable schools to function as resilience-promoting resources.
Challenging Pentecostal moralism: erotic geographies, religion and sexual practices among township youth in Cape Town.	Research on constructions of sexuality in Pentecostalism often struggles with the fact that the research setting is defined ex ante in terms of church communities, which imposes upon ethnographic accounts the same limitations Pentecostal morality imposes upon church members' discourse. Taking young Pentecostals operating in a space that is not explicitly religious as the methodological entrance to the field, this paper explores negotiations over sexuality, intimate relationships and love among Xhosa-speaking township youth. It introduces the notion of erotic geographies to consider how possible influences of religious discourses on sexuality are refracted by alternative cultural orientations and material contexts. Findings suggest that premarital abstinence appears as a highly exceptional ideal for youth. Even among Pentecostal youth, notions of sexuality are largely severed from religiosity and faithfulness and romanticism are dominant ideals. Future research on Pentecostalism and sexuality should be less religious-centric and rooted more firmly in ethnographies of youth sexual cultures.
Species cohesion despite extreme inbreeding in a social spider.	Colonial social spiders experience extreme inbreeding and highly restricted gene flow between colonies; processes that question the genetic cohesion of geographically separated populations and which could imply multiple origins from predecessors with limited gene flow. We analysed species cohesion and the potential for long-distance dispersal in the social spider Stegodyphus dumicola by studying colony structure in eastern South Africa and the cohesion between this population and Namibian populations previously published. Data from both areas were (re)analysed for historic demographic parameters. Eastern South African S. dumicola were closely related to an east Namibian lineage, showing cohesion of S. dumicola relative to its sister species. Colony structure was similar in both areas with mostly monomorphic colonies, but haplotype diversity was much reduced in eastern South Africa. Here, the population structure indicated recent population expansion. By contrast, Namibia constitutes an old population, possibly the geographic origin of the species. Both the comparison of the eastern South African and Namibian lineages and the distribution within eastern South Africa show the potential for long-distance dispersal in few generations via colony propagation.
Sigmoid colon morphology in the population groups of Durban, South Africa, with special reference to sigmoid volvulus.	Sigmoid volvulus demonstrates geographical, racial, and gender variation. This autopsy study was undertaken to establish morphological differences of the sigmoid colon and its mesocolon in which the length and other characteristics were assessed. A total of 590 cadavers were examined (403 African, 91 Indian, and 96 White). Length and height of the sigmoid colon and mesocolon were significantly longer in Africans, and mesocolon root was significantly narrower in Africans. Mesocolic ratio for Africans, Indians, and Whites was 1.1 ± 0.8, 1.8 ± 0.7, and 1.9 ± 1.0, respectively. Africans had a significantly high incidence of redundant sigmoid colon with the long-narrow type and suprapelvic position predominating (P = 0.003); the opposite applied to the classic type. There was no difference in sigmoid colon length, mesocolon height, and width between males and females in all population groups. Among Africans, the long-narrow type was more common in males, and the classic and long-broad types were more common in females. Splaying of teniae coli and thickening of the mesentery were more common in Africans. Tethering of the sigmoid colon to the posterior abdominal wall was less common in Africans compared with other population groups. In conclusion, the sigmoid colon was longer, and the sigmoid mesocolon root was narrower in Africans compared with the other population groups, and the sigmoid colon had a suprapelvic disposition among Africans. In Africans, the sigmoid colon was longer in males with a long-narrow shape. These differences may explain geographical and racial differences in sigmoid volvulus.
Insights into the development of alcoholic chronic pancreatitis at Soweto, South Africa: a controlled cross-sectional study.	We asked why so few working-class Africans of Soweto have chronic pancreatitis (CP) when alcoholism is the norm.
Men's lack of knowledge adds to the cervical cancer burden in South Africa.	The purpose of the study was to determine the level of knowledge regarding cervical cancer among Black men living in Ga-Rankuwa, South Africa. A quantitative survey was conducted. The population consisted of 980 (n = 980) convenience sampled men. Self-reported data were gathered using a structured interview and a pre-tested questionnaire served as data gathering instrument. The study provided evidence that men living in Ga-Rankuwa did not have knowledge of cervical cancer. None of the sample mentioned the HPV as risk factor while some knew that having multiple sexual partners add to a woman's risk. It is, however, doubtful whether the respondents experienced themselves as those with the multiple partners. More than 90% of the sample (n = 963) reported to have had more than one sexual partner in the previous 5 years while less than a quarter indicated that they would have to change their sexual behaviour to prevent cervical cancer. Men add to the cervical cancer burden in South Africa as their knowledge would not enable them to protect their partners from HPV infections, motivate them to be screened or allow them to protect themselves against this dreadful disease.
Duffy-null-associated low neutrophil counts influence HIV-1 susceptibility in high-risk South African black women.	The Duffy-null trait and ethnic netropenia are both highly prevalent in Africa. The influence of pre-seroconversion levels of peripheral blood cell counts (PBCs) on the risk of acquiring human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection among Africans is unknown.
Acute mental health care according to recent mental health legislation Part II. Activity-based costing.	This is the second of three reports on the follow-up review of mental health care at Helen Joseph Hospital (HJH). Objectives for the review were to provide realistic estimates of cost for unit activities and to establish a quality assurance cycle that may facilitate cost centre management.
Teachers' knowledge of emergency management of traumatised teeth in preschools.	Dental trauma remains one of the major oral health problems in childhood and is the cause of much pain and distress. It may occur as a result of a sports mishap, an altercation or a fall while playing inside the school premises. Prompt and appropriate management of traumatised teeth is essential for a good prognosis of an injured tooth.
Outreach education for integration of HIV/AIDS care, antiretroviral treatment, and tuberculosis care in primary care clinics in South Africa: PALSA PLUS pragmatic cluster randomised trial.	To investigate whether PALSA PLUS, an on-site educational outreach programme of non-didactic, case based, iterative clinical education of staff, led by a trainer, can increase access to and comprehensiveness of care for patients with HIV/AIDS.
Associations of cholesterol and glucose with cardiovascular dysfunction in black Africans: the SABPA study.	The aim was to determine whether blood glucose or cholesterol is the more prominent contributor to cardiovascular dysfunction in 101 African men and 99 African women. We measured ambulatory daytime blood pressure (BP), carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), and determined blood glucose and lipids in serum. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) (p = 0.002) and HDL: total cholesterol (HDL:TC) (p ≤ 0.001) were significantly lower, while serum glucose (p ≤ 0.001) was significantly higher in men. In single, partial, and multiple regression analysis, BP correlated positively with blood glucose in men. Furthermore, CIMT (B = -0.50; p = 0.009) correlated negatively with HDL:TC in men. While in women CIMT (B = 0.346; p = 0.015) correlated positively with glucose. In conclusion, subclinical atherosclerosis is significantly related to an unfavorable HDL profile in men, whereas in women, this link is stronger with fasting glucose.
Unexpected morphological and karyological changes in invasive Carpobrotus (Aizoaceae) in Provence (S-E France) compared to native South African species.	Hybridization processes can lead to evolutionary changes, particularly in co-introduced congeneric plant species, such as Carpobrotus spp. which are recognized as invasive in Mediterranean climate regions. Morphological and karyological comparisons have therefore been made between native Carpobrotus edulis and C. acinaciformis in South Africa and their invasive counterparts in Provence (C. edulis and C. aff. acinaciformis). Morphological data exhibited the most significant differences in invasive C. aff. acinaciformis that forms a new phenotypic variant. Unexpected chromosomal restructuring has been highlighted for both taxa in Provence, with in particular a clear decrease in asymmetry, an increase in the intraspecific variability, and an interspecific convergence of karyotypes. These changes suggest a drift that has facilitated various crosses, and has been amplified through hybridization/introgression. Furthermore, several morphological and karyological transgressive characters have been found in the two invasive taxa. These results stress the important role and the rapidity of karyological changes in invasive processes.
Personality and mental health: an investigation of South African police trainees.	The relationship between personality and mental health was investigated in one cohort of police trainees at a South African police academy (1145 police recruits; 648 men, 497 women). Male trainees reported less somatisation, depression, anxiety, and phobic anxiety symptoms and lower harm avoidance as well as higher persistence than female trainees. A cluster analysis based on the personality scores was used to identify three clusters with personality profiles characterized as Vulnerable, Healthy, and Intermediate profiles. Sociodemographic variables and temperament and character domain scores contributed separately and differentially to the explanation of variance in mental health symptom scores. Selection tools should be developed to identify vulnerable individuals in terms of personality characteristics during selection and prior to training, to prevent later problems with stress reactions. Additional training modules focusing on coping skills could possibly reduce vulnerability to stress in some trainees.
Guideline for the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease--2011 update.	To revise the South African Guideline for the Management of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) based on emerging research that has informed updated recommendations.
Intellectual and behavioral functioning in a South african cohort of boys with duchenne muscular dystrophy.	The authors describe the neurocognitive and behavioral phenotype of 16 South African children (ages 4-16 years) with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, compared with 13 controls. The preschool group performed significantly worse than the controls in measures of general developmental performance. The school-age group showed no significant differences in general intellectual abilities. However, our data identified that boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy experience mild cognitive dysfunction across multiple domains, including visual memory, and verbal and nonverbal executive functioning. Parental reports of 11 boys with the disorder revealed high rates of general behavioral problems (54.5%). The cognitive profile of boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy in South Africa is similar to that described elsewhere in the world. Behavioral problems in our cohort were higher than previously reported. This may be partially explained by the poor socioeconomic background of the majority of the cohort.
Dissemination of information on the off-label (unapproved) use of medication: a comparative analysis.	"Off-label" in relation to the use of medication means that a medicine is used in another way or for indications other than those specified in its conditions of registration and reflected in its labelling. The off-label use of medication accounts for an estimated 21 per cent of drug use overall and is an important part of mainstream, legitimate medical practice worldwide. In South Africa, legislation prohibits the dissemination of information regarding the off-label use of medication. There are diverging views on whether pharmaceutical companies should be allowed to distribute scientific publications on off-label uses of approved drugs. Current policy in the United States of America (USA) eases restrictions on the dissemination of information of this nature. The prohibitions existing in South Africa, however, are more comparable with those in European countries. After analysing the different legal positions on the issue, it is submitted that pharmaceutical companies should not be allowed to disseminate information on off-label uses, but that the regulatory authority play an active and leading role in providing the latest, objective medical and scientific information, as well as guidelines on the off-label use of medication. Other related recommendations are also made.
Traditional male circumcision-related fatalities in the Mthatha area of South Africa.	Traditional male circumcision is still widely practised by the Xhosa population throughout South Africa. Male circumcision is carried out mainly during summer and winter seasons. This is a retrospective record review of the male circumcision-related fatalities at Mthatha General Hospital during 2005 and 2006. The purpose of this study is to highlight the problem of circumcision-related deaths in the Mthatha area of South Africa. Twenty-five deaths related to traditional circumcisions were recorded over the period. The common causes of deaths were septicaemia (9 patients; 36%), pneumonia (5; 20%), dehydration (3; 12%), assault (3; 12%), thromboembolism (2; 8%), gangrene (2; 8%) and congestive heart failure (1; 4%). All fatalities were among black Africans with a median age of 17.56 (SD = 2.56) years. In seven deaths (28%) the young men came from the Libode District. The youngest victim was 12 years old. Most of the deaths (13; 52%) occurred in July 2006. The mortality associated with traditional male circumcision in the Mthatha area of South Africa is alarming.
Vacuum-assisted closure of the open abdomen in a resource-limited setting.	We describe our experience of developing a modified vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) dressing for open abdomens.
Chasing the ubiquitous RET proto-oncogene in South African MEN2 families--implications for the surgeon.	The RET proto-oncogene (REarranged during Transfection; RET) plays an important role in the causation of many thyroid tumours. Germline RET proto-oncogene missense mutations have been clearly linked to medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) and the inherited cancer syndrome multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN2A, MEN2B).
Stigma by association: the effects of caring for HIV/AIDS patients in South Africa.	The shortage of healthcare workers caring for South Africa's 5-6 million persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) calls for inquiry into workers' challenges and experiences. This exploratory study examines one little-studied challenge: stigmatisation of HIV/AIDS healthcare workers based on their association with PLHA. The authors tested the hypotheses that HIV/AIDS healthcare workers experience stigmatisation due to their association with PLHA, and that such association stigma is correlated with thoughts of leaving the HIV/AIDS field. A sample of 100 participants who provided direct care to PLHA was recruited from a variety of public and private HIV/AIDS care centres in Eastern Cape province, South Africa. Participants attended one of 12 focus groups held between June and August, 2008. They completed a 17-item questionnaire and discussed each item. Findings exhibit the presence of an adverse differentiation and labelling of HIV/AIDS healthcare workers, leading to status loss and discrimination, creating an impetus for HIV/AIDS healthcare workers to leave AIDS work altogether. A significant relationship (χ(2) (TREND) = 3.86, df = 1, P = 0.049) was found between contemplation of leaving AIDS work and perception of others' responses to their work with PLHA. In addition, associations emerged between type of AIDS worker and contemplation of working in AIDS care outside of South Africa (Kruskal-Wallis χ(2) = 6.96, df = 2, P = 0.031), with doctors and nurses reporting higher frequency of contemplating leaving South Africa to work with PLHA elsewhere (Mann-Whitney z = -2.53, P = 0.011). The study lays the foundation for additional research on the effects of association stigma. In turn, increased efforts to retain and recruit new HIV/AIDS healthcare workers will expand the pool of healthcare personnel to PLHA.
Survival function and protein malnutrition in burns patients at a rural hospital in Africa.	The aim of this study was to estimate the incidence of acute malnutrition and to identify predictors of case fatality among burn patients in the poorest South African province, Eastern Cape.
Pilot study to develop a rapid assessment of tuberculosis care-seeking and adherence practices in rural Limpopo Province, South Africa.	Studies of factors influencing tuberculosis (TB) care-seeking and treatment adherence in high TB/HIV co-burden African countries have typically surveyed urban patients' sociodemographic characteristics. To understand community perceptions and guide rapid assessment interviews, we interviewed key informants (nurses, tribal leaders, n = 9) and local researchers (n = 3) in poor, rural areas of South Africa. HIV-related stigma and misperceptions about TB causes and symptoms were cited as barriers. Key informants said older people preferred traditional healers; local researchers heard a preference for "western" care and suggested supporting clinic staff travel to remote villages with health education and diagnostic services. Key informants said not understanding the consequences of incomplete treatment and reluctance to relinquish disability grants decreased adherence. All reported that nonfamily DOTS supporters provided invaluable support. Rapid assessment should include drop-outs, re-treated, and co-infected patients and ask questions examining origins of misperceptions, stigma of testing, and pre-test messages to improve community perceptions about TB care-seeking and treatment adherence.
The experiences of nurses in caring for circumcised initiates admitted to hospital with complications.	The circumcision of males is a ritual that is performed in the veld, out of the public eye. Traditionally, it has to be attended by circumcised men only; no one is allowed to see the initiates before they are officially released or discharged. In recent times, initiates have been admitted to hospitals following complications during the circumcision process. In the hospitals, they are cared for by nurses. Hospitalisation of initiates creates problems for the elders who accompany the initiates as well as the nurses who are expected to care for them. The purpose of the study was to explore and describe the experiences of nurses who care for initiates who have been admitted into hospital with medical and physical complications. A qualitative approach was adopted for this study, and the data was collected by means of unstructured interviews. A purposively selected sample of nurses of different categories from a rural hospital in the Nkangala district in Mpumalanga Province, South Africa, participated in the study. The data was analysed, and five major categories were developed. The major categories were: conflicting cultural practices, emotions, common complications, ethical issues and possible solutions. Based on the findings of the study, it is recommended that traditional circumcision should be regulated to avoid complications that lead to the admission of initiates into hospitals. Also, a collaborative partnership should be established between the health institutions and the traditional surgeons and healers in caring for initiates.
Analysis of the Fusarium graminearum species complex from wheat, barley and maize in South Africa provides evidence of species-specific differences in host preference.	Species identity and trichothecene toxin potential of 560 members of the Fusarium graminearum species complex (FGSC) collected from diseased wheat, barley and maize in South Africa was determined using a microsphere-based multilocus genotyping assay. Although three trichothecene types (3-ADON, 15-ADON and NIV) were represented among these isolates, strains with the 15-ADON type predominated on all three hosts. A significant difference, however, was identified in the composition of FGSC pathogens associated with Gibberella ear rot (GER) of maize as compared to Fusarium head blight (FHB) of wheat or barley (P<0.001). F. graminearum accounted for more than 85% of the FGSC isolates associated with FHB of wheat and barley (N=425), and was also the dominant species among isolates from maize roots (N=35). However, with the exception of a single isolate identified as an interspecific hybrid between Fusariumboothii and F. graminearum, GER of maize (N=100) was exclusively associated with F. boothii. The predominance of F. graminearum among FHB isolates, and the near exclusivity of F. boothii among GER isolates, was observed across all cultivars, collection dates, and provinces sampled. Because these results suggest a difference in host preference among species of the FGSC, we hypothesize that F. graminearum may be less well adapted to infect maize ears than other members of the FGSC.
Novel CYP2C9 and VKORC1 gene variants associated with warfarin dosage variability in the South African black population.	Warfarin is a widely used therapeutic agent for long-term oral anticoagulation worldwide. Its administration is challenging owing to its narrow therapeutic range and serious adverse effects. Several environmental factors and numerous genes, of which CYP2C9 and VKORC1 are the most important, have been associated with interindividual dosage variability. Many studies have been conducted to understand warfarin dosage variability better, the majority of which have been focused on the Caucasian and African-American populations. Very little information is available regarding genetic influences of warfarin dosage variability in the South African black population.
Identification of deletion mutant respiratory syncytial virus strains lacking most of the G protein in immunocompromised children with pneumonia in South Africa.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) G protein deletion mutants replicate effectively in vitro but have not been detected in nature. Subtyping of RSV strains in hospitalized children in South Africa identified G protein PCR amplicons significantly reduced in size in 2 out of 209 clinical specimens screened over 4 years. Sequence analysis revealed subtype B strains lacking nearly the entire G protein ectodomain in one HIV-positive and one HIV-exposed child hospitalized with pneumonia. The association of clinical strains lacking most of the G protein with lower respiratory tract infection in immunocompromised children may have implications for RSV vaccine development.
Knowledge of students attending a high school in Pretoria, South Africa, on diet, nutrition and exercise.	The objective of this study was to ascertain the knowledge of students on the composition of a healthy diet, daily nutritional requirements and the importance of regular exercise.
The cool, the bad, the ugly, and the powerful: identity struggles in schoolboy peer culture.	Drawing upon a one-year-long ethnography of boys' constructions of their gender and sexual identities in one South African high school, this paper seeks to empirically explore and theorise how 58 grade 10 and grade 11 working-class boys create and seek out spaces among their male peers from which to cultivate their masculinities through heterosexual discourses, including being 'at risk' of getting AIDS. In this study, boys' daily struggles of trying to straddle the divide between hypersexual versus homosexual/effeminate versions of masculinity both subverted and reinforced hegemonic gender/sexual relations in the school context. Being caught up in this restrictive grip of heteronormativity meant that there were few spaces in male peer culture to resist hegemonic masculinity. The 'responsible male/controlled' position is indicative of one such space in which boys attempted to resist forms of hyper-sexuality. While this position cannot really be viewed as progressive, it nevertheless allowed boys to re-position themselves as moral agents through an assertion of control over their sexuality. Given the presence of these identity struggles, this paper, in general, suggests that interventions with boys need to cautiously explore these tensions/contradictions in identity making as opportunities to cultivate more gender sensitive and less violent discourses on masculinity.
Socioeconomic status, marital status and childlessness in men and women: an analysis of census data from six countries.	This study compares the effects of two distinct forms of human capital - income and education - on marital status and childlessness separately by sex in six different countries. Nearly 10 million individual records on individuals aged 16 to 50 were used from censuses from Brazil, Mexico, Panama, South Africa, USA and Venezuela dating from 2000 or later, to analyse the relationship between education, income and marital status and childlessness in men and women. Regarding income, the findings for both outcome variables are strongly consistent across all six countries. Highest-income males and lower-income females have the highest proportion of ever-married and the lowest proportion of childlessness (using a proxy for childlessness: own children in the household or not). There is no corresponding consistency of findings as regards education either between the sexes or among the countries. To conclude, a lower percentage of low-income men are selected by females, because for women male status and resources provided by men are important criteria in mate selection. Therefore a higher proportion of low-income men remain unmarried and childless. Thus selection seems to play a role in modern societies.
In vitro antioxidant activity of extracts from the leaves of Felicia muricata thunb. An underutilized medicinal plant in the Eastern Cape Province, South Africa.	Felicia muricata is a medicinal plant used for the management of different human and livestock diseases in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa. The antioxidant potential of the leaves from this herb was investigated using its water, methanol, acetone and ethanol extracts. All the extracts were rich in phenols, proanthocyanidins and flavonols but low in flavonoids. The water extract exhibited low DPPH scavenging activity while the methanol, acetone and ethanol extracts showed higher activities. Again all the extracts showed high ABTS scavenging activity with a correlation between total phenolic content (R2 = 0.9965), DPPH (R2 = 0.982) and ABTS (R2 = 0.927). Traditionally, however, plant extracts are prepared with water as infusions, decoction and poultice. Our results have shown that both the water and ethanol extracts from Felicia muricata displayed strong antioxidant activity. Therefore, it would seem likely that both solvents were able to extract those compounds which are responsible for the antioxidant activity of F. muricata.
Prediction of metal-adsorption behaviour in the remediation of water contamination using indigenous microorganisms.	In recent years, the adsorption of heavy metal cations onto bacterial surfaces has been studied extensively. This paper reports the findings of a study conducted on the heavy metal ions found in mine effluents from a mining plant where Co(2+) and Ni(2+) bearing minerals are processed. Heavy metal ions are reported to be occasionally present in these mine effluents, and the proposed microbial sorption technique offers an acceptable solution for the removal of these heavy metals. The sorption affinity of microorganisms for metal ions can be used to select a suitable microbial sorbent for any particular bioremediation process. Interactions of heavy metal ions (Co(2+) and Ni(2+)) and light metal ions (Mg(2+) and Ca(2+)) with indigenous microbial cells (Brevundimonas spp., Bacillaceae bacteria and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) were investigated using the Langmuir adsorption isotherm, pseudo second-order reaction kinetics model and a binary-metal system. Equilibrium constants and adsorption capacities derived from these models allowed delineation of the effect of binding affinity and metal concentration ratios on the overall adsorption behaviour of microbial sorbents, as well as prediction of performance in bioremediation systems. Although microbial sorbents used in this study preferentially bind to heavy metal ions, it was observed that higher concentrations (>90 mg/ℓ) of light metal ions in multi-metal solutions inhibit the adsorption of heavy metal ions to the bacterial cell wall. However, the microbial sorbents reduced Ni(2+) levels in the mine-water used (93-100% Ni(2+) removal) to below the maximum acceptable limit of 350 μg/ℓ, established by the South African Bureau of Standards. Competition among metal ions for binding sites on the biomaterial surface can occur during the bioremediation process, but microbial sorption affinity for heavy metal ions can enhance their remediation in dilute (<5 mg/ℓ heavy metal) wastewaters.
Fatal spotted fever group rickettsiosis due to Rickettsia conorii conorii mimicking a hemorrhagic viral fever in a South African traveler in Brazil.	The authors present a fatal case of spotted fever group rickettsiosis (SFGR) caused by Rickettsia conorii conorii mimicking a hemorrhagic viral fever in a South African male on a business trip in Brazil. SFGR was confirmed by molecular and immunohistochemical analyses.
Addressing social responsibility in medical education: the African way.	Indigenous sub-Saharan societies have, over the millennia, lived and socialised within the unwritten 'rules' of the 'Ubuntu' or similar philosophies that emphasises holistic 'humanness', and which is a form of 'social responsibility'. This article looks into some relevant social responsibility aspects of medical education in the South African context, with particular emphasis on how these aspects have been addressed. Apartheid was, by its very nature, incompatible with social responsibility for the majority of South Africans, but one medical school that was a non-complicit product of apartheid succeeded in fulfilling a socially responsible mission. Thus, this article implicitly identifies what South Africa, Africa and the global Health Professions Education community could learn from these trail-blazing experiences.
Efficacy of a novel topical combination of fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene for treatment and control of induced infestations of brown dog ticks (Rhipicephalus sanguineus) on dogs.	Four laboratory studies were conducted to demonstrate that a single topical dose of a novel spot-on combination containing fipronil, amitraz and (S)-methoprene (CERTIFECT™, Merial Limited, GA, USA) is efficacious against the brown dog tick, Rhipicephalus sanguineus. In each study, 6-8 male and 6-8 female purpose-bred, laboratory mongrels, terrier cross or Beagles were randomly assigned to one of two study groups (treated and untreated), based on pre-treatment parasite counts. Starting on the day before treatment, each dog was infested weekly with 50 ticks. Ticks were thumb counted at various time points after treatment and weekly infestations starting as early as 6h and continued at 12, 18 and 24h depending on the study. Ticks were removed and counted at 48 h after treatment and weekly infestations. CERTIFECT provided rapid and excellent control of pre-existing and newly acquired infestations of R. sanguineus with efficacy as high as 93% within the first 12h after a single topical treatment. Excellent control (>96%) of R. sanguineus as early as 18 h, following post treatment infestations was maintained for at least 35 days.
Diagnostic accuracy of clinical signs used to identify electrolyte disturbances in children with diarrhoea.	No studies have assessed the diagnostic accuracy of clinical signs of electrolyte disturbances in children with dehydrating diarrhoea.
The amended legislation on procedure-related deaths--an advance in patient care?	Deaths during or after a surgical procedure may be considered medico-legal and subjected to medico-legal autopsy and inquest. We define death in medical terms and discuss the implications of the provisions of the Amended Health Professions Act of 1974 and its recent amendment. Problems with the old and new definitions of such deaths and whether the amendment provides additional patient protection for the patient are considered. We challenge the South African law-makers to review the all-inclusive terminology in relation to such deaths.
Poor long-term outcomes for cryptococcal meningitis in rural South Africa.	To explore linkage to and retention in HIV care after an episode of cryptococcal meningitis (CM) in rural South Africa. Design. A retrospective case series of adult individuals (> or = 16 years old) with laboratory-confirmed CM from January - December 2007 at Hlabisa Hospital--a district hospital in northern KwaZulu-Natal.
Loss to follow-up in a community clinic in South Africa--roles of gender, pregnancy and CD4 count.	Faith-based organisations have expanded antiretroviral therapy (ART) in community clinics across South Africa. Loss to follow-up (LTFU), however, limits the potential individual and population treatment benefits and optimal care.
Prostate cancer among different racial groups in the Western Cape: presenting features and management.	We aimed to compare the presenting features and management of prostate cancer among different racial groups.
Preliminary phytochemical screening and in vitro anti-helicobacter pylori activity of extracts of the stem bark of Bridelia micrantha (Hochst., Baill., Euphorbiaceae).	Helicobacter pylori is a major risk factor for gastritis, ulcers and gastric cancer. This study was aimed to determine the antimicrobial activity of the stem bark of Bridelia. micrantha on H. pylori isolated in South Africa. Extracts and clarithromycin were tested against 31 clinical strains, including a standard strain (NCTC 11638) of H. pylori, by measuring the diameters of the corresponding inhibition zones, followed by determination of the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) (using metronidazole, and amoxicillin as control antibiotics) and the rate of kill. Preliminary phytochemical screening was also done. Inhibition zone diameters which ranged from 0-23 mm were observed for all five of the extracts and 0-35 mm for clarithromycin. Marked susceptibility of strains (100%) was noted for the acetone extract (P < 0.05), followed by ethyl acetate extract (93.5%). The MIC₅₀ values ranged from 0.0048 to 0.156 mg/mL for the ethyl acetate extract and 0.0048 to 0.313 mg/mL for the acetone extract. The MIC₉₀ values ranged from 0.0048 to 2.5 mg/mL for the ethyl acetate extract and 0.078 to > 0.625 mg/mL for the acetone extract, respectively. Insignificant statistical difference in potency was observed when comparing the crude ethyl acetate extract to metronidazole and amoxicillin (P > 0.05). Complete killing of strain PE430C by the ethyl acetate extract was observed at 0.1 mg/mL (2 × MIC) and 0.2 mg/mL (4 × MIC) at 66 and 72 h. For strain PE369C, 100% killing was observed at 0.1 mg/mL (2 × MIC) in 66 and 72 h. The ethyl acetate extract could thus be a potential source of lead molecules for the design of new anti-Helicobacter pylori therapies as this study further confirmed the presence of phytochemicals including alkaloids, flavonoids, steroids, tannins and saponins.
Aluminium phosphide (tank pill) poisoning in the Transkei region of South Africa: a case report.	About half a million people die each year as a result of various kinds of poisoning. The incidence of pesticide poisoning, which is high in developing countries, has doubled over the past 10 years. Aluminium phosphide is a deadly fumigant pesticide. A 21-year-old man committed suicide by ingesting aluminium phosphide, which he had available in his home. He had been charged with rape, and was to appear in court. Soon after ingestion, he told his grandmother about the suicide attempt. He was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was dead within an hour of arriving. The mechanism of action, symptoms and signs will be discussed in this report. The purpose of this case report is to highlight the problem of aluminium phosphide poisoning in the Transkei region of South Africa.
Cutaneous Mycobacterium kansasii infection in a patient with AIDS post initiation of antiretroviral therapy.	The HIV pandemic has resulted in unique clinical presentations in patients, and their diagnosis and management pose challenges to physicians in the developing world. Due to limited resources and difficulties in laboratory diagnosis, most physicians treat according to the most likely etiological agent that might be causing the disease. In South Africa, when acid-fast bacilli are detected, anti-tuberculous treatment is commenced. However, it must be realized that not all acid-fast bacilli are Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and that there are nontuberculous mycobacteria that can cause infections. Clinicians should work closely with the medical microbiologist when unique cases arise to ensure optimal microbial detection, identification, and patient management. This paper describes a very rare case of self-resolving cutaneous Mycobacterium kansasii infection following the initiation of antiretroviral therapy and potentially associated with immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
Fatal neurologic disease and abortion in mare infected with lineage 1 West Nile virus, South Africa.	In 2010, lineage 1 West Nile virus was detected in South Africa in the brain of a pregnant mare that succumbed to neurologic disease and in her aborted fetus, suggesting an association with abortion in horses. All West Nile virus strains previously detected in horses and humans in South Africa were lineage 2.
"I have lost sexual interest …"-challenges of balancing personal and professional lives among nurses caring for people living with HIV and AIDS in Limpopo, South Africa.	As part of a capacity-building research project, this study examined the extent to which caring for people living with HIV and AIDS (PLWHA) affects both professional and personal relationships of nurse caregivers. The data were collected using focus group interviews with 17 female nurses at two Limpopo hospitals. The PEN-3 cultural model was used as a theoretical framework for exploring how nurses balance job demands with family responsibilities. The results generated three themes: the multiple identities nurses experience within their family and professional lives; nurse attitudes related to patient gender; and stigma experienced by nurses who care for PLWHA. Caring for PLWHA influences nurses' personal and professional lives by interfering with their perceptions and emotions as they relate to spousal, parental, and gendered relationships. The findings offer insight into factors requiring consideration when designing interventions to help nurses cope with the stress associated with caring for PLWHA while simultaneously managing family responsibilities.
Molecular analysis of ceruloplasmin in a South African cohort presenting with oesophageal cancer.	Oesophageal cancer (OC) is a disease characterized by the development of malignant tumors in the epithelial cells lining the oesophagus. It demonstrates marked ethnic variation, with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) being more prevalent in the Black population and adenocarcinoma (ADC) occurring more often in Caucasians. The etiology of this complex disease has been attributed to a variety of factors, including an excess of iron (resulting in increased tumourigenesis), oesophageal injury and inflammation (due in part to Barrett's oesophagus and smoking among others). The aim of this study was to determine if genetic variations identified in the ceruloplasmin (CP) gene (implicated in iron homeostasis) contribute to OC pathogenesis or susceptibility. The study cohort consisted of 96 unrelated OC patients from the Black Xhosa-speaking South African population and 88 population-matched control individuals. The promoter and coding regions of the CP gene were analyzed for DNA sequence variation using heteroduplex single-strand conformation polymorphism (HEX-SSCP) analysis, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and semi-automated bidirectional DNA sequencing analysis. Fourteen previously described and four novel variants were identified. Statistically significant associations were revealed for two of the novel variants with OC in this study and could, therefore, potentially contribute to disease susceptibility. In silico analysis of the region of the promoter spanning the identified variants sought to identify putative transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) that could possibly regulate the expression of CP. To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine CP with respect to OC in the Black South African population.
Parents' anxieties about the risk of HIV/AIDS for their Deaf and hard of hearing adolescents in South Africa: a qualitative study.	Adolescents who are Deaf or hard of hearing may be vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. Adolescents' open communication with parents encourages positive sexuality. The relationship between the Deaf adolescent and their parent could be obstructed by communication difficulties. This article explores parents' anxieties about HIV risk. We interviewed nine parents of Deaf adolescents in South Africa. We explored their fears of the risk of HIV/AIDS for their children. Participants believed that their children were at risk of HIV infection. Although they did communicate with their children about sexuality and HIV/AIDS, some experienced communication difficulties. Communicative relationships between these adolescents and their parents should be encouraged.
The feminization of psychology: data from South Africa.	In many countries, women outnumber men in psychology, both as students and as professionals. Much of this information is drawn from Europe and the USA, and the information available about the situation in developing countries is a lot less detailed. The steady increase in the presence of women in psychology in South Africa is examined, via access to two large national databases and telephone interviews. These sources are the most reliable available, and are comprehensive enough to give a very good snapshot of women in psychology in this country over the last 12 years. The data indicate that psychology as a profession in South Africa is dominated by women. Although the applied practical aspects of the discipline attract women disproportionally, women are also over-represented in research psychology and academia (except at the professorial level). The racial composition of the profession remains skewed, with white psychologists in the majority. Although the data in this regard are incomplete, approximately 5% of registered psychologists are black. An examination of student enrolments suggests that this situation will continue in future, as women (and white students) enrol in much greater numbers for both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. In 2002, 74% of psychology majors were women, and 78% of all Master's degrees in psychology were awarded to women. Thus it would appear that the feminization of psychology in this country is further advanced than in Europe and the USA. It is not a question of men abandoning the profession, but rather that women entered the profession at a much higher rate in recent years.
The psychosocial determinants of the intention to reduce the number of sexual partners among recent traditionally initiated and circumcized men in the Eastern Cape Province, South Africa.	This study focuses on the factors associated with the intention to reduce the number of sexual partners. An individual face-to-face interview was used to collect data amongst 2337 traditionally initiated and circumcized men in the rural areas of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. About 55.5% reported having a main sexual partner and of those 41.4% indicated having other sexual partners. The strongest association with intention was found for self-efficacy towards having one sexual partner, which accounted for almost 49% of the variance. These findings provide specific information for the development of a focused cultural sensitive STI/HIV prevention programme in sexually active young men, which can be integrated into the initiation and health education practices.
Race, gender and the impossibilities of care.	Informal care work is indispensible to healthcare but is often invisible. Using my own experience with carers who looked after my dying mother, I explore the submerged racial and gender politics of care work, issues which have a particular relevance in South Africa. I raise the question of whether it is possible for powerful professionals like myself to engage with care workers in ways which do not reproduce patterns of exclusion and exploitation. Telling of and thinking about 'private' stories which are intimate and visceral experiences may help us to think more clearly and more visibly about the politics of care work.
Access to healthcare services as a human right.	The existence of a right to healthcare or, at least, access to healthcare services, is a right that exists in terms of the Bill of Rights in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996. This article explores the scope and ambit of the right and its meaning within the context of both of constitutional directives, the duties imposed upon the State to progressively realise the right for its citizens and the practical implications of the right with reference to existing healthcare infrastructure in the Republic of South Africa.
Inadequate treatment of pain: time for the South African courts to redress this human rights violation?	In the case of 90 per cent of patients, pain can be relieved adequately, but in 80 per cent of these cases this is not done, despite the fact that effective pain medication is available. More than three decades ago, the under-treatment of pain had already been identified as a major global problem. Human dignity requires that treatable pain be relieved. Although attempts have been made to address this unnecessary human suffering, there are a number of reasons why little progress has been made. Fear of the regulatory authority has been mentioned, but in South Africa this is not the case. A lack of knowledge and archaic views have resulted in the standard practice of mismanaging pain. Diverging views on whether the health care system's failure to treat patient pain adequately needs corrective action by the judiciary will be discussed. An argument will be made out that the courts should reconsider the standard practice and the question of what is reasonable in regard to pain treatment. The "failure to treat pain adequately" should be recognised as a separate and independent form of medical negligence. Other possible causes of action will also be discussed. Improvements in pain management require simultaneous initiatives in medicine, law and ethics.
On the relevance of using Bayesian belief networks in wireless sensor networks situation recognition.	Achieving situation recognition in ubiquitous sensor networks (USNs) is an important issue that has been poorly addressed by both the research and practitioner communities. This paper describes some steps taken to address this issue by effecting USN middleware intelligence using an emerging situation awareness (ESA) technology. We propose a situation recognition framework where temporal probabilistic reasoning is used to derive and emerge situation awareness in ubiquitous sensor networks. Using data collected from an outdoor environment monitoring in the city of Cape Town, we illustrate the use of the ESA technology in terms of sensor system operating conditions and environmental situation recognition.
Inculcating safe sex attitudes in South African adolescents: a directive for the government's anti-HIV/AIDS policy.	South Africa has one of the highest rates of HIV/AIDS in the world. Much blame for this has been laid on the apathy of the South African government and the cultural traits of South Africans. AIDS prevention research calls for early childhood education to raise awareness of the causes, dangers, and prevention of HIV/AIDS. This study involved surveys among a select sample of South African adolescents to determine their sexual attitudes before and after a cognitive-behavioral intervention. Overall, the results did not make a significant difference in their attitudes, suggesting pre-adolescent sex education might prove to be a more useful tool in anti-HIV/AIDS education. Risky sexual behavior, under the influence of alcohol, also serves as a warning to educate young consumers of alcohol.
Ecophysiological analysis of moss-dominated biological soil crusts and their separate components from the Succulent Karoo, South Africa.	Biological soil crusts, formed by an association of soil particles with cyanobacteria, lichens, mosses, fungi and bacteria in varying proportions, live in or directly on top of the uppermost soil layer. To evaluate their role in the global carbon cycle, gas exchange measurements were conducted under controlled conditions. Moss-dominated soil crusts were first analyzed as moss tufts on soil, then the mosses were removed and the soil was analyzed separately to obtain the physiological response of both soil and individual moss stems. Net photosynthetic response of moss stems and complete crusts was decreased by insufficient and excess amounts of water, resulting in optimum curves with similar ranges of optimum water content. Light saturation of both sample types occurred at high irradiance, but moss stems reached light compensation and saturation points at lower values. Optimum temperatures of moss stems ranged between 22 and 27°C, whereas complete crusts reached similar net photosynthesis between 7 and 27°C. Under optimum conditions, moss stems reached higher net photosynthesis (4.0 vs. 2.8 μmol m(-2) s(-1)) and lower dark respiration rates (-0.9 vs. -2.4 μmol m(-2) s(-1)). Respiration rates of soil without moss stems were high (up to -2.0 μmol m(-2) s(-1)) causing by far lower absolute values of NP/DR ratios of soil crusts as compared to moss stems. In carbon balances, it therefore has to be clearly distinguished between measurements of soil crust components versus complete crusts. High rates of soil respiration may be caused by leaching of mosses, creating high-nutrient microsites that favor microorganism growth.
Working memory in ADHD: a comparison of British and South African children.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the following issues: (a) Do students with ADHD have a pervasive pattern of impaired working memory skills across verbal and visuospatial domains? (b) is there evidence for a similar pattern of deficits across U.K. and South African students? and (c) which working memory tasks can effectively identify students with ADHD from TD peers?
Introduction of concept of cost centre management in a public hospital in South Africa.	Information on hospital unit costs is valuable to health policy makers, managers, and researchers. Its importance is recognised internationally by the World Health Organization (WHO) and nationally by the South African Department of Health. Although some projects had attempted to introduce this concept in South Africa, none of them became sustainable.
Coverage of the prevention of mother-to-child transmission program in the Western Cape, South Africa using cord blood surveillance.	The effectiveness of prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) programs depends on the successful coverage of a series of interventions through pregnancy, intrapartum, and postpartum. Routine monitoring systems based on service data and limited to women on the PMTCT program may overestimate intervention coverage at multiple points along this cascade.
Preservation HIV-1-specific IFNγ+ CD4+ T-cell responses in breakthrough infections after exposure to tenofovir gel in the CAPRISA 004 microbicide trial.	The Centre for the AIDS Program of Research in South Africa 004 trial demonstrated reduction of sexual HIV-1 acquisition in women using a vaginal microbicide containing tenofovir. A better understanding of the consequences of antiretroviral-containing microbicides for immune responses in individuals with intercurrent HIV-1 infection is needed for future trials combining the use of microbicides with HIV-1 vaccines. Investigation of immune responses in women who acquired HIV-1 although using tenofovir gel showed significantly higher (P = 0.01) Gag-specific IFNγ+ CD4+ T-cell responses. The use of tenofovir-containing gel around the time of infection can modulate HIV-1 immunity, and these immunological changes need to be considered in future trials combining vaccines and microbicides.
A randomized controlled trial of highly active antiretroviral therapy versus highly active antiretroviral therapy and chemotherapy in therapy-naive patients with HIV-associated Kaposi sarcoma in South Africa.	The optimal approach to HIV-associated Kaposi sarcoma (HIV-KS) in sub-Saharan Africa is unknown. With large-scale rollout of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in South Africa, we hypothesized that survival in HIV-KS would improve and administration of chemotherapy in addition to HAART would be feasible and improve KS-specific outcomes.
Effects of a reduced dose of stavudine on the incidence and severity of peripheral neuropathy in HIV-infected adults in South Africa.	Although recent World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines recommend withdrawing stavudine (d4T) from first-line antiretroviral therapy (ART), it remains commonly used in resource-limited settings. In 2006, WHO recommended decreasing the dose of d4T from 40 mg to 30 mg to mitigate toxicities. We compared the incidence and severity of peripheral neuropathy by d4T dose in a retrospective cohort study.
The antimicrobial activities of processed Nigerian and South African black tea.	The antibacterial activity of processed Nigerian Lipton Tea and South African 5 Roses Tea, extracted using distilled water, chloroform and 70% ethanol were determined against nine (9) enteropathogenic bacteria which includes; Bacillus subtilis, Proteus sp, Enterobacter sp., Klebsiella pneumoniae, Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi, Salmonella paratyphi A, Salmonella arizona and Staphylococcus aureus. The 2 tea bags, Nigerian Lipton tea bag and the South African 5 Roses tea bag were extracted through Solvent extraction method using 3 extraction solvents; Distilled water, Chloroform and 70% Ethanol and then inoculated onto the Mueller-Hinton agar plates containing the standard isolates at 6 different points on each plate. The zones of inhibition of the bacterial isolates produced by each of these tea - extracts were determined while meaningful antibacterial activities against five (5) of the standard isolates; Enterobacter sp., K. pneumoniae, S. paratyphi A, B. subtilis and S. aureus were observed. Lipton tea water-extract was a more effective antibacterial agent than water-extract of 5 Roses tea. While the 70% ethanol-extract of 5 Roses tea had the greatest antibacterial activity of all the different tea-extract used for the study, the chloroform-extracts of the tea bags had no antimicrobial effect on all the test organisms used.
Ethics review of health research on human participants in South Africa.	In terms of South African legislation, all health research on human participants must be submitted to an accredited research ethics committee for independent ethics review. Health research covers a broad spectrum of research, including clinical trials. This article sets out the ethical-legal framework for the functioning and composition of such committees. It also deals with the newly created National Health Research Ethics Council, which registers and audits health research ethics committees. Special attention is given to the conduct of clinical trials. In conclusion, it is submitted that the National Health Act, the Draft Regulations Relating to Research on Human Subjects, and two sets of ethical guidelines adopted by the Department of Health provide a much needed and coherent ethical-legal framework for research in South Africa.
Changes in dietary habits and eating practices in adolescents living in urban South Africa: the birth to twenty cohort.	To assess changes in the dietary habits and eating practices of a longitudinal cohort of adolescents over a 5-y period living in Soweto and Johannesburg.
Inbreeding avoidance mechanisms: dispersal dynamics in cooperatively breeding southern pied babblers.	1. Breeding with kin can reduce individual fitness through the deleterious effects of inbreeding depression. Inbreeding avoidance mechanisms are expected to have developed in most species, and especially in cooperatively breeding species where individuals may delay dispersal until long after sexual maturity. Such potential mechanisms include sex-biased dispersal and avoidance of kin known through associative learning. 2. The investigation of inbreeding avoidance through dispersal dynamics can be enhanced by combining fine-scale population genetic structure data with detailed behavioural observations of wild populations. 3. We investigate possible inbreeding avoidance in a wild population of cooperatively breeding southern pied babblers (Turdoides bicolor). A combination of genetic, geographic and observational data is used to examine fine-scale genetic structure, dispersal (including sex-biased dispersal) and inheritance of dominance in cooperatively breeding groups. 4. Unusually, sex-bias in dispersal distance does not occur. Rather, individuals appear to avoid inbreeding through two routes. First, through dispersal itself: although both males and females disperse locally, they move outside the range within which genetically similar individuals are usually found, going twice as far from natal groups as from non-natal groups. Second, through avoidance of familiar group members as mates: individuals inherit a dominant position in the natal group only when an unrelated breeding partner is present. 5. This study uses spatial genetic analyses to investigate inbreeding avoidance mechanisms in a cooperative breeder and shows that individuals of both sexes can avoid inbreeding through a dispersal distance mechanism. While it appears that dispersal allows most individuals to move beyond the range of closely related kin, matings may still occur between distant kin. Nevertheless, any costs of breeding with a distant relative may be outweighed by the benefits of local dispersal and the immense fitness gains available from attaining a breeding position.
Investing in African research training institutions creates sustainable capacity for Africa: the case of the University of the Witwatersrand School of Public Health masters programme in epidemiology and biostatistics.	Improving health in Africa is a high priority internationally. Inadequate research capacity to produce local, relevant research has been identified as a limitation to improved population health. Increasing attention is being paid to the higher education sector in Africa as a method of addressing this; evidence that such investment is having the desired impact is required. A 1998 3-year investment by the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR) in research training at the School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa was reviewed to assess its' impact.
Safety of catheter-delivered plasmin in patients with acute lower extremity arterial or bypass graft occlusion: phase I results.	Current treatment of acute peripheral artery or bypass graft occlusion utilizes catheter-directed thrombolysis of a plasminogen activator (PA). Plasmin is a direct-acting thrombolytic with a striking safety advantage over PA in preclinical models.
The reliability of point-of-care CD4 testing in identifying HIV-infected pregnant women eligible for antiretroviral therapy.	Point-of-care (POC) CD4 testing may play an important role in identifying individuals who require antiretroviral therapy (ART), particularly during pregnancy. However, there have been no evaluations of POC CD4 testing in pregnant women. We compared the performance of the PIMA POC analyzer with laboratory-based testing in identifying pregnant women eligible for ART.
Associations between household and neighbourhood socioeconomic status and systolic blood pressure among urban South African adolescents.	Factors resulting in high risk for cardiovascular disease have been well studied in high income countries, but have been less well researched in low/middle income countries. This is despite robust theoretical evidence of environmental transitions in such countries which could result in biological adaptations that lead to increased hypertension and cardiovascular disease risk. Data from the South African Birth to Twenty cohort, Bone Health sub-sample (n = 358, 47% female), were used to model associations between household socioeconomic status (SES) in infancy, household/neighbourhood SES at age 16 years, and systolic blood pressure (multivariate linear regression) and risk for systolic pre-hypertension (binary logistic regression). Bivariate analyses revealed household/neighbourhood SES measures that were significantly associated with increased systolic blood pressure. These significant associations included improved household sanitation in infancy/16 years, caregiver owning the house in infancy and being in a higher tertile (higher SES) of indices measuring school problems/environment or neighbourhood services/problems/crime at 16 years of age. Multivariate analyses adjusted for sex, maternal age, birth weight, parity, smoking, term birth, height/body mass index at 16 years. In adjusted analyses, only one SES variable remained significant for females: those in the middle tertile of the crime prevention index had higher systolic blood pressure (β = 3.52, SE = 1.61) compared with the highest tertile (i.e. those with the highest crime prevention). In adjusted analyses, no SES variables were significantly associated with the systolic blood pressure of boys, or with the risk of systolic pre-hypertension in either sex. The lack of association between SES and systolic blood pressure/systolic pre-hypertension at age 16 years is consistent with other studies showing an equalization of adolescent health inequalities. Further testing of the association between SES and systolic blood pressure would be recommended in adulthood to see whether the lack of association persists.
Inbreeding and inbreeding depression of early life traits in a cooperative mammal.	Mating between relatives often results in negative fitness consequences or inbreeding depression. However, the expression of inbreeding in populations of wild cooperative mammals and the effects of environmental, maternal and social factors on inbreeding depression in these systems are currently not well understood. This study uses pedigree-based inbreeding coefficients from a long-term study of meerkats (Suricata suricatta) in South Africa to reveal that 44% of the population have detectably non-zero (F > 0) inbreeding coefficients. 15% of these inbred individuals were the result of moderate inbreeding (F ≥ 0.125), although such inbreeding events almost solely occurred when mating individuals had no prior experience of each other. Inbreeding depression was evident for a range of traits: pup mass at emergence from the natal burrow, hind-foot length, growth until independence and juvenile survival. However, we found no evidence of significant inbreeding depression for skull and forearm length or for pup survival. This research provides a rare investigation into inbreeding in a cooperative mammal, revealing high levels of inbreeding, considerable negative consequences and complex interactions with the social environment.
Phytochemical studies and antioxidant activity of two South African medicinal plants traditionally used for the management of opportunistic fungal infections in HIV/AIDS patients.	It has been observed that perturbations in the antioxidant defense systems, and consequently redox imbalance, are present in many tissues of HIV-infected patients. Hence, the exogenous supply of antioxidants, as natural compounds that scavenge free radicals, might represent an important additional strategy for the treatment of HIV infection. The aim of this study was therefore to analyse the phytochemical constituents and antioxidant potential of Gasteria bicolor Haw and Pittosporum viridiflorum Sims., two South African plants traditionally used for the management of opportunistic fungal infections (OFIs) in AIDS patients.
Peptidomics-based phylogeny and biogeography of Mantophasmatodea (Hexapoda).	The insect order Mantophasmatodea was described in 2002. Prior to that time, several generations of entomologists had assumed that all major insect taxa were known; thus, its description was a sensation for zoologists. Since then, a surprising abundance and species diversity of this taxon have been found, particularly in the winter rainfall region of South Africa. To learn more about the evolutionary lineages, speciation, and biogeography of Mantophasmatodea, we applied an unusual peptidomics approach. We collected specimens of almost all known and novel taxa of these insects, developed methods for immediate sample preparation in the field, introduced peptide mass fingerprints for the unambiguous identification of taxa, and subsequently analyzed the most extensive data set on peptide hormones ever compiled for insect taxa. To account for intraspecific variation, we analyzed several individuals per putative species. Increased taxon sampling was preferred over a further increase in the number of characters to optimize the accuracy of phylogenetic analyses. The large data set made it possible to test the validity of using neuropeptide sequences, which coevolve with their respective receptors, to analyze phylogenetic relationships among closely related taxa. Altogether, the data from 71 populations of Mantophasmatodea were sufficient to clearly separate the major clades of Mantophasmatodea, including previously undescribed taxa such as Pachyphasma, Striatophasma, and Austrophasmatidae gen. et sp. nov. "RV." The data confirm the monophyly of Austrophasmatidae and show a relatively recent and extensive radiation in the winter rainfall region of South Africa but also suggest that the species-level diversification of Namibian Mantophasma is less marked than previously thought. We discuss the biogeographical and ecological factors that may have resulted in different regional patterns of endemism and species diversity in Mantophasmatodea. The unique development of the neuroendocrine capa-neurons in the ventral nervous system is described as synapomorphy of Mantophasmatodea + Grylloblattodea and is a further argument for a close relationship between these insect taxa.
Early diagnosis of in utero and intrapartum HIV infection in infants prior to 6 weeks of age.	Early initiation of antiretroviral therapy reduces HIV-related infant mortality. The early peak of pediatric HIV-related deaths in South Africa occurs at 3 months of age, coinciding with the earliest age at which treatment is initiated following PCR testing at 6 weeks of age. Earlier diagnosis is necessary to reduce infant mortality. The performances of the Amplicor DNA PCR, COBAS AmpliPrep/COBAS TaqMan (CAP/CTM), and Aptima assays for detecting early HIV infection (acquired in utero and intrapartum) up to 6 weeks of age were compared. Dried blood spots (DBS) were collected at birth and at 2, 4, and 6 weeks from HIV-exposed infants enrolled in an observational cohort study in Johannesburg, South Africa. HIV status was determined at 6 weeks by DNA PCR on whole blood. Serial DBS samples from all HIV-infected infants and two HIV-uninfected, age-matched controls were tested with the 3 assays. Of 710 infants of known HIV status, 38 (5.4%) had in utero (n = 29) or intrapartum (n = 9) infections. By 14 weeks, when treatment should have been initiated, 13 (45%) in utero-infected and 2 (22%) intrapartum-infected infants had died or were lost to follow-up. The CAP/CTM and Aptima assays identified 76.3% of all infants with early HIV infections at birth and by 4 weeks were 96% sensitive. DNA PCR demonstrated lower sensitivities at birth and 4 weeks of 68.4% and 87.5%, respectively. All assays had the lowest sensitivity at 2 weeks of age. CAP/CTM was the only assay with 100% specificity at all ages. Testing at birth versus 6 weeks of age identifies a higher total number of HIV-infected infants, irrespective of the assay.
Status of medical parasitology in South Africa: new challenges and missed opportunities.	In South Africa medical parasitology is neglected due to a shift in funding priorities to focus on HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. Evidence suggests that helminth infections have deleterious effects on HIV and tuberculosis. A multisectoral approach involving key government and research institutions is required to rekindle interest in medical parasitology.
Neuroimaging markers of human immunodeficiency virus infection in South Africa.	Previous studies have reported cognitive deficits among HIV-positive individuals infected with clade C virus. However, no study has examined whether individuals predominately infected with clade C virus exhibit brain atrophy relative to healthy controls. This study examined volumetric differences between 28 HIV+ individuals and 23 HIV- controls from South Africa. Volumetric measures were obtained from six regions of interest -- caudate, thalamus, corpus callosum, total cortex, total gray matter, and total white matter. HIV+ participants had significantly lower volumes in the total white matter (p<0.01), thalamus (p<0.01) and total gray matter (inclusive of cortical and subcortical regions, p<0.01). This study is the first to provide evidence of brain atrophy among HIV+ individuals in South Africa, where HIV clade C predominates. Additional research that integrates neuroimaging, comprehensive neuropsychological testing, genetic variance in clade-specific proteins, and the impact of treatment with Antiretrovirals (ARV) are necessary to understand the development of HIV-related neurocognitive disorders in South Africa.
High diagnostic yield of tuberculosis from screening urine samples from HIV-infected patients with advanced immunodeficiency using the Xpert MTB/RIF assay.	We determined the diagnostic yield of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay for tuberculosis (TB) when testing small volumes of urine from ambulatory HIV-infected patients before starting antiretroviral therapy in South Africa. Compared with a gold standard of sputum culture, the sensitivity of urine Xpert among those with CD4 cell counts of <50, 50-100, and >100 cells per microliter were 44.4%, 25.0%, and 2.7% (P = 0.001), respectively. Urine Xpert testing provides a means of rapid TB diagnosis in patients with advanced immunodeficiency and poor prognosis. These data are indicative of high rates of TB dissemination and renal involvement in this clinical population.
Setting up a platform for plant-based influenza virus vaccine production in South Africa.	During a global influenza pandemic, the vaccine requirements of developing countries can surpass their supply capabilities, if these exist at all, compelling them to rely on developed countries for stocks that may not be available in time. There is thus a need for developing countries in general to produce their own pandemic and possibly seasonal influenza vaccines. Here we describe the development of a plant-based platform for producing influenza vaccines locally, in South Africa. Plant-produced influenza vaccine candidates are quicker to develop and potentially cheaper than egg-produced influenza vaccines, and their production can be rapidly upscaled. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of producing a vaccine to the highly pathogenic avian influenza A subtype H5N1 virus, the most generally virulent influenza virus identified to date. Two variants of the haemagglutinin (HA) surface glycoprotein gene were synthesised for optimum expression in plants: these were the full-length HA gene (H5) and a truncated form lacking the transmembrane domain (H5tr). The genes were cloned into a panel of Agrobacterium tumefaciens binary plant expression vectors in order to test HA accumulation in different cell compartments. The constructs were transiently expressed in tobacco by means of agroinfiltration. Stable transgenic tobacco plants were also generated to provide seed for stable storage of the material as a pre-pandemic strategy.
Astylus atromaculatus (Coleoptera: Melyridae): abundance and role in pollen dispersal in Bt and non-Bt cotton in South Africa.	In South Africa, modified Bt (Cry1 Ac) cotton cultivars and organic ones coexist. This raises the question of the risk of dissemination of genetically modified (GM) pollen to non-GM crops by visiting insects. We inventoried the flower-visiting insects in Bt and non-Bt cotton fields  of the South African Highveld region and investigated their role in pollen dispersal. Their diversity and abundance varied slightly among sites, with Astylus atromaculatus as the predominant insect on both Bt and non-Bt cotton flowers. The other major flower-visiting species were Apis mellifera  and solitary Apidae. No differences were found in the abundance of each taxum between Bt and non-Bt cotton except for Scoliidae and Nitidulidae, which were scarce overall (<0.5%) but more abundant on the non-Bt flowers in the central area of the field at one site. The pollen load on A.  atromaculatus was as high as on Apis mellifera. Cage tests showed that A. atromaculatus can pollinate female cotton plants by transferring pollen from male donor plants. In the field, the flight range of this insect was generally short (25 m), but it can occasionally reach up to 200 m or even  more. This study therefore highlights that A. atromaculatus, commonly regarded as a pest, could be an unexpected but efficient pollinator. Because its population density can be high, this species could mediate unwanted cotton pollen flow when distances between coexiting fields are not sufficient.
Indicators of therapeutic effect in FIT-06, a Phase II trial of a DNA vaccine, GTU(®)-Multi-HIVB, in untreated HIV-1 infected subjects.	Combination highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly decreased HIV-1 related morbidity and mortality globally transforming HIV into a controllable condition. HAART has a number of limitations though, including limited access in resource constrained countries, which have driven the search for simpler, affordable HIV-1 treatment modalities. Therapeutic HIV-1 vaccines aim to provide immunological support to slow disease progression and decrease transmission. We evaluated the safety, immunogenicity and clinical effect of a novel recombinant plasmid DNA therapeutic HIV-1 vaccine, GTU(®)-multi-HIVB, containing 6 different genes derived from an HIV-1 subtype B isolate.
A diffusion tensor imaging and neurocognitive study of HIV-positive children who are HAART-naïve "slow progressors".	There are few neuropsychological or neuroimaging studies of HIV-positive children with "slow progression". "Slow progressors" are typically defined as children or adolescents who were vertically infected with HIV, but who received no or minimal antiretroviral therapy. We compared 12 asymptomatic HIV-positive children (8 to 12 years) with matched controls on a neuropsychological battery as well as diffusion tensor imaging in a masked region of interest analysis focusing on the corpus callosum, internal capsule and superior longitudinal fasciculus. The "slow progressor" group performed significantly worse than controls on the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence Verbal and Performance IQ scales, and on standardised tests of visuospatial processing, visual memory and executive functioning. "Slow progressors" had lower fractional anisotropy (FA), higher mean diffusivity (MD) and radial diffusivity (RD) in the corpus callosum (p= <0.05), and increased MD in the superior longitudinal fasciculus, compared to controls. A correlation was found between poor performance on a test of executive function and a test of attention with corpus callosum FA, and a test of executive function with lowered FA in the superior longitudinal fasiculus. These data suggest that demyelination as reflected by the increase in RD may be a prominent disease process in paediatric HIV infection.
A model to determine the economic viability of water fluoridation.	In view of concerns expressed by South African local authorities the aim of this study was to develop a model to determine whether water fluoridation is economically viable to reduce dental caries in South Africa.
The acceptability of rat trap use over pesticides for rodent control in two poor urban communities in South Africa.	Rodent infestations are a public health problem in poor urban communities. The use of illegal street pesticides to control rodent infestations with resulting poisonings is an additional public health concern receiving limited attention in many developing countries, including South Africa.
Teacher positioning on the teaching of sexual diversity in South African schools.	This paper reports on research with 11 high school teachers in Durban and draws on positioning theory to raise important questions on the teaching of issues relating to homosexuality and bisexuality within sexuality education. Using data collected from classroom observations and in-depth interviews, it demonstrates that issues related to sexual diversity were in most cases ignored or avoided by teachers and when teachers did include aspects of homosexuality, they took up positions that endorsed the idea of 'compulsory heterosexuality'. I conclude by paying attention to ways we can deepen the teaching of homosexual and bisexual issues.
Cultivation shapes genetic novelty in a globally important invader.	Acacia saligna is a species complex that has become invasive in a number of countries worldwide where it has caused substantial environmental and economic impacts. Understanding genetic and other factors contributing to its success may allow managers to limit future invasions of closely related species. We used three molecular markers to compare the introduced range (South Africa) to the native range (Western Australia). Nuclear markers showed that invasive populations are divergent from native populations and most closely related to a cultivated population in Western Australia. We also found incongruence between nuclear and chloroplast data that, together with the long history of cultivation of the species, suggest that introgressive hybridization (coupled with chloroplast capture) may have occurred within A. saligna. While we could not definitively prove introgression, the genetic distance between cultivated and native A. saligna populations was comparable to known interspecific divergences among other Acacia species. Therefore, cultivation, multiple large-scale introductions and possibly introgressive hybridization have rapidly given rise to the divergent genetic entity present in South Africa. This may explain the known global variation in invasiveness and inaccuracy of native bioclimatic models in predicting potential distributions.
Stabilization of Cr(VI) from fine ferrochrome dust using exfoliated vermiculite.	This study proved that vermiculite, a natural occurring mineral, can effectively remove and stabilize Cr(VI) from fine ferrochrome dust leachate. Batch adsorption studies were carried out to determine the effect of pH, contact time and adsorbent dose on the removal of Cr(VI). The process was found to be highly pH dependent. The optimum conditions for the Cr(VI) removal are at a pH of 1.5, contact time of 2h and adsorbent dose of 10gL(-1). The stability of the Cr(VI)-loaded vermiculite remained unchanged after 12 months, when the vermiculite was evaluated with the ASTM and TCLP Cr(VI) leach methods. However, Cr(VI) desorption did take place when the Acid Rain Test was used. The adsorption kinetic data fits the pseudo-second order model, while the equilibrium data of Cr(VI) adsorption onto vermiculite are best described by the Langmuir isotherm. The presence of hydrobiotite and biotite in the industrial vermiculite slightly decreased the degree of adsorption of Cr(VI).
Diverse functional responses to drought in a Mediterranean-type shrubland in South Africa.	• Mediterranean-type ecosystems contain 20% of all vascular plant diversity on Earth and have been identified as being particularly threatened by future increases in drought. Of particular concern is the Cape Floral Region of South Africa, a global biodiversity hotspot, yet there are limited experimental data to validate predicted impacts on the flora. In a field rainout experiment, we tested whether rooting depth and degree of isohydry or anisohydry could aid in the functional classification of drought responses across diverse growth forms. • We imposed a 6-month summer drought, for 2 yr, in a mountain fynbos shrubland. We monitored a suite of parameters, from physiological traits to morphological outcomes, in seven species comprising the three dominant growth forms (deep-rooted proteoid shrubs, shallow-rooted ericoid shrubs and graminoid restioids). • There was considerable variation in drought response both between and within the growth forms. The shallow-rooted, anisohydric ericoid shrubs all suffered considerable reductions in growth and flowering and increased mortality. By contrast, the shallow-rooted, isohydric restioids and deep-rooted, isohydric proteoid shrubs were largely unaffected by the drought. • Rooting depth and degree of iso/anisohydry allow a first-order functional classification of drought response pathways in this flora. Consideration of additional traits would further refine this approach.
Oral and oropharyngeal impalement injury in pediatric patients--focus on rural environment.	This article describes a case series of oral and oropharyngeal impalement injuries in pediatric patients and highlights the peculiar etiological role of the rural environment.
School-based sexual violence among female learners with mild intellectual disability in South Africa.	Following qualitative research methodology, this article presents school-based sexual violence experiences of female learners with mild intellectual disability. A total of 16 learners aged 16 to 24 years participated in the study. The findings revealed that learners with intellectual disability are not immune to school-based sexual violence. Modes of behavior that occurred frequently included touching, threats, and intimidation. School practices that reinforced school-based sexual violence are identified. The findings contradict common misconceptions that people with intellectual disability do not understand what is happening to them. The study recommends that school policies for sexual violence be intensified and learners receive developmentally appropriate sex education.
Inbreeding avoidance influences the viability of reintroduced populations of African wild dogs (Lycaon pictus).	The conservation of many fragmented and small populations of endangered African wild dogs (Lycaon pictus) relies on understanding the natural processes affecting genetic diversity, demographics, and future viability. We used extensive behavioural, life-history, and genetic data from reintroduced African wild dogs in South Africa to (1) test for inbreeding avoidance via mate selection and (2) model the potential consequences of avoidance on population persistence. Results suggested that wild dogs avoided mating with kin. Inbreeding was rare in natal packs, after reproductive vacancies, and between sibling cohorts (observed on 0.8%, 12.5%, and 3.8% of occasions, respectively). Only one of the six (16.7%) breeding pairs confirmed as third-order (or closer) kin consisted of animals that were familiar with each other, while no other paired individuals had any prior association. Computer-simulated populations allowed to experience inbreeding had only a 1.6% probability of extinction within 100 years, whereas all populations avoiding incestuous matings became extinct due to the absence of unrelated mates. Populations that avoided mating with first-order relatives became extinct after 63 years compared with persistence of 37 and 19 years for those also prevented from second-order and third-order matings, respectively. Although stronger inbreeding avoidance maintains significantly more genetic variation, our results demonstrate the potentially severe demographic impacts of reduced numbers of suitable mates on the future viability of small, isolated wild dog populations. The rapid rate of population decline suggests that extinction may occur before inbreeding depression is observed.
Radiation dose to surgeons in theatre.	To evaluate the effects of ionising radiation and radiation limits, and measure radiation doses received by surgeons in theatre.
Association between low serum free testosterone and adverse prognostic factors in men diagnosed with prostate cancer in KwaZulu-Natal.	The association of serum free testosterone (FT) with prostate cancer is not fully understood. Studies on the results of the relationship between serum testosterone level and prostate cancer are conflicting. However, there is a reported association between lower serum testosterone levels and high-grade prostate cancer.
Elemental composition and fatty acid profile of the edible fruits of Amatungula (Carissa macrocarpa) and impact of soil quality on chemical characteristics.	The Amatungula fruit, from Carissa macrocarpa, is commonly consumed by the local people of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), South Africa. Levels of elements in the fruit were determined to assess if they conform to recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) and to assess for potential toxicities. Soils and fruit samples from nine sites in eastern KZN were investigated. Concentrations of elements in the fruit were found to be in the order of Ca>Mg>Fe>Mn≈Cu≈Pb>Se>Cr>Ni>Zn. For the elements in focus, except for Pb, all of the elements found in the fruit contribute significantly towards the RDAs. Lipid profiling was also done to determine the fruits potential as a source of essential fatty acids. The fruit was rich in monounsaturated and essential fatty acids with the linoleic acid to α-linolenic acid ratio conforming to the recommended range for cardiac health. Concentrations of elements in soil had no significant effect on plant concentrations, but competition between elements in soil influenced their availability. Total soil concentrations of most metals studied have significantly correlated Pb availability, indicating the impact of these metals on Pb availability. The Amatungula fruit showed tendency to accumulate Pb, with Pb levels in fruit at all sites being toxic to human health. Site location had a major effect on plant concentrations however uptake and distribution was primarily dependent on the plants inherent controls, as evidenced by the accumulation and exclusion of elements, to meet its physiological requirements.
Development of a dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction method for the determination of fluoroquinolones in chicken liver by high performance liquid chromatography.	A simple and cost effective sample pre-treatment method, dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (DLLME), has been developed for the extraction of six fluoroquinolones (FQs) from chicken liver samples. Clean DLLME extracts were analyzed for fluoroquinolones using liquid chromatography with diode array detection (LC-DAD). Parameters such as type and volume of disperser solvent, type and volume of extraction solvent, concentration and composition of phosphoric acid in the disperser solvent and pH were optimized. Linearity in the concentration range of 30-500 μg kg(-1) was obtained with regression coefficients ranging from 0.9945 to 0.9974. Intra-day repeatability expressed as % RSD was between 4 and 7%. The recoveries determined in spiked blank chicken livers at three concentration levels (i.e. 50, 100 and 300 μg kg(-1)) ranged from 83 to 102%. LODs were between 5 and 19 μg kg(-1) while LOQs ranged between 23 and 62 μg kg(-1). All of the eight chicken liver samples obtained from the local supermarkets were found to contain at least one type of fluoroquinolone with enrofloxacin being the most commonly detected. Only one sample had four fluoroquinolone antibiotics (ciprofloxacin, difloxacin, enrofloxacin, norfloxacin). Norfloxacin which is unlicensed for use in South Africa was also detected in three of the eight chicken liver samples analyzed. The concentration levels of all FQs antibiotics in eight samples ranged from 8.8 to 35.3 μg kg(-1), values which are lower than the South African stipulated maximum residue limits (MRL).
Novel method for determining DDT in vapour and particulate phases within contaminated indoor air in a malaria area of South Africa.	The organochlorine insecticide DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane) is still used for malaria vector control in certain areas of South Africa. The strict Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) allows spraying on the inside of traditional dwellings with DDT. In rural villages contaminated dust presents an additional pathway for exposure to DDT. We present a new method for the determination of DDT in indoor air where separate vapour and particulate samples are collected in a single step with a denuder configuration of a multi-channel open tubular silicone rubber (polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS)) trap combined with a micro quartz fibre filter. The multi-channel PDMS trap section of the denuder concentrates vapour phase insecticide whereas particle associated insecticide is transferred downstream where it is collected on a micro-fibre filter followed by a second multi-channel PDMS trap to capture the blow-off from the filter. The multi-channel PDMS trap and filter combination are designed to fit a commercial thermal desorber for direct introduction of samples into a GC-MS. The technique is solvent-free. Analyte extraction and sample clean-up is not required. Two fractions, vapour phase and particulate phase p,p'-DDT, o,p'-DDT; p,p'-DDD, o,p'-DDD; p,p'-DDE and o,p'-DDE in 4 L contaminated indoor air, were each quantitatively analysed by GC-MS using isotopically labelled ring substituted (13)C(12) -p,p'-DDT as an internal standard. Limits of detection were 0.07-0.35 ng m(-3) for p,p'-DDT, o,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDD, o,p'-DDD, p,p'-DDE and o,p'-DDE. Ratios of airborne p,p'-DDD/p,p'-DDT and of o,p'-DDT/p,p'-DDT are unusual and do not match the ideal certified ingredient composition required of commercial DDT. Results suggest that the DDT products used for indoor residual spraying (IRS) prior to, and during 2007, may have been compromised with regards to insecticidal efficacy, demonstrating the power of this new environmental forensics tool.
Two multidimensional chromatographic methods for enantiomeric analysis of o,p'-DDT and o,p'-DDD in contaminated soil and air in a malaria area of South Africa.	In rural parts of South Africa the organochlorine insecticide DDT (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane) is still used for malaria vector control where traditional dwellings are sprayed on the inside with small quantities of technical DDT. Since o,p'-DDT may show enantioselective oestrogenicity and biodegradability, it is important to analyse enantiomers of o,p'-DDT and its chiral degradation product, o,p'-DDD, for both health and environmental-forensic considerations. Generally, chiral analysis is performed using heart-cut multidimensional gas chromatography (MDGC) and, more recently, comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography (GC×GC). We developed an off-line gas chromatographic fraction collection (heart-cut) procedure for the selective capturing of the appropriate isomers from a first apolar column, followed by reinjection and separation on a second chiral column. Only the o,p'-isomers of DDT and DDD fractions from the first dimension complex chromatogram (achiral apolar GC column separation) were selectively collected onto a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) multichannel open tubular silicone rubber trap by simply placing the latter device on the flame tip of an inactivated flame ionisation detector (FID). The multichannel trap containing the o,p'-heart-cuts was then thermally desorbed into a GC with time-of-flight mass spectrometry detection (GC-TOFMS) for second dimension enantioselective separation on a chiral column (β-cyclodextrin-based). By selectively capturing only the o,p'-isomers from the complex sample chromatogram, (1)D separation of ultra-trace level enantiomers could be achieved on the second chiral column without matrix interference. Here, we present solventless concentration techniques for extraction of DDT from contaminated soil and air, and report enantiomeric fraction (EF) values of o,p'-DDT and o,p'-DDD obtained by a new multidimensional approach for heart-cut gas chromatographic fraction collection for off-line second dimension enantiomeric separation by (1)D GC-TOFMS of selected isomers. This multidimensional method is compared to the complementary technique of comprehensive GC×GC-TOFMS using the same enantioselective column, this time as the first dimension of separation.
Peritoneal dialysis in Cape Town, South Africa.	Chronic kidney disease is a major public health problem in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), which encompasses 70% of the least-developed countries in the world. Most people in SSA have no access to any form of renal replacement therapy (RRT). Given its ease of performance and patient independence, peritoneal dialysis (PD) should be an ideal form of RRT in SSA, but several complex and interdependent factors make PD a difficult option in SSA. The present review describes the practice of PD in SSA, with emphasis on Cape Town, South Africa.
Change over three years in adolescents' physical activity levels and patterns after a physical activity intervention: play study.	This study aimed to determine over a three-year period what the PA levels and patterns of adolescents will be after participating in a physical activity (PA) intervention.
Inclusion and human rights in health policies: comparative and benchmarking analysis of 51 policies from Malawi, Sudan, South Africa and Namibia.	While many health services strive to be equitable, accessible and inclusive, peoples' right to health often goes unrealized, particularly among vulnerable groups. The extent to which health policies explicitly seek to achieve such goals sets the policy context in which services are delivered and evaluated. An analytical framework was developed--EquiFrame--to evaluate 1) the extent to which 21 Core Concepts of human rights were addressed in policy documents, and 2) coverage of 12 Vulnerable Groups who might benefit from such policies. Using this framework, analysis of 51 policies across Malawi, Namibia, South Africa and Sudan, confirmed the relevance of all Core Concepts and Vulnerable Groups. Further, our analysis highlighted some very strong policies, serious shortcomings in others as well as country-specific patterns. If social inclusion and human rights do not underpin policy formation, it is unlikely they will be inculcated in service delivery. EquiFrame facilitates policy analysis and benchmarking, and provides a means for evaluating policy revision and development.
Cost-effectiveness analysis of human resources policy interventions to address the shortage of nurses in rural South Africa.	Recent policy recommendations have called for increased research efforts to inform the design of cost-effective interventions to address the shortage of health workers in rural areas. This paper takes forward the recent use of Discrete Choice Experiments to assess the effects of potential incentives to attract nurses to rural areas. The analysis relies on data collected in South Africa between August and November 2008. Effectiveness measures derived from Discrete Choice Experiments are combined in a Markov model to derive the long-term effects of policies, and costs are evaluated with secondary data. Measures involving the selection of more nursing students who are more likely to accept positions in rural areas are shown to be the most cost-effective interventions. If such policies could not be implemented, the next best options are to offer preferential access to specialist training to nurses willing to work in rural areas.
Acetylcholinesterase activity in the freshwater shrimp Caridina nilotica as a biomarker of Roundup(®) herbicide pollution of freshwater systems in South Africa.	The use of Caridina nilotica whole-body acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity as a potential biomarker of Roundup(®) pollution of aquatic ecosystems was investigated. Forty days post hatch (dph) shrimps were exposed to different concentrations of 0.0, 4.3, 6.7, 10.5, 16.4, 25.6 and 40.0 mg/L in a 96 h acute toxicity test; and 0.0, 2.2, 2.8, 3.4, 4.3 and 5.4 mg/L in a 21 d chronic toxicity test. Whole-body AChE activities were determined at the end of the exposure periods by spectrophotometric assay of sample extract; activities were then normalized against protein contents in the samples and expressed in nanomoles of substrate hydrolyzed. Results of both tests showed that AChE activity was concentration-dependent. Mean AChE activities and standard deviations (±SD) for 96 h acute toxicity were 3.6239 (± 0.4185), 3.4157 (± 1.1842), 2.537 (± 1.3989), 2.4253 (± 1.4202), 2.4127 (± 1.9097), 2.0017 (± 1.1080) and 2.316 (± 0.4001) nmol/min/mg protein; while activity levels for 21 d test were 3.6907(± 0.3401), 2.8473 (± 0.713), 2.9134 (± 0.9879), 2.6738 (± 0.7117), 2.3019 (± 0.4464) and 2.1478 (± 0.864) nmol/min/mg protein. Reference basal AChE activity for 40 dph C. nilotica based on the two control groups was estimated as 3.6907 (± 0.3401) nmol/min/mg proteins. The present work provides ecotoxicological basis for the possible use of AChE activity in C. nilotica as a biomarker for monitoring Roundup(®) pollution in freshwater systems.
Transitioning HIV care and treatment programs in southern Africa to full local management.	Global AIDS programs such as the US President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) face a challenging health care management transition. HIV care must evolve from vertically-organized, externally-supported efforts to sustainable, locally controlled components that are integrated into the horizontal primary health care systems of host nations. We compared four southern African nations in AIDS care, financial, literacy, and health worker capacity parameters (2005 to 2009) to contrast in their capacities to absorb the huge HIV care and prevention endeavors that are now managed with international technical and fiscal support. Botswana has a relatively high national income, a small population, and an advanced HIV/AIDS care program; it is well poised to take on management of its HIV/AIDS programs. South Africa has had a slower start, given HIV denialism philosophies of the previous government leadership. Nonetheless, South Africa has the national income, health care management, and health worker capacity to succeed in fully local management. The sheer magnitude of the burden is daunting, however, and South Africa will need continuing fiscal assistance. In contrast, Zambia and Mozambique have comparatively lower per capita incomes, many fewer health care workers per capita, and lower national literacy rates. It is improbable that fully independent management of their HIV programs is feasible on the timetable being contemplated by donors, nor is locally sustainable financing conceivable at present. A tailored nation-by-nation approach is needed for the transition to full local capacitation; donor nation policymakers must ensure that global resources and technical support are not removed prematurely.
A taxometric analysis of problem gambling data from a South African national urban sample.	We investigate the question whether problem gambling (PG) in a recent South African sample, as measured by the Problem Gambling Severity Index (PGSI), is dimensional or categorical. We use two taxometric procedures, Mean Above Minus Below A Cut (MAMBAC) and Maxim Covariance (MAXCOV), to investigate the taxonic structure of PG as constructed by the PGSI. Data are from the 2010 South African National Urban Prevalence Study of Gambling Behavior. A representative sample of the urban adult population in South Africa (N = 3,000). Responses are to the 9 item PGSI. MAMBAC provided positive but modest evidence that PG as measured by the PGSI was taxonic. MAXCOV pointed more strongly to the same conclusion. These analyses also provide evidence that a PGSI cutoff score of 10 rather than the standard 8 may be called for. PG as constructed by the PGSI may best be thought of as categorical, but further studies with more theory based measurements are needed to determine whether this holds in a wider range of samples and for other screens. A higher cutoff score may be called for on the PGSI when it is used for research purposes to avoid false positives.
Community adherence support improves programme retention in children on antiretroviral treatment: a multicentre cohort study in South Africa.	HIV-positive children in low-income settings face many challenges to adherence to antiretroviral treatment (ART) and have increased mortality on treatment compared to children in developed countries. Adult ART programmes have demonstrated benefit from community support to improve treatment outcomes; however, there are no empirical data on the effectiveness of this intervention in children. This study compared clinical, virological and immunological outcomes between children who received and who did not receive community-based adherence support from patient advocates (PAs) in four South African provinces.
Descending mediastinitis.	We studied 13 patients with mediastinal abscesses caused by oropharyngeal infections, who presented between April 2007 and June 2011. All patients were operated on after maxillofacial and ear, nose and throat surgeons had treated the primary source and drained all collections in the neck. Thoracic surgery was performed in the same session. Anterior mediastinal collections were drained via a small mediastinotomy. Posterior collections were approached via a thoracotomy. Chest computed tomography was essential to delineate the extent of disease. A thoracotomy approach was used in 7 patients; 2 of them required an anterior mediastinotomy on the opposite side. The others had an anterior mediastinotomy which was bilateral in 2 cases. After repeat computed tomography, 5 patients were operated on for suspected new loculations; tissue edema had caused false imaging in 3 of them. There was no mortality. Early after eradication of the source and pathways to the mediastinum, gravity drainage of mediastinal abscesses, and good antibiotic cover, with repeat computed tomography after 3 days, was an effective approach in this highly fatal disease.
Production and characterization of bioflocculant produced by Halobacillus sp. Mvuyo isolated from bottom sediment of Algoa Bay.	A bioflocculant-producing bacteria isolated from marine sediment of Algoa Bay was assessed for its bioflocculant-producing potentials. Based on 16S recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (rDNA) sequence analysis, the isolate was identified as Halobacillus sp. and deposited in the Genbank as Halobacillus sp. Mvuyo with accession number HQ537125. The bacteria produced bioflocculant optimally in the presence of glucose (76% flocculating activity) and ammonium chloride (93% flocculating activity) as sole sources of carbon and nitrogen, respectively. The flocculating capabilities of the flocculant were increased by the addition of Ca2+ (76% flocculating activity) and the highest flocculating activity was observed at neutral pH (7.0). The chemical analysis of the bioflocculant revealed that it contained mainly polysaccharide and protein.
The South African Triage Scale (adult version) provides reliable acuity ratings.	To estimate the inter- and intra-rater reliability of triage ratings on Emergency Centre patients by South African nurses and doctors using the South African Triage Scale (SATS).
Feeding the emergence of advanced heart disease in Soweto: a nutritional survey of black African patients with heart failure.	To describe dietary habits and potential nutritional deficiencies in black African patients diagnosed with heart failure (HF).
Conservation threats due to human-caused increases in fire frequency in Mediterranean-climate ecosystems.	Periodic wildfire is an important natural process in Mediterranean-climate ecosystems, but increasing fire recurrence threatens the fragile ecology of these regions. Because most fires are human-caused, we investigated how human population patterns affect fire frequency. Prior research in California suggests the relationship between population density and fire frequency is not linear. There are few human ignitions in areas with low population density, so fire frequency is low. As population density increases, human ignitions and fire frequency also increase, but beyond a density threshold, the relationship becomes negative as fuels become sparser and fire suppression resources are concentrated. We tested whether this hypothesis also applies to the other Mediterranean-climate ecosystems of the world. We used global satellite databases of population, fire activity, and land cover to evaluate the spatial relationship between humans and fire in the world's five Mediterranean-climate ecosystems. Both the mean and median population densities were consistently and substantially higher in areas with than without fire, but fire again peaked at intermediate population densities, which suggests that the spatial relationship is complex and nonlinear. Some land-cover types burned more frequently than expected, but no systematic differences were observed across the five regions. The consistent association between higher population densities and fire suggests that regardless of differences between land-cover types, natural fire regimes, or overall population, the presence of people in Mediterranean-climate regions strongly affects the frequency of fires; thus, population growth in areas now sparsely settled presents a conservation concern. Considering the sensitivity of plant species to repeated burning and the global conservation significance of Mediterranean-climate ecosystems, conservation planning needs to consider the human influence on fire frequency. Fine-scale spatial analysis of relationships between people and fire may help identify areas where increases in fire frequency will threaten ecologically valuable areas.
Species reassignment of Geotrichum bryndzae, Geotrichum phurueaensis, Geotrichum silvicola and Geotrichum vulgare based on phylogenetic analyses and mating compatibility.	The present classification of Galactomyces and its anamorph, Geotrichum, is based on various studies that used morphology, ecology, biochemistry, DNA-DNA reassociation comparisons and gene sequencing. In this study, the identities of strains of the Centraalbureau voor Schimmelcultures yeast culture collection, as well as seven strains from South Africa, were examined by analyses of the nucleotide divergence in the internal transcribed spacer regions of the nuclear rRNA gene (nrRNA) operon, the D1/D2 domains of the 26S rRNA gene and partial actin gene sequences as well as compatibility studies. The South African strains were assigned to species in the genus Galactomyces. The phylogenetic analyses and mating studies revealed that Geotrichum silvicola and Geotrichum bryndzae are synonyms of Galactomyces candidus and that Geotrichum vulgare is a synonym of Galactomyces pseudocandidus.
Intensity and correlates of multidimensional problems in HIV patients receiving integrated palliative care in sub-Saharan Africa.	Despite global clinical guidance that HIV patients should have multidimensional care integrated into their management, there has been very limited data to guide practice since the advent of treatment. This study aimed to determine the three-day period intensity of problems (physical, psychological, social and spiritual) among HIV patients receiving integrated palliative care in sub-Saharan Africa, and to identify associations with problem severity.
Profiling undergraduates' generic learning skills on entry to medical school; an international study.	Medical education faces challenges posed by widening access to training, a demand for globally competent healthcare workers and progress towards harmonisation of standards.
The HPV vaccine: a comparison of focus groups conducted in South Africa and Ohio Appalachia.	Worldwide, cervical cancer is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality among women. Even though women in developing countries account for approximately 85 % of the cervical cancer cases and deaths, disparities in cervical cancer rates are also documented in developed countries like the United States (U.S.). Recently, formative research conducted in the U.S. and developing countries like South Africa have sought to gain a better understanding of the knowledge, beliefs, and attitudes about cervical cancer prevention, HPV, and the acceptance of the HPV vaccine. This study compares findings from two independent focus group studies. One study was conducted in a segregated township in Johannesburg, South Africa (n = 24) and the other study was conducted in Ohio Appalachia (n = 19). The following seven themes emerged during the discussions from both studies: HPV and cervical cancer; health decision making; parent-child communication; healthy children; HPV vaccine costs; sexual abuse; and HPV vaccine education. Findings from both studies indicate the importance of the role of mothers and grandmothers in the health care decision-making process for children and a lack of awareness of HPV and its association with cervical cancer. While there was interest in the HPV vaccine, participants voiced concern about the vaccine's cost and side effects. Some participants expressed concern that receipt of the HPV vaccine may initiate adolescent sexual behavior. However, other participants suggested that the HPV vaccine may protect young women who may experience sexual abuse. The importance of developing culturally appropriate educational materials and programs about cervical cancer prevention and the HPV vaccine were expressed by participants in both countries. 
Developing an educational research framework for evaluating rural training of health professionals: a case for innovation.	World-wide, rural clinical training of undergraduate medical students is looking to transform learning experiences, calling for the adoption of innovative approaches that create spaces for curriculum renewal and new ways of thinking. In order for these teaching models to gain acceptance and credibility among the relevant academic communities, it is critical that they be studied and evaluated.
Female sex work and international sport events - no major changes in demand or supply of paid sex during the 2010 Soccer World Cup: a cross-sectional study.	Important unanswered questions remain on the impact of international sporting events on the sex industry. Speculation about increased demand and supply of sex work often generates significant attention, but also additional funding for HIV programmes. This study assessed whether changes occurred in the demand and supply of paid sex during the 2010 Soccer World Cup in South Africa.
Effects of season, browse species and polyethylene glycol addition on gas production kinetics of forages in the subhumid subtropical savannah, South Africa.	This study was conducted to investigate the effects of season, species and polyethylene glycol addition on gas production (GP) and GP kinetic parameters by in vitro incubation (72 h) of five plant species from the subhumid subtropical savannah, South Africa. Plant species used were Acacia natalitia, Acacia nilotica, Dichrostachys cinerea, Scutia myrtina and Chromolaena odorata, leaves of which were harvested during the dry (June/July), early wet (November/December) and late wet (February/March) seasons. An automated in vitro gas production technique was used in two experiments carried out with nine replicates. The first experiment was to test the effect of season and species, while the second experiment tested the effect of tannins using polyethylene glycol 4000 (PEG). The PEG treatment was applied to samples in the early wet and late wet seasons.
De novo gene mutations highlight patterns of genetic and neural complexity in schizophrenia.	To evaluate evidence for de novo etiologies in schizophrenia, we sequenced at high coverage the exomes of families recruited from two populations with distinct demographic structures and history. We sequenced a total of 795 exomes from 231 parent-proband trios enriched for sporadic schizophrenia cases, as well as 34 unaffected trios. We observed in cases an excess of de novo nonsynonymous single-nucleotide variants as well as a higher prevalence of gene-disruptive de novo mutations relative to controls. We found four genes (LAMA2, DPYD, TRRAP and VPS39) affected by recurrent de novo events within or across the two populations, which is unlikely to have occurred by chance. We show that de novo mutations affect genes with diverse functions and developmental profiles, but we also find a substantial contribution of mutations in genes with higher expression in early fetal life. Our results help define the genomic and neural architecture of schizophrenia.
Medicinal utilization of exotic plants by Bapedi traditional healers to treat human ailments in Limpopo province, South Africa.	Most exotic plants are usually labelled as alien invasives and targeted for eradication. However, some of these exotic plants play an important role in the traditional primary healthcare sector of the Bapedi culture in the Limpopo Province of South Africa. The medicinal uses of most of these species have neither been documented nor their biological activity evaluated.
The tumor necrosis factor-α gene -238G>A polymorphism, dietary fat intake, obesity risk and serum lipid concentrations in black and white South African women.	This study explored interactions between dietary fat intake and the tumor necrosis factor-α gene (TNFA) -238G>A polymorphism (rs361525) on adiposity and serum lipid concentrations in apparently healthy premenopausal black and white South African (SA) women.
Bulbine natalensis and Bulbine frutescens promote cutaneous wound healing.	The gel from the leaves of Bulbine natalensis (BN) and Bulbine frutescens (BF) is commonly used as a traditional medicine in South Africa for the treatment of skin wounds and burns. Treatment with both leaf gel extracts has previously been demonstrated to increase tensile strength and protein and DNA content in pig dermal wounds. This study examined the effect of the leaf gel extracts in vivo on histology of wound healing in pigs to elucidate the mechanism of increased tensile strength.
The feasibility of using screening criteria to reduce clinic visits for stable patients on antiretroviral therapy in South Africa.	South African HIV care providers are exploring ways to reduce the intensity of patient visits while maintaining high quality of care. We used routinely collected data to model whether a simple screening tool could identify stable patients who would not need to see a doctor during a scheduled medical visit.
Structural insights into the South African HIV-1 subtype C protease: impact of hinge region dynamics and flap flexibility in drug resistance.	The HIV protease plays a major role in the life cycle of the virus and has long been a target in antiviral therapy. Resistance of HIV protease to protease inhibitors (PIs) is problematic for the effective treatment of HIV infection. The South African HIV-1 subtype C protease (C-SA PR), which contains eight polymorphisms relative to the consensus HIV-1 subtype B protease, was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified, and crystallized. The crystal structure of the C-SA PR was resolved at 2.7 Å, which is the first crystal structure of a HIV-1 subtype C protease that predominates in Africa. Structural analyses of the C-SA PR in comparison to HIV-1 subtype B proteases indicated that polymorphisms at position 36 of the homodimeric HIV-1 protease may impact on the stability of the hinge region of the protease, and hence the dynamics of the flap region. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that the flap region of the C-SA PR displays a wider range of movements over time as compared to the subtype B proteases. Reduced stability in the hinge region resulting from the absent E35-R57 salt bridge in the C-SA PR, most likely contributes to the increased flexibility of the flaps which may be associated with reduced susceptibility to PIs.
The use of eschar swabs for the diagnosis of African tick-bite fever.	African tick-bite fever (ATBF) caused by Rickettsia africae is a frequent cause of fever in returned travelers. Here, we used eschar swabs and/or eschar crust samples for the molecular diagnosis of ATBF in returned travelers. In 4 of 5 patients returning from South Africa, including 3 with negative serology, R. africae was identified by molecular tools targeting 2 different genes. The findings of this study highlight the usefulness of eschar swabs and/or eschar crust samples for the diagnosis of R. africae infection.
Rediscovery of Haematobosca zuluensis (Zumpt), (Diptera, Stomoxyinae): re-description and amended keys for the genus.	Prior to this publication, the biting fly Haematobosca zuluensis (Zumpt, 1950) (Diptera, Muscidae, Stomoxyinae) was known only from a single male specimen collected in 1923 in Zululand, South Africa. Seven additional males were subsequently captured in the Kruger National Park of South Africa, one in 1984 and six in 1991, but remained unidentified until now. The genus includes species of considerable veterinary significance, but current keys for identification of species are misleading due to inadequate description of H. zuluensis.
Pediatric response to second-line antiretroviral therapy in South Africa.	With improved access to pediatric antiretroviral therapy (ART) in resource-limited settings, more children could experience first-line ART treatment failure.
Hormonal contraceptive continuation and switching in South Africa: implications for evaluating the association of injectable hormonal contraceptive use and HIV.	Investigating the association between hormonal contraception and HIV is challenging due to high discontinuation rates among users. This secondary analysis of 262 South African adolescent new users of hormonal contraception found continuation rates after 1 year for depot medroxyprogesterone acetate, norethisterone enanthate, or combined oral contraceptives of 40.4%, 64.4%, and 64.6%, respectively. Implications for studies evaluating the association between injectable hormonal contraceptive use and HIV are discussed.
Rates and cost of hospitalization before and after initiation of antiretroviral therapy in urban and rural settings in South Africa.	Few studies have compared hospitalizations before and after antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation in the same patients. We analyzed the cost of hospitalizations among 3906 adult patients in 2 South African hospitals, 30% of whom initiated ART. Hospitalizations were 50% and 40% more frequent and 1.5 and 2.6 times more costly at a CD4 cell count, 100 cells/mm(3) when compared with 200–350 cells/mm(3) in the pre-ART and ART period, respectively. Mean inpatient cost per patient year was USD 117 (95%confidence interval, 85 to 158) for patients on ART and USD 72(95% confidence interval, 56 to 89) for pre-ART patients. Raising ART eligibility thresholds could avoid the high cost of hospitalization before and immediately after ART initiation.
Perceptions regarding the shortened dental arch among dental practitioners in the Western Cape Province, South Africa.	This survey was conducted to determine the knowledge of and opinions related to the shortened dental arch (SDA), among dentists in the Western Cape Province, South Africa.
Dental ethics case 19: What are my ethical responsibilities when I suspect a colleague of substance abuse?	The situation described in this case scenario is an unwelcome one and can often lead to a breakdown in the relationship between professional colleagues. Many of these must be handled by scrupulous adherence to basic ethical principles. Where such conflicts do arise, every effort should be made to contain them in a manner which: avoids placing patients at risk; maintains the continuity of patient care and safeguards their rights and the quality of the dental care they receive; avoids bringing the profession into disrepute; maintains public confidence in the profession; treats professional colleagues as we would wish to be treated ourselves.
Monanema joopi n. sp. (Nematoda, Onchocercidae) from Acomys (Acomys) spinosissimus Peters, 1852 (Muridae) in South Africa, with comments on the filarial genus.	Monanema joopi n. sp. is described from blood drawn from the heart of the murid Acomys (Acomys) spinosissimus in South Africa. It is characterised by a non-bulbous cephalic extremity, shared with only one of its five congeners, and a cylindrical tail with caudal alae and a spicular ratio of 2.7 in the male. As is typical for the genus, microfilariae are skin-dwelling. They are 185 to 215 micrometres long and have no refractory granules beneath their sheath. A key to the species of Monanema is presented and an amended generic description, based on the six currently known species, is proposed. Species of Monanema are primarily lymphatic and the low intensity of infection with M. joopi n. sp. in blood from the heart, might suggest that not all adults settle in the heart cavities. One might also consider that other, more susceptible rodents serve as hosts for this parasite as well. To date, the geographic range of Monanema includes North America, Africa and Australia, each with representatives of a different lineage. Given the present hypotheses on the evolutionary origin and subsequent migrations of rodents, we expect the origin of Monanema to be in the Palearctic-Oriental region.
Babesia ugwidiensis, a new species of avian piroplasm from Phalacrocoracidae in South Africa.	A new species of haematozoa, Babesia ugwidiensis sp. nov. from a cormorant is described. This is the first species of piroplasm to be recorded from the Phalacrocoracidae and the relationship of this parasite to other Babesia spp. from marine hosts is discussed.
Chemically and geographically distinct solid-phase iron pools in the Southern Ocean.	Iron is a limiting nutrient in many parts of the oceans, including the unproductive regions of the Southern Ocean. Although the dominant fraction of the marine iron pool occurs in the form of solid-phase particles, its chemical speciation and mineralogy are challenging to characterize on a regional scale. We describe a diverse array of iron particles, ranging from 20 to 700 nanometers in diameter, in the waters of the Southern Ocean euphotic zone. Distinct variations in the oxidation state and composition of these iron particles exist between the coasts of South Africa and Antarctica, with different iron pools occurring in different frontal zones. These speciation variations can result in solubility differences that may affect the production of bioavailable dissolved iron.
Surgical placement of implants--experiences, practices and opinions of South African prosthodontists.	It is generally accepted that dental implant-treatment is "restorative" driven: the virtual blueprint of a prosthesis determines the position and number of implants to be placed. Competent interdisciplinary team-work is essential for the successful completion of implant-retained restorations. The purpose of this survey was to determine the experiences, practices and opinions in terms of the surgical placement of implants among South African prosthodontists.
A proposed method to determine fumonisin exposure from maize consumption in a rural South African population using a culturally appropriate FFQ.	To develop an FFQ for estimating culture-specific maize intake that can distinguish between home-grown and commercial maize. Home-grown maize is more likely to be contaminated with fumonisins, mycotoxins that are associated with increased risk of oesophageal cancer.
Health in South Africa: changes and challenges since 2009.	Since the 2009 Lancet Health in South Africa Series, important changes have occurred in the country, resulting in an increase in life expectancy to 60 years. Historical injustices together with the disastrous health policies of the previous administration are being transformed. The change in leadership of the Ministry of Health has been key, but new momentum is inhibited by stasis within the health management bureaucracy. Specific policy and programme changes are evident for all four of the so-called colliding epidemics: HIV and tuberculosis; chronic illness and mental health; injury and violence; and maternal, neonatal, and child health. South Africa now has the world's largest programme of antiretroviral therapy, and some advances have been made in implementation of new tuberculosis diagnostics and treatment scale-up and integration. HIV prevention has received increased attention. Child mortality has benefited from progress in addressing HIV. However, more attention to postnatal feeding support is needed. Many risk factors for non-communicable diseases have increased substantially during the past two decades, but an ambitious government policy to address lifestyle risks such as consumption of salt and alcohol provide real potential for change. Although mortality due to injuries seems to be decreasing, high levels of interpersonal violence and accidents persist. An integrated strategic framework for prevention of injury and violence is in progress but its successful implementation will need high-level commitment, support for evidence-led prevention interventions, investment in surveillance systems and research, and improved human-resources and management capacities. A radical system of national health insurance and re-engineering of primary health care will be phased in for 14 years to enable universal, equitable, and affordable health-care coverage. Finally, national consensus has been reached about seven priorities for health research with a commitment to increase the health research budget to 2·0% of national health spending. However, large racial differentials exist in social determinants of health, especially housing and sanitation for the poor and inequity between the sexes, although progress has been made in access to basic education, electricity, piped water, and social protection. Integration of the private and public sectors and of services for HIV, tuberculosis, and non-communicable diseases needs to improve, as do surveillance and information systems. Additionally, successful interventions need to be delivered widely. Transformation of the health system into a national institution that is based on equity and merit and is built on an effective human-resources system could still place South Africa on track to achieve Millennium Development Goals 4, 5, and 6 and would enhance the lives of its citizens.
Textile dye removal from wastewater effluents using bioflocculants produced by indigenous bacterial isolates.	Bioflocculant-producing bacteria were isolated from activated sludge of a wastewater treatment plant located in Durban, South Africa, and identified using standard biochemical tests as well as the analysis of their 16S rRNA gene sequences. The bioflocculants produced by these organisms were ethanol precipitated, purified using 2% (w/v) cetylpyridinium chloride solution and evaluated for removal of wastewater dyes under different pH, temperature and nutritional conditions. Bioflocculants from these indigenous bacteria were very effective for decolourizing the different dyes tested in this study, with a removal rate of up to 97.04%. The decolourization efficiency was largely influenced by the type of dye, pH, temperature, and flocculant concentration. A pH of 7 was found to be optimum for the removal of both whale and mediblue dyes, while the optimum pH for fawn and mixed dye removal was found to be between 9 and 10. Optimum temperature for whale and mediblue dye removal was 35 &#176;C, and that for fawn and mixed dye varied between 40&#8211;45 &#176;C and 35&#8211;40 &#176;C, respectively. These bacterial bioflocculants may provide an economical and cleaner alternative to replace or supplement present treatment processes for the removal of dyes from wastewater effluents, since they are biodegradable and easily sustainable.
Development of a simplified, cost effective GC-ECD methodology for the sensitive detection of bromoform in the troposphere.	Wherever measurements have been made bromoform was found to be ubiquitous in the surface ocean in pmolar-nmolar concentrations. These measurements show concentrations in coastal regions orders of magnitude higher than in the pelagic oceans. Its atmospheric presence is primarily due to its release from algae and rapid transport to the marine boundary troposphere where it is known to participate in ozone chemistry via photochemical and catalytic pathways. Until quite recently, a limited number of studies existed (compared to other marine volatile organic compounds (VOCs)), mainly due to the analytical challenge(s) presented by the low environmental mixing ratios. In this work we detail the development of a simplified, cost effective method to detect and quantify bromoform in environmental air samples. Air samples (1.5 L) were preconcentrated onto a precooled adsorbent (Carbopack X/Carboxen 1016) trap. These samples were injected by means of rapid thermal desorption for separation and detection by GC-ECD. The system was calibrated by means of a custom-built permeation oven. A linear system response was achieved, having a detection limit of 0.73 ± 0.09 ppt. A range of environmental samples was analysed to demonstrate the ability of the technique to separate and identify bromoform from air samples. The results showed that bromoform concentrations typically averaged 24.7 ± 17.3 ppt in marine air samples, 68.5 ± 26.3 ppt in Cape Town urban air samples and 33.9 ± 40.5 ppt in simulated biomass burning plumes (SBBP).
Efficiency of Silver Impregnated Porous Pot (SIPP) filters for production of clean potable water.	The Silver Impregnated Porous Pot (SIPP) filter is a product of the Tshwane University of Technology manufactured for the production of safe drinking water at a household (home) level. Two SIPP devices were assessed for the reduction efficiency of chemical contaminants such as calcium, magnesium, iron, arsenic, fluorides and total organic carbon (TOC) as well as microbial contaminants from environmental samples. Turbidity change after filtration, together with correlation between chlorophyll a in the feed water and SIPP's flow rates were also evaluated in order to give comprehensive guidelines on the quality of intake water that could be filtered through the filter without causing a significant decrease in flow rate. The SIPP filters removed contaminants from environmental water samples as follows: 70% to 92% iron, 36% to 68% calcium, 42% to 82% arsenic, 39% to 98% magnesium, 39% to 95% fluorides, 12% to 35% TOC and 45% to 82% turbidity. The SIPP filters had initial flow rates of 1 L/h to 4 L/h but the flow rates dropped to 0.5 L/h with an increase in cumulative volume of intake water as the filter was used. Turbidity and chemical contaminant reduction rates decreased with accumulating volume of intake water but the filter removed Ca, Fe and Mg to levels that comply with the South African National Standards (SANS 241) and the World Health Organization (WHO) guideline values. However, the SIPP filters cannot produce enough water to satisfy the daily drinking water requirement of a typical household (25 L/p·d). Chlorophyll a was associated with a decrease in the flow rate through the SIPP filters.
Current status of antibiograms of Listeria ivanovii and Enterobacter cloacae isolated from ready-to-eat foods in Alice, South Africa.	This study assessed the antimicrobial susceptibility of 51 Listeria ivanovii and 33 Enterobacter cloacae strains isolated from various ready-to-eat foods sold in Alice, South Africa. Isolates were identified using standard microbiological tests and further confirmed using API 20E and API Listeria kits. The disc diffusion technique was used to screen for antimicrobial susceptibility against 15 antimicrobials; minimum inhibitory concentration of five antibiotics was determined by the broth dilution method. All the strains of E. cloacae (100%) and 96% of L. ivanovii isolates were resistant to at least four or more of the antibiotics; nineteen antibiotypes were obtained based on the antibiotics used in the study. Antibiotype A5: AR PGR VAR ER APR was predominant in both L. ivanovii (23.5%) and E. cloacae (57.5%) isolates. Marked susceptibility of Listeria ivanovii was observed against chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, streptomycin and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (100%) each while E. cloacae registered 100% susceptibility to ciprofloxacin only. Various percentages of susceptibility was reported to chloramphenicol and gentamicin (91%) each, nalidixic acid (97%) and streptomycin (94%). The MIC(90 )ranged from 0.004-7.5 µg/mL( )with E. cloacae being the most susceptible organism. The study demonstrated the presence of multi-resistant strains of bacteria in ready-to-eat-foods and speculates that these foods could serve as important vehicles transmitting multi-resistant bacteria to humans.
Socio-environmental factors associated with self-rated oral health in South Africa: a multilevel effects model.	This study examined the influence of the social context in which people live on self-ratings of their oral health.
Quantitative variations of intracellular microcystin-LR, -RR and -YR in samples collected from four locations in Hartbeespoort Dam in North West Province (South Africa) during the 2010/2011 summer season.	The Hartbeespoort (HBP) Dam is a reservoir used for agricultural, domestic supply of raw potable water and recreational activities in South Africa's North-West Province. Eutrophication and cyanobacterial blooms have long been a cause of water-quality problems in this reservoir. The most prevalent bloom-forming species is Microcystis aeruginosa, often producing the toxin microcystin, a hepatotoxin which can negatively impact aquatic animal and human health, and poses a problem for potable water supply. Algal samples were collected monthly from four pre-determined sites in the dam during the summer months (December 2010-March 2011). Intracellular microcystins (MCs) were extracted using SPE C(18)cartridges, followed by separation, identification and quantification using LC-ESI-MS techniques. Quantitative variation studies of MCs were conducted with respect to MC congener isolated, sampling site and month. Three main MC congeners (MC-RR, -LR and-YR) were isolated, identified and quantified. In addition, three minor MCs (MC-WR, MC-(H(4))YR and (D-Asp(3), Dha(7))MC-RR were also identified, but were not quantified. The MC dominance followed the order MC-RR>MC-LR>MC-YR across all sites and time. The maximum and minimum concentrations were 268 µg/g and 0.14 µg/g DW for MC-RR and MC-YR, respectively, of the total MCs quantified from this study. One-way ANOVA showed that there were no significant differences between average MC concentrations recorded across months (P = 0.62), there was, however, a marginally-significant difference in concentrations among MC congeners (P = 0.06). ANCOVA revealed a highly significant interaction between sites and MC congeners on MC concentration (P < 0.001).
An attempt at quantifying factors that affect efficiency in the management of solid waste produced by commercial businesses in the city of Tshwane, South Africa.	The objective was to investigate factors that affect the efficient management of solid waste produced by commercial businesses operating in the city of Pretoria, South Africa.
"Proof-of-concept" evaluation of an automated sputum smear microscopy system for tuberculosis diagnosis.	"TBDx" is an innovative smear microscopy system that automatically loads slides onto a microscope, focuses and digitally captures images and then classifies smears as positive or negative using computerised algorithms.
"What is killing me most": chronic pain and the need for palliative care in the Eastern Cape, South Africa.	Palliative care and the provision of pain relief medicine are essential components of health care, yet little research has been conducted on access to pain medicine in rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa. The objective of this study was to examine patient experiences and health care provider attitudes towards chronic pain and palliative care in Eastern Cape Province, South Africa. The study used a mixed-methods approach to evaluate experience of chronic pain in a district hospital and associated clinics. Questionnaires and in-depth interviews were conducted with 45 current and former patients receiving care and 26 health care providers. Forty-six percent (n = 19) of patients rated their pain in the last month as severe. Thirty-nine percent (n = 17) of individuals stated that they had never been provided with an explanation for the cause of their pain. Multiple regression analysis found that being female, not having received a social welfare grant, and not having received an explanation for the cause of pain were associated with higher ratings of pain (P < .10 for each variable). Factors inhibiting the provision of palliative care included insufficient access and availability of pain medication and providers' association of palliative care with end-of-life care. Adequate pain relief is often deprioritized in a busy health care setting. Ensuring patients receive sufficient relief for their pain requires interventions at clinical and policy levels, including the provision of needed pain medication and training in palliative care for all providers.
Heterorhabditis noenieputensis n. sp. (Rhabditida: Heterorhabditidae), a new entomopathogenic nematode from South Africa.	A new entomopathogenic nematode in the genus Heterorhabditis is described from South Africa, from two singular isolates found 1000 km from each other, from beneath a fig tree and in a citrus orchard, respectively. Morphological and molecular studies indicate both isolates to be the same and a new undescribed Heterorhabditis species. Comparison of sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA and the D2D3 region of the 28S rDNA gene with available sequences of other described species within the genus, indicate the two isolates as a new species. Phylogenetic analysis of the sequence data concerned placed the new species, H. noenieputensis n. sp., closest to H. indica and H. gerrardi in the indica-group. The new species, H. noenieputensis n. sp., is distinguished from other species in the genus by a combination of several morphological traits of the males and the infective juveniles (IJs). The new species differs from all other species previously described, as regards the body length of the IJs, except for H. indica and H. taysearae, in which the IJ is smaller. The IJ also differs from that of H. indica in the length of the oesophagus, the body diameter, the length of the tail and the E%. In addition, males of H. noenieputensis n. sp. differ from their closest relative, H. indica, in the position of the excretory pore, SW% and D%; and from H. gerrardi in the length of the oesophagus and SW%. The seventh pair of genital papillae of H. noenieputensis n. sp. are normally developed, while for H. indica they are often branched or swollen at the base, while 8 and 9 are usually absent in both species.
Paradiplozoon ichthyoxanthon n. sp. (Monogenea: Diplozoidae) from Labeobarbus aeneus (Cyprinidae) in the Vaal River, South Africa.	A new species, Paradiplozoon ichthyoxanthon (Monogenea: Diplozoidae) is described from the gills of Labeobarbus aeneus (Cyprinidae) in the Vaal Dam and Vaal River Barrage in the Vaal River, South Africa. This species is the first in this genus from southern Africa; Paradiplozoon aegtyptense and Paradiplozoon ghanense have been described from northern Africa. The new species differs from all other Paradiplozoon species on the basis of the combination of morphological characteristics, namely disk-like haptor, eggs without filaments, clamp and central hook morphology and size of specimens. The species description is accompanied by a description of the reproductive organs. The internal transcribed spacer of the ribosomal gene (ITS2) was studied and the South African individuals formed a distinct clade, supporting the establishment of a new species.
Professional confidence: conceptions held by novice occupational therapists in South Africa.	This study aimed to explore how novice occupational therapists conceptualized professional confidence. Professional confidence is a dynamic personal belief that matures over time. It is closely linked to both competence and professional identity ensuring fitness for practice. Although professional confidence has been defined and a number of its attributes have been identified, how practitioners understand or conceptualize the phenomenon is not clearly understood. Eight novice occupational therapists undertaking their community service year in South Africa during 2011 participated in the study. Data, collected during semi-structured interviews, were analyzed using phenomenographic methodology. From the participant's descriptions, three qualitatively different ways of understanding professional confidence emerged from the data, namely knowing as an occupational therapist, believing you are an occupational therapist and being an occupational therapist. The outcome space was also described. The study did not purport to gauge whether the novice therapists were in fact confident. As professional confidence is a maturing self-belief, the findings are limited to novice occupational therapists. The findings contribute to a growing understanding of professional confidence in occupational therapy. Further research is needed in terms of what informs the conceptions held by novice therapists and how professional confidence can be assessed in graduates on completion of their educational programme.
Pathways for Neoarchean pyrite formation constrained by mass-independent sulfur isotopes.	It is generally thought that the sulfate reduction metabolism is ancient and would have been established well before the Neoarchean. It is puzzling, therefore, that the sulfur isotope record of the Neoarchean is characterized by a signal of atmospheric mass-independent chemistry rather than a strong overprint by sulfate reducers. Here, we present a study of the four sulfur isotopes obtained using secondary ion MS that seeks to reconcile a number of features seen in the Neoarchean sulfur isotope record. We suggest that Neoarchean ocean basins had two coexisting, significantly sized sulfur pools and that the pathways forming pyrite precursors played an important role in establishing how the isotopic characteristics of each of these pools was transferred to the sedimentary rock record. One of these pools is suggested to be a soluble (sulfate) pool, and the other pool (atmospherically derived elemental sulfur) is suggested to be largely insoluble and unreactive until it reacts with hydrogen sulfide. We suggest that the relative contributions of these pools to the formation of pyrite depend on both the accumulation of the insoluble pool and the rate of sulfide production in the pyrite-forming environments. We also suggest that the existence of a significant nonsulfate pool of reactive sulfur has masked isotopic evidence for the widespread activity of sulfate reducers in the rock record. 
Association of the ENPP1 rs997509 polymorphism with obesity in South African mixed ancestry learners.	The Ectonucleotide Pyrophosphatase Phosphodiesterasel (ENPP1) polymorphisms have been associated with metabolic traits. There is no data on the effect of ENPP1 in South African children or adults.
Depression, disability and functional status among community-dwelling older adults in South Africa: evidence from the first South African National Income Dynamics Study.	This study examined the relationship between depression and functional status among a community-dwelling older population of 65 years and older in South Africa.
Associations of linear growth and relative weight gain during early life with adult health and human capital in countries of low and middle income: findings from five birth cohort studies.	Fast weight gain and linear growth in children in low-income and middle-income countries are associated with enhanced survival and improved cognitive development, but might increase risk of obesity and related adult cardiometabolic diseases. We investigated how linear growth and relative weight gain during infancy and childhood are related to health and human capital outcomes in young adults.
A novel approach in herbal quality control using hyperspectral imaging: discriminating between Sceletium tortuosum and Sceletium crassicaule.	Sceletium tortuosum is the most sought after species of the genus Sceletium and is commonly included in commercial products for the treatment of psychiatric conditions and neurodegenerative diseases. However, this species exhibits several morphological and phytochemical similarities to S. crassicaule.
Prevention and detection of prostate cancer: a pilot intervention in a resource--poor South African community.	Prostate cancer is a global health problem strongly linked to the Western lifestyle and its health risks. South Africa, like many African countries, has no population-based screening for this disease.
Burkholderia rhynchosiae sp. nov., isolated from Rhynchosia ferulifolia root nodules.	Two strains of Gram-stain-negative, rod-shaped bacteria were isolated from root nodules of the South African legume Rhynchosia ferulifolia and authenticated on this host. Based on phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene, strains WSM3930 and WSM3937(T) belonged to the genus Burkholderia, with the highest degree of sequence similarity to Burkholderia terricola (98.84 %). Additionally, the housekeeping genes gyrB and recA were analysed since 16S rRNA gene sequences are highly similar between closely related species of the genus Burkholderia. The results obtained for both housekeeping genes, gyrB and recA, showed the highest degree of sequence similarity of the novel strains towards Burkholderia caledonica LMG 19076(T) (94.2 % and 94.5 %, respectively). Chemotaxonomic data, including fatty acid profiles and respiratory quinone data supported the assignment of strains WSM3930 and WSM3937(T) to the genus Burkholderia. DNA-DNA hybridizations, and physiological and biochemical tests allowed genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of strains WSM3930 and WSM3937(T) from the most closely related species of the genus Burkholderia with validly published names. We conclude, therefore, that these strains represent a novel species for which the name Burkholderia rhynchosiae sp. nov. is proposed, with strain WSM3937(T) ( = LMG 27174(T) = HAMBI 3354(T)) as the type strain. 
Burkholderia sprentiae sp. nov., isolated from Lebeckia ambigua root nodules.	Seven Gram-stain-negative, rod-shaped bacteria were isolated from Lebeckia ambigua root nodules and authenticated on this host. Based on the 16S rRNA gene phylogeny, they were shown to belong to the genus Burkholderia, with the representative strain WSM5005(T) being most closely related to Burkholderia tuberum (98.08 % sequence similarity). Additionally, these strains formed a distinct group in phylogenetic trees based on the housekeeping genes gyrB and recA. Chemotaxonomic data including fatty acid profiles and analysis of respiratory quinones supported the assignment of the strains to the genus Burkholderia. Results of DNA-DNA hybridizations, and physiological and biochemical tests allowed genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of our strains from the closest species of the genus Burkholderia with a validly published name. Therefore, these strains represent a novel species for which the name Burkholderia sprentiae sp. nov. (type strain WSM5005(T) = LMG 27175(T) = HAMBI 3357(T)) is proposed. 
Cytomegalovirus viraemia in HIV exposed and infected infants: prevalence and clinical utility for diagnosing CMV pneumonia.	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is an important pathogen in HIV exposed infants with pneumonia. However, the diagnosis of HCMV pneumonia in this setting is challenging due to limited access to bronchoscopy, lung biopsy and direct sampling of the lower respiratory tract. HCMV viraemia is more accessible, but their diagnostic performance in this context has not been studied.
Inferring wavelength dependence of AOD and Ångström exponent over a sub-tropical station in South Africa using AERONET data: influence of meteorology, long-range transport and curvature effect.	Aerosol optical properties over a southern sub-tropical site Skukuza, South Africa were studied to determine the variability of the aerosol characteristics using CIMEL Sunphotometer data as part of the AErosol RObotic NETwork (AERONET) from December 2005 to November 2006. Aerosol optical depth (AOD), Ångström exponent (α), and columnar water vapor (CWV) data were collected, analyzed, and compiled. Participating in this network provided a unique opportunity for understanding the sources of aerosols affecting the atmosphere of South Africa (SA) and the regional radiation budget. The meteorological patterns significantly (p<0.05) influenced the amount and size distribution of the aerosols. Results showed that seasonal variation of AOD at 500 nm (AOD500) over the observation site were characterized by low values (0.10-0.13) in autumn, moderate values (0.14-0.16) in summer and winter seasons, and high to very high values (0.18-0.40) during the spring, with an overall mean value of 0.18±0.12. Ångström exponent α(440-870), varied from 0.5 to 2.89, with significant (p<0.0001) seasonal variability. CWV showed a strong annual cycle with maximum values in the summer and autumn seasons. The relationship between AOD, Ångström exponent (α), and CWV showed a strong dependence (p<0.0001) of α on AOD and CWV, while there was no significant correlation between AOD and CWV. Investigation of the adequacy of the simple use of the spectral AOD and Ångström exponent data was used in deriving the curvature (a2) showed to obtain information for determining the aerosol-particle size. The negative a2 values are characterized by aerosol-size dominated by fine-mode (0.1-1 μm), while the positive curvatures indicate abundance of coarse particles (>1 μm). Trajectory cluster analyses revealed that the air masses during the autumn and winter seasons have longer advection pathways, passing over the ocean and continent. This is reflected in the aerosol properties that are derived from the ocean, desert, and anthropogenic activities that include biomass burning and industrial pollution.
Cytomegaloviral retinitis-related retinal detachment: outcomes following vitrectomy in the developing world.	The purpose of this study is to describe the functional and anatomical outcomes of cytomegaloviral retinitis (CMVR) patients undergoing vitrectomy for retinal detachment (RD) in South Africa. In this retrospective case series, CMVR diagnoses were based on clinical examination alone. All vitrectomies were performed by a single surgeon. Main outcome measures were visual acuity (VA) and retinal re-attachment success rate. Thirty-nine patients (43 eyes) were followed up from the time of RD diagnosis for a mean 19.3 months ± 13.8 (standard deviation). Successful anatomical re-attachment was achieved in 38 (88 %) eyes. Silicone oil was used as initial tamponade in 39 eyes, with C3F8 being used in the remaining four (9 %) eyes with ≤2 small retinal breaks. The presence of high-grade proliferative vitreoretinopathy (n = 11 eyes, 26 %) was not associated with a greater risk of re-detachment (p = 0.24, Fisher's exact test). Functional outcomes were limited, with an overall rate of legal blindness (≤6/60) from the time of RD diagnosis of 0.58/eye year. Final VA strongly correlated with VA at the time of RD diagnosis (p = 0.018, paired t test). Two eyes (5 %) lost perception of light during the study period. Severe visual impairment is likely following CMVR-related RD in a developing world healthcare setting, despite successful anatomical re-attachment in most cases.
Geographical differences associated with single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in nine gene targets among resistant clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis.	Alternative diagnostic methods, such as sequence-based techniques, are necessary for increasing the proportion of tuberculosis cases tested for drug resistance. Despite the abundance of data on drug resistance, isolates can display phenotypic resistance but lack any distinguishable markers. Furthermore, because resistance-conferring mutations develop under antibiotic pressure, different drug regimens could favor unique single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in different geographical regions. A total of 407 isolates were collected from four geographical regions with a high prevalence of drug-resistant tuberculosis (India, Moldova, the Philippines, and South Africa). The "hot spot" or promoter sequences of nine genes (rpoB, gyrA, gyrB, katG, inhA promoter, ahpC promoter, eis promoter, rrs, and tlyA) associated with resistance to four types of antibiotics (rifampin, isoniazid, fluoroquinolones, and aminoglycosides) were analyzed for markers. Four genes contributed largely to resistance (rpoB, gyrA, rrs, and katG), two genes contributed moderately to resistance (the eis and inhA promoters), and three genes contributed little or no resistance (gyrB, tlyA, and the ahpC promoter) in clinical isolates. Several geographical differences were found, including a double mutation in rpoB found in 37.1% of isolates from South Africa, the C→T mutation at position -12 of the eis promoter found exclusively in 60.6% of isolates from Moldova, and the G→A mutation at position -46 of the ahpC promoter found only in India. These differences in polymorphism frequencies emphasize the uniqueness of isolates found in different geographical regions. The inclusion of several genes provided a moderate increase in sensitivity, and elimination of the examination of other genes might increase efficiency. 
Preventing diabetes blindness: cost effectiveness of a screening programme using digital non-mydriatic fundus photography for diabetic retinopathy in a primary health care setting in South Africa.	South Africa like many other developing countries is experiencing an epidemiologic transition with a marked increase in the non-communicable disease (NCD) burden. Diabetic retinopathy is the most common cause of incidental blindness in adults. A screening programme using a mobile fundal camera in a primary care setting has been shown to be effective in the country. Information on affordability and cost is essential for policymakers to consider its adoption.
Verification of serum reference intervals for free light chains in a local South African population.	Monoclonal serum free light chain measurements are used to follow up and manage patients with monoclonal gammopathies, and abnormal serum free light chain ratios are associated with risk of progression in certain diseases. We aimed to validate the reference intervals in our population. Reference intervals for κ and λ free light chains were established on 120 healthy adults. Creatinine levels were measured to exclude renal dysfunction and serum protein electrophoresis was performed. All creatinine values were within normal limits. After exclusion of subjects with abnormal serum protein electrophoreses, 113 subjects were available for analysis. The 95% reference interval was 6.3-20.6 mg/L for κ free light chains, 8.7-25.9 mg/L for λ free light chains and 0.46-1.23 for free light chain ratio. Most of the values fell within the manufacturer's recommended limits and therefore could be used for our population. 
Transmission of tuberculosis in resource-limited settings.	Unrecognized transmission is a major contributor to ongoing TB epidemics in high-burden, resource-constrained settings. Limitations in diagnosis, treatment, and infection control in health-care and community settings allow for continued transmission of drug-sensitive and drug-resistant TB, particularly in regions of high HIV prevalence. Health-care facilities are common sites of TB transmission. Improved implementation of infection control practices appropriate for the local setting and in combination, has been associated with reduced transmission. Community settings account for the majority of TB transmission and deserve increased focus. Strengthening and intensifying existing high-yield strategies, including household contact tracing, can reduce onward TB transmission. Recent studies documenting high transmission risk community sites and strategies for community-based intensive case finding hold promise for feasible, effective transmission reduction. Infection control in community settings has been neglected and requires urgent attention. Developing and implementing improved strategies for decreasing transmission to children, within prisons and of drug-resistant TB are needed. 
Urban infrastructure and natural resource flows: evidence from Cape Town.	The current economic development trajectory is fundamentally unsustainable. However, decoupling economic growth from excessive natural resource consumption can be adopted as a means to deviate from this current trajectory. Decoupling enables economic growth and human development through non-material growth, without the environmental and social casualties of the incumbent model. Cities are the current and future context for socio development as well as a significant part of the cause and solution to sustainability challenges. Cities account for the majority of production and consumption activities leading to environmental degradation, and they are also the primary location for economic, institutional, and human capital. Innovative responses to global challenges generally emerge during the interaction between these kinds of capital. This paper presents the case of three of Cape Town's resource flows namely; electricity, water and solid waste, as mediated by networked urban infrastructure, to demonstrate the possibility of urban scale decoupling. Conclusions indicate that while decoupling can occur at the city scale, it is unlikely to be sufficient for the realization of sustainable urban development. Purposive interventions are therefore critical for successful, sustainable urban transitions. 
A mismatch between aortic pulse pressure and pulse wave velocity predicts advanced peripheral arterial disease.	To determine whether increases in central aortic pulse pressure (PPc), but decreases in carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) predict the presence of advanced peripheral arterial disease (PAD).
Derivation of South African water quality guidelines for Roundup(®) using species sensitivity distribution.	Glyphosate-based herbicides are among the leading products used in South Africa to control weeds and invading alien plant species. Although these herbicides ultimately find their way into aquatic ecosystems, South Africa has no water quality guideline based on indigenous species to protect the country's aquatic biota against these biocides. In this study, South African water quality guidelines (SAWQGs) for Roundup(®) based on species sensitivity distribution (SSD) using indigenous aquatic biota were developed. Short-term and long-term toxicity tests were conducted with eight different aquatic species belonging to five different taxonomic groups. Static non-renewal experimental methods were employed for short-term lethal tests (≤4 days), and static renewal for long-term sublethal tests (≥4 days ≤21 days). LC50 values for animal exposure and EC50 values for algae were calculated using probit analysis and linear regression of transformed herbicide concentration as natural logarithm data against percentage growth inhibition, respectively. No effect concentration (NEC) was determined based on the dynamic energy budget model, using survival data. The LC50, EC50 and NEC values were used to develop species sensitivity distribution (SSD) concentrations for Roundup(®). Based on the SSD concentrations, the short-term and long-term SAWQGs for Roundup(®) were derived as 0.250 (0.106-0.589) mg/L, and 0.002 (0.000-0.021) mg/L, respectively. These WQGs may be useful in protecting South African aquatic life against transient or long-term exposure to glyphosate-based chemicals as part of integrated water resources management. 
Application of FORDISC 3.0 to explore differences among crania of North American and South African blacks and whites.	Using discriminant function analysis, classification accuracies for ancestry and sex in white and black South Africans were compared using North American (FDB), African groups in Howells (HDB), and South African (SADB) databases in FORDISC 3.0. (FD3). Twenty-four standard linear measures were collected from a total of 86 black and 101 white crania obtained from the Pretoria Bone Collection. White and black South Africans classified 73% correctly in FDB, 55% correctly in HDB, and 71% correctly in SADB. The percentage of atypical cases was higher with FDB than SADB. In all three databases, misclassification occurred more with sex than ancestry revealing differences in sexual dimorphism between population groups. Broad ancestral differences may explain low misclassification rates for ancestry. FD3, with a modern South African reference sample, can assist South African anthropologists to standardize methodology and to justify procedures for estimating ancestry.
The national portfolio for postgraduate family medicine training in South Africa: a descriptive study of acceptability, educational impact, and usefulness for assessment.	Since 2007 a portfolio of learning has become a requirement for assessment of postgraduate family medicine training by the Colleges of Medicine of South Africa. A uniform portfolio of learning has been developed and content validity established among the eight postgraduate programmes. The aim of this study was to investigate the portfolio's acceptability, educational impact, and perceived usefulness for assessment of competence.
Comparison of laboratory costs of rapid molecular tests and conventional diagnostics for detection of tuberculosis and drug-resistant tuberculosis in South Africa.	The World Health Organization has endorsed the use of molecular methods for the detection of TB and drug-resistant TB as a rapid alternative to culture-based systems. In South Africa, the Xpert MTB/Rif assay and the GenoType MTBDRplus have been implemented into reference laboratories for diagnosis of TB and drug-resistance, but their costs have not been fully elucidated.
Honeybees prefer warmer nectar and less viscous nectar, regardless of sugar concentration.	The internal temperature of flowers may be higher than air temperature, and warmer nectar could offer energetic advantages for honeybee thermoregulation, as well as being easier to drink owing to its lower viscosity. We investigated the responses of Apis mellifera scutellata (10 colonies) to warmed 10% w/w sucrose solutions, maintained at 20-35°C, independent of low air temperatures, and to 20% w/w sucrose solutions with the viscosity increased by the addition of the inert polysaccharide Tylose (up to the equivalent of 34.5% sucrose). Honeybee crop loads increased with nectar temperature, as did the total consumption of sucrose solutions over 2 h by all bees visiting the feeders. In addition, the preference of marked honeybees shifted towards higher nectar temperatures with successive feeder visits. Crop loads were inversely proportional to the viscosity of the artificial nectar, as was the total consumption of sucrose solutions over 2 h. Marked honeybees avoided higher nectar viscosities with successive feeder visits. Bees thus showed strong preferences for both warmer and less viscous nectar, independent of changes in its sugar concentration. Bees may benefit from foraging on nectars that are warmer than air temperature for two reasons that are not mutually exclusive: reduced thermoregulatory costs and faster ingestion times due to the lower viscosity. 
Screening and brief interventions for hazardous and harmful alcohol use among patients with active tuberculosis attending primary public care clinics in South Africa: results from a cluster randomized controlled trial.	In 2008 the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that South Africa had the highest tuberculosis (TB) incidence in the world. This high incidence rate is linked to a number of factors, including HIV co-infection and alcohol use disorders. The diagnosis and treatment package for TB and HIV co-infection is relatively well established in South Africa. However, because alcohol use disorders may present more insidiously, making it difficult to diagnose, those patients with active TB and misusing alcohol are not easily cured from TB. With this in mind, the primary purpose of this cluster randomized controlled trial was to provide screening for alcohol misuse and to test the effectiveness of brief interventions in reducing alcohol intake in those patients with active TB found to be misusing alcohol in primary public health care clinics in three districts in South Africa.
Making wider use of the world's most widely used vaccine: Bacille Calmette-Guerin revaccination reconsidered.	Approximately 100 million newborn children receive Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) annually, because vaccination is consistently protective against childhood tuberculous meningitis and miliary TB. By contrast, BCG efficacy against pulmonary TB in children and adults is highly variable, ranging from 0% to 80%, though it tends to be higher in individuals who have no detectable prior exposure to mycobacterial infections, as judged by the absence of delayed-type hypersensitivity response (a negative tuberculin skin test, TST). The duration of protection against pulmonary TB is also variable, but lasts about 10 years on average. These observations raise the possibility that BCG revaccination, following primary vaccination in infancy, could be efficacious among TST-negative adolescents as they move into adulthood, the period of highest risk for pulmonary disease. To inform continuing debate about revaccination, this paper assesses the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of revaccinating adolescents in a setting with intense transmission-Cape Town, South Africa. For a cost of revaccination in the range US$1-10 per person, and vaccine efficacy between 10% and 80% with protection for 10 years, the incremental cost per year of healthy life recovered (disability-adjusted life years, DALY) in the vaccinated population lies between US$116 and US$9237. The intervention is about twice as cost-effective when allowing for the extra benefits of preventing transmission, with costs per DALY recovered in the range US$52-$4540. At 80% efficacy, revaccination averted 17% of cases. Under the scenarios investigated, BCG revaccination is cost-effective against international benchmarks, though not highly effective. Cost-effectiveness ratios would be more favourable if we also allow for TB cases averted by preventing transmission to HIV-positive people, for the protection of HIV-negative people who later acquire HIV infection, for the possible non-specific benefits of BCG, for the fact that some adolescents would receive BCG for the first time, and for cost sharing when BCG is integrated into an adolescent immunization programme. These findings suggest, subject to further evaluation, that BCG revaccination could be cost-effective in some settings. 
Morbidity from unsafe termination of pregnancy in South Africa.	The Termination of Pregnancy (TOP) Act in South Africa (SA) allows women to request TOP for social reasons. A retrospective record review was done on all (85) women who were admitted with complications arising from TOP over a 1-year period in 2008, at the Charlottee Maxeke Johannesburg Academic (CMJA) Hospital, SA. The demography, methods and place of TOP, presenting complications and final management was discussed. Morbidity such as severe blood loss (39%), sepsis (26%), multiple organ dysfunctions (4%) and organ injuries (5%) were observed. A correct guideline for TOP was followed in only 33% of women. Self-induced TOP remained common practice. There is a need for accelerated training among healthcare workers providing TOP in SA to prevent this costly and preventable maternal morbidity. 
Sexual risk after HIV diagnosis: a comparison of pre-ART individuals with CD4>500 cells/µl and ART-eligible individuals in a HIV treatment and care programme in rural KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.	Little is known about people diagnosed as HIV-positive who access HIV care early in their disease. In pre-ART studies published to date, only a minority of the participants have CD4>500 cells/µl.
Content analysis of television food advertisements aimed at adults and children in South Africa.	To determine the frequency and content of food-related television (TV) advertisements shown on South African TV.
Guidelines to encourage the adoption and meaningful use of health information technologies in the South African healthcare landscape.	There are various benefits associated with the adoption and meaningful use of health information technologies (HITs) in the healthcare sector. Despite these benefits, the South African healthcare sector has been slow to adopt HITs such as electronic record systems. The purpose of this research project was to formulate guidelines to encourage the adoption and meaningful use of HITs in the South African healthcare landscape. A three-round Delphi study was conducted to identify factors that should be addressed to encourage the adoption and meaningful use of HITs in the South African healthcare landscape. The Delphi panel included 21 participants that were considered to be suitably knowledgeable regarding the area under consideration. Consensus was reached on 42 factors that were rated as having a direct to significant impact on the adoption and meaningful use of HITs in the South African context. These factors were further analysed to formulate 20 guidelines that indicate that there are a wide range of factors that would have to be addressed involving a multitude of stakeholders. 
Citizens and personal health records - the case of Nelson Mandela Bay.	This paper explores citizen attitudes towards personal health records. The study was conducted in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa. A cross-sectional design was used and structured questionnaires administered by data collectors. Most respondents (90%) believed it to be important to extremely important for their healthcare provider to have their complete medical records. Less than half of them (42%), however, believed that the healthcare provider did have their complete medical record available to them. Nevertheless, 69% do not keep a medical record as a way to address this concern. Most of them (84%) were not aware of the existence of electronic tools to capture a personal health record prior to participating in the survey. Concerns relating to the use of online PHRs were identified as privacy (58%), lack of time (27%) and a disinterest in computers (22%). It was found that the existence of a medical chronic condition is a strong predictor of keeping a medical record (albeit mostly in paper-based format). 
Human factors affecting the quality of routinely collected data in South Africa.	Evaluations that have looked at the people aspect of the health information system in South Africa have only focused on the availability of human resources and not on competence or other behavioural factors. Using the Performance of Routine Information System Management (PRISM) tool that assumes relationships between technical, behavioural and organizational determinants of the routine information processes and performance, this paper highlights some behavioural factors affecting the quality of routinely collected data in South Africa. In the context of monitoring maternal and child health programmes, data were collected from 161 health information personnel in 58 health facilities and 2 district offices from 2 conveniently sampled health districts. A self-administered questionnaire was used to assess confidence and competence levels of routine health information system (RHIS) tasks, problem solving anddata quality checking skills, and motivation. The findings suggest that 64% of the respondents have poor numerical skills and limited statistical and data quality checking skills. While the average confidence levels at performing RHIS tasks is 69%, only 22% actually displayed competence above 50%. Personnel appear to be reasonably motivated but there is considerable deficiency in their competency to interpret and use data. This may undermine the quality and utility of the RHIS. 
Patients prefer electronic medical records - fact or fiction?	Incomplete patient medical history compromises the quality of care provided to a patient while well-kept, adequate patient medical records are central to the provision of good quality of care. According to research, patients have the right to contribute to decision-making affecting their health. Hence, the researchers investigated their views regarding a paper-based system and an electronic medical record (EMR). An explorative approach was used in conducting a survey within selected general practices in the Nelson Mandela Metropole. The majority of participants thought that the use of a paper-based system had no negative impact on their health. Participants expressed concerns relating to the confidentiality of their medical records with both storage mediums. The majority of participants indicated they prefer their GP to computerise their consultation details. The main objective of the research on which this poster is based was to investigate the storage medium of preference for patients and the reasons for their preference. Overall, 48% of the 85 participants selected EMRs as their preferred storage medium and the reasons for their preference were also uncovered. 
Comparison of procedure coding systems for level 1 and 2 hospitals in South Africa.	The ability of three procedure coding systems to reflect the procedure concepts extracted from patient records from six hospitals was compared, in order to inform decision making about a procedure coding standard for South Africa. A convenience sample of 126 procedure concepts was extracted from patient records at three level 1 hospitals and three level 2 hospitals. Each procedure concept was coded using ICPC-2, ICD-9-CM, and CCSA-2001. The extent to which each code assigned actually reflected the procedure concept was evaluated (between 'no match' and 'complete match'). For the study sample, CCSA-2001 was found to reflect the procedure concepts most completely, followed by ICD-9-CM and then ICPC-2. In practice, decision making about procedure coding standards would depend on multiple factors in addition to coding accuracy. 
Piloting a national laboratory electronic programme status reporting system.	The NHLS performs close to 4 million CD4 tests per annum for the public sector in South Africa through a network of 60 CD4 testing laboratories. CD4 laboratory data provides an assessment of the number of patients on ART and HIV-positive patients in the pre-ART wellness programs. This study aims to develop a laboratory based Comprehensive Care, Management and Treatment of HIV and AIDS (CCMT) programme status reporting system for CD4 testing at three health facilities in the Ekurhuleni health district using a newly developed CCMT request form, the Laboratory Information System (LIMS) and Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW). The study will generate monitoring and evaluation data to assist in the management of health facilities through a national electronic corporate data warehouse. 
Exploring mental health adjustment of children post sexual assault in South Africa.	Large numbers of children are affected by child sexual abuse in South Africa. This study aimed to assess psychological adjustment of children post sexual assault. In-depth, semistructured interviews were conducted with caretakers, and structured interviews using mental health assessment screening tools were given to children at three intervals over a five-month period after presentation at a sexual assault center. Almost half of the children met clinical criteria for anxiety, and two-thirds met criteria for full symptom post-traumatic stress disorder two to four weeks post disclosure. With standard care, we observed some recovery; 43.3% of children still met full symptom post-traumatic stress disorder nearly six months post disclosure. Our findings indicate that current practice in South Africa does not promote adequate recovery for children.
Vibrational long-distance communication in the termites Macrotermes natalensis and Odontotermes sp.	Fungus-growing higher termites build long subterranean galleries that lead outwards from the nest to foraging sites. When soldiers are disturbed, they tend to drum with their heads against the substrate and thereby create vibrational alarm signals. The present study aimed at describing these acoustic signals, how they are elicited, produced and perceived, and how these signals propagate within the galleries and nests over long distances in two termite species of the Southern African savannah, Macrotermes natalensis and an Odontotermes sp. The signals consist of trains of pulses with a pulse repetition rate of 10-20 Hz. The galleries have physical features that promote vibrational communication and are used as channels for long-distance communication. In M. natalensis, the signal propagation velocity is ~130 m s(-1) and the signals are attenuated by ~0.4 dB per centimetre distance. Nestmates are extremely sensitive to these vibrations with a behavioural threshold amplitude of 0.012 m s(-2). Workers respond by a fast retreat into the nest and soldiers are recruited to the source of vibration. Soldiers also start to drum with a reaction time of about 0.3 s, thereby amplifying the intensity of the signal. This social long-distance communication through chains of signal-reamplifying termites results in a relatively slow propagation (1.3 m s(-1)) of the signal without decrement over distances of several metres. 
Protocols for protection of human participants: a comparison of five countries.	Research ethics protocols relating to human participants were compared across five countries, namely, Australia, Azerbaijan, Iran, the Philippines, and South Africa. These countries were considered to be geographically and culturally diverse, as well as representing both developed and developing countries. The extent to which the research participant is protected across cultures and countries was investigated, with particular focus on the use of informed consent procedures. It was argued that current ethical guidelines and practices fail to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable participants within these cultures. Informed consent mechanisms also often fail to consider cultural differences in self-concept, understanding of research methods, and power differences between researchers and participants. Discussion of these ethical challenges and recommendations for research ethics development within these cultures and countries are discussed. 
Mesoamerican origin and pre- and post-columbian expansions of the ranges of Acanthoscelides obtectus say, a cosmopolitan insect pest of the common bean.	An unprecedented global transfer of agricultural resources followed the discovery of the New World; one consequence of this process was that staple food plants of Neotropical origin, such as the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), soon expanded their ranges overseas. Yet many pests and diseases were also transported. Acanthoscelides obtectus is a cosmopolitan seed predator associated with P. vulgaris. Codispersal within the host seed seems to be an important determinant of the ability of A. obtectus to expand its range over long distances. We examined the phylogeographic structure of A. obtectus by (a) sampling three mitochondrial gene sequences (12s rRNA, 16s rRNA, and the gene that encodes cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI)) throughout most of the species' range and (b) exploring its late evolutionary history. Our findings indicate a Mesoamerican origin for the current genealogical lineages of A. obtectus. Each of the two major centers of genetic diversity of P. vulgaris (the Andes and Mesoamerica) contains a highly differentiated lineage of the bean beetle. Brazil has two additional, closely related lineages, both of which predate the Andean lineage and have the Mesoamerican lineage as their ancestor. The cosmopolitan distribution of A. obtectus has resulted from recent expansions of the two Brazilian lineages. We present additional evidence for both pre-Columbian and post-Columbian range expansions as likely events that shaped the current distribution of A. obtectus worldwide. 
Change point analysis of travel routes reveals novel insights into foraging strategies and cognitive maps of wild baboons.	Efficient space use is a critical challenge for animals relying on stationary resources. It is often difficult with purely observational methods to gain unambiguous insight into any ability of primates to manage and process spatial information. Investigating the visible signs of the decision processes underlying space use often leaves open important issues. We applied the change point test [Byrne et al. (2009). Anim Behav 77: 619-631], a statistical tool to objectively determine change points (CPs) in animal travel paths, to investigate to what degree directional changes in our study group's (Papio ursinus) dry season ranging were associated with important resources and prominent landmarks. One-third of directional changes were associated with fruit feeding, 1/3 with traveling, and 1/3 with dry matter feeding, travel feeding and with drinking. When directional changes were associated with traveling, the subsequent directional changes were likely to result in fruit feeding. Fruit feeding mostly occurred at the apex of the day journeys, while drinking, dry matter feeding, and travel feeding often occurred along straight travel segments. The majority of directional changes did not occur in clusters at distinctive locations, but at distances of more than 120 m apart from each other, many of them along prominent landmarks. We conclude that the CPs do not represent nodes or route bends of a network map. Rather, they represent (1) locations where the decision to turn back to their sleeping site was taken, and (2) locations next to important landmarks (changes of slope, car tracks) where slight adjustment of a movement direction was possible. We found no evidence for a Euclidean map and discuss our findings in the light of a network map representation of space.
Procoagulant reactivity to laboratory acute mental stress in Africans and Caucasians, and its relation to depressive symptoms: the SABPA study.	The risk of cardiovascular disease is dramatically increasing in Africans (black). The prothrombotic stress response contributes to atherothrombotic disease and is modulated by depressive symptoms. We examined coagulation reactivity to acute mental stress and its relation to psychological well-being in Africans relative to Caucasians (white). A total of 102 African and 165 Caucasian school teachers underwent the Stroop Color-Word Conflict test. Circulating levels of von Willebrand factor (VWF) antigen, fibrinogen, and D-dimer were measured before and after the Stroop. Cardiovascular reactivity measures were also obtained. All participants completed the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 and the General Health Questionnaire-28 for the assessment of depressive symptoms and total psychological distress, respectively. After controlling for covariates, resting levels of VWF, fibrinogen, and D-dimer were higher in Africans than in Caucasians (all p-values ≤0.006). Depressive symptoms and psychological distress were not significantly associated with resting coagulation measures. Stress reactivity in VWF (p<0.001) and fibrinogen (p=0.016), but not in D-dimer (p=0.27), were decreased in Africans relative to Caucasians with Africans showing greater reactivity of total peripheral resistance (p=0.017). Depressive symptoms, but not general psychological distress, were associated with greater VWF increase (p=0.029) and greater fibrinogen decrease (p=0.030) in Africans relative to Caucasians. In conclusion, Africans showed greater hypercoagulability at rest but diminished procoagulant reactivity to acute mental stress when compared with Caucasians. Ethnic differences in the vascular adrenergic stress response might partially explain this finding. Depressive symptoms were associated with exaggerated VWF reactivity in Africans relative to Caucasians. The clinical implications of these findings for Africans need further study. 
The effect of the biochemical marker soluble human leukocyte antigen G on pregnancy outcome in assisted reproductive technology--a multicenter study.	To determine whether the presence of soluble human leukocyte antigen G (sHLA-G) affects implantation and pregnancy outcomes in vitro.
A two-year history of high bone loading physical activity attenuates ethnic differences in bone strength and geometry in pre-/early pubertal children from a low-middle income country.	We examined the interplay between ethnicity and weight-bearing physical activity on the content and volumetric properties of bone in a pre- to early pubertal South African Black and White population. Sixty six children [Black boys, 10.4 (1.4)yrs, n=15; Black girls, 10.1 (1.2)yrs, n=27; White boys, 10.1 (1.1)yrs, n=7; White girls, 9.6 (1.3)yrs, n=17] reported on all their physical activities over the past two years in an interviewer administered physical activity questionnaire (PAQ). All participants underwent a whole body and site-specific DXA scan and we also assessed bone structure and estimated bone strength with pQCT. Children were classified as being either high or low bone loaders based on the cohort's median peak bone strain score estimated from the PAQ. In the low bone loading group, Black children had greater femoral neck bone mineral content (BMC) (2.9 (0.08)g) than White children (2.4 (0.11)g; p=0.05). There were no ethnic differences in the high bone loaders for femoral neck BMC. At the cortical site, the Black low bone loaders had a greater radius area (97.3 (1.3) vs 88.8 (2.6)mm(2); p=0.05) and a greater tibia total area (475.5 (8.7) vs. 397.3 (14.0)mm(2); p=0.001) and strength (1633.7 (60.1) vs. 1271.8 (98.6)mm(3); p=0.04) compared to the White low bone loaders. These measures were not different between the Black low and high bone loaders or between the Black and White high bone loaders. In conclusion, the present study shows that there may be ethnic and physical activity associations in the bone health of Black and White pre-pubertal children and further prospective studies are required to determine the possible ethnic specific response to mechanical loading. 
Development and field validation of an indicator to assess the relative mobility and risk of pesticides in the Lourens River catchment, South Africa.	A GIS based pesticide risk indicator that integrates exposure variables (i.e. pesticide application, geographic, physicochemical and crop data) and toxicity endpoints (using species sensitivity distributions) was developed to estimate the Predicted Relative Exposure (PREX) and Predicted Relative Risk (PRRI) of applied pesticides to aquatic ecosystem health in the Lourens River catchment, Western Cape, South Africa. Samples were collected weekly at five sites from the beginning of the spraying season (October) till the beginning of the rainy season (April) and were semi quantitatively analysed for relevant pesticides applied according to the local farmers spraying programme. Monitoring data indicate that physicochemical data obtained from international databases are reliable indicators of pesticide behaviour in the Western Cape of South Africa. Sensitivity analysis identified KOC as the most important parameter influencing predictions of pesticide loading derived from runoff. A comparison to monitoring data showed that the PREX successfully identified hotspot sites, gave a reasonable estimation of the relative contamination potential of different pesticides at a site and identified important routes of exposure (i.e. runoff or spray drift) of different pesticides at different sites. All pesticides detected during a monitored runoff event, were indicated as being more associated with runoff than spray drift by the PREX. The PRRI identified azinphos-methyl and chlorpyrifos as high risk pesticides towards the aquatic ecosystem. These results contribute to providing increased confidence in the use of risk indicator applications and, in particular, could lead to improved utilisation of limited resources for monitoring and management in resource constrained countries. 
Safety and immunogenicity of the HPV-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine in HIV-positive women in South Africa: a partially-blind randomised placebo-controlled study.	In developing countries, risk of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection may be increased by the high prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. We evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of the HPV-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine in HIV-infected women in South Africa. Asymptomatic HIV-positive women aged 18-25 years (N=120) were stratified by CD4⁺ T-cell count and randomised (1:1) to receive HPV-16/18 vaccine (Cervarix®; GlaxoSmithKline Vaccines) or placebo (Al[OH]3) at 0, 1 and 6 months (double-blind). HIV-negative women (N=30) received HPV-16/18 vaccine (open label). Anti-HPV-16/18 antibody and CD4⁺ T-cell responses, CD4⁺ T-cell count, HIV viral load, HIV clinical stage and safety were evaluated for 12 months. The safety and reactogenicity profile of the HPV-16/18 vaccine was comparable in HIV-positive and HIV-negative women. Irrespective of baseline HPV status, all HIV-positive and HIV-negative women who received the HPV-16/18 vaccine were seropositive for both HPV-16 and HPV-18 after the second vaccine dose (month 2) and remained seropositive for both antigens at month 12. Anti-HPV-16/18 antibody titres at month 12 remained substantially above levels associated with natural infection. The HPV-16/18 vaccine induced sustained anti-HPV-16/18 CD4⁺ T-cell responses in both HIV-positive and HIV-negative women. No impact of baseline CD4⁺ T-cell count or HIV viral load was observed on the magnitude of the immune response in HIV-positive women. In HIV-positive women, CD4⁺ T-cell count, HIV viral load and HIV clinical stage were unaffected by HPV-16/18 vaccine administration. In conclusion, the HPV-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine appears immunogenic and well-tolerated in women with HIV infection. Study ID: 107863/NCT00586339.
Impact of multi-micronutrient supplementation on growth and morbidity of HIV-infected South African children.	Poor growth, micronutrient deficiencies and episodes of diarrhea and respiratory infections occur frequently in HIV-infected children. We investigated whether multi-micronutrient supplementation would improve the growth performance and reduce the number of episodes of diarrhea and/or of respiratory symptoms in HIV-infected children. In a double-blind randomized trial, HIV-infected South African children aged 4-24 months (n = 201) were assigned to receive multi-micronutrient supplements or placebo daily for six months. The children were assessed for respiratory symptoms or diarrhea bi-weekly; weights and heights were measured monthly. In total, 121 children completed the six month follow up study period (60%). A total of 43 children died; 27 of them had received supplements. This difference in mortality was not statistically significant (p = 0.12). Weight-for-height Z-scores improved significantly (p < 0.05) among children given supplements compared with those given placebo (0.40 (0.09-0.71)) versus -0.04 (-0.39-0.31) (mean (95% CI)). Height-for-age Z-scores did not improve in both treatment groups. The number of monthly episodes of diarrhea in the placebo group (0.36 (0.26-0.46)) was higher (p = 0.09) than in the supplement group (0.25 (0.17-0.33)) and the number of monthly episodes of respiratory symptoms was significantly higher (p < 0.05) among children on placebos (1.01 (0.83-1.79)) than those on supplements (0.66 (0.52-0.80)). Multi-micronutrient supplements significantly improved wasting and reduced the number of episodes of diarrhea and respiratory symptoms. 
Deagrarianisation and forest revegetation in a biodiversity hotspot on the Wild Coast, South Africa.	Deagraianisation is a worldwide phenomenon with widespread social, ecological and economic effects yet with little consensus on the local or higher level causes. There have been contested views on the causes and consequences of deagrarianisation on South Africa's Wild Coast, which is an international biodiversity hotspot. Using GIS, household interviews and ecological sampling, we compared the perspectives of current and former cultivators as to why some have abandoned farming, whilst also tracking the uses and woody plant cover and composition of fields abandoned at different periods. The GIS analysis showed that field abandonment had been ongoing over several decades, with a decline from 12.5 % field cover in 1961 to 2.7 % in 2009. The area of forests and woodlands almost doubled in the corresponding period. There was a distinct peak in field abandonment during the time of political transition at the national level in the early 1990s. This political change led to a decrease in government support for livestock farming, which in turn resulted in reduced animal draught power at the household and community level, and hence reduced cropping. The study showed it is largely the wealthier households that have remained in arable agriculture and that the poorer households have abandoned farming. The abandoned fields show a distinct trend of increasing woody biomass and species richness with length of time since abandonment, with approximately three woody plant species added per decade. Most local respondents dislike the increases in forest and woodland extent and density because of anxiety about wild animals causing harm to crops and even humans, and the loss of an agricultural identity to livelihoods and the landscape. 
A new galloping gait in an insect.	An estimated three million insect species all walk using variations of the alternating tripod gait [1]. At any one time, these animals hold one stable triangle of legs steady while swinging the opposite triangle forward. Here, we report the discovery that three different flightless desert dung beetles use an additional gallop-like gait, which has never been described in any insect before. Like a bounding hare, the beetles propel their body forward by synchronously stepping with both middle legs and then both front legs. Surprisingly, this peculiar galloping gait delivers lower speeds than the alternating tripod gait. Why these beetles have shifted so radically away from the most widely used walking style on our planet is as yet unknown.
Healthcare provider views on the health effects of biomass fuel collection and use in rural Eastern Cape, South Africa: an ethnographic study.	Policymakers at global level recognise that household biomass use in developing countries has significant health consequences. However, it is unclear how local-level health professionals perceive and respond to such health effects. This paper which is derived from the findings of a larger study on perceptions and responses to the harmful health effects of carrying heavy firewood loads and to smoke from cooking fires is based on a study conducted in South Africa among managers of health programmes and community nurses of Qaukeni and Mhlontlo municipalities in rural Eastern Cape. Interviews and participant observations were conducted in 2009 using ethnographic grounded theory approaches. In addition to a 10-month period of ethnographic fieldwork, ten programme managers and nurses in two villages were interviewed about health patterns in the villages that they serve, their perceptions of, and responses to the health effects of carrying heavy firewood loads, and inhalation of smoke from wood and dung cooking fires, their professional qualifications and experience, their own household energy use; and observations made as they served clinic clients. Results show that these programme managers and nurses perceive the health effects of carrying heavy loads of firewood and of cooking smoke as minor. Sometimes, nurses give women symptomatic relief for musculoskeletal pain resulting from carrying heavy loads. We posit that their perceptions are derived from customary neglect of work-related health and non-communicable diseases, cultural interpretations of womanhood, limited access to relevant information, and limited interactions between health and energy sector professionals. We conclude that culturally and gender-sensitive awareness programmes are needed for local-level health professionals to effectively address health effects of biomass collection and use. This paper provides new insights into overlooked differences between globally-driven initiatives to address health effects of biomass use and local perceptions. 
Redescription of Setaria graberi Shoho in Troncy, Graber & Thal, 1976 (Nematoda: Filarioidea) based on specimens from Redunca arundinum (Bovidae) in South Africa.	The filarial onchocercid Setaria graberi Shoho in Troncy, Graber & Thal, 1976 is redescribed from the abdominal cavity of Southern reedbuck, Redunca arundinum (Boddaert), in South Africa, including illustrations and scanning electron micrographs of important morphological features. Morphometric data for this species are provided for the first time. Setaria graberi is characterised by the possession of bifid deirids, and females having a distinctly bulbous tail. The slightly raised peribuccal crown forms a dumbbell-shaped unit with the cephalic elevations in apical view; the dorsal and ventral elevations, spaced 73-115 μm apart in females and 71-93 μm in males, carry two well-separated tips each. In dorsoventral view, the cephalic elevations appear more or less rectangular with a slightly notched apex and are narrow in comparison to the width of the anterior end. They are triangular in lateral view. Four cephalic and four external labial papillae are arranged in a laterally elongated rectangle each. The species is distinguished from other Setaria Viborg, 1795 species that possess bifid deirids or occur in members of the same host genus. The presence of S. graberi in R. arundinum in South Africa constitutes a new host and geographic record.
Barriers to the delivery of diabetes care in the Middle East and South Africa: a survey of 1,082 practising physicians in five countries.	Developing countries face a high and growing burden of type 2 diabetes. We surveyed physicians in a diverse range of countries in the Middle East and Africa (Egypt, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, South Africa and Lebanon) with regard to their perceptions of barriers to type 2 diabetes care identified as potentially important in the literature and by the authors.
Elimination of HIV in South Africa through expanded access to antiretroviral therapy: a model comparison study.	Expanded access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) using universal test and treat (UTT) has been suggested as a strategy to eliminate HIV in South Africa within 7 y based on an influential mathematical modeling study. However, the underlying deterministic model was criticized widely, and other modeling studies did not always confirm the study's finding. The objective of our study is to better understand the implications of different model structures and assumptions, so as to arrive at the best possible predictions of the long-term impact of UTT and the possibility of elimination of HIV.
Cost-effectiveness of HIV treatment as prevention in serodiscordant couples.	The cost-effectiveness of early antiretroviral therapy (ART) in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in serodiscordant couples is not known. Using a computer simulation of the progression of HIV infection and data from the HIV Prevention Trials Network 052 study, we projected the cost-effectiveness of early ART for such persons.
Mycobacterium bovis: characteristics of wildlife reservoir hosts.	Mycobacterium bovis is the cause of tuberculosis in animals and sometimes humans. Many developed nations have long-standing programmes to eradicate tuberculosis in livestock, principally cattle. As disease prevalence in cattle decreases these efforts are sometimes impeded by passage of M. bovis from wildlife to cattle. In epidemiological terms, disease can persist in some wildlife species, creating disease reservoirs, if the basic reproduction rate (R0) and critical community size (CCS) thresholds are achieved. Recognized wildlife reservoir hosts of M. bovis include the brushtail possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) in New Zealand, European badger (Meles meles) in Great Britain and Ireland, African buffalo (Syncerus caffer) in South Africa, wild boar (Sus scrofa) in the Iberian Peninsula and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Michigan, USA. The epidemiological concepts of R0 and CCS are related to more tangible disease/pathogen characteristics such as prevalence, pathogen-induced pathology, host behaviour and ecology. An understanding of both epidemiological and disease/pathogen characteristics is necessary to identify wildlife reservoirs of M. bovis. In some cases, there is a single wildlife reservoir host involved in transmission of M. bovis to cattle. Complexity increases, however, in multihost systems where multiple potential reservoir hosts exist. Bovine tuberculosis eradication efforts require elimination of M. bovis transmission between wildlife reservoirs and cattle. For successful eradication identification of true wildlife reservoirs is critical, as disease control efforts are most effective when directed towards true reservoirs.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis at the human/wildlife interface in a high TB burden country.	This study reports on an investigation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis cases in mostly captive wild animals using molecular typing tools [Variable Number of Tandem Repeat (VNTR) typing and Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism typing]. The investigation included cases from (i) the National Zoological Gardens of South Africa (NZG) recorded between 2002 and 2011; (ii) Johannesburg Zoo, where tuberculosis was first diagnosed in 2007 and has since been detected in three antelope species; (iii) a rehabilitation centre for vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus pygerythrus) in which M. tuberculosis was diagnosed in 2008; and (iv) incidental cases in other facilities including a sable antelope (Hippotragus niger), two unrelated cases in chacma baboons (Papio ursinus) (one of which was from a free-ranging troop) and a colony of capuchin monkeys (Cebus capucinus). Identical genetic profiles of the latter three isolates indicate the persistence of a single M. tuberculosis strain in this population since at least 2006. Results of the outbreak investigation in the captive vervet monkey colony indicate that it was caused by two unrelated strains, while all 13 M. tuberculosis isolates from 11 animal species in the NZG showed different VNTR patterns. A substantial increase in tuberculosis cases of 60% was recorded in the NZG, compared with the previous reporting period 1991-2001, and may indicate a countrywide trend of increasing spillover of human tuberculosis to wild animals. South Africa ranks among the countries with the highest-tuberculosis burden worldwide, complicated by an increasing rate of multidrug-resistant strains. Exposure and infection of captive wildlife in this high prevalence setting is therefore a growing concern for wildlife conservation but also for human health through potential spillback.
Antibiogram, adhesive characteristics, and incidence of class 1 integron in Aeromonas species isolated from two South African rivers.	Aeromonas species are well distributed in freshwater environments, and their natural susceptibility to antimicrobials renders them interesting candidates for the survey of antimicrobial resistance in freshwater milieu. Water samples were collected from Kat and Tyume rivers in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa, and a total of 45 isolates identified as Aeromonas species were recovered from the two rivers. All Aeromonas isolates were resistant to oxacillin, penicillin, clindamycin, cephalothin, vancomycin, and rifamycin, while appreciable susceptibilities (89.3 : 94.1%, 82.1 : 94.1%, 85.7 : 88.2%, and 92.9 : 88.2%) were observed against ciprofloxacin, chloramphenicol, nitrofurantoin, and gentamicin from Kat and Tyume rivers, respectively. Multiple antibiotic resistance (MAR) indices ranged from 0.016 to 0.044 for the two rivers. Class 1 integron was detected in about 20% of the isolates, and all the isolates except one showed ability to produce biofilm in vitro as weak producers (53.33%), moderate producers (15.56%), and strong producers (28.9%). This investigation provides a baseline data on antibiotic resistance as well as the adhesive characteristics of Aeromonas isolates from Tyume and Kat rivers in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa. 
The impact of methamphetamine ("tik") on a peri-urban community in Cape Town, South Africa.	Over the last decade, South Africa's Western Cape has experienced a dramatic increase in methamphetamine ("tik") use. Our study explored local impressions of the impact of tik use in a peri-urban township community in Cape Town, South Africa.
Distinct cytokine patterns in semen influence local HIV shedding and HIV target cell activation.	Semen is the main vector for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) transmission from men to women. We investigated the influence of cytokines in semen on local HIV burden and activated T cells.
Overlap in nitrogen sources and redistribution of nitrogen between trees and grasses in a semi-arid savanna.	A key question in savanna ecology is how trees and grasses coexist under N limitation. We used N stable isotopes and N content to study N source partitioning across seasons from trees and associated grasses in a semi-arid savanna. We also used (15)N tracer additions to investigate possible redistribution of N by trees to grasses. Foliar stable N isotope ratio (δ(15)N) values were consistent with trees and grasses using mycorrhiza-supplied N in all seasons except in the wet season when they switched to microbially fixed N. The dependence of trees and grasses on mineralized soil N seemed highly unlikely based on seasonal variation in mineralization rates in the Kruger Park region. Remarkably, foliar δ(15)N values were similar for all three tree species differing in the potential for N fixation through nodulation. The tracer experiment showed that N was redistributed by trees to understory grasses in all seasons. Our results suggest that the redistribution of N from trees to grasses and uptake of N was independent of water redistribution. Although there is overlap of N sources between trees and grasses, dependence on biological sources of N coupled with redistribution of subsoil N by trees may contribute to the coexistence of trees and grasses in semi-arid savannas. 
Improving paediatric tuberculosis and HIV clinical record keeping: the use of audit and a structured pro forma in a South African regional level hospital.	We report on the impact of revisions made to an existing pro forma facilitating routine assessment and the management of paediatric HIV and tuberculosis (TB) in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. An initial documentation audit in 2010 assessed 25 sets of case notes for the documentation of 16 select indicators based on national HIV and TB guidelines. Using the findings of this initial audit, the existing case note pro forma was revised. The introduction of the revised pro forma was accompanied by training and a similar repeat audit was undertaken in 2012. This demonstrated an overall improvement in documentation. The three indicators that improved most were documentation of maternal HIV status, child's HIV status and child's TB risk assessment (all P < 0.001). This study suggests that tailor-made documentation pro formas may have an important role to play in improving record keeping in low-resource settings. 
Awareness of nicotine replacement therapy among South African smokers and their interest in using it for smoking cessation when provided for free.	This study assessed knowledge of South African smokers about nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) and their interest in using it for smoking cessation if it is provided free.
Tree species from different functional groups respond differently to environmental changes during establishment.	Savanna plant communities change considerably across time and space. The processes driving savanna plant species diversity, coexistence and turnover along environmental gradients are still unclear. Understanding how species respond differently to varying environmental conditions during the seedling stage, a critical stage for plant population dynamics, is needed to explain the current composition of plant communities and to enable us to predict their responses to future environmental changes. Here we investigate whether seedling response to changes in resource availability, and to competition with grass, varied between two functional groups of African savanna trees: species with small leaves, spines and N-fixing associations (fine-leaved species), and species with broad leaves, no spines, and lacking N-fixing associations (broad-leaved species). We show that while tree species were strongly suppressed by grass, the effect of resource availability on seedling performance varied considerably between the two functional groups. Nutrient inputs increased stem length only of broad-leaved species and only under an even watering treatment. Low light conditions benefited mostly broad-leaved species' growth. Savannas are susceptible to ongoing global environment changes. Our results suggest that an increase in woody cover is only likely to occur in savannas if grass cover is strongly suppressed (e.g. by fire or overgrazing). However, if woody cover does increase, broad-leaved species will benefit most from the resulting shaded environments, potentially leading to an expansion of the distribution of these species. Eutrophication and changes in rainfall patterns may also affect the balance between fine- and broad-leaved species. 
Summit metabolism and metabolic expansibility in Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bats (Epomophorus wahlbergi): seasonal acclimatisation and effects of captivity.	Summit metabolism (M sum), the maximum rate of resting metabolic thermogenesis, has been found to be broadly correlated with climatic variables and the use of heterothermy in some endotherms. Far less is known about M sum and metabolic expansibility [ME, the ratio of M sum to basal metabolic rate (BMR)] in bats compared with many other endotherm taxa. We measured BMR and M sum during winter and summer in captive and wild populations of a pteropodid from the southern subtropics, Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bat (Epomophorus wahlbergi) in Pretoria, South Africa. The M sum of fruit bats ranged from 5.178 ± 0.611 W (captive, summer) to 6.006 ± 0.890 W (captive, winter), and did not vary significantly between seasons. In contrast, BMR decreased by 17-25% in winter. The combination of seasonally stable M sum but flexible BMR resulted in ME being significantly higher in winter than in summer, ranging from 7.24 ± 1.49 (wild, summer) to 13.11 ± 2.14 (captive, winter). The latter value is well above the typical mammalian range. Moreover, both M sum and ME were significantly higher in captive bats than in wild individuals; we speculate this represents a phenotypic response to a reduction in exercise-associated heat production while in captivity. Our data for E. wahlbergi, combined with those currently available for other chiropterans, reveal that M sum in bats is highly variable compared with allometrically expected values for other mammals.
Using changes in agricultural utility to quantify future climate-induced risk to conservation.	Much of the biodiversity-related climate change impacts research has focused on the direct effects to species and ecosystems. Far less attention has been paid to the potential ecological consequences of human efforts to address the effects of climate change, which may equal or exceed the direct effects of climate change on biodiversity. One of the most significant human responses is likely to be mediated through changes in the agricultural utility of land. As farmers adapt their practices to changing climates, they may increase pressure on some areas that are important to conserve (conservation lands) whereas lessening it on others. We quantified how the agricultural utility of South African conservation lands may be altered by climate change. We assumed that the probability of an area being farmed is linked to the economic benefits of doing so, using land productivity values to represent production benefit and topographic ruggedness as a proxy for costs associated with mechanical workability. We computed current and future values of maize and wheat production in key conservation lands using the DSSAT4.5 model and 36 crop-climate response scenarios. Most conservation lands had, and were predicted to continue to have, low agricultural utility because of their location in rugged terrain. However, several areas were predicted to maintain or gain high agricultural utility and may therefore be at risk of near-term or future conversion to cropland. Conversely, some areas were predicted to decrease in agricultural utility and may therefore prove easier to protect from conversion. Our study provides an approximate but readily transferable method for incorporating potential human responses to climate change into conservation planning.
Characteristics of a novel lentivirus derived from South African sheep with pulmonary adenocarcinoma (jaagsiekte).	A novel lentivirus was isolated from South African sheep with experimentally transmitted lung adenocarcinoma. Similar to visna virus and caprine arthritis encephalitis virus, this new strain induced cytopathic effects on ovine plexus choroid cultures. In contrast to a recent Israeli isolate from sheep with adenocarcinoma, the South African lentivirus could not transform fibroblast cultures. The antigenic relatedness between the new isolate and visna virus was assessed by immunoprecipitation of radiolabeled viral proteins, using monospecific antisera against visna virus proteins. The results indicate that the new virus contains four major structural proteins of sizes similar to those of visna virus (i.e., gp135, p30, p16, and p14) and have some common antigenic determinants (about 90% in the major core antigen p30). However, the nucleotidic sequences of the novel lentivirus were found to be only 16.5 to 27.4% homologous to visna virus and 8.3 to 15% homologous to caprine arthritis encephalitis virus, by means of liquid hybridization under stringent conditions. The genetic divergence indicated by this last result was confirmed by the dissimilar restriction endonuclease cleavage map of the new virus in comparison to those of visna virus and three caprine arthritis encephalitis virus strains. The demonstration of a third type of ovine lentivirus supports the concept of an important genetic variation among the lentiviruses infecting one animal species.
The evolution of micro-cursoriality in mammals.	In this study we report on the evolution of micro-cursoriality, a unique case of cursoriality in mammals smaller than 1 kg. We obtained new running speed and limb morphology data for two species of elephant-shrews (Elephantulus spp., Macroscelidae) from Namaqualand, South Africa, which we compared with published data for other mammals. Elephantulus maximum running speeds were higher than those of most mammals smaller than 1 kg. Elephantulus also possess exceptionally high metatarsal:femur ratios (1.07) that are typically associated with fast unguligrade cursors. Cursoriality evolved in the Artiodactyla, Perissodactyla and Carnivora coincident with global cooling and the replacement of forests with open landscapes in the Oligocene and Miocene. The majority of mammal species, though, remained non-cursorial, plantigrade and small (<1 kg). The extraordinary running speed and digitigrady of elephant-shrews was established in the Early Eocene in the earliest macroscelid Prodiacodon, but was probably inherited from Paleocene, Holarctic stem macroscelids. Micro-cursoriality in macroscelids evolved from the plesiomorphic plantigrade foot of the possum-like ancestral mammal earlier than in other mammalian crown groups. Micro-cursoriality evolved first in forests, presumably in response to selection for rapid running speeds facilitated by local knowledge, in order to avoid predators. During the Miocene, micro-cursoriality was pre-adaptive to open, arid habitats, and became more derived in the newly evolved Elephantulus and Macroscelides elephant-shrews with trail running. 
Serum carnitine in children with kwashiorkor.	Concentrations of free and acylcarnitine were measured in serum of children with kwashiorkor and compared with those obtained for well nourished children of similar age. The mean values (S.E.) for both free and acylcarnitine were significantly lower in the kwashiorkor group [32.6 (6.2) and 8.1 (2.2), respectively] than in the controls [53.2 (2.9) and 13.8 (3.1), respectively]. Serum albumin was also low in kwashiorkor patients, but there was no significant correlation with carnitine values.
Perception of effort in morning-type cyclists is lower when exercising in the morning.	A recent study found that South African endurance athletes are likely to be morning-types and carry the PER3(5) allele, which has been associated with a preference for mornings. The aim of this study was to measure the response of morning-type cyclists to a standardised bout of exercise performed at different times of the day. Participants ncluded 20 trained male cyclists (age: 39.8 ± 7.7 years, VO2max: 51.0 ± 7.0 ml · kg(-1) · min(-1), training: 166 ± 98 km · wk(-1)), categorised as morning-types (mean Horne-Östberg score: 68.3 ± 5.5) and carrying the PER3(5) allele. They completed a 17-min sub-maximal cycling test at 60%, 80% and 90% of maximum heart rate (HRmax) at 06h00, 10h00, 14h00, 18h00 and 22h00. These morning-type cyclists reported higher ratings of perceived exertion when cycling at 60% (P = 0.044), 80% (P < 0.001) and 90% (P < 0.001) of HRmax during the evening (18h00 and 22h00) compared to the other sessions (0600, 10h00 and 14h00). This was despite absolute power output, speed and cadence displaying no time-of-day differences. Thus, morning-type cyclists perceive the same relative intensity workload to be harder in the evening compared to the morning. This may have implications for both training and competition scheduling, and highlights the importance of considering individual chronotype in sports in which diurnal variation may be relevant to training and competition.
The isolation and genetic characterisation of a South African strain of Phthorimaea operculella granulovirus, PhopGV-SA.	The Phthorimaea operculella granulovirus (PhopGV) is considered a promising biopesticide that can be incorporated into integrated pest management programmes for sustainable control of the potato tuber moth, Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), a major pest of solanaceous crops in sub-tropical and tropical regions worldwide. Several PhopGV isolates recovered from geographically different insect populations have been genetically characterised, and the full genome of the Tunisian PhopGV-1346 isolate has been sequenced, providing a reference strain for comparison of novel isolates. Here we report the identification and genetic characterisation of a South African PhopGV isolate recovered from a P. operculella colony held under laboratory conditions. Transmission electron microscopy examination of purified occlusion bodies together with analysis of granulin and late expression factor-8 (lef-8) gene sequences confirmed the identity of the virus as PhopGV. The sequenced ecdysteroid UDP-glucosyltransferase (egt) gene was 1353nt in length, placing PhopGV-SA in egt group II. Finally, a phylogenetic analysis using a range of egt sequences grouped PhopGV-SA together with the Kenyan, Ecuadorian, Indonesian and Colombian isolates. The results are discussed with reference to the possible origin of PhopGV-SA, and provide a platform for future studies involving virulence evaluation against geographically different P. operculella populations with a view to biopesticide development. 
Cost-effectiveness of a potential group B streptococcal vaccine program for pregnant women in South Africa.	In low- and middle-income countries neonatal infections are important causes of infant mortality. Group B streptococcus (GBS) is a major pathogen. A GBS polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccine, the only option that has the potential to prevent both early- and late-onset GBS disease, has completed Phase II trials. Screening-based intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP) for pregnant women, an effective strategy in high-income countries, is often not practical in these settings. Risk factor-based IAP (RFB-IAP) for women with risk factors at delivery has had limited success in preventing neonatal infection. We evaluated the cost and health impacts of maternal GBS vaccination in South Africa.
Loss of a large grazer impacts savanna grassland plant communities similarly in North America and South Africa.	Large herbivore grazing is a widespread disturbance in mesic savanna grasslands which increases herbaceous plant community richness and diversity. However, humans are modifying the impacts of grazing on these ecosystems by removing grazers. A more general understanding of how grazer loss will impact these ecosystems is hampered by differences in the diversity of large herbivore assemblages among savanna grasslands, which can affect the way that grazing influences plant communities. To avoid this we used two unique enclosures each containing a single, functionally similar large herbivore species. Specifically, we studied a bison (Bos bison) enclosure at Konza Prairie Biological Station, USA and an African buffalo (Syncerus caffer) enclosure in Kruger National Park, South Africa. Within these enclosures we erected exclosures in annually burned and unburned sites to determine how grazer loss would impact herbaceous plant communities, while controlling for potential fire-grazing interactions. At both sites, removal of the only grazer decreased grass and forb richness, evenness and diversity, over time. However, in Kruger these changes only occurred with burning. At both sites, changes in plant communities were driven by increased dominance with herbivore exclusion. At Konza, this was caused by increased abundance of one grass species, Andropogon gerardii, while at Kruger, three grasses, Themeda triandra, Panicum coloratum, and Digitaria eriantha increased in abundance. 
Why parents refuse newborn hearing screening and default on follow-up rescreening--a South African perspective.	This study describes screen refusal and follow-up default characteristics together with caregiver reasons for screen refusal and follow-up default in two South African universal newborn hearing screening programs.
Recombinant adenovirus type 5 HIV gag/pol/nef vaccine in South Africa: unblinded, long-term follow-up of the phase 2b HVTN 503/Phambili study.	The HVTN 503/Phambili study, which assessed the efficacy of the Merck Ad5 gag/pol/nef subtype B HIV-1 preventive vaccine in South Africa, was stopped when futility criteria in the Step study (assessing the same vaccine in the Americas, Caribbean, and Australia) were met. Here we report long-term follow-up data.
Effect of Beauveria bassiana infection on detoxification enzyme transcription in pyrethroid resistant Anopheles arabiensis: a preliminary study.	Fungal biopesticides are of great interest to vector control scientists as they provide a novel and environmentally friendly alternative to insecticide use. The aim of this study was to determine whether genes associated with pyrethroid resistance in Anopheles arabiensis from Sudan and South Africa are further induced following exposure to the entomopathogenic fungus, Beauveria bassiana (strain GHA).
Conscientious objection and its impact on abortion service provision in South Africa: a qualitative study.	Despite abortion being legally available in South Africa after a change in legislation in 1996, barriers to accessing safe abortion services continue to exist. These barriers include provider opposition to abortion often on the grounds of religious or moral beliefs including the unregulated practice of conscientious objection. Few studies have explored how providers in South Africa make sense of, or understand, conscientious objection in terms of refusing to provide abortion care services and the consequent impact on abortion access.
The potential consequences of informal interpreting practices for assessment of patients in a South African psychiatric hospital.	In South Africa health care practitioners are commonly professionals who speak only one, or at most two, of the languages spoken by their patients. This provides for language provision challenges, since many patients are not proficient in English or Afrikaans and ad hoc and haphazard arrangements are made for interpreting by untrained personnel. As part of a larger study (conducted in 2010) in a public psychiatric hospital, we report here on the potential consequences for diagnostic assessments of 13 psychiatric evaluations mediated by ad hoc interpreters who were employed as health care workers and household aides. The psychiatric evaluations were recorded and transcribed verbatim. The first author checked for accuracy of transcription and translations, and the two members of the author team who are both senior African language academics rechecked transcription and translation. We used the typology developed by Vasquez and Javier (1991) to study interpreter errors (i.e. omissions, additions and substitutions). All errors were independently rated by a senior psychiatrist and a senior clinical psychologist to determine whether the errors were likely to have a bearing on clinical decisions concerning the patient and to rate whether errors deemed clinically significant contributed to making the patient appear more ill psychiatrically, or less ill. Of the 57 errors recorded, 46% were rated as likely to have an impact on the goal of the clinical session. Raters concurred that the clinically significant errors contributed towards potentially making the patient look more psychiatrically ill. Detailed analyses of evaluations demonstrate the complexity of informal interpreter positioning regarding issues of diagnosis and cultural factors in illness. Evaluations conducted where clinicians and interpreters are not trained in language and interpreting issues may create a distorted picture of the patients' mental health conditions. 
Challenges with couples, serodiscordance and HIV disclosure: healthcare provider perspectives on delivering safer conception services for HIV-affected couples, South Africa.	Safer conception interventions should ideally involve both members of an HIV-affected couple. With serodiscordant couples, healthcare providers will need to manage periconception risk behaviour as well tailor safer conception strategies according to available resources and the HIV status of each partner. Prior to widespread implementation of safer conception services, it is crucial to better understand provider perspectives regarding provision of care since they will be pivotal to the successful delivery of safer conception. This paper reports on findings from a qualitative study exploring the viewpoints and experiences of doctors, nurses, and lay counsellors on safer conception care in a rural and in an urban setting in Durban, South Africa.
Predictors of parent-adolescent communication in post-apartheid South Africa: a protective factor in adolescent sexual and reproductive health.	In the HIV context, risky sexual behaviours can be reduced through effective parent-adolescent communication. This study used the Parent Adolescent Communication Scale to determine parent-adolescent communication by ethnicity and identify predictors of high parent-adolescent communication amongst South African adolescents post-apartheid. A cross-sectional interviewer-administered survey was administered to 822 adolescents from Johannesburg, South Africa. Backward stepwise multivariate regressions were performed. The sample was predominantly Black African (62%, n = 506) and female (57%, n = 469). Of the participants, 57% (n = 471) reported high parent-adolescent communication. Multivariate regression showed that gender was a significant predictor of high parent-adolescent communication (Black African OR:1.47, CI: 1.0-2.17, Indian OR: 2.67, CI: 1.05-6.77, White OR: 2.96, CI: 1.21-7.18). Female-headed households were predictors of high parent-adolescent communication amongst Black Africans (OR:1.49, CI: 1.01-2.20), but of low parent-adolescent communication amongst Whites (OR:0.36, CI: 0.15-0.89). Overall levels of parent-adolescent communication in South Africa are low. HIV prevention programmes for South African adolescents should include information and skills regarding effective parent-adolescent communication.
Comprehensive profiling of the vaginal microbiome in HIV positive women using massive parallel semiconductor sequencing.	Infections by HIV increase the risk of acquiring secondary viral and bacterial infections and methods are needed to determine the spectrum of co-infections for proper treatment. We used rolling circle amplification (RCA) and Ion Proton sequencing to investigate the vaginal microbiome of 20 HIV positive women from South Africa. A total of 46 different human papillomavirus (HPV) types were found, many of which are not detected by existing genotyping assays. Moreover, the complete genomes of two novel HPV types were determined. Abundance of HPV infections was highly correlated with real-time PCR estimates, indicating that the RCA-Proton method can be used for quantification of individual pathogens. We also identified a large number of other viral, bacterial and parasitic co-infections and the spectrum of these co-infections varied widely between individuals. Our method provides rapid detection of a broad range of pathogens and the ability to reconstruct complete genomes of novel infectious agents. 
Landscape-scale variation in plant community composition of an African savanna from airborne species mapping.	Information on landscape-scale patterns in species distributions and community types is vital for ecological science and effective conservation assessment and planning. However, detailed maps of plant community structure at landscape scales seldom exist due to the inability of field-based inventories to map a sufficient number of individuals over large areas. The Carnegie Airborne Observatory (CAO) collected hyperspectral and lidar data over Kruger National Park, South Africa, and these data were used to remotely identify > 500 000 tree and shrub crowns over a 144-km2 landscape using stacked support vector machines. Maps of community compositional variation were produced by ordination and clustering, and the importance of hillslope-scale topo-edaphic variation in shaping community structure was evaluated with redundancy analysis. This remote species identification approach revealed spatially complex patterns in woody plant communities throughout the landscape that could not be directly observed using field-based methods alone. We estimated that topo-edaphic variables representing catenal sequences explained 21% of species compositional variation, while we also uncovered important community patterns that were unrelated to catenas, indicating a large role for other soil-related factors in shaping the savanna community. Our results demonstrate the ability of airborne species identification techniques to map biodiversity for the evaluation of ecological controls on community composition over large landscapes.
Interactive effects of grazing, drought, and fire on grassland plant communities in North America and South Africa.	Grazing, fire, and climate shape mesic grassland communities. With global change altering all three factors, understanding how grasslands respond to changes in these combined drivers may aid in projecting future changes in grassland ecosystems. We manipulated rainfall and simulated grazing (clipping) in two long-term fire experiments in mesic grasslands in North America (NA) and South Africa (SA). Despite their common drivers, grasslands in NA and SA differ in evolutionary history. Therefore, we expected community structure and production in NA and SA to respond differently to fire, grazing, and drought. Specifically, we hypothesized that NA plant community composition and production would be more responsive than the SA plant communities to changes in the drivers and their interactions, and that despite this expected stability of SA grasslands, drought would be the dominant factor controlling production, but grazing would play the primary role in determining community composition at both sites. Contrary to our hypothesis, NA and SA grasslands generally responded similarly to grazing, drought, and fire. Grazing increased diversity, decreased grass cover and production, and decreased belowground biomass at both sites. Drought alone minimally impacted plant community structure, and we saw similar treatment interactions at the two sites. Drought was not the primary driver of grassland productivity, but instead drought effects were similar to or less than grazing and fire. Even though these grasslands differed in evolutionary history, they responded similarly to our fire, grazing, and climate manipulations. Overall, we found community and ecosystem convergence in NA and SA grasslands. Grazing and fire are as important as climate in controlling mesic grassland ecosystems on both continents.
A personal experience in the presence of a man who transformed a nation and changed the world: Nelson Mandela.	At this time in history, I consider myself very privileged to have spent some three hours in the presence of President Nelson Mandela as a Howard University faculty member in the late 1990s. Then, President of Howard University, H. Patrick Swygert bestowed upon President Nelson Mandela, Esquire an Honorary Doctorate of Human Letters. I can only equate this experience to my four mile walk up the Bedaling Wall (Great Wall) in China (a magnificent ancient wonder of the world), and trying to relate this event to something only fortunate souls have had the chance to enjoy. I also treasure the once in a lifetime visit to the Republic of South Africa in 1998 when the Association of Black Nursing Faculty, Inc., Chi Eta Phi Nursing Sorority, Inc., and the Department of Nursing (University of Botswana) sponsored the trip as an attempt to establish partnerships, share common interests and discussion in how to meet health needs of emerging majority and disadvantaged populations in the world, including mainly, the continent of Africa, in the 21st century. This short memoir can only piggy-back the massive coverage in the media that began almost instantly as a long anticipated event (death of Nelson Mandela), but startled upon its occurrence.
Stratigraphic analysis of the Sterkfontein StW 573 Australopithecus skeleton and implications for its age.	StW 573, Little Foot, is the most complete Australopithecus skeleton yet discovered, with many of its bones found in their correct anatomical position. Since the discovery of the in situ skeleton in the Silberberg Grotto in 1997, several teams have attempted to date the fossil. This appeared a simple process because several flowstones are inter-bedded in the breccia above and below StW 573. Dating of these flowstones, using U-Pb (uranium-lead) isotope decay techniques, gave younger results than expected from the fauna and stratigraphic position, around 2.2 Ma (millions of years). Our recent stratigraphic, micromorphological and geochemical studies revealed that the stratigraphy is much more complicated than was previously thought, with localized post-depositional processes leading to the creation of voids within the breccia around the skeleton. These voids were then filled by multiple generations of flowstone growth. The research we present here demonstrates that the proposed dates based on the flowstone deposition can give only a minimum age for StW 573 and that the flowstone formation came after, and probably long after, the breccia deposition. If one takes account of the long evolution of these karst fillings, StW 573 appears to be significantly older than 2.2 Ma. 
SQUID-SIMS is a useful approach to uncover primary signals in the Archean sulfur cycle.	Many aspects of Earth's early sulfur cycle, from the origin of mass-anomalous fractionations to the degree of biological participation, remain poorly understood--in part due to complications from postdepositional diagenetic and metamorphic processes. Using a combination of scanning high-resolution magnetic superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) microscopy and secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) of sulfur isotopes ((32)S, (33)S, and (34)S), we examined drill core samples from slope and basinal environments adjacent to a major Late Archean (∼2.6-2.5 Ga) marine carbonate platform from South Africa. Coupled with petrography, these techniques can untangle the complex history of mineralization in samples containing diverse sulfur-bearing phases. We focused on pyrite nodules, precipitated in shallow sediments. These textures record systematic spatial differences in both mass-dependent and mass-anomalous sulfur-isotopic composition over length scales of even a few hundred microns. Petrography and magnetic imaging demonstrate that mass-anomalous fractionations were acquired before burial and compaction, but also show evidence of postdepositional alteration 500 million y after deposition. Using magnetic imaging to screen for primary phases, we observed large spatial gradients in Δ(33)S (>4‰) in nodules, pointing to substantial environmental heterogeneity and dynamic mixing of sulfur pools on geologically rapid timescales. In other nodules, large systematic radial δ(34)S gradients (>20‰) were observed, from low values near their centers increasing to high values near their rims. These fractionations support hypotheses that microbial sulfate reduction was an important metabolism in organic-rich Archean environments--even in an Archean ocean basin dominated by iron chemistry.
Experimental heat treatment of silcrete implies analogical reasoning in the Middle Stone Age.	Siliceous rocks that were not heated to high temperatures during their geological formation display improved knapping qualities when they are subjected to controlled heating. Experimental heat treatment of South African silcrete, using open fires of the kind used during the Middle Stone Age, shows that the process needed careful management, notwithstanding recent arguments to the contrary. Silcrete blocks fractured when heated on the surface of open fires or on coal beds, but were heated without mishap when buried in sand below a fire. Three silcrete samples, a control, a block heated underground with maximum temperature between 400 and 500 °C and a block heated in an open fire with maximum temperature between 700 and 800 °C, were analysed with X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), optical microscopy, and both Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and Raman spectroscopy. The results show that the volume expansion during the thermally induced α- to β-quartz phase transformation and the volume contraction during cooling play a major role in the heat treatment of silcrete. Rapid heating or cooling through the phase transformation at 573 °C will cause fracture of the silcrete. Successful heat treatment requires controlling surface fire temperatures in order to obtain the appropriate underground temperatures to stay below the quartz inversion temperature. Heat treatment of rocks is a transformative technology that requires skilled use of fire. This process involves analogical reasoning, which is an attribute of complex cognition. 
How adolescents perceive their communities: a qualitative study that explores the relationship between health and the physical environment.	The Well-Being of Adolescents in Vulnerable Environments (WAVE) study was conducted among adolescents aged 15-19 years in Baltimore, Ibadan, Johannesburg, New Delhi, and Shanghai to examine perceived factors related to their health. A preliminary analysis of the data, unexpectedly, revealed that the influence of the physical environment on adolescent health was a dominant theme across every site examined. To explore this further, this paper analyzed the specific components of the physical environment that were perceived to influence health, and how they contributed to various health outcomes across sites.
Routine data for disease surveillance in the undeveloped region of the OR Tambo district of the Eastern Cape Province.	The research team needed to upsize the solution previously tested so that it could expand the routine data collected via tablet computers. The research team identified the general flow of data within clinics. Data was mainly collected from registers, which were later converted to electronic form and checked for duplication. A database was designed for the collection of demographic data (Patient Master Index), which was aimed at eliminating duplication of patients' data in several registers. Open Data Kit (ODK) Collect was setup on Android tablets for collecting disease related routine data, while ODK Aggregate as the storage and aggregates of data captured by ODK Collect and the Patient Master Index for demographic data, were setup on an Apple Mini Mac server. Data collection is in progress. The expected results include improved data quality, reliability and quick access to summary data. Secondly, instant retrieval of patient demographic details and clinic numbers are included. Thirdly, ability to form standard reporting from the SQL database and lastly exporting data into the TIER.net and DHIS systems via CVS files thus eliminating the need for data capturers are shown. 
Gender perspective of risk factors associated with disclosure of HIV status, a cross-sectional study in Soweto, South Africa.	Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) status disclosure has been shown to provide several benefits, both at the individual and societal levels.
Effects of local tree diversity on herbivore communities diminish with increasing forest fragmentation on the landscape scale.	Forest fragmentation and plant diversity have been shown to play a crucial role for herbivorous insects (herbivores, hereafter). In turn, herbivory-induced leaf area loss is known to have direct implications for plant growth and reproduction as well as long-term consequences for ecosystem functioning and forest regeneration. So far, previous studies determined diverging responses of herbivores to forest fragmentation and plant diversity. Those inconsistent results may be owed to complex interactive effects of both co-occurring environmental factors albeit they act on different spatial scales. In this study, we investigated whether forest fragmentation on the landscape scale and tree diversity on the local habitat scale show interactive effects on the herbivore community and leaf area loss in subtropical forests in South Africa. We applied standardized beating samples and a community-based approach to estimate changes in herbivore community composition, herbivore abundance, and the effective number of herbivore species on the tree species-level. We further monitored leaf area loss to link changes in the herbivore community to the associated process of herbivory. Forest fragmentation and tree diversity interactively affected the herbivore community composition, mainly by a species turnover within the family of Curculionidae. Furthermore, herbivore abundance increased and the number of herbivore species decreased with increasing tree diversity in slightly fragmented forests whereas the effects diminished with increasing forest fragmentation. Surprisingly, leaf area loss was neither affected by forest fragmentation or tree diversity, nor by changes in the herbivore community. Our study highlights the need to consider interactive effects of environmental changes across spatial scales in order to draw reliable conclusions for community and interaction patterns. Moreover, forest fragmentation seems to alter the effect of tree diversity on the herbivore community, and thus, has the potential to jeopardize ecosystem functioning and forest regeneration. 
Intention to switch to smokeless tobacco use among South African smokers: results from the 2007 South African Social Attitudes Survey.	Some smokeless tobacco products (SLT) have been shown to be associated with only a fraction of the risks of cigarettes. This study assessed South African smokers' interest in switching to a hypothetical reduced harm SLT product.
Timelier notification and action with mobile phones-towards malaria elimination in South Africa.	Surveillance with timely follow-up of diagnosed cases is a key component of the malaria elimination strategy in South Africa. The strategy requires each malaria case to be reported within 24 hours, and a case should be followed up within 48 hours. However, reporting delays are common in rural parts of the country.
Timing of maternal HIV testing and uptake of prevention of mother-to-child transmission interventions among women and their infected infants in Johannesburg, South Africa.	By 2011, South African prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV programs had reduced perinatal HIV transmission at 6 weeks of age to 2.7%. We investigated the profile of newly diagnosed vertically infected children and their mothers to identify shortfalls in the PMTCT program.
Psychometric properties of the feedback orientation scale among South African salespersons.	Feedback to employees is an important management tool, and the literature demonstrates that it has a positive effect on learning, motivation, and job performance. This study investigates in a non-U.S. context the psychometric properties of the Feedback Orientation Scale. Data were gathered from a sample of 202 salespersons from a large South African firm within the industrial fuels and lubricants sector. Confirmatory Factor Analysis provided evidence for the intended dimensionality, reliability, and convergent and discriminant validity of the scale.
Evaluation of preschool children with Down's syndrome in Cape Town using the Griffiths Scale of Mental Development.	Fifty-five preschool children with Down's syndrome were assessed using the Griffiths Scale of Mental Development. They were all the children with Down's syndrome living in Cape Town who spoke English or Afrikaans as their home language. There was a significant decrease in developmental quotient with increasing age and the hearing and speech subscore was lower than the other subscores. No significant associations were found between maternal age, sex, social class or race of the child and development. There was a negative association between developmental quotient and the number of siblings. The additional stimulation of a playgroup or preschool centre was associated with improved developmental functioning when compared to the children cared for at home during the day.
Relation between asbestosis and bronchial cancer in amphibole asbestos miners.	In a necropsy series of 339 amphibole asbestos miners heavy smoking, age, and the presence of asbestosis were significantly associated with the presence of bronchial cancer. Of the 35 cases of bronchial cancer, 24 were associated with asbestosis. Eleven cases of bronchial cancer occurred in men without asbestosis; all were smokers. Standardised proportional mortality rates indicated no excess of bronchial cancer in 302 exposed men without asbestosis whereas these rates were progressively raised in men with slight or moderate/severe asbestosis. Of the four exposure variables introduced separately into a logistic regression model, "years of exposure" made a small but significant contribution; "residence time" marginally failed to achieve a 5% level of significance. Two other exposure variables tested including cumulative fibre exposure (fibre years) made no significant contribution. In the absence of asbestosis at necropsy a bronchial cancer in a man exposed to asbestos is unlikely to be due to asbestos.
Multiple mutations underlying familial hypercholesterolemia in the South African population.	Ten restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the LDL receptor gene were used for haplotype analysis in 12 unrelated patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. These patients were drawn from the Black, Coloured, and White population groups and collectively represent 24 mutant alleles underlying the FH phenotype. Five distinct haplotypes were detected. Hybridization analysis using DNA codigested with EcoRI and PstI revealed that haplotype IV was associated with two distinct mutations. When coupled to the recent demonstration by other workers of two receptor defects in South African Afrikaners homozygous for FH and haplotype I, these data are suggestive of at least seven distinct LDL receptor mutations in the FH patients examined and thus in the general South African population.
Academic sanction. Targeting South African science.	Academic sanction, the intentional denial of scholarly exchange for political reasons, presents grave practical and moral problems to the open pursuit of medical science. The focus of this article targets South African science. However, examples of academic sanction in Western Europe, the United States, the Soviet Union, China, Japan, and other areas are given to support the existence of discriminatory restrictions against scientists. Examples and reasons also are offered for and against academic sanction, with the recommendation that academic sanction be pursued only with judgment informed by factual knowledge as well as moral, ethical, and compassionate values.
A probable case of prehistoric kidney stone disease from the northern Cape Province, South Africa.	During the excavation of isolated graves along the north shore of the Orange River in the Cape Province of South Africa, a skeleton was uncovered that showed two large calcareous deposits near the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The individual was an adult female of about 55 years of age at the time of death. The calcified residue did not in any way resemble the external or internal anatomical form of a kidney, but X-ray powder diffraction analysis and scanning electron microscopy identified the material as apatite (Ca10(PO4)6 (OH)2), a common constituent of human urinary calculi. It is postulated that the bilateral calcification was the result of a chronic renal disorder. Although it is rarely possible to identify the cause of death from skeletal remains alone, the disorder as seen in this specimen would appear to have been very severe and may well have been the ultimate cause of death.
Albinism and skin cancer in Southern Africa.	The presence of skin cancer was investigated in 111 albinos belonging to the black (Negro) population of Johannesburg, South Africa. The overall rate was 23.4%, the risk increasing with age. Identifiable risk factors included: environmental exposure to ultraviolet radiation; inability to produce ephelides ('freckles'); and possibly ethnicity. The head was the site most commonly affected, and squamous was far more common than basal cell carcinoma. No melanomas were detected. Recommendations are made regarding prevention of skin cancer in the at-risk group.
Mesothelioma in South Africa, 1976-84: incidence and case characteristics.	Malignant mesothelioma is a rare tumour known to be associated with prior exposure to asbestos. Previous studies have described the occupational and clinical features of cases of mesothelioma in the Republic of South Africa (RSA) but none has set out to determine incidence of this disease. To estimate incidence, a case register was compiled for 1976-84 by contacting all medical practitioners and institutions likely to have seen cases of mesothelioma in this period; demographic, diagnostic and exposure details were sought. Cases were accepted if they provided evidence of histological diagnosis of mesothelioma. Fifty-two per cent of 1347 cases identified were in whites, 31% in blacks, 16% in coloureds and 1% in Asians. Seventy-three per cent of cases occurred in males. The majority of whites were aged 51-70 years, while the majority in other race groups were aged 41-60 years. The ratio of only pleural to only peritoneal mesothelioma was 11:1, although there were marked differences by race. Eighty-five per cent of males with exposure information available had prior exposure to asbestos, mostly occupational. A similar proportion of women had contact with asbestos but mostly through other types of exposure. Standardized incidence rates per million population aged 15 years and over were calculated for sex-race subgroups and were highest in white males (32.9 per million per year, 95% Cl 22.7-46.4), coloured males (24.8 per million per year, 95% Cl 16.2-36.9) and coloured females (13.9 per million per year, 95% Cl 7.7-23.5). These incidence rates are amongst the highest ever reported for a national population. Age-specific standardized incidence rates were highest in white males (over 100 per million per year in men over 55 years). Reasons for the differing rates by population group are likely to include differential access to health services. More rigorous control of asbestos exposure in the RSA is recommended.
Dental caries at five and twelve years in a South African Indian community: a longitudinal study.	In 1979, 515 of 767 available Indian children born in Lenasia in 1974 were examined and their dental caries status was described. In 1986, 515 of the original 715 were re-examined in order to determine the pattern of dental caries in the primary and permanent dentitions of the same individuals. In contrast to studies in the literature in which treatment records have been used, both investigations were formal epidemiological field studies using calibrated examiners and WHO (1971) caries diagnostic criteria. A firm association was found between caries in the primary and permanent dentitions (r = 0.34).
Community-acquired pneumonia of diverse aetiology: prognostic features in patients admitted to an intensive care unit and a "severity of illness" core.	In a retrospective study of 73 patients with community-acquired lobar pneumonia of diverse aetiology admitted to an intensive care unit, an attempt was made to identify those factors among the demographic and clinical features and results of initial laboratory investigations that were predictive of the ultimate outcome. A lower mean white cell count (p = 0.03), platelet count (p = 0.02), total serum protein (p = 0.005) and albumin (p = 0.02) and a higher mean serum creatinine (p = 0.03) and phosphate level (p = 0.02) appeared to be predictive of a poor prognosis. The most significant variable predictive of mortality, was the presence of bacteraemia (p = 0.0005). Severity of illness scoring systems by omitting microbiological data appear to underestimate predicted patient mortality. The mortality rate of critically ill patients with community-acquired lobar pneumonia remains high, despite advances in antimicrobial chemotherapy and intensive care unit facilities, particularly in the presence of certain negative prognostic factors of which the presence of bacteraemia is the most important.
Seasonal abundance of Muscidae (Diptera) associated with cattle on a northern Transvaal farm.	Face flies were collected from cattle over a 14-mo period in an area where Parafilaria bovicola Tubangui was prevalent. Three species of Musca known to be vectors of P. bovicola were found. Two of the species (Musca lusoria Wiedeman and M. xanthomelas Wiedeman) were collected throughout the year, and M. nevilli Kleynhans was abundant only in autumn.
Regression with an ordered categorical response.	A survey on Mseleni joint disease in South Africa involved the scoring of pelvic X-rays of women to measure osteoporosis. The scores were ordinal by construction and ranged from 0 to 12. It is standard practice to use ordinary regression techniques with an ordinal response that has that many categories. We give evidence for these data that the constraints on the response result in a misleading regression analysis. McCullagh's proportional-odds model is designed specifically for the regression analysis of ordinal data. We demonstrate the technique on these data, and show how it fills the gap between ordinary regression and logistic regression (for discrete data with two categories). In addition, we demonstrate non-parametric versions of these models that do not make any linearity assumptions about the regression function.
Association of rheumatoid arthritis with HLA in three South African populations--whites, blacks and a population of mixed ancestry.	The association between rheumatoid arthritis and HLA was studied in three South African populations: whites (N = 66), blacks (N = 33) and patients of mixed ancestry (Cape Coloureds) (N = 183). The antigens of the HLA-A, B, C, DR and DQ loci were detected by microlymphocytotoxicity assay and their frequencies in the three patient groups were compared with the corresponding frequencies in normal individuals of the same population group. HLA-DR4 was significantly associated with rheumatoid arthritis in whites (P less than 0.0001), blacks (P less than 0.001) and patients of mixed ancestry (P less than 10(-6]. The relative risk for HLA-DR4 was 3,2 in whites, 3,9 in blacks and 3,7 in patients of mixed ancestry. Other significant associations detected were with HLA-A2 in whites and HLA-B8 and DQw3 in patients of mixed ancestry. The constant association with HLA-DR4 seen in the different populations provides support for the suggestion that the HLA genes themselves are responsible for the genetic susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis.
Parasitic infestation in Cape Town children. A random study of 101 patients.	Over a 12-month period random stool specimens were collected from 101 children admitted to the trauma unit of the Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital, Cape Town. The majority of the children were resident on the Cape Flats or in Mitchell's Plain. Examination of the stools showed evidence of parasitic infestation in 46 of the children, of whom 39 harboured Ascaris lumbricoides (8), Trichuris trichiura (11) or both (20). Cysts of Giardia lamblia were identified in 8 patients. These findings suggest that at least half the children living in a well-defined area of Cape Town may be at risk of complications from intestinal parasitic infestation.
Improving compliance in Xhosa psychiatric patients.	Compliance with psychotropic medication is particularly poor in Xhosa psychiatric patients. A study demonstrated that explicit and repeated verbal and written instructions did not increase compliance with oral medication, but that a single home visit, limited to giving instructions about medication, almost doubled the compliance rate (to 65%). Similar increases also occurred in relation to intramuscular medication and clinic attendance. The most common reason for noncompliance was found to be resistance to, or plain ignoring of, what was actually known (64%). Several possible reasons for this are proposed, the most significant being the patients' cultural and social attitudes and belief system. Recommendations for increasing compliance are given.
A methodology for resource allocation in health care for South Africa. Part I. Rationale and prerequisites.	A strategy for the equitable allocation of health care resources is needed in South Africa. The existing health administrative structures are obstacles to achieving this goal. An attempt is made to describe a framework in which the prerequisites for the equitable allocation of resources are a major restructuring of health services into a number of regional health authorities in a unified health service, and to establish a formula which is adapted from the RAWP (Resource Allocation Working Party) model used in the UK.
IgA nephropathy--Groote Schuur Hospital experience.	The prevalence of IgA nephropathy among 872 renal biopsies performed at Groote Schuur Hospital over a period of 7 years was retrospectively examined. Only 34 cases were shown to have IgA nephropathy. The features of these biopsies were compared with clinical and biochemical findings at the time of biopsy. The average age at histological diagnosis was 28.5 years (range 13-61 years); there were 25 males and 9 females. All patients had hematuria and in 44% it was macroscopic at some stage. Five of 25 patients in whom 24-hour urinary protein excretion was measured excreted more than 3.5 g/day. Histological changes ranged from mild proliferative changes (grade 1) to crescents and sclerosis (grades 4 and 5). There was a significant correlation between histological grade and serum creatinine (p less than 0.004) and proteinuria (p less than 0.005). The low prevalence of the disease in our total renal biopsy experience (3.8%) is similar to that reported from the United States (1.5) and England (4%). The age and clinical findings at the time of diagnosis were similar to most other series. The sex ratio was equal in the mixed-origin race group, while amongst the whites, males predominated. No IgA nephropathy was found in biopsies from blacks, which supports the observation of others that this condition is rare in the black population.
Reliability of the Frostig Test of visual perception in a South African sample.	The Marianne Frostig Developmental Test of Visual Perception was administered to 31 preschool children (19 boys and 12 girls) whose mean age was 68 mo. An item analysis showed that 52% of the test items satisfied the requirements with regard to degree of difficulty and discrimination. KR-20 reliability coefficients varied between 0.31 and 0.58 for the different subtests, with r=0.72 for the full scale.
Low frequency of adverse sequelae of obesity in South African rural black women.	In a series of 210 black women aged 25-45 years in a village in Eastern Transvaal, South Africa, 40 (19.0%) were obese, having a Body Mass Index (kg/m2) of 30 or more. Mean triceps skinfold was 23.5 mm; in 10 (25%) it was 25 mm or more) Hypertension (greater than or equal to 160/95 mm Hg) was present in 3 women (7.5%), hyperglycaemia (greater than or equal to 7.8 mmol/l) in 1 (2.5%), hypercholesterolaemia (greater than or equal to 5.2 mmol/l) in 3 (7.5%), and hypertriglyceridaemia (greater than or equal to 1.8 mmol/l) in 3 (7.5%). Dietarily, mean intake of energy was 2260 kcals, protein 73 g (12.9% energy), fat 55 g (20.8% energy), and carbohydrate 369 g (65.3%). In this context, of low fat, low animal food intakes, together with high physical activity, one or more of the adverse sequelae enumerated were present in 5 women (12.5%). Accordingly, in 35 women (87.5%), their obesity could be regarded as "healthy" obesity.
African Burkitt's lymphoma in the Cape province of South Africa and in Namibia.	The clinical features, incidence and pattern of jaw involvement, and seasonal occurrence in relation to 22 patients with Burkitt's lymphoma in the Cape province and Southwest Africa were analyzed. The mean age, male dominance, and pattern of organ involvement paralleled typical African Burkitt's lymphoma. Development of the patients' disease was more likely during the rainy season. The frequency and pattern of jaw involvement resembled typical African Burkitt's lymphoma. The frequency of jaw involvement was similar in white and nonwhite patients. Members of all racial groups had typical African Burkitt's lymphoma.
Molecular lesion in chronic granulocytic leukemia is highly conserved despite ethnic and geographical variation.	Leukemic cell DNA from patients with Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic granulocytic leukemia in the United Kingdom, Taiwan, and South Africa and of diverse ethnic origins all have identifiable molecular rearrangements of the breakpoint cluster region on chromosome 22 band q11 when screened with an appropriate DNA probe. This result reinforces the highly conserved nature of the molecular lesion in chronic granulocytic leukemia and its suitability as a diagnostic marker for the disease. Since the assay can be performed by sample referral on relatively small numbers of nondividing frozen or dead cells, it is ideally suited for large scale epidemiological and clinical studies, particularly in developing countries where karyotyping services are not readily available.
Trial of labor following cesarean section--a study of 212 patients.	Data on the trial of labor of patients with a prior cesarean section are largely confined to studies in the First World. These results and methods may not apply to patients in developing countries. This trial studied the management of rural patients with a prior cesarean section, and tested exclusion criteria in use at the base hospital. Of those allowed a trial labor, 52% delivered vaginally. No maternal or fetal mortality occurred, and the outcome suggested a place for the controlled trial labor in selected patients.
A cost-effective but safe protocol for the staging of invasive cervical carcinoma in a third world country.	The treatment and prognosis of invasive cervical carcinoma depends on proper clinical staging. The prestaging investigations are time-consuming and costly and 3rd world countries find it difficult to adhere to 1st world protocols. In the search for a more cost-effective but safe protocol for pre-treatment investigation the analysis of some of the special investigations performed on a total of 903 patients with invasive cervical carcinoma have proven beyond doubt that some of these investigations can be omitted without harming the patient. The Gynecologic Oncology Unit of the Tygerberg Hospital R.S.A. propose such a cost-effective protocol provided some criteria are strictly adhered to in safe-guarding proper health care.
The prevalence and transmission of hepatitis B virus infection in urban, rural and institutionalized black children of Natal/KwaZulu, South Africa.	The sera of statistically selected urban (805), rural (238) and institutionalized (127) black children were tested for markers of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. The age-standardized (6-14 years) prevalence rates of HBs antigenaemia for comparison between urban, rural and institutionalized children were 10%, 18.5% and 25.1% and the HBV exposure rates were 31.4%, 62.1% and 72.0% respectively. In the newborn to six years age group the prevalence rates of HBsAg and HBV exposure were 2.5% and 7.1% for urban children and 53.1% and 70.3% for institutionalized children. Peak prevalences of HBsAg occurred in the 6-8 year age group and were 14.4% and 22.6% in urban and rural children respectively. Hepatitis Be Antigen (HBeAg) was detected in 46.5% and antibodies to hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAb) in 10.0% of all HBsAg positive children. Multiple mechanisms involving horizontal rather than vertical transmission appeared to be important in urban children, with HBV exposure in females being significantly associated with ear-piercing (p less than 0.001) and scarification (p less than 0.05). In addition, HBsAg was detected in 25 of 29 pools of bloodfed mosquitoes caught at the children's institution and was negative in all four pools of unfed mosquitoes, suggesting that these arthropods may also be one factor in the horizontal spread of HBV infection. Familial clustering of HBV infection was suggested by a significantly higher (p less than 0.01) prevalence of HBsAg amongst family contacts of HBsAg positive urban children (17.7%) than in the control groups of family contacts of HBsAb positive children (8%) and children who were negative for all HBV markers (2.4%). The significance and implications of these findings are discussed.
Molecular genetics and Huntington's disease. The South African situation.	The finding of a polymorphic DNA marker for Huntington's disease offers the potential for preclinical and prenatal screening for this condition. However, before implementation of a programme of this nature in South Africa, certain technical, medical psychosocial and ethical considerations require careful appraisal. The current situation with regard to the importance and implications of this new technology to affected kindreds is reviewed and discussed.
Tetanus antibodies as a marker of potential efficacy of killed polio immunization.	The use of antibodies to tetanus toxin as a marker of efficacy of parenteral immunization was examined in a randomized sample of 1212 sera representative of the total black infant population of the RSA between 24 and 35 months. All but one of these sera had protective levels of antibodies measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In contrast, in a previous study only 59-80% had tritypic immunity to polio and 70-84% mono- or bitypic immunity. Thus, this serological marker was found to be unreliable and some possibilities for this remarkably high level of antitetanus antibodies are considered.
Evaluation of child health services at Gelukspan Community Hospital, Radithuso, Bophuthatswana, 1976-1984.	Since the independence of Bophuthatswana in 1977 many new services have been established. The policy of the Department of Health and Social Welfare to practise primary health care has been implemented step by step and special attention has been given to the well-being of infants and preschool children. During this period several parameters of child health have been monitored, such as mortality rates, nutritional status and immunization status. In a few years significant changes have taken place.
Urinalysis reagent strips in the screening of children for urinary schistosomiasis in the RSA.	The use of urinalysis reagent strips (Labstix; Ames) in screening for Schistosoma haematobium infection in various schistosomiasis-endemic areas of the RSA was assessed in 941 children. Sensitivity, specificity, false-positive and false-negative rates and the positive predictive value for haematuria and proteinuria were calculated. Both haematuria and proteinuria were positively correlated with the presence of S. haematobium eggs in the urine. Intensity of infection correlated positively with the degree of haematuria and proteinuria (P less than 0.001). The presence and intensity of S. haematobium infection were more closely related to the presence and degree of haematuria than to proteinuria. Screening for haematuria alone enabled 83.1% of S. haematobium-positive and 89.7% of negative subjects to be detected accurately. The false-positive rate was 2.7%. It was found that a single parameter, haematuria, could be used to identify infected children in endemic areas. It was also found to be possible to use the reagent strips to select out S. haematobium-infected children with egg counts greater than 200 ova/10 ml urine. The simple model developed allows rapid identification of moderately to heavily infected children and can be used by paramedical staff in field situations.
Neurofibromatosis in the South African Indian community--further evidence for heterogeneity?	Ninety-five members of three South African Indian families were examined for neurofibromatosis (NF) and 45 were deemed to be affected in terms of accepted diagnostic criteria. Analysis of the pedigrees revealed autosomal dominant inheritance with full penetrance. The absence of macromelanosomes in skin biopsies of café-au-lait macules and the failure to detect Lisch nodules (hamartomas of the iris) in this population group raises further evidence that NF might be a heterogeneous condition. The potential importance of heterogeneity in molecular linkage studies is emphasised.
Linkage analysis of British and Indian families with Von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis.	Linkage analysis has been undertaken in two British and three South African Indian families with Von Recklinghausen neurofibromatosis. Eleven polymorphic DNA probes were studied, including both random DNA sequences and candidate oncogenes. Although no evidence for linkage of these probes to the disease was detected, substantial exclusion regions were established on six of the chromosomes studied.
The relationship of the periodontal status to fluoride levels of alveolar bone and tooth roots.	The periodontal status and fluoride levels of alveolar bone and tooth roots were compared for subjects from a high (2.5 ppm F) and a low (less than 0.05 ppm F) fluoride area. The plaque index, gingival index, probing depth and loss of attachment were measured to determine the periodontal status. The fluoride levels were determined by the use of the fluoride ion-selective electrode. Both communities had high plaque and gingival indices. However, the mean pocket probing depths in both communities were less than 2.5 mm. No statistically significant differences could be found in the periodontal status between the 2 areas. The fluoride levels in bone and root were higher for subjects from the high fluoride area. No statistically significant difference could be demonstrated between the fluoride levels in alveolar bone and tooth roots for each area. It was found that the fluoride levels in bone and roots increased with increasing age, but to a lesser degree for subjects from the low fluoride area.
The impact of political violence on health and health services in Cape Town, South Africa, 1986: methodological problems and preliminary results.	Cape Town, South Africa experienced an upsurge in the level of political violence from May to July of 1986. To determine the impact of the political violence on health and health services, selected routinely available information was analyzed, a community survey was conducted of 1,540 randomly selected households in high, medium, and low impact areas (defined using police and community reports), and a survey of 162 nurses (75 per cent response rate) working in clinic and maternity services in Cape Town's townships was undertaken. Methodological problems were encountered in relation to sampling, interviewer allocation to areas, and access to routinely available information. Nevertheless, a consistent picture emerged from the studies that: demonstrated the impact of political violence on attendance at routine health service facilities (for hypertension, tuberculosis, immunizations, antenatal and postnatal services); highlighted the disruptions caused to basic services in high impact areas (water, street lighting, sanitation and transport); documented the problems experienced by nurses in performing their usual services and by patients obtaining access to their services; showed that high impact areas had three times higher rates of gunshot wounds than low impact areas during the period.
Newer veterinary neuropathological conditions in South Africa (author's transl)]	A brief review is given of some of the more recent findings on lesions of diseases affecting the central nervous system of animals. These include local diseases caused by poisonous plants; Helichrysum argyrosphaerum, Solanum kwebense, Matricaria nigellaefolia; infectious diseases e.g. heartwater, cerebral babesiosis and cranial abscesses in goats caused by Corynebacterium pyogenes. Reference is also made to some conditions, originally described in overseas countries and which subsequently have been diagnosed in South Africa. Original findings on lesions seen in mycotoxicoses caused by Fusarium moniliforme and Aspergillus clavatus are included.
Wounds of the abdomen. Part 1: In war.	Until the turn of the 20th century, penetrating wounds of the abdomen in war were treated conservatively, with a very high death rate. Survivors were those who recovered from or escaped hemorrhage and shock, were fortunate enough to avoid vital organ injury and lived in spite of wounds of the viscera complicated by a high incidence of sepsis. Laparotomy could not be justified as the treatment of choice until World War I when anesthesia, intravenous administration of fluids, blood for transfusion and antisepsis were available. Even so, death rates at the close of that war were 60%. It has become increasingly apparent with each successive war that the progressive reduction in morbidity and mortality in penetrating abdominal wounds depends not only on the quality of the surgery but also on advanced life support on the battlefield and early, direct evacuation to field hospitals where intensive resuscitation, skilled anesthesia and comprehensive postoperative care are available.
Resistance to various antibiotics of Salmonella and Escherichia coli isolated from registrable farm feeds.	Resistance to 20 antibiotics of 128 Salmonella and 97 Escherichia coli isolates from various registrable farm feeds was determined. A high frequency of comparatively low levels of resistance was found in both the Salmonella and E. coli isolates. This, together with an elevated frequency of multiple resistance, indicates that problems related to an effective transfer in bacterial populations of resistance to certain antibiotics are a distinct possibility. The addition of antibiotics, such as penicillin and tetracyclines, to animal feeds can create conditions for rapid selection amongst bacteria resistant to antibiotics. The numbers of resistant bacteria in the animal environment may be increased and may lead to the development of veterinary and human health problems from the possible transfer of antimicrobial resistance from animal pathogens to human pathogens or spreading in the human population of animal pathogens resistant to antibiotics. There is a need for caution in the use of antibiotics, particularly in animal feeds. Extended survey of, and epidemiological research on, farm feeds, manufacturing mills and animal production units are emphasized.
George Warwick Bampfylde Daniell, 1864-1937.	In 1907 Dr G. W. Bampfylde Daniell was the first doctor to be appointed an anaesthetist in a South African hospital. Little is known about his work, but due acknowledgement must be made to his pioneering efforts to place anaesthesia on a sound scientific basis, and to his various contributions towards making the specialty safe and comfortable. During his career in South Africa, he played an active role in the then Cape of Good Hope, Western Branch, of the British Medical Association.
Fatty acid composition of human milk from South African black mothers consuming a traditional maize diet.	Fatty acid composition of mature human milk of rural and urban black South African mothers was determined by gas-liquid chromatography. Rural mothers consumed traditional diets low in animal protein and fat, and high in carbohydrate and fibre. Urban mothers consumed more varied, partially westernized diets, and two-thirds were overweight. Plasma cholesterol concentrations were significantly lower in the rural group (3.64 vs 4.75 mmol/l, P less than 0.01). Milk of rural mothers contained significantly higher percentages of C10:0, C12:0, and total saturated fatty acids. Fatty acids C8:0-C14:0 synthesized de novo in the mammary gland were substantially higher in the milk of the rural mothers (24.7 vs 15.9 per cent). Conversely, the milk of the urban group contained higher percentages of monounsaturated fatty acids, 18:3 omega 3 and 20:2 omega 6. The ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids in rural samples was 0.36 +/- 0.13 compared to 0.41 +/- 0.15 in urban samples (P greater than 0.1). It is concluded that maternal dietary intake significantly affects milk composition, as demonstrated by the high percentages of fatty acids synthesized de novo in the mammary gland of rural mothers habituated to low-fat, high-carbohydrate intakes.
HLA class I and II antigens in South African Indians with NIDDM.	The relationship between the HLA system and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) in South African Indians, a migrant Indian group, was evaluated by testing HLA-A, -B, and -C antigens in 184 patients and 1444 control subjects and HLA-DR antigens in 104 patients and 330 control subjects. There was a significant increase in the frequency of HLA-Bw61 in patients compared with control subjects (27.7 vs. 18%, P = .00155), although the degree of association was not very strong (relative risk 1.7). A similar association has been noted in Fiji Indians, another migrant Indian group. However, no relationship could be established at the DR locus. It is suggested that the relatively high frequency of the Bw61 allele in South African Indians could, in the presence of some environmental factor like obesity, confer increased susceptibility to NIDDM.
Antigenic differences between stocks of Cowdria ruminantium.	Stocks of Cowdria ruminantium from Senegal, Zambia and South Africa were compared in cross immunity tests in goats. The Senegal stock caused fatal heartwater in three of 10 goats immune to the South African reference stock Ball 3, and five others showed significant febrile reactions and recovered spontaneously. Four goats immune to the Senegal stock did not show any reaction on challenge with Ball 3. The stock from Zambia was fully cross-protective with Ball 3 in experiments with three goats, but these three goats, immune to the Zambia stock and to Ball 3, showed severe febrile responses upon further challenge with the Senegal stock. The Senegal stock was highly virulent for Dutch goats and there were exceptionally large numbers of rickettsiae in brain capillaries after death. This stock has been passaged eight times in mice, without causing disease; the presence of the organism in the mice was shown by subinoculating goats. The Senegalese stock of C ruminantium is the first stock outside South Africa against which the reference Ball 3 stock does not fully immunise.
Evaluation of a facility for family medicine vocational training.	Vocational training for family medicine/general practice has been accepted and implemented in much of the Western world, and implementation locally is being investigated. A large public sector primary care service has been evaluated as a potential facility for providing part of a vocational training programme. The conclusions drawn are positive.
Culicoides species associated with livestock in the Stellenbosch area of the Western Cape Province, Republic of South Africa (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae).	A total of 33,564 Culicoides midges was collected in 44 light trap collections made at 22 sites in the Stellenbosch area during November 1986. Of the 23 species present in these collections 8 were frequently encountered namely, C. magnus, C. imicola, Culicoides sp. 49, C. zuluensis, C. gulbenkiani, C. pycnostictus, C. distinctipennis and C. nivosus. Although C. magnus was abundant at all trap sites, the prevalence of the other species appeared to be affected by the proximity of the light trap to different host animals and/or larval habitats. Plain-wing species and members of the C. schultzei group were rarely collected. The larval habitats of most of the above species were located by the use of tent-type emergence traps. All these habitats were found on irrigated pastures or where drainage water had accumulated. The difference in the requirements of the various species was associated with certain factors, such as degree of moisture, the type and amount of organic matter present and the particle size of the underlying soil. The identity of the blood-meals of 69 individual Culicoides belonging to 7 species was determined. The 5 commonest species had all fed on cattle and 4 of these on sheep. Two species, C. pycnostictus and C. distinctipennis were positive for bird blood.
The isolation of Campylobacter hyointestinalis from a pig in South Africa.	The isolation of a strain of Campylobacter hyointestinalis from a piglet is described. The animal originated from a farm where another animal showed signs of intestinal adenomatosis. The animal from which the isolation was made had diarrhoea, and an enteropathogenic Escherichia coli was also isolated. No pathological changes indicative of intestinal adenomatosis were detected in this animal.
A survey of Karoo tick paralysis in South Africa.	Recent research interest in Karoo tick paralysis and its vector. Ixodes rubicundus, prompted this survey to determine the economic implications of this disease. The survey indicated relatively high losses caused by the condition, identified the stock involved and provided data on the incidence of paralysis and on the control methods employed. Recommendations are made to institute chemical control earlier in the season to attempt better containment of the problem.
Cytopathology of the esophagus in Transkei.	Esophageal brush biopsy capsules were used to prepare exfoliative cytologic smears of 1,000 residents of low-, intermediate-, and high-risk areas for esophageal cancer in Transkei, southern Africa. Satisfactory smears were obtained from 96.4% of the persons screened. The technique used was rapid, simple, inexpensive, safe, and effective in the determination of the prevalence of dysplasia and early carcinoma and the progression rate of dysplasia to carcinoma. In the high-risk area, precursor lesions (esophagitis and cellular atypia) were detected in 24% of adults older than 35 years, dysplastic changes in 9%, and carcinoma in 2%. Dysplastic changes were also present in 7% of young adults (25-34 yr of age) and in 1.5% of persons 15-24 years old. Precursor lesions were detected in 16% of the population group between 15 and 24 years old. Dysplastic changes and other precursor lesions were significantly less frequent in the population from the low-risk areas. A total of 14 malignant cases were detected in 8 females and 6 males. Of these, 9 were histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinomas in various stages of differentiation. The progression of dysplastic changes to carcinoma was observed in 5 of the total 14 cases. Three early cancers were successfully treated by esophagectomy. Seasonal variation occurred in the prevalence of mild cytologic changes.
Cultural components of behavioural epidemiology: implications for primary health care.	In this article we discuss the association of culturally linked behaviour and epidemiology: that patterns of disease are significantly related to cultural sets of normative beliefs and behaviour. The literature on this is vast and includes much of what is written under the headings of Medical Anthropology as well as, for example, Cross-cultural Psychiatry and Medical Geography. A comprehensive review is obviously impossible, but as this is presented primarily as a background paper, basic issues are raised, and related to examples from the literature, to stimulate discussion. The article is divided into four subsections which give an indication of our focus: culture, disease and illness causation; utilization and provision of health resources; health, illness and normative socio-political and economic behaviour and primary health care, community participation and culture--implications for the future.
Socio-environmental factors and lung function.	The literature was reviewed to assess whether the evidence implicating socio-environmental (SE) factors as determinants of adult lung function was sufficient to require that they be taken into account in epidemiological studies, together with other factors, such as age and smoking. In six studies involving 11,000 adults resident in the USA, France and Denmark forced expiratory volume in 1 second was related to social class and/or one of a number of other factors including education, area of residence and housing status. Trends in three other studies involving approximately 15,000 children resident in the UK and the USA were similar. The consistency of the findings makes it difficult to escape the conclusion that SE factors should be taken into account in comparisons of lung function between populations when the purpose is to assess the role of other environmental factors such as occupational exposure.
Unusual presentation of malaria as a leukaemoid reaction. A case report.	In a 4-year-old black patient with Plasmodium falciparum malaria the diagnosis was established by observing plentiful gametocytes in the peripheral blood, although ring forms were very scanty. The blood picture was that of a leukaemoid reaction with severe anaemia, high total leucocyte count and thrombocytosis. Treatment with chloroquine and primaquine, together with packed red cell transfusions, was successful in eliminating both the malaria parasites and the leukaemoid blood picture. The rarity of malaria presenting as a leukaemoid blood picture is discussed.
Kaposi's sarcoma in different populations in South Africa.	Patients with Kaposi's sarcoma (13 black and 5 white heterosexuals and 2 homosexuals with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)) were investigated clinically, histologically, serologically and immunologically. Clinically, lymph node involvement was present in 9 of the 13 black heterosexuals, but was not seen in the other two groups. Oedema, which was seen in 13 of the 14 black patients, was only present in 1 white patient. The lesions were of the nodular cutaneous type except in the AIDS patients who presented with plaque-like lesions. Whereas all non-AIDS patients were negative for HTLV-III antibodies, both AIDS patients were positive and showed a marked cell-mediated immune (CMI) deficiency. Only 1 heterosexual white and 4 heterosexual black patients had some degree of CMI deficiency. South Africans with Kaposi's sarcoma do not have significant underlying immunodeficiency or associated opportunistic infections. No serological or electron microscopic evidence was found to support the aetiological role of cytomegalovirus in Kaposi's sarcoma. The findings suggest that the cell of origin of this tumour is the vascular endothelial cell.
The prevalence of hepatitis B viral markers in Bloemfontein anaesthetists.	A study was undertaken to determine whether the 48 anaesthetists in Bloemfontein have a higher rate of exposure to hepatitis B virus than comparable groups and whether active immunisation with hepatitis B surface antigen is necessary. Hepatitis B markers were detected by radio-immunoassay and the results analysed statistically. Hepatitis B markers were found in the sera of 36.17% of the anaesthetists and they had an 8-9 times greater prevalence of markers than employees of the local hospitals. Hence anaesthetists run a larger risk of contracting hepatitis B and its complications. It is recommended that non-immune anaesthetists be immunised.
Needs for special-care beds for the newborn in the Witwatersrand area.	The requirements for different levels of neonatal care in the Witwatersrand area were estimated from a review of neonatal unit records of all infants born at Johannesburg Hospital during 1983 and 1984. When extrapolating these figures to the greater population of the Witwatersrand and referral areas, adjustments were made for the increased number of low-birth-weight and complicated deliveries at Johannesburg Hospital. Given the low-birth-weight rate of 8% for this population, it was calculated that 3.3 intermediate-care beds and 1.2 intensive-care beds were justified per 1,000 annual live births. A total of 25 beds for mechanical ventilation of neonates were required over this study period, approximately double the number available. Facilities for other population groups, who have higher rates for low birth weight, were even less adequate. For the country as a whole it is recognised that postneonatal mortality is a greater problem amenable to less costly intervention than neonatal mortality; nevertheless, existing facilities for neonatal care should be used more efficiently, and a co-ordinated regional service for all population groups in the area should be established.
The needs and wants of the aged in East London. A preliminary survey.	A pilot survey was conducted among elderly white and black people in East London. The purpose was: to determine whether the facilities available to the white group in this area met their requirements or not; and in view of the scanty facilities for elderly blacks to make a pilot survey of areas of need before undertaking a comprehensive survey of current and future social and medical requirements. The results reveal some fundamental differences; 90% of whites v. 58% of blacks experienced problems with ageing. Loneliness was not a major feature in either group, but about 80% of both white and black single subjects were lonely. Threequarters of the whites but less than one-third of the blacks had a hobby and considered that they were fully occupied. Eighty-one per cent of whites and 40% of blacks saw a doctor regularly, and 88% and 47% respectively took medicine regularly. The white population was not abusing the medical services, but the reasons for the low figures for blacks are not clear. Both groups had a significant demand for spiritual help, emphasising the important role of the clergy in geriatric care. Accommodation was acceptable to 93% of whites but only 25% of blacks. Both groups resisted going to an old-age home, yet 93% of those in a home were happy. This pilot study has confirmed that the services rendered for the white population in East London are adequate, but there is an urgent need for an extensive study of the medical and social expectations and requirements of the black geriatric population.
Poison queries received during 1985 by the Regional Drug and Poison Information Centre, Durban.	The Regional Drug and Poison Information Centre at Addington Hospital, Durban, received a total of 3,177 requests for information on poisoning during 1985, with the highest incidence in August. The most common substances involved were prescribed medicines (895 calls, 28%) and household products (708 calls, 22%). The most frequent enquirers were hospital doctors (1,468 calls, 46%).
Ringworm of the scalp in children.	Scalp scrapings were collected from 651 children in the Cape Peninsula and along the Western Cape coast to determine which dermatophytic fungi occur in these areas. Fungi were isolated from 61% of specimens, by far the commonest being Trichophyton violaceum. Only half of these specimens showed fungal elements on direct microscopy. Among patients with scaly scalp lessons of varying severity the isolation rate was 64%, but dermatophytic fungi were also isolated from 16% of 50 asymptomatic children. Carriers of fungi without obvious ringworm may play an important role in the spread of the disease.
Prevalence of otitis media in a Venda village.	During mid-winter in 1985, 263 children and 217 adults from a remote rural community in Venda, were examined for the presence of middle ear lesions by: pneumatic otoscopic examination; tympanometry; and contralateral acoustic reflex. A diagnostic algorithm was applied to assess the findings. The prevalence of otitis media (OM) in children (less than or equal to 15 years) was 8.4% and in adults (greater than 15 years) 2.3%, with the highest figure in the 0-23 months age group. OM with effusion was found in 3.6% of the children. Our data suggest the existence of considerable differences in the prevalence of OM between comparable black rural communities.
South African tick bite fever]	Two male patients developed South African tick bite fever after visits to South Africa. The clinical and laboratory findings in this condition, which is rarely seen in central Europe, are presented and its differential diagnosis to other rickettsial diseases is discussed.
Inherited haemoglobin variants in a South African population.	We present the findings of a survey to determine the prevalence of inherited haemoglobin disorders in the Coloured (mixed ethnic origin) population of South Africa. A variety of haemoglobins was found. Of the structural variants, Hb E and Hb S were the most common, the former probably originating from South-East Asia and the latter from East Africa and possibly Madagascar. The alpha+ (-alpha) thalassaemia haplotype is particularly common with an observed frequency of 0.023. Beta thalassaemia was rather less common, while hereditary persistence of fetal haemoglobin was found for the first time in this population group, occurring in two subjects.
Parasites in sheep grazing on Kikuyu (Pennisetum clandestinum) pastures in the winter rainfall region.	Regular worm counts were done post-mortem on sheep that had grazed on Kikuyu pastures at the Elsenburg Research Station near Stellenbosch, a winter rainfall region. Major species were Trichostrongylus colubriformis, Trichostrongylus axei, while Ostertagia circumcincta was usually present in large numbers. Minor species were Haemonchus contortus, Nematodirus spathiger, Dictyocaulus filaria, Oesophagostomum venulosum, Trichuris spp., Chabertia ovina and larvae of the arthropod Oestrus ovis. Muellerius capillaris caused the formation of nodules in the lungs but were not counted. The trial started in April 1982 and was concluded in March 1984. One hundred and four sheep died or were slaughtered and 99 were examined post-mortem during this period. Total worm burdens rose to a peak of 88,763 (range 67,281-124,735) worms in March 1983, i.e. sheep mortality was such that the flock had to be treated with an anthelmintic in April 1983 to prevent further losses. Kikuyu pastures provide shade, form an excellent mat, the humus layer under the grass retains moisture and is an excellent incubator for preinfective larvae and a protector for infective larvae. If these qualities are combined with more than 100 mm of rain in spring and summer, Kikuyu pastures are a paradise for the free-living stages.
Some wild hosts of the Karoo paralysis tick, Ixodes rubicundus Neumann, 1904 (Acari: Ixodidae).	A variety of mammal and bird species in the Mountain Zebra National Park, eastern Cape Province, were examined for Ixodes rubicundus. In addition, caracal (Felis caracal) from the park and its vicinity as well as from the Graaff-Reinet region of the Karoo were examined. Amongst the animals collected, the red rock rabbit (Pronolagus rupestris) was a preferred host of the immature stages of the tick. Caracal were moderately good hosts of these stages and, with mountain reedbuck (Redunca fulvorufula) and eland (Taurotragus oryx), are the preferred hosts of adult ticks.
Menarche and sexuality among a sample of black South African schoolgirls.	This paper starts out with the assumption that human behavior is influenced by and can best be understood when viewed against a cultural background which gives context and meaning. Thus this discussion of menarche and sexuality starts off with premarital sexual socialization. It is from this traditional viewpoint that most urban residents come. The discussion then turns to the research sample studied in Pretoria, South Africa, during April 1985. Information dealing with physical maturation, sexual knowledge, and sexual activity is included, documenting a relatively uninformed population sample which is becoming increasingly more sexually active. Four studies of the same nature, between 1943 and 1969, are used here to derive a comparative picture on age at menarche and aspects of maturation. The next part of the paper deals with South Africa's Family Planning Programme and the knowledge and attitudes of this sample of Black schoolgirls is analyzed against the work done in that program. This includes general knowledge about pregnancy and attitudes regarding birth control methods. The final section of this paper deals with the attitudes of these female students as regards sexuality and the woman's control over her own sexuality both outside and inside a marriage relationship.
Histologically detected extrapulmonary tuberculosis in the head and neck region. A review of 222 cases.	During the 11-year period from 1974 to 1984, 222 cases of non-meningitic extrapulmonary tuberculosis in the head and neck region were seen at the ear, nose and throat departments of the academic hospitals of the University of Pretoria. A retrospective analysis revealed that three structures were mainly involved--the cervical lymph nodes, larynx and middle ear. The diagnoses were all confirmed on histological examination, revealing a positive biopsy rate for tuberculosis of 5% (222) of the total number of specimens submitted for the same period (4,357). Females had more cervical node involvement than males. Ninety per cent of all patients were black and the largest group was under 10 years old. A high index of suspicion of tuberculosis is important in the differential diagnosis of neck swellings, hoarseness and otorrhoea.
Paediatric psychology in general hospital practice.	The concept of paediatric psychology is relatively recent, having evolved in 1967 in the USA, largely within general hospitals, where paediatricians were faced with numerous childhood problems requiring comprehensive medical/psychological treatment approaches. The rationale was that psychological services should be focused where the majority of problems first present, i.e. in a medical setting rather than a psychiatric hospital. Against this background, the prevalence of childhood psychopathology, as encountered at a Pietermaritzburg general hospital, is discussed. However, the increasing demand for psychological consultations raises the issue of management of these children at other general hospitals, since very few employ psychologists.
Mortality rates among infants and young children born at home or in hospitals or clinics in rural Bophuthatswana.	Because the infant mortality rate in Gelukspan, Bophuthatswana, is relatively low, a study was conducted among 1,151 children born at home or in hospitals or clinics, to learn whether place of birth made a significant difference to any component of the infant or childhood mortality rate during neonatal (less than 1 month), infant (1-11 months) or preschool (12-59 months) periods. The rate for home births was significantly higher (P less than 0.01) when compared with that for clinic but not hospital births. The rate for neonates was significantly higher (P less than 0.05) but not for infants. This may well reflect lack of early contact with medical and paramedical staff in women delivering at home rather than at a clinic. This was not applicable to home versus hospital deliveries, but as difficult births are referred to hospital from the local clinics this may partly explain the lack of a significant difference between home and hospital deliveries. Cause of death may well be a further reason to encourage mothers to choose institutional rather than home deliveries.
Histocompatibility antigens in Indian patients with myocardial infarction.	The frequency of HLA-A, B, C and DR tissue antigens in 103 Indian men aged 40 years or under who had experienced a myocardial infarction was compared with the frequency in 760 healthy Indian controls. No significant differences in antigen frequencies were found. The findings in this study provide no support for either a genetic or an immunological basis for myocardial infarction in young Indian men.
Antibiotic-resistant pneumococcal disease in children at Baragwanath Hospital, Johannesburg.	Seventeen of 60 cases of pneumococcal bacteremia in children at Baragwanath Hospital in 1983 were caused by strains not fully susceptible to penicillin G. Eight strains had minimal inhibitory concentrations of greater than 1 microgram/ml and five were resistant to four or more antimicrobial agents. Only three isolates were resistant to chloramphenicol. Antibiotic-resistant strains occurred in younger children with a mean age of 13.1 months compared with a mean age of 31.6 months in children with susceptible strains (P less than 0.01). Underlying conditions, including nutritional status, did not correlate with antibiotic resistance of isolates from blood. Some of the resistant strains were apparently community-acquired. Of 3379 nasopharyngeal swabs taken from hospitalized children 829 yielded pneumococci and 408 of these carrier strains were either relatively or fully resistant to penicillin while 241 were resistant to four or more antibiotics. Multiply resistant strains from patients and carriers belonged to serovars 6A, 6B and 19A.
Three South African studies on the relation between road accidents and drivers' vision.	This report describes three studies of drivers' vision which have recently been carried out in South Africa. In the first, it was found that younger myopes constituted a substantial fraction of those drivers who failed to reach the acuity standards required for a South African driving licence: the acuity of almost all these drivers could be raised to an adequate standard by a proper refractive correction. In the second study, a comparison of the visual characteristics of a group of drivers who had been involved in accidents with those of a control group of accident-free drivers suggested that the former had mean acuities and depth perception which were worse than those of the accident-free group by small but statistically significant amounts. A third study, comparing the visual acuities of a group of randomly selected drivers with those of a group who had been involved in road accidents, showed that a higher proportion of the accident group had acuities which were below that required by the licensing authority.
Magnesium, calcium, sodium and potassium status in normotensive and hypertensive Johannesburg residents.	Serum magnesium, calcium, sodium and potassium, and erythrocyte magnesium, sodium and potassium levels were measured in a selected group of 296 urbanised black male labourers in Johannesburg. Of these, 214 subjects were normotensive and 82 were hypertensive. The aim of the study was to examine the relationship between serum and erythrocyte electrolytes, specifically magnesium and calcium, and blood pressure in this population sample. The results showed a significant decrease in serum magnesium, calcium and potassium in the hypertensive subjects. Red blood cell magnesium was significantly lowered and red blood cell sodium was significantly raised in this group. A significant inverse correlation was found between serum magnesium and blood pressure, erythrocyte magnesium and blood pressure, serum calcium and blood pressure, and serum potassium and blood pressure. A positive correlation was observed between erythrocyte sodium and blood pressure. Of all the electrolytes assessed, magnesium (serum and erythrocyte) correlated most closely with blood pressure. The data reported here suggest that body magnesium and its interactions with calcium, sodium and potassium may, in certain groups of individuals, play an important role in the development and maintenance of high blood pressure.
Variations in mortality of the coloured, white and Asian population groups in the RSA, 1978-1982. Part I. All causes.	Previous reports, based largely on the 1970 census and the 8th revision of the International Classification of Diseases, (ICD-8) have suggested that marked differences in mortality exist between population groups in the RSA. In this article the ICD-9 classification of causes of death and 1980 census are used to assess whether the trends have continued through to the present time. Total mortality data in the RSA for whites, coloureds and Asians for the 5-year period 1978-1982 are presented. The 1980 national census provided the denominator population data. Annual age- and sex-specific mortality rates were higher for coloureds than for whites or Asians, the differences being most marked in childhood. There appears to have been little change in total standardised mortality rates among whites over the 5-year period, while increases have occurred among coloureds of both sexes and among Asian males. Analysis of proportional mortality stresses the relatively large proportion of deaths accounted for by external causes and infections among coloureds and by cardiovascular diseases among whites and Asians. There is an urgent need for the health services to take note of these data in order to provide for the varied needs of the population.
Variations in mortality of the coloured, white and Asian population groups in the RSA, 1978-1982. Part II. Cerebrovascular disease.	An analysis was undertaken of mortality from cerebrovascular disease in the RSA between 1978 and 1982 in whites, coloureds and Asians. This article details the age-specific mortality rates for each group and also comparisons between groups based on age-standardised mortality rates. Marked differences are seen between the various population groups, the rates for Asians and coloureds (particularly females) far exceeding that for whites. Comparison of these data with those published previously by Wyndham suggest that while mortality from this cause may be falling among whites and Asians, the rate is remaining relatively static in the coloured population.
Variations in mortality of the coloured white and Asian population groups in the RSA, 1978-1982. Part III. Rheumatic heart disease.	An analysis was undertaken of mortality from rheumatic heart disease in the RSA between 1978 and 1982 in whites, coloureds and Asians. This article details the age-specific mortality rates (MRs) for each group and also comparisons between groups based on age-standardised MRs. The rates for Asians and coloureds markedly exceed those for whites, particularly in the lower age groups (under 45 years).
Medical psychology--its growth and development in South African medical schools.	New training models and programmes in the teaching of clinical psychology associated with medically applied psychology at medical schools are developing in South Africa. However, a recent survey showed that a minimum number of full-time clinical psychologists is employed by medical schools in South Africa. How the few who are so employed fare away from their 'home base' is also explored as well as what their contributions are in such settings and in providing medical psychological services in general hospitals. These findings are discussed with reference to a developing country such as South Africa. Methods are proposed to further enhance the development of medical psychology and the effective contribution of clinical psychology to medical and related education, and its functioning as a bridge across the body-mind dichotomy within promotive and preventive healing systems.
Selection of medical students--are all matriculation examinations equivalent?	The marks achieved by students vary significantly with the type of matriculation examination written. In particular, students who write the examination set by the Transvaal Education Department score significantly higher matriculation marks than other students but score the same in the first year at medical school as other students. These students have an undeserved advantage in the selection process.
'Abnormal' eating attitudes and behaviours among women students.	A prevalence study of attitudes and behaviours associated with anorexia nervosa and bulimia was carried out among female undergraduate students at the University of Cape Town. Findings were similar to those found in surveys overseas. More than one-tenth of respondents (11.8%) scored in the 'anorexic range' on the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT); more than one-fifth (21.9%) are at present binge-eating, and 6.3% using self-induced vomiting as a means of weight control. Use of laxatives, diet pills, fasting, strict diets and exercise was common. The findings are discussed within the context of sociocultural pressures on women to conform to a slim ideal shape and size. Sensitive management of the problem is needed.
Low-birth-weight infants in the Cape Peninsula. A follow-up study at the age of 3 years.	A sample of coloured children from the Cape Town City Council area who had been of low birth weight, although a weight appropriate for gestational age, was examined at the age of approximately 3 years. The children were compared with a control group of similar social background who had been of normal birth weight. Growth parameters were compared with the National Center for Health Statistics centiles. The low-birth-weight infants had compensated well. Although they were lighter, shorter in stature and had lower intelligence quotient scores than their normal-birth-weight contemporaries, when corrected for prematurity the growth parameters and IQ did not differ significantly from those of the controls. Six per cent of the preterm infants had major and 15% minor handicaps. Infants with very low birth weights (less than 1500 g) had no more handicaps than those with low birth weights. Iron deficiency was detected in 18% of the children overall but all those who were anaemic were from the low-birth-weight groups. Between 1 and 3 years of age the low-birth-weight infants had more illnesses but no more hospital admissions than the controls.
Some aspects of household diet and family income problems in Transkei.	Apparent levels of household diet, perceptions of diet and food production, rural water supplies, attitudes to birth control, and household incomes and expenditure of families in rural areas in Transkei were studied. The results revealed problems of deficiencies in family energy intake and low incomes, such that at least 40% of rural families were living in a state of poverty. There is urgent need for an integrated development approach aimed at fulfilling basic needs.
Osteopenia of the pelvis associated with Mseleni joint disease. Radiological aspects.	Mseleni joint disease, an endemic form of osteoarthritis (OA), is associated with osteopenia (OP). In a detailed investigation of the disorder, the degree of OP was assessed in 593 radiographs of the pelvis which were taken during surveys of four populations: rural blacks from Mseleni, rural blacks from Manguzi (a similar population to Mseleni), a black control group of rural Tswanas and a white control group from Johannesburg. Only females were included because the number of males in the rural populations was too small. The radiographic trabecular pattern was assessed at four sites: sacrum, ilium, pubis and ischium. Four grades were used: O = normal bone, 1 = minimal OP, 2 = definite OP, 3 = severe OP. The sum of the grades at the four sites made up the OP score for the individual. The OP scores increased with age in all groups, the age-specific mean OP scores did not differ in the non-OA subgroups of all four populations, and subgroups with OA had significantly higher age-specific mean OP scores than those without OA.
Some investigations into the nature and cause of massive fibrosis (MF) in the lungs of South African gold, coal, and asbestos mine workers.	Samples from fibrotic lung lesions greater than 1 cm in diameter macroscopically (by definition, massive fibrosis; MF) were taken from the lungs of 9 randomly selected post-mortem cases of mine workers all showing a background of a pneumoconiosis. These samples were studied histologically, biochemically, and by X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy. As controls for the biochemical and X-ray diffraction investigations, nonfibrosed lung tissue was taken from the same specimens. The findings suggest that the higher quartz content may be the primary cause responsible for the MF formation in this series of cases, while other factors such as tuberculosis may play a part according to some relevant literature on MF. Although an area of MF appears macroscopically to be a solid lesion, on microscopy this is not the case and the lesion is composed of dense and sparse collagen bundles and cellular elements.
Intestinal infections by Eimeria (s. l.) vanasi n. sp. (Eimeriidae, Apicomplexa, Protozoa) in cichlid fish.	Eimeria (s. l.) vanasi n. sp. is described from the intestine of a variety of cichlids in Israel and South Africa. Merogony and gamogony stages are both intra- and epiepithelial, Sporogony is exogenous with young zygotes being released from the fish in the faeces. Fully developed sporocysts are ellipsoid and apparently lacking both a Stieda body (characteristic of Eimeria s. st. and Epieimeria species) and a suture line (characteristic of Goussia species). In view of the present controversial generic status of piscine coccidia, the species is tentatively designated as Eimeria (s. l.) vanasi n. sp. (Eimeriidae, Apicomplexa, Protozoa).
Candida lyxosophila sp. nov., a new D-xylose fermenting yeast from southern Africa.	Six strains of an undescribed Candida species which ferment D-xylose tardily, were isolated from soil. A description of the new species, Candida lyxosophila, is given.
New basidiomycetous yeasts from southern Africa. II. Sterigmatomyces wingfieldii sp.n.	A new, insect-associated species of the emended genus Sterigmatomyces, St. wingfieldii, is described. A key to the emended genus is given.
Characterization of a new alpha zero thalassaemia defect in the South African population.	A new alpha thalassemia defect has been detected in the South African population. Restriction mapping of the alpha globin gene cluster in affected individuals has established that the defect is associated with the removal of 22.8-23.7 kb of DNA, including the psi zeta 1, psi alpha 1, psi alpha 2, alpha 2 and alpha 1 globin genes. The 5' endpoint of the deletion has been localized between the zeta 2 and psi zeta 1 globin genes, and the 3' endpoint lies 4-5 kb 3' to the alpha 1 globin gene. We have called the deletion - -SA in order to distinguish it from alpha zero thalassaemia defects described in other populations.
Antineoplastic agents, 122. Constituents of Combretum caffrum.	An investigation of the South African tree Combretum caffrum (Combretaceae) for antineoplastic constituents was conducted by employing the astrocytoma bioassay (9ASK). By this approach and a combination of solvent partition, steric exclusion, and adsorption chromatographic procedures, a substance designated combretastatin [1a] was isolated and found to display significant (71-90% astrocyte reversal at 1-100 micrograms/ml dose levels) astrocyte reversal and murine P-388 lymphocytic leukemia (PS) cell growth inhibition (ED50 0.011 micrograms/ml). The structure of (-)-combretastatin was elucidated by X-ray crystal structure analysis and confirmed by total synthesis. The absolute configuration at C-10 was assigned the R-configuration on the basis of Horeau esterification techniques. Other prominent, albeit PS-inactive, constituents were found to be 3,3',4'-tri-O-methylellagic acid [2] and acacetin [3].
Malignant breast tumours at Coronation Hospital, Johannesburg. A 10-year review.	A review of malignant breast tumours at Coronation Hospital has highlighted their frequency in younger women and their biologically aggressive nature. Inadequate patient compliance with follow-up makes routine use of conservative treatment modalities hazardous.
Hypertension management in a Cape Peninsula coloured community. A retrospective medium-term assessment.	A retrospective study of the records of a large hypertension clinic at a primary care centre was carried out for the period 1975-1984. A total of 250 patients were selected from a systemic 1-in-2 sample. The objectives were to establish the degree of control, compare the use of a large arm blood pressure (BP) cuff with a standard one, and determine the prevalence of associated diseases and the cost of drug therapy. The mean systolic BP was 163.2 mmHg, with 45% of patients having a systolic BP below 160 mmHg. The mean diastolic BP was 101.2 mmHg with 13% of patients having a diastolic BP below 95 mmHg. The majority of patients were overweight and the large BP cuff was found to be useful.
Variations in mortality of the coloured, white and Asian population groups in the RSA, 1978-1982. Part IV. Respiratory diseases.	Respiratory diseases are major causes of death in South Africa. The reported mortality rates (MRs) for: (i) pneumonia and influenza; (ii) chronic obstructive lung disease and allied conditions; (iii) pulmonary tuberculosis; and (iv) carcinoma of the lung and bronchus over a 5-year period are examined in relation to age, sex, ethnic group and year. Such data have not previously been reported in South Africa. MRs for all respiratory diseases (except lung carcinoma) were substantially higher in coloureds than in whites or Asians. In each ethnic group and for each disease category, MRs for males were higher than for females, especially in those over the age of 24 years. For all, except lung carcinoma, MRs were highest at the extremes of life. Changes in respiratory disease MRs over the 5-year period were examined by calculating the age standardised MRs for each condition in each of the 5 years. There was a clear decline in the MR for pneumonia over this period in all groups. The MR for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease rose in all groups, except Asian females. Similarly, the MR for carcinoma increased in all groups, except white females. The MR for tuberculosis was highest in coloured males (10 times greater than in Asian males and 100 times greater than in white females). The pattern of respiratory disease MRs in white South Africans is very similar to that in the USA, whereas in coloureds MRs for infectious diseases remain high and are added to by the burden of cigarette smoking-related deaths.
Antigenic relationship of West Nile strains by titre ratios calculated from cross-neutralization test results.	The antigenic relationship of ten South African West Nile isolates, the South African prototype virus H442, the Egyptian strain EG101 and the Indian strain G2266 were compared using titre ratios. The titre ratios or 'R' values were calculated from heterologous and homologous neutralization titres and expressed as a percentage. Substantial antigenic differences were demonstrated between the South African prototype strain and the majority of the recently obtained South African isolates, seven of which were fairly closely related and possibly form a distinct antigenic sub-set. The recent isolates also differed from the Egyptian and Indian West Nile isolates. The heterologous results between the South African West Nile strains and the Indian strain G2266 suggest that prior infection with an Indian West Nile virus would give poor protection against the South African viruses, whereas the reverse would not be so.
Deficiency of the sixth component of complement and susceptibility to Neisseria meningitidis infections: studies in 10 families and five isolated cases.	Complement component C6 deficiency (C6D) was diagnosed in 15 patients who presented, independently, with recurrent meningococcal infection. This condition is thus not particularly rare in the Cape. Ten of the patients belonged to multiplex families, and family studies led to the diagnosis of another 12 C6D cases among the siblings. Segregation analysis showed that C6D occurred more frequently among the siblings of affected individuals than would be expected for co-dominant inheritance. The possible reasons for this are discussed. We also observed that the 12 non-proband C6D siblings included only four with a history suggestive of meningococcal infection, and thus C6D individuals apparently differ in susceptibility to Neisseria meningitidis infection. We confirmed previous observations that primary infection occurs later in C6D individuals than amongst susceptible complement-sufficient individuals. Among 123 patients presenting with primary meningitis, one case of C6D was diagnosed. The data show that C6D is an important factor associated with susceptibility to meningococcal infection in the Cape.
National disasters and the veterinarian.	A general introduction detailing background information concerning the term "disaster" is presented. A discussion of pertinent legal guidelines and an overview of the possible role of the veterinarian, firstly as a paramedical assistant and secondly as a veterinary public health official, is presented.
Traditional and modern medicine in South Africa: a research study.	This paper examines the relationship between traditional and modern medicine with reference to an experimental research study conducted in South Africa, which focused on interviews by traditional Zulu healers and modern clinical psychologists with the same group of psychiatric patients. Results indicated that while traditional and modern practitioners worked from different theoretical orientations, they were in significant agreement as to both diagnosis and treatment of patients when faced with the same limited choice of options. Furthermore, patients perceived both traditional and modern practitioners as being more or less equally helpful. Results are compared with those of other studies. Local and international implications for the relationship between traditional and modern medicine are discussed.
Further observations on social factors associated with duodenal ulcer in Soweto.	It has been postulated that urbanisation is an important factor in the genesis of duodenal ulcer. This study of 100 duodenal ulcer patients, and 100 hospital controls, matched according to sex, age, education and occupation, and an additional 50 unmatched endoscopically negative controls, confirmed that duodenal ulcer patients were mainly young men who were more likely to have been born in an urban area than the controls. Furthermore, a significant number of duodenal ulcer patients were born and reared in the smaller towns of South Africa and then moved to Soweto. It is suggested that frustrated aspirations in these towns might even be greater than in Soweto. In the context of the Soweto population where occupational and educational status is generally low, duodenal ulcer patients were of a higher educational and occupational category than Sowetans and unselected controls. Thus factors associated with urbanisation such as education and occupation and the pattern of urbanisation play key roles in duodenal ulcer. Investigation into particular aspects of the work situation such as the degree of autonomy exercised at work, authority over others and attitudes to supervision yielded no significant results.
Regional variations in tuberculosis policy in the Cape and Ciskei.	Regional variations in tuberculosis policy in Cape Town, Paarl and Ciskei, as well as problems experienced by health workers, are examined. South African policy is compared with modern trends and recommendations drawn from the international literature and is found to conform in many respects, although tuberculosis services are not always integrated with curative services. The most marked variation occurs in Ciskei, where policy requires hospitalization of as many patients as possible. The majority of problems in implementing policy relate to lack of funds and medical infrastructure.
The implementation of tuberculosis policy in three areas in South Africa.	The implementation of tuberculosis policy at hospital and clinic level was examined in three areas (Cape Town, Paarl and Ciskei). Investigation showed that bacteriological diagnosis, standardized treatment regimens, supervision of therapy and contact tracing were not being correctly implemented. Compliance was also poor.
Tuberculosis--the patients' perspective.	This, the last of three studies examining aspects of tuberculosis (TB) control in South Africa, ascertained the views of the consumer--the TB patient. Aspects such as the impact of contracting TB on employment opportunities and social life, difficulties in getting treatment, and knowledge of TB were studied in a sample population of urban black working-class TB patients. Patients had difficulties in getting treatment at centralized points, and health education was not effective. Poor socio-economic conditions were also important in the experience of the TB sufferer.
Attendance compliance for short-course tuberculosis chemotherapy at clinics in Estcourt and surroundings.	The attendance compliance records of 50 consecutive patients with pulmonary tuberculosis referred to clinics in a rural area for supervised short-course chemotherapy showed that clinics in the remote areas had a much lower compliance rate than those in the town. This appeared to be partly due to poor in-service training, lack of encouragement, low morale and poor motivation of health personnel. The lack of communication and co-ordination between health authorities has resulted in an inefficient and unassessed policy and programme in the treatment of tuberculosis in rural areas. The study showed that the tuberculosis treatment programme in this rural area lacks overall co-ordination and is inefficiently administered. As a result patients are not treated effectively.
Mortality rates of black infants in Soweto compared with other regions of South Africa.	Mortality rates (MRs)/100,000 for 1980 were calculated for black infants under 1 year of age for all causes of death and for the leading causes of death--gastro-enteritis, ill-defined causes, perinatal conditions, and the pneumonias--in three regions, Soweto, the 34 'selected' magisterial districts (all urban) and the rural areas in the RSA. The results showed a low MR for all causes of death (2813,7/100,000) and a low ranking of gastro-enteritis (third) in Soweto. In contrast the infant health situation in the 34 'selected' magisterial districts showed an MR from all causes of death which was three times higher (8,594/100,000) than in Soweto and gastro-enteritis was the leading cause of death with an MR 10 times higher than in Soweto. If the infant deaths and infant population in Soweto are subtracted from these figures in the 34 'selected' magisterial districts the MR is 10,156,8/100,000. Valid comparisons between the MRs of the rural areas and either Soweto or the 34 'selected' magisterial districts cannot be made. The MRs of the causes of death in the rural areas of 3,456/100,000 are palpably incorrect and due to under-reporting. An estimation of the under-reporting is that at least 20,000 infant deaths in rural areas were not reported in 1980, compared with the 14,327 deaths which were reported.
Community-based infant and child mortality rates for peri-urban Pietermaritzburg.	Infant and child mortality rates outside of hospital practice are not widely available for the black population of the RSA, since identification and recording of births and deaths within the community has not been widely established. This community-based study of peri-urban Pietermaritzburg is compared with similar studies covering other areas of the RSA. The recent literature is evaluated with a view to determining possible approaches to reducing mortality rates among infants and children under 5 years in the RSA.
Day hospital fees and accessibility of essential health services.	Day hospital fee increases in April 1984 were followed by a fall in hypertensive, diabetic and asthmatic patients' attendances at the Bishop Lavis Day Hospital. The majority of the patients attending less often for treatment were not receiving medical care elsewhere, which resulted in a large number of hospital admissions with increased financial and long-term health costs for the patients. Increases in patient fees at the day hospitals have been far in excess of the inflation rate over the past 10 years, and a review of the tariff structure is required to bring fees to levels which are affordable by low-income patients.
A geriatric service in East London.	The background and establishment of a geriatric service in East London are described. Data relating to 37 admissions for geriatric assessment to the long-stay wards at Frere Hospital and 250 patients dealt with by the District Surgeon's community geriatric service staff are analysed to indicate the multifactorial nature of the assessments and care provided. Taken in conjunction with previous experience elsewhere, the indications are that effective services for care of the aged can be developed without special facilities, by re-allocation of some duties of existing staff and without vast capital expenditure. Certain recommendations are made for the development of an effective network of services for hospital-based care of the aged throughout the RSA.
Towards a national health service for South Africa. A personal view.	Circumstances are propitious for a new look at the Gluckman Report of 1942-1944 with a view to introducing a national health service for South Africa, including the homelands and national states. The circumstances relate to the ethical question of the patient's medical care, without economic disadvantage, being paramount in a health care system. Other issues concern doctors in a salaried service; a burgeoning population; the high cost of health care to the individual patient and to the State as a result of a proliferation of health bureaucracies. The issues are compounded by economic decline, unemployment and adverse socio-economic factors, which militate against the privatization of health care.
Cholinesterase variants in a South African population.	Results of cholinesterase studies in 56 white and 22 black patients in Bloemfontein hospitals who developed suxamethonium apnoea between March 1974 and April 1985 are reported. Genotypes of patients and families are compared with figures for the UK and Denmark. A higher incidence of the silent cholinesterase allele is confirmed; the incidence of other variants is similar. Black patients were found to be only of the silent genotype.
The influence of air pollution on health in the Sasolburg area]	Excessive air pollution by industries in the Sasolburg area is suspected of affecting the residents' health in general and the respiratory system in particular. In the present investigation children from primary schools at Sasolburg were compared with those from the neighbouring rural towns of Parys, Heilbron and Frankfort, all with negligible air pollution levels. Although no important differences in the incidence of respiratory illness were evident from the questionnaire administered, there was a significant difference in the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) of boys in the two groups. In addition there was an observed trend for all lung functions to be slightly worse in the study area. This trend seemed to be unaffected by the smoking habits of families but the social class from which the children originated might have been a contributory factor.
Progressive familial heart block. Part I. Extent of the disease.	Progressive familial heart block (type I) has been identified in the RSA. Since 1977 many families have been referred for pedigree tracing. The present probands of some 9 pedigrees are the descendants of specific children of an immigrant; other genetic diseases appear in these pedigrees. The necessity of identifying, diagnosing and possibly treating the descendants of carriers is emphasized.
Progressive familial heart block. Part II. Clinical and ECG confirmation of progression--report on 4 cases.	Two types of progressive familial heart block controlled by a single gene have been described; 4 cases show that type I is progressive and that the pathogenesis is still unknown.
Maxillary molar occlusal polygons in five human samples.	Angular and linear measurements of maxillary first molar occlusal polygons are given for young San (Bushmen), Sotho, Asiatic Indians, Whites, and Papago Indians. Angular and linear measurements are inseparably related. Much greater variation occurs in widths than in lengths. Maximum variation occurs between San and Papago. Papago maxillary first molars are separable from Old World molar samples in two of four angles and eight of 13 indices.
Immittance screening in black preschool children attending day-care centres.	Immittance screening was performed on 736 black children between the age of 2 and 6 years attending four day-care centres. It was found that 14.9% of these children failed the immittance screening. Problems encountered when attempting to apply the available standard immittance screening pass/fail criteria to a specific black race group are discussed.
Community health service planning in the education of medical students.	Few medical students gain practical experience in practical epidemiology during their undergraduate years or understand how this science is a prerequisite to decision-making in the health services. In an attempt to overcome this deficit a group of clinical students was asked to measure the incidence of cerebrovascular disease in the Cape Peninsula over a relatively short period in order that rehabilitation facilities could be planned for affected patients. The exercise proved extremely fruitful for both the staff and the students. For the latter it not only met the objectives outlined above but also forced them to enter the community and so gain a perspective of all health services provided. We suggest that this technique, which can be applied to many topics, is a useful way of introducing students to these important concepts.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. XX. Arthropod parasites of the Cape mountain zebra (Equus zebra zebra).	The arthropod parasite burdens of 14 Cape mountain zebra (Equus zebra zebra), shot for survey purposes in the Mountain Zebra National Park in the eastern Cape Province, were determined. Three species of Gasterophilus larvae and 9 ixodid tick species were recovered. Larvae of Gasterophilus pecorum were the most numerous of the fly larvae recovered and Margaropus winthemi was the most abundant tick. Two horses examined in the park were infested with 3 species of Gasterophilus larvae and 7 species of ixodid ticks.
Paracooperia horaki n. sp. (Nematoda: Trichostrongylidae) from the nyala Tragelaphus angasi Gray, 1849.	A new species of Paracooperia Travassos, 1935 was found in small numbers in the small intestines of 36 out of 68 nyala Tragelaphus angasi Gray 1849 in the Mkuzi, Ndumu and Umfolozi Game Reserves, Natal. The worms, for which the name Paracooperia horaki is proposed, can be differentiated from the closely related Paracooperia devossi Boomker & Kingsley, 1984 by the absence of ridges on 1 of the branches of the spicules, the slightly longer branches of the tips of the dorsal ray and the large hemispheric knobs on the ends of the spicules. Furthermore, the branch of the spicules that bears the hook-like process is about two thirds the length of the spicule in P. devossi and almost the entire length of the spicule in P. horaki. The ovigerous females of P. horaki have 2 or 3 expanded ridges in front of the vulva that form vulvar flaps. The females without eggs resemble those of P. devossi and have only a single vulvar flap.
The relation of climate and topography to gastro-intestinal nematode worm egg counts of Angora goats in the Eastern Cape.	Haemonchus, Trichostrongylus, Ostertagia and Nematodirus worm populations of Angora goats, based on differential egg counts, are considered in relation to climatological and topographical data. Egg counts indicated that the estimated worm populations in goats that experienced wet circumstances were higher than those exposed to dry conditions. Wetness was assessed by relating spring, summer, and early autumn rainfalls to ground slope. It is proposed, that tactical anthelmintic treatments of goats be based on the degree of wetness of the grazing or property.
Views on the future of veterinary education.	In briefly reviewing the history of veterinary education, particularly that in England, the enduring influence education has on the achievements and status of the profession is emphasised. The sound influence of the first teachers in South Africa, under the guidance of men like Theiler and subsequently du Toit, on veterinary education is outlined. The changes that have taken place in the face of altered demands, from that required by a predominantly State-employed profession to one consisting mainly of private practitioners but with ever-expanding fields of activity, necessitates continual attention to thorough teaching in the basic subjects, to the discipline as against the species approach--the latter being of value, however, when applying preventive medicine to herds/flocks, to a uniform undergraduate curriculum, and to foreseeing and providing adequate, specialised post-graduate education. The present under-graduate course has been extended from five to five-and-a-half years and the South African student enrollment to 90/a. Furthermore, more time will be found by already starting the teaching of Anatomy in the first year, thus providing for a final year of "student-internship". A completely newly planned faculty complex at a more favourable site is a necessity; clinical assistants will haevto be employed. More attention must be given to Public Health and Food Hygiene. Facilities for training Black studnets is a first priority in providing for additional student enrollment. Despite all modern teaching aids, the teacher must always play a vital key role.
The South African Veterinary Association: glimpses from 75 years of service to veterinary science.	The South African Veterinary Association originated with the formation of the Transvaal Veterinary Medical Association in 1903. The amalgamation of the three existing provincial associations under a joint constitution in 1920 formed a body representing the veterinary profession in the whole of South Africa. Throughout the past 75 years the SAVA has served as representative for the diversity of interests of the profession. The aims and major contributions of the Association, past and present, as well as the challenges of the future, are outlined.
The South African Army Veterinary Services]	The history of the South African Military Veterinary Services is outlined from the time the first veterinarian, Thomas Burrowes, attached to the 8th Light Dragoons, set foot in the Cape in 1799, until the end of World War II. It summarises the extensive literature published mainly by Curson in previous issues of this Journal and extends it to include the period of that war.
Sero-genetic studies on the San of South West Africa.	The San, a physically, culturally and linguistically distinctive people, have been shown by archaeological records anciently to have inhabited the whole of Eastern and Southern Africa. They, in common with the Khoi, the other members of the Khoisan race, are confined now to Southern Africa and principally to Botswana and South West Africa, though a number are also found in Angola. Sero-genetic data concerning seven South West African groups are presented in this study, and confirm a shared overall genetic profile characteristic of the San in general, slightly different from that of the Khoi and in significant contrast with that of the Negroes.
An outbreak of caprine listeriosis in the Western Cape.	Listerial meningo-encephalitis (circling disease) is reported for the first time in ruminants in South Africa. An account is given of the clinical signs, pathology and bacteriological confirmation of the disease.
The isolation of Brucella abortus biotype I from African buffalo in the Kruger National Park.	The isolation of Brucella abortus from free living wild africal buffalo (Syncerus caffer) in the Kruger National Park, South Africa, is described. The four isolates testes proved to be biotype I and it is speculated that the origin of brucellosis in wild animals is from domestic stock.
Protein energy malnutrition and nutritional anaemia in preschool children in rural KwaZulu.	The prevalence of protein energy malnutrition (PEM) and nutritional anaemia was investigated in 392 black children, aged 13--60 months, living in a poor rural area. Breast feeding was practised extensively in the population (median duration 14 months). The overall prevalence of PEM was 16,4%, but severe PEM occurred in only 2,7% of the children. Anaemia was present in 6,7% of children, and was almost invariably associated with iron deficiency. Biochemical evidence of iron, folate and vitamin B12 deficiency was detected in 36%, 14,8%, and 0,3% of children respectively. Anaemia was almost confined to the 1-year-old group, but biochemical evidence of iron deficiency, while highest in this age group, continued into the 2-4-year age group. No relationship was found between ecological factors such as income, educational status, etc. and any of the anthropometric, biochemical or haematological variables. The prevalence of PEM and anaemia in these poor rural children is lower than that of a comparable group of underprivileged urban children, thus emphasizing that city slum conditions are producing considerable nutritional problems in their wake. It is of importance to investigate further why some children who are severely deprived in many ways do not necessarily manifest a proportional degree of nutritional deprivation.
Smoking, drinking and oesophageal cancer in African males of Johannesburg, South Africa.	A study of the smoking and drinking habits of 196 oesophageal cancer cases and 1064 control patients was made. All subjects were African males aged 35 years or more, drawn from a mainly urbanized population.It was found that tobacco smoking was prevalent and that pipe tobacco (used in pipes or in hand rolled cigarettes) was used more frequently than has been found in westernized countries. The drinking of alcohol was also a prevalent habit. Tribal affiliations were examined and all three of these factors showed differences between cases and controls. Further analysis of smoking and drinking together showed that only smoking had a positive association with oesophageal cancer, and this was also true after tribal adjustment had been made. A comparable analysis of data on Durban African males yielded similar findings.It was concluded that tobacco smoking was a powerful oesophageal insult but the authors were not able to show that alcohol was important in the development of oesophageal cancer in these people. Cigarette tobacco does not appear to be a significant oesophageal insult but pipe tobacco does, and the use of both these types of tobacco together may have a synergistic effect. Tribal affiliation has bearing on the smoking pattern.
On the risk of multiple sclerosis according to age at immigration to South Africa.	In a national prevalence study of multiple sclerosis (M.S.) in the Republic of South Africa based on census day 1960 there were 118 individuals with M.S. who were born in Northern Europe (United Kingdom and other parts of North and Central Europe) and who had emigrated to the Republic by 1960. Their prevalence rate was 49 per 100,000 immigrants in comparison with a prevalence of 11 per 100,000 among native-born English-speaking white South Africans.To study the possible effect of age at immigration it was necessary to relate the M.S. immigrants to the appropriate denominator-the population at risk according to age at immigration. The population at risk by age at immigration has been estimated by two methods in an indirect fashion with the assistance of the Bureau of Census (1960) and by surveys of the population at risk 1968-9. Both studies suggest that the risk of developing M.S. was reduced to less than a third of the expected risk among those who immigrated under the age of 15 or 16.This study is further evidence that M.S. is an acquired exogenous disease, the precise nature of which is still not certain but, according to present knowledge, has as its leading contender the class of slow, latent, or temperate viruses.
Plasma free fatty acids in pregnant insulin-independent Natal Indian diabetics.	A study was undertaken in Natal Indians to determine the insulin secretory response and the comparative degree of free fatty acidaemia in normal and insulin-independent diabetic pregnant women. The fasting plasma FFA and glucose levels were found to be substantially greater in the diabetic subjects. The pattern of plasma FFA and glucose response to exogenous insulin was similar in both groups. Endogenous insulin produced a similar FFA response, but a markedly obtunded blood sugar response occurred among the diabetics despite adequate plasma insulin levels. The significance of the differential effect of endogenous insulin on FFA and glucose metabolism in pregnant insulin-independent Natal Indian diabetics is discussed.
Cerebral palsy in Cape Town: a comparative 12-year retrospective study.	Three hundred and thirty-one Coloured and 175 White children with cerebral palsy, born between 1964 and 1975, were compared as regards aetiology and changing incidence over two 6-year periods. The following were the main points which emerged: (i) there is an apparent decrease in the total number of White children with cerebral palsy born in the second 6-year period, but for reasons discussed, there is probably little or no true decrease; (ii) there is a significant increase in the total number of Coloured cerebral palsied children born in the second 6-year period, due mainly to an increase in cases of cerebral palsy of perinatal origin, particularly cases of perinatal asphyxia; (iii) there is a high incidence of acquired cerebral palsy in both racial groups, but this is significantly higher amont the Coloured; (iv) ther is no racial difference in the incidence of cerebral palsy in babies of low birth weight; (v) both racial groups have a fairly high incidence of cerebral palsy due to kernicterus. It is interesting to speculate whether improved obstetric and neonatal care and the resultant lowering of perinatal mortality produce more handicapped babies.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. X. Helminths in impala.	Two to four impala in the Nylsvley Nature Reserve were culled each month from February 1975-February 1976. Two trematode species, 1 cestode species and 13 species of nematodes were recovered from these antelope. Of these, Fasciola gigantica, Gongylonema pulchrum, Haemonchus placei and Trichostrongylus falculatus are new records for impala. In general, H. placei, Longistrongylus sabie and Impalaia tuberculata exhibited a similar pattern of seasonal occurrence. Adult worms were present during November-February, while marked inhibition in the development of large numbers of 4th stage larvae occurred from April-September or October. Cooperia hungi, Cooperioides hamiltoni and Cooperloides hepaticae followed a similar pattern, but inhibition in the 4th larval stage was not as marked and lasted from June-September. No seasonal pattern of prevalence could be determined for Trichostrongylus spp. The worm burdens of young impala increased with the age of the animals and reached a peak when the impala were 1 year old.
The coloured elderly in Cape Town--a psychosocial, psychiatric and medical community survey. Part III. A survey of physical disorders and disabilities.	A representative sample of elderly Coloured persons (over the age of 65 years) in the community underwent a medical and psychosocial assessment of prevalent physical disorders and resultant disability. This revealed that hypertension, visual impairment, osteo-arthritis and chronic lung disease were the most prevalent and disabling conditions, while hearing impairment and major neurological disorders played a lesser role. Most of the individuals claimed that they had little or no disability, while 10 felt they were only moderately disabled and 21 (14,9%) that they were severely disabled. The number of disorders ranged from 2,08 in those claiming no disability to 3,28 in those who were severely disabled. Profiles of the results of biochemical investigations resembled those of other aged populations, serum cholesterol, creatinine and alkaline phosphatase levels being raised. The pattern of medical care was also examined, including medication and the use of local facilities.
Diverticular disease of the colon. The first of the Western diseases shown to be due to a deficiency of dietary fibre.	Diverticular disease of the colon is a new disease that appeared at the beginning of this century. It is now the commonest disease of the colon in the Western world, being found in 1 in 3 people of over 60 years of age. The pathogenesis of the disease involves excessive segmentation, but this does not explain its aetiology. The historical appearance of the disease on the clinical scene and its geographical distribution suggest that it is due to the removal of fibre from carbohydrates. The author treated 70 patients with symptomatic diverticular disease with a high-fibre diet. The results of this and the effects of bran are discussed.
History of medicine. Alphonse Loewenthal (1903-1983)--the uncrowned king of dermatology in Africa.	The career and achievements of Dr L. J. A. Loewenthal, M.D., F.R.C.P., as a dermatologist in Africa are sketched. He made notable contributions to local dermatology. Starting in 1931 in Uganda with studies on tropical ulcer and vitamin A deficiency, he ended his career in Johannesburg 40 years later with investigations on the skin of miners. Over this period it is doubtful whether any dermatologist on the African continent equalled his accomplishments.
Myeloid leukaemoid reactions in South African Blacks.	Myeloid leukaemoid reactions were observed in 18 Black adults and 20 Black children at Baragwanath Hospital, Johannesburg, during a 10-month period. This represented an incidence of 1,3/1 000 adult medical admissions and 3,7/1 000 paediatric medical admissions. During the same period the incidence of myeloid leukaemoid reactions in White children in Johannesburg and in Black and White children in Buffalo, NY, was less than 1/1 000 admissions. The reactions were associated with bacterial infections, neoplasms, hepatorenal failure, acute metabolic disorders and non-malignant blood dyscrasias. The mortality in adults was 55,6% and in children 35%. Sixty-five per cent of all deaths occurred within 24--48 hours of admission. Residual morbidity in survivors was common. The pattern of acute leukaemia in the same hospital population is predominantly myelocytic in both adults and children.
Experience with amniocentesis at the Johannesburg Amniocentesis Clinic in 1976.	One hundred and seventy-six amniocenteses were performed in the Johannesburg Amniocentesis Clinic in 1976. These were for genetic studies, assessment of fetal lung maturity and assessment of the severity of rhesus disease. The indications for amniocentesis and the results are discussed. The overall complication rate was low. This was due to certain precautions and approaches taken, which are detailed.
Sexual counselling of the family.	The general practitioner's important role as a counsellor on sexual matters is stressed. The psychosexual development of an individual is discussed. Some neglected conditions where family counselling may be required are presented, together with suggestions for the management of the sexual aspects of chronic illnesses and conditions.
Arthrography of the shoulder in anterior dislocation: a study of African and Asian patients.	Arthrography of the shoulder was performed in 16 consecutive cases of primary anterior dislocation and in 11 cases of recurrent dislocation. All the primary dislocations were in African Negro patients and showed an unusually high incidence of capsular rupture rather than labral detachment. It is suggested that this is due to stronger soft tissue attachment to bone in Africans, resulting in fewer labral detachments and thus accounting for the low incidence of recurrent dislocation in the African populace. The series of recurrent dislocations, consisting of African and Asian patients, confirmed the low incidence in Africans but demonstrated labral detachment and humeral head defects common to both racial groups.
Long-term effects of kwashiorkor on psychomotor development.	The long-term effects of kwashiorkor on psychomotor development were assessed by means of 3 tests. A group of 31 children aged from 6 to 12 years, who had been hospitalized for the treatment of kwashiorkor during infancy, was age-matched with 2 control groups, consisting of a group of siblings and a group of yardmates, none of whom had been exposed to acute infantile malnutrition. The test scores for the groups were not significantly different. The results are discussed in the light of suggestions that marasmus has a more damaging effect on human development than kwashiorkor.
A profile of general practitioner obstetrics.	The pattern of obstetrics as practised by general practitioners in a small country town over a period of 22 years is reviewed. The importance of dedicated nursing staff is emphasized, and an appeal is made for the establishment of maternity units distinctly separate from general hospitals.
Skin tumours in White South Africans. Part I. Patients, methods and incidence.	A survey of all skin tumours recorded in Whites in a dermatological practice in the southern Transvaal is presented. Nearly a quarter of the 15 000 consecutive patients seen over a period of 7 years complained of skin tumours. They were considered to be a representative sample of the population, since their occupations compared well with those of White South Africans in general. The relative frequency of skin tumours is shown in detail. Sun-induced tumours are common, solar keratoses occurring in 10% of all patients, basal cell carcinomas in 4%, kerato-acanthomas in 1% and squamous cell carcinomas in 0,5%. Seborrhoeic keratoses, cellular naevi, polyps, cysts, angiomas and histiocytomas are also commonly seen; patients with these complaints often seek medical advice for cosmetic reasons.
Skin tumours in White South Africans. Part II. Age and sex distribution.	The incidence of skin tumours according to age and sex is analysed. Sun-induced tumours occur most commonly in persons between the ages of 50 and 69 years. One half of malignant melanomas are seen at ages following the decline in incidence of junctional and compound naevi. Squamous cell carcinomas occur earlier in males. Histiocytomas are seen earlier and spider angiomas later in females. Tumours occurring predominantly in males include squamous and basal cell carcinoma, kerato-acanthoma and pyogenic granuloma. Histiocytoma and spider angioma are seen more often in females.
Skin tumours in White South Africans. Part III. Distribution of skin tumours on the body.	The distribution of the commoner skin tumours is detailed according to body site. Cutaneous horns, keratoacanthomas, Bowen's lesions and squamous and basal cell carcinomas occur mainly on exposed areas, confirming the importance of sunlight in their causation. However, a quarter of the Bowen's and over half the superficial basal cell carcinoma lesions are seen on covered areas, indicating that these tumours are both distinct entities. That seborrhoeic keratoses, intradermal and compound naevi, haemangiomas and lentigines were most often seen on the face may simply reflect the fact that patients often seek cosmetic help for these complaints. Distributional analysis suggests that cellular naevi on the trunk are much more likely to cause malignant melanoma than those on exposed areas.
Skin tumours in white South Africans. Part IV. Influence of occupation, sun sensitivity, colouring and associated skin tumours on the incidence of skin tumours.	Outdoor and industrial occupations in the southern Transvaal do not increase the incidence of any skin tumour excepting that of squamous cell carcinoma. However, they accelerate the onset of solar keratoses and squamous and basal cell carcinomas. A fair, sun-sensitive skin, red hair and blue eyes are more important factors predisposing towards the development of skin cancer. Unduly large numbers of seborrhoeic keratoses were found in association with polyps, and of intradermal naevi with both cavernous haemangiomas and lentigines. A high proportion of solar keratosis was found in both squamous cell carcinoma and Bowen's disease, and of basal cell carcinoma in superficial basal carcinoma, but the reverse associations were not significant.
Obstetrics and gynecology in the undergraduate medical curriculum]	In the present situation where medical curricula are being re-examined by many medical faculties, the importance of obstetrics and gynaecology in the undergraduate curriculum has come under intense scrutiny. Obstetrics and gynaecology form a major part of the general practitioner's work, and should therefore form a major part of his medical training. The subject also stresses par excellence the importance of communication with patients, preventive medicine and special responsibility of the medical practitioner to the community. Every department of obstetrics and gynaecology must examine the contents of the course presented to its students. We must move away from the old mechanistic approach and concentrate on those aspects which are important in a modern society--antenatal and postnatal care, preventive measures, family planning, and sexual and psychological problems of our patients.
Osteitis deformans in the South African negro. A report of 3 cases.	Osteitis deformans is a relatively common disease in Caucasians, but rare in the indigenous people in Africa. Three cases of Paget's disease occuring in South African Negroes are reported here. Gene marker studies confirmed the absence of Caucasoid genes in these patients.
Primary intracranial tumours in Black and Indian children, 1960-1975.	This report of cerebral tumours in 60 children admitted to the medical wards of King Edward VIII Hospital, Durban, shows that cerebral tumour is the commonest solid neoplasm in both Black and Indian children. There is a significantly lower incidence of cerebral tumour in Black children. No difference was apparent in age, sex ratio, site or histological types in our racial groups compared with studies in White children from other parts of the world.
New statistical review of skin diseases in the Western Cape]	Statistics concerning dermatological disease in outpatients seen at the dermatology clinic at Tygerberg Hospital during 1975 are presented. The greatest number of patients suffered from bacterial, mycotic or parasitic infection. Acne also features high on the list. Except for the photodermatoses and acne, the difference in racial incidence of certain skin conditions, as published by Marshall and Heyl in 1963, is confirmed. More women than men were seen. This might be explained by the fact that, owing to working obligations, men often find it more difficult to attend outpatient clinics during the day. The greatest number of patients seen ranged in age from 20 to 60 years.
Incidence, contributory factors and costs of pressure sores.	Although pressure sores are an increasing problem in long-term medical care, the magnitude and costs of the complication are not well documented. In this article an investigation of the pressure sore problem in a general hospital is described. The incidence of patients with pressure sores was found to be 4,5% of the total patient population, with an additional 5,2% showing signs of skin discoloration from excessive or prolonged pressure. The majority of patients with sores were over 60 years of age, incontinent, immobile and White.
Handling of highly infectious material in a clinical pathology laboratory and in a viral diagnostic unit.	The handling of potentially lethal and highly infective material in a routine clinical pathology laboratory and in a viral diagnostic unit is detailed. Extensive precautions were taken at each step of the receiving, processing and disposal cycle. Disposable protective clothing and apparatus were used whenever possible. Laboratory tests were limited to those essential for the clinical management and diagnosis. Technologists who handled infective material were limited to minimal numbers of experienced, non-pregnant, informed volunteers. They wore special protective clothing, including gloves, caps, gowns and masks. When possible, specimens were handled under special protective hoods. Potentially infective material was processed through automated apparatus, and care was taken to prevent contamination of its exterior. The effluent from the machines was collected into viricidal agents (glutaraldehyde, sodium hypochlorite). After processing, the machines were flushed extensively with viricidal solution. This procedure has caused no damage to the automated equipment and has been adopted as a routine laboratory safety measure. The protective procedures adopted were successful in that there was no outbreak of the viral infection among the associated laboratory workers.
Radiology and the law in South Africa.	In terms of regulations gazetted in 1973, the Department of Health has control of the practice of medical radiology in South Africa. The regulations and the rules of the South African Medical and Dental Council that apply to radiology are discussed, and the legal position of workers is noted.
Four years' experience with South Africa's first mobile accident unit.	The mobile accident unit manned by medical staff is not a new concept, yet for a variety of reasons it has not been widely used. The first such service in South Africa was initiated by the author, and 4 years of successful duty have now been completed. Facts relating to our experience in this period are presented to illustrate the need for and the viability of such units. These facts and figures have been divided into 3 sections: incidents, patients and injuries, and treatment. The article is concluded with a discussion of the wider implications of using such a unit.
Osteoarthritis in some developing countries.	Only a few studies on osteoarthritis (OA) have been performed in developing countries. They all concern African populations. OA occurs less frequently in developing populations. Whether this is due to genetic or environmental factors or to selective forces like an excessive mortality at younger ages, is difficult to decide. Development of criteria for clinical degenerative joint disease is recommended. Furthermore studies are proposed on the geographical distribution of specific joint OA, the concept of generalized OA, the pattern of joint involvement, the natural history of degenerative joint disease, and the role of occupation, sports, and environmental factors.
HLA antigens in White and Black South African diabetics.	The HLA A and B specificities in 72 Whites with type 1 or juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus (JOD), 53 Blacks with type 1 diabetes or JOD and 52 Blacks with type II or maturity-onset diabetes (MOD) were determined and compared with those in 278 Whites and 311 Blacks who were not diabetic. In Whites with JOD, frequencies of HLA A1 and B8 antigens were significantly increased, whereas those of the A3 and B17 antigens were reduced. Blacks with JOD had an increased frequency of HLA B8. By contrast, in Blacks with MOD the antigen frequencies were not significantly altered. The D-locus antigens Dw3 (DRw3) and Dw4 (DRw4), which bear the strongest associations with JOD in Whites, need to be examined in Black South African diabetics.
Rotavirus infection in Black and White newborns.	Rotavirus infection in asymptomatic Black and White newborns in maternity hospitals was studied by electron microscopy of stools. None of the 37 White and 30 (49%) of the 61 Black babies excreted rotavirus (P less than 0.0005). The high incidence of neonatal infection in Blacks, who have a low incidence of rotavirus diarrhea in infancy, suggests that neonatal infection might result in immunity.
Perspectives on acute gastroenteritis in black South African infants.	In developing countries, gastroenteritis is the major cause of infant mortality; however, owing to inadequate laboratory facilities and personnel, little is known about the status of enteropathogenic agents, especially rotavirus. Disease patterns differ between developed and developing communities, and rotavirus plays a markedly lesser role in the overall etiology of the disease in developing than in developed countries--where it is one of the major etiological agents. This may be due to extensive exposure to rotavirus in developing communities during and soon after the neonatal period, causing inapparent or mild clinical infection that could result in immunity during the significant target age of 6 to 24 months. This immunity may have important implications for immunization. However, immunoprophylaxis should be secondary to an improvement in socioeconomic conditions. The dramatic reduction in incidence and mortality of gastroenteritis seen in the Black urban populations of Johannesburg and Cape Town was a direct result of improvements in nutrition, housing, sanitation, etc.
The coloured elderly in Cape Town--a psychosocial, psychiatric and medical community survey. Part II. Prevalence of psychiatric disorders.	A study of the prevalence of psychiatric disorders among 139 non-institutionalized Coloured persons aged 65 years and over was undertaken. Standard instruments, namely the Present State Examination and the Mini-Mental State Examination, were used with modifications. Dementia was judged to be present in 8.6% and severe in 3.6% of the subjects. Other psychiatric disorders (apart from alcoholism) were present in 24%, depression being the most common (16.5%). The prevalence of paranoid illness (2.2%) may be partly explained by the high rate of alcoholism among the men (15%). Most of the 16% who had previously received psychiatric inpatient treatment were judged to be disordered at present, and a relatively small proportion of the respondents (6%) were currently on psychotropic medication, with only 1 subject receiving antidepressants.
An anthropometric survey of the nutritional status of black preschool children in the Dias Divisional Council area, May 1981.	The nutritional status of 1468 Black preschool children in a rural Eastern Cape area was assessed anthropometrically in order to provide the Department of Health and Welfare with a critical evaluation of the effectiveness of its subsidized skimmed milk powder scheme for local authorities in combating kwashiorkor, to indicate factors which influence nutritional levels, and perhaps to provide a sound theoretical and empirical foundation for future health strategies. Weight and height for age (using the norms of the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS], weight for height, and triceps and subscapular skinfold thickness were used as criteria for assessing nutritional status. Stated age and certified age groups were assessed separately. Depending upon the sex and stated/certified age, the percentages of children falling under the third percentile ranged from 11,1% to 37,0% for NCHS norms and from 10,9% to 15,7% for skinfold thicknesses. Together with an urban assessment undertaken in December 1982 the survey may indicate where local problems will occur.
The UCT class of '32--50 years on.	In 1982 several members of the 1932 final-year M.B. Ch.B. class of the University of Cape Town met for a golden anniversary dinner. Apart from its nostalgic significance, it provided an opportunity to compare the career choices of that era with those of today. Unlike present graduates, 50 years ago graduating doctors tended not to specialize and tended to enter rural areas to practise. The significance of these changes for local medical manpower needs is discussed.
Studies on plague in the eastern Cape Province of South Africa.	Investigations were carried out in the area of a human plague outbreak in March 1982 at Coega in the eastern Cape Province of South Africa. Trapping revealed that rodent populations were high owing primarily to a population increase of the four-striped mouse, Rhabdomys pumilio. Flea populations were low and had been declining in the eastern Cape Province since October 1981. The results of a serological survey from March to October 1982 showed haemagglutinating antibody to Yersinia pestis in 0.35% of 5938 dog sera and 0.53% of 1132 small mammal sera. Plague antibody was detected in two small mammal species, R. pumilio and the vlei rat, Otomys irroratus. There was thus evidence that a small, limited rodent epizootic preceded the human plague cases and it appears that at least one human case was contracted from an infected domestic cat. The extent of the enzootic area was confined to a coastal belt north of Port Elizabeth and showed a close correlation with river courses. It was concluded that the Port Elizabeth-Uitenhage focus was in an inter-epidemic phase and that the human plague outbreak was an isolated incident.
Bovine parafilariasis at the Cato Ridge abattoir: Sex prevalence and districts of origin.	Records indicate that Parafilaria bovicola-infested cattle slaughtered at the Cato Ridge abattoir originate from certain areas not previously recorded. Furthermore, moderate to severe infestations are diagnosed significantly more frequently in the entire male bovine than in female animals or oxen (castrated males). The data under review cover the period March 1981-August 1982, a period of 18 months.
Genetic observations on the taxon Anopheles (Cellia) pharoensis Theobald (Diptera: Culicidae).	A photomap of the ovarian polytene chromosomes from Anopheles pharoensis is presented. The arrangement shown is that found in populations from Zululand, South Africa, and represents the arbitrary standard for the taxon. Two X-chromosome arrangements exist in samples from allopatric natural populations. Crosses between females homozygous for the inverted arrangement, Xa, and males carrying the standard arrangement, X+a, give F1 males that are sterile. Females from this cross, and both males and females from the reciprocal cross, are fertile. The simplest hypothesis is that the two X-chromosome arrangements mark two species within the taxon An. pharoensis Theobald. The practical implications are briefly discussed.
Absence of 'true' minimal change nephrotic syndrome in African children in South Africa.	Minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) which is a well defined clinical, histopathological and therapeutic entity accounts for the majority of childhood nephrosis throughout the world except Africa. We describe 15 (13%) of 115 biopsy-confirmed African children with nephrotic syndrome who had minimal change on light microscopy. These are compared to 42 biopsied Indian children with typical MCNS. The critical differences between African children and children with classical MCNS were the lack of a predictable response in eight of the former to steroids and cyclophosphamide and in a later peak age of presentation (7-8 years). These patients differed in most respects from minimal change seen in the malarial zones of North Africa except for clinical presentation. Minimal change in West and East Africa more closely approximates typical MCNS. Two of the African patients with minimal change had endemic syphilis and responded clinically to penicillin therapy. The clinical presentation in all the African children, the favourable short-term outcome in 12 of these patients, immunofluorescent (13 patients) and electron microscopic (three patients) findings, and selectivity of proteinuria (eight patients) paralleled that of classical MCNS. The implications of this study are that African children in South Africa with MCNS should not be treated with steroids or cyclophosphamide. There is no clear benefit in the use of these drugs in nephrotic children with obvious glomerular lesions and therefore it follows that such therapy should be avoided in all African children in South Africa with this disease.
The incidence pattern of certain cancers in the RSA]	The numbers of patients treated for seven types of carcinoma during 1977 at 10 hospitals in South Africa have been reviewed. The total number of patients admitted to the 10 hospitals in 1977 was 286 373. Slightly more than 1%, namely 3 409, of these patients suffered from carcinoma of the cervix, oesophagus, breast, lung, liver, stomach or colon. Carcinoma of the cervix was commonest among Black patients and carcinoma of the colon among Whites. The relative incidence of the different types of carcinoma among Whites was almost the opposite of the sequence among Blacks.
Isolation of Mycoplasma hominis from genital ulcerations of patients in Eastern and Southern Africa.	In three separate surveys involving 413 patients in Mbabane (Swaziland), Nairobi (Kenya), and Carletonville (South Africa), Mycoplasma hominis was isolated from the base of ulcers in 41 (16%) of 251 men with genital ulcer disease. Antibodies to M. hominis were detected by indirect hemagglutination in 89 (51%) of 176 such patients. Of these male patients, 15% and 6% had indirect hemagglutinating antibodies at titers of greater than or equal to 160 and greater than or equal to 640, respectively. The rate of isolation of M. hominis and the results of serologic tests for antibodies to this organism were the same whether or not a cause of genital ulcer disease was identified.
Transplantation - the Johannesburg experience. Current status and prospects for specific tolerance.	The experience, both clinical and experimental, of the Transplantation Service of the Johannesburg Hospital and Transplantation Research Unit of the University of the Witwatersrand is briefly reviewed. Results of clinical transplantation have not improved in recent years. However, selection of donor-recipient combinations with negative lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity and positive B-cell antibody cross-matches predicts success in over 90% of cases. Positive lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity cross-matches are associated with a prohibitive rate of graft loss from rejection. The goal of transplantation research is the production of specific immunological tolerance for the graft without the need for using permanent immuno-suppressive drug therapy which is responsible for the major cause of death after transplantation, namely infection. Studies to produce tolerance in the chacma baboon are briefly reviewed. Of all methods of immune modulation studied, none has approached in efficacy and predictability the current work involving total lymphoid irradiation and donor bone marrow infusion. This method holds out great promise for clinical application.
Mucopolysaccharidosis (Hunter's syndrome) in a black family.	A black patient who presented with the clinical features of a mucopolysaccharidosis is described. Biochemical investigations showed that the proband had type II B mucopolysaccharidosis (Hunter's syndrome), and a family study revealed that a further 2 males were affected. This suggested that the inheritance was hemizygous for the X-linked gene and that the mother was the obligate carrier. Documented cases of mucopolysaccharidosis among Blacks are uncommon in the literature.
Paediatric problems in a rural area of south africa. A study in southern Lebowa.	Paediatric problems in children under 5 years of age seen at Jane Furse Memorial Hospital in southern Lebowa during 1980 are discussed. Major problems are gastro-enteritis, protein energy malnutrition and respiratory disease. Inadequate local food production and poor standards of basic hygiene are major contributing factors to illness. These are aggravated by administrative problems and lack of medical personnel. More attention needs to be paid to attracting South African doctors to homeland hospitals and to training primary health care nurses to work in these areas.
Economic aspects of smoking in South Africa.	Costs and financial gains related to smoking and assessed in terms of health, financial, agricultural and social factors are presented. It is argued that the sum of the costs exceeds that of the financial gains. Methods of reducing the smoking rate by decreasing tobacco production as well as tobacco consumption are suggested.
Rheumatoid factor in non-rheumatoid black patients.	A total of 301 Black patients without rheumatic diseases was studied to estimate the prevalence and causes of positive rheumatoid factor. The latex slide test was positive in 25% of patients and 21% had a 'diagnostic' titre of 80 or more. A significant relationship between gamma-globulin levels and rheumatoid factor positivity was demonstrated. IgG appeared to be the most important in determining this relationship. The most common ailments among sero-positive patients were cirrhosis and tuberculosis.
Chloramphenicol binding to normal and kwashiorkor sera.	The binding of chloramphenicol to normal and kwashiorkor sera was investigated in vitro. Chloramphenicol is predominantly albumin bound, although a significant degree of binding to the other major protein fractions occurs. From the clinical view point, a decreased degree of binding of kwashiorkor serum (+/-5%) is not of significance.
Aspects of suicide]	A review of relevant publications with reference to epidemiological data and their application to predictive profiles of at-risk populations regarding suicide and attempted suicide is given. It is indicated that suicide and parasuicide are to be seen as sociocultural problems with a complexity of contributing factors. Conscious and subconscious motives play a part within a psycho-existential continuum with intrapsychic, interpersonal, biological, psychological and social components. This spectrum of individualized components and the social impact of the deed present the clinician with a psychiatric emergency for which he must be adequately equipped. Management based on a team approach is delineated.
The J. S. Marais Surgical Laboratory - 21 years old.	The J. S. Marais Surgical Laboratory celebrated its 21st birthday in 1979, but research in the Department had been in progress for more than 40 years. For much of this time, the principal supporter of research in the Department of Surgery was Professor Louw and this short review is offered as part of his Festschrift.
Factors contributing to a reduction in anaesthetic mortality.	A substantial improvement in anaesthetic mortality has been noted at Coronation Hospital; the reasons for this are discussed. The factors considered include lethal circumstances associated with the use of suxamethonium and fentanyl; improved ventilation monitoring and postanaesthetic surveillance; a technique in the resuscitation of bleeding patients aimed at conserving the intravascular contents; and the management of dehydrated patients. The dangers associated with the induction of anaesthesia in a head-up position are considered and alternated means are suggested.
The present status of heterotopic cardiac transplantation.	In the period November, 1974 to May, 1980, 30 patients underwent heterotopic heart transplantation at Groote Schuur Hospital. One patient subsequently underwent retransplantation for rejection. There were no operative deaths. Fifteen patients are alive 4 months to almost 5 1/2 years after transplantation. The 1 year survival rate has been 61%. Three of six patients have survived for more than 4 years. Eight of nine patients whose initial transplant operation was performed during the past 18 months remain alive. Seven patients died from infection, five from rejection, and three from other causes. The advantages of heterotopic over orthotopic heart transplantation, in particular in allowing patients survival even after graft destruction by irreversible rejection, are discussed.
President J. H. Brand and his medical history]	During his term of office of 25 years (1863-1888) Johannes Hendrikus Brand, fourth President of the Orange Free State, proved himself a remarkable statesman of international stature. Born in the Cape Town of Lord Charles Somerset he was educated in the British tradition, and later received knighthoods from both Portugal and Britain. However, in converting his young embryonic state into South Africa's 'Model Republic' he showed himself to be a staunch republican. Total loyalty towards his country of adoption was aptly demonstrated by his uncompromising stand over the British annexation of the diamond fields in 1871. While preparing to put his case before the Colonial Secretary in London, he developed Bright's disease at the age of 49 years in August 1872. After an extreme illness lasting 5 months he appeared to recover fully. His subsequent health was excellent up to the end of the next decade when he developed symptoms of heart failure, epistaxis and possibly a cerebrovascular incident. In March 1888 his two Bloemfontein doctors, C. J. G. Krause and B. O. Kellner, in consultation with Dr Leander Starr Jameson (of Jameson Raid fame) diagnosed a recurrence of his kidney ailment and progressive heart disease. His death on 14 July 1888 was probably due to acute left ventricular failure as a late hypertensive complication of glomerulonephritis.
High blood pressure-the silent killer.	Hypertension is an issue of international and national importance. The aetiology of hypertension is conjectural. However, its treatment must be regarded as one of the strongest weapons against coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular episodes and renal failure. Thus therapeutic compliance has become a major problem. Because only a small proportion of the population is receiving treatment a modular system, perhaps a tertiary health system, should be developed. The primary prevention of cardiovascular disease must be the ultimate goal and is clearly our most cost-effective strategy.
Measles mortality and ethnic groups.	Measles is a relatively unusual disease in that the fatality rate is very low in modern Western populations, while in 'virgin soil'--isolated populations of other races or ethnic groups--mortality rates may exceed 25%. Possible explanations for this difference are examined, including genetics, culture, epidemiology and malnutrition. All four factors, especially differences in nutritional state and in culture, might have a significant effect in increasing mortality rates for measles in Black Africans. The cultural milieu can be exceedingly influential and must not be overlooked by doctors treating Black patients.
Intrauterine-pressure studies in African nulliparae: normal labour progress.	Uterine activity was measured in 29 nulliparous African women, who were in the active phase of spontaneous labour, and who were delivered vaginally without supplementary oxytocin. A fluid-filled intrauterine catheter, an external strain gauge and a pressure-curve integrator were used to quantitate uterine activity. The rate of dilatation of the cervix from entry to the study to full dilatation of the cervix was greater than 1 cm/h; this constituted normal labour progress. In nulliparous African women the minimum level of uterine activity likely to be associated with a cervical dilatation rate of 1 cm/h was 1200 kPas/15 min and the median uterine activity level in the active phase of normal labour was 1824 kPas/15 min.
Intrauterine-pressure studies in African nulliparae: delay, delivery and disproportion.	Uterine activity was measured in 43 African nulliparae who were in the active phase of spontaneous labour and in whom delay in cervical dilatation had occurred. Details of labour were recorded on a partogramme, on which an alert and an action line had been drawn, and which were 2 h apart. Delay was defined as a cervical dilatation rate of less than 1 cm/h. Uterine activity was measured with a fluid-filled intrauterine catheter, an external strain gauge and a pressure-curve integrator. The uterine activity levels which were observed in association with delay are considerably less than those associated with normal labour progress. The uterine activity levels that were associated with pitocin augmentation after the action line and which resulted in vaginal delivery have been analysed. They were similar to the levels observed in normal labour. The uterine activity levels which were associated with 'failure to progress in labour' beyond the action line have also been analysed. It is argued that a minimum uterine activity level of 1800 kPas/15 min is required to fully test the cephalopelvic relation.
Umbilical hernia in Xhosa infants and children.	During the period 12 March 1980 to 10 March 1981 a consecutive series of 1200 Xhosa (Black) infants and young children, ranging in age from the newborn to the prepubertal, who attended the general outpatients department for a variety of medical complaints were examined for umbilical herniation. None had undergone any surgical operation, and patients with conditions possibly associated with umbilical herniation were excluded. Evidence of umbilical protrusion was found in 742 (61.8%), with a similar incidence in males and females. The overall incidence was reflected in each age group by a preponderance of children with umbilical hernia. This study confirms the validity of a generally-held impression that in Black children there is a strong tendency towards the persistence of umbilical hernia when it appears after separation of the cord.
The malignant phase of essential hypertension in Johannesburg Blacks. A prospective study.	During a 1-year period all Black patients admitted to two medical wards in the Johannesburg General Hospital were screened for malignant hypertension. Of the 62 patients eligible for inclusion in the study, 51 were thought to have essential malignant hypertension (hospital prevalence 2,2%). There was a striking absence of the cardiovascular and hypertensive risk factors usually described -- excessive smoking, alcohol consumption and obesity. The presenting features and complications were similar to those described in other series. Cardiac failure was present in 45% of the patients, neurological complications in 33%, and advanced renal failure in 47%. Twenty patients required dialysis. No evidence of ischaemic heart disease or atheromatous vascular disease was found. Red cell fragmentation was present in 25% of the patients. The hospital mortality rate was 25%. Only 24% of the patients had previously been diagnosed as having hypertension, although 43% had been examined by a doctor during the preceding 2 years. Of the patients discharged to the hypertension clinic, only 28% returned for short-term follow-up. Malignant hypertension is therefore a major medical and social problem in the Johannesburg Black community.
Myocardial infarction in an intensive care unit for blacks. A review over 6 years.	Ischaemic heart disease seems to be on the increase in South African Blacks, and medical staff should be more conscious of this. Fifty-four Black patients with acute myocardial infarction are presented and their complications and management while in an intensive care unit reviewed. Epidemiological aspects of ischaemic heart disease in South Africa are discussed.
Causes of fetal and neonatal mortality in a South African black community.	Little has been published about the underlying disorders responsible for the high perinatal mortality rates found in African cities. We searched for answers by identifying the causes of fetal and neonatal death in Blacks living in and around Durban. A 91% autopsy rate was achieved when 506 postmortem examinations were performed in 557 consecutive cases of fetal and early neonatal death. The perinatal mortality rates were 55/1000 for single births and 170/1000 for twins; 29% of the deaths were due to amniotic fluid infections, 9% to abruptio placentae, 5% to birth trauma, 4% to congenital syphilis, 4% to obstructed labour, 4% to major congenital malformations, 2% to umbilical cord compression and the rest to more than 20 other specific disorders.
Aspects of hypertension among blacks.	The universal prevalence of arterial hypertension among Blacks is no longer disputed, although there still remain unanswered questions. Hypertension among Blacks is nearly always primary (85% of cases), while the secondary form is synonymous with some type of renal disorder. A few 'associations' of hypertension exist. Diet may be significant, especially potassium deficiency as a result of high starch intake, low intake of potassium and other practices. Enigmatic clinical aspects include: (i) the absence of symptoms generally, especially in the presence of established severe clinical disease with and without target organ damage; (ii) the clinically apparent selective target organ damage; (iii) labile blood pressure readings at any stage; (iv) cerebral thrombosis and frequent blood pressure normalization; (v) cardiomyopathy in relation to hypertension; (vi) the discordance of morbid events; (vii) dramatic isolated morbid events, which suggest special vulnerability.
A comparison of cancer mortality rates in South Africa with those in other countries.	Standardized mortality rates for eight major types of cancer (as well as for all types of cancer considered together) in four South African population groups are compared with each other and with rates in selected countries. Wide differences among the races in South Africa are displayed, and several rates are shown to parallel those in other population groups abroad. This lends support to the belief that socio-economic factors (rather than solely genetic factors) play the major role in cancer causation.
Permanent cardiac pacing in South African Blacks.	Fifty-seven Black patients received permanent cardiac pacemakers at Baragwanath Hospital, Johannesburg, over a 7 1/2-year period. Most patients had established complete heart block (77%), while very few had intermittent conduction disorders or sinus node dysfunction. In most patients the cause of the conduction disease was unknown but was probably primary degeneration of the conducting pathways (Lenègre's disease); 2 patients underwent insertion of a pacemaker after myocardial infarction, 4 had congestive cardiomyopathy and 4 had valve disease and/or had previously undergone valve replacement. Seventeen patients (30%) were hypertensive. The results of cardiac pacing have been very good and the complication rate is low. Cardiac conduction disorders requiring insertion of a permanent cardiac pacemaker are not infrequent in South African Blacks, despite the absence or rarity of coronary artery disease in this population.
The South African window.	Southern Africa presents some fine opportunities to examine the relation of lifestyle to chronic disease. A cross-cultural comparison of disease is the only feasible way to study many of the chronic diseases. Biomedical scientists have an obligation to undertake this. If they do not, there is the dreadful expectation that the rising cultures will soon suffer the same diseases which the members of the highest socio-economic classes must now endure.
Hypertension and ischaemic heart disease in Indian people living in South Africa and in India.	In a random house-to-house study of 1 000 Indians in Durban the prevalence of primary hypertension according to World Health Organization criteria was found to be 19% (females 22%, males 15%). This prevalence was higher than that in published data from India. Hypertension among Indians in South Africa was found to be closely associated with diabetes mellitus and obesity and to be more common in widows or separated people, in those from the lower socio-economic groups and in those with poor education. Hindu males were more commonly affected than Muslim males. Ischaemic heart disease was also found to be more common in Indians in South Africa than in those in India. Cardiovascular diseases are just as much an 'epidemic' among the Indians of South Africa as among the the Whites, and the 'epidemic' of ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease and hypertensive disease is of more serious proportions in Indians than in Whites. It appears that emigrant Indian populations have a higher incidence of vascular disease than Indians in India. This is because of the combination of hypertension and diabetes mellitus.
Disease patterns in Indian South Africans.	Personal experience at the R. K. Khan Hospital in Durban, catering for the Indian population group, is reported. Observations are based on 31 101 case records of patients admitted over a 10-year period. Diagnoses on admission and their frequency, together with features of diseases of special interest, are presented. Compared with experience with Black patients, degenerative diseases are much more common than infections.
A comparison of neurological function in growth-retarded and appropriate-sized full-term newborn infants in two ethnic groups.	A comparative neurological study was undertaken of growth-retarded or small-for-dates (SFD) and appropriately grown (AFD) full-term infants in a Cape Coloured and a White (London, UK) population. There were no associated complications of pregnancy or labour. Consistent differences were found between SFD and AFD infants in both ethnic groups. In the SFD infants there was an increase in visual and auditory orientation, alertness, startle reflexes, tremors and tone, and some reduction in habituation. The difference between our results and those of earlier authors can probably be accounted for by factor such as use of drugs in labour, perinatal events and different causes of growth retardation, all of which may influence neurological behaviour.
Biosocial factors and hypertension in urban and rural Zulus.	A study of 1,000 urban and 1,000 rural Zulus was carried out to determine the biosocial factors associated with hypertension. The prevalence of hypertension was 25% in the urban Zulu (males 23%, females 27%) and 10.5% in the rural Zulu (males 10%, females 10.75%). The mean arterial pressure was higher in the urban Zulu than in the rural Zulu at all ages and for both sexes (greater in females than in males). In both the urban and the rural Zulu the following factors were found to be significantly associated with hypertension: age, sex, obesity, marital status, urbanization and number of dependents. In the urban Zulu other parameters absent in the rural Zulu were associated with hypertension: insomnia due to anxiety, cigarette smoking, alcohol intake, conditions of work, educational status, income, number of children not working, lack of recreation or sport activity, and overcrowding. Likewise, in the rural Zulu other parameters absent in the urban Zulu were associated with hypertension: having a family member with hypertension and the educational status of the children. There was a relationship between hypertension and social variables which were observed to be stressful. Unlike the rural Zulu, the urban Zulu is exposed to a different lifestyle, acculturation, detribalization and various political ideologies. This could explain the difference in the prevalence of hypertension in urban and rural Zulus.
Vascular complications in non-insulin-dependent diabetes in the young.	Of 85 Indian patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes in the young, 16 (19%) were found to have vascular disease. Of these 16 patients 14 had diabetic retinopathy and 6 nephropathy. Five of the patients with nephropathy also had retinopathy, and the 6th had bilateral cataracts. Three patients had ischaemic heart disease associated with nephropathy and/or retinopathy. No patient had peripheral or cerebrovascular disease, and 15 (18%) were found to have hypertension; 5 (31%) of the patients with vascular disease had hypertension.
The incidence of Perthes' disease in three population groups in the Eastern Cape region of South Africa.	Perthes' disease is thought to be rare in black children but no figures of incidence have previously been available. A search was therefore made for cases of the disease occurring in the Eastern Cape during the five-year period 1975 to 1979. Of 55 cases found, 38 were in white children, 11 in children of mixed ancestry ("coloured" children) and six in black children. The annual incidence in white children aged 14 years and under was 10.8 per 100 000, in coloured children 1.7 per 100 000, and in black children 0.45 per 100 000. In all races the incidence in the metropolitan area of Port Elizabeth was roughly twice that in the rural part of the region. The reason for the low incidence in coloured and black children is not known but various factors are suggested.
Geographic and ethnic distribution of human hemoglobin variants.	The distribution of hemoglobin variants in human populations is of interest to students of hemoglobin as well as geneticists and anthropologists. It has however received relatively little attention and, to the author's knowledge, this is the first attempt to comprehensively tabulate this type of information since Lehmann and Huntsman and Livingstone did so over 15 years ago (429, 430). In the interest of improving both the accuracy and scope of this compilation as well as keeping it current, the author invites investigators to submit to him corrections, references or additional information for inclusion in a future monograph or review article.
Chronic hydroquinone poisoning of the skin from skin-lightening cosmetics. A South African epidemic of ochronosis of the face in dark-skinned individuals.	Attention is drawn to the widespread use of bleaching preparations by Black women. These products often contain hydroquinone. They act efficiently as bleaching agents, but chronic oversaturation of the skin with hydroquinone eventually produces ochronosis. This complication has reached epidemic proportions in the Transvaal. Although the assay of hydroquinone in cosmetic products has not yet been standardized, we present some provisional results. The clinical, social and industrial aspects are also significant.
A current study of parasuicide in Durban.	Between 1 January and 31 December 1978, there were 723 episodes of overdosage, poisoning, self-inflicted injury and other possible manifestations of parasuicide reported by the casualty and trauma units of Addington Hospital, Durban. The Department of Psychiatry at this hospital attended to 310 of the patients involved. The study represents an analysis of their characteristics, which might indicate those at greatest risk of parasuicide. Some of the more relevant findings include the following: women predominated, those most at risk were in the age group 20--29 years, and single people were more at risk. The most common method of parasuicide was the ingestion of benzodiazepines and analgesics. A seasonal fluctuation was noted with a referral peak during the summer months, viz. December--February. Transient situational disturbances, reactive depression and conduct disorders in adolescents were the most prevalent psychiatric diagnoses.
Blunt abdominal trauma with jejunal injury: a review.	Jejunal perforation is relatively common following focal blunt abdominal trauma. The mortality rate remains in the region of 30%. Significant factors affecting mortality are therapeutic delay of 24 hours or more, and multiple injuries. The commonest clinical features are abdominal pain, tenderness, and guarding, diminished or absent bowel sounds and signs of hypovolemia. Diagnostic difficulty is presented by the patient with an impaired level of consciousness and/or associated remote injuries which may distract the clinician from the abdomen. Delayed rupture may also occur, and observation should continue for at least 48 to 72 hours with a warning to return immediately if pain recurs. Straight abdominal and chest radiography are of limited diagnostic value, but nevertheless may prove helpful in 50% of cases. All patients with multiple injuries, particularly in the presence of a head injury with an impaired level of consciousness should be submitted to diagnostic abdominal paracentesis. A negative result should prompt diagnostic peritoneal lavage. Early diagnosis and aggressive therapy are essential if the mortality is to be reduced. To this end careful, frequent abdominal assessment should be practiced, with immediate laparotomy if clinical parameters deteriorate, or do not improve over a 12 to 18-hour period.
A clinical assessment of stillborn infants.	One hundred and fifty stillborn infants delivered at Groote Schuur Hospital were clinically examined at birth to try to establish the probable cause of death. In 84,7% a likely explanation for the stillbirth was identified, with abruptio placentae, gross amniotic fluid infection and severe congenital abnormality the commonest diagnoses. Sex, birth weight, gestational age and degrees of maceration were also documented. These data provide a better understanding of the causes of stillbirth in Cape Town and will help in the rational planning of antenatal care aimed at reducing the perinatal mortality rate. It is recommended that clinical examination of all stillborn infants and their placentas be carried out at birth, especially if an autopsy is not performed.
Family practice as a part of undergraduate medical training in South Africa.	Undergraduate tiution in family practice was fully instituted for the first time in South Africa at the University of Pretoria in 1977. Students in the 2nd-5th years of study are taught the various aspects of family medicine and practice management by means of formal lectures and practical clinical work. The treachers are all general practitioners, most of whom hold a higher degree in family practice. In addition, each student spends at least 1 week with a practitioner in general practice. In Pretoria the outpatient and casualty departments of the two teaching hospitals are run by the Department of Family Practice. Large numbers of patients who would not be seen in the wards are thus made available for teaching purposes, and the standard of service to patients is improved. Until recently, medical teaching was confined to the various specialities and only patients admitted to teaching hospitals were available for teaching purposes. As less than 1% of persons reporting sick are admitted to hospital inpatients are not representative of the disease profile seen in general practice. Undergraduate medical training in family practice could be further improved by more participation in the teaching programme by experienced general practitioners in active practice.
Diabetes mellitus in black and coloured tuberculosis patients.	Four hundred and thirty-six Black and Coloured patients with tuberculosis were examined for diabetes mellitus, which was found in 2,1%. In this series 29% of diabetics with tuberculosis had lower lung field involvement only, while the prevalence of isolated lower lung field tuberculosis among the non-diabetics was only 4,5%. It was therefore concluded that diabetes mellitus should be looked for in patients with isolated lower lung field tuberculosis.
Health care of the elderly at Tygerberg Geriatric Clinic and Goodwood Aftercare Hospital.	Comprehensive geriatric care should receive nation-wide attention in order to realize its objectives. An analysis of patient problems at the Geriatirc Clinic, Tygerberg Hospital and Goodwood Aftercare Hospital is presented. The training of personnel, with full motivation of the community, to render health services to the aged is discussed.
Comparative study of plasma lipids, carbohydrate tolerance and coronary angiography in three racial groups.	Coronary artery disease (CAD) was investigated by selective coronary cine angiography in 94 White, 59 Indian and 17 Black patients, and correlated with plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels and glucose tolerance. CAD was found in 94%, 97% and 82%, and hypercholesterolaemia in 68%, 61% and 50% of the Whites, Indians and Blacks respectively. In the White group, cholesterol levels correlated with both frequency and severity of CAD. Hypertriglyceridaemia occurred in 44% of the White, 47% of the Indian, and 23% of the Black group, but did not correlate with the extent of CAD in any. Diabetes was detected in 56% of the Whites and 47% of the Indians, but was absent in all the Blacks tested. Hypercholesterolaemia appeared to be the only risk factor common to all racial groups.
Myxomatous degeneration of the heart valves in blacks.	Ten cases of myxomatous degeneration of the heart valves in Black subjects are described. The striking features, compared with other series, were the comparative youth of the patients and the predominance of aortic valve involvement. There was also a significant percentage of control subjects with excess mucopolysaccharides in the heart valves or aorta. These pathological findings confirm clinical observations previously made by other workers.
A demographic and socio-economic profile of a rural black South African community.	Demographic data regarding households in a Black rural community in the Eastern Transvaal were collected. Detailed socio-economic and health data were collected from a 10% random sample of households (response rate 92,5%). These data will be used for planning and evaluating a community health project. An extremely high infant mortality rate (198,1/1 000 live births), very low household incomes (median monetary household income R20 - R50 per month), low rates of immunization (39,4% of children under 12 years old had not been immunized), and gaps between the knowledge and practice of and the expressed desire for family planning were striking features.
Some reactions to illness of urban black and indian families in Durban. A summary of an exploratory study.	During an exploratory study into the health practices and beliefs of samples of Black and Indian households in Durban, housewives reported that in their households extensive use was made of Western medical facilities and practitioners. Religious and traditional belief systems and practices relating to illness were probably under-reported, but clearly form important elements in the behaviour of both groups.
Correlation of the results of X-ray and sputum culture in tuberculosis prevalence surveys.	In the course of 6 tuberculosis prevalence surveys carried out in South Africa, 5477 persons were investigated by sputum culture and chest X-ray. The X-ray was reported to show evidence of tuberculosis in 723 cases, and of these the sputum culture was positive in only 100 (13.8%). The sputum culture was also positive in another 76 (1.5%) cases in which the chest X-ray was negative. The reasons for these discrepancies are discussed.
Some thoughts on medical education.	Controversial aspects of medical education are discussed, with particular reference to the medical faculty at the University of Cape Town. The drawbacks of the traditional method of selection of medical students in South Africa are outlined and present attempts to modify these in the University of Cape Town are mentioned. Curricular changes, including the liberalization of the cirriculum, are described, and finally problems in postgraduate training are enumerated.
Surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm over 23 years.	The mortality for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in a surgical unit is reviewed over the 23-year period 1956-1978. Five hundred and eight patients were considered for operation. In the elective AAA surgery group there has been a progressive decline in mortality to a current level of 3%, and reasons for this are reviewed. Where patients present with ruptured AAA, however, the mortality has remained in excess of 50%.
Congenital jejuno-ileal atresia and stenosis.	Eighty-four patients with congenital jejuno-ileal atresias and stenoses admitted over a 20-year period (1959-1978) are reviewed. The overall survival rate of 88% is a reflection of the improvement in diagnosis and supportive care and refinements in technique. Our current ideas on this subject are expressed and a detailed account of the presentation, diagnosis and management is given.
The prognosis of alcohol-induced calcific pancreatitis.	A consecutive personal series of 314 patients with alcohol-induced calcific pancreatitis were admitted to a long-term follow-up study between 1959 and 1979. The patients were subdivided into four arbitrary groups according to the date of entry into study, and the mortality rate and survivor status were determined for each of these groups. Adjusted mortality rates increased progressively with the duration of follow-up, from 11% in the 1976-1979 to 73% in the 1959-1969 group. Pancreatic insufficiency dominated in patients followed up for 10 - 20 years, and pain was more prominent in the more recent follow-up groups. The survivor status in Whites was better than in Blacks, but the mortality rates were comparable. The occurrence of pain in patients who continued to drink was significantly less in the 10 - 20 year follow-up group than in those followed up for a shorter period of time.
Tuberculosis management in a rural community -- factors in failure.	An investigation was carried out during 1978 to establish the proportion of tuberculosis patients who had a relapse or whose treatment had failed and who presented together with new patients with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis at a regional hospital. Reasons for the high number of previously treated patients found in this study (35.8%) are discussed, and include the inadequate experience of the health team in tuberculosis, non-compliance of patients and geographical factors. The hospital-centered comprehensive health scheme seems to offer advantages over the district surgeon scheme in the organization of an adequate tuberculosis programme in a country area.
Psychosituational factors and duodenal ulceration in South African blacks and Indians.	Forty-one patients with endoscopically confirmed recent duodenal ulceration and 38 controls were studied by a multidisciplinary team. Results indicated that the development of duodenal ulceration may be promoted by stressful situations (71%), especially those which are work-related, avoidance-avoidance conflict (56%), and a compliant personality (51%). Denial was employed by 32%. On the basis of these psychosituational findings a hypothesis for the pathogenesis of duodenal ulceration has been postulated.
Community response to mental illness in Transkei.	In Transkei, responsible action in the event of mental illness in a family is first taken by the relatives of the patient. Their action will depend upon their culture, wealth and status in the community as well as on their understanding and knowledge of mental illness, on their confidence and on available transport. The help given by neighbours is described, the quality of their assistance depending also upon their knowledge and attitudes. An outline of the management of mental disease in clinics, hospitals and special centres is given. Four groups especially likely to develop mental illness are identified and community preventive measures are suggested.
Hodgkin's disease in South African children.	Thirty South African children with Hodgkin's disease were studied over a 7-year period (1970 - 1977). Males outnumbered females by 5:1. The most frequent histological pattern encountered was mixed cellularity (72%). Fourteen patients with stage I, II or IIIA disease were treated with radiation therapy alone, and all achieved a complete remission with a median duration of remission in excess of 48 months. Sixteen patients with stage III or IV disease received combination chemotherapy (MOPP regimen), and 13 achieved a complete remission with a median duration of remission in excess of 48 months. The overall median survival was in excess of 60 months. Seven patients died during the study period, 4 of Hodgkin's disease and 3 of other causes. There was no significant difference in treatment response or survival between Black and White children.
Physical and mental incapacity in elderly white persons in Cape Town. A community survey.	A community survey of 150 Whites persons over the age of 60 years living in the community in Cape Town showed that incapacity due to physical illness or impairment of function is present to some degree in 33%. Cognitive defects were present in 12%, poor social contacts in 19%, and lack of social and emotional support in 10%. Financial problems (12%) and unsatisfactory housing (3%) were the main material problems. Notwithstanding the above, it appeared that most elderly persons were managing adequately and that 58% were satisfied with their life circumstances.
Campylobacter enteritis in Johannesburg.	In order to establish a reasonable protocol for a diagnostic laboratory we conducted a survey during which we confined the routine culture of stool samples for Campylobacter fetus to two groups--all infants under 2 years of age, and older children and adults with obviously diarrhoeic stools. Camp. fetus was isolated from 100 of 2323 stool specimens (4,3%). This is within the 3 - 8% isolation rates previously reported from surveys in which all specimens were cultured. Camp. fetus isolates represented 16,9% of all bacterial pathogens isolated, and Black infants showed a significantly greater isolation rate than White infants. We feel that culture for Camp. fetus is an essential part of any routine bacteriological investigation of diarrhoea. A partially selective culture policy for Camp. fetus will result in a recovery rate at least equal to that of Salmonella and enteropathogenic Escherichia coli.
Pernicious anemia in blacks. A study of 64 patients from Washington, D. C., and Johannesburg, South Africa.	In a collaborative study from Washington, D. C., and Johannesburg, South Africa, the clinical, laboratory, and immunologic features of 64 black patients (25 male, 39 female) who had pernicious anemia were studied. Mean age at diagnosis was 53 +/- 20 years (mean +/- SD); 29.6% of the patients were under 40 years of age, and 14% were 30 years of age or younger. This suggests that there may be an earlier age of onset of pernicious anemia amongst blacks than the reported age incidence in whites. Serum anti-intrinsic factor blocking antibodies were found in 25 of 37 patients tested (67.5%). There was a significantly higher incidence of the antibody in women (85%) than in men (50%) (P < 0.01).
Spondylocostal dysostosis in South African sisters.	The clinical and radiographic features of two sisters with a severe form of spondylocostal dysostosis (SCD) are described and depicted Autosomal recessive inheritance is likely.
Problems in eradicating poliomyelitis from South Africa.	The number of poliomyelitis notifications in South Africa has declined in recent years although small outbreaks continue to occur. The feasibility of total eradication of the wild virus from the RSA is examined.
Errors in the diagnosis of schizophrenia in black and Indian patients.	The referral and/or final diagnoses of schizophrenia in 100 patients were examined. Discrepancies between these diagnoses were frequent and little evidence of a standardized approach to this diagnosis was revealed. Misinterpretation of cultural phenomena emerged as a further source of error. The critical nature of the interview and assessment situation, together with the need for standardized criteria and comprehensive understanding of cultural factors, is emphasized.
Type III hyperlipoproteinaemia in a black patient. A case report.	A Black male aged 55 years presented with xanthomatosis on the elbows, buttocks and knees. The fasting serum cholesterol (10,62 mmol/l) and triglyceride levels (8,85 mmol/l) were elevated. The refrigerator test revealed a diffuse lactescence with a faint chylomicron layer. The very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol and triglyceride levels were also elevated, with a VLDL cholesterol-to-VLDL triglyceride ratio of 0,37 and a VLDL cholesterol-to-serum triglyceride ratio of 0,45. Electrophoresis of the serum revealed a broad beta-band and the VLDL isolated exhibited beta mobility. After exclusion of secondary causes a diagnosis of primary type III hyperlipoproteinaemia was made.
Research in general practice.	The reasons for the limited amount of research that has emanated from general practice thus far is alluded to. The various areas of research in ambulatory care are briefly discussed, illustrated by examples for greater participation by general practitioners in research.
Comprehensive primary health care in rural areas]	Excellent primary care my be possible in rural areas because of factors inherent in the rural lifestyle which create an ideal patient-doctor relationship. However, the primary laboratory, radiological, physiotherapeutic, therapeutic and social service facilities and personnel must be improved by the Department of Health to create professional satisfaction and effectiveness for the primary care physician and primary contact satisfaction for the patient.
The South African general practitioner-an overview.	The reasons for geographical maldistribution of South African doctors are discussed. Solutions are offered which involve vocational training for general practitioners in rural areas. It is believed that sophisticated primary health care is the best for all the peoples of South Africa.
Imaging infection and inflammation in an African environment: comparison of 99Tcm-HMPAO-labelled leukocytes and 67Ga-citrate.	A considerable segment of the population of South Africa has a disease spectrum similar to those of the industrialized countries. However, a much larger proportion of its inhabitants comes from historically disadvantaged communities and is plagued by diseases typical of the developing world. Infectious diseases head the list as a cause of mortality in certain age groups. We have studied 108 patients presenting with a wide array of infections. Fifty-eight patients were examined with 67Ga-citrate and with 99Tcm-HMPAO-labelled leukocytes, 40 with leukocytes alone and 10 who had a high pre-test probability of tuberculosis with 67Ga only. The sensitivity and specificity of 99Tcm-labelled leukocyte scintigraphy in the 58 patients who had both studies were 89 and 84%, respectively, while the corresponding values for 67Ga scintigraphy were 81 and 74%, respectively. The overall sensitivity and specificity for 99Tcm-labelled leukocytes for detecting inflammatory sites in all 98 cases were 92 and 89%, respectively. Although labelled leukocytes were the better of the two agents for the early diagnosis of infections with a high probability of neutrophil infiltration, 67Ga remains an excellent alternative. It is the first choice in patients in whom tuberculosis or a neoplastic process is suspected as a cause of fever. It is also safer to use in areas where labelling of leukocytes is inadvisable because of inadequate sterility or where the risk is high of infecting other patients or staff with HIV.
Rickets in black children beyond infancy in Natal.	To determine the clinical spectrum of rickets among black children admitted to King Edward VIII Hospital, Durban.
Hepatitis B viral markers in Bushmen at Schmidtsdrift, South Africa: baseline studies for immunisation.	In an effort to control hepatitis B virus (HBV), the prevalence rates of the virus need to be ascertained in different regions or populations. As a baseline for a hepatitis B immunisation programme, the seroprevalence of HBV markers was determined in 400 San Bushmen from a community who were translocated from Northern Namibia to South Africa. HBsAg was detected in 6.8% while 57.0% showed one or more markers of HBV infection. The balance of the population (43.0%) showed no evidence of previous exposure to HBV. The HBV exposure rate of 57.0% is intermediate to high with reference to internationally reported figures and protection of seronegative individuals through immunisation is recommended. Individuals without possible natural immunity against HBV such as those with anti-HBc or anti-HBs as a sole marker may provide insight into the circulation of HBV mutants in this community, since these sole markers could be seroconversion in response to a mutant HBV strain.
Associations of neuroticism and introversion with academic achievement.	The relationship of academic achievement or grades with Eysenck Personality Inventory scores on Neuroticism and Introversion was examined. Contrary to theoretical expectations and previous studies, no significant differences among means were observed for 118 first-year South African university students (78 women and 40 men) whose mean ages were 29 yr. (women) and 28.8 yr. (men).
Diagnosis of Trichomonas vaginalis in male urethritis.	Trichomonas vaginalis was diagnosed in 42 (19%) of 227 adult males with urethral discharge. In 27 men (15%) T. vaginalis was isolated together with Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Non-gonococcal urethritis was diagnosed in 15 patients and T. vaginalis was isolated from 47% of such patients. Stained smear preparations, i.e. RapiDiff and acridine orange of modified Diamond's media, were superior to wet smear microscopy for the identification of T. vaginalis. RapiDiff stain was the most sensitive and identified 41 of 42 (98%) positive cultures. It is recommended that all turbid culture media should be stained for the optimal diagnosis of trichomoniasis.
The future of veterinary services in the Republic of South Africa.	Future developments will depend mainly on new information generated by research and on effective application of preventive medicine. In the latter case, the various diagnostic centres in South Africa will have to be developed to their full extent, leading to the drawing up of computerised disease profiles and monitoring of the incidence of scheduled diseases. Dealing with these problems will require further knowledge to be generated by research. Problems of increasing drug, insecticide and acaricide resistance and problems of virus bionomics will call for attack at the molecular, biochemical, biophysical and immunological levels. This will demand adjustment of post-graduate veterinary education and of ever closer collaboration with scientists well-versed in the basic disciplines. Despite the argument that animal production will be ousted by crop production, the former, particularly in South Africa, is bound to develop and will call for more attention to the physiology of digestion and metabolism and to diseases of metabolism of ruminants. Concern is expressed that so few young veterinarians take up research as a career, as South Africa has many veterinary problems peculiar to itself.
The current status of resistance to organophosphorus ixodicides by the blue tick, Boophilus Decoloratus (Koch) in the Republic of South Africa and Transkei.	In a four year survey 253 isolates of Boophilus decoloratus from the Republic of South Africa and Transkei were tested in the laboratory for their susceptibility to certain organophosphorus ixodicides. Fifty-seven of these isolates were susceptible to organophosphorus compounds, 88 isolates showed a range of susceptibility between that of the susceptible laboratory strain and a strain having a resistance greater than that for the Berlin type strain. A field trial confirmed degrees of resistance shown in the laboratory to the organophosphorus ixodicides benoxophos, chlorfenvinphos, dioxathion, dicrotophos, quintiofos and chlorfenvinphos/dioxathion.
Resistance to certain organophosphorus ixodicides in the bont tick, Amblyomma hebraeum Koch, in the Republic of South Africa and Swaziland.	A series of in vitro trails confirmed resistance in the three-host tick, Amblyomma hebraeum Koch, to the organophosphorus ixodicides, dioxathion, chlorfenvinphos, quintiofos, bromophos-ethyl and a dioxathion/chlorfenvinphos combination. The results of a routine survey showed that a resistance factor of greater than 100x was present in the offspring of ticks in six of 115 field isolates tested. These six isolates were confined to the lowveld areas of the province of Natal, Republic of South Africa, and Swaziland. Ticks in a further 59 isolates were less susceptible than the reference strain. Resistance was present in all three tick instars. This is the first recorded resistance to the organophosphorus group of ixodicides by multi-host ticks in Africa.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. XI. Helminths in cattle on natural pastures in the Northern Transvaal.	After being exposed to infestation for 4 to 6 weeks, pairs of tracer calves were slaughtered to determine the seasonal incidence of helminth infestation in cattle on natural pasture. Haemonchus placei was recovered from March-July and from November-February, and peak burdens were recorded during December and January. There was marked inhibition in larval development from April-July. Trichostrongylus spp. were recovered from March-June and from November-February, the greatest number of worms being recorded during December. Cooperia spp. infestation occurred from March-August and November-February with peak burdens during April-June and December. From February-August more than 50% of the worms recovered were in the 4th larval stage of development. The greatest number of Oesophagostomum radiatum were recovered from June-January. Longistrongylus sabie and Impalaia tuberculata, parasites normally found in impala, were recovered from many of the survey animals, this being the first record of their occurrence in cattle.
Transcultural aspects of schizophrenia: a comparative study in South Africa and in Namibia. A preliminary report.	Thirty six Coloured and Black patients with a clinical diagnosis of schizophrenia were evaluated by means of Present State Examination. The two groups were concordant by means of the 12 systems for the diagnosis of schizophrenia. This preliminary report has shown the difference in symptomatology of schizophrenia among the Coloureds of South Africa and the Blacks from Namibia. The differences are influenced by cultural and ethnical factors. The authors discuss the validity of methods employed in the study, especially language and intellectual capability as bias factors that may have influenced the final results.
Crucible of fire: the Boer War and the birth of the Canadian Army Medical Corps.	Although Canada's military physicians didn't come to prominence until WW I and WW II, the Canadian Army Medical Corps (CAMC), the forerunner of the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps and the current Canadian Forces Medical Service, actually had its origins in the Boer War. During that turn-of-the-century conflict, field hospitals accompanied Canadian troops to South Africa. Ian McCulloch discusses that early type of medical service and the steps that led to the creation of the CAMC.
Small and medium sized mammals as predators of ticks (Ixodoidea) in South Africa.	A total of 1,640 stomach contents from 56 South African species of small and medium sized mammals were examined for ticks. Only six ticks were found in three specimens of the caracal Felis caracal. Although identification of the tick species was not possible owing to fragmentation and partial digestion, the genus Haemaphysalis was represented in four of these cases. We conclude that predation by small and medium sized mammals on ticks is uncommon in South Africa.
The appetence behaviour of two South African paralysis-inducing ixodid ticks.	The appetence responses of the ixodid ticks Ixodes rubicundus and Rhipicephalus punctatus to various stimuli were quantified under laboratory conditions. A greater percentage of I. rubicundus generally responded to the different stimuli at lower than at higher temperatures while the converse was usually true for R. punctatus. Radiation heat and shadowing evoked a response in the greatest percentage of I. rubicundus, whereas CO2 and host odour were responsible for a similar reaction in R. punctatus. A single perturbation of the substrate caused more than 50% of I. rubicundus to respond while constant perturbation resulted in a progressive decrease in the proportion of ticks reacting. Significantly more R. punctatus than I. rubicundus were attracted to a CO2 trap and the R. punctatus were also attracted to the trap over a greater distance. Significantly more older than younger ticks of both species responded to the various stimuli.
Hydrazine production in children receiving isoniazid for the treatment of tuberculous meningitis.	To study the generation of the hepatotoxin hydrazine in 32 malnourished children receiving isoniazid for the treatment of tuberculous meningitis.
Attitudes towards professional health care in greater Bloemfontein.	Social inequality is not an abstract phrase "out there" but a reality close to home. The impact of inequality in health care is demonstrated by this study of the greater Bloemfontein area. To reveal perceived inequalities in professional health care (PRHC), an empirical investigation was undertaken into the attitudes of white, coloured and black groups towards its availability, accessibility, acceptability and affordability. The results of this investigation confirm the existence of different attitudes to PRHC in the various communities; stress the significance of variables such as population group, age and employment status in the respondents' attitudes towards PRHC highlight the issues which are particularly relevant to respondents, and emphasise the importance of bringing these issues to the attention of health care policy makers.
A profile of non-practising registered nurses who attended a professional re-entry course in Pretoria & Johannesburg in 1992: their expectations and implications for employing bodies.	Twenty non-practising nurses who attended nurse re-entry courses in Pretoria and Johannesburg during 1992, agreed to complete questionnaires which were used to do this survey. Of the respondents 100% were female and 75% were married. The majority of these non-practising nurses had acquired at least six years professional experience before leaving the profession-mostly to be able to fulfil their family obligations. Surprisingly, 100% of the respondents considered re-entering the profession, even those who worked in fields outside nursing. As many as 90% of these non-practising nurses would re-enter the profession if they could find part-time positions enabling them to fulfil their family obligations as well. This implied that the majority would prefer from 08:00 till 13:00 on weekdays, but some would prefer to work night duty, during the afternoons or over weekends when their husbands could take care of their children. Eighteen factors were identified which could influence these non-practising nurses' decisions to re-enter the profession, but 85% indicated that the ability to work in the department of their choice would play a significant role in this regard. Of the respondents 80% regarded the re-entry course which they attended as being a successful update of nursing knowledge and skills. However, future re-entry courses could be more effective if the hospital's professional nurses were more knowledgeable about the educational needs of those candidates assigned to their units.
Evaluation of the quality of nursing care in a number of homes for the aged in the Orange Free State]	A study was undertaken to evaluate the quality of nursing care in a number of homes for the aged in the Orange Free State. Ten homes were visited and 45 frail aged patients observed. Data was collected by means of a standardised instrument. Essential physical needs such as hygiene and nutrition were found to receive the necessary attention. However, aspects such as stimulation, socialisation, reality orientation, habit training programmes and exercise did not receive enough attention. In the light of these findings it was concluded that a custodial care approach was followed in these homes.
An investigation of the opinions of black adolescents in the Esikhawini area of Kwa-Zulu in regard to the use and abuse of alcohol.	This paper discusses the investigation of opinions of black adolescents living in Esikhawini Township near Empangeni in regard to alcohol use and abuse among black youth. The reasons black adolescents give for drinking and their perceptions of social, psychological and environmental factors contributing to alcohol use among black adolescents, are also discussed. The methodology employed was a descriptive survey. Data gathering was from the adolescents or pupils aged 12 years to 19 years, who attended the two Senior Secondary School in the Esikhawini Township. The results indicate that both sexes of black adolescents have positive attitudes about drinking alcohol. They say nothing is wrong with it. The peer group is seen as the natural environment for drinking and they give numerous reasons for drinking alcohol. They have misconceptions that they will outgrow drinking of alcohol. They claim that they have easy access to alcoholic beverages in the black township of Esikhawini. The only negative aspect expressed by black adolescents was that it was awful to see a young person drunk, but they do not seem to relate the drunk behaviour with the drinking that leads to it. Finally the following implications are drawn: It is necessary to develop targeted community health education programmes aimed at peer group drinking. The education programmes should be planned and implemented to correct the reasons and excuses adolescents have about drinking. These education programmes need to be evaluated periodically to assess their effect.
Referrals for inadequate progress of labour from the midwife obstetric units to the referral hospitals in Cape Town.	Referrals for inadequate progress of labour from the Midwife Obstetric Units (MOUs) to the referral hospitals are responsible for a significant part (approximately 5%) of the workload of these institutions in the Peninsula Maternal and Neonatal Service Region in Cape Town. It is essential for the maintenance of community credibility in the MOUs that patients who develop complications are timely and speedily transferred to the appropriate referral hospital. A sample of 251 patients, who were transferred from the MOUs to the referral hospitals for inadequate progress of labour in the first half of 1992, was analysed. The study showed that midwives in the MOUs had largely adhered to the Departmental referral criteria for that potentially serious complication of labour and had kept excellent records. The referrals, in terms of eventual outcome for the patients and their infants, had been largely appropriate. Several areas of concern were identified. These included incomplete assessment of the stage of labour on admission and inadequate monitoring of the fetal heart in a number of patients. Provision of analgesia in labour was generally inadequate. Ambulance delay was disturbingly common. Recommendations for measures to redress these management deficiencies are presented.
Antimalarial measures--type, sources of advice and compliance among tourists to Natal/KwaZulu.	Typical advice on antimalarial measures provided by pharmacies as well as actual behaviour in this regard and sources of advice accessed by tourists to northern Natal/KwaZulu were canvassed by telephonic interviews with 70 pharmacies and 53 'care providers' (members of travel parties). Doctors (26%) and pharmacists (40%) were the most commonly approached sources of antimalarial advice. Professional recommendations frequently involved chloroquine-based drugs (80% of recommended drugs), despite the chloroquine-resistant status of the study area. Drug choice reflected the limited availability of new alternatives to chloroquine at the time the study was conducted, as well as ignorance of drug resistance in the area. Possible reasons for the inappropriate nature of many of the reported recommendations, as well as an approach to the dissemination of future prophylactic policy documents, are discussed.
Nutritional status of children in Alexandra township. Clinic-based data and a community survey.	A community-based survey of the nutritional status of children aged 12-23 months was conducted. A cluster sampling technique was used. The weight and height of 426 children were measured. Compared with clinic-based growth-monitoring data, which showed that 5.5% of the children were below the 3rd percentile of weight for age, this survey revealed that 17.7% of boys and 9.3% of girls were below the 3rd percentile of weight for age. This may indicate that the health centre is not reaching those in greatest need. In respect of height for age, 44.3% of boys and 44.1% of girls were below the 3rd percentile while less than 4% of boys and girls were below the 3rd percentile of weight for height; this indicated a high percentage of stunting but no acute malnutrition. Growth monitoring may be an important component of a child health programme. However, unless growth is measured accurately and appropriate action implemented, growth monitoring alone is of little value. Thus before continuing with the programme of growth monitoring, the Alexandra Health Centre should ensure that health workers are adequately trained and that appropriate interventions are implemented to reduce the risks associated with children who fail to gain weight at the expected rate. Once implemented, a regular evaluation of all aspects should be undertaken.
Haematological condition of the San (Bushmen) relocated from Namibia to South Africa.	A cross-sectional study was undertaken to assess the haematological condition of the San (Bushmen) relocated from Namibia to South Africa. We studied 238 subjects--145 men and 93 women; none of the women was pregnant. We performed full blood counts and estimations of serum vitamin B12, folate, ferritin and erythrocyte folate concentrations. The mean haemoglobin concentration among the men was 14.7 g/dl and 19 (13%) were anaemic; among the women it was 13.8 g/dl and 18 (19%) were anaemic. Thirteen (9%) of the men and 22 (24%) of the women had low concentrations of serum ferritin, and 38 (26%) of the men and 22 (24%) of the women had erythrocyte folate concentrations of less than 270 nmol/l. Three (2%) men and 4 (4%) women had serum vitamin B12 concentrations of less than 120 pmol/l. Eighty-one (56%) of the men and 76 (82%) of the women had eosinophilia, probably because of parasitic infections. It would appear from this and previous studies that prolonged exposure of these hunter-gatherers to a Western lifestyle has resulted in a high prevalence of anaemia, caused by low iron and folate intakes, complicated by alcohol consumption.
The introverted medical school--time to rethink medical education.	Curricular reform in the education of medical students is highlighted within the context of changing patterns of provision of health care. A number of industrialised countries' medical schools have accepted that they have a 'social contract' to respond to the health needs of the populations they serve. Such a contract, and the commitment to populations which it would necessitate, is also relevant in the South African context.
The radioanalytical laboratory at Pelindaba. Some applications for environmental and health monitoring.	This article deals with the radioanalytical work performed at Pelindaba, Atomic Energy Corporation of South Africa. It reports on the activities of a commercial laboratory, employing analytical techniques, such as total alpha/beta counting, alpha spectrometry, liquid scintillation counting, gamma spectrometry, and neutron activation analysis. Techniques discussed in more detail include semicyclic activation analysis for the determination of fluorine in vitamin mixes, as well as the determination of uranium and radium in urine samples for personnel monitoring.
The midwife in South Africa. Part I--The practice of the midwife]	Part 1, of a two part series on the dilemma of the midwife in South Africa, deals with the practice of the midwife. It is difficult to estimate the number of practicing midwives, as they form part of the general nursing register. Also midwifery is part of the basic nurse training and is not taught as a separate entity. The midwife in South Africa practices in the areas of primary health care, hospitals, clinics, mobile clinics, homes and MOU's. The governments commitment to PHC will likely result in most midwives practicing in this area. Problems are high maternal deaths, shortages and maldistribution of midwives in an urban/rural context and the fragmentation and poor coordination of the health services. The safe motherhood initiative of the WHO has been adopted, there are recommendations that midwifery education be separated from general nurse education, and that clinical skills be strengthened. Midwifery services in South Africa do not fulfill the basic criteria for a PHC service.
Age of menopause onset in Canary Islands women]	To establish the age at menopause in the Canary woman. To study the possible influence of habitat, socioeconomical status and other possible factors on it.
Cognitive and affective reactions of black urban South Africans towards tuberculosis.	The core concepts of tuberculosis (TB) control programmes are case-finding (voluntary presentation) and case-holding (compliance for both patient and system). Voluntary presentation and compliance are complex behaviours that depend upon symptom recognition and evaluation, cultural and social influences and enabling factors such as time, money, skills and appropriate/accessible health services. It was hypothesised that cognitive and affective reactions towards TB were based on perceived prevalence, perceived seriousness and perceived social stigma.
Cost of drugs at an urban primary health care centre in Alexandra, South Africa.	This report provides an analysis of expenditure on pharmaceuticals at the Alexandra Health Centre and University Clinic (AHC), South Africa. Drug costs increased at a rate higher than for the general expenditure budget. The drug cost per script per department varied from R9.43 for patients attending the diabetic clinic to R0.60 for antenatal care patients. In general, female consultations at the adult outpatient department (AOPD) were more expensive than male's and adult's more than paediatric's. The largest share of drug costs went to adult female patients in AOPD and the smallest share went into preventive and promotive care services. Again the same observations apply for drug costs as percentage of the total costs per clinical department. This study shows that drug costs were a significant contributor to the level of primary health care (PHC) expenditure. We discuss the alternatives to cost-recovery in a concrete situation like the peri-urban community being served by the AHC. It is concluded that in communities similar to Alexandra it would be possible to provide PHC at about R30 per capita per annum with about 15% being spent on pharmaceuticals.
Residual risk of transmission of HIV through blood transfusion in South Africa.	Despite the ongoing review of donor recruitment criteria by local blood transfusion services and the development of highly sensitive and specific testing for the presence of antibodies to HIV in blood and blood products, there remains a residue of HIV in donated blood. This is because of donors who are in the 'window period' between acquisition of HIV and seroconversion, human errors and limits to the sensitivity and specificity of current tests. Data available from a national survey of HIV seroprevalence in South African blood donors allowed for the estimation of the number of units screened negative but likely to be infected with HIV. Assuming window periods of 4.8 and 14 weeks, a test sensitivity of 99.9%, a specificity of 98.5% and a human error rate of 0.1%, the likely rate of HIV-infected blood in the South African blood transfusion supply ranges from 1.1 to 3.9/100,000 units, with a likely estimate of 2.2/100,000 units. In the current South African blood transfusion setting, between 8.1 and 28.2 units of blood per annum will be HIV-positive with a likely estimate of 15.9 units. This corresponds to an odds ratio of between 1:90 909 and 1:25 641 units infected with HIV. These data are comparable with the risk in developed countries. The expected increase in the incidence and prevalence of HIV infection in all adult South African populations necessitates additional measures to ensure a blood supply which is as safe as possible. Some of these measures have already been taken by local blood transfusion services.
Missed opportunities for immunisation at hospitals in the western Cape--a reappraisal.	Immunisation practices were examined at 6 hospitals in the western Cape during the latter half of 1992 to determine whether these practices had improved subsequent to the February 1991 resolution of the Health Matters Committee (HMC) on immunisation in hospitals, and since a similar study was undertaken in 1990. Exit interviews were conducted with the escorts of all children aged 3-59 months who attended the study hospitals on the days designated for the study. In the second study, 88 of the 311 children studied (28.3%) were in need of immunisation on arrival, but only 12 of the 88 (13.6%) were immunised during the hospital visit. There was no evidence of an increase in requests to see children's Road-to-Health cards (37.1% compared with 35.2% previously). The incidence of missed opportunities for measles immunisation in children aged 6-59 months remained unacceptably high (51.4% compared with 63.7% previously, when a strict definition was used; and 15.7% compared with 18.1% previously, when a lenient definition was used). Health authorities at all levels need to take urgent action to address the problem of missed opportunities for immunisation at hospitals.
Would national health insurance improve equity and efficiency of health care in South Africa? Lessons from Asia and Latin America.	Arguments for and against national health insurance (NHI) for South Africa are illuminated by the experiences of other middle-income developing countries. In many Latin American and Asian countries the majority of their populations are covered by NHI, coverage having steadily increased over the last decade. Patterns of care under NHI tend to be inefficient--hospital-oriented, highly specialised and technical, with excessive investigation, surgery and medication, neglect of primary care and severe cost escalation. In some cases, however, urban primary care has been promoted through polyclinics and health maintenance organisations. Inequalities in funding, access and utilisation exist between the insured and uninsured, between strata of the insured, and between urban and rural areas. These inequalities have at times been ameliorated by expansion of coverage, subsidisation of poorer beneficiaries and initiation of programmes that extend care to rural areas. NHI can improve or impair efficiency and equity in health care, depending on structures and processes of revenue generation, payment and organisation of care. These depend in turn on how those likely to lose or gain from each option exercise their collective power.
Monogenic primary hypercholesterolaemia in South Africa.	Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) and familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 (FDB) are the two major causes of monogenic primary hypercholesterolaemia. In this review, FH and FDB are defined in relation to normal lipoprotein metabolism. In South Africa FH affects about 1% of Afrikaners, Jews and Indians, while FDB is probably a much rarer disorder. In Afrikaners, three 'founder' mutations are responsible for more than 80% of FH. The population genetics that created the exceptionally high frequency of FH and comparatively low frequency of FDB in various South African populations are described. The genetic organisation and itinerary of the normal low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor are reviewed, with particular emphasis on the structure-function relationships in the LDL receptor that have been clarified by the mutations found in South Africa. Finally, the clinical relevance of research into FH in South Africa is discussed.
Radiation therapy services in South Africa.	A survey of both private and public sector radiation therapy facilities in South Africa shows that they are available in only 7 major urban centres. About 20,000 cases are treated yearly by 58 therapists and 190 therapy radiographers, with 37 megavoltage and 24 X-ray machines. Brachytherapy, imaging and planning equipment is also inadequate. With limited epidemiological data it appears that less than 50% of all patients appropriately treated with radiation therapy present for such treatment. Increased referrals from sub-Saharan Africa place further strains on the system.
Attitudes of private general practitioners towards health care in South Africa.	The need for health care reform in South Africa is acknowledged by the government as well as by the non-governmental health sector. There is, however, no unanimity regarding the nature of the envisaged reform. A country-wide postal survey of 700 private sector general practitioners (GPs) from a commercial database of 5,000 was conducted to explore attitudes towards health care. A response rate of 67.4% was obtained. Respondents were mostly male (92%) and urban-based (64%). The median age was 42 years. Most respondents: (i) believed health care to be a right for all citizens; (ii) favoured private or a combination of private and public funding mechanisms with fee-for-service arrangements; (iii) opposed cost-containment measures imposed by funders, e.g. medical aids; and (iv) believed doctors should be responsible for primary care in under-served areas. After sex, age, location (urban versus rural) and GP postgraduate qualification had been controlled for by means of logistic regression techniques, the university at which a respondent's basic degree was obtained emerged as the only independent predictor of attitudes to the following: (i) comprehensive care as a right; (ii) integration of the public and private sectors; (iii) preferred funding source for a future health system; and (iv) preference for fee-for-service remuneration. Both university and gender independently predicted attitudes on GPs' income. Graduates of white, Afrikaans-medium universities were strongly in favour of a privately funded and fee-for-service orientated system. Those who qualified at black universities, on the other hand, favoured public funding with less emphasison fee-for-service.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
How healthy is South Africa's medical schemes industry?	An analysis of the membership demographics, the financial health and especially the sustainability of the South African medical schemes industry is presented. From the financial and in particular the actuarial analyses it is obvious that the current system is unsustainable, and if a private health care sector is to survive at all it will have to contain costs far more effectively than it has in the past. It is suggested that medical schemes (and other mechanisms of funding health care) review their funding policies and move towards advance funding of pensioner benefits, and also that the schemes be actuarially valued on a regular basis.
The availability of research journals in South African academic medical libraries.	Biomedical researchers depend on the journals of science as a primary source of information. The spiralling cost of journals threatens the ability of libraries to provide their users' information needs. In this study the availability of a representative sample of journals used by South African biomedical researchers was determined at each of the seven medical faculty libraries. The application of a standardised document delivery test is described and the results are interpreted in terms of: (i) the capability index, which includes material obtainable through inter-library loans; and (ii) an availability index, or measure of the probability that a user will find an item without delay in his/her own library. The current status of availability of biomedical journals was found to be high at all the libraries; indeed, the scores compare favourably with results obtained at academic libraries overseas. There is, however, real concern that the financial crisis in tertiary education will cause the situation to deteriorate. Repetition of this test is recommended to monitor the (probably declining) level of journal availability. The information would support efforts to rationalise and subsequently strengthen academic medical libraries' collective holdings as a strategic national resource.
Bacillary angiomatosis. The first case reported in South Africa.	A 28-year-old white man, positive for HIV, who was admitted to hospital for pneumonia, had for 2 months had several fluctuating cutaneous purple nodules on his legs and abdomen. Cultures of two lesions were negative, but light and electron microscopy showed organisms characteristic of bacillary angiomatosis. The patient responded well to therapy with erythromycin. This is the first reported case of bacillary angiomatosis in South Africa.
Homicide-associated burning in Cape Town, South Africa.	To describe the features of homicide-associated burnings (HAB) and examine factors that distinguish between intentional and accidental fatal burn injury, we undertook a review of all burn cases admitted to the Salt River State Mortuary, Cape Town, South Africa, between January 1, 1991, and December 31, 1992. Of 358 burn-related deaths, 35 (10%) were homicides; five (14%) of these were described as "necklacings." No significant difference existed in age, sex, residential status, or extent of burn injury between the HAB and adult residential fire victims (ARFV). Of the HAB, 44% had soot in the trachea and main bronchi, whereas soot was present in 83% of the ARFV (p = 0.001). The median blood carbon monoxide saturation was 12% in the HAB and 30% in the ARFV (p = 0.001). Of the HAB, 48% had a blood alcohol concentration > 0.1 g/100 ml, whereas this concentration was noted in 70% of ARFV (p = 0.02). Evidence of either gunshot, stabbing, or blunt force injury was seen in 82% of the HAB. Although some significant autopsy parameters characterize HAB, we conclude that the forensic pathologist should diligently seek evidence of homicidal injury in all fatal burn cases.
What women say about their birth experiences: a cross-cultural study.	The reactions of 221 women to their place of delivery (state or private hospital), type of delivery (vaginal or Caesarean) and associated obstetrical interventions were explored by means of a structured interview conducted at 3 months postpartum. Women were randomly selected from the birth records of three cultural groups residing in the municiple area of Johannesburg, South Africa: White (n = 72), Indian (n = 79) and Mixed cultural origin (n = 78). The type of birth experienced by women differed in the cultural groups examined. While most women experienced positive emotional reactions to birth many also expressed a variety of negative reactions. The differences in care experienced by women in the present study reflect the impact of the two systems of care, private and state, that are available to women in South Africa.
Test anxiety and academic achievement among South African university students.	Although studies in Western and a few developing countries have indicated students with low scores on test anxiety tend to perform better on academic tasks than those who score higher on test anxiety, at this South African university no statistically significant mean difference on a test in educational psychology was noted for 121 students who scored high on the Anxiety Achievement Test and those 117 who scored low.
Tuberculosis in imported hyrax (Procavia capensis) caused by an unusual variant belonging to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex.	Tuberculosis was diagnosed in an adult female hyrax (Procavia capensis) imported from South Africa and held in a captive colony at the Perth Zoo. An organism similar to Mycobacterium microti was isolated from the lung of this animal and the lung of an adult male hyrax in the colony. The organism was not pathogenic to rabbits or guinea pigs. Protein profiles and RFLP patterns using the probes IS6110 and pTBN12 showed both hyrax isolates were identical. These isolates were similar to a M. tuberculosis complex strain isolated from dassies (hyrax) in the late 1950s in South Africa and to M. microti, but appeared to be more closely related to the "dassie bacillus". It is likely that at least one of the hyrax was infected at the time of collection in South Africa. The finding of tuberculosis in these imported animals highlights concern over the lack of suitable tests for the detection of tuberculosis in unusual animal species such as these, and the problems that can arise as a result of the importation of infected animals.
Analysis of 40 known cystic fibrosis mutations in South African patients.	A total of 140 South African (SA) Caucasoid cystic fibrosis (CF) families were analysed for the common CF mutation, delta F508. The 52 non-delta F508 CF chromosomes in a subset of 127 of these families were also tested for 39 other known CF mutations. The most frequent mutation, apart from delta F508 (which occurs at a frequency of 79%), was G542X (1.3%). Four other mutations, R553X, S549N, 621 + 1G-->T and N1303K, were each found in single families. The other 35 mutations remained unidentified in this sample of CF families. Since 83% of SA Caucasoid CF mutations have been identified, diagnosis by mutation analysis will be possible in only 69% of CF cases. When a diagnosis has been confirmed by a positive sweat test, a combination of linked marker analysis and mutation detection will be necessary if prenatal diagnosis and carrier detection are to be offered in the remaining families.
An audit of the use of antibiotics in presumed viral meningitis in children.	The antibiotic management of 139 consecutive patients with presumed viral meningitis evaluated during a 6-month period was examined. The presumptive diagnosis of viral meningitis was made in retrospect by consensus among the authors, using clinical and routinely available laboratory information. Sixty-eight (51.9%) of 131 patients with complete records were treated with antibiotics after diagnosis, 25 for 2 days or less and 43 for longer than 2 days. Antibiotic treatment was retrospectively judged to be unjustified in 35 (81.4%) of the 43 patients treated for longer than 2 days. When compared with untreated patients antibiotic treatment was started in younger female children with lower cerebrospinal fluid glucose values and longer duration of symptoms. There was no difference between the two groups in other cerebrospinal fluid values, peripheral white blood cell count or history of preceding antibiotics. In contrast no associations were found with treatment beyond 2 days, compared with treatment for 2 days or less. Thus the decision to stop antibiotic treatment early did not appear to be made according to consistent clinical criteria. This apparent lack of consistent criteria suggests the need to develop clinical guidelines for such decisions, both to aid clinicians and to provide standards for medical audit.
Parasites of South African freshwater fish. VI. Nematode parasites of some fish species in the Kruger National Park.	The nematode parasites of 30 spot-tailed robbers, Brycinus imberi, five tiger-fish, Hydrocynus vittatus, 77 large-scaled yellowfish. Barbus marequensis, two mudsuckers, Labeo molybdinus, 114 catfish, Clarias gariepinus, 46 silver barbel, Schilbe intermedius, 66 squeakers, Synodontis zambezensis, three eels, Anguilla spp., 83 Mozambique bream, Oreochromis mossambicus, 81 red-breasted bream, Tilapia rendalli swierstrae and 32 large-mouthed bream, Serranochromis meridianus, caught in the Sabie, Crocodile and Olifants Rivers in the southern and central regions of the Kruger National Park, were collected, identified and counted. A single Camallanus sp. male was recovered from one of the mudsuckers; Capillaria spp. from three catfish and one squeaker; philometrid nematodes from two silver barbel, 15 squeakers and a large-mouthed bream; Paracamallanus cyathopharynx from one tiger-fish, 80 catfish, 28 silver barbel and one squeaker; Procamallanus laeviconchus from a single catfish; Rhabdochona esseniae from six large-scaled yellowfish; Rhabdochona versterae from 14 spot-tailed robbers; Rhabdochona spp. from 20 catfish, 17 silver barbel, eight squeakers, two eels, one large-mouthed bream and two red-breasted bream; Raillietnema synodontisi from 33 squeakers; Spinitectus petterae from 37 catfish; Spinitectus zambezensis from 55 squeakers; Spinitectus spp. from one tiger-fish and four silver barbel, and Spirocamallanus daleneae and Synodontisia thelastomoides from 33 and 35 squeakers, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nosocomial adenovirus infection in a paediatric respiratory unit.	We report a nosocomial outbreak due to adenovirus in a paediatric respiratory unit serving a poor socio-economic community. Of 207 children admitted during an eight-month period, 24% were neonates; the median age of the remainder was 10 months. Thirty-two cases were found to be infected with adenovirus and of these 67% died. Nine were already infected with adenovirus when admitted. Twenty-three acquired the infection after admission, giving an incidence of nosocomial acquisition of 12% with a 91% mortality rate. All but one of the adenovirus infected children were being ventilated and had an endotracheal tube in place. Nosocomial spread was likely to have been from the hands of attendants, especially those manipulating suction catheters and endotracheal tube or ventilator connections. Risk factors for acquiring nosocomial infection were young age: all but two were < 1 year of age, and a relatively prolonged ward stay necessitated by the nature of the primary condition (pneumonia, bronchiolitis, laryngotracheo bronchitis, tetanus). The measures that were taken to control spread of the virus are described. Despite these, primary cases of adenovirus infection re-introduced the virus regularly over the study period. The genome analysis showed adenovirus types to be 7c2 and 7c.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. XXXII. Ixodid ticks on scrub hares in the Transvaal.	A total of 264 scrub hares (Lepus saxatilis) were examined for ixodid ticks at various localities in the Kruger National Park, eastern Transvaal Lowveld. Thirteen tick species were recovered from these hares. The seasonal abundances of the immature stages of Amblyomma hebraeum, Amblyomma marmoreum, Hyalomma truncatum, Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi, Rhipicephalus simus and Rhipicephalus zambeziensis and all stages of a Rhipicephalus sp. (near R. pravus) were determined. Three scrub hares, examined in the north-western Transvaal Bushveld, were infested with five ixodid tick species. Ten hares examined in the eastern Transvaal Highveld harboured three species. A total of 15 ixodid tick species were recovered from the scrub hares examined in the three regions of the Transvaal. No haematozoa were found in blood smears made from the hares examined in the southern region of the Kruger National Park.
Identification of an American hiker.	The skeletonized remains of an American hitch-hiker were recovered from a forest near Knysna in the Cape. There were no recognizable features except the presence of dental restorations. The use of the "fax" to transmit dental records while being a speedy means of communication does have its limitations. Electrical faults on the telephone line can cause the document to become illegible and subsequent duplication of this document aggravates the problem. An appeal is made to standardize the notation of teeth by using the FDI code and to adopt a 2 digit code for restoration morphology.
Departmental evaluation: speech therapy and audiology, an academic department aimed at teaching a profession.	In a recently established policy guideline of the Department of National Education it was clearly indicated that programmes and departments at tertiary education institutions should institute evaluation procedures as a matter of urgency. This has become necessary to provide a basis for decision making and policy formation, to accredit programmes, to monitor expenditure of public funds and to improve educational material. It is the aim of this paper to develop an evaluation model, based on accepted education principles, for evaluating the actual performance of a Department of Speech Therapy and Audiology. A basic management model is used and specific functional indications are given of the steps that should be taken in evaluating a department. The model is a comprehensive one which can easily be adapted for use in other departments.
Indigenous healers and stuttering.	Traditional beliefs and attitudes of Black South Africans to stuttering were investigated. Four Indigenous Healers (IHs) from different ethnic groups were interviewed about their beliefs as to cause and management of stuttering, as well as the outcome of their treatment. The data reveals varying degrees of concern about stuttering. The traditional beliefs of cause and management of stuttering show some similarities to current beliefs held by speech pathologists. Implications in terms of direction in therapy, cooperation with IHs and future research in this field are discussed.
Molecular investigation of familial Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome: a model for paternal imprinting.	In familial Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS), the mode of inheritance is uncertain and possible patterns include autosomal dominant, multifactorial and autosomal dominant sex-dependent inheritance. Genomic imprinting has recently been invoked to explain the unusual inheritance patterns in several disorders. We have previously reviewed 28 published kindreds of BWS and shown that paternal imprinting is probably responsible for familial BWS. In the present paper, highly informative RFLP markers in the 11p15.5 region have been shown to segregate with the disease gene as an autosomal dominant, but phenotypic manifestations in an offspring are dependent on the sex of the parent contributing the defective gene. In contrast to previous reports in which imprinting of the growth stimulator gene, IGF2, has been invoked as the mechanism explaining sporadic cases of BWS (especially in situations where uniparental disomy and trisomy of the 11p15.5 region has occurred), it is suggested that paternal imprinting of a growth suppressor gene, e.g., H19, may be one of the causes of familial BWS.
Imaginary constructions and forensic reconstructions of fatal violence against women: implications for community violence prevention.	The almost exclusive media focus on political violence in South Africa has deflected attention from the high levels of interpersonal violence in areas of socioeconomic deprivation. In order to explore the tension between an at-risk community's perspective and the current reality of violence against women, imaginary constructions of their own violent death produced by 45 African female interview respondents were examined in conjunction with forensic data relating to 73 African female homicide victims in Cape Town, South Africa. The prototypical account of an imagined homicide involved a female commuter being approached by a group of men, taunted and assaulted, raped and then killed. The majority of actual homicides occurred at or in the vicinity of the residence of the victim, with the attacker being known to the deceased. Whilst only 1 of the imagined homicide narratives depicted the use of alcohol by the victim, over half the actual homicides had elevated postmortem blood alcohol levels. These and other disjunctions and convergencies between lay and forensic constructions of violent female death should be viewed in the wider context of enmeshment in social circumstance, and could provide some understanding of how at-risk communities perceive violence against women, thereby providing a foundation for appropriate prevention programmes.
Preliminary report on the paleodemography of the K2 and Mapungubwe populations (South Africa).	Paleodemographic studies have seldom been attempted in sub-Saharan Africa. The Mapungubwe complex of sites in northern Transvaal (A.D. 970-1200) has yielded enough skeletal material to warrant such an investigation. The skeletal collection consists of 109 individuals (97 from K2 and 12 from Mapungubwe itself). Because the sites are extensive and their complete excavation impractical, only reconstruction of the population dynamics, not the population size, was possible. There were 81 child and juvenile skeletons (below 15 years of age) and 7 male, 5 female, 4 possible male, and 4 possible female adult skeletons. Eight adult skeletons were too fragmentary to warrant even tentative sex diagnoses. Either age-specific burial practices resulting in the surplus of child skeletons, unusual child mortality, or a state of substantial natural increase must be the explanation for this age distribution. The hypothesis of the natural increase can be partly tested by using an appropriate correction to the life table. The life table corrected for r = 2.5% has a newborn life expectancy of 18.93 +/- 1.79 years and a survivorship to 15 years of 41.66% +/- 3.91. The population pyramid derived from this life table compares well with data on some third world populations observed earlier this century. The fertility rate required to maintain the natural increase under such mortality conditions is high but comparable to that of some historical populations. High positive natural increase would indicate an economically successful population.
Tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment of young South African children: experiences and perceptions of care-givers.	Tuberculosis (TB) in infants and young children is a major public health concern in South Africa. As care-givers of young children often supervise TB treatment, we explored their experiences and perceptions of TB.
Causes of admissions of rural African patients to Murchison Hospital, Natal, South Africa.	An analysis has been made of causes of admission of black patients in 1991 to Murchison Hospital, Port Shepstone, Natal. Of 6675 total admissions, 6329 (95%) were classifiable. Of the latter, 1462 (23%) were aged 12 years and-younger, namely, 763 boys and 699 girls. Their chief causes of admission were pneumonia, gastroenteritis, trauma, acute glomerular nephritis, and malnutritional diseases. Of 4867 adults (73%), 1536 were males and 3331 females. Among men, chief causes were tuberculosis, congestive cardiac failure, hypertension and cerebral vascular accidents. Among women, apart from pregnancy, chief causes of admission were disorders of pregnancy, tuberculosis, congestive cardiac failure, pneumonia, diabetes, and hypertension. Of western diseases, 3.9% of adults were admitted for diabetes, and 2.8% for asthma. The general pattern of admissions is similar to that in other rural hospitals. The causes of admissions are discussed, regarding (1) public health improvements occurring, and (2) means of promoting further improvements by (a) community self-help, and (b) help from State health and other services.
Behçet's disease in South African blacks: report of five cases.	Behçet's disease is a multisystemic disorder characterized by oral and genital ulcers. Most commonly seen in the Middle East and Japan, it is rare in black Africans. Behçet's disease in five South African blacks is reported. The patients had a mucocutaneous type of the disease, similar to the form prevailing in Western Europe and the United States. One of the patients had neurologic manifestations, and none had uveitis. In four patients genital and cutaneous lesions responded to administration of dapsone, colchicine, or both.
Staff radiation doses during eight years in a nuclear medicine radiopharmacy.	It is important that staff radiation doses be kept 'as low as reasonably achievable' (ALARA). Staff working in the radiopharmacy and nursing staff responsible for injecting radionuclides are being monitored constantly in our department. We report here on the effective doses and doses to the hands received by staff at two hospitals during 8 years from January 1985 to December 1992. In addition to the doses determined monthly by the South African Bureau of Standards' Radiation Protection Service (SABS), radiation doses received to the hands and whole body were measured every week using lithium fluoride thermoluminescent dosimetry (TLD). The workload (number of patient studies each year) and the estimated amount of 99Tcm received per month were also established, and results have been expressed in relation to these where possible. The combined radiation doses and the absorbed dose per unit activity a single radiographer would have received, since 1988 when radiopharmacy duties were centralized, were calculated. The highest total radiation dose received in any one year by any one person at hospital A was 223.53 mSv to the hands, and 10.20 mSv and 8.37 mSv to the whole body depending on the dosimeter used. The corresponding values for hospital B were 54.05 mSv to the hands and 6.94 mSv and 4.43 mSv to the whole body. If only one radiographer should do all the work the calculated highest dose received would be 447.06 mSv to the hands and 9.68 mSv SABS effective dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Application of diode array detection for the identification of poisoning by traditional medicines.	A large percentage of acute poisonings in black South Africans is due to traditional medicines and plants. The combination of isocratic high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with on line UV spectrum detection via a diode array configuration has been applied to the detection and identification of traditional medicines (and plants) in poisoned patients. Four standard isocratic systems are used. Combination of the retention times in the HPLC chromatogram and a comparison of the full spectra between 190-600 nm of the peaks obtained from extracted patient samples (urine or blood) with that of traditional medicine extracts (collected and stored in a reference data file) makes reliable identification possible. Such information could improve the quality of data accumulation and therapeutic strategies.
Clinical nurse specialist]	Advanced nursing practice depends upon proper preparation through education and skill development. Skills should constantly be redefined and improved through out professional life. Therefore nurses need a safe professional framework in which to practice--called "protected autonomy". Critical debate between the CNS and nurse practitioner, about practice activity are a means to professional development. Support from a CNS could be an unshackling process--an opening of previously locked doors. Far from being a corrective experience, it should be seen as an exploratory relationship in an environment which aids development and promotes change. The CNS brings expertise to the day-to-day practice world of nurses. She has the ability to demonstrate excellence in practice, and the opportunity to bring to the clinical setting the expertise that can only be acquired over many years of learning. The CNS has a very clear "image" in her head of what nursing is. She promotes care which is personalized and patient-centered, not ritualized or institutionalized.
Monitoring the cost-effective use of operating theatres.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the utilisation of operating theatres in an academic 2000 bed hospital in order to assess nursing manhours. The incidence of operations performed over a 4 year period, differentiating between cold and emergency cases, was mapped. The theatre list (booked cases) was checked against actual operations performed, identifying an 8% cancellation incidence. This was further analysed using specialisation and reasons for cancellations as indicators. Further analyses per theatre were done, using 3 indicators, i.e. scheduled, anaesthetic and surgical times. These showed +/- a 20% difference between anaesthetic and surgical time and was identified as an area for remedial action. The final analysis showed that more nursing manhours (100%) were made provision for than the scheduled theatre time required. It was suggested that the present nursing allocation system to theatres be reconsidered.
Community health research by PHC nurses in Kwazulu.	Epidemiological research in community health has been practised by Primary Health Care nursing students in KwaZulu for the past fifteen years. This consists of a descriptive community survey to determine the priority needs, followed by an investigation into one of these needs, usually by means of an interview survey of 50 households. The process is largely self-directed, with expert guidance and assistance readily available. The status and support of the PHC nurses in KwaZulu needs to be enhanced in order to make them more effective.
Classical Kaposi's sarcoma in Caucasians in Africa--experience at the Johannesburg Hospital (1978-1992).	The data are scant concerning classical Kaposi's sarcoma (CKS) among the Caucasian population of Africa. A description of the clinical features of 15 such patients, treated and followed up at the Johannesburg General Hospital over a 14-year period (1978-1992) is presented. All patients were negative for the human immunodeficiency virus. After a mean follow-up of 50 months (range: 7-168 months), 2 patients are alive with absent or minimal disease; 1 patient is alive with stable disease and 1 has active disease involving his extremities. Three patients were lost to follow-up but had minimal or no disease when last seen. Five patients died of unrelated causes but also had minimal or no disease at their last visit. One patient died of sepsis related to active KS. Only two patients died of progressive KS. No alterations in humoral or cellular immunity were demonstrated in 2 patients with persistent disease. Four (27%) patients developed lymphoproliferative disorders including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, Hodgkin's disease and Castleman's disease (angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia) preceding or following the diagnosis of CKS. These data confirm the indolent nature and good outcome of the classical form of Kaposi's sarcoma among Caucasians in the southern African region. The marked association between CKS and lymphoproliferative disorders warrants a long-term awareness and continued monitoring for these complications.
Superior fatigue resistance of elite black South African distance runners.	Black athletes currently dominate long-distance running events in South Africa. In an attempt to explain an apparently superior running ability of black South African athletes at distances > 3 km, we compared physiological measurements in the fastest 9 white and 11 black South African middle-to long-distance runners. Whereas both groups ran at a similar percentage of maximal O2 uptake (%VO2max) over 1.65-5 km, the %VO2max sustained by black athletes was greater than that of white athletes at distances > 5 km (P < 0.001). Although both groups had similar training volumes, black athletes reported that they completed more exercise at > 80% VO2max (36 +/- 18 vs. 14 +/- 7%: P < 0.005). When corrections were made for the black athletes' smaller body mass, their superior ability to sustain a high %VO2max could not be explained by any differences in VO2max, maximal ventilation, or submaximal running economy. Superior distance running performance of the black athletes was not due to a greater (+/- 50%) percentage of type I fibers but was associated with lower blood lactate concentrations during exercise. Time to fatigue during repetitive isometric muscle contractions was also longer in black runners (169 +/- 65 vs. 97 +/- 69 s; P < 0.05), but whether this observation explains the superior endurance or was due to the lower peak muscle strength (46.3 +/- 10.3 vs. 67.5 +/- 18.0 Nm/l lean thigh volume; P < 0.01) remains to be established.
Genetic diversity of Helicobacter pylori indexed with respect to clinical symptomatology, using a 16S rRNA and a species-specific DNA probe.	DNA probes are described which identify group and fingerprint strains of the human gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori, on the basis of well-defined band homologies. A 544 bp internal fragment of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene was generated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers derived from the Escherichia coli rRNA gene sequence. In genomic Southern blots this probe detected restriction site variation around these loci, generating simple but strain-specific molecular fingerprints. A small conserved chromosomal fragment of 1.2 kbp, Hps, species-specific for H. pylori, was obtained by cloning random HindIII fragments into pUC19. It was useful for dot-blot identification, and also separated isolates into one major and two minor groups. When results for these two probes were combined, a baseline characterization of genotype was obtained. A band-matching database of molecular fingerprints for the type strain and 63 clinical isolates of H. pylori from asymptomatic, ulcer and gastritis contexts is presented. No significant association between the genotypes at this level of definition and the associated clinical symptomatology of the isolates was detected.
Taxonomic affinity of the early Homo cranium from Swartkrans, South Africa.	A quantitative analysis that employs randomization methods and distance statistics has been undertaken in an attempt to clarify the taxonomic affinities of the partial Homo cranium (SK 847) from Member 1 of the Swartkrans Formation. Although SK 847 has been argued to represent early H. erectus, exact randomization tests reveal that the magnitude of differences between it and two crania that have been attributed to that taxon (KNM-ER 3733 and KNM-WT 15000) is highly unlikely to be encountered in a modern human sample drawn from eastern and southern Africa. Some of the variables that differentiate SK 847 from the two early H. erectus crania (e.g., nasal breadth, frontal breadth, mastoid process size) have been considered to be relevant characters in the definition of that taxon. Just as the significant differences between SK 847 and the two early H. erectus crania make attribution of the Swartkrans specimen to that taxon unlikely, the linkage of SK 847 to KNM-ER 1813, and especially Stw 53, suggests that the Swartkrans cranium may have its closest affinity with H. habilis sensu lato. Differences from KNM-ER 1813, however, hint that the South African fossils may represent a species of early Homo that has not been sampled in the Plio-Pleistocene of eastern Africa. The similarity of SK 847 and Stw 53 may support faunal evidence which suggests that Sterkfontein Member 5 and Swartkrans Member 1 are of similar geochronological age.
The Ray Alexander Workers Clinic--a model for worker-based health services in South Africa?	During the period of current political transition, concern for the future of South Africa's health services have led to increased interest in different models for the provision and financing of health care. These debates have included an examination of the concept of Managed Care and the ideas of Health Maintainance Organization. Progressive trade unions, particularly, have been faced with the prospect of promoting private sector health care if they are directly to meet their members health needs, while at the same time seeking an equitable health care system for a future democratic South Africa. The Ray Alexander Workers Clinic is presented as a model of a worker-based health service which attempts to address this contradiction. Important lessons for a future National Health Service may be learnt. The role of worker control and cost containment are emphasized and implications for integration into State Services and relationships to social services for the broader community are explored. An argument is made that worker-based health services offer excellent possibilities for integration in a future National Health Service in South Africa that is centred on a Primary Health Care approach.
The National Health Services Commission, 1942-1944--its origins and outcome.	An analysis of the origins and outcome of the Gluckman Commission is relevant to the current health service debate in South Africa. Fundamental to the report's recommendations was the establishment of a unitary health service responsible for all health care functions within the Union of South Africa. On this proposal rested the success of the other key recommendations. The sequence of events following the publication of the report demonstrated that piecemeal restructuring, determined primarily by political considerations, failed. Unless policy-makers today are committed to a unitary health system with democratic control, current initiatives to restructure health services will probably remain parochial, contributing little to the improvement of health care for all South Africans.
Patients who reattend after head injury: a high risk group.	To assess risk factors for important neurosurgical effects in patients who reattend after head injury.
Acceptability to general practitioners of national health insurance and capitation as a reimbursement mechanism.	To determine general practitioners' attitudes to national health insurance (NHI) and to capitation as a mechanism of reimbursement. To explore determinants of these attitudes.
Follow-up of conservatively treated sleep apnoea patients.	Polysomnograms have been recorded at our laboratory since 1985 for the diagnosis of sleep apnoea. Until the recent availability of continuous positive airway pressure devices in Johannesburg, it appeared that some of our subjects were receiving only conservative or no treatment. Structured interviews were conducted with 63 patients with positive polysomnographic findings of sleep apnoea/hypopnoea (SAH), and, where possible, with sleeping partners. Information was obtained about the patients' understanding of the diagnosis by the referring doctor, the recommended treatment and psychosocial consequences. The primary reason for the initial consultation was excessive daytime sleepiness (43%). Diagnoses following polysomnography included SAH (65%) and narcolepsy (6%), while 10% were told they had nothing to be concerned about. Some form of treatment was recommended to 80% of patients, usually weight loss (60%) or medication (59%). Psychosocial consequences were prominent and included a perception of reduced work capacity (62%) and compromised safety (56%). At the time of the interview 90% of patients were experiencing one or more symptoms associated with SAH. These findings support the serious nature of SAH and confirm the need for adequate treatment centres in South Africa.
Monitoring of rotavirus infection in a paediatric hospital by RNA electrophoresis.	During the spring of 1987 and the autumn of 1988, stool specimens were collected from infants and young children in the paediatric unit at H. F. Verwoerd Hospital, Pretoria, and examined for the presence of rotaviruses to assess the potential for hospital-acquired infection in the paediatric wards. Stool samples were also collected from children admitted to the hospital for causes unrelated to gastro-enteritis to investigate the possible asymptomatic carriage of rotavirus in this population. Hospital-acquired rotavirus infection was determined in only 9% of cases. Very little asymptomatic carriage of the virus was identified. Electrophoretic analysis of the rotavirus strains showed that the majority of the infections (20 of 42) were associated with a particular strain with a long RNA profile, while 7 minor strains co-circulated (5 with a long electrophoretype and 2 with a short one). An apparent small outbreak of nosocomial infection with a single strain was observed to occur in one of the paediatric wards during the spring and early summer.
Focal epithelial hyperplasia of the mouth: recently discovered in South Africa.	Seventy-six cases of focal epithelial hyperplasia are encountered during an epidemiological survey in the Western Cape Province of South Africa. They affected only Cape Coloureds and were confined to pupils of reform schools and residents of a secluded community. This pattern of distribution, coupled with its typical clinical and histological features and the fact that viral particles were observed in lesions, indicates a communicable disease of viral origin, possibly a virus of the papova group. The recent discovery of its presence in South Africa indicates that it may be newly introduced into the country or that it is a new or hitheto undetected manifestation of an existing viral disease.
Routine obstetric ultrasound examinations in South Africa: cost and effect on perinatal outcome--a prospective randomised controlled trial.	To compare routine midtrimester with selective obstetric ultrasonography concerning the Health Service cost and the effect on perinatal outcome.
Presymptomatic diagnosis of familial adenomatous polyposis using intragenic polymorphisms and CA repeats flanking the APC gene.	To assess the value of DNA markers for the diagnosis of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) in South Africa, two highly informative CA-repeat polymorphisms (LNS CA-repeat in D5S346 and YN5.64c CA-repeat in D5S82) flanking the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene, and three intragenic restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) (exon 11/RsaI, exon 15.11/MspI, 3'UTR/SspI), were used for haplotype analysis in 13 South African families with the disease. The combination of these polymorphic markers proved to be highly informative and allowed an accurate diagnosis of FAP in 34/35 of the at-risk individuals analysed. Indirect molecular screening can therefore provide a comprehensive pre-clinical diagnostic test for FAP in South Africa. No predominant haplotype was found to be associated with FAP within the South African population. This suggests the absence of founder-type mutations in affected families and therefore marker studies remain important for the pre-clinical diagnosis of FAP in South Africa.
Toxic hepatitis in black patients in natal.	The clinical and pathological features of toxic centrilobular zonal necrosis in Natal Blacks are described. It is suggested that this condition may be caused by the toxic action of Callilepis laureola (known to the Zulu as 'impila'). This plant and other herbs are used by many Blacks for self-medication or are prescribed by herbalists and witchdoctors.
Sick leave--honour or expediency?	Experience has shown that doctors tend to be overgenerous when awarding sick leave. Quite rightly their first consideration is their patient, but frequently too little thought is given to the overall effect that excessive absence because of illness may have have on the patient, on the company in which he works, and on the country as a whole. Economically, these effects may be profound. A tempered industrial viewpoint is put forward and South African law regarding sick leave is outlined. A plea is made to doctors to safeguard their sick leave notes, prescription pads or letterhead paper, to award sick leave on merit, giving legible sick leave notes containing the necessary information, and to the profession not to overlook the wider aspects of the matter.
The changing epidemiology of serum albumin levels in Southern Africa.	It is generally accepted that serum albumin levels are the best criterion of protein nutritional status. In order to investigate this situation in the Black populations of South Africa, serum albumin concentrations were determined in several hundred normal individuals during each of three large-scale epidemiological surveys. The populations, who lived at very different socio-economic levels, were a tribal Xhosa group, a rural Tswana community and a sample of the detribalized urban population of Soweto. In each group males and females had similar serum albumin levels, which decreased with advancing age; however, there were significant overall differences between each of these populations (P less than 0,05). In distinction to the findings in other surveys, the rural group had the highest serum albumin level, while the tribal population had the lowest. It is apparent that the semi-westernized rural Tswana group enjoy an adequate standard of protein nutrition, the urban community is in a marginal situation, and the tribal Xhosa group is seriously undernourished.
Perinatal mortality in Cape Town.	Perinatal mortality in Cape Town has progressively decreased in all racial groups over the past 60 years. The perinatal mortality rate for Coloureds and Blacks, however, remains at 20 per 1 000 more than for Whites. While the stillbirth rate approximates the early neonatal death rate in Whites, the stillbirth rate for Coloureds and Blacks is double the rate for early neonatal deaths. Although there is a significantly higher early neonatal death rate for Coloureds and Blacks, the major component of perinatal loss is stillbirth and 80% of stillbirths occur before the onset of labour. Focus should be on the detection of the fetus at risk, with, perhaps, earlier intervention.
The relationship between maternal height and weight at booking and perinatal mortality.	In this study, more of the Coloured women weighed less than 45 kg and more of them were significantly shorter than Black and White women. The short (less than 149 cm) Coloureds had a high perinatal mortality, as did the thin Coloureds (less than 45 kg). The short, thin Coloured women had the highest perinatal mortality, and fetal loss in this group was associated with preterm delivery, stillbirths before labour and fetoplacental inadequacy. Maternal height is an indicator of nutrition in childhood and maternal weight an indicator of more recent nutrition. Weight gain in pregnancy is particularly important in short, thin individuals.
Hypertension in pregnancy and perinatal mortality.	The effect of various forms of hypertension on perinatal mortality has been investigated. Non-essential, non-proteinuric hypertension had relatively little effect on perinatal mortality, whereas essential and proteinuric forms of hypertension had a marked influence. Diastolic blood pressures of less than 110 mmHg did not influence perinatal mortality. Fetal loss from hypertensive disease was largely accounted for by fetoplacental inadequacy, accidental haemorrhage and preterm delivery. Management more suited to individual needs and induction of labour, once biological and lung maturity has been achieved, is advocated.
Sequence variation and subtyping of human and simian T-cell lymphotropic virus type I strains from South Africa.	We report on the subtyping of South African primate T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (PTLV-I) strains by investigating the LTR region using sequence analysis and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) techniques. DNA from either uncultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs); cultured PBMC or cell lines of eight human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I); and two simian T-cell lymphotropic virus type I (STLV-I) strains (Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), cloned, and sequenced. The samples originated from different geographical regions in South Africa. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated using the neighbor-joining method. The South African HTLV-I strains were of Cosmopolitan origin and similar to each other. RFLP analysis confirmed this subtyping. A divergence of 0.3 to 1.6% between the Cosmopolitan strains was observed, while the divergence between the HTLV-I and STLV-I strains ranged from 6.3 to 7%. The STLV-I strains were closely related to that of a chimpanzee, providing evidence of interspecies transmission.
Detection of four mutations in six unrelated South African patients with acute intermittent porphyria.	We have screened the hydroxymethylbilane synthase cDNA from six South African patients with acute intermittent porphyria, using a combination of chemical cleavage mismatch analysis and direct sequencing of asymmetrically amplified PCR products. Four mutations were detected, a novel T insertion (771insT) and three missense mutations (R26H, R116W and R173Q). The 771insT mutation produces a stop codon, thirty-three codons downstream and a loss of approximately 20% of the protein is predicted. The R116W mutation, which was found to have a high prevalence in the Dutch population, was detected in three unrelated South African patients.
A blood-result turn-around time survey to improve congenital syphilis prevention in a rural area.	The results of a turn-around time study of blood specimens for syphilis serology in antenatal clinic attenders between 19 rural clinics and their base hospital, including a follow-up survey to assess the impact of interventions, are described. The objective of the study was to determine how long blood samples took to get from the clinic to the laboratory and back again. The time between each phase was recorded by inclusion of a dating system on the documentation that routinely accompanies the blood samples. The longest delay was the time at the laboratory. The results were reported to the various sectors involved in the handling of the blood samples. The solution was to make all divisions of the health service aware of the needs of the clinic staff and clinic service users, and to change laboratory routine.
Human papillomavirus DNA in oral squamous cell carcinomas from an African population sample.	The incidence of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is on the increase in developing countries.
Anemia in urban underprivileged children. Iron, folate, and vitamin B12 nutrition.	The prevalence and type of nutritional anemia was investigated in 344 children aged 1 to 16 years of mixed race and living in a poor urban setting. Iron deficiency anemia was common in 1-year-old children (23%) as was biochemical evidence of iron deficiency (53%). Anemia rates were minimal in older children and the prevalence of iron deficiency decreased with age. Folate deficiency did not appear to contribute to the etiology of anemia, and nutritional vitamin B12 deficiency was not present. No-relationship could be found between a number of familial variables and hematological nutritional status. It is suggested that to identify families whose children are at risk for nutritional anemia new approaches will be needed to define their characteristics.
Psychoactive constituents of the genus Sceletium N.E.Br. and other Mesembryanthemaceae: a review.	The use by the Khoisan of South Africa of Sceletium plants in psychoactive preparations has often been alluded to in the literature. However, much of it is fragmentary and contradictory. The current review reassembles the historical data recorded over a 300-year period, describes techniques for the preparation and use of "kougoed' from plants of Sceletium and documents the subjective experiences of a number of contemporary users. Apart from chewing the dried product, after "fermentation', there are reports of uses as tinctures for sedation and analgesia, chewing the material directly and smoking the residue after chewing. The symbolic connections of Sceletium with eland antelopes, the "trance animals' par excellence of the San hunter-gatherers is noted. Observations by Paterson (1789) and reports of contemporary users indicate a synergism and potentiation with smoked Cannabis. There is no evidence to support the view that "kougoed' or Sceletium alkaloids are hallucinogenic. The alkaloid distribution in Sceletium and other members of the family Mesembryanthemaceae are considered. Chemical studies have indicated as many as nine alkaloids in Sceletium which fall into three distinct structural categories. Mesembrine, the alkaloid first isolated and named is not the dominant constituent of plants and is weakly narcotic. Evidence is assembled to suggest that traditional and contemporary methods of preparation serve to reduce levels of potentially harmful oxalates, which are found in Sceletium and other Mesembryanthemaceae. It is concluded that there is a need for further pharmacological studies on these alkaloids, based on their narcotic-anxiolytic properties, strong synergism with other psychomimetics, moderate toxicity and anti-cancer activity.
'Wrongful conception', 'wrongful birth' and 'wrongful life': the first South African cases.	Internationally case law has developed in regard to actions which in due course were given the following labels. "Wrongful pregnancy" or "wrongful conception" for cases where a healthy but unwanted child is born, following negligent contraceptive advice by a doctor or a negligent sterilization or abortion procedure, and the parents claim damages; "wrongful birth" where such a claim is brought by the parents of an abnormal or disabled child; "wrongful life" where a claim is brought by or on behalf of the abnormal or disabled child itself. The first judgments in South Africa were handed down during the past seven years and are discussed in this article.
Implications of the development of managed health care in the South African private health care sector.	The South African private health care sector has been looking to managed health care (MHC) to control the unsustainable cost escalations of the last decade. This paper draws on experience of MHC in other countries, particularly the USA, to assess its potential for solving the private sector's difficulties. In addition, it looks at problems which may be associated with MHC in a South African setting. The conclusion reached is that MHC alone cannot be seen as a panacea for the private sector's financial problems, although it may produce a degree of saving and be part of a solution. It is argued that MHC per se seems unlikely to compromise equity, quality of care or the public health care sector, and that it may potentially promote national health policy objectives. However, if MHC's benefits are to be maximised and potential negative effects controlled, ongoing monitoring of MHC, coupled with an appropriate regulatory and incentive environment, will be required.
Counting the cost of language services in psychiatry.	To document interpreter utilisation at a major South African mental hospital over a 2-month period in 1993.
Apolipoprotein B levels and related factors in a rural white South African community--the CORIS study. Coronary Risk Factor Study.	In a survey of the Coronary Risk Factor Study (CORIS), apolipoprotein B (apoB) levels were determined to ascertain their impact on coronary heart disease (CHD) risk. Other CHD risk factors associated with apoB were also identified.
Assessment and 2-year follow-up of some factors associated with severity of respiratory infections in early childhood.	To assess the effect of some factors on the severity of acute respiratory infection (ARI) in children.
Comparative costs of mobile and fixed-clinic primary health care services.	With restructuring and rationalisation of health services in South Africa imminent, the development of methods for comparing and evaluating health services is of great importance at both national and local level, including comparisons of cost-efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The costs of different methods of delivering primary health care in a local authority through mobile and fixed-clinic services have been analysed and aspects of their cost-efficiency compared. The information gained from such an analysis can be used for management purposes to optimise both the use of resources and the quality of service provided at local level.
South African geneticists' attitudes to the present Abortion and Sterilisation Act of 1975.	To ascertain the attitudes of clinical geneticists and genetic counsellors practising in South Africa to the current Abortion and Sterilisation Act of 1975 (the Act).
The potential for preventing the delivery and perinatal mortality of low-birth-weight babies in a black urban population.	To determine the potential for preventing the delivery and perinatal mortality of low-birth-weight (LBW) babies in a black urban population.
Is there a place for radionuclide bone scintigraphy in the management of radiograph-negative scaphoid trauma?	To evaluate the role of radionuclide bone scanning in patients with suspected scaphoid trauma, particularly in those with negative radiographs.
The morphometry and pathological anatomy of the lumbar spine in South African negroes and caucasoids with specific reference to spinal stenosis.	Direct measurements were made on 2,166 lumbar vertebrae of 433 adult negro and caucasoid skeletons. On statistical analysis, forty-five vertebrae in twenty-seven skeletons were found to be stenotic, the mid-sagittal diameter being the significantly reduced dimension. Whereas spinal stenosis syndromes are rare in South African negroes, the lumbar canal is marginally narrower in the negro. There is a uniformity of configuration and capacity of the lumbar spinal canal, which transcends race and sex. By a new method of determining the dorsal limit of the lumbar canal on lateral plain radiography, the overall average lower limit of normal of the mid-sagittal diameter is established at 15 millimetres, and of the transverse diameter 20 millimetres. Bony degenerative changes are more likely to cause neurological compression in the nerve root tunnel than in the spinal canal. The role of skeletal narrowing of the spinal canal as an exclusive cause of the spinal stenosis syndrome may have been exaggerated.
Tick resistance to pesticides in the R.S.A. - some observations (author's transl)]	Observations on the screening for resistance against acaricides in both larvae and adults of tick species commonly found on cattly in South Africa, have shown that widespread resistance of varying degrees occurs in strains of all these species against compounds of the arsenical, organochlorine and organophosphorous groups. With few exceptions the degree of resistance is of a low order and probably indicative of selection at the low acaricide concentrations generally used by stockowners. The distribution of less susceptible and resistant strains is patchy, and fully susceptible strains are found in the same areas.
Sheep scab: control and problems in South Africa (author's transl)]	This is a summary compiled on a regional basis from reports of officials of the Division of Veterinary Services in respect of sheep scab outbreaks occurring between 1967 and 1976. Possible sources of infection responsible for outbreaks occurring between 1940 and 1966 are discussed. Action to be taken where the disease is suspected, and control measures in terms of the Animal Diseases and Parasites Act (13/1956) when the disease has been confirmed, are dealt with. Possible causes for the continuing spread of the disease and dipping problems are discussed. Recommendations for the future control and eradication of sheep scab in the Republic of South Africa are put forward.
Planning of oral health services for the personnel of the Kruger National Park.	A total of 625 employees of the National Parks Board in the Kruger Park were dentally examined in order to make a community diagnosis. The results indicated that periodontal disease was a major cause for concern. An appropriate strategy is proposed for an oral health care service.
Clinical evaluation of four dental amalgams over a three year period.	The aim of this study was to compare the clinical durability of four dental amalgams. In each of eighty-two patients one class 2 cavity was restored with Dispersalloy (Johnson and Johnson) which served as the control and all the other class 2 cavities were randomly restored with one of the following amalgams: Amalgaphase, Amalga 43 (Amalgam Alloys-South Africa) or Permite C (Southern Dental Industries). Matrix bands were placed and Kalzinol bases and Polyvar varnishes applied in all cavities. The amalgams were mixed according to the manufacturers' instructions, the cavities overpacked with amalgam, condensed by hand, carved and then burnished with a ball burnisher. Twenty-four hours later all restorations were polished and colour photographs taken. The restorations were evaluated using the Ryge and Snyder (1973) evaluation system, as well as comparison of the colour photographs. The Fisher's Exact Test was used for the statistical analysis. The two South African manufactured amalgams compared well with the two imported amalgams. However, at the end of the third year the score for the marginal integrity of Amalgaphase, one of the local products, was significantly different (p < 0.083) and inferior to that of the control, Dispersalloy. Evidence is produced to suggest that over a three year period Amalgaphase performed better than Dispersalloy, Amalga 43 and Permite C.
Year performance and final achievement in a physiology course.	The relationship between year performance and final achievement is examined for a second-year physiology course. A positive and significant correlation exists between the year mark and the examination mark with the predictive value of the year mark ranging from 44 to 85 per cent. Virtually all students with a year mark above 55 per cent pass the year. It is suggested that, in the case of failure, only students with a passing year mark should be allowed a supplementary examination and/or that the year mark should still count. In addition, it is clear that a strong case exists for using the year mark as the sole measure of pass or failure.
Partial denture prosthodontic procedures employed by practising graduates of the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.	This study sought answers to the following two questions related to the teaching of partial denture prosthodontics in the Department of Prosthetic Dentistry at the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg (Wits). Firstly, do practising graduates from Wits assiduously apply, or do they perhaps ignore, the concepts, principles, and practices taught to them at undergraduate level? Secondly, is there any merit in providing additional tutorials on partial denture prosthodontics to undergraduate students at Wits? A questionnaire was mailed to dentists who had graduated at Wits between 1979 and 1986. This sample of 302 subjects was divided into two groups: Group I--those who had graduated between 1979 and 1982; Group II--those who had graduated between 1983 and 1986 and had received additional tutorials on partial denture design. The results suggest that a wide gap exists between faculty beliefs about partial denture design and fabrication and the methods used in general dental practice. Moreover, additional tutorials had some effect on the attitudes and practices of the respondents.
Serum IgM antibody response to the galactose-inhibitable adherence lectin of Entameoba histolytica.	An ELISA for detection of serum IgM antibodies to the galactose-inhibitable adherence lectin of Entamoeba histolytica revealed that 2.8% of uninfected controls, 0.0% of controls infected with other parasites, 13.4% of asymptomatic amebic infections, 55% of colitis patients, and 77% of amebic liver abscess patients from Cairo, Egypt and Durban, South Africa had serum anti-lectin IgM antibodies. Of acute amebic colitis patients with symptoms for less than one week, only 6% possessed serum IgG anti-lectin antibodies, yet 45% had serum IgM antibodies to the amebic lectin. This compares with 65% of sera in acute colitis patients positive for lectin antigen as determined by ELISA with anti-lectin monoclonal antibodies. In conclusion, an ELISA for serum anti-lectin IgM antibodies appears to have greater clinical utility in the setting of acute amebic colitis than an ELISA for anti-lectin IgG antibodies, but is no more sensitive than an ELISA for detection of lectin antigen in sera.
Teaching medical students on the ethical dimensions of human rights: meeting the challenge in South Africa.	Previous health policies in South Africa neglected the teaching of ethics and human rights to health professionals. In April 1995, a pilot course was run at the University of Cape Town in which the ethical dimensions of human rights issues in South Africa were explored.
Tensions in setting health care priorities for South Africa's children.	The new South African constitution commits the government to guarantee "basic health services" for every child under 18. Primary health care for pregnant women and children under six and elements of essential primary health care have received priority. At present, there is little analysis of the moral considerations involved in making choices about more advanced or costly health care which may, arguably, also be "basic". This paper illustrates some of the tensions in setting priorities for a just macro-allocation of children's health care, given the realities of need and scarce resources, and the commitment to equality of basic opportunities.
Gender audit of health research--10 years of the South African Medical Journal.	To examine the extent to which gender bias, which has been identified as a feature of medical research internationally, is present in medical research published in South Africa.
Lung function in South African children with cystic fibrosis.	To determine the pattern of lung function in stable cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and to investigate the relationship of abnormal lung function to demographic variables, CF genotype and pulmonary colonisation with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA).
Guidelines for the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Working Group of the South African Pulmonology Society.	This guideline has been developed in order to optimise the management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) at all levels of the health care system in South Africa. It contains an action plan for early recognition and appropriate treatment of this common condition.
In vitro activities of 15 antimicrobial agents against clinical isolates of South African enterococci.	The activities of a panel of currently available antibiotics and the investigational agents LY 333328, linezolid, CL 331,002, CL 329,998, moxifloxacin (BAY 12-8039), trovafloxacin, and quinupristin-dalfopristin against 274 clinical isolates of enterococci were determined. No vancomycin resistance or beta-lactamase production was observed. Except for 12 isolates (all non-Enterococcus faecalis) showing reduced susceptibility to quinupristin-dalfopristin (MIC, >/=4 microg/ml), the new agents exhibited promising in vitro antienterococcal activity.
Visual loss in a returning traveller with tick typhus.	Rickettsial diseases are increasingly found world-wide and should be considered in febrile patients returning from abroad. This case report describes the vasculitic complications of a patient returning from the Republic of South Africa with tick typhus.
Extensive polymorphism of the FUT2 gene in an African (Xhosa) population of South Africa.	The human secretor type alpha(1,2)fucosyltransferase gene (FUT2) polymorphism was investigated in Xhosa and Caucasian populations of South Africa by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism and DNA sequencing. Six new base substitutions were found in the coding region of FUT2. A single base (C) deletion at nucleotide 778, which led to a frame shift and produced a stop codon at codon 275, was responsible for the enzyme inactivation. Three nonsynonymous base substitutions, A40G (lle14Val), C379T (Arg127Cys), and G481A (Asp161Asn), and two synonymous base substitutions, A375G (Glu125) and C480T (His160), were also identified in functional alleles. As a result, seven new alleles, Se40, Se481, Se40,481, Se357,480, Se357,379,480, Se375, and se357,480,778 were identified. Population studies revealed that an allele containing a nonsense mutation G428A (Trp143stop) (se428) was the common null allele in both Xhosa and Caucasian populations, whereas an allele containing a missense A385T (Ile129Phe) mutation (se357,385), which is the common null allele in Orientals, was found to be absent from both populations. The heterozygosity rates of FUT2 genotypes were as high as 0.75 in the Xhosa population and 0.65 in the Caucasian population. Therefore, the extensive polymorphism and race specificity of the FUT2 gene make it suitable for application as a new tool in genetic studies of modern human evolutionary history.
Self-concept of academic ability as a function of sex, age, and academic achievement among African adolescents.	This study examined (a) sex and age variations for scores on Self-concept of Academic Ability and academic achievement among 244 African adolescents attending a coeducational high school and (b) correlations between scores on Self-concept of Academic Ability and academic achievement by sex and age. No significant sex differences were found, but there were significant age differences on the Self-concept scores and measures of English, science, and history but not in mathematics. A significant positive correlation was found between Self-concept scores and academic achievement for boys and girls and in all age groups, but the magnitude of the correlations with achievement in mathematics was stronger among boys than among girls.
Dental mutilation in southern African history and prehistory with special reference to the "Cape Flats Smile".	Southern Africa has a long history of dental mutilation in the form of dental chipping and of intentional removal of anterior teeth. The first evidence is found in the skeletons of Early Iron Age populations (ca. 1500 years before present), but the incidence decreases in archaeological sites of more recent origin. In modern times, dental mutilation appears to have been limited to the people of the countries further north in Africa, but the one exception is the presence of deliberate incisor removal amongst the communities of the Western Cape. It is hypothesised in this paper that the modern practice in the Cape is associated with youthful gangs in the poorer communities, and acts as part of a rite of passage into adulthood. The "socio-sexual" theory, as reflected in such names as the "passion gap", is shown to be both wrong and insulting. The name "Cape Flats Smile" is recommended as a more appropriate and respectful term for the phenomenon.
Microbial populations associated with commercially produced South African sorghum beer as determined by conventional and Petrifilm plating.	Microbial populations of 46 commercially produced sorghum beer samples from retail outlets in Johannesburg, South Africa, were enumerated and characterized. Aerobic plate counts, lactic acid bacteria counts and yeast counts were performed by conventional and Petrifilm plating. Conventional methods yielded yeast counts of 7.84 log CFU/ml, lactic acid bacteria counts of 6.44 log CFU/ml and aerobic plate counts of 5.96 log CFU/ml. In comparison, Petrifilm counts were 7.85 log CFU/ml for yeasts, 5.31 log CFU/ml for lactic acid bacteria and 5.34 log CFU/ml for aerobic bacteria. Characterization of 419 predominant bacterial isolates from Standard One Nutrient Agar, MRS Agar and corresponding Petrifilm plates yielded 88.0% lactic acid bacteria, 8.4% Bacillus species, 2.9% Micrococcus species and 0.7% Gram negative bacteria. Composition of predominant lactic acid bacteria populations from Standard One Nutrient Agar and both types of Petrifilm plates showed marginal differences. Increased proportions of heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria were, however, isolated from conventional MRS Agar compared to the modified Petrifilm product which represented the equivalent to MRS Agar.
Repetition of parasuicide--ICD-10 personality disorders and adversity.	Patients with a history of previous parasuicide were compared to those who had made their first attempt. A scale for suicidal ideation derived from the Scaled Version of the General Health Questionnaire was completed by patients. ICD-10 personality disorder diagnoses were derived from the Standardized Assessment of Personality which was administered to knowledgeable informants. Logistic regression showed that unemployment, increasing severity of suicidal ideation, previous psychiatric treatment and borderline personality disorder increased the risk of reports of previous parasuicide. Anankastic personality disorder decreased the risk of reports of previous parasuicide. Unemployment and specific personality disorders have independent risks for repetition of parasuicide. Specific ICD-10 personality disorders may increase or decrease the risk for repetition of parasuicide.
Antiretroviral drugs as a public health intervention for pregnant HIV-infected women in rural South Africa: an issue of cost-effectiveness and capacity.	To estimate cost-effectiveness and capacity requirements for providing antiretroviral drugs to pregnant HIV-infected women in rural South Africa.
The VS and V blood group polymorphisms in Africans: a serologic and molecular analysis.	VS and V are common red cell antigens in persons of African origin. The molecular background of these Rh system antigens is poorly understood.
Sedation for uncontrolled symptoms in a South African hospice.	The need to sedate terminally ill patients for uncontrolled symptoms has been previously documented in a few reports. A retrospective consecutive chart review was undertaken at a hospice in Cape Town, South Africa, to develop an understanding of the local experience and assess the potential for improved patient management. Twenty-three of seventy-six (30%) patients received sedating therapies: twenty patients for delirium, two patients for delirium and dyspnea, and one patient for dyspnea alone. Fourteen patients were sedated with a continuous subcutaneous infusion of midazolam, seven patients with intermittent doses of benzodiazepines, and two patients with chlorpromazine and lorazepam. The mean midazolam dose was 29 mg per day (median 30 mg; range 15-60 mg per day). Patients were sedated on average 2.5 days before death (median 1 day; range 4 hours-12 days). The mean equivalent daily dose of parenteral morphine in the last week of life showed a significantly higher mean for the sedated group, as compared to the nonsedated group. There was minimal investigation of reversible causes for delirium, none of the patients underwent an opioid rotation, and the opioid dose was seldom decreased. None of the patients received parenteral hydration. The prevalence for the use of sedating treatment is consistent with the range of other literature reports. Nevertheless, the wide disparity in the reported prevalence of these problems, and the ethical concerns raised by the relative frequency of this sedative approach, cannot be ignored.
Are overweight women at increased risk of obesity following pregnancy?	Longitudinal studies suggest that women who already have a high BMI are at greater risk of maternal obesity than their lighter counterparts. The aim of the present study was to investigate this possibility by examining the relationship between reproductive history and maternal BMI in a community of 627 women from South Africa with a high prevalence of obesity. Standardized questionnaires were used to obtain detailed sociodemographic and behavioural information, while maternal weight and height were both measured at the time of the interview. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) showed that maternal age (r2 0.015, P = 0.001), smoking status (r2 0.012, P = 0.036), and social support (r2 0.011, P = 0.006) were all independently associated with maternal BMI. If overweight women were at increased risk of maternal obesity, then the positive relationship between reproductive history and maternal BMI should be enhanced in this relatively obese community, yet the ANCOVA models showed no independent association between gravidity and maternal BMI after controlling for the effects of confounding factors. Although previous longitudinal studies have found a positive association between prepregnant weight and long-term weight gain, this relationship might arise because overweight women gain more weight over a fixed period of time than normal weight women, and therefore they may appear to be at greater risk of pregnancy-related weight gains. Overweight women are at greater risk of weight gain generally, but there is little unequivocal evidence to suggest that they are at any increased risk of maternal obesity, when compared with women of lower BMI.
Family practice in the new South Africa.	Remarkable changes are taking place in the new South Africa. Planned changes in the health care arena present the new, relatively small discipline* of family practice with great opportunity for development and growth. With established generalist roots and recent formal recognition in South Africa, family practice should be well suited for a lead role in the government's efforts to extend health care access to those denied it under apartheid. Whether family practice moves into that role will depend on whether as a discipline it can project a vision of how it can meet the country's health care needs. Close examination of family practice in South Africa shows how the field reflects many of the societal problems of the past and the challenges of the future. With a clear vision of its role in the new South Africa, family practice could overcome these challenges, as well as answer a broader question about the place of family practice outside of the first world setting.
Enamel thickness and the topography of the enamel-dentine junction in South African Plio-Pleistocene hominids with special reference to the Carabelli trait.	This study explores the internal morphology of early hominid teeth using high-resolution computed tomography. Data on Carabelli feature size, enamel thickness, and the topography of the enamel-dentine junction are considered together in order to examine the relationship among these variables in the maxillary molars of gracile and robust australopithecines from South Africa. In particular, one aim is to investigate the degree to which Carabelli feature size influences enamel thickness in the plane of the mesial cusps. The results demonstrate that maxillary molars attributed to Australopithecus africanus from Sterkfontein, Taung and Makapansgat possess larger Carabelli features and thinner enamel along the lingual wall of the protocone than do specimens attributed to Paranthropus robustus from Swartkrans and Kromdraai. Distinct differences in the position of the Carabelli feature at the level of both the enamel-dentine junction and tooth crown surface between early hominid species may help explain the observed disparity in enamel thickness at that region of the tooth crown as well as offer clues to the functional role of Carabelli's cusp. As the size and position of the Carabelli feature affects the linear thickness of enamel at this one particular region of the tooth crown, future comparative studies focusing on taxa that possess moderate to strong development of the Carabelli complex should use the linear thickness of enamel taken close to the protoconal dentine horn or at the maximum projection of the Carabelli's cusp.
The study of child language in South Africa.	This paper describes some of the research into child language that has been conducted in South Africa over the past 20 years. It is written from a clinical perspective and it describes the influence of changing demographic, social, educational and political variables on the study of child language. Specifically, the influence of the multilingual and multicultural nature of the society will be considered. Among issues discussed are the increasing research base on the acquisition of normal language, the adaptation of assessment tools and language in education.
Neoliberalism revised? A critical account of World Bank conceptions of good governance and market friendly intervention.	This article examines recent World Bank reports on the role of the state in the development process, with particular reference to the rise of the East Asian newly industrializing countries and the crisis of "governance" in sub-Saharan Africa. The concepts of market friendly intervention and good governance are critically discussed, and are found to be inadequate as explanations for East Asian "success" and African "failure." The author presents an alternative explanation for the rise of the newly industrializing countries, which draws out some of the implications for the developing world.
Lead poisoning of children in Africa, IV: Exposure to dust lead in primary schools in south-central Durban, South Africa.	Twenty primary schools in three areas (Merebank, Austerville and Bluff) of south-central Durban, South Africa were studied to determine if dust lead loading (microgram/m2) is high enough to constitute a risk to children. Atmospheric lead fallout rates in the schools varied from 9 to 264 micrograms/m2 per day and were higher than the values now being reported in the developed countries. Mean outside dust lead loadings were 425 micrograms/m2 in Merebank, 771 micrograms/m2 in Austerville and 1174 micrograms/m2 in Bluff areas, and 25% of the primary schools were found to have mean outside dust lead loading above 1000 micrograms/m2. Mean dust lead loadings inside classrooms were 2-4 times lower than the outside rates, and showed no significant difference among schools in the three areas. Dust lead loadings were correlated with lead concentrations in dust but not with distance from the highway or with atmospheric lead deposition rates. Exposure to dust lead in classrooms and in the school yard is considered to be an important contributor to blood lead levels in, and hence a potential health hazard to, children in many urban areas of the city.
Genetic evidence suggests that Psoroptes isolates of different phenotypes, hosts and geographic origins are conspecific.	The second internal transcribed spacer of the rRNA gene was characterised in 15 Psoroptes isolates collected from the ears or bodies of rabbits, goats, sheep and cattle originating from four continents. Morphologically, the isolates were differentiated as Psoroptes cuniculi, Psoroptes ovis and Psoroptes cervinus. Genotypically, the isolates were highly homogeneous, except for the existence of different rDNA classes. In view of previous phenotypic data, a possible conspecificity of these species is proposed.
Contraceptive use in South Africa under apartheid.	In this paper, patterns of contraceptive use among black South African women in the late 1980s are examined. Multilevel logit models are used to evaluate the extent to which segregation of the African population into homelands gave rise to uneven patterns of contraceptive use; how this pattern was shaped by variations in family-planning acceptability; and the way in which the system of male labor migration and social and economic inequities across communities affected women's use of contraceptives. Results show that variation in contraceptive use across homeland areas diminished with the addition of community controls for development and migration. Controlling for unobserved heterogeneity indicated that localized conditions could offset the advantages or disadvantages of living in a former homeland.
Using age to predict cervical infection in women presenting with lower genital tract syndrome in Cape Town.	In developing countries without access to laboratory testing, the syndromic management of cervicitis in women with lower genital tract symptoms results in overtreatment. We evaluated the validity of using different age cut-offs to predict the risk of cervical infection in women attending a clinic for sexually transmitted diseases in Cape Town. Specimens from 161 women with lower genital tract symptoms were examined microbiologically for evidence of cervicitis (gonorrhoea and/or chlamydial infection). Women with cervicitis (median 21 years) were significantly younger than those not infected (median 23 years). Retrospective simulation using the age cut-offs (< 45 years (current approach), < 30 years, and < 25 years) to predict cervicitis showed that specificity could be increased (overtreatment reduced) from 17% to 50% if presumptive diagnoses of cervicitis were restricted to women aged under 25 years. Lowering the age cut-off would severely limit sensitivity, however, and as many as 9% and 20%, respectively, of infected women would go untreated if the age cut-offs < 30 and < 25 years were used. The use of a lower age cut-off would therefore serve neither individual nor public health in the presumptive diagnosis and treatment of cervicitis in a high risk population, and would result in a substantially lower detection rate.
Molecular characterisation of a distinct South African cassava infecting geminivirus.	African cassava mosaic virus (ACMV) and East African cassava mosaic virus (EACMV) are whitefly-transmitted geminiviruses (WTGs) which are widespread in cassava in Africa and cause serious yield losses. Recently, a new geminivirus affecting cassava in South Africa (SACMV) has been reported. In this work SACMV was found to have DNA-A and DNA-B components. Comparisons of amino acid sequences of the putative coat protein, and nucleotide sequences of the common region and a 687-bp DNA B fragment of SACMV with other WTGs, showed that SACMV clustered with the Old World subgroup of the Begomovirus genus of geminiviruses. Despite its bipartite nature, SACMV was most closely related to monopartite TYLCVs, but was sufficiently different to justify designating it as a distinct virus. In serological studies, SACMV grouped biologically with EACMV isolates.
The molecular basis of C6 deficiency in the western Cape, South Africa.	Deficiency of the sixth component of human complement (C6) has been reported in a number of families from the western Cape, South Africa. Meningococcal disease is endemic in the Cape and almost all pedigrees of total C6 deficiency (C6Q0) have been ascertained because of recurrent disease. We have sequenced the expressed exons of the C6 gene from selected cases and have found three molecular defects leading to total deficiency: 879delG, which is the common defect in the Cape and hitherto unreported, and 1195delC and 1936delG, which have been previously reported in African-Americans. We also show that the 879delG and 1195delC defects are associated with characteristic C6/C7 region DNA marker haplotypes, although small variations were observed. The 1936delG defect was observed only once in the Cape, but its associated haplotype could be deduced. The data from the haplotypes indicate that these three molecular defects account for the defects in all the 38 unrelated C6Q0 individuals we have studied from the Cape. We have also observed the 879delG defect in two Dutch C6-deficient kindreds, but the 879delG defect in the Cape probably did not come from The Netherlands.
Exposure to air pollution from transitional household fuels in a South African population.	Exposure to high levels of particulate matter is one of the risks associated with a household utilizing low quality coal as primary household energy source. In South Africa more than 20 million people rely on traditional (wood) and transitional (coal and paraffin) fuels to fulfil their basic energy needs--cooking and space heating. Personal exposures to TSP in a coal burning Township in the Vaal Triangle (central South Africa) were determined during the winter and summer of 1991 and 1992. Personal monitoring of TSP were conducted over a 12 hour period. Forty five children, age 8-12, participated. Exposures varied from 294 to 2304 micrograms/m3. The average 12 hour exposure during a summer day (8:30 a.m.-8:30 p.m.) was 662 micrograms/m3 (N = 15) compared to 1333 micrograms/m3 for a winter school day (N = 13). The difference was highly significant (P < 0.0002). The study identified the following risk factors associated with exposure: season (winter higher than summer), gender (boys higher than girls), and day of the week (school days higher: schools are situated in the centre of completely unelectrified areas). Statistical significant difference between personal exposures to TSP were documented between electrified vs unelectrified (utilize coal only) areas. The study confirmed other reports of extremely high exposures to air pollution documented in developing communities across the globe.
Noxious toads and frogs of South Africa.	The major defence mechanism in frogs in via the secretion of toxins from their skin. In humans, intoxication may occur when part of the amphibian integument is ingested, as in the form of herbal medicines. Two groups of South African frogs have skin secretions that are potentially lethal to humans and animals. Toads (Bufo and Schismaderma species), the amphibians with which man and his pets most frequently have contact, secrete potent toxins with cardiac glycoside activity. Topical and systemic intoxication, while seen in humans, remains predominantly a veterinary problem. Intoxication by the red-banded rubber frog, which secretes an unidentified cardiotoxin, is far less common. The probable mechanisms of intoxication and management of a poisoned patient are discussed.
