Pityriasis rubra pilaris in black South Africans.	Eighteen black South African patients with pityriasis rubra pilaris were prospectively studied, nine adults and nine children; patients with the classical types (namely I and III) constituted 75% of the group. Follicular involvement was very prominent, especially in the children with type III, but otherwise the clinical and histological findings did not differ from those reported in white patients. This is the first series of black African patients with this condition to be reported.
Quality of life issues for South Africans with acne vulgaris.	The adverse effects of acne on the psyche have been established in patients from 'first world' countries. There has been no in depth study in predominantly black patients from Africa addressing this issue. This was a prospective cross-sectional study of acne patients attending a dermatology unit in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. A questionnaire was completed and acne graded by the Global Acne Grading scale. Psychological morbidity and quality of life (QOL) were assessed by the General Health Questionnaire and Dermatology Specific Quality of Life Questionnaires, respectively. We found that clinical severity was not associated with patient perception or psychological distress. The QOL measures such as feelings, social activities, performance at work or school, activities of daily living and overall mental health were found to be associated with distress with associated P-values of 0.0002, 0.0168, 0.0032, 0.033 and < 0.0001, respectively. The severity of acne was not associated with psychological distress. Painful and bleeding lesions were associated with distress levels; P = 0.042 and P = 0.019, respectively. In conclusion, South African patients with acne vulgaris suffer significant psychological distress, which affects the quality of their lives.
South African Zulu widows in a time of poverty and social change.	Interviews were carried out with 16 South African Zulu widows. Much of what the widows had to say seemed like what one might hear from widows in economically developed countries, but there were also striking differences. All the widows lived in poverty, and for some their grief seemed much more about the poverty than about the husband's death. Most widows observed a year of traditional ukuzila mourning practices, which made them a threat to others and which is difficult to carry out in the social upheaval of modern South Africa. Widowhood was in some cases a struggle with witchcraft--as cause of the death or as an accusation directed at the widow.
Validation of the U.K. Working Party diagnostic criteria for atopic eczema in a Xhosa-speaking African population.	Reliable diagnostic criteria for eczema are important for epidemiological comparisons. Although the U.K. diagnostic criteria for atopic eczema have performed well in an English language setting, limited data are available from other countries where cultural and linguistic factors may affect their validity.
A common SNP haplotype provides molecular proof of a founder effect of Huntington disease linking two South African populations.	This study involved the detailed investigation of the region surrounding the huntingtin gene in families with a history of Huntington Disease (HD) in South Africa. The primary aim was to investigate the origins of the HD mutation in South Africa by constructing a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) haplotype around the HD gene and to determine how many haplotypes there are in two different South African populations. Haplotypes were created by genotyping six SNPs in a total of 13 HD families--seven Caucasian and six Mixed Ancestry. Of the six Mixed Ancestry families, four shared a common SNP haplotype, which was observed in two Afrikaans-speaking Caucasian HD families thus indicating that a founder effect was present in the South African population. The genotyping of a recently identified highly polymorphic marker close to the HD disease-causing mutation further corroborated the SNP haplotype results. Computational analysis was used to analyze the extent of the common haplotype identified in the study cohort in additional South African HD individuals. The results strongly suggest that the common haplotype extends further into the South African Mixed Ancestry HD population and is predominant in the Mixed Ancestry HD families.
Validation of the Wisconsin Brief Pain Questionnaire in a multilingual South African population.	Assessment of pain intensity and its effect on quality of life is important for proper management of pain, but no validated pain assessment tools that assess pain intensity and the interference pain has on daily life are available in indigenous South African languages. Therefore, the aim of this study was to validate translated versions of the Wisconsin Brief Pain Questionnaire (WBPQ) in South African HIV-positive patients. The WBPQ was translated into three indigenous South African languages, Setswana, isiZulu, and Xitsonga. We interviewed 452 ambulatory HIV-positive patients (327 urban and 125 rural patients) between the ages of 20 and 76 years old. Factor analysis to assess construct validity identified a two-factor structure (pain intensity and pain interference) for the isiZulu (n=132), Xitsonga (n=125), and Setswana (n=66) versions of the WBPQ, whereas a three-factor structure (pain intensity, mood interference, and activity interference) was identified for the English (completed by English second-language speakers, n=129) version of the WBPQ. Cronbach alphas, calculated to assess the reliability of the pain intensity and pain interference scales, were greater than 0.70 for all scales in all four versions of the WBPQ, showing internal consistency within the dimensions. These results provide evidence of validity for an easily administered questionnaire, which assesses pain intensity and pain interference, in three indigenous South African languages, and for English second-language speakers, in a population of South African HIV-positive patients.
Metatarsals in the estimation of stature in South Africans.	To date, only one study has investigated the potential of metatarsals in the estimation of stature for forensic purposes. The morphology of these bones from clinical and paleontological perspectives is well researched in different parts of the world including South Africa. The present study aimed at assessing the usefulness of metatarsals of South Africans in the estimation of stature. For this study, 226 complete skeletons obtained from the Raymond A. Dart Collection were used in the formulation of univariate and multivariate regression equations from six linear measurements of metatarsals. The standard error of estimate for these equations was lower than that obtained for fragments of long bones and other skeletal elements studied so far for stature estimation in South Africans with the exception of intact long bones. Therefore, regression equations presented in this study can provide a reliable estimate of stature in cases where intact long bones are not available for forensic analysis.
Traditional beliefs and colour perception.	This study examined colour preferences and colour associations held by a group of 26 urbanized, educated black South Africans (11 men, 15 women); comparisons are drawn with traditional beliefs and meanings of colours. That black and red were the colours preferred by these subjects corresponds with reports in the literature. In general, the colour associations corresponded to those of Western studies and did not appear to indicate ethnic differences based on traditional beliefs. The particular significance of colour cannot be separated from the context in which it is observed. Limitations of present data are indicated.
'Experts', 'partners' and 'fools': exploring agency in HIV treatment seeking among African migrants in London.	In an attempt to promote patient agency and foster more egalitarian relationships between patients and doctors, discourse concerning health and wellbeing in the UK has increasingly centred around the notion of informed and 'expert' patients who are able to effectively input into the direction and management of their own health care and treatment. While the relationship between a patient and their doctor can play a vital role in influencing the treatment decisions and health-related outcomes of people living with long term illness, little is known about the ways in which people living with HIV actually perceive their relationship with their doctors, nor the implications this may have for the types of treatment they may seek to use and the related information that they share. Drawing on 11 focus group discussions and 20 repeat interviews undertaken in 2008-2009 with HIV-positive adult migrants from Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa living in the UK, this paper argues that patient-doctor relationships can be heavily influenced by the perceived legitimacy of different forms of medical knowledge and treatments and by culturally influenced ideas regarding health, wellbeing and agency. Despite a desire amongst some migrants to use 'traditional' medicines from southern Africa as well as other non-biomedical treatments and therapies, the research found that the perceived lack of legitimacy associated with these treatments in the UK rendered their use a largely clandestine activity. At the same time, many patients made clear distinctions concerning issues affecting their immediate health and factors influencing their more general wellbeing, which in turn, impacted upon the information that they chose to share with, or conceal from, their doctors. Such findings challenge assumptions underpinning policy promoting patient agency and have significant and, in cases, potentially adverse implications for the safety and effective administration and management of HIV treatments in African migrant populations and possibly more generally.
Complete Khoisan and Bantu genomes from southern Africa.	The genetic structure of the indigenous hunter-gatherer peoples of southern Africa, the oldest known lineage of modern human, is important for understanding human diversity. Studies based on mitochondrial and small sets of nuclear markers have shown that these hunter-gatherers, known as Khoisan, San, or Bushmen, are genetically divergent from other humans. However, until now, fully sequenced human genomes have been limited to recently diverged populations. Here we present the complete genome sequences of an indigenous hunter-gatherer from the Kalahari Desert and a Bantu from southern Africa, as well as protein-coding regions from an additional three hunter-gatherers from disparate regions of the Kalahari. We characterize the extent of whole-genome and exome diversity among the five men, reporting 1.3 million novel DNA differences genome-wide, including 13,146 novel amino acid variants. In terms of nucleotide substitutions, the Bushmen seem to be, on average, more different from each other than, for example, a European and an Asian. Observed genomic differences between the hunter-gatherers and others may help to pinpoint genetic adaptations to an agricultural lifestyle. Adding the described variants to current databases will facilitate inclusion of southern Africans in medical research efforts, particularly when family and medical histories can be correlated with genome-wide data.
"Now the African reigns supreme": the rise of African boxing on the Witwatersrand, 1924-1959.	This essay explores the growth of boxing among the African populations on the Witwatersrand region of South Africa between 1924 and 1959. It details how the sport's jump in popularity with Africans paralleled migration to Johannesburg. Africans increasingly saw boxing as an activity and skill conducive with survival in this new environment, and thus the sport grew in popularity, stature, and skill-level amongst this emergent urban population. The essay further explores the various ways that the sport was disseminated and popularized during the era, thus detailing how the sport reached both the African masses and petit-bourgeois educated elite. As their presence in Johannesburg became more and more permanent, boxing came to encompass various meanings and ideals, such as notions of discipline, independence and civility, to these urban populations.
"A man's game": cricket, war and masculinity, South Africa, 1899-1902.	As practitioners of the imperial sport of the Victorian age, cricketers rallied whenever war descended upon England and its colonies. The South African War of 1899-1902 was no different. Adding to existing work on cricket's imperial development within South Africa, this study marks a significant contribution to research on the link between masculinity, war and sport during the Victorian era. A concept emerging from the English public schools of the mid- to late nineteenth century, the masculine ethos of sport and military honour had reached colonial South Africa by the outbreak of war in 1899. In its analysis of cricket and masculinity, this essay examines the events surrounding the war in South Africa and provides an example of the distinct relationship that existed between the military and the masculinity of sport and its organisation during this era.
"Neither cricketers nor ladies": towards a history of women and cricket in South Africa, 1860s-2000s.	There is a dearth of research and writing on women's cricket in South Africa. In an attempt to enhance understanding of the nature and effects of women's involvement in the game of cricket over the past 200 years, this essay offers a chronological account of the sport and the role women played in it. It draws on readings from the international scholarship on women's early involvement in sport, the fragments that have existed to date about women's cricket in South Africa and some newly discovered primary material from the 1950s onwards. The essay aims to provide a historical context and open a window for historians and social analysts into an area few knew existed before. There is now a distinctive history and subculture of cricket with multiple social dimensions for scholars to explore; here I offer some preliminary insights.
Tackling femininity: the heterosexual paradigm and women's soccer in South Africa.	Sport is a social institution that perpetuates gendered ideologies in the wider society through appealing to discourses of the naturalness of men's privilege and domination in society. Heteronormativity regulates the roles, behaviours, appearances and sexualities of, and relationships between and among, women and men. Moreover, heteronormative discourses normalise a particular relationship between sex, gender and sexuality that posits woman/feminine/heterosexual (and man/masculine/heterosexual) as a natural order from which variance is considered a punishable deviance. This paper outlines the effects of heteronormative discourses in the lives of women footballers in South Africa, through drawing on interviews with a wide range of women footballers. The paper shows how heteronormative discourses nurture homophobic attitudes that serve to regulate the appearances and performances of South African women.
Damaged goods: return to sender. A review of the historical medical records of repatriated Chinese miners.	After the Anglo-Boer (South African) War (1899-1902), there was a shortage of unskilled labor on the South African gold mines. Chinese men were imported to make up for the deficit. This article reviews the records of indentured Chinese mine workers examined for repatriation in 1905. The records tell of high proportions of social disorders, respiratory diseases, musculoskeletal disorders, opium addiction, and injury. These reflect the social and physical conditions to which these men were exposed in the mines.
Dental age related tables for children of various ethnic groups in South Africa.	The standard age estimation methods of Moorrees, Fanning & Hunt (1963) and that of Demirjian, Goldstein & Tanner (1973) have been shown by several authors to be inaccurate when applied to their juvenile population. This was similarly found to be true in South African children. Pantomographic radiographs of samples of South African children of White, Coloured, Indian and Black origin were used to develop dental age related tables for these ethnic groups. These dental age estimation tables were tested and are presented.
Testing standard methods of dental age estimation by Moorrees, Fanning and Hunt and Demirjian, Goldstein and Tanner on three South African children samples.	Dental age estimation of juvenile skeletal remains has utilized the methods of Moorrees ,Fanning and Hunt (1963) [MFH] and Demirjian,Goldstein and Tanner (1973) [DGT] for many years with various results. The Demirjian et al method has been tested by several authors on their population groups with varying results.The use of these methods to age the skeletal remains of South African children by the author has not been successful. The aim of this study was to test the accuracy of the dental age estimation methods of MFH and DGT on samples of children of different ethnic groups.The study showed that the MFH method consistently under-estimates the age and the method of Demirjian et al over-estimates theages.
Skin lighteners, Black consumers and Jewish entrepreneurs in South Africa.	This article considers the rise and decline of South Africa's lucrative and controversial skin-lighteners market through examination of the business history of the largest manufacturers, Abraham and Solomon Krok, and their evolving personas as millionaires and philanthropists. Such examination reveals how the country's skin-lighteners trade emerged as part of the broader growth of a black consumer market after the Second World War and how elements of that market became the target of anti-apartheid protests in subsequent decades. It also demonstrates how the Kroks' experiences as second-generation Jewish immigrants shaped their involvement in the trade and how, later, their self-identification as Jewish philanthropists informed their efforts to rehabilitate their reputations following South Africa's 1990 ban on all skin lighteners. Such efforts include the building of Johannesburg's highly acclaimed Apartheid Museum, modelled after the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. This article explores the profound ironies that some South Africans see in the fact that a museum dedicated to commemorating those who suffered under and, ultimately, triumphed against state racism was financed by a family fortune generated through the sale of skin lighteners to black consumers.
Comparative assessment of absolute cardiovascular disease risk characterization from non-laboratory-based risk assessment in South African populations.	All rigorous primary cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention guidelines recommend absolute CVD risk scores to identify high- and low-risk patients, but laboratory testing can be impractical in low- and middle-income countries. The purpose of this study was to compare the ranking performance of a simple, non-laboratory-based risk score to laboratory-based scores in various South African populations.
A food photograph series for identifying portion sizes of culturally specific dishes in rural areas with high incidence of oesophageal cancer.	Rural areas of the Eastern Cape (EC) Province, South Africa have a high incidence of squamous cell oesophageal cancer (OC) and exposure to mycotoxin fumonisin has been associated with increased OC risk. However, to assess exposure to fumonisin in Xhosas--having maize as a staple food--it is necessary to determine the amount of maize consumed per day. A maize-specific food frequency questionnaire (M-FFQ) has recently been developed. This study developed a food photograph (FP) series to improve portion size estimation of maize dishes. Two sets of photographs were developed to be used alongside the validated M-FFQ. The photographs were designed to assist quantification of intakes (portion size photographs) and to facilitate estimation of maize amounts in various combined dishes (ratio photographs) using data from 24 h recalls (n = 159), dishing-up sessions (n = 35), focus group discussions (FGD) (n = 56) and published literature. Five villages in two rural isiXhosa-speaking areas of the EC Province, known to have a high incidence of OC, were randomly selected. Women between the ages of 18-55 years were recruited by snowball sampling and invited to participate. The FP series comprised three portion size photographs (S, M, L) of 21 maize dishes and three ratio photographs of nine combined maize-based dishes. A culturally specific FP series was designed to improve portion size estimation when reporting dietary intake using a newly developed M-FFQ.
Clinical presentation of prostate cancer in black South Africans.	Compared with White Americans, Black American men are at a significant increased risk of presenting with prostate cancer (PCa) and associated mortality, suggesting a link to African-ancestry. However, PCa status within Africa is largely unknown. We address the clinical presentation of PCa within Black South African men.
Bony defects in dried Bantu mandibles.	Forty-three dried South African Bantu mandibles were examined visually and radiographically for the frequencies of occurrence of apical defects, bifurcation involvements, dehiscences, and fenestrations. Statistical evaluation of the data revealed no significant discrepancy between the visual and radiographic findings.
Polymorphism of the 4-hydroxylation of debrisoquine in the San Bushmen of southern Africa.	1. The metabolic oxidation of debrisoquine has been studied in a group of 96 San Bushmen. 2. The amounts of debrisoquine and 4-hydroxy-debrisoquine excreted in 0-8 h urine were measured and the metabolic ratio (% dose as debrisoquine/% dose as 4-hydroxy-debrisoquine) calculated. 3. On the basis of Caucasian criteria, that metabolic ratios greater than 12.6 represent poor metabolizers, 19% of the Bushmen were poor metabolizers in contrast to the 8-10% found in Caucasian studies. 4. Probit plots showed four modes may be present in the data, which may represent at least three isozymes of the relevant enzyme which may also differ from the Caucasian isozymes.
Contrasting patterns of caries profile and dental treatment in pupils of 16-18 years in South African ethnic groups.	Investigations on caries profile and state of teeth treatment were made on 3752 high school pupils of 16-18 years, namely, rural and urban Black, Indian, Colored (Eur-African-Malay) and White pupils. Rural Blacks had a low mean DMFT of about 2, and a caries-free prevalence of 52%. Of the few with affected teeth, 10% were extracted, none filled, and 90% decayed; i.e. restorative dental attention was virtually nil. Among English and Afrikaans pupils attending Government Schools, mean DMFT was about 10, and caries-free prevalence negligible. Of affected teeth, 13% were extracted, 59% filled and 28% decayed. The situations regarding the urban Black, Indian and Colored groups were intermediate. The Jewish pupils, well-circumstanced and attending private school, had a mean DMFT of 6.5, moreover 6% were caries-free. Of affected teeth, 1% had been extracted; 93% were filled, and only 6% remained decayed. Since it transpired that the diets of the three White subgroups, cariogenically, were much the same, the advantageous position of the Jewish pupils was judged to be due primarily to their excellent oral hygiene motivation, particularly their demonstrably regular visits to dentists.
Autonomic neuropathy in African diabetic patients.	To determine the prevalence and extent of autonomic neuropathy amongst Africans with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), we investigated 50 such patients at our clinic. Mean age (+/- 1 s.d.) was 26 +/- 6 years, male:female ratio was equal (25M:25F) and duration of diabetes was 4.0 +/- 3.0 years. A battery of six validated tests of autonomic function was performed, testing both sympathetic and parasympathetic systems. Overall 16 (32%) had evidence of autonomic damage, affecting parasympathetic only in 14, and both sympathetic and parasympathetic in two. Those with autonomic neuropathy had a significantly longer diabetes duration than those without (6.0 +/- 2.8 years versus 3.1 +/- 2.7 years, P < 0.005), but there was no difference in glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1) between the two groups. Autonomic neuropathy was also not significantly associated with peripheral neuropathy or other diabetic complications. Autonomic neuropathy carries a poor prognosis in IDDM and this high prevalence in a group of patients with relatively short diabetes duration gives cause for concern.
Facial soft-tissue thicknesses in the adult male Zulu.	The morphometric method of forensic facial reconstruction rests heavily on the use of facial soft tissue depth measurements. In reconstructing the Negroid face, much use has been made of the tables of soft tissue thickness of American Negroid cadavers. However, the genetic complexities of American blacks are well known. In addition it is felt that measurements made on the living are of more value than those made on the dead. In view of this it was decided to set up a table of norms for facial soft tissue depths of the living Zulu, an African Negroid who has remained relatively free from genetic admixture with other populations. The tightly controlled sample consisted of 55 healthy male Zulus, aged 20 to 35. Tissue depths at established landmarks were measured from lateral and oblique cephalometric radiographs. These were then combined with ultrasonic readings at other landmarks on the subject's face to yield a comprehensive set of tissue depth data. This paper presents a set of average facial soft tissue depth measurements from the Zulu face that results in the development of a new profile. It also provides a method for linking two systems of measurement.
