The EGF receptor-sox2-EGF receptor feedback loop positively regulates the self-renewal of neural precursor cells.	The transcriptional factor Sox2 and epidermal growth factor receptor (Egfr)-mediated signaling are both required for self-renewal of neural precursor cells (NPCs). However, the mechanism by which these factors coordinately regulate this process is largely unknown. Here we show that Egfr-mediated signaling promotes Sox2 expression, which in turn binds to the Egfr promoter and directly upregulates Egfr expression. Knockdown of Sox2 by RNA interference downregulates Egfr expression and attenuates colony formation of NPCs, whereas overexpression of Sox2 elevates Egfr expression and promotes NPC self-renewal. Moreover, the effect of Sox2 on NPC self-renewal is completely inhibited by AG1478, a specific inhibitor for Egfr; it is also inhibited by LY294002 and U0126, selective antagonists for phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk1/2), respectively. Collectively, we conclude that NPC self-renewal is enhanced through a novel cellular feedback loop with mutual regulation of Egfr and Sox2.
Pluripotent stem cell protein Sox2 confers sensitivity to LSD1 inhibition in cancer cells.	Gene amplification of Sox2 at 3q26.33 is a common event in squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) of the lung and esophagus, as well as several other cancers. Here, we show that the expression of LSD1/KDM1 histone demethylase is significantly elevated in Sox2-expressing lung SCCs. LSD1-specific inhibitors selectively impair the growth of Sox2-expressing lung SCCs, but not that of Sox2-negative cells. Sox2 expression is associated with sensitivity to LSD1 inhibition in lung, breast, ovarian, and other carcinoma cells. Inactivation of LSD1 reduces Sox2 expression, promotes G1 cell-cycle arrest, and induces genes for differentiation by selectively modulating the methylation states of histone H3 at lysines 4 (H3K4) and 9 (H3K9). Reduction of Sox2 further suppresses Sox2-dependent lineage-survival oncogenic potential, elevates trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27) and enhances growth arrest and cellular differentiation. Our studies suggest that LSD1 serves as a selective epigenetic target for therapy in Sox2-expressing cancers. 
