A common single nucleotide polymorphism in the CD14 promoter decreases the affinity of Sp protein binding and enhances transcriptional activity.	CD14 is a pattern recognition receptor that plays a central role in innate immunity through recognition of bacterial lipoglycans, primarily LPS. Recently, our group has identified a common single nucleotide polymorphism, -159C-->T, in the CD14 proximal promoter. Homozygous carriers of the T allele have a significant increase in soluble CD14, but a decreased total serum IgE. This epidemiologic evidence led us to investigate the molecular basis for the effects of CD14/-159C-->T on CD14 regulation in monocytes and hepatocytes, the two major cell types known to express this gene in vivo. EMSA analysis showed that the T allele results in decreased affinity of DNA/protein interactions at a GC box that contains a binding site for Sp1, Sp2, and Sp3 transcription factors. In reporter assays, the transcriptional activity of the T allele was increased in monocytic Mono Mac 6 cells, which express low levels of Sp3, a member of the Sp family with inhibitory potential relative to activating Sp1 and Sp2. By contrast, both alleles were transcribed equivalently in Sp3-rich hepatocytic HepG2 cells. Our data indicate that the interplay between CD14 promoter affinity and the [Sp3]:[Sp1 + Sp2] ratio plays a critical mechanistic role in regulating transcription of the two CD14 alleles. Variation in a key gene of innate immunity may be important for the pathogenesis of allergy and inflammatory disease through gene-by-gene and/or gene-by-environment interactions.
Sp2 DNA binding activity and trans-activation are negatively regulated in mammalian cells.	Previous studies have indicated that Sp2 binds poorly to GC-rich sequences bound by Sp1 and Sp3, and further functional analyses of Sp2 have been limited. To study Sp2-mediated transcription, we employed a PCR-based protocol to determine the Sp2 consensus DNA-binding sequence (5'-GGGCGGGAC-3') and performed kinetic experiments to show that Sp2 binds this consensus sequence with high affinity (225 pm) in vitro. To determine the functional consequence of Sp2 interaction with this sequence in vivo, we transformed well characterized Sp-binding sites within the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) promoter to consensus Sp2-binding sites. Incorporation of Sp2-binding sites within the DHFR promoter increased Sp2-mediated trans-activation in transient co-transfection experiments but also revealed Sp2 to be a relatively weak trans-activator with little or no capacity for additive or synergistic trans-activation. Using chimeric molecules prepared with portions of Sp1 and Sp2 and the human prostate-specific antigen promoter, we show that Sp2 DNA binding activity and trans-activation are negatively regulated in mammalian cells. Taken together, our data indicate that Sp2 is functionally distinct relative to other Sp family members and suggest that Sp2 may play a unique role in cell physiology.
