Structure of the human 5-HT7 receptor gene and characterization of its promoter region.	The molecular mechanism regulating serotonin 5-HT(7) receptor expression is still unclear. In this study we provide evidence that transcription of the 5-HT(7) gene is at least partly regulated by Sp1 and Sp3. We isolated and sequenced >3000 bp of the upstream sequences and identified by RACE a number of transcriptional initiation sites over a region of 300 bp upstream of the coding region. This region has a high GC content, but contains no obvious TATA or a CAAT box. Besides a Sp1/Sp3 consensus motif, regulatory elements for AP2, Egr-1 and MAZ are also present. Transient transfection assays using deletion variants indicated that the GC-rich region is essential for full promoter activity. The role of Sp1 in this was confirmed by transient overexpression of both wild type Sp1 or dominant-negative forms. By gel shift and supershift analyses, targeting the Sp1 consensus sequence and the GC-rich region just upstream of the transcription initiation sites, binding of Sp1 and Sp3 was demonstrated. Both in vitro as well as in vivo experiments, using a cell line which endogenously expresses the 5-HT(7) receptor, indicated that mithramycin A, an inhibitor of Sp1/3 transcription factor binding, was able to inhibit 5-HT(7) promoter activity. Taken together these results support the essential role of Sp factors in regulating 5-HT(7) promoter activity.
Sp1 and Sp3 regulate basal transcription of the survivin gene.	Survivin, a unique member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein family, is overexpressed in many cancers and considered to play an important role in oncogenesis. In this study, we cloned and identified the proximal 269 bp promoter of survivin gene, which exhibited strong promoter activity in HeLa cells. The TATA-less, GC-rich promoter contains 7 putative binding sites for Sp1, two of which (one at position -148 to -153, the other at position -127 to -140) are essential in regulating basal survivin promoter activity. Not only Sp1 but also Sp3 can activate the survivin promoter, which were proven by EMSA, blocking Sp1 or Sp3 using RNAi or mithramycin treatment of HeLa cells, and overexpression of Sp1 or Sp3. Our results collectively suggest that Sp1 cooperates with Sp3 to regulate survivin promoter activity.
Sp1 and Sp3 regulate glucokinase gene transcription in the liver of gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata).	To better understand the transcriptional machinery that governs glucokinase (GCK) expression, we have cloned and characterized the proximal promoter region of GCK from gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata). The 5'-flanking region of GCK was isolated by chromosome walking. SMART RACE-PCR allowed us to locate the transcription start site 98 bp (bp) upstream from the translational start. Transfection analysis in HepG2 cells revealed the presence of a functional promoter in the 1397 bp 5'-flanking isolated fragment (positions -1321 to +76 relative to the transcription start site). Sequential 5'-deletion analysis indicated a core functional promoter for basal transcription within the 288 bp upstream from the transcription start site. Transient transfection experiments performed in HepG2 cells and electrophoretic mobility shift assays denoted that Sp1 binds and transactivates GCK promoter, whereas Sp3 repressed Sp1-mediated activation of GCK by competing for the same binding site. Mutations in the Sp binding site completely abolished the enhancing effect of Sp1. Treatment with insulin stimulated GCK expression, and increased Sp1 levels in S. aurata liver. We propose a new mechanism that involves Sp1 and Sp3 to mediate insulin activation of GCK transcription.
Differential regulation of sense and antisense promoter activity at the Csf1R locus in B cells by the transcription factor PAX5.	The transcription factor PAX5 is essential for the activation of B-cell-specific genes and for the silencing of myeloid-specific genes. We previously determined the molecular mechanism by which PAX5 silences the myeloid-specific colony-stimulating-factor-receptor (Csf1R) gene and showed that PAX5 directly binds to the Csf1r promoter as well as to an intronic enhancer that generates an antisense transcript in B cells. Here we examine the role of PAX5 in the regulation of sense and antisense transcription in B cells.
Transcription factors Sp1 and Sp3 regulate expression of human ABCG2 gene and chemoresistance phenotype.	ABCG2 is a member of the ATP binding cassette (ABC) transmembrane proteins that plays an important role in stem cell biology and drug resistance of cancer cells. In this study, we investigated how expression of human ABCG2 gene is regulated in lung cancer A549 cells. Binding of Sp1 and Sp3 transcription factors to the ABCG2 promoter in vitro and in vivo was elucidated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. The ABCG2 promoter activity was impaired when Sp1 sites were mutated but was enhanced by overexpression of Sp1 or Sp3 proteins. Knockdown of Sp1 or Sp3 expression by short interfering RNA significantly decreased the expression of ABCG2 mRNA and protein, resulting in attenuated formation of the side population in A549 cells. In addition, Sp1 inhibition in vivo by mithramycin A suppressed the percentage of the side population fraction and sphere forming activities of A549 cells. Moreover, inhibiting Sp1- or Sp3-dependent ABCG2 expression caused chemosensitization to the anticancer drug cisplatin. Collectively, our results demonstrate that Sp1 and Sp3 transcription factors are the primary determinants for activating basal transcription of the ABCG2 gene and play an important role in maintaining the side population phenotype of lung cancer cells. 
Transcriptional repression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) by the protein arginine methyltransferase PRMT1.	Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIF-1 and HIF-2) are essential mediators for the adaptive transcriptional response of cells and tissues to low-oxygen conditions. Under hypoxia or when cells are treated with various nonhypoxic stimuli, the active HIF-α subunits are mainly regulated through increased protein stabilization. For HIF-1α, it is clear that further transcriptional, translational, and posttranslational regulations are important for complete HIF-1 activity. Novel evidence links hypoxia and HIF-1 to arginine methylation, an important protein modification. These studies suggest that arginine methyltransferases may be important for hypoxic responses. Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1), the predominant arginine methyltransferase, can act as a transcriptional activator or repressor by modifying a diverse set of substrates. In this work, we show that PRMT1 is a repressor of both HIF-1 and HIF-2. The cellular depletion of PRMT1 by small interference RNA targeting leads to increased HIF transcriptional activity. This activation is the result of enhanced HIF-α subunit transcription, which allows increased HIF-α subunit availability. We provide evidence that PRMT1-dependent HIF-1α regulation is mediated through the activities of both specificity protein 1 (Sp1) and Sp3, two transcription factors known to control HIF-1α expression. This study therefore identifies PRMT1 as a novel regulator of HIF-1- and HIF-2-mediated responses. 
