The relationship between space sickness and preflight diet.	The nine astronauts who flew three Skylab missions during 1973 and 1974 were on carefully planned diets.  Each astronaut selected his preferences from a list of approximately 70 food items, from which dietitians developed a rotating sequence of six daily menus.  In addition to strict control of the inflight diet, each crewman consumed his planned diet for 21 days preflight and for 18 days postflight.  While the amount consumed at each particular meal was largely discretionary, all deviations from the planned meals (which were few) were fully documented.  Diets were controlled to provide adequate calcium, phosphorus, and protein because of bone and muscle losses observed on previous flights.  Each day's menu had a similar elemental composition; if any particular item was not consumed, supplements in the form of capsules or tablets were prescribed the next day to make up for the shortfall.  However, the dieticians did not so carefully control the relative proportions of carbohydrate, fat, and protein (though meticulous records were kept), which were instead selected somewhat incidentally as menus were constructed around each astronaut's food preferences.  There are several possible physiologic determinants for food preferences and the regulation of dietary macro-nutrients.  Monozygotic twins chose more similar intakes of total energy, protein, fat, and carbohydrate than did dizygotic twins, suggesting a genetic component of dietary regulation.  The biosynthesis of neurotransmitters is directly influenced by the availability of their precursor nutrients, such as tryptophan for serotonin and choline for acetylcholine.  Diet affects behavior, and it has been suggested that dietary self-selection by rats is regulated by effects of the diet on brain neurotransmitters.  Some preflight variables relating to fluid, electrolyte and cardiovascular status, and to environmental exposures, have previously been found to have significant relationships to space sickness.  The purpose of this study was to determine if diet could be another factor contributing to space sickness, since diet determines so much of physiology and behavior.
Nausogenic properties of various dynamic and static force environments.	Motion sickness can occur when an accelerating force acting on the human body repeatedly changes amplitude and direction or both. It also can occur without any motion after transfer into a constant force field significantly different from Earth-gravity. Dynamic and static causes of motion sickness can be distinguished accordingly. Space sickness, too, has dynamic as well as static aspects. Dynamic space sickness might depend on increased bilateral differential sensitivity of the peripheral and central vestibular apparatus, whereas static space sickness may be caused by erroneous compensation of bilaterial asymmetries of the otolith-system in the microgravity environment. Experiments in airplanes, cars and on a vestibular sled have shown that the susceptibility to motion sickness is highest for changes of acceleration in the negative X-axis (as compared to the other axes) of the body. During reciprocating linear accelerations on the vestibular sled, standstill periods of movement and the direction of movement cannot correctly be indicated, because the peripheral vestibular apparatus lacks true motion detectors.
U.S. manned space flight: the first twenty years, a biomedical status report.	In the last 20 years, the biomedical problems facing man in space have been brought into sharper focus. Space motion sickness is presently our most serious problem. Its etiology remains obscure, but the "sensory conflict" theory appears most plausible. No valid predictive tests of susceptibility exist and presently we must rely on medication for prevention or mitigation of symptoms. Adaptation/biofeedback techniques may prove useful. Cardiovascular "deconditioning" may be effectively attenuated by use of anti-g suits or plasma expanding techniques. Recent bedrest simulation studies would seem to indicate that concerns about chronically elevated central venous pressure during space flight are unfounded. The loss of red cell mass in space flight appears to be self-limited, independent of mission duration, and not of clinical concern, based on recent Soviet experiences. And finally, clodronate, a new diphosphonate effective in preventing hypercalciuria and negative calcium balance in normal human bedrested subjects, may prove effective in preventing or lessening skeletal mineral loss in space.
Motion sickness susceptibility during rotation at 30 rpm in free-fall parabolic flight.	Free fall per se whether in parabolic or orbital flight may be regarded as a "partial" motion environment with respect to eliciting motion sickness, requiring an additional component to render this environment "complete" or stressful. Parabolic flight in toto falls in the category of a "complete" motion environment in that some persons became motion sick with head fixed and eyes closed. In the present experiment we selected subjects who were symptom free or nearly symptom free in the KC-135 with head fixed. All tests were conducted with the subject rotating at 30 rpm in a rotating litter chair, and comparisons were made between head-fixed and head-moving conditions (right-left) in the free-fall phase of parabolic flight and under simulated free-fall phases in the laboratory. With head fixed most subjects were insusceptible; with head moving left-right susceptibility was slightly higher in the laboratory than aloft. An additional comparison was made correlating susceptibility in the free-fall phases of parabolic flight with susceptibility to experimental motion sickness in Skylab. In both situations cross-coupled angular accelerations were generated by executing head and body movements out of the plane of rotation. In parabolic flight 9 of 15 subjects reached an endpoint just short of frank motion sickness. In the Skylab workshop all eight of the astronauts tested were symptom free at the end of the test. The explanation for the difference in susceptibility rests in two factors: (1) Basic susceptibility in free fall is lower than on the ground, and (2) in Skylab the astronauts who needed to adapt had achieved this goal prior to the first test on Mission-Day 8.
Centrifugation as a countermeasure during actual and simulated microgravity: a review.	This paper summarizes what has been learned from studies of the effects of artificial gravity generated by centrifugation in actual and simulated weightless conditions. The experience of artificial gravity during actual space flight in animals and humans are discussed. Studies using intermittent centrifugation during bed rest and water immersion, as a way to maintain orthostatic tolerance and exercise capacity, are reviewed; their results indicate that intermittent centrifugation is a potential countermeasure for maintaining the integrity of these physiological functions in extended space missions. These results can help set guidelines for future experiments aimed at validating the regimes of centrifugation as a countermeasure for space missions. Current and future research projects using artificial gravity conditions in humans are discussed.
