Habitat selection, acoustic adaptation, and the evolution of reproductive isolation.	We examined barriers to gene flow in a hybrid zone of two subspecies of the song sparrow (Melospiza melodia). We focused on how mating signals and mate choice changed along an environmental gradient and gathered data on the morphology, genetics, ecology, and behavior across the zone. Melospiza m. heermanni of the Pacific slope of California and M. m. fallax of the Sonoran Desert, each distinct in plumage, meet across a steep environmental gradient in southeastern California. Although both subspecies occur in riparian habitat, their occupied habitat differs structurally, the former subspecies occurring in areas with denser understory and greater vertical heterogeneity. Song elements varied concomitantly, as predicted by the acoustic adaptation hypothesis, with heermanni having lower-pitched, more widely spaced elements. Females of both subspecies responded more strongly to homotypic than heterotypic song, and addition of subspecific plumage cues increased response if song was homotypic but not if heterotypic. Females thus assess multiple male traits, weighing song more heavily. Males of both subspecies showed significantly greater agonistic response to homotypic song. Microsatellite variation is correlated significantly with plumage variation across the zone and suggests limited gene flow between the taxa. The association of song and plumage with the environment and in turn with assortative mating suggests a means by which reproductive isolation may evolve or be maintained in hybrid zones.
Intrinsic parent-offspring correlation in inbreeding level in a song sparrow (Melospiza melodia) population open to immigration.	The extent to which offspring resemble their parents in genotype and phenotype underpins patterns of genetic and phenotypic variation, selection, and evolution in natural populations. Genetic and phenotypic resemblance can clearly result from additive genetic variance and can be shaped by nongenetic parental and common environmental influences. In contrast, there is no straightforward expectation that inbreeding coefficient (f), a nonadditive component of genetic "quality," should be correlated across parents and offspring in sexually reproducing species or consequently cause resemblance across generations. Here, we report a significant parent f-offspring f correlation within a free-living pedigreed population of song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) on Mandarte Island, Canada. Across 15 years, relatively inbred parents had relatively inbred offspring on average. We show that rather than requiring nonrandom pairing with respect to f and kinship, parent f-offspring f correlations arise as an intrinsic consequence of random pairing within Mandarte's open population, where immigrants interbreed with Mandarte-hatched natives. However, on Mandarte, parent f-offspring f correlations may have been exacerbated because relatively inbred individuals paired with more closely related mates than expected by chance. Such intrinsic parent f-offspring f correlations have major implications for the understanding of resemblance, selection, and evolution in natural populations. 
Comprehensive paternity assignment: genotype, spatial location and social status in song sparrows, Melospiza Melodia.	Comprehensive, accurate paternity assignment is critical to answering numerous questions in evolutionary ecology. Yet, most studies of species with extra-pair paternity (EPP) fail to assign sires to all offspring. Common limitations include incomplete and biased sampling of offspring and males, particularly with respect to male location and social status, potentially biasing estimated patterns of paternity. Studies that achieve comprehensive sampling and paternity assignment are therefore required. Accordingly, we genotyped virtually all males and >99% of 6-day-old offspring over 16 years in a song sparrow (Melospiza melodia) population and used three complementary statistical methodologies to attempt complete paternity assignment for all 2207 offspring. Assignments were highly consistent across maximum likelihood methods that used solely genotype data, and heuristic and integrated Bayesian analyses that included data describing individual locations. Sires were assigned to >99% of all genotyped offspring with ≥95% confidence, revealing an EPP rate of c. 28%. Extra-pair sires primarily occupied territories neighbouring their extra-pair offspring; spatial location was therefore highly informative for paternity assignment. EPP was biased towards paired territorial males, although unpaired territorial and floater males sired c. 13% of extra-pair offspring. Failing to sample and include unpaired males as candidate sires would therefore substantially reduce assignment rates. These analyses demonstrate the integration of genetic and ecological information to achieve comprehensive paternity assignment and direct biological insight, illustrate the potential biases that common forms of incomplete sampling could have on estimated patterns of EPP, and provide an essential basis for understanding the evolutionary causes and consequences of EPP.
There is no correlation between glucocorticoid receptor mRNA expression and protein binding in the brains of house sparrows (Passer domesticus).	The stress response represents an animal's attempt to cope with a noxious stimulus through a rapid release of corticosterone or cortisol (CORT) into the bloodstream, resulting in a suite of physiological and behavioral changes. These changes are mediated in large part through CORT's binding to two different intracellular receptors, the high-affinity mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and the lower-affinity glucocorticoid receptor (GR). We tested the hypothesis that GR and MR mRNA expression would correlate with functional protein expression in neuronal tissue of wild-caught house sparrows (Passer domesticus). To test this hypothesis, we performed a parallel procedure in which protein concentrations were quantified in one half of house sparrow brains (n=16) using radioligand binding assays, and mRNA levels were quantified in the other brain half using reverse-transcriptase quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Two reference genes, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and TATA-box binding protein (TBP), were used for relative quantification of GR and MR mRNA. Quantifications showed that these two reference genes were not correlated with each other. Furthermore, there was no correlation between mRNA and protein levels for GR or MR using either reference gene, suggesting that regulation of mRNA and protein levels for MR and GR is not tightly linked. This study provides insight into the importance of regulatory steps between mRNA expression and the creation and stability of a functional protein. The overall conclusion is that mRNA expression cannot be used as a proxy for GR or MR binding in house sparrows. 
Females tend to prefer genetically similar mates in an island population of house sparrows.	It is often proposed that females should select genetically dissimilar mates to maximize offspring genetic diversity and avoid inbreeding. Several recent studies have provided mixed evidence, however, and in some instances females seem to prefer genetically similar males. A preference for genetically similar mates can be adaptive if outbreeding depression is more harmful than inbreeding depression or if females gain inclusive fitness benefits by mating with close kin. Here, we investigated genetic compatibility and mating patterns in an insular population of house sparrow (Passer domesticus), over a three-year period, using 12 microsatellite markers and one major histocompability complex (MHC) class I gene. Given the small population size and the distance from the mainland, we expected a reduced gene flow in this insular population and we predicted that females would show mating preferences for genetically dissimilar mates.
