Seasonal modulation of sickness behavior in free-living northwestern song sparrows (Melospiza melodia morphna).	A variety of vertebrate species modulate immune function on a seasonal basis to cope with seasonal energy deficits and competing life-history demands, such as reproduction. Most studies to date have focused upon seasonal variation of cellular and humoral immunity, while neglecting behavioral responses to infection. These behavioral strategies are collectively termed sickness behaviors and are hypothesized to divert energy away from normal activities to combat and overcome infection. Sickness behavior can be triggered experimentally by injecting bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In this study, we provide the first evidence for seasonal modulation of sickness behavior in a free-living animal. Male song sparrows of western Washington state (Melospiza melodia morphna) are sedentary and territorial year round, except for a brief time during molt. Treatment with LPS decreased territorial aggressive behavior of males in the winter (nonbreeding), but not in the spring (breeding). Subjects were recaptured approx. 25 h after treatment. Recaptured LPS males in the winter lost more body mass than saline-injected controls while LPS males in the spring did not. These data indicate that birds in breeding condition were relatively insensitive to the effects of LPS. On a proximate level, suppression of sickness behavior during breeding is likely mediated by seasonal differences in energy allocation, as wintering sparrows were significantly heavier and had larger subcutaneous fat reserves and lower baseline corticosterone levels than breeding birds. Ultimately, suppression of sickness behavior may represent an allocation strategy to balance current reproductive opportunities with the life-history costs of self-defense.
Expression and localization of an aquaporin-1 homologue in the avian kidney and lower intestinal tract.	In birds, the kidneys and lower intestine function in osmoregulation. A 271-amino acid homologue to aquaporin-1 (AQP-1) was isolated from the kidneys, cecae, proximal and distal rectum, and coprodeum of the lower intestine in the house sparrow (Passer domesticus). This protein has six transmembrane domains connected by two cytoplasmic loops and three extracellular loops. It exhibits 94%, 88%, and 78% homology to AQP-1 sequences of chicken, human and toad, respectively. Many of the highly conserved amino acids that are characteristic of AQP-1 are found in the sparrow sequence. RT-PCR was performed and the presence of AQP-1 mRNA was detected in the kidney and all four regions of the lower intestine. Immunoblots of total protein identified a 28-kDa non-glycosylated AQP-1 band and a 56-kDa glycosylated AQP-1 band in the kidney and all four regions of the lower intestine. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated the presence of the AQP-1 protein within both the renal cortex and medulla. In the lower intestine, the protein was present in the proximal rectum, distal rectum, and in the coprodeum. As AQP-1 functions to allow water movement across mammalian cell membranes, its presence in water-permeable cells in a bird suggests it may have a similar function.
Effects of repeated, short-term, corticosterone administration on the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis of the white-crowned sparrow (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii).	Our knowledge of glucocorticoid actions in vertebrates comes primarily from laboratory studies, which are often conducted with little consideration of how animals experience changes in glucocorticoid secretion in natural contexts. Typically, free-living animals are exposed to acute perturbations of the environment, ranging from a few minutes to a few hours duration, with varying frequency. The cumulative effects of these perturbations and their resultant glucocorticoid surges are not well known. To investigate the possible cumulative effects of repeated, acute surges in glucocorticoid secretion, we developed an ecologically relevant methodology for treating captive white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) with corticosterone (CORT). We dissolved CORT in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) and administered this cocktail directly on the skin. Treatments resulted in small elevations of CORT within the physiological range. In our first experiment at the end of the breeding life stage, birds were treated three times a day (3x). Two control groups were used: one treated with DMSO 3x and one not handled nor treated. In a second study at the beginning of the breeding life stage, one group was treated once a day and a second group 3x. A DMSO-control group was used for each dosage regime. Repeated, acute administration of CORT resulted in higher baseline CORT levels and a down-regulation of the endogenous adrenocortical response to a standardized stress. Maximum CORT and plasma corticosterone binding globulin levels increased in response to the CORT treatments only at the end of the breeding season. CORT treatment did not alter adrenal size, adrenal response to ACTH, or hepatic CORT metabolism.
Tracking the oxidative kinetics of carbohydrates, amino acids and fatty acids in the house sparrow using exhaled 13CO2.	Clinicians commonly measure the (13)CO(2) in exhaled breath samples following administration of a metabolic tracer (breath testing) to diagnose certain infections and metabolic disorders. We believe that breath testing can become a powerful tool to investigate novel questions about the influence of ecological and physiological factors on the oxidative fates of exogenous nutrients. Here we examined several predictions regarding the oxidative kinetics of specific carbohydrates, amino acids and fatty acids in a dietary generalist, the house sparrow (Passer domesticus). After administering postprandial birds with 20 mg of one of seven (13)C-labeled tracers, we measured rates of (13)CO(2) production every 15 min over 2 h. We found that sparrows oxidized exogenous amino acids far more rapidly than carbohydrates or fatty acids, and that different tracers belonging to the same class of physiological fuels had unique oxidative kinetics. Glycine had a mean maximum rate of oxidation (2021 nmol min(-1)) that was significantly higher than that of leucine (351 nmol min(-1)), supporting our prediction that nonessential amino acids are oxidized more rapidly than essential amino acids. Exogenous glucose and fructose were oxidized to a similar extent (5.9% of dose), but the time required to reach maximum rates of oxidation was longer for fructose. The maximum rates of oxidation were significantly higher when exogenous glucose was administered as an aqueous solution (122 nmol min(-1)), rather than as an oil suspension (93 nmol min(-1)), supporting our prediction that exogenous lipids negatively influence rates of exogenous glucose oxidation. Dietary fatty acids had the lowest maximum rates of oxidation (2-6 nmol min(-1)), and differed significantly in the extent to which each was oxidized, with 0.73%, 0.63% and 0.21% of palmitic, oleic and stearic acid tracers oxidized, respectively.
Selective loss of glycogen synthase kinase-3α in birds reveals distinct roles for GSK-3 isozymes in tau phosphorylation.	Mammalian glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a critical regulator in neuronal signaling, cognition, and behavior, exists as two isozymes GSK-3α and GSK-3β. Their distinct biological functions remains largely unknown. Here, we examined the evolutionary significance of each of these isozymes. Surprisingly, we found that unlike other vertebrates that harbor both GSK-3 genes, the GSK-3α gene is missing in birds. GSK-3-mediated tau phosphorylation was significantly lower in adult bird brains than in mouse brains, a phenomenon that was reproduced in GSK-3α knockout mouse brains. Tau phosphorylation was detected in brains from bird embryos suggesting that GSK-3 isozymes play distinct roles in tau phosphorylation during development. Birds are natural GSK-3α knockout organisms and may serve as a novel model to study the distinct functions of GSK-3 isozymes.
Mitochondrial function in sparrow pectoralis muscle.	Flying birds couple a high daily energy turnover with double-digit millimolar blood glucose concentrations and insulin resistance. Unlike mammalian muscle, flight muscle predominantly relies on lipid oxidation during locomotion at high fractions of aerobic capacity, and birds outlive mammals of similar body mass by a factor of three or more. Despite these intriguing functional differences, few data are available comparing fuel oxidation and free radical production in avian and mammalian skeletal muscle mitochondria. Thus we isolated mitochondria from English sparrow pectoralis and rat mixed hindlimb muscles. Maximal O(2) consumption and net H(2)O(2) release were measured in the presence of several oxidative substrate combinations. Additionally, NAD- and FAD-linked electron transport chain (ETC) capacity was examined in sonicated mitochondria. Sparrow mitochondria oxidized palmitoyl-l-carnitine 1.9-fold faster than rat mitochondria and could not oxidize glycerol-3-phosphate, while both species oxidized pyruvate, glutamate and malate-aspartate shuttle substrates at similar rates. Net H(2)O(2) release was not significantly different between species and was highest when glycolytic substrates were oxidized. Sonicated sparrow mitochondria oxidized NADH and succinate over 1.8 times faster than rat mitochondria. The high ETC catalytic potential relative to matrix substrate dehydrogenases in sparrow mitochondria suggests a lower matrix redox potential is necessary to drive a given O(2) consumption rate. This may contribute to preferential reliance on lipid oxidation, which may result in lower in vivo reactive oxygen species production in birds compared with mammals.
HPA axis regulation, survival, and reproduction in free-living sparrows: Functional relationships or developmental correlations?	A growing body of theoretical and empirical work has addressed the relationship between hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function and fitness. For example, the corticosterone (CORT)-fitness and CORT-condition hypotheses predict that baseline and/or stress-induced levels of glucocorticoids should relate to fitness, and recent empirical studies have reported relationships between HPA function and fitness-related sexually selected traits. Here we introduce a framework for evaluating whether such relationships reflect functional relationships or developmental correlations. We then address this framework using data from a free-living population of song sparrows (Melospiza melodia). In two independent studies we have found that song complexity (a sexually selected trait) is correlated with stress reactivity: males with more complex vocal repertoires show reduced CORT response to standardized restraint stress. This pattern likely results from the early life environment concurrently affecting development of both song and the HPA axis. Suppression of CORT by dexamethasone was also correlated to measures of body condition and immune function, and females paired to males with higher stress-induced levels of CORT initiated egg-laying later. Finally, stress reactivity predicted overwinter survival in one year, although not in another. Thus, the relationship between HPA axis function and fitness likely varies temporally and by context. Some fitness-related traits may be functionally related to HPA regulation, but many others may be related through developmental correlation. 
