Development of stress reactivity in white-crowned sparrow nestlings: total corticosterone response increases with age, while free corticosterone response remains low.	Activation of the adrenocortical response to stress during development can have fundamental consequences over the lifetime of the organism; as such, many organisms are less responsive to stress during critical developmental periods. In this study, we evaluated stress reactivity in nestling white-crowned sparrows, examining corticosterone and binding globulin levels in response to both restraint stress and ACTH challenge. Restraint stress induced a significant corticosterone response in both 4 to 6- and 7 to 9-day-old nestlings, but not in the youngest group (1-3 days); this non-significant increase in corticosterone in the youngest birds resembles the mammalian hyporesponsive period, wherein young animals are resistant to most stressors. Binding globulin levels appear to extend this period of low reactivity: when free corticosterone levels were calculated, only the oldest age group (7-9 day) showed a significant response to restraint. ACTH challenge data revealed that all ages of white-crowned sparrow nestlings responded to exogenous ACTH treatment with significant elevation of corticosterone, although early-stage nestlings did not reach adult levels of response.
Evaluating the use of house sparrow nestlings as sentinels for West Nile virus in Saskatchewan.	This study evaluated the use of house sparrow (Passer domesticus) nestlings as sentinels of West Nile virus (WNV) in the prairie grasslands of Saskatchewan. In the summer of 2006, 600 house sparrow nestlings were collected and pooled tissues tested by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. All tested negative for WNV. During the same period, no WNV was detected by mosquito surveillance in the study area and 15 WNV-infected pools were collected from the nearby city of Estevan. Six percent of avian carcasses collected from Regina, a city 100 km from the study area in the same ecozone, were infected with WNV. In 2007, 200 house sparrow nestlings were collected and 4 tested positive for WNV, a prevalence of 2%. Ninety-seven house sparrow eggs were also collected and WNV antibodies were measured in the yolk. Seven eggs had measurable titers, a prevalence of 7.2%. Combined WNV surveillance showed high levels of WNV transmission in 2007; 112 WNV-infected mosquito pools were collected from nearby cities of Estevan and Weyburn, and the proportion of WNV infected avian carcasses from Regina was 78%. There were 1456 human cases of WNV in Saskatchewan in 2007, compared to 19 cases in 2006. The study concluded that house sparrow nestlings are not useful as an early warning of WNV circulation, or as a measure of the intensity of WNV activity in the prairie grasslands. Also, the study determined that maternally derived antibody did not have a significant limiting effect on WNV transmission to house sparrow nestlings in 2007, a year of epidemic WNV activity in the study area.
Song complexity, song rate, and variation in the adrenocortical stress response in song sparrows (Melospiza melodia).	Physiological mechanisms that pleiotropically affect condition, life-history decisions, and fitness may covary with the expression of sexually selected ornaments. The adrenocortical stress response regulates energy balance, controls vertebrate responses to survival threats, and may divert energy expenditure away from investment in costly sexual displays. Further, developmental stress may induce correlations between the stress response during adulthood and sexual signals that develop early in life, such as song in oscine birds. We examined the relationship between the adrenocortical stress response (measured by plasma corticosterone concentrations) and the sexually selected traits of song complexity and song rate in song sparrows (Melospiza melodia). Additionally, we explored whether the stress response, song complexity, or song rate predict other male quality and fitness metrics. In contrast to prior research, which reports negative relationships between song complexity and the stress response in this species, males with larger song repertoires had larger stress responses. Song rate was unrelated to the stress response, but positively correlated with male body mass and nestling mass. In addition, males with higher syllable diversity had longer wingchords and lower hematocrit, males with larger song repertoires had heavier nestlings and higher hematocrit, and males with larger stress responses and baseline corticosterone had higher hematocrit. Results suggest that the relationship between the stress response and song complexity is context-dependent, and that song repertoire size, syllable diversity, and song rate serve distinct signaling functions. 
