Episodic focal lingual dystonic spasms.	We present the clinical history of a woman with idiopathic episodic focal lingual dystonic spasms. Although dystonic spasms of the tongue have been reported as a primary persistent phenomenon and as a feature of secondary dystonias, primary episodic lingual dystonias are rare, tend to be unilateral, and in contrast to most other paroxysmal movement disorders, do not appear responsive to anti-epileptic drugs.
An objective test for the diagnosis and grading of vasospasm in patients with Raynaud's syndrome.	1. Reliable objective tests for the diagnosis and grading of vasospasm would be helpful in the assessment of patients with Raynaud's syndrome. 2. Measurements of finger blood flow at local finger temperatures from 32 degrees C down to 20 degrees C did not reliably distinguish between patients with Raynaud's syndrome and matched control subjects. 3. Using laser Doppler flowmetry to detect blood cell flux in fingertip skin, there was no significant difference (Wilcoxon's signed rank test) in the finger systolic blood pressure of 28 patients with Raynaud's syndrome and their matched controls when the fingers were warm at 32 degrees C. 4. Absence of flux was considered to indicate complete vasospasm and the degree of cooling required to abolish flux indicated the severity of the vasospastic condition in an individual patient. 5. Finger cooling for 5 min did not significantly alter finger systolic blood pressure in the control subjects, but abolished blood cell flux in the fingertip skin of 27 of the 28 patients with Raynaud's syndrome. 6. A grading scale was derived from the flux measurements. There was a significant correlation (r = 0.75, P less than 0.001) between the grading of disease severity as judged by the flux test and the clinical grade as assessed before the laboratory visit. 7. There was one false-negative result in the 28 patients with Raynaud's syndrome tested and no false-positive results in 28 matched control subjects. 8. This type of testing may prove helpful in the diagnosis and grading of vasospastic disorders.
Hemimasticatory muscle spasm: an electromyogram analysis]	To investigate the usefulness of electromyogram (EMG) in the diagnosis of the patients with hemimasticatory spasm (HMS).
Vasospasm of the scrotum--a manifestation of Raynaud's phenomenon?	Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) is characterized by local artery vasoconstriction in response to cold exposure or emotional stress. RP appears as attacks of blanching or cyanosis of digits, or both, followed by a hyperaemic phase. Usually the digits of the hands or less commonly of the feet are affected. Other sites such as nose, ears could also be affected. We report a patient who has been suffering for long time of cold induced sensitivity associated with well demarcated pallor of the scrotum.
Microcomputer-based portable long-term spasticity recording system.	A device for long-term monitoring of muscle activity (EMG) with surface electrodes and method of its application are described in this paper. This device is called a microcomputer two-channel EMG monitor. The device can be used for up to 24 h monitoring of EMG activity, followed by data transfer to a host computer for signal analysis. This device records amplified, rectified, and integrated EMG activity. Shorter recording time allows shorter sampling periods suitable for different other EMG analysis. Recording of spontaneous EMG in complete spinal cord injured subjects was the original reason for the design of the long-term monitor. These recordings were used for estimation of spasticity in complete spinal cord patients.
Spasmodic dysphonia. Investigation and therapeutic methods]	We report the successful treatment of three patients with adduction spasmodic dysphonia by direct injection of botulinum toxin into the vocal cord(s). This was achieved under electromyographic control, and this and other otolaryngeal techniques were used to monitor treatment and study this often puzzling condition.
Levator ani trigger point injections: An underutilized treatment for chronic pelvic pain.	We conducted this study to examine the role of trigger point injections in females with chronic pelvic pain (CPP) of at least 6 months duration and specific levator ani trigger points.
Clinical and polyneuroelectrophysiological characteristics of infantile spasm]	To explore the characteristics of various seizure types in infantile spasm (IS) and to recognize the clinical and electrophysiological differences among spasm, myoclonic and tonic seizures.
Hemifacial spasm: a review.	Hemifacial spasm can be diagnosed by observation and clinical history. It is thought to arise primarily from compression of the facial nerve at the pons, usually by an adjacent artery. Although many approaches to treatment have been tried, the most effective is microvascular decompression of the facial nerve at the pons. That operation has well-recognized risks, including ipsilateral deafness. The latter complication ordinarily can be avoided by the use of intraoperative monitoring of auditory evoked potentials.
Hemifacial spasm: MR imaging features.	MR imaging was used to evaluate the relationship of the root exit zone of the seventh cranial nerve to surrounding vascular structures in 13 patients with clinically documented hemifacial spasm and in 70 asymptomatic patients. MR imaging clearly demonstrated the course of the seventh nerve from the root exit zone of the brainstem to the internal auditory canal and its relationship to the surrounding vertebrobasilar system. The presence of a vascular structure at the root exit zone of the seventh nerve was identified in all 13 patients with hemifacial spasm. In the 70 asymptomatic patients, examination of 140 seventh nerves revealed that 21% had contact by a vascular structure at the root exit zone of the seventh nerve. Our results indicate that although neurovascular contact may be asymptomatic, MR demonstration of a vascular structure at the root exit zone of the seventh cranial nerve in a patient with hemifacial spasm may implicate neurovascular compression as the cause of symptomatology. This finding may alter therapeutic management. Because of the inherent limitations of CT in the visualization of posterior fossa structures, MR imaging should be considered the initial screening procedure in the assessment of patients with hemifacial spasm.
Spasm of intracranial arteries or spastic syndrome in ruptured cerebral aneurysm?]	Cerebral vasospasm is the most serious complication of intracranial hemorrhage rupture. For example, the resulting neurological deficits affect more than 30 thousand patients in North America. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is accompanied by the release of more than 50 endogenous substances, most possessing vasoconstrictory activities. There are many theories explaining the pathogenesis of vasospasm following SAH. The most popular is the theory of direct vasoconstrictory activity of releasing substances on a vessel wall. The other one describes the narrowing of vessel lumen as a result of angiopathic process. The other theories include the vasoactive, neurotoxic and ++immuno-aggressive concepts of neurological deficit in following aneurysm rupture. The relationship between the vasospasm and the neurological deficit is also discussed.
AAEM case report #21: hemifacial spasm: preoperative diagnosis and intraoperative management.	A 75-year-old man developed progressive involuntary hemifacial spasm. Electrophysiologic evidence of abnormal cross-transmission between neurons of the facial nerve was demonstrated. Electrodiagnostic studies were used to confirm the diagnosis preoperatively and determine the adequacy of vascular decompression of the facial nerve intraoperatively.
Facial dystonia, essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm.	Movement disorders, or dyskinesias, in the facial region may be categorized in several ways. Dystonic movement disorders in the cranial-cervical region, including essential blepharospasm, Meige syndrome and spasmodic torticollis, are characterized by uncontrollable squeezing movements in the face and neck. These disorders typically present in the fifth and sixth decades of life. Essential blepharospasm is particularly debilitating, as the involuntary eyelid closure that accompanies this condition may result in functional blindness with an otherwise normal visual pathway. Hemifacial spasm is an intermittent, unilateral, spasmodic contraction of the muscles innervated by the facial nerve. This disorder usually presents in the third or fourth decade and has a different underlying pathophysiology than the dystonias. Botulinum A toxin therapy has largely supplanted surgical intervention in the treatment of essential blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm.
Traumatic lesion of the popliteal artery. Synthesis of our experience]	The Authors reported experiences from 26 traumas of popliteal artery; 2 are related to continuous microtrauma from exotosis; 2 vasospasms implied vascular intervention. Tibial artery bypasses with vein grafts have been advocated to obviate any exploration of popliteal hematoma. A multidisciplinary approach consisting of orthopedist, plastic and vascular surgeons should be employed.
Oromandibular dystonia treatment following a loss of vertical dimension.	Oromandibular dystonia is a rare condition of hyperkinetic motor dysfunction in the orofacial area. It is a centrally mediated disorder of unknown aetiology and manifested by a sustained contraction of masticatory muscles, involving one or both lateral pterygoids, and pushing the mandible forward. The prognosis is poor and the treatment is symptomatic. This paper describes a case of a 38-year-old woman referred for a locked left TMJ who was diagnosed as having an oromandibular dystonia. A step-by-step diagnosis and treatment procedure is described.
Interesting case of subependymoma of the spinal cord.	Subependymomas are rare, slow-growing, and usually noninvasive/nonaggressive World Health Organization Grade I tumors that tend to occur in the ventricles. Their most common site of occurrence is the fourth ventricle followed by the lateral ventricles. Spinal cord subependymomas typically manifest as cervical and cervicothoracic intramedullary or, rarely, extramedullary mass lesions. They often present clinically with pain and neurologic symptoms, including motor, sensory, urinary, and sexual dysfunction. Histologically, there are hypocellular areas with occasional clusters of cells and frequent microcystic changes, calcifications, and hemorrhage. Radiologically, subependymomas generally manifest as eccentric well circumscribed nodular lesions with mild-to-moderate enhancement.
Defecography used as a screening entry for identifying evacuatory pelvic floor disorders in childhood constipation.	Defecography is one of the most valuable methods for the evaluation of pelvic floor disorders. Interest in this technique has rapidly expanded owing to its increased understanding of the multifactorial pathophysiology involving evacuation disorders. The value of defecography has reached a consensus in adulthood but is still limited in childhood. In this study, defecography was carried out in 8 volunteers and 96 constipation children. The results revealed that defecography can help to identify evacuatory pelvic floor disorders in childhood constipation. It is safe and feasible and should be used as a screening method for childhood constipation. 
Gastric ulcer disease in infants: US findings.	Among 600 infants examined with ultrasound for vomiting, seven (mean age, 3 months) had distinctive features that can be considered diagnostic of gastric ulcer. The findings are thickening of the mucosa (greater than 4 mm) in the antropyloric region, elongation of the antropyloric canal, persistent spasm, and delayed gastric emptying. Two of the infants had slight thickening of the pyloric muscle. Gastrointestinal series or endoscopy demonstrated thickened gastric mucosa and a deformed gastric antrum in all infants, as well as actual ulceration in five.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia.	Hereditary spastic paraplegia is a genetically transmitted disease that is usually autosomal dominant. Characterized by a slow progression of spastic paraparesis, it is frequently misdiagnosed as cerebral palsy. Our experience consists of six families with a total of 26 affected members. All initial referrals were children with a slowly progressive paraplegia. Each child was noted to have slightly delayed motor milestones, normal intellect, and no history of perinatal cerebral event. Each child was treated when necessary with appropriate tendon lengthenings. Recognition is the key to management. A careful patient and family history will reveal the hereditary nature of the disease and help develop treatment plans.
Radiologic and manometric correlation in "nutcracker esophagus".	"Nutcracker esophagus" is a newly described esophageal motor disorder seen in some patients with chest pain and/or dysphagia and characterized manometrically by normal primary peristalsis with distal contractions of high amplitude. The radiographic and manometric examinations in 20 patients with nutcracker esophagus were correlated. Normal primary peristalsis was observed radiographically in 16 patients, and a nonspecific motor disorder was diagnosed in the remaining four patients. Mild-to-severe nonspecific tertiary activity was seen in about half of the patients, esophageal wall thickness was normal. It is concluded that nutcracker esophagus is primarily a manometric diagnosis made in the appropriate clinical setting, and that the radiographic findings are normal or nonspecific.
Spasm of the near reflex.	Four patients with spasm of the near reflex are described. This entity is characterized by transient attacks of convergence, accommodation, and miosis, and is usually seen in young individuals as a functional disturbance. This disease has to be differentiated from other horizontal gaze disturbances, including sixth nerve palsy, divergence paralysis, and insufficiency. Despite extensive investigations, no central nervous system disease was found.
Syndrome of symptomatic coronary arterial spasm with nearly normal coronary arteriograms.	The clinical manifestations of symptomatic coronary arterial spasm were analyzed in 30 patients whose coronary arteriograms demonstrated no fixed severe obstructions. The study group consisted of 14 men and 16 women (average age, 47 years). Angina at rest was invariable and it was usually typical in quality, location, duration and response to nitroglycerin. Exertional angina occurred in 23 percent and syncope with angina in 33 percent. Spontaneous remission of angina for at least 1 month occurred in 57 percent of patients. Prinzmetal's variant angina occurred in 77 percent of patients and only S-T segment depression or T wave changes during angina occurred in 23 percent. Major arrhythmias during ischemia developed in 47 percent. Exericse tests were positive in 24 percent. Myocardial infarction, probably due to coronary spasm, occurred in 7 percent of patients. Isosorbide dinitrate and propranolol were effective therapy in only 39 percent and 6 percent of patients, respectively. Nifedipine, a calcium flux antagonist, was effective in 80 percent of patients. Patients with normal coronary arteriograms who have clinical features suggestive of coronary arterial spasm should be considered for further investigation, including long-term electrocardiographic monitoring and provocative testing for spasm.
Idiopathic hemifacial spasm treated with alcohol injection: a case report.	A case of idiopathic hemifacial spasm is presented. Review of the literature shows that systemic medical treatment has been of little value in relieving this condition. Many neurosurgical techniques are now available but there is a significant incidence of recurrence. Also, not all patients desire such surgery nor may they be good surgical candidates. There is the inherent tendency for postoperative morbidity and surgical complications. After proper neurological and otological examination, alcohol injection is a safe and simple office procedure that can be used effectively in the relief of hemifacial spasm.
Cerebral systemic lupus erythematosus: a case report and evaluation of diagnostic tests.	We describe a 34 year old woman who presented initially with a progressive pseudobulbar palsy. A delay of five months occurred before a diagnosis of cerebral systemic lupus erythematosus was made. Currently available investigations for cerebral systemic lupus erythematosus are evaluated and the need for an easily performed specific diagnostic test is discussed.
Three-dimensional-MRI of neurovascular compression in patients with hemifacial spasm.	We prospectively studied 30 patients to assess the usefulness of three-dimensional (3D) contrast-enhanced MRI in patients with hemifacial spasm. In all patients neurovascular compression of the facial nerve could be detected. Microvascular decompression was performed in 14, and vascular compression of the root exit zone of the facial nerve and the offending artery were exactly as predicted by MRI in all but 2. We also retrospectively studied whether the symptomatic side could be defined only by enhanced 3D MRI in 55 randomised individuals (30 with and 25 without hemifacial spasm). All symptomatic sides were correctly identified, and the false-positive rate was 13.8%.
Assessment of masseter spasm complicated by a faulty temperature probe.	During palatoplasty on a 9-year-old girl with no personal or familial history of malignant hyperthermia, the temperature monitor reported an increase in temperature. Additionally, the surgeon thought the patient's jaw muscle was in spasm. While preparations were made for treatment of malignant hyperthermia, the temperature probe was tested and found to be defective. When it was replaced, the patient's temperature was within normal range. When the temperature probe was tested 6 days later, it was working properly. The cause of the problem may have been moisture in the connection between the probe and the exterior cable, which eventually evaporated. Decision algorithms can assist in such situations to distinguish between a medical problem and a mechanical problem with the monitor.
Methods for detection of changes in muscle tonus]	Muscular spasm is a frequent symptom which is difficult to record precisely. On the basis of literature on the subject and of own studies, we undertook to describe various methods of examination which could be used to demonstrate such changes. Up to now, palpation is still the most important and most exact method for the experienced examiner. In this way local as well as extended muscular spasms can be made evident. The disadvantage however is the lack of objective proof. The easy-to-use Tissue-Compliance-Meter of Fischer, which measures the consistency of soft tissue, documents the intraindividual difference rather than the interindividual difference. This is due to the individually variable thickness of the subcutaneous fatty tissue. However, on the whole there is a good correlation to the findings of palpation. The pendulous-test and badismography allow especially the conclusion with regard to unilateral changes of tonus in the gluteal and upper leg muscles. This method also very well suits the intraindividual comparison, but less so the interindividual one. The continuous electromyogram is able to show the enhanced activity in spasmotic muscles also during sleep. The evaluation of enhanced muscle activity remains uncertain when using plain electromyogram. Recording of muscle tissue oxygen pressure is of little use to evaluate muscle spasm. Nonetheless, it provides interesting insights into pathogenetic questions. Thermography, measuring the blood circulation at the skin surface, is especially suited for perceiving intraindividual differences in case of muscle spasm. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy allows for noninvasive pH measurements in the muscle and therewith renders certain data concerning the degree of tension of this tissue. It is not yet suited for routine examination. The value of positron emission tomography for registering muscle spasm remains uncertain. Hopefully, this method, which documents the muscle energy metabolism, will enable us to more clearly evaluate muscle spasm than previous methods have done. Light and electron microscopic studies have provided contradictory results concerning histological changes in muscle biopsy in case of muscle spasm.
Magnetic resonance tomographic angiography in the investigation of hemifacial spasm.	Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), combined with submillimeter magnetic resonance tomographic angiographic sections (MRTA) showed vascular compression of the 7th cranial nerve or its root exit zone (REZ) in the brain stem in 24 of 37 patients (64.86%) with hemifacial spasm. MRA alone was positive for REZ compression in only 19 (51.4%) cases, while conventional MRI was even less revealing, only 10 (27%) cases being positive.
Microvascular compression of the accessory nerve in torticollis spastica]	The paper deals with the pathogenesis of torticollis spastica and potential modes of their treatment. The findings indicate that changes in the root of nerve XI are essential in the pathogenesis of this abnormality. Despite comparatively small materials, much higher efficiency of micro-decompression of the accessory nerve is shown.
Electrophysiological investigation of hemifacial spasm: F-waves of the facial muscles.	In patients with hemifacial spasm (HFS), the spasm is due to cross-compression of the facial nerve by a blood vessel. There are currently two hypotheses for the mechanism of HFS: 1) the spasm is caused by ephaptic transmission and an increase in excitability at the site of compression; and 2) the spasm is caused by hyperexcitability in the facial nerve nucleus. In peripheral nerves, F-waves, which result from the backfiring of antidromically activated anterior horn cells, have been proposed as indices of proximal motoneuron conduction and anterior horn cell excitability. Enhancement of the F-waves indicates increased anterior horn cell excitability. We have therefore measured F-waves in the facial muscle of HFS patients in order to investigate the excitability of the facial nerve nucleus. The authors obtained facial nerve evoked responses from 20 HFS patients before microvascular decompression (MVD), 10 HFS patients after MVD and 10 healthy controls. The F-waves, obtained with surface electrodes from the mentalis muscle, were the second response after the M-wave. On the patient's spasm side, the F-wave duration, F/M amplitude ratio and frequency of F-wave appearance significantly increased compared with those of the normal side or healthy controls; minimum latency and chronodispersion did not significantly differ between these groups. In patients whose spasm disappeared completely following MVD, the abnormal muscle response (lateral spread), which is a characteristic sign of HFS, and the enhancement of the F-wave eventually also disappeared. Because of the correlation between HFS and F-waves, the authors' study supports the hypothesis that the cause of HFS is hyperexcitability of the facial motonucleus.
Recurrence of hemifacial spasm after microvascular decompression.	The success of medical and surgical treatment for hemifacial spasm, and involuntary paroxysmal unilateral contraction of the facial muscles, has been mixed. Although microvascular decompression has the greatest reported success, symptom recurrence affects many patients in whom treatment was initially successful. In this study, we report the results of 34 patients who underwent microvascular decompression of the facial nerve from 1976 to 1989 as well as review the literature concerning the incidence and timing of recurrence in more than 600 patients who underwent microvascular decompression. In this series, 94% of 34 patients had continuous relief of spasm after surgical treatment (mean duration, > 6 yr). Of those patients whose spasms were completely initially relieved, 10.3% developed some degree of recurrent spasm; however, no patient developed a recurrence after 24 months without spasm. Our review of the literature discloses that 86% of all recurrences occurred within 2 years of surgery. Patients who have no recurrence of symptoms 2 years after surgical treatment have only a 1% chance of developing recurrent hemifacial spasm. We also comment on possible causes of treatment failure and recurrence of hemifacial spasm after surgical treatment.
