Selective facial neurectomy for hemifacial spasm]	Twenty-six patients were treated for hemifacial spasm by selective facial neurectomy. The symptoms of hemifacial spasm can be relieved by performing extracranial selective facial neurectomy with preservation of the temporal and cervical ramus. The facial nerve branches have been identified by selective electrical stimulation over the nerve, which evokes responses from the corresponding facial muscles. Selective facial neurectomy were completed when stimulation of the nerve produces minimal movement in the orbicularis oculi muscle while normal contractions appear in the frontal region and lip portion. The results of surgery 2 years postoperatively indicated that the complete disappearance of hemifacial spasm was achieved in 65.6 percent of the patients. A slight relief was achieved in 15.5 percent of the patients. Unsatisfactory results were obtained in 11.5 percent. No spasm recurred in 7.5 percent of patients, but paralysis of frontal muscle persisted.
Results of reoperation for failed microvascular decompression.	Among 64 patients with hemifacial spasm (HFS) and 60 with trigeminal neuralgia (TN) treated by microvascular decompression (MVD), repeated MVD performed on 3 cases with HFS resulted in the absence of spasm in all cases. In 7 cases with TN, this technique resulted in complete remission in 2, recurrence in 3, and no pain relief in 2 cases. MVD was more effective on HFS than on TN in repeated procedures as well as for initial treatment. The cause of recurrence of HFS was attributed to the inadequate cushion effect of muscle as a prosthesis, while that for TN was suspected to be related more to post-operative fibrotic adhesions formed around the fifth nerve.
Hearing prognosis and intraoperative guidance of brainstem auditory evoked potential in microvascular decompression.	Intraoperative monitoring of brainstem auditory evoked potential (BAEP) was done in 34 patients submitted to microvascular decompression (MVD). Seventeen of these patients had trigeminal neuralgia, and 17 had hemifacial spasm. Transitory postoperative hearing loss was observed in 6 (18%) of the patients, and permanent hearing loss was observed in 2 (6%) of the patients. Wave I-V interpeak latency (IPL) was calculated during each step of the MVD procedure in order to identify the dangerous steps of the surgery. Wave I-V IPL abnormalities occurred more frequently during cerebellar retraction. Of the 6 patients who had total loss of BAEP lasting throughout the surgery, 1 (17%) had definitive deafness. Ten of the 34 patients had an absence or partial diminution of BAEP without total normalization before the end of surgery. Among these 10 patients, 2 had transitory hearing loss and 1 had permanent hearing loss.
A case of juvenile hemifacial spasm, successfully treated by microvascular decompression]	A 16-year-old girl had an episode of intermittent involuntary spasm of the right inferior orbicularis oculi muscle at the age of 12. In the following years the right orbicularis oris muscle and platysma were unilaterally and progressively involved in the spasms and with increasing frequency. Medical treatment with minor transquilizer was not effective. She was referred to our department at the age of 16. CT and MRI revealed no abnormality. Angiographical study revealed that the right PICA (posterior inferior cerebellar artery) was tourtously coming off from a relatively high portion of the right vertebral artery. The trunk of the right AICA (anterior inferior cerebellar artery) was not able to be identified. Although the onset of this condition was unusually early, the clinical course and symptoms of hemifacial spasm were so clearly typical that she underwent microvascular decompression surgery on July 26, 1988, at the age of 16. During the operation an upward looping PICA was found crossing and tightly compressing the exit zone of the right facial nerve. The offending artery seemed to be elastic without significant atherosclerotic change. The arterial loop was carefully dissected and replaced with two pieces of sponge prosthesis between the artery and the surface of brain stem. Her hemifacial spasm completely disappeared post-operatively. No recurrence has been noted for over one year in the follow-up observation. Hemifacial spasm is subacutely or chronically a progressive disorder of facial involuntary movement. The arterial compression in the exit zone of the facial nerve is said to be the cause of the disorder and microvascular decompression has been indicated for it since a little before the beginning of this decade.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term follow-up of the flexor carpi ulnaris transfer in spastic hemiplegic children.	A retrospective study was performed on 25 patients with cerebral palsy who underwent transfer of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the radial wrist extendors. The mean age at the time of surgery was 8 years 1 month. The mean follow-up was 8 years 7 months. At follow-up, the mean active wrist dorsiflexion was 44.2 degrees, palmar flexion was 19.0 degrees, supination was 40.2 degrees, and pronation was 53.4 degrees. According to a modification of Green's evaluation system, there were six excellent, nine good, five fair, and five poor results. Two patients required further surgery to correct a supination, dorsiflexion contracture. We found the transfer to be quite effective in improving wrist dorsiflexion, although there was often a significant loss of active palmar flexion postoperatively. The patient therefore should have good digital extension (with the wrist extended passively above neutral) to be considered for the transfer.
Treatment of spastic equinus by aponeurosis lengthening.	The aponeurosis lengthening described in this study was performed on 156 patients (219 procedures) with spastic equinus deformities. There was only one wound complication and no calcaneus deformities from overlengthening. The recurrence rate requiring relengthening was high (48% of the procedures), particularly if the initial operation was performed before the age of 5 years. The length of postoperative immobilization did not affect the recurrence rate. The aponeurosis lengthening technique described is a simple lengthening of the aponeurosis, leaving the soleus largely intact without the use of internal sutures. It has a negligible complication rate, but a high rate of recurrent equinus.
The treatment of hemifacial spasm with percutaneous radiofrequency thermocoagulation of the facial nerve.	The authors present their first results with the treatment of hemifacial spasm by controlled percutaneous thermocoagulation of the facial nerve. Seven patients have been treated to date with good immediate results on the movements, although a slight paresis of the homolateral facial musculature, aesthetically acceptable, persists after treatment. A long-term follow-up at more than 10 months was achieved in only 3 patients, who showed a complete regression of the spasm with partial disappearance of the facial hemiparesis.
The Foerster-Dandy operation for the treatment of spasmodic torticollis.	The short-term results of the Foerster-Dandy operation in 9 patients with spasmodic torticollis had been studied retrospectively. A good result was obtained for dyskinetic movement, but less for head tilt. Neck pains improved in 4 patients, but developed in 2 other patients postoperatively. Limitation of neck motility and abduction of the arms was seen in all patients. One patient died following a cerebral sinus thrombosis. Other surgical procedures are discussed and the results of studies of anterior rhizotomy are compared. The Foerster-Dandy procedure is indicated for severe disability or pain of more than 2 years duration not responding to other treatments.
Radiopaque synthetic sponge as a prosthesis for microvascular decompression. Technical note.	A radiopaque synthetic sponge is proposed as a prosthesis for microvascular decompression. Displacement of the prosthesis can be easily detected on a plain x-ray skull film.
