Enzymatic methylation of arsenic compounds. VII. Monomethylarsonous acid (MMAIII) is the substrate for MMA methyltransferase of rabbit liver and human hepatocytes.	Inorganic arsenite is methylated by some, but not all, animal species to dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). The monomethyl compound containing arsenic in an oxidation state of +3 has been proposed as an intermediate. Using highly purified arsenic methyltransferase from rabbit liver and the partially purified enzyme from Chang human liver hepatocytes, the activity of methylarsonic acid (MMAV) and methylarsonous acid (MMAIII) as a substrate has been characterized by Michaelis-Menten kinetics. The rabbit liver enzyme has a greater affinity for MMAIII (Km = 0.92 x 10(-5) M) than MMAV (Km = 7.0 x 10(-5) M) since the smaller the Km the greater the affinity. In addition, a dithiol, reduced lipoic acid or dithiothreitol, appears to be more active than GSH in satisfying the thiol requirement of the enzyme. Although investigators have been unable to detect the arsenic methyltransferase in surgically removed human liver, its presence in Chang human hepatocytes now has been established. The Km for MMAIII, 3.04 x 10(-6), using MMAIII methyltransferase from Chang human hepatocytes was not greatly different from that of the rabbit liver enzyme.
Peroxisome-proliferator regulates key enzymes of the tryptophan-NAD+ pathway.	Structually diverse peroxisome-proliferators (PPs) were investigated regarding their effects on NAD+ level and two key enzyme activities in the tryptophan (Trp)-NAD+ pathway in the liver of rats (Sprague-Dawley male) fed PP-containing diets freely for 2 weeks. All PPs, except for thyroxine, significantly increased hepatic NAD+ level in concert with hepatic hypertrophy. Activity of quinolinate phosphoribosyltransferase (QAPRTase), one of the key enzymes in the Trp-NAD+ pathway, was increased by the PPs which caused significant increase in the hepatic NAD+. On the other hand, alpha-amino-beta-carboxymuconate-epsilon-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSDase), another key enzyme in the Trp-NAD+ pathway, was drastically inhibited by all PPs except for linolenic acid, which was only slightly inhibitory. Most PPs investigated activated peroxisomal marker enzymes such as palmitoyl-CoA oxidase, catalase, and PPAR-alpha(peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor-alpha)-dependent enzymes, such as malic enzyme and l-3-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase. NAD+ was also increased in the rat hepatocytes cultured in the medium supplemented with PPs. These data suggested that regulation of the key enzymes in the Trp-NAD+ pathway was associated with PPAR-alpha directly or indirectly, and as a consequence the hepatic NAD+ was increased by PPs.
The observation of reactive thrombocytosis in New Zealand white rabbits in response to experimental Pasteurella multocida infection.	Reactive thrombocytosis is an increase in the circulating thrombocyte count secondary to a physiologic process within the body, often an infection. Reactive thrombocytosis is different than primary or essential thrombocytosis which is usually related to myeloproliferative neoplasia. Essential thrombocytosis is most common in adults, whereas reactive thrombocytosis is most frequently observed in children. Reactive thrombocytosis has been occasionally reported in cats, dogs and horses but has not been previously reported in the rabbit. Rabbits were challenged with virulent Pasteurella multocida. Hematologic, clinical, and culture assessments were performed prior to challenge, enabling each animal to serve as its own control. The questions asked were whether reactive thrombocytosis was a consistent phenomena and whether its presence and/or intensity was related to disease severity. All challenged rabbits demonstrated some degree of thrombocytosis in response to the infection, but individual rabbits were varied in their pattern of thrombocytosis. Elevations varied from intense to mild to undulating with durations of 1 to 11 days above 500 x 10(9)/L and 0 to 5 days above 650 x 10(9)/L. Correlation analysis was unable to demonstrate significant association between thrombocytosis, body temperature, leukocyte count, or the granulocyte lymphocyte ratio (all r < 0.2). No significant association between intensity of thrombocytosis and degree or type of pathologic lesions was observed. Thrombocytosis does not appear predictive of disease intensity or outcome. The data indicate that in the rabbit thrombocytosis is a consistent response to infection with P. multocida. Rabbits may serve as a model for the study of reactive thrombocytosis, in humans especially in children infected with Haemophilus sp., which are also a members of the bacterial family Pasteurellaceae.
Antitumor activity and novel DNA-self-strand-breaking mechanism of CNDAC (1-(2-C-cyano-2-deoxy-beta-D-arabino-pentofuranosyl) cytosine) and its N4-palmitoyl derivative (CS-682).	We have studied the antitumor activity and the novel DNA-self-strand-breaking mechanism of CNDAC (1-(2-Ccyano-2-deoxy-beta-D-arabino-pentofuranosyl)cytosine) and its N4-palmitoyl derivative (CS-682). In vitro, CS-682 showed strong cytotoxicity against human tumor cells comparable with that of CNDAC; both compounds displayed a similar broad spectrum. In vivo, however, orally administered CS-682 showed a more potent activity against human tumor xenografts than CNDAC, 5'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine, 5-fluorouracil and 2',2'-difluorodeoxycytidine. Moreover, CS-682 was effective against various human organ tumor xenografts at a wide dose range and with low toxicity, and was effective against P388 leukemic cells resistant to mitomycin-C, vincristine, 5-fluorouracil or cisplatin in syngeneic mice. CNDAC, an active metabolite of CS-682, had a prolonged plasma half-life after repeated oral administrations of CS-682 but not after oral administrations of CNDAC itself. This difference may partially explain the higher antitumor activity of CS-682 relative to CNDAC. In both CNDAC- and CS-682-treated carcinoma cells, CNDAC 5'-triphosphate (CNDACTP) was generated and incorporated into a DNA strand. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrometric analysis of the nucleosides prepared by digestion of the DNA from the CNDAC-treated cells detected ddCNC (2'-Ccyano-2',3 '-didehydro-2',3 '-dideoxycytidine), which was shown to be generated only when the self-strand-breakage of CNDACTP-incorporated DNA occurred. The cytotoxicity of CNDAC was completely abrogated by the addition of 2'-deoxycytidine and was low against cells with decreased deoxycytidine kinase. Our results suggest that CNDAC is converted to CNDACMP by deoxycytidine kinase and that the resulting CNDACTP incorporated into a DNA strand as CNDACMP may induce DNA-self-strand-breakage. This novel DNA-self-strand-breaking mechanism may contribute to the potent antitumor activity of CS-682.
Peroral infection of pigs with Schistosoma japonicum cercariae.	Infections with the zoonotic trematode, Schistosoma japonicum in pigs serves as a valuable model for studying natural definitive host/parasite relationships and a model for human schistosomosis japonica. In the present study the efficiency of a peroral infection route was compared with that of an intramuscular route of infection. Eleven specific pathogen-free Danish Landrace/Yorkshire/Duroc crossbred male and female pigs were divided into two groups of five and six pigs, respectively. Each pig was given 1000 cercariae, either placed in droplets on the mucosa in the buccal cavity, or as medium-suspended cercariae injected into musculus biceps femoris of one of the hindlegs. Ten weeks post infection, all pigs were killed with pentobarbital and the venous system perfused. Worm burdens and liver egg counts were determined and worm fecundity was calculated. S. japonicum infections were established in all individuals in both groups of pigs. When comparing the two groups, the peroral group had significantly higher number of immature worms, whereas the intramuscularly infected group had significantly more worm nodules. However, no difference was seen in total number of worms. No statistical significant differences were found in neither tissue egg counts nor worm fecundity when comparing the two groups. The results from the present study showed a delay in maturation of infection following a peroral infection as compared with an intramuscular infection, but comparability was seen between overall worm establishment and egg production.
A putative host cell receptor for tick-borne encephalitis virus identified by anti-idiotypic antibodies and virus affinoblotting.	Anti-idotypic monoclonal antibodies (anti-ID MAbs) were made against two mouse MAbs that neutralize the infectivity of the tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) virus. Three of the anti-ID MAbs (1) inhibited the binding of respective idiotypic MAb to the TBE virus antigen, (2) inhibited the infectivity of TBE virus when preincubated with virus-susceptible cells, and (3) bound to the surface of virus-susceptible but not virus-nonsusceptible cells. They recognized a 35-kD protein in immunoblotting analysis. Identification of this protein as a component of a putative TBE virus receptor was supported by the viroblot technique. In this assay, two polypeptide signals of 35 and 18 kD were obtained after incubation of blotted cell membrane proteins with the TBE virion antigen.
T cell-mediated and non-specific inflammatory mechanisms contribute to the skin pathology of HPV 16 E6E7 transgenic mice.	One of three lines of mice transgenic for the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV16) expressed from an alphaA-crystallin promoter also expresses the transgene ectopically in the skin. This line, designated alphaACE6E7#19, develops skin disease from 3 months of age, characterised by epidermal hyperplasia and eventual skin loss. Administration of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) to alphaACE6E7#19 mice, but not to non-transgenic littermate controls, induced local epidermal hyperplasia which was histologically similar to the spontaneously arising skin pathology. Local application of 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) to DNCB-sensitised alphaACE6E7#19 mice, but not DNCB-sensitised controls, also induced hyperplasia. Treatment with cyclosporin A (CsA) or systemic depletion of CD4+ cells significantly reduced the incidence of skin disease. These data suggest that local inflammation, and cytokines produced by T helper cells, contribute to the induction of hyperplastic skin disease in alphaACE6E7#19 mice. Spontaneous skin disease with similar histological appearance, frequency, age of onset and severity in alphaACE6E7#19 mice was observed in scid-/- alphaACE6E7#19 mice, despite immune paresis. Antigen-specific immune responses and T-cell cytokines are therefore not necessary for the induction of skin disease. We propose that epidermal hyperplasia associated with HPV16 E6 and E7 expression in skin is accelerated by local secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, whose production can be enhanced by activated CD4+ T cells.
Inhibition of pristane-induced peritoneal plasmacytoma formation.	While the mechanism of how Indo inhibits PCTGEN is not established, Several hypothetical explanations provide new potential experimental approaches. Indo may block production of cytokines such as Il-6 in accessory cells that are critical for B-cell growth, viability and maturation, or it may directly target B cells via PPAR-gamma receptors. The latter mode of action is described in other cell types but not yet defined in B cells.
Plasmacytoma induction in specific pathogen-free (SPF) bcl-2 transgenic BALB/c mice.	Germ-free (GF) and specific pathogen free (SPF) BALB/c mice are refractory to plasmacytoma induction by pristane (McIntire and Princler, 1969, Byrd et al 1991). It was therefore suggested that MPC development may depend on antigenic stimulation. If so, it may conceivably act by preventing the apoptotic elimination of tumor precursor cells. We have tested this idea by elevating the apoptotic threshold by the introduction of a bcl-2 transgene. We have found that MPCs could be induced by pristane oil in transgene carrying SPF mice. An E mu activated bcl-2 transgene was introduced into SPF BALB/c mice. The mice were used after two backcrosses (BC-2). Pristane oil treatment was started at 4 to 6 weeks of age (3 x 0.3 ml via i.p. at monthly intervals). For each transgene carrier a transgene negative littermate was used as control. Fifteen of 24 (63%) transgene carriers developed plasmacytomas after latency periods between 67 and 146 days (mean = 112 +/- 30 days) after the first pristane injection. Five additional transgene carriers developed lymphoma (3 cases) or mixed MPC and lymphoma (2 cases). In contrast, no tumors developed in 16 transgene negative littermates that were kept > 300 days under observation. Karyotyping showed that 10/15 (66%) of the MPCs carried a T(12;15) translocation, 4/15 (27%) carried both T(12;15) and T(6;15) translocations in the same metaphase plate, and 1/15 (7%) was translocation free. A T(12;15) translocation was also detected in one of the 2 mice with mixed tumor type. Pristane treated bcl-2 transgenic C57B1/6 mice remained tumor free, although T(12;15) translocation carrying cells were found in the peritoneal fluid of 4/20 mice 176 days after pristane.
All-trans retinoic acid delays the differentiation of primitive hematopoietic precursors (lin-c-kit+Sca-1(+)) while enhancing the terminal maturation of committed granulocyte/monocyte progenitors.	All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is a potent inducer of terminal differentiation of malignant promyelocytes, but its effects on more primitive hematopoietic progenitors and stem cells are less clear. In this study, we investigated the effect of ATRA on highly enriched murine hematopoietic precursor cells (lin-c-kit+Sca-1(+)) grown in liquid suspension culture for 28 days. ATRA initially slowed the growth of these hematopoietic precursors but prolonged and markedly enhanced their colony-forming cell production compared with the hematopoietic precursors cultured in its absence. At 7 and 14 days of culture, a substantially greater percentage of cells cultured with ATRA did not express lineage-associated antigens (55.4% at day 7 and 68.6% at day 14) and retained expression of Sca-1 (44.7% at day 7 and 79.9% at day 14) compared with cells grown in its absence (lin- cells: 31.5% at day 7 and 4% at day 14; Sca-1(+): 10.4% at day 7 and 0.7% at day 14). Moreover, a marked inhibition of granulocyte production was observed in cultures continuously incubated with ATRA. Significantly, ATRA markedly prolonged and enhanced the production of transplantable colony-forming unit-spleen (CFU-S) during 14 days of liquid suspension culture. In contrast with its effects on primitive lin-c-kit+Sca-1(+) hematopoietic precursors, ATRA did not exert the same effects on the more committed lin-c-kit+Sca-1(-) progenitor cells. Moreover, the late addition of ATRA (7 days post-culture initiation) to cultures of primitive hematopoietic precursors resulted in a marked decrease in colony-forming cell production in these cultures, which was associated with enhanced granulocyte differentiation. These observations indicate that ATRA has different effects on hematopoietic cells depending on their maturational state, preventing and/or delaying the differentiation of primitive hematopoietic precursors while enhancing the terminal differentiation of committed granulocyte/monocyte progenitors.
Acute systemic reaction and lung alterations induced by an antiplatelet integrin gpIIb/IIIa antibody in mice.	Shock is frequently accompanied by thrombocytopenia. To investigate the pathogenic role of platelets in shock, we examined the in vivo effects of monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) against mouse platelet membrane proteins. Injection of the platelet-specific MoAb MWReg30 to the fibrinogen receptor (gpIIb/IIIa) rendered mice severely hypothermic within minutes. Isotype-matched control antibodies, even if they also recognized platelet surface antigens, did not induce comparable signs. MWReg30 induced early signs of acute lung injury with increased cellularity in the lung interstitium and rapid engorgement of alveolar septal vessels. Despite this in vivo activity, MWReg30 inhibited rather than stimulated platelet aggregation in vitro. MWReg30-binding to platelets led to phosphorylation of gpIIIa, but did not induce morphological signs of platelet activation. The MWReg30-induced reaction was abolished after treatment with MoAbs 2.4G2 to FcgammaRII/III and was absent in FcgammaRIII-deficient mice, clearly demonstrating the requirement for FcgammaRIII on involved leukocytes. Simultaneous administration of tumor necrosis factor exacerbated, whereas a tolerizing regimen of tumor necrosis factor or bacterial lipopolysaccharide completely prevented the reaction. These data suggest that platelet surface-deposited MWReg30-immune complexes lead to an acute Fc-mediated reaction with pulmonary congestion and life-threatening potential that could serve as an in vivo model of acute lung injury.
Misexpression of a bHLH gene, cNSCL1, results in abnormal brain development.	NSCL1 is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor involved in the development of the nervous system. To elucidate its role in neurogenesis, we cloned chick NSCL1 (cNSCL1) and examined its expression pattern and the effect of its misexpression on brain development. cNSCL1 was predominantly expressed during active neurogenesis. Double-labeling experiments showed that proliferating neuroblasts in the ventricular zone lacked cNSCL1 expression and cells expressing cNSCL1 were located just outside the ventricular zone. Retroviral misexpression of cNSCL1 in chick embryos produced a brain with abnormal structure. While the forebrain of the embryonic day-12 (E12) brain appeared normal, the tectum was enlarged. The enlargement was likely due to an increase in cell proliferation, since more radioactivity was detected in this region of the brain after [3H]thymidine labeling at E9. The cerebellum, on the other hand, was reduced in size. Fewer cells were labeled with BrdU in the external granule layer (a secondary germinal layer required for cerebellum development) in experimental embryos than in the controls, suggesting that misexpression of cNSCL1 might interfere with cell proliferation in the external granular layer. Our data indicate that regulated expression of cNSCL1 is required for normal brain development. They also imply that cNSCL1 might be involved in preventing some postmitotic cells from reentering the cell cycle during neurogenesis. Dev Dyn 1999;215:238-247.
Enhancement by IL-12 of the cytolytic T lymphocyte (CTL) response of mice immunized with tumor-specific peptides in an adjuvant containing QS21 and MPL.	Immunization of cancer patients with tumor-specific antigenic peptides is currently being tested in several clinical studies. We have examined the induction of CTL responses in mice after various modalities of peptide vaccination, to explore protocols that could be applied to humans. Our first model antigen was P198, which results from a point mutation in a normal gene. While two immunizations with peptide P198 in SBAS-1c adjuvant induced measurable CTL responses in less than 10% of DBA/2 mice, the addition of IL-12 to the peptide adjuvant mixture resulted in high CTL responses in nearly all mice. This strong enhancing effect of IL-12 was observed with 1,000 and 300 units and decreased gradually as the doses were reduced to 30 units. When IL-12 was replaced by other cytokines acting on T cells or antigen-presenting cells, such as IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-6, IL-7, GM-CSF or MCP-3, no significant enhancing effect was observed. The same effect of IL-12 was obtained with peptide P1A, which is a major tumor-specific antigen of mastocytoma P815 and is encoded by a gene that is specifically activated in tumors.
Studies on the dermal and systemic bioavailability of polycyclic aromatic compounds in high viscosity oil products.	The assessment of skin penetration by viscous oil products is an important element in the risk assessment of these materials where skin contact is likely. Systemic bioavailability (body uptake) is viewed as a good indicator of skin penetration following cutaneous exposures. The results of this study provide quantitative information on the influence of viscosity on the bioavailability of a specific polycyclic aromatic compound (benzo(a)pyrene) in base oils, residual aromatic extracts and bitumens following skin exposures to mice. The materials studied were a base mineral oil (viscosity 32 cSt at 35 degrees C), a 1:1 blend of the mineral base oil and a residual aromatic extract (198 cSt), several residual aromatic extracts (ca. 5000 cSt, 35 degrees C) and a range of bitumens (0.65-69 x 10(6) cSt, 35 degrees C). These were each spiked with 0.1% radiolabelled benzo(a)pyrene, as a representative carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic compound, then used for cutaneous exposures to mice. The results indicate that as viscosity increased in the range ca. 30 to 5000 cSt (base oil to residual aromatic extract) the uptake of the radiolabelled benzo(a)pyrene into blood was reduced by ca. fivefold. Further increases in viscosity from ca. 5000 to 69 x 10(6) cSt (i.e. residual aromatic extract to bitumen) resulted in a further but smaller (ca. twofold) reduction in uptake. The relationship between the amounts of free benzo(a)pyrene measured in blood and viscosity showed the same trend. This trend was also mirrored by the degree of binding of benzo(a)pyrene metabolites to DNA in skin. The findings in mouse skin in vivo indicate that viscosity can significantly affect skin penetration and systemic bioavailability of polycyclic aromatic compound components of oil products. Results obtained with viable human skin in vitro also showed that the bioavailability of benzo(a)pyrene was reduced by the viscosity of the oil product matrix. It is thus necessary to take account of physical properties such as viscosity in the overall risk assessment of viscous oil products, particularly in the case of very viscous materials such as bitumens. The significantly reduced bioavailability of hazardous compounds from undiluted materials is thus an important factor to consider when assessing the risks from dermal exposures.
T cell-dependent immune reactions to reactive benzene metabolites in mice.	Using the popliteal lymph node (PLN) assay in mice, we studied the sensitizing potential of benzene and its metabolites. Whereas benzene and phenol failed to induce a PLN reaction, catechol and hydroquinone induced a moderate, and p-benzoquinone a vigorous response. Following a single injection of the reactive metabolite p-benzoquinone (100 nmol/mouse), cellularity in the draining PLN was increased > 15-fold, and reverted back to normal only after approximately 100 days. Although the PLN response was T cell-dependent, flow cytometric analysis revealed that the increased cellularity in the PLN after a single injection of p-benzoquinone was mainly due to an increase in B cells. Mice primed to p-benzoquinone and challenged with a small dose of p-benzoquinone (0.1 nmol/mouse) mounted a secondary PLN reaction, indicating hapten specificity of the reaction; this was confirmed by results obtained in the adoptive transfer PLN assay. An unexpected finding was the secondary PLN response to benzene (1 nmol/mouse) observed in mice primed to p-benzoquinone. This finding suggests that some of the benzene (at least 10%) was locally converted into p-benzoquinone, which then elicited the secondary response observed. In conclusion, the reactive intermediate metabolites hydroquinone and p-benzoquinone can act as haptens and sensitize; their precursors, benzene and phenol, may be considered as prohaptens.
Bactericidal activity of rat lung lavage fluid against Bordetella pertussis.	Cell-free lung lavage fluid (LLF) from healthy normal rats killed phase I (wild-type, virulent) Bordetella pertussis at 37 degrees C in vitro. B. parapertussis was also killed by the LLF, but phase IV (avirulent mutant) B. pertussis and some other common bacterial species, including B. bronchiseptica, were not. Transmission electron microscopy of thin sections of the phase I B. pertussis showed extensive structural damage and cell lysis. None of the other mammalian species tested had LLF with bactericidal activity against B. pertussis as high as that of the rat. Rats killed with halothane yielded LLF with higher bactericidal activity than when CO2 was used. Ultracentrifugation of LLF at 55,000 g gave a surfactant (pellet) fraction that had c. 95% of the bactericidal activity and which was biochemically distinct from the 5% of activity in the supernate fraction. Phospholipids and fatty acids appeared to be involved in LLF bactericidal activity, but not complement or lysozyme. Arachidonic acid was the most active of the fatty acids tested. Artificial surfactant, as used in premature infants, had no bactericidal effect on B. pertussis.
Effect of respiratory tract disease on pharmacokinetics of tilmicosin in rats.	In rats, murine respiratory mycoplasmosis is caused by Mycoplasma pulmonis. Tilmicosin, a macrolide antibiotic, has good tissue penetration and reaches high concentration in the lungs. Therefore, a model for studying the effects of disease on pharmacokinetics of tilmicosin was developed, using LEW rats.
Antitumor activity of 4-phenyl-1-arylsulfonylimidazolidinone, DW2143.	We examined the ability of sulfonylurea derivative, DW2143 (4-phenyl-1-[1-(4-aminobenzoyl)-indoline-5-sulfonyl]-4,5-dihydro-2-imida zolone hydrochloride), to inhibit the growth of tumor cells in vitro and in vivo. When its anti-proliferative activities were tested on five murine tumor (B 16, Colon26, E1-4, 3LL and P388) and nine human tumor (BxPC-3, HepG2, Lovo, MCF-7, NCI-H69, SW480, WiDR, KB and KBV20C) cells of diverse tissue origins, the in vitro antitumor activities of DW2143 were comparable to those of doxorubicin against all tumor cell lines. In addition, the anti-proliferative activities of DW2143 against KBV20C, a vincristine-resistant cell line, are similar or superior to those of doxorubicin. When the in vivo antitumor activities using three murine tumor cells were tested after oral administration of DW2143, a wide range of tumor growth inhibition was observed. Tumor growth inhibition against 3LL at doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg DW2143 was 84.3% and 47.2%, respectively, which was comparable or superior to those of doxorubicin (5 mg/kg). Tumor growth inhibition of B16 at a dose of 100 mg/kg in the DW2143-treated group was 42% as compared to 54% for doxorubicin (5 mg/kg). When mice implanted with Colon26 were tested, tumor growth inhibition at a dose of 80 mg/kg DW2143 was 36% as compared with 37% for doxorubicin (5 mg/kg). Taken together, these results indicate that the novel sulfonylurea derivative, DW2143, is an attractive candidate for further development as a useful oral anticancer drug.
Contribution of matrilysin (MMP-7) to the metastatic pathway of human colorectal cancers.	Matrilysin is one of the matrix metalloproteinases that has a critical role in tumour invasion, and is often expressed in gastrointestinal cancers. The aim of this study was to examine the role of matrilysin in metastasis of human colorectal cancers. PATIENTS (SUBJECTS)/METHODS: The relation between matrilysin expression and Dukes's type was investigated immunohistochemically in 83 surgically resected colorectal cancers, including five with liver metastasis. Moreover, the effects of matrilysin on the in vivo invasive and metastatic potential of colon cancer cells transfected with matrilysin cDNA were examined after subcutaneous injection into SCID mice.
Preconception urethane or chromium(III) treatment of male mice: multiple neoplastic and non-neoplastic changes in offspring.	Increase in neoplasia in offspring after preconception exposure of parents presents puzzling features such as high frequency of effects and lack of Mendelian inheritance. The present study examined the hypothesis that preconception carcinogenesis involves an increase in the rate of occurrence of neoplasms with a spontaneous incidence. Male NIH Swiss mice (12 per group) were exposed 2 weeks before mating (once, ip) to urethane (1.5 g/kg) or chromium(III) chloride (1 mmol/kg). Offspring (48-78/sex/group) were examined for all grossly apparent changes when moribund or at natural death, followed by histopathological diagnosis and statistical analysis. Significant exposure-related changes occurred in multiple organs. Ten to 20 percent of offspring showed changes related to paternal exposure, including at least one sired by most treated males. Pheochromocytomas occurred in both male and female offspring after both treatments, with none in controls. These neoplasms are rare in mice and suggest endocrine dysfunction as a component of preconception carcinogenesis. This was supported by increases in thyroid follicular cell and Harderian gland tumors, ovarian cysts, and uterine abnormalities. Lung tumors were increased in female offspring only. Effects seen in offspring only after paternal urethane exposure were an increase in preneoplasia/neoplasia in the glandular stomach (males) and in females, increased lymphoma but decreased incidence of histiocytic sarcoma. Increases in incidence of male reproductive gland tumors and of renal non-neoplastic lesions occurred only after chromium exposure. Thus, preconception exposure of fathers to toxicants had a significant impact on both neoplastic and non-neoplastic changes in almost all tissues in which these lesions often occur naturally during the aging process.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of strains of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus by use of a nested-set reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.	To increase the timeliness and sensitivity of a procedure that uses viral nucleic acid amplification followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis for identifying strains of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV).
A new experimental system for irradiating tumors in mice using a linear accelerator under specific pathogen-free conditions.	We developed a reliable system for the irradiation of xenografted tumors in mice which allows for accurate local irradiation under specific pathogen-free conditions. The system presented here consists of acrylic supports for mice and an acrylic box connected to a pump through 0.22 microns pore-sized filters. Mice with xenotransplanted tumors growing on their right hind legs were set on the supports and put into the box in a laminar flow hood. The tumors of 7 mice were irradiated simultaneously with X-rays of 6 and 10 MV generated by a linear accelerator at a dose rate of 3.1-4.7 Gy/min. The air was ventilated through filters during irradiation in the closed box. Microorganism tests confirmed that no bacteria entered or left the box. One of the significant characteristics of this setup is that it allows for irradiation under conditions of acute hypoxia, which is obtained using an integrated tourniquet. The dose variation among 7 tumors was less than 1%. The rest of the mouse's body was shielded effectively by a half-field technique and a lead block. As a result, the whole body dose for the mice was 0-4% of the total dose absorbed by the tumor. Due to the high dose rate and the ability to irradiate 7 mice simultaneously under specific pathogen-free conditions, this new system can be considered a time-saving and valuable tool for radiation oncology research.
Modulation of acute coronavirus-induced encephalomyelitis in gamma-irradiated rats by transfer of naive lymphocyte subsets before infection.	Clinical course, recovery of infectious virus from brain tissue and histopathology of the central nervous system were examined in gamma-irradiated Lewis rats reconstituted by naive lymphocytes before infection with coronavirus MHV-4 (strain JHM). Up to 9 days past infection, no differences were seen between immunologically competent and immuno-deficient animals in terms of onset and progression of neurological disease. However, in the latter animals neurological symptoms were dominated by signs of encephalitis instead of paralytic disease as usually seen in immunocompetent animals. Nevertheless, despite high titers of infectious virus in the CNS of immunodeficient animals only mild histopathological changes were noticeable. In contrast, infectious virus in the CNS of immunologically competent animals was below the detection limit of the assay. Paralytic disease and tissue destruction were T lymphocyte mediated because gamma-irradiated rats that were reconstituted by CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocyte enriched cells in the absence of B lymphocytes revealed an earlier onset of clinical symptoms and a more rapid deterioration of their clinical state compared to fully competent animals. Whereas in CD4+ T cell reconstituted animals infectious virus was moderately reduced and tissue destruction as well as inflammatory changes in the CNS were focal, in CD8+ T cell reconstituted animals vacuolizing white matter inflammation was diffuse without reduction of infectious virus in brain tissue. From the presented data we conclude that in the acute stage of JHMV-induced encephalomyelitis of Lewis rats: (i) tissue destruction and paralytic clinical symptomatology are mainly T cell-mediated; (ii) CD4+ T lymphocytes can directly contribute to reduction of viral load in the brain and (iii) only coordinated action of both, the T and the B cell compartment enables animals to survive the infection and recover from disease.
The effect of inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase on nasal uptake of inspired acetaldehyde.	At exposure concentrations of 750 ppm or more, acetaldehyde is a rodent inhalation carcinogen that induces nasal tumors. Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) is thought to be an important detoxifying enzyme for aldehydes. Although nasal tissues express ALDH, the importance of this enzyme relative to delivered dosage rates at high-inspired concentrations is not well defined. To provide such information, uptake of inspired acetaldehyde was measured at an inspiratory flow rate that approximated the minute ventilation rate in the surgically isolated nasal cavity of F 344 rats pretreated with either saline (control) or the ALDH inhibitor, cyanamide (10 mg/kg s.c.). ALDH activities (substrate concentration 3 times the K(m)) in anterior (respiratory mucosa) and posterior (olfactory mucosa) nasal tissues averaged 160 and 210 nmol/min), respectively, in control animals (total activity 370 nmol/min), compared to 60 and 80 nmol/min, respectively, in cyanamide-pretreated rats (p < 0.05), indicating that approximately 60% inhibition was obtained. Nasal uptake was measured at 3 inspired concentrations: 10, 300, and 1500 ppm. At these concentrations, acetaldehyde uptake efficiency averaged 54, 37, and 34% in saline-pretreated rats, respectively (p < 0.05). In absolute terms, the delivered dosage rates at these exposure concentrations averaged 21, 420, and 1990 nmol/min. The concentration dependence on uptake suggests a saturable process was involved. At inspired concentrations of 300 ppm or more, the delivered dosage rates exceeded the measured specific activity for nasal ALDH of 370 nmol/min. Cyanamide pretreatment abolished the concentration dependence. Specifically, uptake efficiencies in cyanamide-pretreated rats averaged 30, 27, and 31% at inspired concentrations of 10, 300, and 1500 ppm, respectively (p > 0.05); delivered dosage rates were 12, 310, and 1780 nmol/min. Thus, cyanamide pretreatment reduced nasal-delivered dosage rates at inspired concentrations of 10, 300, and 1500 ppm, respectively by 9, 110, and 210 nmol/min, values that correspond well with the total nasal ALDH activity of 370 nmol/min. In toto, these results suggest that inspired acetaldehyde is metabolized in situ by ALDH, but at exposure concentrations of 300 ppm or greater, the delivered dosage rate may equal or exceed the capacity of this enzyme.
Biodistribution and vaccine efficiency of murine dendritic cells are dependent on the route of administration.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are professional antigen-presenting cells, well equipped to initiate an immune response. Currently, tumor antigen-derived peptide loaded DCs are used in clinical vaccination in cancer patients. However, the optimal dose and route of administration of a DC vaccine still remain to be determined. Using indium-111-labeled DCs, we investigated whether the route of administration does affect the biodistribution of DCs in lymphoid organs and whether it influences the outcome of DC vaccination in the B16 mouse melanoma tumor model. The results demonstrate that i.v. injected DCs mainly accumulate in the spleen, whereas s.c. injected DCs preferentially home to the T-cell areas of the draining lymph nodes. Using tyrosinase-related protein-2-derived peptide-loaded DC vaccination in a fully autologous B16 melanoma tumor model, we observed a delay in tumor growth, improved survival as well as increased antitumor cytotoxic T-cell reactivity after s.c. vaccination as compared to i.v. vaccination. These data demonstrate that optimal induction of antitumor reactivity against the autologous melanocyte differentiation antigen tyrosinase-related protein-2-derived peptide occurs after s.c. vaccination and correlates with the preferential accumulation of DCs in the T-cell areas of lymph nodes.
Transforming growth factor beta1 suppresses nonmetastatic colon cancer at an early stage of tumorigenesis.	The transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) pathway is known to play an important role in both human and urine colon cancer. However, the staging, ligand specificity, and mechanism underlying the tumor suppressive activity of this pathway are unknown. We developed a mouse model for colon cancer that identifies an early role for TGF-beta1 in tumor suppression and implicates TGF-beta2 or TGF-beta3 in the prevention of metastasis. Analysis of the development of colon cancer in TGF-beta1 knockout mice pinpoints the defect to the hyperplasty/adenoma transition and reveals that the mechanism involves an inability to maintain epithelial tissue organization and not a loss of growth control, increased inflammatory activity, or increased genetic instability. These mice provide a unique opportunity to investigate the specific role of TGF-beta1 at this critical transition in the development of colon cancer.
The respiratory burst-inhibiting acid phosphatase AcpA is not essential for the intramacrophage growth or virulence of Francisella novicida.	Acid phosphatases capable of inhibiting the respiratory burst of neutrophils have been identified in certain intracellular pathogens. Here we evaluate the role of AcpA, a respiratory burst-inhibiting acid phosphatase of Francisella, in the virulence and intracellular growth of this organism. An F. novicida acpA null mutant was created and found to exhibit wild-type growth kinetics in both cell-line and inflammatory mouse macrophages. The acpA mutant also shows wild-type replication in the spleens of experimentally infected mice. These data suggest that AcpA is not essential for the intracellular growth or virulence of F. novicida.
Maximizing therapeutic gain with gemcitabine and fractionated radiation.	The nucleoside analogue gemcitabine inhibits cellular repair and repopulation, induces apoptosis, causes tumor growth delay, and enhances radiation-induced growth delay. After single doses of drug and radiation, maximum enhancement of tumor response was obtained when gemcitabine preceded radiation by at least 24 h. Conversely, the cellular radioresponse of the normal gastrointestinal epithelium was slightly protected when gemcitabine and radiation were separated by 24 h. This differential response created a time frame within which therapeutic gain could be maximized. In our present investigation, we sought to define the most therapeutically beneficial scheme of gemcitabine administration when combined with fractionated radiotherapy.
Promiscuous gene expression in medullary thymic epithelial cells mirrors the peripheral self.	Expression of peripheral antigens in the thymus has been implicated in T cell tolerance and autoimmunity. Here we identified medullary thymic epithelial cells as being a unique cell type that expresses a diverse range of tissue-specific antigens. We found that this promiscuous gene expression was a cell-autonomous property of medullary epithelial cells and was maintained during the entire period of thymic T cell output. It may facilitate tolerance induction to self-antigens that would otherwise be temporally or spatially secluded from the immune system. However, the array of promiscuously expressed self-antigens appeared random rather than selected and was not confined to secluded self-antigens.
IL-4 instructs TH1 responses and resistance to Leishmania major in susceptible BALB/c mice.	Immunity to infection with intracellular pathogens is regulated by interleukin 12 (IL-12), which mediates protective T helper type 1 (TH1) responses, or IL-4, which induces TH2 cells and susceptibility. Paradoxically, we show here that when present during the initial activation of dendritic cells (DCs) by infectious agents, IL-4 instructed DCs to produce IL-12 and promote TH1 development. This TH1 response established resistance to Leishmania major in susceptible BALB/c mice. When present later, during the period of T cell priming, IL-4 induced TH2 differentiation and progressive leishmaniasis in resistant mice. Because immune responses developed via the consecutive activation of DCs and then T cells, the contrasting effects of IL-4 on DC development and T cell differentiation led to immune responses that had opposing functional phenotypes.
Infection of dendritic cells by murine cytomegalovirus induces functional paralysis.	Cytomegalovirus (CMV), measles and HIV are the main human pathogens known to induce immunosuppression. Unlike measles and HIV, and despite the availability of a well studied animal model, little is known about the mechanisms that control CMV-induced immunosuppression. We hypothesized that dendritic cells (DCs), which are crucial in generating and maintaining immune responses, represent a target for CMV and that the transient, but profound, immunosuppression that accompanies CMV infection results from viral interference with DC functions. Here we show that DCs were permissive to murine CMV infection. In addition, DC infection prevented delivery of the signals required for T cell activation. Thus, CMV-mediated impairment of DC function may be crucial for virally induced immunosuppression and interleukin 2 is implicated as a key factor.
A novel transcription factor inhibitor, SP100030, inhibits cytokine gene expression, but not airway eosinophilia or hyperresponsiveness in sensitized and allergen-exposed rat.	1. We examined the effect of SP100030, a novel inhibitor of activator protein-1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B transcription factors, in a rat model of asthma. 2. Sensitized Brown-Norway rats were treated with SP100030 (20 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 3 days) intraperitoneally prior to allergen challenge. Allergen exposure of sensitized rats induced bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR), accumulation of inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, and also an increase in eosinophils and CD2(+), CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cells in the airways together with mRNA expression for IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IFN-gamma. 3. Pre-treatment with SP100030 inhibited BAL lymphocyte influx (P<0.03), specifically reduced CD8(+) T-cell infiltration in the airway submucosa (P<0.03), and mRNA expression for IL-2, IL-5, and IL-10 (P<0.05). Neutrophil, eosinophil, and CD4(+) T-cells accumulation in the airways and BHR were not affected by SP100030. 4. Our results indicate that suppression of IL-2 and IL-5 mRNA expression may not necessarily lead to suppression of BHR. The expression of IL-5 mRNA may contribute to the airway accumulation of eosinophils, but does not correlate with the extent of eosinophilia. 5. The joint AP-1 and NF-kappa B inhibitor, SP100030, selectively inhibits CD8(+) T-cells, and mRNA expression of both Th1 and Th2 cytokines in vivo, but does not inhibit allergen-induced airway eosinophilia and BHR.
Sequential changes in luminal microflora and mucosal cytokine expression during developing of colitis in HLA-B27/beta2-microglobulin transgenic rats.	Transgenic rats expressing HLA-B27 and human beta2-microglobulin (HLA-B27 rats) spontaneously develop chronic colitis resembling human inflammatory bowel disease. We investigated the sequential changes in the luminal bacterial flora and mucosal cytokine mRNA expression in this model.
Role of alveolar macrophages in Candida-induced acute lung injury.	Recent studies have shown that alveolar macrophages (AMs) not only act as phagocytes but also play a central role as potent secretory cells in various lung diseases, including pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The behavior of AMs during disseminated candidiasis, however, is insufficiently elucidated. This study is the first to report disseminated candidiasis in AM-depleted mice and to analyze the effect of AMs on Candida-induced acute lung injury. While all AM-sufficient mice died by day 2 after infection with Candida albicans, no mortality was observed among AM-depleted mice. Unexpectedly, the CFU numbers of C. albicans isolated from the lungs of AM-depleted mice were significantly higher than those for C. albicans isolated from AM-sufficient mice. The lung wet-to-dry weight ratio was lower for AM-depleted mice than for AM-sufficient mice, although this difference was not significant. We found that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from AM-depleted mice in candidemia contained fewer neutrophils than BALF from AM-sufficient mice. In addition, myeloperoxidase activities in lung homogenates of AM-depleted mice were significantly lower than those in homogenates of AM-sufficient mice. A significant decrease in levels of murine macrophage inflammatory protein 2 (MIP-2), a potent chemoattractant for neutrophils, was noted in lung homogenates from AM-depleted mice compared with levels in homogenates from AM-sufficient mice. Immunohistochemical studies using anti-MIP-2 antibodies revealed that AMs were the cellular source of MIP-2 within the lung during candidemia. We observed that AM depletion decreased levels of AM-derived neutrophil chemoattractant, alleviated acute lung injury during candidemia, and prolonged the survival of mice in candidemia, even though clearance of C. albicans from the lungs was reduced.
Effects of tyrosine kinase signaling inhibition on survival after cecal ligation and puncture in diet-restricted mice.	Malnutrition impairs host immunity, resulting in high mortality and morbidity due to infections. Phosphorylation of protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) is a key step in the signaling of many cellular functions, including immune cell functions. Malnutrition may affect this signaling in response to surgical insults. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of PTK inhibition on mortality in ad libitum and in diet-restricted mice after cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). Moreover, tyrosine phosphorylation of peritoneal cells from these animals was evaluated.
Bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotides chemosensitize human gastric cancer in a SCID mouse xenotransplantation model.	We used Bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotides (G3139) to chemosensitize human gastric cancer by downregulation of Bcl-2 expression in vivo. Oligonucleotides and cisplatin were administered systemically in a human gastric cancer SCID mouse model, and Bcl-2 expression, apoptosis, tumor size, and survival were assessed. Used alone, G3139 treatment led to downregulation of Bcl-2 and moderate tumor reduction compared to saline control. G3139 combined with cisplatin treatment markedly enhanced the antitumor effect of cisplatin (70% tumor size reduction vs. cisplatin alone), associated with increased apoptosis measured in tumor biopsy specimens. Combined treatment with G3139 and cisplatin prolonged survival of the tumor-bearing SCID mice by more than 50% without adding significant drug-related toxicity. Treatment with Bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotides is thus a promising novel approach to enhance antitumor activity of cisplatin or other drugs used in gastric cancer therapy and warrants further evaluation in clinical trials.
Use of a sentinel host system to study the questing behavior of Ixodes spinipalpis and its role in the transmission of Borrelia bissettii, human granulocytic ehrlichiosis, and Babesia microti.	Ixodes spinipalpis maintains Borrelia bissettii spirochetes in Colorado in a cycle involving wood rats and deer mice. This tick has been described as nidicolous, remaining either attached to its rodent hosts or in the rodent nest. Nidicolous ticks pose little risk of pathogen transmission to humans if they do not actively quest for hosts. To investigate the questing potential of I. spinipalpis, sentinel mice were placed in an area where I. spinipalpis had been commonly found on wood rats and deer mice. Concurrently, wild rodent populations were trapped and analyzed for Lyme disease spirochetes, the agent of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis (aoHGE), and Babesia microti. A total of 122 I. spinipalpis larvae and 10 nymphs were found on 19% of 244 sentinel mice. In addition, 4 sentinel mice became infested with Malaraeus telchinus or Orchopeas neotomae fleas. Questing I. spinipalpis were positively associated with woody shrubs and negatively associated with sunny and grassy areas. Four sentinel mice became infected with aoHGE after having been fed upon only by I. spinipalpis larvae. One sentinel mouse became infected with B. bissettii after having an I. spinipalpis nymph feed on it, and one sentinel mouse became coinfected with aoHGE and B. bissettii after it was fed upon by a single I. spinipalpis nymph. These sentinel mouse conversions suggest the possibility that the aoHGE is transovarially transmitted by I. spinipalpis, and that I. spinipalpis is capable of simultaneously transmitting B. bissettii and the aoHGE. The findings that I. spinipalpis quest away from rodent nests and will attach to and infect sentinel mice may be of public health importance. It suggests the potential transmission of the agents of human granulocytic ehrlichiosis and Lyme disease to other hosts by I. spinipalpis, in regions of the western United States where Ixodes pacificus is not found.
Experimental study of combined treatment with tacrolimus and donor splenocytes via the portal vein in small bowel transplantation.	We previously reported that the combined treatment of perioperative administration of donor splenocytes via the recipient's portal vein (DSPV) and a short-course Tacrolimus significantly prolonged the survival of fully allogenic grafts in rat small bowel transplantation (SBTX). In the present study we examined whether this effect depended on the quantity of the administered alloantigens in DSPV. In addition, we examined the expression of the surface antigen on T cells of the splenocytes and the induced toleragenic factor, according to the tolerant recipients which in our previous report had shown the prolongation of allogenic transplant small bowel graft survival by the combined treatment of DSPV (1 x 10(8) donor splenocytes) and a short-course Tacrolimus. Donor splenocytes were prepared from Brown-Norway (BN (RT1n)) rat spleens for Lewis (LEW (RT1l)) recipients. The recipients (n = 10), treated with a short course of Tacrolimus (0.5 mg/kg, 0 to 3 days postoperatively) only showed graft rejection with an average of 6.3 +/- 1.0 days postoperatively. However, the combined treatment, consisting of DSPV of 1 x 10(8) donor splenocytes and a short course Tacrolimus significantly prolonged graft survival to 12.7 +/- 2.1 days (n = 12, P < 0.01). DSPV of less than 1 x 10(8) donor splenocytes (5 x 10(7) cells and 2.5 x 10(7)) could not prolong the graft or animal survival under a short-course Tacrolimus treatment. In the tolerant recipients, the CD4 and CD8 percentages of splenocytes were not significantly different from those of control rats or recipients that were treated with short-course Tacrolimus alone. Nevertheless, the percentage of Tcr-alpha beta+ cells expressing IL-2 receptor (R) was significantly lower than in either control rats or the recipients with short-course Tacrolimus. In the suppression assay to one-way mixed lymphocyte response, a toleragenic factor was suggested to the present in the serum of the tolerant recipients. In the present study, it was suggested that the effects of the combined treatment of DSPV and short-course Tacrolimus for the prolongation of graft survival in the rat allogenic SBTX should depended on the quantity of the antigens administered into the portal vein. The beneficial effects of this treatment were reflected in the suppression of IL-2R on the recipient's splenocytes, and tolerogenic factor(s) might subsequently be induced in the tolerant recipient's serum.
Hematopoietic switch from lymphoid to granulocytic development in 3LL tumor-bearing mice.	A significant splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy develops during the progressive growth of Lewis Lung (3LL) tumors in mice. Enlarged spleen and lymph nodes occur because of a pronounced increase in granulocytes in these organs. This granulocytosis in spleen and lymph node was not simply due to recruitment of granulocytes from peripheral blood to spleen and lymph nodes, but also a result of development and/or differentiation of granulocytes from the bone marrow. There was a marked increase in development of myeloid lineage cells, whereas lymphoid populations including T cells and B cells, were dramatically decreased in bone marrow and peripheral blood of 3LL tumor-bearing mice. These data demonstrate that host hematopoiesis shifts from lymphoid to granulocytic development in the 3LL tumor-bearing mice. Interestingly, a somatic mutation of N-Ras gene was found in 3LL tumor cells at codon 61, suggesting that mutated N-Ras may contribute to induction of granulocytosis in 3LL tumor-bearing mice.
Pathogenicity of Leucocytozoon caulleryi for specific pathogen-free laying hens.	The pathogenicity of Leucocytozoon caulleryi against specific-pathogen-free laying hens was investigated. Many large schizonts (second-generation schizonts) of L. caulleryi were seen in the ovary and oviducts of chickens. Edema and pressure atrophy of the adjacent tissues were associated with these schizonts. The eggshell-secreting portion of the uterus exhibited the most severe damage in the oviduct. This experiment reconfirms that L. caulleryi may stop egg production in laying hens, presumably as a result of damage to ovaries and oviducts.
Regulation of murine intestinal inflammation by reactive metabolites of oxygen and nitrogen: divergent roles of superoxide and nitric oxide.	Several reports have implicated reactive oxygen and nitrogen metabolites (RONS) in the initiation and/or progression of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). We have investigated the role of three key RONS-metabolizing enzymes (inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS], superoxide dismutase [SOD], nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate [NADPH] oxidase) in a murine model of IBD. Mice genetically deficient ((-/-)) in either iNOS or the p47phox subunit of NADPH oxidase, transgenic (Tg) mice that overexpress SOD, and their respective wild-type (WT) littermates were fed dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in drinking water for 7 days to induce colitis. In addition, the specific iNOS inhibitor 1400W was used in DSS-treated WT and p47phox(-/-) mice. WT mice responded to DSS feeding with progressive weight loss, bloody stools, elevated serum NO(X) and colonic mucosal injury with neutrophil infiltration. Both the onset and severity of colitis were significantly attenuated in iNOS(-/-) and 1400W-treated WT mice. While the responses to DSS did not differ between WT and p47phox(-/-) mice, enhanced protection was noted in 1400W-treated p47phox(-/-) mice. Interestingly, SOD(Tg) mice exhibited more severe colitis than their WT littermates. These findings reveal divergent roles for superoxide and iNOS-derived NO in intestinal inflammation.
Effects of ethylene glycol and metabolites on in vitro development of rat embryos during organogenesis.	The aim of this study was to investigate in vitro the relative impact of ethylene glycol, a major industrial chemical, and its individual metabolites on the embryonic development of rats. Rat whole embryos were exposed for 48 h (day 9.5-11.5 of gestation) to ethylene glycol (EG) and its metabolites glycolaldehyde (GAl), glycolic acid (GA), glyoxylic acid (GXA), glyoxale (GXAl) and oxalic acid (OXA) at increasing concentrations. Embryotoxic concentrations were achieved within the following range: ethylene glycol (100-200 mM), glycolic acid (3 mM), glyoxal (6 mM), oxalic acid (1-3 mM), glyoxylic acid (0.3-1 mM), glycolaldehyde (0.1-0.2 mM). The pattern of dysmorphogenesis with all compounds including EG showed a general embryotoxicity with diffusely distributed cell necroses with no specific target tissues selectively affected. The results obtained in this study emphasize the hypothesis that the metabolites and not ethylene glycol itself are responsible for the embryotoxicity of ethylene glycol in rats.
Uptake of apoptotic leukocytes by synovial lining macrophages inhibits immune complex-mediated arthritis.	Previously we have shown that synovial lining macrophages (SLMs) determine the onset of experimental immune complex-mediated arthritis (ICA). During joint inflammation, many leukocytes undergo apoptosis, and removal of leukocytes by SLMs may regulate resolution of inflammation. In this study we investigated binding and uptake of apoptotic leukocytes by SLMs and its impact on the onset of murine experimental arthritis. We used an in vitro model to evaluate phagocytosis of apoptotic cells on chemotaxis. Phagocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes resulted in a significant decrease (58%) of chemotactic activity for polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs). If apoptotic cells were injected directly into a normal murine knee joint, SLMs resulted in a prominent uptake of cells. After ICA induction, electron micrographs showed that apoptotic leukocytes were evidently present in SLMs on days 1 and 2. Injection of apoptotic leukocytes into the knee joint 1 h before induction of ICA significantly inhibited PMN infiltration into the knee joint at 24 h (61% decrease). This study indicates that uptake of apoptotic leukocytes by SLM reduces chemotactic activity and inhibits the onset of experimental arthritis. These findings indicate an important mechanism in the resolution of joint inflammation.
Increased nitric oxide production by airway cells of sensitized and challenged IL-10 knockout mice.	The anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10 suppresses inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS); therefore, NO production should increase in the absence of IL-10. Production of NO (as nitrite) by bronchoalveolar lavage cells of IL-10 knockout ((-/-)) mice was assessed after ovalbumin sensitization and airway challenge (S/C) and was compared with the IL-10-sufficient, wild-type (WT) C57Bl6. Eosinophil recruitment occurred in S/C WT and IL-10(-/-) mice, suggesting allergic airway inflammation. Alveolar macrophages (per g mouse) were unchanged (approximately 3x10(4) cells) with the exception of a doubling in the S/C IL-10(-/-) mice (approximately 6x10(4) cells, P<0.05). NO production (per million cells) was doubled in cells from S/C IL-10(-/-) (15.3 microM) mice compared with WT (7.6 microM, P<0.05). Inhibition of iNOS by L-N(5)-(1-iminoethyl)-ornithine reduced NO production in all S/C mice, confirming that the increase was a result of up-regulation of iNOS. We conclude that IL-10 is a critical cytokine regulating iNOS in murine airway cells and that its absence can lead to up-regulation of iNOS and development of allergic airway inflammation.
Experimental infection of cats with Tritrichomonas foetus.	To determine whether infection with Tritrichomonas foetus causes diarrhea in specific-pathogen-free or Cryptosporidium coinfected cats.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii in the milk of experimentally infected lactating cats.	Tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii have been found in the milk of sheep, goats, cows and mice and infection by ingestion of raw goat milk has been documented in humans. Lactational transmission from infected cats to their kittens is suspected but the organism has not been detected in the milk. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the presence of T. gondii in the milk of experimentally infected cats. Pregnant specific pathogen free cats were inoculated orally with T. gondii at various times prior to parturition. Feces were examined for oocyst shedding after sugar solution centrifugation. Milk was collected for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and bioassay in mice. T. gondii was detected in the milk of five of six cats by either bioassay or PCR.
Antitumor efficacy in vitro and in vivo of falconensones, a new type of polyene.	Falconensones A and B are new type of yellow pigment isolated from the mycelial extract of ascomycetous fungi, Emericella falconensis. To date, these falconensones and their derivatives, falconensone A p-bromophenylhydrazone and falconensone A dioxime are known to exhibit biological activities, which include growth inhibition and both induction of differentiation and apoptosis of HL60 human leukemia cells. The synthetic derivatives have been shown to be more potent than natural falconensone A and B in eliciting these activities. Herein, we investigate whether falconensones inhibit growth of other cancer cell lines in vitro, and we evaluate their ability to modify survival in C57 BL/6J mice using M5076 murine reticulosarcoma in vivo, which is established as the metastasis model. Falconensone A, falconensone A p-bromophenylhydrazone, and falconensone A dioxime inhibit growth of human myeloid leukemia cell lines, HL60 and HL60R, human hepatoma cell line HepG2, human prostate cancer cell line DU-145, and human breast cancer cell line MCF-7/Adr(R), whereas falconensone B, the 4'-nor-methyl derivative of falconensone A, shows extremely low or no activity. In contrast, all of the falconensones are active in growth inhibition of human breast cancer cell line MCF-7. Survival time of M5076-implanted mice was prolonged by treatment with falconensones, particularly falconensone A dioxime. These results indicate that falconensone A and its derivatives exhibit anticancer efficacy in a broad spectrum of cancer cell lines. These agents may have great potential for clinical use in the treatment of various cancers.
In vitro recognition and impairment of pig islet cells by baboon immune cells: similarity to human cellular reactions.	Grafting pig islets into patients with type 1 diabetes requires control of the strong cellular xenogeneic rejection. This in vitro study compared the cellular reaction of baboons and humans to pig islet cells (PICs) to confirm the validity of using these animals for further in vivo preclinical trials.
Dendritic cell-tumor coculturing vaccine can induce antitumor immunity through both NK and CTL interaction.	Immunization of dendritic cells (DC) pulsed with tumor antigen can activate tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) that are responsible for protection and regression. We show here that immunization with bone marrow-derived DC cocultured with tumor cells can induce a protective immunity against challenges to viable tumor cells. In this study, we further investigated the mechanism by which the antitumor activity was induced. Immunization of mice with DC cocultured with murine colon carcinoma. CT-26 cells, augmented CTL activity against the tumor cells. Concomitantly, an increase in natural killer (NK) cell activity was also detected in the same mice. When DC were fixed with paraformaldehyde prior to coculturing with tumor cells, most of the CTL and NK cell activity diminished, indicating that DC are involved in the process of presenting the tumor antigen(s) to CTL. NK cell depletion in vivo produced markedly low tumor-specific CTL activity responsible for tumor prevention. In addition, RT-PCR analysis confirmed the high expression of INF-gamma mRNA in splenocytes after vaccination with DC cocultured with tumors, but low expression in splenocytes from NK-depleted mice. Most importantly, the tumor protective effect rendered to DC by the coculturing with CT-26 cells was not observed in NK-depleted mice, which suggests that DC can induce an antitumor immune response by enhancing NK cell-dependent CTL activation. Collectively, our results indicate that NK cells are required during the priming of cytotoxic T-cell response by DC-based tumor vaccine and seem to delineate a mechanism by which DC vaccine can provide the desired immunity.
Hypoxia reduces alveolar epithelial sodium and fluid transport in rats: reversal by beta-adrenergic agonist treatment.	In cultured alveolar epithelial cells, hypoxia induces a downregulation of the two main Na proteins, the epithelial Na channel (ENaC) and the Na,K-ATPase. However, the in vivo effects of hypoxia on alveolar epithelial transport have not been well studied. Therefore, the objectives of this study were to investigate in an in vivo rat model if hypoxia induces a reduction in vectorial Na and fluid transport across the alveolar epithelium in vivo, and if a change in net fluid transport is associated with modification in the expression and/or activity of Na transport proteins. Rats were exposed to 8% O(2) from 3 to 24 h. Hypoxia induced a progressive decrease in alveolar liquid clearance (ALC) reaching 50% at 24 h, an effect that was related primarily to a decrease in amiloride-sensitive transepithelial Na transport. On RNase protection assay of alveolar type II (ATII) cells isolated immediately after hypoxic exposure, steady state levels of mRNA were increased for alpha-rENaC and beta(1)-Na, K-ATPase, whereas the levels of gamma-rENaC and alpha(1)-Na,K-ATPase were unchanged. On Western blots of ATII cell membranes, alpha-ENaC subunit protein slightly increased, whereas the amount of alpha(1)- and beta(1)-Na,K-ATPase protein were unchanged with hypoxia. Thus, the decrease in transepithelial Na transport was not explained by a parallel change in gene expression or the quantity of transport proteins. Interestingly, hypoxia-induced decrease in ALC was completely reversed by intra-alveolar administration of the beta(2) agonist, terbutaline (10(-4) M). These results suggest that hypoxia-induced decrease in Na transport is not simply related to a downregulation of Na transport proteins but rather to a decrease in Na protein activity by either internalization of the proteins and/or direct alteration of the protein in the membrane. The dramatic increase of ALC with beta(2)-agonist therapy indicates that the decrease of transepithelial Na and fluid transport during hypoxia is rapidly reversible, a finding of major clinical significance.
Therapeutic effect of idiotype-specific CD4+ T cells against B-cell lymphoma in the absence of anti-idiotypic antibodies.	Immunoglobulin (Ig) variable (V) region idiotypes (Id's) are highly tumor-specific antigens produced by B-lymphoma cells and are promising targets for immunotherapy. Id vaccination has proven effective in experimental mouse models and may possibly prevent recurrence of B lymphomas in humans. It has previously been shown that anti-Id antibodies protect against B-cell lymphoma in the absence of T cells. We here demonstrate in a T-cell-receptor transgenic mouse model that the contrary is also true: Id-specific CD4+ T cells can protect against Id+ B-lymphoma cells in the absence of B cells, antibodies, and CD8+ T cells. Moreover, Id-specific CD4+ T cells have a curative potential since they could be transferred as late as 17 days after subcutaneous tumor cell injection of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice and still abrogate tumor development in about 50% of mice. Such mice undergo an acute inflammatory swelling with infiltration of neutrophils at the site of tumor injection, which subsides over weeks, with some mice cured and delayed emergence of lymphomas in other mice. Adoptively transferred CD4+ T cells accumulated in the tumor and were activated (CD69+). In vitro experiments demonstrated that memory, but not naive, Id-specific CD4+ T cells kill Id+ B-lymphoma cells. The results show that Id-specific CD4+ T cells, in the absence of antibodies home to subcutaneous Id+ B lymphoma, become activated, induce inflammation, and prevent tumor development.
Effect of isolated removal of either basolateral HCO-3 or basolateral CO2 on HCO-3 reabsorption by rabbit S2 proximal tubule.	The equilibrium CO2+H2O right arrow over left arrow H++HCO3- had made it impossible to determine how isolated changes in basolateral CO2 ([CO2]) or HCO3- concentration ([HCO3-]), at a fixed basolateral pH, modulate renal HCO3- or reabsorption. In the present study, we have begun to address this issue by measuring HCO3- reabsorption (JHCO3) and intracellular pH (pHi) in isolated perfused rabbit S2 proximal tubules exposed to three different basolateral (bath) solutions: 1) equilibrated 5% CO2/22 mM HCO3-/pH 7.40, 2) an out-of-equilibrium (OOE) solution containing 5% CO2/pH 7.40 but minimal HCO3- ("pure CO2"), and 3) an OOE solution containing 22 mM HCO3-/pH 7.40 but minimal CO2 ("pure HCO3-"). Tubule lumens were constantly perfused with equilibrated 5% CO2/22 mM HCO3-. Compared with the equilibrated bath solution (JHCO3 = 76.5 +/- 7.7 pmol.min-1.mm-1, pHi = 7.09 +/- 0.04), the pure CO2 bath solution increased JHCO3 by approximately 25% but decreased pHi by 0.19. In contrast, the pure HCO3- bath solution decreased JHCO3 by 37% but increased pHi by 0.24. Our data are consistent with two competing hypotheses: 1) the isolated removal of basolateral HCO3- (or CO2) causes a pHi decrease (increase) that in turn raises (lowers) JHCO3; and 2) HCO3- removal raises JHCO3 by reducing inhibition of basolateral Na/HCO3 cotransport and/or reducing HCO3- backleak, whereas CO2 removal lowers JHCO3 by reducing stimulation of a CO2 sensor.
Biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of 111In-dTPA-labelled pegylated liposomes after intraperitoneal injection.	The biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of 111In-DTPA-labelled pegylated liposomes (IDLPL) and unencapsulated 111In-DTPA administered by the intraperitoneal (i.p.) and i.v. routes in non-tumour-bearing mice were compared. Mice received i.p. or i.v. injections of 0.37 MBq 111In-DTPA either encapsulated in liposomes or as an unencapsulated agent. A variety of tissues were dissected from 5 min to 192 h to determine the biodistribution and pharmacokinetics. Injection of IDLPL via the i.p. route caused a 74-fold increase in the area under the concentration (AUC) versus time curve in the peritoneum compared to unencapsulated 111In-DTPA. Similarly, the AUC for all the intra-abdominal tissues was increased significantly (20-427-fold). When i.p. IDLPLs were compared directly with i.v. IDLPLs, more modest changes were seen. There were increases in AUC for peritoneum (1.4-fold), ovary (1.3-fold), stomach (2.9-fold), pancreas (3.6-fold). small intestine (1.5-fold). colon (1.2-fold), gallbladder (5.1-fold) and adrenal gland (2.1-fold). These data support the development of i.p. liposomal chemotherapy for the treatment of intraperitoneal malignant disease.
Lipoteichoic acid from Staphylococcus aureus enhances allergen-specific immunoglobulin E production in mice.	Our previous study demonstrated that lipoteichoic acid (LTA) from Staphylococcus aureus induced T helper type 2 (Th2)-prone dermatitis resembling that seen in atopic dermatitis (AD) patients in mice sensitized percutaneously with an allergen. However, the effects of LTA on allergen-specific IgE production in such sensitized mice have not been elucidated.
ATP binding cassette transporter gene expression in rat liver progenitor cells.	Liver regeneration after severe liver damage depends in part on proliferation and differentiation of hepatic progenitor cells (HPCs). Under these conditions they must be able to withstand the toxic milieu of the damaged liver. ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters are cytoprotective efflux pumps that may contribute to the preservation of these cells. The aim of this study was to determine the ABC transporter phenotype of HPCs.
Pre-exposure treatment of cats with anti-FHV-1 and anti-FCV mouse-cat chimeric antibodies.	Prior to pre-exposure treatment of cats with two mouse-cat chimeric antibodies, FJH2 and F1D7, having neutralizing activity to feline herpesvirus-1 (FHV-1) and cat calicivirus (FCV), respectively, these chimeric antibodies were labeled with (125)I and administered to cats to examine their blood kinetics. Concentrations of the both administered chimeric antibodies in the blood reached maximum at the 48th hour post-administration, and the level was 34% for FJH2 and 54% for F1D7. Then the concentration levels declined gently, and decreased afterwards to 8.2% for FJH2 and 25% for F1D7 on the 20th day post-administration. The blood half-lives of FJH2 and F1D7 were 8.3 days and 10.7 days, respectively. In order to examine effectiveness in pre-exposure treatment of cats with these chimeric antibodies, cats were administered on the 15th day prior to the challenge infections with FHV-1 and FCV by subcutaneous route with 0.5 ml/kg of an FJH-F1D7 mixture being adjusted to contain each chimeric antibody of 10 mg/ml. The cats that received the pre-exposure treatment with the cocktail, showed obvious reductions in manifestations of symptoms caused by those viral infections. The protective effectiveness of the pre-exposure treatment against these viral challenge infections was almost equal to that of the treatment given at right after these challenge infections.
In vitro and in vivo efficacy of alpha-cyclodextrin for treatment of experimental cryptosporidiosis.	The efficacy of alpha-cyclodextrin against infection by Cryptosporidium parvum was evaluated using in vitro and in vivo models. Cyclodextrins are water-soluble cyclic hexamers of glucose units with hydrophobic cavities capable of solubilizing lipophiles and are widely used as drug excipients in the pharmaceutical industry. The viability of purified C. parvum oocysts, exposed for 30, 60, 90, 120 min and 24h to different concentrations of alpha-cyclodextrin (2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 12.5 and 15%), was evaluated by inclusion or exclusion of two fluorogenic vital dyes and by an excystation technique. Preventive and curative efficacies against cryptosporidial infections, at different doses (2.5 and 5%) and regimes of administration of alpha-cyclodextrin, were determined in an experimental neonatal mice model. Results of the viability assay showed a decrease in oocyst viability that was associated with an increase in exposure time, for each of the concentrations used. Moreover, a high proportion of nonviable oocysts (81%) was observed when C. parvum oocysts were exposed to alpha-cyclodextrin (2.5%) for 24h. The intensity of infection, determined 7 days post-inoculation by examination of intestinal homogenates, was significantly lower (P<0.05) than in the control litters, for all the assays carried out with alpha-cyclodextrin. Only 38.8% of the animals became infected when the alpha-cyclodextrin solution (5%) was administered 2h before inoculated oocysts, and every 24h at 1 and 2 days post-inoculation.
Humoral immunity and reinfection resistance in dogs experimentally inoculated with Babesia canis and either treated or untreated with imidocarb dipropionate.	It is proposed that the chronic asymptomatic carrier state produced by Babesia canis infection could make dogs more resistant against subsequent infections. This suggests that treatment with imidocarb dipropionate, which removes the organism, can make dogs more susceptible to reinfection in a short period of time. Ten male and female dogs of approximately 4-5 months of age were inoculated with B. canis. Half of them received treatment with imidocarb dipropionate (7 mg/kg) on days 15 and 27 post-infection and the other half were untreated. All the animals were examined using clinical and laboratory methods (CBC, platelet counts and serological study by indirect immunofluorescence test) for a 6-month period. Antibodies were first detected on day 7 post-injection and remained at high levels (1:2560) over the period in the non-treated group. This result was significantly different (P<0.001) from the treated group in which antibodies titers declined after day 34 post-infection. Six months later, after a homologous challenge infection only the dogs of treated group showed parasitaemia, thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly, which was significantly different (P<0.05) from the non-treated group. The sterilizing treatment with imidocarb dipropionate was effective in clearing the infection, but inhibited the maintenance of protective antibodies, making the animals more susceptible to reinfection.
Immunostimulatory oligonucleotide, CpG-like motif exists in Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus NIAI B6.	The present study was conducted to find an immunostimulatory oligonucleotide derived from yogurt starter cultures. The chromosomal DNA was purified from nine strains of Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus and six strains of Streptococcus thermophilus. An immunostimulatory ability of the DNA was examined in a proliferation of peyer's patch and splenic B cells. Only the DNA from L. bulgaricus NIAI B6 induced a significant proliferation of both cells. When the DNA was cloned and amplified using PCR, the mitogenic activities to B cells were significantly increased by 13 of 135 DNA clones. Ten homologous nucleotide sequences were found as possible oligonucleotide sequences of mitogens, and were then chemically synthesized (sOL-LB1 to sOL-LB10). One CpG-like motif (sOL-LB7; 5'-CGGCACGCTCACGATTCTTG-3') was identified as an immunostimulatory oligonucleotide, but it did not contain palindromic CpG structure known as a B cell-specific mitogen. The sOL-LB7 substantially bound to B cells and increased the CD69 positive cells in peyer's patch cells. This study demonstrated that L. bulgaricus NIAI B6 was a good candidate of a starter culture for the production of new functional foods, "Bio-Defense Foods".
A telomerase-dependent conditionally replicating adenovirus for selective treatment of cancer.	The catalytic component of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is not expressed in most primary somatic human cells, whereas the majority of cancer cells reactivate telomerase by transcriptional up-regulation of hTERT. Several studies demonstrated that the hTERT promoter can be used to restrict gene expression of E1-deleted replication defective adenoviral vectors to telomerase-positive cancer cells. In this study, a conditionally replicating adenovirus (hTERT-Ad) expressing E1A genes under control of a 255-bp hTERT-promoter was constructed. Additionally, an internal ribosomal entry site-enhanced green fluorescent protein cassette was inserted downstream of the E1B locus to monitor viral replication in vivo. Adenoviral replication of hTERT-Ad and enhancement of enhanced green fluorescent protein expression could be observed in all investigated telomerase-positive tumor cell lines. In contrast, hTERT-Ad infection of telomerase-negative primary human hepatocytes did not result in significant replication. The capability of hTERT-Ad to induce cytopathic effects in tumor cells was comparable with that of adenovirus wild type and significantly higher compared with ONYX-015, regardless of the p53 status of the tumor cells. Single application of low-dose hTERT-Ad to tumor xenografts led to significant inhibition of tumor growth, confirming the potential therapeutic value of conditionally replicative adenoviral vectors. These in vivo experiments also revealed that hTERT-Ad-mediated oncolysis was more efficient than ONYX-015 treatment. These results demonstrate that expression of E1A under transcriptional control of the hTERT promoter is sufficient for effective telomerase-dependent adenovirus replication as a promising perspective for the treatment of the majority of epithelial tumors.
Suppressed complement activation in human decay accelerating factor transgenic porcine liver cross-circulated with nonhuman primates.	We developed an extracorporeal liver perfusion (ECLP) system as a liver-assist device. In this study, we evaluated the safety of the ECLP using human decay accelerating factor (hDAF) transgenic porcine livers in healthy baboons.
Competitive exclusion by Bacillus subtilis spores of Salmonella enterica serotype Enteritidis and Clostridium perfringens in young chickens.	Cost effective control of avian diseases and food borne pathogens remains a high priority for all sectors of the poultry industry with cleansing and disinfection, vaccination and competitive exclusion approaches being used widely. Previous studies showed that Bacillus subtilis PY79(hr) was an effective competitive exclusion agent for use in poultry to control avian pathogenic Escherichia coli serotype O78:K80. Here we report experiments that were undertaken to test the efficacy of B. subtilis PY79(hr) in the control of Salmonella enterica serotype Enteritidis and Clostridium perfringens in young chickens. To do this, 1-day-old and 20-day-old specific pathogen free (SPF) chicks were dosed with a suspension of B. subtilis spores prior to challenge with S. Enteritidis (S1400) and C. perfringens, respectively. For both challenge models, a single oral inoculum of 1x10(9) spores given 24h prior to challenge was sufficient to suppress colonisation and persistence of both S. Enteritidis and C. perfringens. In particular, the faecal shedding of S. Enteritidis, as measured by a semi-quantitative cloacal swabbing technique, was reduced significantly for the 36 days duration of the experiment. B. subtilis persisted in the intestine although with decreasing numbers over the same period. These data add further evidence that B. subtilis spores may be effective agents in the control of avian diseases and food borne pathogens.
Identification of the beta cell antigen targeted by a prevalent population of pathogenic CD8+ T cells in autoimmune diabetes.	Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease in which autoreactive T cells attack and destroy the insulin-producing pancreatic beta cells. CD8+ T cells are essential for this beta cell destruction, yet their specific antigenic targets are largely unknown. Here, we reveal that the autoantigen targeted by a prevalent population of pathogenic CD8+ T cells in nonobese diabetic mice is islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit-related protein (IGRP). Through tetramer technology, IGRP-reactive T cells are readily detected in islets and peripheral blood directly ex vivo. The human IGRP gene maps to a diabetes susceptibility locus, suggesting that IGRP also may be an antigen for pathogenic T cells in human type 1 diabetes and, thus, a new, potential target for diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.
Sensitive visualization of peptide presentation in vitro and ex vivo.	The presentation of antigenic peptides to specific T cells is one of the key events for the induction of a T-cell-dependent immune response. The nature of the antigen-presenting cells which present distinct peptides has been difficult to analyze so far due to the low number of peptides presented in vivo by a single antigen-presenting cell.
Suramin selectively inhibits carcinoma cell growth that is dependent on extracellular polyamines.	Polyamines are necessary for tumour cell growth. Inhibition of endogenous polyamine biosynthesis results in compensatory up-regulation of polyamine uptake. Here, the combined effect of suramin and the polyamine biosynthesis inhibitor alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) on human carcinoma cell proliferation was studied. Suramin selectively inhibited the growth of tumour cells made dependent on extracellular polyamines by DFMO-treatment. In an animal tumour model, low non-toxic doses of suramin resulted in a 2-fold increase in DFMO tumour growth reduction. Moreover, suramin bound strongly to polyamine-agarose and significantly inhibited polyamine uptake in DFMO-treated cells. Our results indicate that non-toxic doses of suramin augment tumour growth inhibition by DFMO, and that a combination of these well-studied anticancer drugs may represent an additional strategy for cancer treatment.
Effect of PKC412, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, on spontaneous metastatic model mice.	We investigated the anti-metastatic effect of PKC412, a selective inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC), on a spontaneous metastatic mouse model, which was prepared by inoculation with B16-BL6 mouse melanoma cells into the footpad of the right hind leg. At two weeks after inoculation, the primary tumor was amputated completely. PKC412 (200 mg/kg) administered orally for four weeks after the tumor inoculation, significantly prolonged survival compared with the control. Furthermore, to elucidate the mechanism of the anti-metastatic effect of PKC412, we examined the growth rate of B16-BL6 cells premixed with Matrigel in vivo and the invasiveness of B16-BL6 cells using a chemo-invasion chamber in vitro. PKC412 significantly reduced the growth rate of cells in vivo (100 and 200 mg/kg) and the invading cells in vitro (10, 30 and 100 nM) in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, PKC412 exerts an anti-metastatic action through inhibition of the invasiveness of melanoma cells in the extracellular matrix.
CSF 5-HIAA concentration as an early screening tool for predicting significant life history outcomes in female specific-pathogen-free (SPF) rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) maintained in captive breeding groups.	We examined relationships among cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the major serotonin metabolite (5-HIAA, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid) and significant medical and behavioral outcomes for female rhesus macaques. Based on earlier findings with males we predicted that low CSF 5-HIAA concentrations would be associated with a range of negative life history outcomes in our captive specific-pathogen-free (SPF) breeding colony. We found that the mean CSF 5-HIAA concentration among animals that died over the course of the study period was significantly lower than among animals that survived. Further examination indicated an inverse relationship between CSF 5-HIAA concentration and number of treatments for illness, further suggesting a link between serotonergic functioning and overall animal health. Examination of behavioral data indicated that individuals with low CSF 5-HIAA concentrations were more often the targets of aggressive bouts than were individuals with high CSF 5-HIAA concentrations. Finally, we found a positive relationship between CSF 5-HIAA concentration and infant survivorship. These results suggest negative life history consequences of impaired serotonergic functioning in captive female rhesus macaques, and indicate that CSF 5-HIAA concentration sampled early in life may provide a useful tool in facilitating colony management decisions concerning utilization of scarce and increasingly valuable non-human primate resources.
Efficacy of a new tetravalent coryza vaccine against emerging variant type B strains.	Outbreaks of infectious coryza have been reported in vaccinated flocks in different countries, indicating that new serotype(s) of Haemophilus paragallinarum may have evolved. Several field isolates from vaccinated flocks in the US, Ecuador, Argentina and Zimbabwe were examined and, apart from one serotype C strain, all were typed as serotype B. An inactivated commercial trivalent vaccine, containing serotypes A, B and C, protected against challenge with the serotype C isolate but protection against challenge with serotype B isolates was weaker, suggesting that they might represent a new variant immunotype. An experimental tetravalent oil adjuvant vaccine, containing one of the serotype B isolates, appeared immunogenic against all isolates after one vaccination. Its efficacy and safety were further tested in layer chickens housed under field conditions. Chickens were vaccinated at 8 and 16 weeks of age while controls were unvaccinated. Vaccinates and controls were challenged with type A, B, C and variant type B at 25, 45 or 65 weeks of age. There was good protection (P<0.05) against all four immunotypes after all challenges. No systemic reactions were observed and local reactions were similar to those found with the commercial trivalent vaccine. The tetravalent vaccine may therefore be a good choice for control of new field isolates.
Inhibition of hepatitis B virus replication in vivo by nucleoside analogues and siRNA.	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) causes acute and chronic infections that may result in severe liver diseases. Animal models to study new treatment options in vivo have several drawbacks. Therefore, we were interested to establish a new small animal model in which HBV replication and especially new treatment options can be studied easily.
Bacteroides vulgatus protects against Escherichia coli-induced colitis in gnotobiotic interleukin-2-deficient mice.	The microflora plays a crucial role in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). Specific pathogen-free (SPF), but not germ-free, interleukin (IL)-2-deficient (IL-2-/-) mice develop colitis. The colitogenicity of commensal bacteria was determined.
T-cell immune response assessment as a complement to serology and intranasal protection assays in determining the protective immunity induced by acellular pertussis vaccines in mice.	The relative value of antibodies and/or T-cell immune responses to Bordetella pertussis antigens in the immunity induced by acellular pertussis (aP) vaccines is still an open issue, probably due to the incomplete knowledge on the mechanisms of protective immunity to pertussis. The relevance of T-cell immune responses in protection from pertussis has been demonstrated in murine and human models of infection; thus, in this study, the ability of different vaccine preparations of three component (pertussis toxin, filamentous hemagglutinin, and pertactin) aP vaccines to induce T-cell responses was investigated in mice. All vaccine preparations examined passed the immunogenicity control test, based on antibody titer assessment, according to European Pharmacopoeia standards, and protected mice from B. pertussis intranasal challenge, but not all preparations were able to prime T cells to pertussis toxin, the specific B. pertussis antigen. In particular, one vaccine preparation was unable to induce proliferation and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) production while the other two gave borderline results. The evaluation of T-cell responses to pertussis toxin antigen may provide information on the protective immunity induced by aP vaccines in animal models. Considering the critical role of the axis interleukin-12-IFN-gamma for protection from pertussis, our results suggest that testing the induction of a key protective cytokine such as IFN-gamma could be an additional tool for the evaluation of the immune response induced by aP vaccines.
Immune responses against Salmonella enterica serovar enteritidis infection in virally immunosuppressed chickens.	To understand the role of immune mechanisms in protecting chickens from Salmonella infections, we examined the immune responses of Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis-infected chickens and the effect of chicken anemia virus (CAV), a T-cell-targeted virus, on S. enterica serovar Enteritidis-induced immune responses. One-day-old chicks were orally inoculated with S. enterica serovar Enteritidis with or without intramuscular injection of CAV. The bacterial infection, pathology, and immune responses of chickens were evaluated at 14, 28, and 56 days postinoculation. The infection increased the levels of S. enterica serovar Enteritidis-specific mucosal immunoglobulin A (IgA), the number of gut-associated T cells, and the titer of serum IgG specific for S. enterica serovar Enteritidis surface antigens. CAV infection depressed these immune responses, especially the mucosal immune responses, but did not increase the number of S. enterica serovar Enteritidis-infected cells in the intestine. The severity of pathological lesions appeared to be reciprocal to the level of immune responses, but the S. enterica serovar Enteritidis infection persisted. These results suggest that oral infection of S. enterica serovar Enteritidis in chickens induces both mucosal and systemic immune responses, which have a limited effect on the S. enterica serovar Enteritidis infection under conditions designed to mimic the field situation.
Expression of adhesion molecules in the rectum-associated lymph nodules of pre- and postnatal specific pathogen-free rats.	The developmental process of lymphoid tissues in the gastrointestinal tract is still unclear. The aim of the present study was to explore the expression of adhesion molecule in rectum-associated lymph nodules (RALN) of specific pathogen-free (SPF) rats at fetal and early postnatal periods of development.
Neurotropism of the 1997 Hong Kong H5N1 influenza virus in mice.	The direct transmission of H5N1 influenza A viruses from chickens to humans in Hong Kong in 1997 emphasized the need to have information on the pathogenesis of avian influenza virus infection in mammals. H5N1 influenza viruses isolated from patients during the incident killed experimentally infected mice. The principal lesions of the mice were broncho-interstitial pneumonia and nonsuppurative encephalitis. Infectious viruses and/or viral antigens were detected in the brain as well as in the trigeminal and vagal ganglia but not in the blood of the mice. These findings suggest that the virus reached the brain through the vagus and/or trigeminal nerves following replication in the respiratory mucosa. The results imply that neurotropism of the H5N1 virus in mice is a novel characteristic in the pathogenesis of infection by human influenza virus isolates.
Interleukin 6, serum amyloid A and haptoglobin as markers of treatment efficacy in pigs experimentally infected with Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae.	The possibility to use acute phase proteins to monitor the elimination of a bacterial infection in pigs would facilitate an objective assessment of treatment with various antimicrobial substances. To examine this possibility, the acute phase response (IL-6, serum amyloid A (SAA), and haptoglobin) elicited by Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae and its reduction on treatment with various antibiotics was studied in serum from specific pathogen free (SPF) pigs. Pigs were infected intranasally with A. pleuropneumoniae serotype 2, and either left as non-treated control pigs or treated with different antibiotics intramuscularly at onset of respiratory disease (20h post-infection). Pigs responded to the infection with prominent increases in activity and concentrations of IL-6, SAA, and haptoglobin. These responses were to a certain extent overlapping and covered the time span from a few hours after infection until development of detectable levels of specific antibodies (7-10 days post-infection in untreated pigs). The haptoglobin response lasted until the end of the study on day 17 and thereby partly coincided with the antibody response. Treatment with antimicrobials that effectively reduced establishment of the infection with A. pleuropneumoniae also reduced the duration of all three acute phase responses, and reduced the concentration of serum haptoglobin. In contrast, less efficacious treatments did not reduce these acute phase responses. Thus, acute phase reactants can be applied to monitor therapeutic effects of antimicrobial drugs in the pig and measurements of IL-6, SAA and haptoglobin could add valuable information about the stage of infection during a disease outbreak.
Duration of immunity in dogs vaccinated against leptospirosis with a bivalent inactivated vaccine.	Duration of immunity in dogs induced with current commercial inactivated leptospirosis vaccines and evaluated against experimental infection, to date, has hardly been documented. The purpose of the present work was to assess the duration of immunity in dogs that is attainable with a commercial inactivated bivalent leptospirosis vaccine. For this purpose, young dogs were vaccinated twice followed by challenge with either Leptospira interrogans serovar canicola or L. interrogans serovar icterohaemorrhagiae 5 weeks, 27 weeks or 56 weeks after the second vaccination. For assessment of the duration of immunity, titres of agglutinating serum antibodies were measured before and after challenge, and the effects of challenge on a variety of parameters were determined including reisolation of challenge organisms from blood, urine and kidney. Both challenge strains induced a generalised infection in control dogs, the canicola strain being most virulent. From the results with different parameters it appeared that the two vaccinations induced a high rate of protection from generalised infection with canicola and icterohaemorrhagiae at 5, 27 and 56 weeks after the second vaccination. In addition, after 56 weeks, still a high level of immunity against renal infection with sv. canicola and, as a consequence, urinary shedding of sv. canicola bacteria, was demonstrated. It was, therefore, concluded that with this vaccine, using this vaccination schedule, a duration of immunity of 1 year can be attained against infection with both serovars.
Comparison of the antibody response to transmissible gastroenteritis virus and porcine respiratory coronavirus, using monoclonal antibodies to antigenic sites A and X of the S glycoprotein.	Pigs were inoculated with various strains of transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) or with porcine respiratory coronavirus (PRCV), and antigenic site-specific antibody responses were compared. A blocking-ELISA was used to study to what extent antibodies in convalescent sera interfered with the binding of monoclonal antibodies (MAB) 57.16 or 57.110 to the attenuated TGEV/Purdue virus. Monoclonal antibody 57.16 is directed against the A site on the peplomer, neutralizes virus, and recognizes TGEV and PRCV. Monoclonal antibody 57.110 is directed against the X site on the peplomer, but does not neutralize virus, and recognizes only TGEV. Antibodies directed against TGEV and PRCV could be detected in a blocking ELISA, using MAB 57.16 as a conjugate. Antibodies directed against both viruses were detectable as early as 1 week after inoculation. Antibody titers correlated well with those in a virus-neutralization test. Antibodies against TGEV could be detected in a blocking ELISA, using MAB 57.110 as a conjugate. Such antibodies were not induced by a PRCV infection. In the blocking ELISA, using MAB 57.110 as a conjugate, antibodies were detectable as early as 2 weeks after inoculation. There was a significant difference between antibody titers reached after infection with various TGEV strains, however. This difference is ascribed to a variation of the antigenic site defined by MAB 57.110 in TGEV strains. Conditions for a differential test for TGE serodiagnosis, and for serologic discrimination between TGEV- and PRCV-infected pigs, are discussed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Protection of macaques against infection with simian type D retrovirus (SRV-1) by immunization with recombinant vaccinia virus expressing the envelope glycoproteins of either SRV-1 or Mason-Pfizer monkey virus (SRV-3).	Rhesus macaques were immunized with live vaccinia virus recombinants expressing the envelope glycoproteins (gp70 and gp22) of simian type D retrovirus (SRV), serotype 1 or 3. All of the animals immunized with either the SRV-1 env or the SRV-3 env vaccinia virus recombinant developed neutralizing antibodies against the homologous SRV. In addition, both groups developed cross-reactive antibodies and were protected against an intravenous live-virus challenge with SRV-1. The four control animals immunized with a vaccinia virus recombinant expressing the G protein of respiratory syncytial virus were not protected against the same SRV-1 challenge. Although SRV-1 and SRV-3 immune sera showed cross-neutralization, they failed to neutralize a separate, more distantly related serotype, SRV-2, in an in vitro assay. These findings are consistent with the known degree of serologic and genetic relatedness of these three SRV strains.
Reovirus type 2 in domestic cats: isolation and experimental transmission.	Five reovirus isolates were recovered in MA104 cell cultures from the faeces of three cats with nictitating membrane protrusion and diarrhoea, one cat with diarrhoea only and from one healthy cat. Four of these isolates were characterised as reovirus type 2 and one as reovirus type 3 by haemagglutination-inhibition and serum neutralization tests. Reovirus type 2 has not been reported previously in cats. Mild clinical signs of diarrhoea were noted in kittens infected experimentally with one of the feline reovirus type 2 isolates.
Synchronous appearance of antigen-positive and latently infected neurons in spinal ganglia of mice infected with a virulent strain of herpes simplex virus.	Studies with replication-defective mutants of herpes simplex virus (HSV) have defined the minimum requirements for establishment of latency, but their behaviour may not reflect the course of events following infection by wild-type HSV, in which ability to express viral genes has not been precluded by a genetic lesion. To address this issue we devised a strategy for studying establishment of latency by a virulent strain of HSV, based on the distinctive molecular characteristics of latently infected neurons. By combining in situ hybridization for detection of latency-associated transcripts with immunohistochemical analysis of viral proteins we demonstrate here that antigen-positive and latently infected neurons appear synchronously in spinal ganglia during the earliest stages of acute ganglionic infection. This is consistent with early divergence of the molecular pathways leading to productive and latent infection, supporting and extending the results obtained with viral mutants.
Transmissible gastroenteritis virus antibody production in vitro by porcine peripheral blood leukocytes.	The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the in vitro production of transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV)-specific antibodies by peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) harvested from piglets infected with TGEV. Piglets were infected with the virulent Purdue strain of TGEV and at intervals postinfection their PBL were cultivated in the presence of TGEV antigen, control antigen or pokeweed mitogen (PWM). The culture supernatants were tested for TGEV antibodies by a fixed cell enzyme immunoassay. Antibodies were never found in the supernatants of unprimed PBL cultures from control piglets, nor in cultures stimulated with control antigen, and antibodies were produced more frequently in response to stimulation of primed PBL with viral antigen than with PWM. In PBL cultures stimulated with viral antigen, TGEV antibodies of the IgG class were produced more frequently than IgA class antibodies. Optimal antibody responses were produced by PBL harvested two weeks after infection and cultivated at a concentration of 10(7) cells/mL for five days.
Deposition, clearance, and translocation of chrysotile asbestos from peripheral and central regions of the rat lung.	We investigated the pulmonary deposition, clearance, and translocation of chrysotile asbestos in the context of our previously developed model of asbestosis in the rat. Adult male rats were exposed for 3 hr to an aerosol of chrysotile asbestos. Subgroups were sacrificed up to 29 days postexposure and the lungs of the animals fixed. Peripheral and central regions of the left lung were resected, digested, and analyzed for fiber content by scanning electron microscopy. Pulmonary deposition did not differ between peripheral and central regions. There was no evidence of translocation of fibers from central to peripheral regions. The average diameter of retained fibers decreased over time, consistent with longitudinal splitting. The average length of retained fibers increased over time, consistent with slower clearance of longer fibers. We employed a novel counting scheme to ensure accurate fiber number measurements, allowing the calculation of clearance rates for fibers 0.5 to greater than or equal to 16 microns in length. Fibers of length greater than or equal to 16 microns were cleared slowly, if at all. These findings could have important implications for the pathogenesis of asbestos-related pleural disease. Many fibers are deposited in the peripheral region, and the longest (greater than or equal to 16 microns) will persist there for extended periods.
Detection of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) nucleic acids in FIV-seronegative cats.	A study was undertaken to determine the rate of viral transmission among naive specific-pathogen-free (SPF) cats living in close contact with feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV)-infected cats. Twenty SPF cats were housed in the same rooms with experimentally FIV-infected seropositive and virus culture-positive cats for 2 to 4 years and were monitored for the presence of FIV nucleic acids and antibodies. Only 1 of the 20 cats became seropositive and virus culture positive and developed signs of disease. Genomic DNA from bone marrow and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of 10 of 19 healthy-appearing seronegative cats became positive for FIV DNA by the polymerase chain reaction. Twenty-eight SPF cats housed as groups in separate quarters and never exposed to FIV-infected cats were uniformly negative for FIV DNA. FIV RNA transcripts were detected in concanavalin A-stimulated PBMC cultures from 4 of 10 FIV DNA-positive, seronegative cats by in situ hybridization. PBMC from three of four naive SPF cats acquired FIV nucleic acids after the cats were transfused with blood and bone marrow from FIV genome-positive, seronegative donors. Three of five FIV-seronegative cats housed for years with naturally FIV-infected cats in a private household were also found to harbor FIV DNA, indicating that the same phenomenon occurred in the field. These findings demonstrate that cats living in close contact with FIV-infected seropositive cats can acquire FIV nucleic acids without developing detectable levels of serum antibodies or disease.
The pathogenicity of Ab4p, the sequenced strain of equine herpesvirus-1, in specific pathogen-free foals.	The sequencing of the genome of equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV-1) is reported in Elizabeth A. R. Telford, Moira S. Watson, Kathryn McBride, and Andrew J. Davison, 1992, Virology, 189, 304-316. The sequence was derived using a plaque-purified clone of EHV-1 strain Ab4 (designated Ab4p). To ensure that Ab4p shares the pathogenic characteristics of parental Ab4 (hereafter Ab4), both were inoculated intranasally into foals, specifically free from EHV-1 and EHV-4. Clinical signs, including rectal temperature, were similar for both viruses. In addition, nasal shedding of virus was observed over a 1- to 2-week period postinfection, and viremia was established with both Ab4 and Ab4p. Isolation of virus from one foal following intravenous administration of steroids indicates that Ab4p can establish latency and undergo reactivation. Finally, retinal lesions were observed and these were similar to those seen with Ab4. In conclusion, several pathogenic characteristics of Ab4 are retained in the plaque-purified clone, Ab4p.
Lytic infection of primary rhesus kidney cells by simian virus 40.	In an attempt to analyze the persistent infection of rhesus monkey cells with Simian virus 40 (SV40) in vitro, as described previously (reviewed in L. C. Norkin, Microbiol. Rev. 46, 384-425, 1982), we infected primary rhesus cell cultures (PRK), derived from a SV40-free monkey colony with SV40. Surprisingly, SV40 infected PRK cell cultures released as much infectious virus as cultures of the permissive African green monkey kidney cell line TC7. Infected PRK cells exhibited typical symptoms of a lytic infection, and the bulk of infected PRK cells died within 8 days postinfection (p.i.). A considerable proportion of infected PRK cells exhibited distinct SV40-caused cytopathic effects (CPE), similar to CPE in infected TC7 cells. We conclude that the in vivo persistence of SV40 in rhesus monkeys is not determined by cellular host factors, but by the immune system of the infected animals.
Interferon induction in porcine leukocytes with transmissible gastroenteritis virus.	Leukocytes were harvested from the peripheral blood, mesenteric lymph node and small intestinal lamina propria from groups of three piglets before, and 1, 2 and 3 weeks after infection with virulent transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) at 2 weeks of age. The donor piglets developed clinical signs of transmissible gastroenteritis which persisted for up to 3 days, and they developed peak serum titres of TGEV-neutralizing antibodies 2 weeks post-infection. The leukocytes were cultured in the presence of pokeweed mitogen (PWM), various dilutions of purified TGEV, or control media for 3 or 5 days, and the culture supernatants were tested for antiviral activity in MDBK cells challenged with vesicular stomatitis virus. The antiviral activity was characterized as porcine interferon (IFN)-alpha or porcine IFN-tau on the basis of its stability at pH 2.0 and neutralization by anti-human IFN-alpha antibodies. Viability of the leukocytes in culture, determined by trypan blue exclusion, was highest for the peripheral blood leukocytes and lowest for the mesenteric lymph node leukocytes. There were no consistent differences in antiviral activity between cultures incubated for 3 or 5 days. Porcine IFN-alpha was found in the supernatants of the leukocyte cultures stimulated with TGEV antigen, harvested before or after infection of the donor piglets with TGEV. Porcine IFN-tau was demonstrated in the supernatants of the leukocyte cultures stimulated with PWM, more frequently when the leukocytes were harvested post-infection. This was the first demonstration of IFN induction in vitro in leukocytes from porcine gut-associated lymphoid tissue.
Analysis of murine major histocompatibility complex class II-restricted T-cell responses to the flavivirus Kunjin by using vaccinia virus expression.	The present paper analyzes the influence of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II (Ir) genes on MHC class II-restricted T-cell responses to West Nile virus (WNV) and recombinant vaccinia virus-derived Kunjin virus antigens and identifies the immunodominant Kunjin virus antigens. Generally, mice were primed by intravenous infection with WNV or Kunjin virus, and their CD4+ T cells were stimulated in vitro 14 days later with WNV or Kunjin virus antigens to pulse macrophage or B-cell antigen-presenting cells (APC). WNV-specific in vitro T-cell responses from H-2b mice were higher than those from H-2d, H-2k, and H-2q mice. When recombinant vaccinia virus-derived Kunjin virus antigen preparations were tested in vitro, Kunjin virus-immune T cells of H-2b haplotype responded most strongly to structural (prM, C, E) and membrane-associated nonstructural (NS1) proteins encoded by VKV 1031 and showed weaker responses to cytosolic nonstructural protein NS5 (VKV 1022), whereas the responders of H-2k haplotype responded most strongly to the antigens encoded by VKV 1022 and gave lesser responses to VKV 1031. H-2d T cells gave weaker responses than either H-2b or H-2k cells, with responses to VKV 1031 generally being higher than those to VKV 1022. Responses to VKV 1023 or VKV 1024 encoding all of the NS3 to NS5 gene sequence or to VKV 1023 encoding all of NS3 were weak or absent. Within a given inbred strain, B cells and macrophages differed in their abilities to present recombinant vaccinia virus-derived Kunjin virus antigens, both in terms of magnitude of T-cell responses induced and the particular Kunjin virus protein presented. T cells from different non-MHC genetic backgrounds varied in their requirements of macrophage numbers as APC for maximum reactivity, suggesting that the concentration of class II MHC antigens and other molecules affecting APC-T-cell interaction varied in mice with different genetic backgrounds. Regardless of MHC haplotype, responses to VKV 1024, which encompasses VKV 1023 and VKV 1022, were either absent or lower than those to VKV 1022, possibly reflecting differences in the processing requirements of these two proteins. When mice were primed intravenously with recombinant vaccinia virus and when their CD4+ T cells were stimulated in vitro with native Kunjin virus antigens, VKV 1031 primed more efficiently than Kunjin virus and VKV 1022 primed similarly to Kunjin virus.
Broad cross-reactivity with marked fine specificity in the cytotoxic T cell response to flaviviruses.	Cytotoxic T (Tc) cells were generated in mice of five H-2 haplotypes against the flaviviruses Kunjin and West Nile (WNV). A panel of recombinant vaccinia viruses which between them expressed cDNA of the entire Kunjin virus genome were used to infect targets. Anti-Kunjin virus responses to determinants derived from non-structural proteins, especially NS3, NS4A and NS4B, were dominant in most mouse strains; usually only one class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) restriction element was involved. WNV-immune Tc cells showed similar but not identical patterns of antigen recognition to Kunjin virus-immune Tc cells. The extent to which WNV-immune Tc cells recognized Kunjin virus-encoded determinants varied considerably between mice of different MHC haplotypes.
Parenteral immunization of pigs against infection with Treponema hyodysenteriae.	Six intravenous injections of formalin-inactivated Treponema hyodysenteriae were given to 8 specific-pathogen-free pigs at 6-day intervals. The 8 vaccinated and 8 control pigs were challenged intragastrically with pure cultures of T hyodysenteriae 7 and 8 days after the last intravenous injection. Clinical signs of swine dysentery were observed in all 8 control pigs, but was observed in only 1 of the immunized pigs. Three control pigs died. These findings suggest that parenteral immunization with T hyodysenteriae provided a marked degree of protection against subsequent intragastric challenge exposure with the homologous isolate of T hyodysenteriae.
CD44 regulates arteriogenesis in mice and is differentially expressed in patients with poor and good collateralization.	Arteriogenesis refers to the development of collateral conductance arteries and is orchestrated by circulating monocytes, which invade growing collateral arteries and act as suppliers of cytokines and growth factors. CD44 glycoproteins are involved in leukocyte extravasation but also in the regulation of growth factor activation, stability, and signaling. Here, we explored the role of CD44 during arteriogenesis.
Antibody responses against avian reovirus nonstructural protein sigmaNS in experimentally virus-infected chickens monitored by a monoclonal antibody capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.	Crude antigen preparations from avian reovirus (ARV)-infected chicken embryo fibroblasts (sigmaNS) or from bacterially expressed protein sigmaNS (esigmaNS) were captured by monoclonal antibody 1E1(MAb 1E1) against ARV nonstructural protein sigmaNS immobilized on the ELISA plates and were used as the MAb capture ELISA for antibody detection. Sixty one-week-old specific pathogenic free (SPF) chickens were divided into six groups and were vaccinated with live or inactivated ARV vaccine preparations in different combinations or inoculated with a virulent ARV strain. Sera collected from the birds were tested for their antibody responses to ARV nonstructural protein sigmaNS. Using the MAb capture ELISAs, the level of nonspecific binding reactions was tested on the serum samples obtained weekly from mock-infected SPF chickens from 1 to 25 weeks and compared to the results tested by the conventional ELISA. The results indicated that both MAb capture ELISAs had lower nonspecific bindings than those in the conventional ELISA, even in older birds. Antibody responses against ARV sigmaNS of the birds which received the inactivated vaccine twice (group I), inactivated vaccine followed by a live vaccine (group II), or a live vaccine followed by boosting with an inactivated vaccine (group III) were detected by MAb captured ELISA with sigmaNS crude antigens. The absorbance values increased rapidly at 1-2 weeks after boosting, approximated a peak at 5-6 weeks of age, and maintained this throughout the length of the experiment. The absorbance values of the MAb capture ELISA showed a good correlation to the SN titers ( r value > 0.85). On the other hand, serum samples from the birds which received the live vaccine twice (group IV) or were inoculated with a virulent ARV (group V) did not show antibody responses to sigmaNS, similar to those from the mock-infected birds (group VI), as the absorbance values maintained at a low level (below 0.5) throughout the length of the experiment. Similar results were obtained in the sera detected by MAb capture ELISA with crude esigmaNS antigens, except that the absorbance values in the sera from the birds in group III were gradually increased and later approximated a peak at 11 weeks of age and maintained this throughout the length of the experiments. The results suggest that MAb capture ELISAs can be readily used to detect antibody responses of the birds against ARV nonstructural protein sigmaNS which may reflect an immune status of a chicken flock, receiving ARV vaccine as long as including an inactivated vaccine.
Continuous measurements of cerebral tissue oxygen pressure during hyperbaric oxygenation--HBO effects on brain edema and necrosis after severe brain trauma in rabbits.	Severe brain injury is one of the most frequent causes of severe disability in the young. In acute management of brain trauma, new approaches based on experimental animal investigations should be sought.
Depletion of tumor-infiltrating macrophages is associated with amphoterin expression in colon cancer.	Macrophage infiltration into colon cancer and amphoterin expression in cancer cells was examined in 42 human colon cancers invading the subserosa. The mean number of infiltrating macrophages was significantly higher in Dukes' B cases than in Dukes' C cases (p = 0.0065). Tumors with few infiltrating macrophages (macrophage depletion) were significantly more frequent in Dukes' C cases than in Dukes' B cases (p = 0.0014). No Dukes' C cases with relevant macrophage infiltration showed macrophage-cancer cell contact, whereas 5 Dukes' B cases showed such contact (p < 0.0001). In human colon cancer cells implanted in the cecum of nude mice, KM12SM (highly metastatic) tumors yielded less macrophage infiltration and more liver metastases than KM12C (low risk of metastasis) tumors (14 +/- 3 vs. 78 +/- 32 and 24 +/- 6 vs. 5 +/- 3 per liver, respectively). Amphoterin expression was detected at high frequency in both Dukes' B and C cases (p = 0.0684). In macrophage-depleted cases, amphoterin expression was significantly higher than that in non-depleted cases (p = 0.0015). To confirm biological effects of amphoterin on macrophages, an infiltration assay using the cell-layered Boyden chamber was done. Infiltration of PMA-treated U937 monocytes through the KM12SM cell layer was increased by pretreatment of KM12SM cells with amphoterin antisense S-oligodeoxynucleotide exposure. Moreover, extracted amphoterin inhibited PMA-U937 monocyte infiltration in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, amphoterin may play an important role in the inhibition of macrophage infiltration into colon cancer.
Plasma lipids, lipoprotein composition and profile during induction and treatment of hepatic lipidosis in cats and the metabolic effect of one daily meal in healthy cats.	Anorexia in obese cats may result in feline hepatic lipidosis (FHL). This study was designed to determine plasma lipids and lipoprotein profiles in queens at different stages during experimental induction of FHL (lean, obese, FHL), and after 10 weeks of treatment. Results were compared with those obtained from lean queens of same age fed the same diet but at a maintenance level, once a day. Hepatic lipidosis led to an increase in plasma triacylglycerol (TG), very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and low density lipoprotein (LDL), and an enrichment of LDL with TG and of high density lipoprotein (HDL) with cholesterol, suggesting that VLDL secretion is enhanced, VLDL and LDL catabolism is lowered, and lipoprotein exchanges are impaired in FHL. This study also showed that cholesterolaemia is increased in cats fed at a dietary rhythm of one meal per day compared to ad libitum feeding.
Lysine requirement of kittens given purified diets for maximal growth.	Three experiments were conducted using a total of 15 male and 15 female weaned specific pathogen-free kittens given amino acid-based purified diets containing varying concentrations of lysine (from 4.0 to 11.3 g/kg diet) in a Latin square design of 10 day periods. In experiment 1, the predicted lysine requirement was 7.7 g/kg diet, and in experiments 2 and 3, maximal weight gain occurred at 8.0 g lysine/kg diet. In experiment 3, nitrogen balance was not different for kittens given diets containing 8.0 and 9.0 g lysine/kg. These experiments support a requirement of 8.0 g lysine (free base)/kg diet, in a diet with a calculated metabolizable energy value of 4.7 kcal/g.
Nocardia otitidiscaviarum (GAM-5) induces parkinsonian-like alterations in mouse.	Parkinson's disease, a major neurodegenerative disorder in humans whose etiology is unknown, may be associated with some environmental factors. Nocardia otitidiscaviarum (GAM-5) isolated from a patient with an actinomycetoma produced signs similar to Parkinson's disease following iv injection into NMRI mice. NMRI mice were infected intravenously with a non-lethal dose of 5 x 10(6) colony forming units of N. otitidiscaviarum (GAM-5). Fourteen days after bacterial infection, most of the 60 mice injected exhibited parkinsonian features characterized by vertical head tremor, akinesia/bradykinesia, flexed posture and postural instability. There was a peak of nocardial growth in the brain during the first 24 h followed by a decrease, so that by 14 days nocardiae could no longer be cultured. At 24 h after infection, Gram staining showed nocardiae in neurons in the substantia nigra and occasionally in the brain parenchyma in the frontal and parietal cortex. At 21 days post-infection, tyrosine hydroxylase immunolabeling showed a 58% reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra, and a 35% reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase in the ventral tegmental region. Dopamine levels were reduced from 110 +/- 32.5 to 58 +/- 16.5 ng/mg protein (47.2% reduction) in brain from infected mice exhibiting impaired movements, whereas serotonin levels were unchanged (191 +/- 44 protein in control and 175 +/- 39 ng/mg protein in injected mice). At later times, intraneuronal inclusion bodies were observed in the substantia nigra. Our observations emphasize the need for further studies of the potential association between Parkinson's disease or parkinsonism-like disease and exposure to various nocardial species.
Experimental airborne transmission of PRRS virus.	A series of three experiments, differing primarily in airflow volume, were performed to evaluate the likelihood of airborne transmission of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRSV) from infected to non-infected pigs. Pigs were housed in two units (unit A and unit B) located 1m apart and connected by pipes. The air pressure and diameter of the pipes, depending on experiments, were strictly controlled to allow desired airflow volumes from unit A to unit B. Either 25 (experiment 1 and experiment 3) or 26 (experiment 2) pigs infected recently with PRRSV, and either 25 (experiment 1 and experiment 3) or 17 (experiment 2) pigs from a PRRSV-free herd, were housed in unit A. Either 50 pigs (experiment 1 and experiment 3) or 43 pigs (experiment 2) from a PRRSV-free herd were housed in unit B. The amount of air transmitted from unit A to unit B, expressed as a percentage of ventilation intake, was approximately 70, 10, and 1% for experiment 1, experiment 2 and experiment 3, respectively. Blood samples were collected from all pigs once per week and analyzed for antibodies against PRRSV. Based on these methods, airborne transmission of PRRSV from infected to non-infected pigs was confirmed in each of the three experiments.
Large doses of zinc oxide increases the activity of hydrolases in rats.	The effect of pharmacological doses of zinc oxide (1000; 2500; 5000 mg per kg diet) and two levels of dietary protein on pancreatic and intestinal hydrolase activity in rats were studied. It was hypothesized that ZnO would increase intestinal and pancreatic hydrolase enzyme activity. Male Wistar rats, averaging 64 g body weight, were randomly allocated to dietary treatments (chow diets- meeting all NRC requirements) containing 10% or 15% protein supplemented with additional ZnO (above 100 mg/kg ZnSO(4)) as follows: 0.0; 0.1; 0.25; 0.5% w/w. Water and food were provided ad libitum. Animals were fed the diets for 10 days and body weights were recorded; after decapitation blood and organ samples were collected. Amylase, lipase, trypsin, and total protease activity of pancreatic homogenates and small intestinal contents were determined. ZnO supplementation dose dependently increased the plasma Zn concentration and significantly increased amylase, lipase, trypsin and total protease activity in pancreatic homogenates and small intestinal contents. The statistical analysis showed significant protein and ZnO interaction on the activity of amylase in the pancreas, and amylase, trypsin and total-protease in the small intestinal content. Therefore ZnO at high dietary concentration may influence the digestion of nutrients via increased hydrolase activity.
Comparison of virulence of various hantaviruses related to hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in newborn mouse model.	The virulence of hantaviruses that are antigenically related but have different genetic characteristics from the prototype of hantavirus, Hantaan (HTN) virus, was examined in newborn mice. The H5 and B78 strains of the Amur (AMR) genotype, the Bao14 strain of the Far East (FE) genotype, and the 76-118 strain of HTN virus were inoculated subcutaneously (1focus-forming unit; FFU) into newborn mice. All of the AMR and FE genotype viruses inoculated mice were died by 16 days post-infection (dpi) and 21 dpi, respectively, while 50% of the HTN virus inoculated mice survived until 30 dpi. The AMR and FE genotype viruses inoculated mice had high viral titers in the lung (1.3x10(6) to 1.3x10(8) FFU/gram [g] tissue) , brain (2.1x10(7) to 1.2x10(9) FFU/g tissue), and kidney(2.5x10(5) to 1.6x10(7) FFU/g tissue), and showed a detectable level of antibodies (titers 1:16-1:32) at 14 dpi. In contrast, the HTN virus infected mice had viruses only in the lungs at low titers (1.1-5.3x10(5) FFU/g tissue). Observations of body-weight changes revealed that the AMR and FE genotype viruses inoculated mice had lower growth rates than the HTN virus inoculated mice. These data suggest that the AMR and FE genotype viruses are more virulent than the HTN virus in newborn mice.
Rat islet isolation yield and function are donor strain dependent.	Effective rat islet isolation is pertinent for successful islet transplantation and islet studies in vitro. To determine which rat strain yields the highest number of pure and functional islets, four commonly used rat strains were compared with regard to islet yield, islet purity and islet function. Secretory responses were assessed by stimulation with glucose, and by stimulation with glucose plus 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX). We show that rat islet function and isolation yield are donor strain dependent. Albino Oxford (AO) rats donated twice as many islets than Wistar, Lewis and Sprague Dawley (SD) rats. Stimulation with glucose plus IBMX resulted in an average five-fold increase of the stimulation index of AO, Lewis, Wistar and SD rats compared to stimulation with glucose only. AO islets had improved secretory responses after a one-week culture period, but required the addition of IBMX to glucose to elicit a distinguished stimulated insulin secretion after 2 days of culture. Islets from SD rats showed inferior results with regard to purity immediately after isolation and with regard to function after short- and after long-time culture. Because Lewis islets possessed the highest secretory response to glucose (without IBMX) immediately after isolation, Lewis rats may be preferred as islet donors for immediate use. The addition of IBMX to glucose for in vitro functional testing is recommended because it elicits high insulin secretory responses of islets regardless of the rat strain. AO rats are preferred for culture experiments since the number of experimental animals is reduced two-fold compared to Lewis, Wistar and SD rats.
Immune responses of different mouse strains after challenge with equivalent lethal doses of Toxoplasma gondii.	Most immunological studies that utilize different strains of inbred mice following T. gondii infection fail to compensate for differences in host susceptibility to the size of the parasite innoculum. To address this concern, susceptible C57BL/6 and resistant CBA/J mice were orally infected with either an equivalent 50% lethal dose (LD50) of brain cysts of the 76K strain of T. gondii (15 cysts in C57BL/6, 400 cysts in CBA/J) or the same dose of parasites in each mouse strain. C57BL/6 mice receiving 400 cysts (LD50 of CBA/J mice) died post infection, whereas CBA/J mice that received 15 cysts (LD50 of C57BL/6 mice) survived. Parasite loads in the brains and serum Toxoplasma-specific IgG1 titers of LD50-infected C57BL/6 mice were significantly higher than those in LD50- or 15 cysts-infected CBA/J mice, whereas splenocyte proliferation to Toxoplasma antigen and the percentage of CD8 alpha+ T cells were reduced in LD50-infected C57BL/6 mice. In contrast, serum IgG2a and IgM titers, the percentage of gamma delta T cells and IFN-gamma expression of spleen of LD50-infected CBA/J mice were higher than those of either 15 cysts-infected CBA/J mice or LD50-infected C57BL/6 mice. These observations demonstrate that the immune response between LD50-infected C57BL/6 and CBA/J mice was more prominent when compared to C57BL/6 or CBA/J mice receiving the same parasite inoculum. These observations would suggest that caution must be excersized in the planning and interpretation of data when the size of the parasite inoculum has not been adjusted for mouse strain.
Tumor formation is correlated with expression of beta-catenin-accumulated crypts in azoxymethane-induced colon carcinogenesis in mice.	We have reported that beta-catenin-accumulated crypts (BCAC) are independent of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in the colonic mucosa of rats exposed to colorectal carcinogens, and we suggested that they may be premalignant lesions. In the present study, we performed a comparative study on the formation of the two types of early-appearing lesions (BCAC and ACF), and tumors of the colon in two mouse strains with different susceptibility to azoxymethane (AOM). SWR/J mice are known to be relatively susceptible to AOM, whereas AKR/J mice are reported to be virtually resistant. Both AKR/J and SWR/J mice, 6 weeks old, received subcutaneous injections of AOM (15 mg/kg body weight) once a week for 3 weeks, and were sacrificed at 16 and 41 weeks of age. Colons of the animals sacrificed at 16 and 41 weeks of age were processed to examine expression of the early-appearing lesions and neoplasms. Although AKR/J mice had a lower incidence of colonic tumors than SWR/J mice did, AKR/J mice showed a similar frequency of ACF to that in SWR/J mice. In both strains, ACF were detected at high frequency in the proximal colon, whereas tumors developed mainly in the distal colon. Importantly, the incidence of BCAC in SWR/J mice was significantly higher than that in AKR/J mice, and the highest frequency was observed in the distal segments of the colon. These results support the idea that BCAC are a reliable surrogate endpoint for colon carcinogenesis in mice.
In vitro activation of murine peritoneal macrophages by ultraviolet B radiation: upregulation of CD18, production of NO, proinflammatory cytokines and a signal transduction pathway.	In the present study, we report the activation of murine peritoneal macrophages in vitro on irradiation with sublethal dose of UVB (50 mJ/cm(2)). The activation involves enhanced expression of CD18 molecule and production of nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1 (IL-1). Production of NO, TNF-alpha and IL-1 by the macrophages on UVB irradiation was found to peak at 24 h of incubation post UVB irradiation. Increased iNOS, TNF-alpha and IL-1beta mRNAs expression was also observed by reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The RT-PCR results also showed the increased transcription of IL-6, IL-12, TLR2 and TLR4 genes in UVB-irradiated macrophages. Increased expression of phospho-IkappaB was also observed by immunoblotting in UVB-irradiated macrophages. Investigating the signal transduction pathway responsible for the NO, TNF-alpha and IL-1 production by the UVB-irradiated macrophages, it was observed that the pharmacological inhibitors pertussis toxin, wortmannin, PD98059, SB202190 and genistein blocked NO, TNF-alpha and IL-1 production suggesting the probable involvement of G-proteins, phosphoinositol-3-kinase, p42/44, p38 mitogen activated protein kinases and tyrosine kinases in the above process.
Delayed clearance of pneumocystis carinii infection, increased inflammation, and altered nitric oxide metabolism in lungs of surfactant protein-D knockout mice.	Surfactant protein-D (SP-D), a member of the "collectin" family, has been shown to play a role in innate immunity through modulation of inflammation and clearance of organisms. The role of SP-D in host defense against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was assessed using SP-D knockout (KO) mice. When inoculated with P. carinii, both wild-type (wt) and SP-D KO mice required CD4 cell depletion to develop infection. In CD4 cell-depleted models, 2 weeks after infection with P. carinii, SP-D KO mice developed increased intensity of infection, compared with wt mice, despite higher lung-inflammation scores and increased amounts of alveolar inflammatory cells. The increased inflammation seen in SP-D KO mice was accompanied by increases in lung weight, expression of inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase, total NO levels, and 3-nitrotyrosine levels in lung tissue. These results indicate that SP-D plays a role in host defense against P. carinii in vivo by modulating clearance of organisms, lung inflammation, and metabolism of NO.
Effect of in ovo administered reovirus vaccines on immune responses of specific-pathogen-free chickens.	We investigated the effect of in ovo administered reovirus vaccines on the immune responses of specific-pathogen-free chickens. T-cell mitogenic responses to concanavalin A were numerically lower at 9 and 12 days of age and significantly lower at 6 days of age in birds vaccinated with a commercial reovirus vaccine compared with unvaccinated birds or birds vaccinated with an experimental reovirus-antibody complex vaccine. There were no significant differences in proportions of subpopulations of helper (CD4+CD8-) or cytotoxic (CD4-CD8+) T cells except at 12 days of age, when the percentages of CD4-CD8+ cells in the two vaccinated groups were statistically higher than in the nonvaccinated group. B-cell populations were not different among vaccine groups except at 9 days of age, when the vaccinated groups had the highest level of B cells. This commercial reovirus vaccine should not be given in ovo to embryos having little or no maternal antibody, otherwise immunosuppression may occur in the chicks. The addition of the antibody complex to the vaccine prevented this T-cell immunosuppression.
Postnatal microbial colonization programs the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal system for stress response in mice.	Indigenous microbiota have several beneficial effects on host physiological functions; however, little is known about whether or not postnatal microbial colonization can affect the development of brain plasticity and a subsequent physiological system response. To test the idea that such microbes may affect the development of neural systems that govern the endocrine response to stress, we investigated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) reaction to stress by comparing germfree (GF), specific pathogen free (SPF) and gnotobiotic mice. Plasma ACTH and corticosterone elevation in response to restraint stress was substantially higher in GF mice than in SPF mice, but not in response to stimulation with ether. Moreover, GF mice also exhibited reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression levels in the cortex and hippocampus relative to SPF mice. The exaggerated HPA stress response by GF mice was reversed by reconstitution with Bifidobacterium infantis. In contrast, monoassociation with enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, but not with its mutant strain devoid of the translocated intimin receptor gene, enhanced the response to stress. Importantly, the enhanced HPA response of GF mice was partly corrected by reconstitution with SPF faeces at an early stage, but not by any reconstitution exerted at a later stage, which therefore indicates that exposure to microbes at an early developmental stage is required for the HPA system to become fully susceptible to inhibitory neural regulation. These results suggest that commensal microbiota can affect the postnatal development of the HPA stress response in mice.
Facilitating roles of murine platelet glycoprotein Ib and alphaIIbbeta3 in phosphatidylserine exposure during vWF-collagen-induced thrombus formation.	Vessel wall damage exposes collagen fibres, to which platelets adhere directly via the collagen receptors glycoprotein (GP) VI and integrin alpha(2)beta(1) and indirectly by collagen-bound von Willebrand factor (vWF) via the GPIb-V-IX and integrin alphaIIbbeta3 receptor complexes. Platelet-collagen interaction under shear stimulates thrombus formation in two ways, by integrin-dependent formation of platelet aggregates and by surface exposure of procoagulant phosphatidylserine (PS). GPVI is involved in both processes, complemented by alpha2beta1. In mouse blood flowing over collagen, we investigated the additional role of platelet-vWF binding via GPIb and alphaIIbbeta3. Inhibition of GPIb as well as blocking of vWF binding to collagen reduced stable platelet adhesion at high shear rate. This was accompanied by delayed platelet Ca(2+) responses and reduced PS exposure, while microaggregates were still formed. Inhibition of integrin alphaIIbbeta3 with JON/A antibody, which blocks alphaIIbbeta3 binding to both vWF and fibrinogen, reduced PS exposure and aggregate formation. The JON/A effects were not enhanced by combined blocking of GPIb-vWF binding, suggesting a function for alphaIIbbeta3 downstream of GPIb. Typically, with blood from FcR gamma-chain +/- mutant mice, expressing 50% of normal platelet GPVI levels, GPIb blockage almost completely abolished platelet adhesion and PS exposure. Together, these data indicate that, under physiological conditions of flow, both adhesive receptors GPIb and alphaIIbbeta3 facilitate GPVI-mediated PS exposure by stabilizing platelet binding to collagen. Hence, these glycoproteins have an assistant procoagulant role in collagen-dependent thrombus formation, which is most prominent at reduced GPVI activity and is independent of the presence of thrombin.
Abrogation of autoimmune disease in Lyn-deficient mice by the deletion of IL-5 receptor alpha chain gene.	Lyn, the src-family protein tyrosine kinase, plays a crucial role in the regulation of B cell antigen receptor (BCR)- and IL-5-receptor (IL-5R)-mediated signaling. Lyn-deficient mice have been reported to exhibit an increase in B-1 cell numbers, splenomegaly and accumulation of lymphoblast-like cells in the spleen with age, resulting in hyperimmunoglobulinemia and glomerulonephritis caused by the deposition of autoantibody complexes. To elucidate the role of IL-5 in B-1 cell activation, autoantibody production and autoimmune diseases, Lyn-deficient mice were crossed with IL-5Ralpha chain (IL-5Ralpha)-deficient mice and generated Lyn- and IL-5Ralpha-deficient (DKO) mice. In contrast to Lyn-deficient mice, DKO mice showed significantly reduced splenomegaly and lymphoadenopathy and reduced B-1 cell number in the peritoneal cavity. DKO mice also secreted low levels of IgM and IgG autoantibodies. Biochemical and histological analyses revealed that DKO mice showed milder pathogenesis of autoimmune-like disorders than Lyn-deficient mice. These results suggest involvement of IL-5 in enhanced B-1 cell activation, autoantibody production, and development of autoimmune disease in Lyn-deficient mice.
Metal-responsive transcription factor-1 (MTF-1) is essential for embryonic liver development and heavy metal detoxification in the adult liver.	Metal-responsive transcription factor-1 (MTF-1) activates the transcription of metallothionein genes and other target genes in response to heavy metal load and other stresses such as hypoxia and oxidative stress. It also has an essential function during embryogenesis: targeted disruption of Mtf1 in the mouse results in lethal liver degeneration on day 14 of gestation. Here we studied Mtf1 knockout mice at embryonic and adult stages, the latter by means of conditional knockout. Hepatocytes from Mtf1 null mutant and wild-type embryos were taken into culture on day 12.5 of gestation. Both initially appeared normal, but mutant cells were lost within a few days. Furthermore, Mtf1 null hepatocytes were poorly, if at all, rescued by cocultivation with wild-type rat embryo hepatocytes, indicating a cell-autonomous defect. When the Mtf1 gene was excised by Cre recombinase after birth in liver and bone marrow and to a lesser extent in other organs, mice were viable under non-stress conditions but highly susceptible to cadmium toxicity, in support of a role of MTF-1 in coping with heavy metal stress. An additional MTF-1 function was revealed upon analysis of the hematopoietic system in conditional knockout mice where leukocytes, especially lymphocytes, were found to be severely underrepresented. Together, these findings point to a critical role of MTF-1 in embryonic liver formation, heavy metal toxicity, and hematopoiesis.
Characterization of an avian infectious bronchitis virus isolated in China from chickens with nephritis.	One IBV isolate, SC021202, was isolated from the kidneys of the infected young chickens by inoculating embryonated eggs, and its morphology, physiochemical and haemagglutonating properties were detected. Virulence of the isolate SC021202 was determined with specific pathogen-free (SPF) chicken inoculation. Nucleotide acid sequence of S1 gene of the isolate SC021202 was further sequenced and analysed. The physiochemical and morphological properties of the isolate SC021202 were in accordance to that of typical infectious bronchitis virus (IBV). In a pathogenicity experiment, the clinical signs and related gross lesions resembling those of field outbreak were reproduced and the virus isolate SC021202 was re-isolated from the kidneys of the infected chicken. Sequence data demonstrated that the full length of the amplified S1 gene of the isolate SC021202 was composed of 1931 nucleotides, coding a polypeptide of 543 amino acid residues. Compared with IBV strains from GenBank, the nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence of S1 gene of the isolate SC021202 shared 60.0-91.4% and 49.1-88.9% identities, respectively. A nucleotide fragment of 'CTTTTTAATTATACTAACGGA' was inserted at nucleotide site 208 in the S1 gene of the isolate. These results indicated that IBV isolate SC021202 was a new variant IBV isolate and responsible for field outbreak of nephritis.
Comparative studies of experimental oral inoculation of pigs with Ascaris suum eggs or third stage larvae.	This experimental study was designed to compare the acquired resistance in pigs to Ascaris suum eggs following 4-weekly oral immunizations with either 200 A. suum infective eggs or 50 A. suum third stage larvae (L3). The two immunized groups (n = 7) together with an unimmunized control group (n = 7) of pigs were challenged orally with 50 infective A. suum eggs per kilogram bodyweight on day 19 after the last immunization. Seven days post-challenge the group immunized with eggs showed signs of resistance as evidenced by reduced lung larval counts compared with the challenge control group. Such significant resistance was not observed in the L3-immunized group. However, a markedly increased inflammatory liver reaction and white spot formation was demonstrated in the L3-immunized pigs after challenge compared with both control animals and egg-immunized pigs. On the day of challenge only the egg-immunized pigs mounted an anti-Ascaris antibody response both in serum and in lung lavage fluid. Ascaris-antigen induced increased histamine release from peripheral leucocytes following both immunization and challenge could only be demonstrated in the egg-immunized pigs. On day 7 post-challenge local IgA-anti-Ascaris antibodies were further demonstrated in bile of the egg-immunized group and in the small intestine of both immunized groups. In conclusion, oral A. suum egg immunization of pigs induced a significant reduction in lung larval counts upon challenge. In contrast, oral L3 immunization seemed to prime the pigs as observed by the presence of stunted lung larval growth and increased liver reaction post-challenge with A. suum eggs.
Post-initiation modulating effects of allyl sulfides in rat hepatocarcinogenesis.	Effects of administration of diallyl sulfide (DAS) and diallyl disulfide (DADS) on the promotion stage of hepatocarcinogenesis were investigated in rats using the Ito model. They were compared with those of phenobarbital (PB), a well-known liver promoter in rats. Initiation was induced by a single dose of N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) and 3 weeks later, a partial hepatectomy was conducted. Two weeks after the NDEA injection, rats received either 0.05% allyl sulfides, PB or both in their diet for 8 weeks. Feeding with DAS increased the number of liver preneoplastic foci by 63% with respect to the untreated group. However, rats fed DAS showed a lower foci development than rats fed PB. The DADS group did not differ from control group for any of the measured morphometric parameters. Simultaneous administration of DADS with PB partially reduced the promotional activity of PB whereas DAS co-treatment did not modify PB properties. These findings confirm that DAS can act as a promoter in rat liver but exerts no co-promoting effect. Conversely, DADS was found to have promotion-inhibiting ability, suggesting that DADS has greater value than DAS as a chemopreventive agent.
Anti-metastatic activity of Acanthopanax senticosus extract and its possible immunological mechanism of action.	Antitumor and immunomodulatory activities of an aqueous extract (GF100) of Acanthopanax senticosus were examined. In experimental lung metastasis of colon26-M3.1 carcinoma cells, intravenous (i.v.) administration of GF100 2 days before tumor inoculation significantly inhibited lung metastasis in a dose-dependent manner. The i.v. administration of GF100 also exhibited the therapeutic effect on tumor metastasis of colon26-M3.1 cells, when it was injected 1 day after tumor inoculation. In an in vitro cytotoxicity analysis, GF100 at the concentration up to 1000 microg/ml did not affect the growth of colon26-M3.1 cells. In contrast, GF100 enhanced the responsiveness to a mitogen, concanavalin A (ConA), of splenocytes in a dose-dependent manner. Peritoneal macrophage stimulated with GF100 produced various cytokines such as IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-12 and IFN-gamma in an in vitro experiment. The macrophages obtained from the mice which were injected with GF100 (500 microg) 3 days before the assay showed significantly higher tumoricidal activity against tumor cells than that of the untreated macrophages. In addition, the i.v. administration of GF100 significantly augmented NK cytotoxicity to Yac-1 cells. The depletion of NK cells by injection of rabbit anti-asialo GM1 serum completely abolished the inhibitory effect of GF100 on lung metastasis of colon26-M3.1 cells. These data suggest that GF100 has antitumor activity to inhibit tumor metastasis prophylactically as well as therapeutically, and its antitumor effect is associated with activation of macrophages and NK cells.
Afferent and efferent connections of the nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis demonstrated by WGA-HRP in the chick.	Fibre connections of the chick nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis (GLv) were investigated using the axonal tracing method with wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). After an injection of WGA-HRP into the GLv, many labelled neurons were observed in layer i of the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale (SGFS) in the ipsilateral tectum opticum (TO) and in the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM). In the TO-GLv projection, cells of origin were located in the deeper part of layer i of the TO and were topographically distributed along the direction from the rostrodorsal part to the caudoventral part of the TO relating to a rostrocaudal axis of the GLv. In the LM-GLv connection, the dorsal and ventral parts of the LM connected reciprocally with the rostral and caudal halves of the GLv, respectively. In contrast, in the GLv efferent connection, labelled axon terminals spread widely in the ipsilateral area pretectalis without any clear topographical arrangement.
The interferon-alpha genes from three chicken lines and its effects on H9N2 influenza viruses.	The interferon-alpha genes from three chicken lines were cloned by a direct PCR technique, and the effects of recombinant protein expressed in a prokaryotic system on highly pathogenic H9N2 influenza viruses were investigated. The cloned ChIFN-alpha gene encoded a protein of 193 amino acids with a signal sequence of 31 amino acids and mature peptides of 162 amino acids. Comparison of ChIFN-alpha sequences, detected six amino acids substitutions at positions 50, 58, 65, 81, 181, and 183. Homology analysis indicated that ChIFN-alpha genes could be subdivided into two lineages, SH-ChIFN-alpha and WJ-ChIFN-alpha. In addition, both SH-ChIFN-alpha and WJ-ChIFN-alpha were expressed with the N-terminal 6 consecutive histidine residues in a high-level prokaryotic expression system. Recombinant chicken interferon-alpha (rChIFN-alpha) protein has anti-VSV activity of more than 1 x 10(8) U/mg. Moreover, High concentration (10,000U) of rSH-ChIFN-alpha resulted in over 40% inhibition of the H9N2 virus infection in chicken embryos (Ovo), and 100% inhibition from one day-old to five day-old chickens (Vivo). The results suggested that rChIFN-alpha is a potential agent against many Chicken viral strains.
Stress triggered rise in plasma aldosterone is lessened by chronic nicotine infusion.	The ability of nicotine infusion to modulate plasma aldosterone levels in response to different stressors was investigated. Sprague-Dawley rats given nicotine (5 mg/kg/day) or saline for 14 days were subjected to stress. Baseline plasma aldosterone (86+/-17 pmol/l) was unaffected by nicotine. Aldosterone was significantly elevated by restraint (450+/-72 pmol/l) and especially with cold (1249+/-172 pmol/l) or immobilization (1779+/-247 pmol/l) stress. Nicotine infusion attenuated the rise in aldosterone with restraint and cold stress, but not immobilization. These results reveal that nicotine infusion can attenuate the aldosterone response, depending on the type of stress.
Simultaneous treatment of chickens with salinomycin and tiamulin in feed.	Laboratory and field experiments involving more than 100,000 birds were performed to assess the effect of simultaneous in-feed medication of chickens with salinomycin and tiamulin at various concentrations. In an artificial infection study with Mycoplasma gallisepticum, low levels of tiamulin (10-40 ppm) did not induce signs of ionophore intoxication with salinomycin at 60 ppm in the feed, whereas levels of 50 ppm caused early signs with a mild growth depression. A level of 20 ppm gave a maximum average improvement in growth rate of 12.5%. There was a dose-related response in mycoplasma lesion inhibition, with 50 ppm reducing lesions by 75%. In the two field trials, chickens suffering from mycoplasmosis complicated with infectious bronchitis and receiving 60 ppm salinomycin in the feed showed marked improvements in mortality rates, lesion scores, and feed-conversion efficiency when tiamulin was added at 20 ppm and 30 ppm in the feed. There were no signs of incompatibility between the two antibiotics at these levels.
Biological properties of waterfowl-origin type A influenza viruses in chickens.	The replicative abilities and tissue tropism properties of 13 non-pathogenic or low-pathogenic waterfowl-origin type A influenza isolates recovered in 1986 were examined in chickens. Following intravenous challenge, reisolation of challenge virus was attempted from swabs of the luminal surfaces of the cloaca, jejunum, ileum, bursa, trachea, and air sacs and from swabs of bone marrow and liver tissues. Virus-isolation attempts were also accomplished on brain, thymus, spleen, pancreas, gonad, kidney, blood, and lung tissues. The overall frequency of influenza virus recovery for each experiment ranged from 3.1% to 49.3%. For all experiments combined, 58.3% of the kidney tissues and 62.9% of the cloacal swab samples collected on days 1 to 10 postinoculation were positive for challenge virus recovery. Virus titers up to 10(8.7) mean embryo infective dose per gram of kidney tissue were demonstrated in clinically normal chickens. Distinct biological variations and nephrotropism appear to exist among the corporate properties of virus populations making up each of the 13 waterfowl-origin type A influenza isolates.
Use of pilocarpine-induced alimentary secretions to measure intestinal shedding of Salmonella enteritidis in chickens.	A technique has been developed that uses the parasympathomimetic drug pilocarpine to induce alimentary secretions in chickens for measuring local immune responses to Salmonella enteritidis strain SE6. A study was conducted to determine if these secretions could also be used to detect intestinal SE6 shedding. White leghorn chickens infected with 1 x 10(9) SE6 were samples weekly using cloacal swabs, and the isolation rates from these samples were compared with alimentary secretions induced by oral administration of phosphate-buffered saline followed 45 minutes later with an intraperitoneal injection of 5% pilocarpine. At 9 days postinfection, isolation rates from the alimentary secretions were significantly higher than isolation rates from the swabs, and by day 16 they were double those from the swabs. In separate small experiments, alimentary secretions induced by pilocarpine alone also had significantly more SE6 isolations than did cloacal swabs on two of three sampling times examined. Direct culture of feces resulted in numerically but not significantly greater SE6 isolations than did cloacal swabs on two of three sampling times. These results indicate that induced intestinal material is a better sample source than cloacal swabs for detecting S. enteritidis intestinal infections in chickens and could have many applications in intestinal pathogenesis research.
Fowl cholera epornitic: antigenic characterization and virulence of selected Pasteurella multocida isolates.	An epornitic of fowl cholera involving turkey flocks of several farms within a 15-mile radius in Utah was studied. Pasteurella multocida strains isolated from birds in affected flocks were antigenically characterized as A:1, A:3, and B:4, based on capsular sero-grouping and somatic serotyping results. Experimental exposure of poults with each of two strains representing the rarely reported capsular group B indicated that both were virulent.
Noncariogenicity of maltitol in specific pathogen-free rats infected with mutans streptococci.	The effect of maltitol on caries development was examined in an experimental caries system employing specific pathogen-free (SPF) Sprague-Dawley rats. Fourteen strains of oral streptococci, including mutans streptococci, did not utilize the maltitol nor produce sufficient acid to demineralize tooth enamel. Furthermore, maltitol did not serve as a substrate for glucosyltransferases of either Streptococcus mutans MT8148R or Streptococcus sobrinus 6715 to synthesize water-insoluble glucan. Maltitol induced no significant dental caries in SPF rats infected with these mutans streptococci, and replacement of the dietary sucrose content with maltitol resulted in a trend towards caries reduction in SPF rats.
Immunity to B16 melanoma in mice immunized with IL-2-secreting allogeneic mouse fibroblasts expressing melanoma-associated antigens.	Co-presentation of weak tumour-associated antigens along with strongly immunogenic determinants leads to the development of an anti-tumour immune response in recipients syngeneic with the tumour. Tumour immunity develops in mice immunized with tumour cells modified by the introduction of cDNA for interleukin-2 (IL-2). Here, we report the anti-tumour response following immunization with an IL-2-secreting cell construct that expresses tumour-associated antigens, along with allogeneic major histocompatibility antigens. The construct was prepared by transfecting LM(TK-) mouse fibroblasts (H-2k) with genomic DNA from B16 melanoma cells syngeneic in C57BL/6J mice (H-2b). Transfectants expressing melanoma-associated antigens (MAA) were then infected with an expression-competent retroviral vector containing a cDNA specifying human IL-2. Cytotoxicity toward B16 cells was detected for as long as 5 months in both spleen and macrophage cell populations in C57BL/6J mice immunized with the IL-2-secreting cells. Mice immunized with non-IL-2-secreting, MAA-positive allogeneic cells developed melanoma immunity as well, but to a lesser extent. Immunity to 2 tumour-cell lines expressing the H-2d haplotype and to YAC-1 cells was detected in peritoneal macrophages, but not in spleen cells from C57BL/6J mice immunized with the cell construct, indicating that the response to B16 cells was only partially specific. C57BL/6J mice immunized with the IL-2-secreting cell construct survived significantly longer, following an injection of viable B16 cells, than mice in various control groups. The contribution of allogeneic antigens to the melanoma immunity was indicated by the failure of mice syngeneic with LM(TK-) cells to develop melanoma immunity following immunization with non-IL-2-secreting, MAA-positive cell constructs. The formation of IL-2 partially compensated for the lack of allogeneic antigens.
Therapeutic use of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in neonatal rats with type III group B streptococcal sepsis.	The use of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF) as therapy in neonatal sepsis has been proposed because of observed defects in polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMNL) production and function in infected neonates. Newborn rats were infected intraperitoneally (ip) with type III group B streptococcus (III-GBS) and effects of treatment with rhGM-CSF given ip 7-19 h after infection were studied. Overall mortality was 67% in controls and 37% in animals treated with rhGM-CSF (P = .003). No changes in peripheral blood PMNL number or oxidative metabolic function were found in infected or uninfected animals given rhGM-CSF compared with controls. In uninfected animals, there was an increase in the oxidative burst of peritoneal cells at 3.5 h (P = .043) and in the numbers of peritoneal cells at 3 h (P = .001) in animals receiving ip rhGM-CSF compared with controls. Phagocyte priming, cellular influx into the peritoneum, or both appear to contribute to the decreased mortality observed in this model of rhGM-CSF therapy of III-GBS disease in neonates.
Effect of pertussis toxin on susceptibility of infant rats to Haemophilus influenzae type b.	Pertussis toxin is an important virulence factor of Bordetella pertussis that may also contribute to the toxicity of pertussis vaccines. The effect of low doses of pertussis toxin on response to Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) infection was examined in infant rats. Pretreatment of rats with 10 or 100 ng of pertussis toxin increased blood bacterial concentration (P less than .01), serum endotoxin levels (P less than .01), and mortality (P less than .05) relative to saline pretreated controls challenged with 4 x 10(3) Hib intraperitoneally. The 100-ng dose of pertussis toxin, but not the 10-ng dose, increased the leukocyte count. Thus, doses of pertussis toxin less than the threshold dose for inducing leukocytosis may enhance the susceptibility of infant rats to Hib infections.
Dendritic cells are present in the alveolar region of lungs from specific pathogen-free rats.	The purpose of the present study was to establish the presence of dendritic cells in the alveolar region of rat lungs and determine whether they express the antigenic markers suggested in previous studies. We used pathogen-free rats to minimize changes in the cell populations due to subclinical infection and disease as inflammatory products can increase the number of dendritic cells in lungs. As an assay for accessory cells, proliferation of periodate-treated T cells was used. This is an accessory cell dependent response, and most importantly, dendritic cells, not macrophages, can act as accessory cells in this assay. Using this approach, lung cell suspensions, derived primarily from parenchymal tissue, were found to contain accessory cells. The accessory cell population was low density, radiation resistant, Fc receptor negative, nonadherent, and contained cells with similar morphology to dendritic cells from other tissues. About 90% of the accessory cell activity was lost upon depletion of MRC OX-6 (Ia) or MRC OX-1 (leukocyte common antigen, LCA) positive cells. The expression of LCA indicates that the accessory cells were bone marrow derived and not endothelial or epithelial cells. In contrast to suggestions from earlier studies, no loss in activity was seen when cell depletion was performed using CD-4 (W3/25) and macrophage specific (ED-2) antibodies. Thus, these cells appear to be functionally and phenotypically similar to dendritic cells isolated from other rat lymphoid tissues. However, they lack antigenic markers (CD-4 and ED-2) suggested to be expressed by alveolar dendritic cells as described in previous immunocytochemistry studies.
Survival after total body irradiation: effects of irradiation of exteriorized small intestine.	Rats receiving lethal irradiation to their exteriorized small intestine with pulsed 18 MVp bremsstrahlung radiation live about 4 days longer than rats receiving a dose of total-body irradiation (TBI) causing intestinal death. The LD50 for intestinal irradiation is approximately 6 Gy higher than the LD50 for intestinal death after TBI. Survival time after exteriorized intestinal irradiation can be decreased, by adding abdominal irradiation. Adding thoracic or pelvic irradiation does not alter survival time. Shielding of large intestine improves survival after irradiation of the rest of the abdomen while the small intestine is also shielded. The kinetics of histological changes in small intestinal tissue implicate the release of humoral factors after irradiation of the abdomen. Radiation injury develops faster in the first (proximal) 40 cm of the small intestine and is expressed predominantly as shortening in villus height. In the last (distal) 40 cm of the small intestine, the most pronounced radiation effect is a decrease in the number of crypts per millimeter. Irradiation (20 Gy) of the proximal small intestine causes 92% mortality (median survival 10 days). Irradiation (20 Gy) of the distal small intestine causes 27% mortality (median survival greater than 30 days). In addition to depletion of crypt stem cells in the small intestine, other issues (humoral factors, irradiated subsection of the small intestine and shielding of the large intestine) appear to influence radiation-induced intestinal mortality.
Disaccharidase activity in the small intestine of susceptible and resistant mice after primary and challenge infections with Giardia muris.	The activities of four disaccharidases were examined in resistant (C57Bl/6) and susceptible (C3H/HeN) mice during the primary infection with Giardia muris and after challenge with either trophozoite extract or cysts. Significant decreases in lactase, sucrase, trehalase, and maltase activities in C57Bl/6 mice and lactase and sucrase activities in C3H/HeN mice in the anterior 25% of the small intestine were observed on day 10 after infection. The activities of maltase, sucrase, trehalase, and lactase in the jejunum of C3H/HeN mice were significantly reduced after challenge with trophozoite extract, when compared with the uninfected or infected, but not challenged animals. Decreases in enzyme activities of C3H/HeN mice were evident as early as 12 hours after challenge with the extract. The resistant C57Bl/6 mice showed little change in disaccharidase activity after challenge with trophozoite extract. On the other hand, challenge with cysts resulted in a few decreases in disaccharidase activities in both strains of mice: C57Bl/6 mice showed decreases in the duodenum, while disaccharidases of C3H/HeN mice had lower activity more posteriorly. Thus, challenge with parasite antigen results in a more severe disaccharidase deficiency in susceptible hosts when compared with resistant ones.
Long-term effects of ozone and nitrogen dioxide on the metabolism and population of alveolar macrophages.	To investigate how alveolar macrophages adapt themselves to oxidative pollutants in the long term, rats were exposed to a strong oxidant, ozone (O3), or a weak oxidant, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), for a maximum duration of 12 wk. After exposures, alveolar macrophages were collected by pulmonary lavage. Throughout 11 wk of exposure to 0.2 ppm O3, the specific activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) and glutathione peroxidase of the peroxidative metabolic pathway and pyruvate kinase and hexokinase of the glycolytic pathway were 40-70% elevated over the controls in alveolar macrophages. The population of alveolar macrophages was consistently 60% higher than the controls. The small-sized macrophages, immature macrophages, preferentially increased. To the contrary, the thymidine incorporation per cell was always 20-30% lower than in the controls, although the total incorporation remained unchanged. No infiltration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes occurred. By 12 wk of exposures to 1.2 and 4.0 ppm NO2, the population of alveolar macrophages increased 30% over the control. Among the enzymes examined, however, only the G6PDH activity increased 10% for 4.0 ppm NO2. No increase in the enzyme activities occurred for 1.2 ppm NO2. Based on these results, alveolar macrophages adapt themselves to the long-term exposure of O3 or NO2 by recruiting immature macrophages through an apparent influx of monocytes. During the exposure to O3, the peroxidative metabolic and glycolytic pathways are enhanced persistently in alveolar macrophages, whereas both pathways were not enhanced by the exposures to NO2.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 in a rat model of pulmonary granulomatosis.	Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP1), also known as monocyte chemotactic and activating factor, possesses potent chemotactic activity for monocytes and can augment monocyte tumoristatic activity against some tumor cell lines. While these activities suggest a role in inflammatory and immunologic processes, the biologic role of MCP1 has not been studied in vivo. Glucan-induced pulmonary granulomatosis in the rat is an ideal model in which to study the role of MCP1 because the granulomas are monocyte/macrophage rich. Intravenous infusion of particulate yeast cell wall glucan resulted in the synchronous development of angiocentric pulmonary granulomas. Early lesions (6 hours) were characterized by intravascular glucan aggregates surrounded by neutrophils and foci of alveolar hemorrhage while later appearing granulomatous lesions (48 to 96 hours) were dominated by monocytes and macrophages. Granuloma formation was paralleled by a peripheral blood monocytosis. Analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid revealed an early, transient rise in tumor necrosis factor activity followed by a marked rise in monocyte-specific chemotactic activity. The rise in BAL fluid monocyte chemotactic activity, which coincided with the development of the monocyte/macrophage-rich granulomas, was preceded by a marked increase in whole lung MCP1 mRNA expression. BAL fluid monocyte chemotactic activity could be nearly completely neutralized with antibody directed against rat MCP1. These studies demonstrate that MCP1 mRNA expression is upregulated in glucan-induced pulmonary granulomatosis and that MCP1 is present in BAL fluid. Intrapulmonary granulomatosis may be important in the pathogenesis of granuloma formation.
Development and duration of protection against salmonellosis in mice and sheep immunised with live aromatic-dependent Salmonella typhimurium.	The aim of this investigation was to determine the development and duration of protection in mice or sheep immunised with aromatic-dependent (aro-) Salmonella typhimurium strain CS332, by either parenteral or oral routes. Immunisation of mice by the intraperitoneal or sheep by the intramuscular routes was found to impart protection against oral challenge with the virulent parent S typhimurium strain CS94 as early as seven days after immunisation. In contrast, when immunisation was carried out by the oral route, protection was not evident until three weeks after immunisation. Regardless of the route of immunisation, mice were still partially protected at three months and were fully susceptible at six months after immunisation. In sheep, protection persisted for six months but not 12 months after immunisation. Only parenterally immunised mice and sheep developed high ELISA and, or, agglutinating antibody titres, and cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) at three weeks after immunisation. Although both antibody and DTH were detectable three months after immunisation of mice with aro- S typhimurium strain CS332, none was detected at six months. Antibody measured by agglutination and ELISA was detectable six months after immunisation in sheep, although no DTH was evident. At 12 months after immunisation low levels of anti-LPS antibody (measurable by ELISA only) were detected in sheep immunised by the intramuscular route.
Lymph follicles and germinal centers in popliteal lymph nodes and other lymphoid tissues of germ-free and conventional rats.	A study was conducted to evaluate the influence of natural exogenous antigen stimulation on the development of lymph follicles in the peripheral lymphoid organs of the rat. The number of lymph follicles and germinal centers per popliteal node as well as the morphological features of popliteal nodes, mesenteric nodes and Peyer's patches were compared between 8-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats reared in germ-free, specific pathogen-free (SPF) and conventional environments. In mesenteric nodes and Peyer's patches from conventional and SPF rats, almost every follicle contained a germinal center. In the mesenteric nodes from germ-free rats, only 9 of 195 lymph follicles examined contained a germinal center, but interestingly, in Peyer's patches all the lymph follicles examined showed a fairly well developed germinal center. The popliteal nodes from germ-free rats had no germinal centers and each node contained about 80 lymph follicles. In six conventional rats and two of five SPF rats used, the number of lymph follicles per popliteal node usually ranged from 100 to 130, and some lymph follicles contained a germinal center. However, in the other three SPF rats the popliteal node on both sides showed no germinal center, and each contained almost the same number of lymph follicles as the popliteal nodes of other SPF and conventional rats. The present results are consistent with the view that even in the absence of exogenous antigen stimulation, a regional lymph node of the germ-free rat develops a substantial number of primary lymph follicles by way of a non-immunological cellular activity, and that natural exogenous antigens may influence the development of lymph follicles by stimulating the cellular activity rather than evoking the humoral immune responses.
Electron microscopic observation of the respiratory tract of SPF piglets inoculated with Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae.	Seven hysterectomy derived piglets were repeatedly challenged with Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae during the first week of life. Samples of trachea, bronchi and lung tissue collected 2-11 weeks post-inoculation (p.i.) were examined using light and electron microscopy. Autoradiography was used to study in more detail the site of M. hyopneumoniae multiplication. Gross lesions were observed in lung tissue and were characterized by hyperplasia of the epithelium and an increased mononuclear cell accumulation in perivascular and peribronchiolar areas. Mild lesions of the trachea and the bronchi, including epithelial hyperplasia and infiltration of the lamina propria by inflammatory cells, were noted. Electron microscopy showed that, 2-6 weeks p.i., changes in the mid-trachea and bronchi surface consisted of the loss of cilia. Mycoplasmas covered tufts of cilia remaining on the epithelial cell surface. Scanning and transmission electron micrographs showed that they were predominantly found closely associated with the top of cilia. No specialized terminal structure could be seen and no mycoplasma cells were identified lying free in the lumen nor in close contact with the plasma membrane of cells or microvilli. Some fine fibrils radiating from one mycoplasma to another or to cilia were seen at higher magnification by scanning electron microscopy. Six to eleven weeks p.i., a disrupted epithelial surface lacking cilia was observed. Cells were desquamated and shed into the lumen with cellular remains containing droplets of mucus. Autoradiography revealed that label corresponded to the observed mycoplasma distribution. At the top of cilia, a high density of labeling was visible in the zone of high mycoplasma concentration. Therefore, incorporation of the label in the mycoplasma is proof or their multiplication in the trachea. The intimate association between the mycoplasma and cilia may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of the disease caused by M. hyopneumoniae (swine enzootic pneumonia).
Response to repeated inoculations with Ascaris suum eggs in pigs during the fattening period. I. Studies on worm population kinetics.	This experimental study on pigs was designed to simulate natural, long-term exposure to Ascaris suum under modern management conditions. Parasite kinetics were followed in pigs receiving A. suum eggs as repeated trickle inoculations at two dose levels beginning at a body weight of 25 kg until their slaughter at 90 kg (baconers). In pigs inoculated twice weekly with 500 eggs, there was an initial marked rise in the numbers of hepatic milk spots, but as early as around week 6 after the start of inoculations and until week 16, at which time the last pigs were slaughtered, the numbers of spots diminished drastically. In pigs receiving only 25 eggs twice weekly, low and moderately fluctuating numbers of spots were seen throughout the experiment. Larvae recoverable from the livers and lungs were observed mainly during the beginning of the experiment. Before patency, immature intestinal worms were found in moderate numbers that showed a rough positive correlation with the dose levels, but at the time at which adult worms started to appear, immature parasites could practically no longer be found. In all, only 10 of 40 pigs harbored adults, and 4 of these 10 pigs harbored 80% of the total worm population. The results show that acquired dose-dependent host responses to A. suum play an important role in regulating the worm population along the migratory route of the parasite and that the final burden of worms in the small intestine is dose-dependent and highly variable.
Pharmacologic interactions between the resistance-modifying cyclosporine SDZ PSC 833 and etoposide (VP 16-213) enhance in vivo cytostatic activity and toxicity.	Cyclosporin A reverses multidrug resistance (MDR) and increases the in vivo cytostatic activity and toxicity of the anticancer agent etoposide (VP 16-213). SDZ PSC 833 (PSC 833), a non-immunosuppressive, non-toxic cyclosporin and very active modifier of P-gp 170-mediated MDR, elicits similar effects when administered with adriamycin. The underlying mechanisms, however, are not yet understood. The present pharmacological interaction study with PSC 833 and VP 16-213 was carried out to reveal the nature of this enhancement of cytostatic activity and toxicity. Rats pre-treated with either PSC-833 or solvent received a single dose of VP 16-213. Plasma levels of VP 16-213 were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The resulting increase in cytostatic activity and toxicity of VP 16-213 mediated by PSC 833 was paralleled by marked changes in the pharmacokinetic parameters of VP 16-213 in vivo. Bioavailability and blood levels of VP 16-213 were significantly increased 30 min after administration if PSC 833 had been given before. The disappearance rate of VP 16-213 from the intravascular compartment was considerably slowed down by PSC 833. In drug-sensitive xenografts of human colon carcinoma, the PSC-833-induced pharmacologic changes in vivo could be counteracted by dose reduction of VP 16-213 while a full therapeutic potential was maintained. Doses of VP 16-213, 1.5 to 2 times smaller, combined with PSC 833, were as effective in terms of tumor-growth inhibition as the maximum tolerated dose of VP 16-213 alone. Thus, pharmacologic interactions between PSC 833 or other resistance modifiers and VP 16-213 and other cytostatic agents require careful attention if they are to be used in humans to overcome MDR.
Evaluation of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of Eperythrozoon suis antibodies in swine.	An ELISA was developed and tested to detect antibodies to Eperythrozoon suis in swine. Results were compared with those of the indirect hemagglutination (IHA) test. Antigen isolated from swine heavily infected with E suis was used for both tests. Comparison of the ELISA with the IHA test revealed a significant (P less than 0.001) correlation between results. Of 114 samples obtained from 9 swine infected with E suis, 87.7% were seropositive (titer greater than or equal to 200) via the ELISA, and 80.7% were seropositive (titer greater than or equal to 20) via the IHA test. The sensitivity of the ELISA was greater than that of the IHA test. All blood samples obtained from specific-pathogen-free swine tested negative for E suis antibody. Cross-reactions were not observed between E suis antigen and antisera against various swine and cattle disease agents using ELISA. We concluded that the ELISA may be used for rapid and effective diagnosis of infection with E suis in swine.
Taurine depletion and cardiovascular disease in adult cats fed a potassium-depleted acidified diet.	Although low plasma taurine concentrations have been associated with congestive cardiomyopathy in cats, the cause of taurine depletion in cats consuming adequate quantities of taurine is unknown. Taurine depletion and cardiovascular disease (cardiomyopathy and thromboembolism) developed unexpectedly in 3 of 6 healthy adult cats during a potassium-depletion study. Plasma taurine concentration decreased significantly (P less than 0.05) and rapidly over an 8-week period (from 98 to 36 nmol/ml) in 6 cats that consumed a potassium-deficient diet (0.20% potassium, dry matter basis) that was acidified with 0.8% ammonium chloride, despite containing dietary taurine concentrations (0.12% dry matter basis) in excess of amounts currently recommended. Taurine concentrations were significantly lower in cats fed the acidified diet than in 6 cats fed a potassium-deficient diet that was not acidified (36 nmol/ml vs 75 nmol/ml) after 8 weeks. In addition, plasma taurine concentrations did not decrease over a 6-month period in 8 cats that were fed a potassium-replete diet with acidifier. Plasma taurine concentrations were lowest in 3 cats that died of cardiovascular disease in the group receiving potassium-deficient, acidified diets. These data indicated an association between taurine and potassium balance in cats and suggested that development of taurine depletion and cardiovascular disease may be linked to concurrent potassium depletion.
Zymosan-induced bacterial translocation: a study of mechanisms.	At nonlethal doses, zymosan induces a systemic inflammatory state and promotes bacterial translocation. This study was performed to investigate the mechanisms by which zymosan causes intestinal mucosal injury and bacterial translocation. Bacterial translocation to the mesenteric lymph node was measured 24 hrs after intraperitoneal challenge with saline or zymosan (0.1 mg) in normal (CD-1), congenitally macrophage-hyporesponsive (C3H/HeJ), complement-deficient (DBA/2), or mast cell-deficient (W/Wv) mice. Since zymosan-induced bacterial translocation may be mediated by xanthine oxidase-generated oxidants, bacterial translocation was measured in mice pretreated with the xanthine oxidase inhibitor, allopurinol. To further investigate the role of oxidants in zymosan-induced bacterial translocation, ileal and hepatic levels of xanthine oxidase, myeloperoxidase, conjugated dienes, malondialdehyde, and the antioxidants--superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, were measured.
Streptobacillus moniliformis isolated from otitis media of conventionally kept laboratory rats.	Streptobacillus moniliformis (Sm) was isolated from the middle ear of two inbred albino rats (strain CAP/Kuv) suffering from murine respiratory mycoplasmosis and purulent bilateral otitis media. The animals were kept under conventional conditions and used for immunological studies. The biochemical pattern of the isolate was identical with that of four other Sm strains of different origin but differed in its ability to lyse erythrocytes in sheep blood agar. This is the first Sm strain with hemolysis described. Pathogenicity of the strain was demonstrated in C57BL/6Han mice known to be susceptible to streptobacillosis. Three of five mice inoculated orally developed characteristic signs of a septic lymphadenitis. In the homologous system and with Sm strain ATCC 49567 as antigen, all five sera showed positive titers in the indirect immunofluorescence assay. Possible improvements in the diagnosis and the role of this "forgotten pathogen" in laboratory animal medicine are discussed.
Detection of serum antibodies in Eimeria tenella-infected chickens by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with merozoite and oocyst antigens.	Soluble antigens prepared from sporulated oocytes and second generation merozoites of E. tenella were used for enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to investigate antibody in sera of two breeds of chickens, i.e. commercial broilers and SPF single comb white leghorn layers, which were experimentally infected with E. tenella. In broilers inoculated with oocysts at 15 days of age, ELISA values increased rapidly after day 19 post inoculation (PI) and reached the maximum lebel on days 29 and 32 PI against both merozoite and oocyst antigen. The values against merozoite antigen were significantly higher than those against oocyst antigen. In SPF layers infected at 15 days of age, the values increased gradually after 7 days PI. There were no significant differences between values against two antigens. Generally, the values in broilers tended to be higher than those in SPF layers, especially against merozoite antigen. In broilers inoculated with oocysts at 1 and 15 days of age, ELISA values increased rapidly and reached the maximum level on days 11 and 20 post second inoculation (PSI) against merozoite and oocyst antigens respectively and then the values against merozoite antigen decreased. The values against merozoite antigen were markedly higher than those against oocyst antigen. In SPF layers inoculated twice, the values reached the highest on day 11 PSI as in the case of broiler; however, after that day, the values against both antigens decreased. The sera reacted similarly against both antigens. The values against merozoite antigen were significantly higher in broilers than in SPF layers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Experimental Trichosporon infection in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits: implications for pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of an emerging opportunistic mycosis.	Disseminated Trichosporon infection, an uncommon but emerging opportunistic mycosis due to Trichosporon beigelii, is frequently difficult to diagnose, refractory to treatment, and associated with a high attributable mortality. Models of disseminated and gastrointestinal Trichosporon infection were developed in persistently granulocytopenic rabbits. The patterns of infection resembled those of clinical disease, including cutaneous lesions, chorioretinitis, renal infection, pulmonary infection, and antigenemia cross-reactive with cryptococcal capsular polysaccharide. Antigenemia, an early manifestation of disseminated Trichosporon infection, originated in vivo from a fibrillar extracellular matrix. Trichosporon organisms disseminated from the gastrointestinal tract to visceral tissue in colonized immunosuppressed rabbits, whereas there was no dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract of otherwise normal rabbits. The antifungal triazoles, fluconazole and SCH 39304, were most active; maximum tolerated doses of amphotericin B and liposomal amphotericin B were ineffective. Trichosporon antigenemia declined in response to antifungal therapy. These findings contribute to improved understanding of the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of disseminated Trichosporon infection.
Effects of orchiectomy, alone or in combination with testosterone, and cyproterone acetate on exocrine pancreatic carcinogenesis in rats and hamsters.	The results of a previous 4-mo study in azaserine-treated rats and BOP-treated hamsters indicated that orchiectomy inhibited pancreatic growth and development of putative preneoplastic lesions in the exocrine pancreas of rats but not hamsters. This 12-mo study was carried out to investigate the effects of orchiectomy, alone and in combination with testosterone, and of treatment with cyproterone acetate on pancreatic carcinogenesis in azaserine-treated rats and BOP-treated hamsters. Treatment started 4 mo after injection of the carcinogen. In orchiectomized rats, pancreatic wt was lower than in controls, whereas pancreatic wt of orchiectomized rats treated with testosterone was similar to that of controls. Both orchiectomy and cyproterone acetate caused a decrease in body wt gain and had an inhibitory effect on pancreatic carcinogenesis. Testosterone treatment did not influence the inhibitory effects of orchiectomy on body wt gain and on pancreatic carcinogenesis. In hamsters, neither orchiectomy, alone or in combination with testosterone, nor cyproterone acetate (CA) affected pancreatic growth or pancreatic carcinogenesis. This study indicates that testosterone plays a minor role in the development of pancreatic tumors induced in rats by azaserine but not in that of pancreatic tumors induced in hamsters by BOP.
Dendritic cell-derived IL-2 production is regulated by IL-15 in humans and in mice.	Dendritic cells (DCs) are involved in the initiation and regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses. Several molecular mechanisms regulate these diverse DC functions, and we have previously reported that mouse dendritic cells (mDCs) can produce interleukin-2 (IL-2) in vitro and in vivo, in response to microbial activation and T-cell-mediated stimuli. This property is shared by different DC subtypes, including Langerhans cells. Here we show that, on appropriate stimulation, human DCs, both plasmacytoid and myeloid subtypes, also express IL-2. Interestingly, the production of IL-2 by myeloid DCs is induced by T-cell-mediated stimuli and depends on the presence of IL-15. The key role of this cytokine in regulating IL-2 production was also confirmed in the mouse system. In particular, we could show that DCs from IL-15-deficient mice were strongly impaired in the ability to produce IL-2 after interactions with different microbial stimuli. Our results indicate that DC-produced IL-2 is tightly coregulated with the expression of IL-15.
Extracellular matrix distribution and islet morphology in the early postnatal pancreas: anomalies in the non-obese diabetic mouse.	Previously, we reported elevated numbers of macrophages in the pancreas of NOD mice, a spontaneous animal model for T1D, during the early postnatal period. Extracellular matrix plays an important role in the tissue trafficking and retention of macrophages as well as in postnatal pancreas development. Therefore, we have examined the expression and distribution of laminin and fibronectin, two major extracellular matrix proteins and their corresponding integrin receptors, in the pre-weaning pancreases of NOD mice and control mouse strains. In addition, we have characterized the pancreas morphology during this period, since the morphology of the pre-weaning pancreas before the onset of lymphocytic peri-insulitis, when the pancreas is still subject to developmental changes, has been poorly documented. We show that laminin labeling is mainly associated with exocrine tissue, whereas fibronectin labeling was mostly localized at the islet-ductal pole, islet periphery and in intralobular septa. Moreover, the protein expression level of fibronectin was increased in NOD pancreases at the early stage of postnatal development, as compared to pancreases of C57BL/6 and BALB/c mouse strains. Interestingly, pancreatic macrophages were essentially found at sites of intense fibronectin labeling. The increased fibronectin content in NOD neonatal pancreas coincided with altered islet morphology, histologically reflected by enlarged and irregular shaped islets and increased percentages of total endocrine area as compared to that of control strains. In conclusion, increased levels of the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin were found in the early postnatal NOD pancreas, and this is associated with an enhanced accumulation of macrophages and altered islet morphology.
Villus epithelial injury induced by infection with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis is associated with upregulation of granzyme B.	Intestinal parasite infections induce thymus-dependent villus atrophy, but the effector mechanisms directly responsible for the development of villus atrophy are not thoroughly understood. In this study, we analyzed the expression of cytotoxic factors or ligands in athymic nude rnu/rnu rats and their littermate euthymic rnu/+ rats infected with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. Morphometric analyses showed that partial villus atrophy developed 10 days after infection in euthymic but not in athymic rats, whereas crypt hyperplasia occurred in both types of animal. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses of the isolated jejunal epithelial fraction showed that the development of villus atrophy in euthymic rats was positively correlated with an increase of granzyme B transcript levels but not with Fas ligand or tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression. In addition, the number of granzyme B-immunoreactive cells was increased significantly in euthymic rat villus epithelium and the propria mucosa after infection. The CD8+ cell number did not change significantly. Collectively, these findings showed that significant increases in the number of cells that express the cytotoxic factor granzyme B occur in the nematode-infected small intestine of immunocompetent hosts. The type of cells that express granzyme B and their role in the progression of enteropathy remain to be elucidated.
Human metapneumovirus persists in BALB/c mice despite the presence of neutralizing antibodies.	Human metapneumovirus (HMPV) has emerged as an important human respiratory pathogen causing upper and lower respiratory tract infections in young children and older adults. Recent epidemiological evidence indicates that HMPV may cocirculate with respiratory syncytial virus, and HMPV infection has been associated with other respiratory diseases. In this study, we show that BALB/c mice are susceptible to HMPV infection, the virus replicates in the lungs with biphasic growth kinetics in which peak titers occur at days 7 and 14 postinfection (p.i.), and infectious HMPV can be recovered from lungs up to day 60 p.i. In addition, we show that genomic HMPV RNA can be detected in the lungs for >/=180 days p.i. by reverse transcription-PCR; however, neither HMPV RNA nor infectious virus can be detected in serum, spleen, kidneys, heart, trachea, and brain tissue. Lung histopathology revealed prevalent mononuclear cell infiltration in the interstitium beginning at day 2 p.i. and peaking at day 4 p.i. which decreased by day 14 p.i. and was associated with airway remodeling. Increased mucus production evident at day 2 p.i. was concordant with increased bronchial and bronchiolar inflammation. HMPV-specific antibodies were detected by day 14 p.i., neutralizing antibody titers reached >/=6.46 log(2) end-point titers by day 28 p.i., and depletion of T cells or NK cells resulted in increased HMPV titers in the lungs, suggesting some immune control of viral persistence. This study shows that BALB/c mice are amenable for HMPV studies and indicates that HMPV persists as infectious virus in the lungs of normal mice for several weeks postinfection.
Effects of passive transfer of immunity on results of diagnostic tests for antibodies against feline immunodeficiency virus in kittens born to vaccinated queens.	To determine whether passive transfer of immunity affects results of diagnostic tests for antibodies against FIV in kittens born to vaccinated queens.
Effect of vaccination against feline immunodeficiency virus on results of serologic testing in cats.	To determine the effect of vaccination against FIV on results of serologic assays for FIV infection.
Microsatellite analysis in FVB/N mice.	The purpose of the study reported here was to identify, by size, a set of microsatellite markers for use in diagnostic genetic monitoring of FVB/N mouse colonies. A large panel of microsatellite markers were chosen on the basis oftheir high degree of allelic variability. These markers were then tested for their ability to amplify well under a standard set of polymerase chain reaction analysis conditions and to present an easily identifiable band on an agarose gel. From this panel, we chose at least one marker on each chromosome that amplified well under our standard high-throughput conditions. Using this approach, we identified the allele sizes for 27 microsatellite markers in the FVB/N strain of mice. Each autosomal chromosome and the X chromosome were analyzed using at least one locus marker. We have determined a precise size for FVB/N microsatellite alleles, as opposed to a description of size in relation to that of a known allele.
Evaluation of liposome-encapsulated oxymorphone hydrochloride in mice after splenectomy.	The use of mice in biomedical research is increasing, largely due to the production and use of genetically engineered animals. Providing postoperative pain control in mice presents many challenges, and long-acting analgesic preparations would be advantageous for this species. A single subcutaneous injection of a liposome-encapsulated (LE) preparation of oxymorphone was compared with multiple injections of buprenorphine or saline in outbred mice undergoing splenectomy. Control groups were given isoflurane alone or isoflurane and an injection of LE oxymorphone but did not undergo surgery. The following parameters were evaluated for 5 days after surgery and were compared with presurgical baseline data for each group: food and water consumption, body weight, ethographic score, and voluntary exercise on a running wheel. Ethographic scores indicated less postsurgical pain in both groups of mice that received either analgesic preparation compared with mice that received only saline. However, mice given LE oxymorphone had superior postoperative recovery, as measured by wheel-running distance and body weight gain, compared with mice given buprenorphine or saline. Mice undergoing splenectomy had significant decreases in body weight, food and water consumption, voluntary exercise, and other normal behaviors. Administration of liposomal oxymorphone at the time of surgery improved postsurgical recovery as measured by these parameters compared with multiple injections of buprenorphine or saline alone. Administration of LE oxymorphone at the time of surgery improved postsurgical recovery, as measured by these parameters.
Scratching of their skin by NC/Nga mice leads to development of dermatitis.	Effects of scratching behavior on dermatitis, transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and serum IgE concentrations were examined in NC/Nga (NC) mice with toenails (WIT) and without toenails (WOT). The first study was a preventive treatment done to cut off hind toenails before dermatitis induction and the second study was a therapeutic treatment by cutting off hind toenails of NC mice with severe dermatitis. In the preventive study, scratching behavior significantly increased in both WIT and WOT after dermatitis induction. Skin severity score, TEWL, number of mast cells and serum IgE concentration statistically increased in WIT but not in WOT after dermatitis induction. Histological changes coincided with the skin severity score in WIT, while no changes were observed in WOT. In the therapeutic study, skin severity score in WOT but not in WIT statistically decreased after cutting off the hind toenails. TEWL and numbers of mast cells in WOT were statistically lower compared with findings in WIT. Thus scratching up the skin with toenails seemed to be the most important factor leading to dermatitis in NC mice.
Evaluation of lipopolysaccharide and capsular polysaccharide as subunit vaccines against experimental melioidosis.	Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, which is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in endemic regions. Currently there is no human vaccine against melioidosis. In this study, LPS or capsular polysaccharide was used to immunize BALB/c mice. The different polysaccharide antigens induced antibody responses. Mice vaccinated with LPS developed predominantly IgM and IgG3 responses. Contrastingly, mice vaccinated with capsular polysaccharide developed a predominantly IgG2b response. After immunization, mice were challenged by the intra-peritoneal route and an increased mean time to death was observed compared with unvaccinated controls. Immunization with LPS provided an optimal protective response. Mice challenged by the aerosol route showed a small increase in the mean time to death compared with the unvaccinated controls. The passive transfer of antigen from immunized into naive mice provided protection against a subsequent challenge. This study is the first time antigens protective by active immunization have been identified and suggests that polysaccharides have potential as vaccine candidates against melioidosis.
Inhibition of choroidal neovascularization by a peptide inhibitor of the urokinase plasminogen activator and receptor system in a mouse model.	To determine the role played by the urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) and urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) system in choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and whether inhibition of this system can suppress the extent of CNV in an animal model.
Sex hormones modulate distant organ injury in both a trauma/hemorrhagic shock model and a burn model.	Emerging data suggest a gender dimorphism in resistance and susceptibility to distant organ injury after mechanical and thermal trauma. The aim of this study was to determine the role that testosterone and estradiol play in modulating resistance or susceptibility to distant organ injury, and whether their effects were associated with differences in the production of nitric oxide.
Prevention of infectious bursal disease (IBD) by feeding IBD virus-immune bovine colostrum.	Addition of 5% freeze-dried IBD virus (IBDV)-immune bovine colostrum to the diet of chickens prevented infection when housed in an IBDV-contaminated environment. Four of five chickens receiving 2.5%, and all chickens receiving 0.5% or no IBDV-immune colostrum were infected. No interference with development of an active immunity was found in chickens receiving 5% IBDV-immune colostrum in their diet and vaccinated intramuscularly with modified IBDV.
Reduced nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB p65 in the footpad epidermis of dogs infected with distemper virus.	Infection of canine footpads with the canine distemper virus (CDV) can cause massive epidermal thickening (hard pad disease), as a consequence of increased proliferation of keratinocytes and hyperkeratosis. Keratinocytes of canine footpad epidermis containing detectable CDV nucleoprotein antigen and CDV mRNA were shown previously to have increased proliferation indices. Because various proteins that play a role in the proliferation of epidermal cells are viral targets, the potential participation of such proteins in CDV-associated keratinocyte proliferation was investigated. Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), cell cycle regulatory proteins p21, p27 and p53, and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB transcription factor components p50 and p65 were studied in the footpad epidermis from the following groups of dogs inoculated with CDV: group 1, consisting of seven dogs with clinical distemper and CDV in the footpad epidermis; group 2, consisting of four dogs with clinical distemper but no CDV in the footpad epidermis; group 3, consisting of eight dogs with neither clinical distemper nor CDV in the footpad epithelium. Group 4 consisted of two uninoculated control dogs. The expression of TGF-alpha, p21, p27 and p53, and p50 in the basal layer, lower and upper spinous layers, and in the granular layer did not differ statistically between CDV-positive (group 1) and CDV-negative (groups 2-4) footpad epidermis. However, there were differences in the levels of nuclear and cytoplasmic p65 expression between group 1 dogs and the other three groups. Thus, footpads from group 1 dogs had more keratinocytes containing p65 in the cytoplasm and, conversely, fewer nuclei that were positive for p65. These findings indicate that p65 translocation into the nucleus is reduced in CDV-infected footpad epidermis. Such decreased translocation of p65 may help to explain increased keratinocyte proliferation in hard pad disease and suggests interference of CDV with the NF-kappaB pathway.
Pristane-induced autoimmunity in germ-free mice.	Hypergammaglobulinemia and autoantibodies are reduced in pristane-treated specific pathogen-free mice vs. conventionally housed controls, consistent with the role of microbial stimulation in this model. To determine whether microbial stimulation is required, BALB/c mice housed under germ-free conditions were treated i.p. with sterile PBS or pristane and examined 6 months later. As in conventional mice, pristane-treated germ-free mice developed peritoneal granulomas and hypergammaglobulinemia with increased IgG2a/IgG1 ratios. LPS stimulation induced more IL-6, IL-12, and TNF-alpha, and anti-CD3 induced more IFN-gamma and IL-4 by peritoneal cells from pristane-treated mice vs. control. Anti-nRNP/Sm and -Su autoantibodies were found in 40% and 43%, respectively, of pristane-treated germ-free mice by immunoprecipitation. Thus, bacterial stimulation was not required for lupus autoantibodies, peritoneal granuloma formation, hypergammaglobulinemia, or cytokine overproduction. Although microbial stimulation acts synergistically with pristane, these results clearly indicate that pristane does not act merely by increasing exposure to microbial products such as LPS.
Comparative analysis of the fate of donor dendritic cells and B cells and their influence on alloreactive T cell responses under tacrolimus immunosuppression.	We have shown that tacrolimus (TAC)-induced liver allograft acceptance is associated with migration and persistence of donor B cells and dendritic cells (DC). To clarify whether these MHC class II+ leukocytes have favorable roles in inducing tolerance, we analyzed recipient T cell reactions after allogeneic B or DC infusion. LEW rat B cells localized exclusively in BN host B cell follicles without any direct contact with host T cells. While few donor DC migrated to T cell areas and marginal zones, they were captured by host APC, suggesting that allogeneic MHC class II+ cells may induce immune reactions via the indirect pathway. Although DC-infused non-immunosuppressed recipients showed enhanced ex vivo anti-donor responses, persistent in vitro donor-specific hyporeactivity was seen equally with donor DC or B cell infusion under TAC. The results indicate that donor MHC class II+ APC are capable of regulating recipient immune reactions under TAC. Possible involvement of the indirect pathway of allorecognition is discussed.
Preliminary investigation of the use of high frequency ultrasound imaging in the chick embryo.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of using high frequency ultrasound to study the chick embryo in a noninvasive and longitudinal fashion.
Origin of macrophages in a kaolin-induced model of rat syringomyelia: a study using radiation bone marrow chimeras.	Animal experimental study.
Changes in the immunoglobulin levels of the mouse gut and serum during conventionalisation and following administration of Salmonella typhimurium.	Increasess in all immunoglobulin classes, except IgM, were observed in the sera of specific pathogen-free (SPF) mice beginning 10 days after their removal from barrier conditions. Concentrations of serum immunoglobulins, comparable with those of conventional mice, were obtained in these animals between 21 and 35 days. Following the removal of germ-free mice from their sterile isolaters, their intestinal IgA levels increased over 35 days to attain levels found in conventional animals. A marked increase in serum immunoglobulin occurred within one day following intravenous administration of live Salmonella typhimurium organisms to SPF animals, and this persisted for longer than 7 weeks (the duration of the study), This rapid elevation in serum immunoglobulin was not elicited by nonbacterial antigens, killed Salmonellae, or viable Vibrio cholerae. Negligible amounts of this immunoglobulin increase could be attributed to specific antibody.
Canine distemper virus-induced depletion of uninfected lymphocytes is associated with apoptosis.	Canine distemper virus (CDV), a negative stranded RNA morbillivirus, causes a multisystemic disease in dogs, which is associated with a severe immune suppression. The aim of the study was to examine the influence of early CDV infection on leukocyte depletion, lymphopenia and virus-induced cell death in dogs infected with a virulent CDV strain. From 10 infected dogs, peripheral blood leukocytes were harvested periodically, phenotyped and analyzed for CDV antigen content and apoptosis using Annexin V-FITC and propidium iodide labeling. CDV infection induced a severe CD3+ T cell and CD21+ B cell depletion in all animals at 3 days post-infection (d.p.i.). For dogs with severe distemper, developing virus persistence in the lymphoid tissue and central nervous system, this lymphopenia lasted until the end of the experiment. Increased levels of lymphocyte apoptosis were found at 3 d.p.i., and monocyte apoptosis at 6 d.p.i. This was more prominent in the group of animals with severe distemper. At 3 d.p.i. no leukocyte infection was detectable indicating that the early lymphocyte depletion and apoptosis was not a direct consequence of virus infection. Taken together, our results demonstrate that CDV-induced lymphopenia is an early event and that the degree of lymphocyte depletion correlates with the severity of disease and virus persistence in the lymphoid tissue and central nervous system.
Expression patterns of chicken Toll-like receptor mRNA in tissues, immune cell subsets and cell lines.	The Toll-like receptor (TLR) family of cell surface molecules represent a major component of the pattern recognition system, which enables both vertebrates and invertebrates to detect invading microorganisms and mount an anti-microbial response. The TLR repertoire of mouse and man has been intensively studied and in this manuscript we report the identification of ESTs with homology to chTLR5 and chTLR7, and independently confirm the identification of chTLR 1/6/10 and 3 in the EST databases. We have determined the mRNA expression patterns for seven chicken TLRs (chTLR) in a wide range of chicken tissues, isolated immune cell types and cultured cells. Some of the chTLR were expressed in most tissues (chTLR1/6/10, chTLR3, chTLR4 and chTLR5), whereas others exhibited more restricted expression patterns (chTLR2 type 1, type 2 and chTLR7). Similarly distinct patterns of chTLR expression were seen with innate and adaptive immune cell types isolated from peripheral blood or spleen and with cultured cells of somatic or immunological origin. An understanding of the TLR repertoire for different tissues, immune cell subsets and cultured cell types allows more refined interpretation of immune induction in response to chicken pathogens.
Immunological effects of partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan from corn husk in mice.	The effect of oral administration of partially hydrolyzed water-soluble corn husk arabinoxylan (CHAX), the average molecular weight of which is about 53 kDa, on immunopotentiating activity was investigated in mice. Oral administration of CHAX to healthy mice significantly augmented the production of interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon (IFN)-gamma with a slight increase in IL-4 in mitogen-induced proliferation of spleen cells. Natural killer (NK) cell activity in spleen cells from mice, which were transplanted tumor and administrated CHAX, was augmented about 2-fold. In model mice of atopic dermatitis, the average ear thickness of mice administrated CHAX was induced by dinitrophenyl-fluorobenzene (DNFB) after injection of an anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP)-IgE monoclonal antibody was much smaller than that in control animals. These results suggest that CHAX has the ability to increase the level of immunopotentiating activity without causing over response of immunological reaction even if it is administrated orally to mice.
Herpes B-virus seroreactivity in a colony of Macaca mulatta: data from the Sabana Seca Field Station, a new specific pathogen-free program.	The demand for B-virus-free animals for biomedical research is increasing, while at the same time the availability of such animals is decreasing. The establishment of Specific Pathogen-Free (SPF) breeding macaque colonies is a priority of the National Institutes of Health. Nevertheless, it is well known that seroreactivity to B-virus can be difficult to interpret, particularly as it can vary over time in a single animal. The aim of the present study was to implement a reliable algorithm to examine B-virus reactivity among the rhesus monkey population of the Caribbean Primate Research Center. The sensitivity and specificity of our assay were determined using reports from two different laboratories as references. Whereas 95.4% of animals showed consistent serological status and 4.6% of animals recruited to this SPF program showed serovariability to B-virus over the initial 2 years of examination. Implications for all SPF programs are discussed in this article.
The role of Kupffer cells after major liver surgery.	Kupffer cells (KCs) are the resident macrophages of the liver. KCs have an enormous endotoxin eliminating capacity. Endotoxins play an important role in the development of systemic complications after partial hepatectomy by activating KCs. The role of KCs and endotoxins after partial hepatectomy is investigated.
Macrophage-derived lipoprotein lipase increases aortic atherosclerosis in cholesterol-fed Tg rabbits.	Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) produced by macrophages is upregulated in the atherosclerotic lesions; however, it is not fully understood whether increased macrophage-derived LPL is pro-atherogenic. To examine the hypothesis that macrophage-derived LPL in the arterial wall enhances atherosclerotic lesion formation, we generated transgenic (Tg) rabbits that express the human LPL transgene under the control of the human scavenger receptor enhancer/promoter, which drives macrophage-specific expression of the human LPL gene. We fed Tg and non-Tg littermate rabbits a diet containing 0.3% cholesterol for 16 weeks and compared their lipoproteins and aortic atherosclerosis. We found that there was no difference in plasma lipid or lipoprotein profiles between Tg and non-Tg rabbits; however, atherosclerotic lesions were significantly increased in Tg compared to non-Tg rabbits. There was a 1.4-fold increase in total aortic en face lesions and a 2-fold increase in intimal lesions evaluated by image analysis system. Furthermore, immunohistochemical staining revealed that the increased atherosclerotic lesions present in Tg rabbits were characterized by marked accumulation of macrophage-derived foam cells and frequently associated with the deposition of oxidized LDL. These results support the notion that macrophage-derived LPL in the arterial wall is pro-atherogenic, possibly via the enhancement of foam cell formation during atherogenesis.
Efferent-mediated adaptation of the DPOAE as a predictor of aminoglycoside toxicity.	Rapid efferent adaptation of the distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) predicts susceptibility to noise-induced damage, and is linked to the concentration of the efferent receptor (alpha9). Maximum adaptation occurs at intense primary levels, rapidly switching from positive to negative orientation in a very narrow (2 dB) range of F1 and F2 levels. Aminoglycosides are commonly used antibiotics, with the undesirable side-effect of ototoxicity. Susceptibility to hair cell damage from the aminoglycoside gentamicin can be quite variable, even within a single strain and species of animal. Since one of gentamicin's first sites of action in the outer hair cell (OHC) is at the efferent receptor, it is possible that efferent activity could be a predictor of susceptibility to gentamicin induced damage. Significant sex-related differences were found in two strains of guinea pigs when treated with gentamicin. Female guinea pigs were more susceptible both to systemic effects and to specific ototoxic effects. Efferent-mediated DPOAE adaptation served as a predictor of sensitivity to aminoglycoside damage, predicting both number of days before onset of deafness in male animals, and predicting final threshold shifts from gentamicin doses which produced variable results.
First record of Trichinella pseudospiralis in the Slovak Republic found in domestic focus.	Infection of Trichinella spp. is widespread among wildlife in Slovakia and the red fox (Vulpes vulpes) is the main reservoir of Trichinella britovi. Trichinella spiralis has been rarely documented in sylvatic and domestic animals of this country. During routine examination of domestic pigs at the slaughter, Trichinella larvae were detected by artificial digestion in a domestic pig of a large-scale breeding farm in Eastern Slovakia. The parasite has been identified by molecular (PCR) and biochemical (allozymes) analyses and by the morphology of the nurse cell as the non-encapsulated species Trichinella pseudospiralis infecting both mammals and birds. The epidemiological investigation carried out at the farm level revealed the presence of the same parasite species in other three pigs of 192 examined (2.1%), in 3 of 14 (21.4%) examined synanthropic rats (Rattus norvegicus) and in a domestic cat. The farm was characterized by inadequate sanitary conditions, insufficient nutrition, cannibalism and the presence of rat population. A different profile has been observed at the phosphoglucomutase locus in T. pseudospiralis isolates from Slovakia in comparison with the T. pseudospiralis reference isolate from the Palearctic region. This is the first documented focus of T. pseudospiralis from Central Europe. The detection in domestic pigs of a non-encapsulated parasite infecting both mammals and birds stresses the need to avoid the use of trichinelloscopy to detect this infection at the slaughterhouse.
Health surveillance of specific pathogen-free and conventionally-housed mice and rats in Korea.	The present study contains information about proper microbiological monitoring of laboratory animals' health and the standardization of microbiological monitoring methods in Korea. Microbiological quality control for laboratory animals, composed of biosecurity and health surveillance, is essential to guard against research complications and public health dangers that have been associated with adventitious infections. In this study, one hundred and twenty-two mice and ninety rats from laboratory animal breeding companies and one animal facility of the national universities in Korea were monitored in 2000-2003. Histopathologically, thickening of the alveolar walls and lymphocytic infiltration around the bronchioles were observed in mice and rats from microbiologically contaminated facilities. Cryptosporidial oocysts were observed in the gastric pits of only conventionally-housed mice and rats. Helicobacter spp. infection was also detected in 1 of 24 feces DNA samples in mice and 9 of 40 feces DNA samples in rats by PCR in 2003, but they were not Helicobacter hepaticus. This paper describes bacteriological, parasitological, and virological examinations of the animals.
Immunogenicity of a locally produced Newcastle disease I-2 thermostable vaccine in chickens in Uganda.	A locally-produced Newcastle disease (ND) I-2 thermostable vaccine of embryo-infective dose (EID50) 10(8.5) per ml was administered to 100 laboratory chickens in four test groups, each of 25 birds. It was given by the eye-drop method, in drinking water, in drinking water freshly medicated with levamisole, or using millet grains as a vaccine carrier. A fifth control group consisting of 25 birds received the heat-sensitive La Sota vaccine (EID50 10(9) per ml) by the eye-drop method. The immunological responses were monitored by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) ND antibody technique using serum samples collected from 18 birds in each group at 3-week intervals for 3 months. The overall mean ND antibody log(10) titres and percentage positivities were 3.1, 88%; 2.9, 70%; 3.0, 83%; 3.2, 87% and 3.3, 87%, respectively. The use of water alone or medicated with levamisole for vaccine administration produced significantly lower ND antibody titres only in the first 3 weeks. The immunogenicity shown by the I-2 vaccine as a potential vaccine is discussed in relation to free-range poultry management conditions in Uganda.
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 is elevated, but not essential, in the development of bleomycin-induced murine scleroderma.	Accumulative data have demonstrated that plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) plays an important role in the extracellular matrix metabolism; however, the involvement of PAI-1 in scleroderma has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated the role of PAI-1 in bleomycin-induced murine scleroderma. 100 microg of bleomycin was injected subcutaneously to the back skin of C3H/HeJ mice on alternate day for 4 weeks. Histopathological findings revealed that PAI-1 was positive in macrophage-like cells and fibroblastic cells in the dermis, in parallel with the induction of dermal sclerosis. PAI-1 mRNA expression in the whole skin was up-regulated at 1 and 4 weeks. The production of active PAI-1 protein in the lesional skin was significantly increased 3 and 4 weeks after bleomycin treatment. Next, we examined whether dermal sclerosis is induced by bleomycin in PAI-1-deficient (PAI-1-/-) mice. 10 microg of bleomycin was subcutaneously injected to PAI-1-/- and wild type (WT) mice 5 days per week for 4 weeks. Histological examination revealed that dermal sclerosis was similarly induced even in PAI-1-/- as well as WT mice. Dermal thickness and collagen contents in the skin were significantly increased by bleomycin injection in both PAI-1-/- and WT mice, and the rate of increase was similar. These data suggest that PAI-1 plays an important role, possibly via TGF-beta pathway activation. However, the fact that PAI-1 deficiency did not ameliorate skin sclerosis suggest that PAI-1 is not the essential factor in the development of bleomycin-induced scleroderma, and more complex biochemical effects other than PA/plasmin system are greatly suspected.
The Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum-sensing molecule N-3-(oxododecanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone inhibits T-cell differentiation and cytokine production by a mechanism involving an early step in T-cell activation.	The Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum-sensing molecule N-3-(oxododecanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (OdDHL) has been reported to have immunomodulatory activity in several systems, although the mechanism of that activity remains to be fully characterized. We demonstrate here, using a defined in vitro model of antigen responses by T-cell receptor (TCR)-transgenic mouse splenic CD4 T cells, that the effect of OdDHL on activation and cytokine production is complete within 4 h of antigen or mitogen stimulation and does not depend on the insertion of OdDHL in the cell membrane, despite a previous report that immunosuppression by homoserine lactones required a minimum acyl chain length of 11 carbons (S. R. Chhabra, C. Harty, D. S. W. Hooi, M. Daykin, B. W. Bycroft, P. Williams, and D. Pritchard, J. Med. Chem. 46:97-104, 2003). We also demonstrate that while OdDHL can have toxic effects on nonlymphoid leukocytes, it does not induce significant cell death in T cells at the concentrations (< or =10 microM) used in these experiments. In addition, we show that primary and secondary antigen-specific cytokine responses are equally susceptible to inhibition by OdDHL and that the compound inhibits the differentiation of both Th1 and Th2 cells. However, the precise balance of cytokine production by CD4 T cells stimulated in the presence of OdDHL varies with both the antigen concentration and its affinity for the transgenic TCR. Thus, conflicting reports of the nature of the immunosuppression by OdDHL may be due in part to the differences in antigen affinity and concentration in different models.
Gastric helicobacter infection induces a Th2 phenotype but does not elevate serum cholesterol in mice lacking inducible nitric oxide synthase.	Persistent Helicobacter felis infection in (C57BL/6 x 129SvEv)F1 mice induces chronic gastritis. Expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is upregulated in response to Helicobacter infection. In this study, 20 10-week-old iNOS-/- mice and 20 wild-type [(C57BL/6 x 129SvEv)F1] mice were infected with H. felis by oral gavage and were assessed histologically and serologically at 32 weeks postinfection. Equal numbers of uninfected controls were sham inoculated. The mice were scored for severity of gastric inflammation, hyperplasia, glandular atrophy, and mucous metaplasia in the corpus and for the level of helicobacter colonization. The immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1), IgG2a, and IgG2c antibody responses to H. felis were determined. As a secondary measure, serum cholesterol levels were assessed. iNOS-/- mice have a propensity for increased serum cholesterol, and although controversial, several human epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an association between Helicobacter infection and several risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including elevated serum cholesterol. Nevertheless, no differences in serum cholesterol levels were observed between the H. felis-infected and -uninfected iNOS-/- mice in this study. The uninfected animals had minimal to no gastric pathology. The gastric pathology scores for the infected animals were reduced significantly in the iNOS-deficient mice relative to those for the wild-type mice (all P <0.01). Helicobacter-infected iNOS-/- mice had chronic lymphoid infiltration and negligible to mild glandular atrophy and mucous metaplasia in the fundic mucosa, while H. felis-infected wild-type mice had severe atrophic and metaplastic mucosal changes. The atrophic gastritis in the infected wild-type mice, particularly the female mice, was also accompanied by greater granulocytic infiltration, antral hyperplasia, and diminished antral colonization, unlike that in the infected iNOS-/- mice. iNOS-/- mice developed significantly lower Th1-associated IgG2c antibody responses to H. felis (P <0.0003); the Th2-associated IgG1 responses were similar (P=0.09), suggesting a greater effect of the iNOS defect on Th1 responses. H. felis colonization was significantly greater in the iNOS-deficient mice. These findings are indicative of an impaired Th1 component of the H. felis-induced inflammatory response when the influence of iNOS is removed.
Role for flagella but not intimin in the persistent infection of the gastrointestinal tissues of specific-pathogen-free chicks by shiga toxin-negative Escherichia coli O157:H7.	Shiga toxin (Stx)-positive Escherichia coli O157:H7 readily colonize and persist in specific-pathogen-free (SPF) chicks, and we have shown that an Stx-negative E. coli O157:H7 isolate (NCTC12900) readily colonizes SPF chicks for up to 169 days after oral inoculation at 1 day of age. However, the role of intimin in the persistent colonization of poultry remains unclear. Thus, to investigate the role of intimin and flagella, which is a known factor in the persistence of non-O157 E. coli in poultry, isogenic single- and double-intimin and aflagellar mutants were constructed in E. coli O157:H7 isolate NCTC12900. These mutants were used to inoculate (10(5) CFU) 1-day-old SPF chicks. In general, significant attenuation of the aflagellate and intimin-aflagellate mutants, but not the intimin mutant, was noted at similar time points between 22 and 92 days after inoculation. The intimin-deficient mutant was still being shed at the end of the experiment, which was 211 days after inoculation, 84 days more than the wild type. Shedding of the aflagellar and intimin-aflagellar mutants ceased 99 and 113 days after inoculation, respectively. Histological analysis of gastrointestinal tissues from inoculated birds gave no evidence for true microcolony formation by NCTC12900 or intimin and aflagellar mutants to epithelial cells. However, NCTC12900 mutant derivatives associated with the mucosa were observed as individual cells and/or as large aggregates. Association with luminal contents was also noted. These data suggest that O157 organisms do not require intimin for the persistent colonization of chickens, whereas flagella do play a role in this process.
Clinicopathological characterization of monkey B virus (Cercopithecine herpesvirus 1) infection in mice.	The purpose of this study was to establish a small animal model for monkey B virus (BV) infection. Mice were inoculated intramuscularly with several BV isolates. Comparisons were based upon the doses required to produce infection (ID50), non-central nervous system (CNS) clinical disease (CS50), CNS disease (CNSD50) and lethal effect (LD50). Strains differed in respect of the dose required to produce clinical disease in BALB/c mice. C57BL/6 mice were more resistant than BALB/c mice to CNS disease. Skin lesions at the inoculation site consisted of epidermal necrosis, ulceration, serocellular crusts and underlying dermatitis. CNS lesions included marked inflammation in the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglion and lumbar spinal cord (point of viral entry). The distribution of the lumbar spinal cord lesions suggested viral entry via sensory afferent neurons, ventral motor tracts, or both. The lesions in the more cranial spinal cord segments suggested ascension to the brain via bilateral spinothalamic and spinoreticular tracts. Brain lesions included encephalitis with neuronal necrosis and white matter destruction located consistently at the base of the brainstem, the reticular system, and rostrally to the thalamus and hypothalamus. Viral antigen was detected immunohistochemically in the lesions. The results indicated an ascending encephalomyelitis syndrome similar to that produced by BV in man.
Immunisation with a combination of two complementary feline calicivirus strains induces a broad cross-protection against heterologous challenges.	Feline calicivirus (FCV) is characterised by a high degree of antigenic variation potentially compromising vaccine efficacy. Inclusion of several FCV strains or antigens in current vaccines could be a means to improve protection against antigenically distinct isolates. This study evaluated the synergy between two FCV strains (FCVG1 and FCV431) by comparing immunity induced by either strain with that provided by a combination of the two strains against an heterologous challenge with antigenically distant FCV strains (FCV393 and FCV220). Thirty-two SPF kittens were randomly allocated to four groups of eight cats in each group. Groups B, C and D cats were vaccinated once subcutaneously with strains FCVG1, FCV431, and FCVG1 + FCV431, respectively. Each kitten received a total dose of 10(3.4) CCID50 of FCV. Control group A was not immunised. On day 31, four cats from each group were challenged oronasally with FCV220 and four cats with FCV393. Following challenge, the cats were monitored for clinical signs, viral shedding and antibody responses. FCV220 and FCV393 induced severe clinical signs in control cats typical of FCV infection. Immunisation with both strains mixed together induced higher neutralizing antibody titres against FCV220 and FCV393 strains on average. Protection was observed in all groups, however combination of the two strains resulted in a better clinical protection and reduction of virus shedding after heterologous challenge. A moderate correlation was observed between neutralizing antibody titres at the time of challenge and protection against clinical signs. These results indicated that vaccines combining antigens from different FCV strains may induce a broader heterologous protection.
Mutations in feline immunodeficiency (FIV) virus envelope gene V3-V5 regions in FIV-infected cats.	The envelope (Env) gene V3-V5 regions of the feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) encode the neutralizing epitopes. Since mutations in these regions induce resistance to viral neutralizing antibodies, they may influence the effects of vaccines. To examine the in vivo mutation rate in these regions, we cloned cDNA for the Env gene V3-V5 regions from the PBMC of experimentally FIV-infected cats, and compared the deduced amino acid sequences. Blood or plasma from an FIV Shizuoka strain-infected cat was inoculated into a second group of SPF cats, and their blood or plasma was inoculated into the third group. The amino acid sequence encoded by the viral gene of the first cat was compared with those encoded by the viral genes of a total of eight cats in the second and third groups (two and six cats, respectively). The amino acid sequences in two cats in the second and third groups were 100% homologous and in one cat in the third group was 98.3% homologous to that in the first infected cat. Five cats had the same sequence, which was 97.8% homologous to that in the first infected cat. Three kittens, born 2 months after the inoculation of the FIV Aomori-2 strain into the mother cat, were anti-FIV negative at 4 weeks after birth, but became seropositive at 33 weeks after birth, confirming FIV infection. Comparison of the encoded amino acid sequences of the viral gene in two cats at 48 weeks after birth showed 100% homology to that of the virus inoculated into the mother cat, and the remaining one cat had a single residue substitution, resulting in 99.4% homology. These results suggest that the FIV Env gene V3-V5 regions are stably maintained for at least 1-2 years after infection.
Persistence of Mycoplasma gallisepticum in chickens after treatment with enrofloxacin without development of resistance.	The ability of the avian pathogen Mycoplasma gallisepticum to persist despite fluoroquinolone treatment was investigated in chickens. Groups of specific pathogen free chickens were experimentally infected with M. gallisepticum and treated with enrofloxacin at increasing concentrations up to the therapeutic dose. When M. gallisepticum could no longer be re-isolated from chickens, birds were stressed by inoculation of infectious bronchitis virus or avian pneumovirus. Although M. gallisepticum could not be cultured from tracheal swabs collected on several consecutive sampling days after the end of the enrofloxacin treatments, the infection was not eradicated. Viral infections reactivated the mycoplasma infection. Mycoplasmas were isolated from tracheal rings cultured for several days, suggesting that M. gallisepticum persisted in the trachea despite the enrofloxacin treatment. The minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of enrofloxacin for most of the re-isolated mycoplasmas was the same as that of the strain with which the birds were inoculated. Furthermore, no mutation could be detected in the fluoroquinolone target genes. These results suggest that M. gallisepticum can persist in chickens without development of resistance despite several treatments with enrofloxacin.
Anti-Helicobacter pylori therapy significantly reduces Helicobacter pylori -induced gastric mucosal damage in Mongolian gerbils.	To investigate the effectiveness of 4 d' anti-Helicobacter pylori therapy on the H pylori-infected Mongolian gerbils based on physiological and pathological changes.
Icodextrin reduces postoperative adhesion formation in rats without affecting peritoneal metastasis.	Peroperative peritoneal trauma activates a cascade of peritoneal defense mechanisms responsible for postoperative adhesion formation. The same cascade seems to play a role in the process of intra-abdominal tumor recurrence. Icodextrin is a glucose polymer solution that is absorbed slowly from the peritoneal cavity, allowing prolonged "hydroflotation" of the viscera, thereby decreasing adhesion formation. This study evaluated the adhesion-preventing properties of icodextrin and its effect on peritoneal metastasis.
NK gene complex haplotype variability and host resistance alleles to murine cytomegalovirus in wild mouse populations.	The NK gene complex (NKC) on mouse chromosome 6 encodes receptors that are expressed on NK cells, such as Ly49H, and is involved in regulating NK cell control of virus infections, such as murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV). In the present study, we investigated the level of allelic heterogeneity in NKC loci in populations of outbred wild mice. This work revealed extensive levels of heterogeneity within two wild mouse populations. Analysis of MCMV replication in a population of specific pathogen-free outbred wild mice revealed that low viral titres, which are normally associated with the Cmv1(r) allele of the Cmv1 host resistance locus, were not prevalent in the mice tested. Hence, NKC-mediated resistance associated with Cmv1(r)/Ly49H-like effects was rare in this population. Overall, these data indicate that the NKC region is highly polymorphic and thus it is very likely that it confers on mice sufficient variability to cope with infection by a range of pathogens.
Intestinal flora of animal models of human diseases as an environmental factor.	Genetically-engineered animals are known to be useful in clarifying the functions of many genes and as animal models for human diseases. However, it has been widely reported that pathophysiology is not expressed in these animals when they become germfree or SPF animals, i.e., the pathophysiology is not the result of genes alone and a combination of gene function and intestinal flora as an environmental factor are necessary. It is important to determine the roles of each of these two factors by pathophysiological analysis. Gnotobiotic mice were produced by establishment of specified bacterial species in germfree animals to form the intestinal flora of SPF animals and they were placed in barrier facilities. Measures have been taken against infections by bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Enterobacter cloacae. In addition, gnotobiotic mice with a highly normal physiology are required. Analysis of the effects of each bacterial species and combinations of bacteria on in vivo functions, i.e., the cross-talk between the host and intestinal flora, is essential in the creation of better laboratory animals. Monitoring of the intestinal flora, a key factor in the colonies produced, is a topic for future research.
Experimental alveolar echinococcosis in pigs, lesion development and serological follow up.	Liver lesions were found in 6/6 pigs 7 months after oral inoculation with 5000 or 35,000 Echinococcus multilocularis eggs. However, lesion morphology differed considerably among the animals. The largest lesions (3-8mm in diameter) were found in a single pig and smaller lesions (1.5-3mm) in three pigs. These lesions were clearly circumscribed and had pronounced central necroses and dystrophic calcifications. In contrast, most of the smallest (usually <1.5mm in diameter) found in two other pigs, had small compact fibrotic areas and blurred borders with obvious fibrous infiltrations into the interlobular tissues. E. multilocularis specific DNA was detected by PCR in all lesion types, but metacestode viability, as assessed by in vivo intraperitoneal inoculations in jirds, could not be demonstrated. Within 1 month post inoculation, all pigs developed specific IgG antibody responses against a battery of different antigens (metacestode, cyst fluid, and protoscoleces-derived native E. multilocularis and E. granulosus antigens, affinity purified Em2G11 antigen, antigen B, recombinant Em II/3-10 antigen). Two different reaction patterns were recorded. In the two pigs with the small lesions, pronounced reactions against all crude antigens with peaks 3-5 months p.i. and clearly elevated levels until the end of the experiment were noted. In all other pigs, antibody reactions remained low in all cases. In conclusion, we demonstrated two types of E. multilocularis metacestode development in pigs with distinct immunological response patterns.
Tacrolimus (FK506) has protective actions against murine bleomycin-induced acute lung injuries.	The effects of tacrolimus on murine acute lung injury were tested, especially in comparison to dexamethasone. Acute lung injury was induced by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin. Oral tacrolimus significantly improved survival rates of bleomycin-exposed mice, while cyclosporin A or dexamethasone did not. After instillation of bleomycin (day 0), a migration of neutrophils into alveolar spaces peaked on day 3, with concomitant increases of chemokines. On day 6, marked morphological changes in the lungs were observed. All these changes were significantly inhibited by tacrolimus. Furthermore, DNA ladder and immunohistochemical analyses of lungs showed that apoptosis of lung cells appeared on day 6 and was abolished only by the treatment of tacrolimus. These results suggest that both anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic action of tacrolimus contribute to improvement of bleomycin-induced acute lung injury.
Inhibition of protein kinase CK2 prevents the progression of glomerulonephritis.	Glomerulonephritis (GN) is a progressive inflammation that may be caused by a variety of underlying disorders. It is the primary cause of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease, which require dialysis and transplantation worldwide. Immunosuppressive therapy has been used to treat GN clinically, but this treatment has had insufficient therapeutic effects. Here, we show that protein kinase CK2 is a key molecule in the progression of GN. cDNA microarray analysis identified CK2alpha, the catalytic subunit of CK2, as a GN-related, differentially expressed gene. Overexpression of CK2alpha was noted in the proliferative glomerular lesions in rat GN models and in renal biopsy specimens from lupus nephritis or IgA nephropathy patients. Administration of either antisense oligodeoxynucleotide against CK2alpha or low molecular weight CK2-specific inhibitors effectively prevented the progression of renal pathology in the rat GN models. The resolution of GN by CK2 inhibition may result from its suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinase-mediated cell proliferation, and its suppression of inflammatory and fibrotic processes that are enhanced in GN. Our results show that CK2 plays a critical role in the progression of immunogenic renal injury, and therefore, CK2 is a potential target for GN therapy.
Chinese medicine compound Changtong oral liquid on postoperative intestinal adhesions.	The aim of this study was to observe the effect of a Chinese medicine compound Changtong oral liquid (CT) on tissue plasminogen activity (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI), TGF-beta1 and hydroxyproline (OHP).
Comparison of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium colitis in germfree mice and mice pretreated with streptomycin.	Salmonella enterica subspecies 1 serovar Typhimurium is a common cause of bacterial enterocolitis. Mice are generally protected from Salmonella serovar Typhimurium colonization and enterocolitis by their resident intestinal microflora. This phenomenon is called "colonization resistance" (CR). Two murine Salmonella serovar Typhimurium infection models are based on the neutralization of CR: (i) in specific-pathogen-free mice pretreated with streptomycin (StrSPF mice) antibiotics disrupt the intestinal microflora; and (ii) germfree (GF) mice are raised without any intestinal microflora, but their intestines show distinct physiologic and immunologic characteristics. It has been unclear whether the same pathogenetic mechanisms trigger Salmonella serovar Typhimurium colitis in GF and StrSPF mice. In this study, we compared the two colitis models. In both of the models Salmonella serovar Typhimurium efficiently colonized the large intestine and triggered cecum and colon inflammation starting 8 h postinfection. The type III secretion system encoded in Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 was essential in both disease models. Thus, Salmonella serovar Typhimurium colitis is triggered by similar pathogenetic mechanisms in StrSPF and GF mice. This is remarkable considering the distinct physiological properties of the GF mouse gut. One obvious difference was more pronounced damage and reduced regenerative response of the cecal epithelium in GF mice. Overall, StrSPF mice and GF mice provide similar but not identical models for Salmonella serovar Typhimurium colitis.
Toward a detailed characterization of feline immunodeficiency virus-specific T cell immune responses and mediated immune disorders.	Infection of domestic cats with feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is associated with the development of an acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The pathogenesis of FIV is not fully understood but it has been reported that the immune system is progressively impaired during disease progression. As a result, anti-FIV specific immune response will usually not clear the virus and the acute stage is followed by a chronic asymptomatic phase. The overall objective of this study was to characterized FIV-induced immune cellular responses and -mediated immune disorder following the first weeks post-infection. Using both cytokine ELISpot and intracellular staining assays, FIV-specific T cells were monitored at 6, 9 and 12 weeks post-infection. We demonstrated that both IFNgamma(+) and, CD4 and CD8 TNFalpha(+) T cells specifically respond to FIV antigens. These responses were found to reach a peak at 9 weeks post-infection. It was further shown that the TNFalpha(+)CD8(+) responding T cells were contained within a CD8beta(low)CD62L(-) T cell subpopulation, expanded in FIV-infected cats. This T cell subpopulation which present features of activated CD8 T cells was further shown to be susceptible to spontaneous apoptosis following a short-term in vitro culture. Moreover, it was observed that cell death by apoptosis of this T cell subset was increased following FIV antigen-recognition. Therefore, FIV might alter immune homeostasis in inducing chronic activation of TNFalpha(+)CD8(+) T cells which eventually will die following antigen contact while deleting CD4(+) T cells. Interestingly, this study confirmed the strong similarity between FIV and HIV pathogenesis.
IgG from acutely infected cats blocks mucosal feline immunodeficiency virus infection.	We have previously shown an absence of detectable systemic or local infection in cats exposed to an infectious (100 TCID(50)) feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) plasma inoculum via either the rectal or vaginal mucosa. In contrast, this same plasma inoculum was infectious via parenteral inoculation. Moreover an equivalent dose of cell-free tissue culture-origin virus inoculum infected 100% of cats by either the rectal or vaginal exposure route. To evaluate this phenomena, we used a tissue culture system to identify a heat-stable factor in the plasma of cats acutely (3 weeks) infected with FIV that blocked infection of naive peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) by either cell-free or cell-associated FIV in vitro. A single application of as little as a 1:200 dilution of either heparinized or Alsevier's anticoagulated plasma effectively inhibited production of FIV p26 in culture over a 21-day co-culture period. Depletion of antibody using a protein A column abrogated the inhibitory effect of FIV plasma against in vitro FIV infection. Co-inoculation of heat-inactivated plasma with 400 TCID(50) FIV-B-2542 cell-free supernatant virus onto the vaginal mucosa of two cats resulted in complete inhibition of infection in one cat and increased time to infection in the second. Thus, antibody found in the plasma of cats acutely infected with FIV blocks cell-associated and cell-free infection, inhibits virus production in previously infected cells, and reduces mucosal transmission efficiency in vivo. Extrapolation may help explain the relatively inefficient mucosal transmission of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV) and other lentiviruses.
Differences in the immunopathogenesis of infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) following in ovo and post-hatch vaccination of chickens.	Not much is known about IBDV-pathogenesis and immune mechanisms following in ovo vaccination. In this study, we compared the immunopathogenesis of an intermediate IBDV-vaccine in post-hatch- and in ovo-inoculated chickens. In ovo-vaccinated birds recovered significantly faster from lesions of the bursa of Fabricius than post-hatch vaccinated (P<0.05). A significant accumulation of intrabursal CD8(+) T cells was observed in post-hatch but not in in ovo-vaccinated chickens (P<0.05). The innate immunity was comparable between in ovo- and post-hatch-vaccinated groups as indicated by comparable intrabursal macrophage accumulation and intrabursal IBDV-clearance. Overall, our observations indicate that IBDV in ovo vaccination may be advantageous over post-hatch. In ovo-vaccinated birds recover faster from bursa lesions and exhibit similar protection against challenge in comparison to post-hatch vaccinated.
Preclinical testing of the nitroimidazopyran PA-824 for activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a series of in vitro and in vivo models.	This study extends earlier reports regarding the in vitro and in vivo efficacies of the nitroimidazopyran PA-824 against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. PA-824 was tested in vitro against a broad panel of multidrug-resistant clinical isolates and was found to be highly active against all isolates (MIC<1 microg/ml). The activity of PA-824 against M. tuberculosis was also assessed grown under conditions of oxygen depletion. PA-824 showed significant activity at 2, 10, and 50 microg/ml, similar to that of metronidazole, in a dose-dependent manner. In a short-course mouse infection model, the efficacy of PA-824 at 50, 100, and 300 mg/kg of body weight formulated in methylcellulose or cyclodextrin/lecithin after nine oral treatments was compared with those of isoniazid, rifampin, and moxifloxacin. PA-824 at 100 mg/kg in cyclodextrin/lecithin was as active as moxifloxacin at 100 mg/kg and isoniazid at 25 mg/kg and was slightly more active than rifampin at 20 mg/kg. Long-term treatment with PA-824 at 100 mg/kg in cyclodextrin/lecithin reduced the bacterial load below 500 CFU in the lungs and spleen. No significant differences in activity between PA-824 and the other single drug treatments tested (isoniazid at 25 mg/kg, rifampin at 10 mg/kg, gatifloxacin at 100 mg/kg, and moxifloxacin at 100 mg/kg) could be observed. In summary, its good activity in in vivo models, as well as its activity against multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis and against M. tuberculosis isolates in a potentially latent state, makes PA-824 an attractive drug candidate for the therapy of tuberculosis. These data indicate that there is significant potential for effective oral delivery of PA-824 for the treatment of tuberculosis.
Murine coronavirus evolution in vivo: functional compensation of a detrimental amino acid substitution in the receptor binding domain of the spike glycoprotein.	Murine coronavirus A59 strain causes mild to moderate hepatitis in mice. We have previously shown that mutants of A59, unable to induce hepatitis, may be selected by persistent infection of primary glial cells in vitro. These in vitro isolated mutants encoded two amino acids substitutions in the spike (S) gene: Q159L lies in the putative receptor binding domain of S, and H716D, within the cleavage signal of S. Here, we show that hepatotropic revertant variants may be selected from these in vitro isolated mutants (Q159L-H716D) by multiple passages in the mouse liver. One of these mutants, hr2, was chosen for more in-depth study based on a more hepatovirulent phenotype. The S gene of hr2 (Q159L-R654H-H716D-E1035D) differed from the in vitro isolates (Q159L-H716D) in only 2 amino acids (R654H and E1035D). Using targeted RNA recombination, we have constructed isogenic recombinant MHV-A59 viruses differing only in these specific amino acids in S (Q159L-R654H-H716D-E1035D). We demonstrate that specific amino acid substitutions within the spike gene of the hr2 isolate determine the ability of the virus to cause lethal hepatitis and replicate to significantly higher titers in the liver compared to wild-type A59. Our results provide compelling evidence of the ability of coronaviruses to rapidly evolve in vivo to highly virulent phenotypes by functional compensation of a detrimental amino acid substitution in the receptor binding domain of the spike glycoprotein.
Evaluation of the potential immunotoxicity of 3-monochloro-1,2-propanediol in Balb/c mice II. Effect on thymic subset, delayed-type hypersensitivity, mixed-lymphocyte reaction, and peritoneal macrophage activity.	3-Monochloro-1,2-propanediol (MCPD) is a well-known by-product of acid-hydrolyzed soy sauce during its manufacturing process. To evaluate the immunotoxicity of MCPD, we investigated its effect on the thymic subset, delayed-type hypersensitivity, mixed-lymphocyte reaction and peritoneal macrophage activity. MCPD was administered by gavage for 14 days at 0, 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day to female Balb/c mice. The thymic subsets and annexin-V positive cells in thymic cells were quantified by flow cytometry. Mixed-lymphocyte reaction, delayed-type hypersensitivity and peritoneal macrophage activity were assessed. The mixed-lymphocyte reaction and delayed-type hypersensitivity were not significantly changed. However, there were significant increases in the apoptosis of mice treated with high dose of MCPD compared to the vehicle control. A significant decrease in the CD4+CD8+ thymic subset of mice treated with high dose of MCPD was observed. The activity of peritoneal macrophage was significantly reduced in high dose group. These results indicate that MCPD could modulate the immune function in Balb/c mice.
Quantification of prion gene expression in brain and peripheral organs of golden hamster by real-time RT-PCR.	Determination of tissue-specific expression of cellular prion protein (PrPc) is essential for understanding its poorly explained role in organisms. Herein we report on quantification of PrP mRNA in golden hamsters, a popular experimental model for studying mechanisms of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE), by real-time RT-PCR. Total RNA was isolated from four different regions of the brain and six peripheral organs of eight golden hamsters. PrP mRNA copy numbers were determined using absolute standard curve method with real-time quantitative PCR instrument. It was found that high mRNA levels were present in all four regions of the brain examined, including obex, neocortex, cerebellum, and thalamus. In peripheral organs examined, inguinal lymph node showed high level of the expression similar to that in overall brain; spleen, heart, liver, and lung showed moderate levels of the expression; and kidney showed the lowest expression. Our result is consistent with the potential involvement of different organs in prion diseases and offers essential data for further study of TSE mechanism in this animal model.
Light and electron microscopic study of the thoracic respiratory air sacs of the fowl.	There are conflicting reports in the existing literature on the nature of the epithelial lining and the content of the supporting connective tissue of the respiratory air sacs of birds. The present study describes the light and electron microscopic structure of the thoracic air sacs of the fowl. A simple squamous epithelium lined the greater part of the thoracic air sacs. The squamous cells characteristically contained vesicles filled with lamellar or myelinoid material. Localized areas of cuboidal to columnar ciliated epithelium were randomly distributed and often associated with underlying blood vessels. Isolated ciliated cells first appeared on squamous or low cuboidal cells and increased in frequency as the cells became taller. Occasional basal and goblet cells were seen between the ciliated columnar cells. A fibrous connective tissue stroma supported the epithelium. Fine elastic fibres were particularly prevalent immediately below the epithelium. Isolated smooth muscle myocytes were present in the connective tissue stroma. A sheet of smooth muscle extended some distance into the membrane from the attachment of the latter to the body wall. Numerous small blood vessels, lymphatics and occasional nerve bundles were observed in the stroma.
Electrical stimulation attenuates denervation and age-related atrophy in extensor digitorum longus muscles of old rats.	Skeletal muscles of old rats and elderly humans lose muscle mass and maximum force. Denervation is a major cause of age-related muscle atrophy and weakness, because denervated fibers do not contract, and undergo atrophy. At any age, surgical denervation causes even more dramatic muscle atrophy and loss in force than aging does. Electrical stimulation that generates tetanic contractions of denervated muscles reduces the denervation-induced declines. We investigated whether a stimulation protocol that maintains mass and force of denervated extensor digitorum longus muscles of adult rats would also maintain these properties in denervated muscles of old rats during a 2-month period of age-induced declines in these properties. Contractile activity generated by the electrical stimulation eliminated age-related losses in muscle mass and reduced the deficit in force by 50%. These data provide support for the hypothesis that during aging, lack of contractile activity in fibers contributes to muscle atrophy and weakness.
In vitro comparison of RNA preparation methods for detection of feline calicivirus in urine of cats by use of a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assay.	To compare 5 methods of preparation of RNA from feline urine samples for use in a feline calicivirus (FCV), p30 gene-based, real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay.
A VicRK signal transduction system in Streptococcus mutans affects gtfBCD, gbpB, and ftf expression, biofilm formation, and genetic competence development.	Bacteria exposed to transient host environments can elicit adaptive responses by triggering the differential expression of genes via two-component signal transduction systems. This study describes the vicRK signal transduction system in Streptococcus mutans. A vicK (putative histidine kinase) deletion mutant (SmuvicK) was isolated. However, a vicR (putative response regulator) null mutation was apparently lethal, since the only transformants isolated after attempted mutagenesis overexpressed all three genes in the vicRKX operon (Smuvic+). Compared with the wild-type UA159 strain, both mutants formed aberrant biofilms. Moreover, the vicK mutant biofilm formed in sucrose-supplemented medium was easily detachable relative to that of the parent. The rate of total dextran formation by this mutant was remarkably reduced compared to the wild type, whereas it was increased in Smuvic+. Based on real-time PCR, Smuvic+ showed increased gtfBCD, gbpB, and ftf expression, while a recombinant VicR fusion protein was shown to bind the promoter regions of the gtfB, gtfC, and ftf genes. Also, transformation efficiency in the presence or absence of the S. mutans competence-stimulating peptide was altered for the vic mutants. In vivo studies conducted using SmuvicK in a specific-pathogen-free rat model resulted in significantly increased smooth-surface dental plaque (Pearson-Filon statistic [PF], <0.001). While the absence of vicK did not alter the incidence of caries, a significant reduction in SmuvicK CFU counts was observed in plaque samples relative to that of the parent (PF, <0.001). Taken together, these findings support involvement of the vicRK signal transduction system in regulating several important physiological processes in S. mutans.
Native herpes simplex virus glycoprotein D vaccine: immunogenicity and protection in animal models.	Mice, guinea pigs, and rhesus monkeys were immunized with immunoaffinity-purified native glycoprotein D (gD) derived from herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV1). The native glycoprotein has evoked significant in vivo responses even at low doses. Thus, mice immunized with doses as low as 1 microgram were significantly protected from the morbidity and mortality of lethal HSV2 challenge and from establishment of latent HSV2 infection. Protection was dose-related and correlated with prechallenge serum neutralizing antibody titres to HSV. Similarly, immunized guinea-pigs demonstrated significant reductions in the frequency, severity and duration of genital lesions induced by HSV2 vaginal challenge. In long term immunogenicity studies, immunized rhesus monkeys exhibited significant serum neutralizing antibody responses to both HSV1 and HSV2. In vitro stimulation of monkey peripheral blood leucocytes with purified gD resulted in a significant cellular proliferative response. The results obtained in these animal models with a gD subunit vaccine provide an appropriate foundation for the initiation of human studies.
Modulation of lethal and persistent rat parvovirus infection by antibody.	Two day-old athymic (rnu/rnu) and euthymic (rnu/+) rat pups nursing immune or non-immune dams were inoculated oronasally with the Yale strain of rat virus (RV-Y). All athymic and euthymic pups (57/57) from immune dams remained clinically normal, whereas 51 of 66 athymic and euthymic pups from non-immune dams died within 30 days. Infectious RV was detected by explant culture in 12 of 15 surviving pups of both genotypes from non-immune dams 30 days after inoculation, but in none of the 57 surviving pups from immune dams. RV-Y DNA was detected by Southern blotting in kidneys of surviving athymic pups from non-immune dams but was not detected in pups from immune dams. Euthymic pups from immune dams appeared not to produce endogenous antibody to RV after virus challenge, whereas euthymic pups from non-immune dams produced high-titered RV immune serum. Pups of both genotypes given immune serum prior to or with RV were fully protected from disease and persistent infection, whereas pups given immune serum 24 hours after RV were partially protected. These studies show that RV antibody offers significant protection against lethal and persistent RV infection.
Construction of a pigeonpox virus recombinant: expression of the Newcastle disease virus (NDV) fusion glycoprotein and protection of chickens against NDV challenge.	A pigeonpox transfer plasmid was constructed by cloning a 2.5 kb DNA fragment containing the viral thymidine kinase (TK) gene in the psp65 plasmid. The vaccinia virus P11K promoter followed by the NDV fusion (F) gene was inserted in the TK gene. The F gene was transferred to the viral genome by homologous recombination in pigeonpox virus infected CEF cells, transfected with the recombinant plasmid. Recombinant viruses were selected with BUdR and screened for their ability to induce fusion between adjacent cells. Because of the unexpected growth advantage of the TK+ WT over the TK- recombinants, viral purification was needed to obtain stable recombinants expressing a glycosylated and cleaved F protein. Vaccination of chickens by the follicular method induced high anti-F antibody titers and good protection against challenge with the virulent Italian NDV strain. Half of the oculonasal vaccinated chickens showed anti F antibodies and also half of them were protected. Although protection seems to be correlated with antibody titers, no neutralizing antibodies were found.
Potentiation of murine cytomegalovirus pneumonitis by antibiotics in clinical use.	Nineteen antibiotics were screened for their effects on the proliferation of murine spleen cells in vitro. Ketoconazole suppressed lymphoproliferation at clinically-attainable concentrations, whilst tetracycline, cephalothin, rifampicin and ciprofloxacin were also inhibitory at relatively low concentrations. These antibiotics were selected for further study. High concentrations of cephalothin inhibited macrophage uptake of colloidal gold, while spleen cells from mice treated with ketoconazole responded poorly to mitogenic stimulation in vitro. Humoral responses to ovalbumin, polyvinylpyrrolidone and murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) were not suppressed by oral administration of ketoconazole, tetracycline, cephalothin, rifampicin or ciprofloxacin to mice. However, MCMV-infected mice receiving these antibiotics had increased virus loads and a greater persistence of virus and interstitial pneumonitis in their lungs. This was observed with clinically-attainable serum concentrations of cephalothin, tetracycline and ciprofloxacin. The findings warrant further investigation as the antibiotics are used to control secondary infections in immunosuppressed patients, many of whom experience cytomegalovirus disease.
Eimeria tenella: B-cell epitope mapping following primary and secondary infections.	Immunisation against coccidiosis has become more reliable and effective with improved administration techniques for new vaccines. On the other hand, an ideal coccidial vaccine should contain both B- and T-cell immunogenic epitopes. Fine specificity of B-cell epitopes recognised by antibodies prepared following primary and secondary infections with Eimeria tenella were studied using "PepScan" techniques. Mapping of B-cell epitopes within an antigenic sequence from E. tenella showed that four distinct types of epitopes were recognised by the host immune system during the primary and secondary infections with the parasite. These observations demonstrated that new epitopes are also involved in induction of antibody responses following the secondary infection.
Advantage of ischemic preconditioning for hepatic resection in pigs.	Ischemic preconditioning (IP) and intermittent inflow occlusion (IO) have provided beneficial outcomes in hepatic resection. However, comparison of these two procedures against warm hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury has not been studied enough.
Immunogenicity of infectious bursal disease viruses in chickens.	Cross-protective properties of infectious bursal disease viruses (IBDVs) were studied. Viruses represented different subtypes of serotype 1, including recently isolated viruses (variants), and a serotype 2 virus. Chickens were vaccinated at 3 weeks of age with inactivated vaccines containing 10(5), 10(6), 10(7), or 10(8) mean tissue-culture infectious dose of a given virus and challenged 2 weeks later using either 10(2) or 10(3.5) mean embryo infectious dose (EID50) of either a standard virus or a variant serotype 1 virus. Protection was evaluated at 5 and 10 days post-challenge, based on gross and microscopic lesions, body weight, and bursa/body-weight ratios. The serotype 2 virus did not confer protection on birds challenged with the serotype 1 viruses. Vaccines made of variant viruses at the low doses protected chickens challenged with the high or low doses of either the standard or the variant viruses. Vaccines made of the standard or variant strains at low doses protected against high or low challenge doses of the standard strain. Vaccines made of the high dose of any of the standard strains protected chickens against the variant virus when the low challenge dose (10(2) EID50) was used, but not when the high challenge dose (10(3.5) EID50) was used. The lowest dose of the standard viruses vaccines required to confer protection against the variant virus varied depending on the strain. Results indicated that protection depended on the strain and dose of both the vaccine and challenge viruses and that the variant strains and standard strains share a common protective antigen(s).
IgM responses in chicken serum to live and inactivated infectious bronchitis virus vaccines.	Intramuscular (i.m.) administration of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) oil-emulsion vaccine (OEV) to IBV-primed or unprimed chickens resulted in the production of zero or minimal concentrations of IBV-specific IgM in the serum, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of gel chromatography fractions. Live-attenuated infectious bronchitis (IB) vaccine given i.m. or by eyedrop stimulated the production of IBV-specific IgM in similar amounts following inoculation by both routes. These levels were comparable to those found in earlier studies following intranasal inoculation with a virulent strain of IBV and confirm that the detection of IBV-specific IgM is a valuable aid to the diagnosis of recent infection. As expected, administration of live-attenuated IB vaccines i.m. or by eyedrop protected the respiratory tract against challenge with virulent virus 24 days later; however, OEV given i.m. did not.
Determination of infectious bursal disease virus titration and neutralization endpoints using fluorogenic staining.	An automated method for determining infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) titration and neutralization endpoints is described. The method employs the fluorogenic ester carboxyfluorescein-diacetate (CFDA) to stain cell monolayers in 96-well plates and a fluorescence-concentration analyzer. Titration results are compared with immunofluorescence and plaque assay titers. Virus-neutralization endpoint determination is objective, and the endpoints of replicate tests were equivalent or within one dilution of variability. Tests can be automatically screened as any percentage of a positive control or any standard deviation from a negative control.
Detection of contact dermatitis in rat skin by intravital microscopy.	The sensitivity of fluorescence intravital microscopy for the detection of immunologically elicited inflammatory reactions in the skin was compared to assessment by tissue swelling measurement. Rats were immunized to the contact-sensitizing agent toluene diisocyanate (TDI) by its application to the skin and challenged by the same procedure at a different site one week thereafter. At 2, 6, or 12 hrs after challenge individual rats received a bolus of fluorescently labeled albumin intravenously. Vascular integrity was determined by estimating the surface of areas with increased vascular permeability as observed by fluorescence intravital microscopy; contact dermatitis (CD) was assessed just prior to infusion of labeled albumin determination of tissue swelling by a semi-automatic micrometer. At 12 hrs after challenge, CD was detectable by tissue swelling. Intravital fluorescence microscopy revealed massive extravasation of the fluorescent dye at the site of challenge. At 6 hrs after challenge, CD was not yet discernible by toe thickness measurements. However, by fluorescence intravital microscopy significant leakage of labeled albumin was observed. Thus, at 6 hrs after challenge fluorescence intravital microscopy was more sensitive than determination of tissue thickness increment for detection of a contact hypersensitivity reaction. At 2 hrs after challenge, CD was neither demonstrable by tissue swelling measurements, nor by fluorescence intravital microscopy. Therefore, an early component of a delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction to a contact allergen as shown to occur in mice, remains to be demonstrated in the rat. On the other hand, fluorescence intravital microscopy revealed non-immunological skin irritation by a 5% TDI solution within 2 hrs after its application to the skin of non-immunized rats.
Immunomodulating effects of ozone on macrophage functions important for tumor surveillance and host defense.	Ozone (O3) is a toxic gaseous pollutant that has been implicated in laboratory studies as a potential lung carcinogen or cocarcinogen in mice. To begin to assess the role of altered macrophage (M phi) responses as a possible mechanism by which O3 may influence carcinogenesis, we examined the effects of repeated in vivo O3 exposure on pulmonary M phi functional and biochemical activities deemed important in tumor surveillance, and host defense in general. Rabbits were exposed by inhalation to 1 ppm O3 for 3 d (2 h/d) and the lungs were lavaged immediately (t0) and 24 h (t24) after exposure. Results demonstrate that O3 reduced M phi viability and increased the number of neutrophils collected immediately after exposure. Effects of O3 on M phi movement were as follows: random migration was depressed immediately after the final exposure and chemotactic migration increased after 24 h. M phi-mediated cytotoxicity toward xenogeneic tumor cells in vitro was significantly depressed, compared to control, immediately and 24 h after O3 exposure. Release of cytotoxic factors deemed important for mediating tumor cell destruction was also assessed. Spontaneous and stimulated production of tumor necrosis factor, as measured by cytotoxicity toward LM cells (a clone of L-929 mouse fibroblasts), was unaffected by exposure to O3. Zymosan-stimulated production of superoxide anion radical (.O2-) was depressed at t0 and increased at t24; however, no significant effects on H2O2 production by resting or zymosan-stimulated M phi were observed at either time interval. Inhaled toxicants such as O3, which can compromise M phi functions important in tumor surveillance, could potentially alter host susceptibility to pulmonary cancer. Results of this study have important implications for human health, and demonstrate the need for further studies examining the carcinogenic/cocarcinogenic potential of O3.
WR2721 protection of bone marrow in 131I-labeled antibody therapy.	The use of phosphorothioate radioprotectors such as WR2721 in radioimmunotherapy is attractive because radiation delivered to tumors is usually separated in time from that delivered to the marrow and most normal organs, making protection of tumors of little consequence. However, to be effective radioprotectors must provide continuous protection against radiation of varying dose rates. To evaluate the potential of radioprotectors in radioimmunotherapy we treated normal mice with graded amounts of WR2721 in combination with an LD90/30 (26 MBq) of 131I-labeled antibody. A regimen of 15 doses of WR2721, 200 mg/kg prior to antibody infusion followed by 100 mg/kg ip every 4 h for a total of 72 h, was the maximum tolerated dosage schedule. With this schedule, treatment with radioprotectors failed to prolong survival or delay myelosuppression from the 131I-labeled antibody. In contrast, this regimen of radioprotector provided partial protection from a single treatment of 10 Gy total-body radiation given at 0.2 Gy/min. Protection 30 min after the final dose of WR2721 was greater than 3 h after the 14th dose (60 min prior to the final dose). These results suggest that the potential role of phosphorothioate radioprotectors in a radioimmunotherapy is limited because of the difficulty in achieving continuous protection with nontoxic amounts of drug and possibly because of a limited effect on low-dose-rate radiation.
Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis colonization of the chicken caecum requires the HilA regulatory protein.	Invasion of Salmonella into intestinal epithelial cells is believed to be essential for the pathogenesis of Salmonella infections. Invasion is mediated by genes located on the Salmonella pathogenicity Island I (SPI-1), which are needed for assembling a type three secretion system, that mediates injection of bacterial proteins into the cytosol of epithelial cells, resulting in cytoskeletal rearrangements and as a consequence invasion. HilA is the key regulator of the Salmonella Pathogenicity Island I. To assess the role of hilA in colonization of gut and internal organs in poultry, animals were infected with 10(8) CFU of a delta hilA mutant of S. Enteritidis and its parent strain at day of hatch. Very low numbers of delta hilA mutant strain were able to colonize the internal organs shortly after infection, but they were not eliminated from internal organs at 4 weeks post-infection. At that time, the colonization level of the wild type bacteria in internal organs was decreased to the same low level compared with delta hilA mutant strain bacteria. Shedding of the delta hilA mutant strain and colonization of the caeca was seriously decreased relative to the parent strain starting from Day 5 post-infection. At 4 weeks post-infection, the delta hilA mutant strain was more or less eliminated from the chicken gut, while the parent strain was still shed to a high level and colonized the caeca to a high extent (more than 10(7) CFU/g). It is concluded that hilA is involved in long-term shedding and colonization of S. Enteritidis in the chicken caeca.
Relative quantification and detection of different types of infectious bursal disease virus in bursa of Fabricius and cloacal swabs using real time RT-PCR SYBR green technology.	In present study, different types of infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV), virulent strain DK01, classic strain F52/70 and vaccine strain D78 were quantified and detected in infected bursa of Fabricius (BF) and cloacal swabs using quantitative real time RT-PCR with SYBR green dye. For selection of a suitable internal control gene, real time PCR parameters were evaluated for three candidate genes, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), 28S rRNA and beta-actin to IBDVs. Based on this beta-actin was selected as an internal control for quantification of IBDVs in BF. All BF samples with D78, DK01 or F52/70 inoculation were detected as virus positive at day 1 post inoculation (p.i.). The D78 viral load peaked at day 4 and day 8 p.i., while the DK01 and F52/70 viral load showed relatively high levels at day 2 p.i. In cloacal swabs, viruses detectable were at day 2 p.i. for DK01 and F52/70, day 8 p.i. for D78. Importantly, the primers set were specific as the D78 primer set gave no amplification of F52/70 and DK01 and the DK01 primer set gave no amplification of D78, thus DK01 and D78 could be quantified simultaneously in dually infected chickens by use of these two set of primers. The method described here is robust and may sever as a useful tool with high capacity for diagnostics as well as in viral pathogenesis studies.
The immunogenicity and efficacy against H5N1 challenge of reverse genetics-derived H5N3 influenza vaccine in ducks and chickens.	H5N1 avian influenza viruses are continuing to spread in waterfowl in Eurasia and to threaten the health of avian and mammalian species. The possibility that highly pathogenic (HP) H5N1 avian influenza is now endemic in both domestic and migratory birds in Eurasia makes it unlikely that culling alone will control H5N1 influenza. Because ducks are not uniformly killed by HP H5N1 viruses, they are considered a major contributor to virus spread. Here, we describe a reverse genetics-derived high-growth H5N3 strain containing the modified H5 of A/chicken/Vietnam/C58/04, the N3 of A/duck/Germany/1215/73, and the internal genes of A/PR/8/34. One or two doses of inactivated oil emulsion vaccine containing 0.015 to 1.2 microg of HA protein provide highly efficacious protection against lethal H5N1 challenge in ducks; only the two dose regimen has so far been tested in chickens with high protective efficacy.
Oxidative stress in leukocytes from young prematurely aging mice is reversed by supplementation with biscuits rich in antioxidants.	Aging is associated with a progressive dysregulation of immune responses as a result of increased oxidative stress. Therefore, we have assessed the oxidative stress status of peritoneal leukocytes from young prematurely aging mice (PAM) as compared with non-prematurely aging mice (NPAM), as well as the effects on this oxidative stress of a dietary supplementation with biscuits rich in antioxidants (vitamin C, vitamin E, beta-carotenes, zinc and selenium). We found that, in the peritoneal leukocytes, the levels of several parameters of oxidation such as extracellular superoxide anion (O(2)(-)), Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), nitric oxide, oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde, MDA) were higher in PAM as compared with NPAM, whereas the antioxidant defences such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities, as well as reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, were decreased. Consequently, young PAM showed an oxidative stress in their leukocytes, which is characteristic of mice of an older chronological age. Antioxidant diet supplementation was able to restore redox homeostasis, increasing the antioxidant and decreasing the oxidant levels. Accordingly, supplementation with adequate levels of antioxidants, from an early age, could be useful to preserve health, especially in prematurely aging populations.
Cia27 is a novel non-MHC arthritis severity locus on rat chromosome 10 syntenic to the rheumatoid arthritis 17q22-q25 locus.	Cia27 on rat chromosome 10 is a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) severity quantitative trait locus originally identified in a study of (DA x ACI) F2. As an initial step towards the positional cloning of the Cia27 gene, a 17 cM (21 Mb) interval from the DA strain (arthritis-susceptible) containing the two-logarithm of odds support interval comprising Cia27 was introgressed into the ACI (arthritis-resistant) background through genotype-guided congenic breeding. ACI.DA(Cia27) congenics developed a significantly more severe form of arthritis (CIA), with a 5.9-fold increase in median arthritis severity index, a parameter known to correlate with synovial inflammation, and cartilage and bone erosions, compared with ACI (P< or =0.001). The arthritis severity enhancing effect could be detected from day 21 onwards. Rats heterozygous at the congenic interval developed a disease similar to ACI rats, suggesting that DA alleles operate in a recessive manner. Levels of autoantibodies anti-rat type II collagen did not correlate with arthritis severity. Synovial tissue mRNA levels of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) were significantly increased in ACI.DA(Cia27) congenics compared with ACI. These results demonstrate that Cia27 harbors a novel arthritis severity regulatory gene. The identification of this gene should facilitate the identification of the rheumatoid arthritis gene mapped to the human syntenic region on chromosome 17q22-q25.
Acquired immune dysfunction in cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus infection: comparison of short-term and long-term infections.	Specific pathogen-free domestic cats with experimentally induced feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infections of short duration (less than or equal to 10 months) exhibited depressed total leukocyte and neutrophil numbers and a marginally decreased lymphocyte proliferative response to pokeweed mitogen (PWM), while cats with infections of more lengthy duration (greater than or equal to 25 months) exhibited normal leukocyte and neutrophil numbers but a dramatic loss of responsiveness to both PWM and concanavalin A (Con A). Cats with short-term infections exhibited a decrease in the percentage of CD4+ lymphocytes in peripheral blood and a corresponding depression of the CD4+:CD8+ ratio. Cats with long-term infections exhibited a similar but more profound perturbation of the CD4+ lymphocyte subset that also included a decrease in the absolute number of CD4+ cells. The decreased responsiveness to Con A and PWM in cats infected long term paralleled the decline in CD4+ cell counts, and the duration of infection was directly correlated with the decrease in the percentage of CD4+ cells. These data provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that FIV is the cause of an immune dysfunction in cats, with distinct similarities to that produced by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in people.
The porcine acute phase protein response to acute clinical and subclinical experimental infection with Streptococcus suis.	The pig acute phase protein (APP) response to experimental Streptococcus suis (S. suis) infection was mapped by the measurement of the positive APPs C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA), haptoglobin (Hp) and major acute phase protein (pig-MAP) and the negative APPs albumin and apolipoprotein (Apo) A-I. The aim was to elucidate the differences in the acute phase behaviour of the individual APPs during a typical bacterial septicaemic infection. Pigs were inoculated subcutaneously with live S. suis serotype 2 and blood was sampled before and on various days post inoculation (p.i.), until the pigs were killed and autopsied on day 14 p.i. Clinical signs (fever and lameness) were observed in four of the five inoculated pigs from day 2 p.i., and these pigs also had arthritic lesions at autopsy. CRP and SAA showed fast increases in serum concentrations, CRP being elevated from days 1 to 12 p.i. and peaking at 10 times the day 0-levels on day 1 p.i. SAA rose quickly to peak levels of 30-40 times the day 0-level on days 1-2 and returned to pre-inoculation level on day 5 p.i. Hp and pig-MAP showed slightly slower responses, both peaking around 5 days p.i. Hp was increased throughout the experiment with maximum levels around 10 times the day 0-levels, and pig-MAP was elevated on days 1-12 p.i. with peak levels of around seven times the day 0-levels. Apo A-I was decreased from days 1 to 8 and showed minimum levels of about 40% of day 0-levels around 1-2 days p.i. No clear pattern of changes in albumin levels could be identified. One pig, showing clinical signs on day 2 only, also showed an APP response, although of a relatively short duration, whereas three pigs presenting clinical signs for several days had a more protracted acute phase response. Remarkably, the one pig showing no clinical signs and no arthritic lesions showed an APP response comparable to that of the other, clinically affected pigs. Thus, both acute clinical and subclinical S. suis infection could be revealed by the measurement of one or more of the APPs CRP, SAA, Hp, pig-MAP and Apo A-I. The combined measurement of two or three APPs, including proteins with slow and fast kinetics, should be used to achieve the highest sensitivity for the detection of ongoing S. suis infection during a prolonged time period. A diagnostic tool based on such APP-measurements could considerably improve strategic control procedures for this important infection.
Pulmonary tumor types induced in Wistar rats of the so-called "19-dust study".	The incidences of primary lung tumor types histologically diagnosed in 28 groups of Wistar rats of the so-called "19-dust study" are described, the total study having been already presented by Pott and Roller (Carcinogenicity study with nineteen granular dusts in rats. Eur J Oncol, 2005; 10: 249-81). Each exposed group was repeatedly instilled intratracheally with a suspension of one type and dose of 13 non-mining dusts differing in at least one of the following properties: chemical composition, density, specific surface area, and mean particle size. Eleven of the 13 dusts were classified as respirable granular bio-durable particles without known significant specific toxicity (abbreviation of the nine-word definition: GBP). In 579 (58%) lungs of 1002 rats which survived more than 26 weeks after the first instillation of GBP, at least one primary lung tumor type was observed, and in 306 (31%) at least two types. Three benign tumor types were diagnosed in the 579 tumor-bearing rats: bronchiolo-alveolar adenoma in 46%, cystic keratinizing epithelioma in 53%, and non-keratinizing epithelioma in 2.6% of the rats. Two of three malignant tumor types (bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) occurred in 46% and 31% of the tumor-bearing rats, respectively, and adenosquamous carcinoma was diagnosed in 0.9%. Numerous lungs with a malignant tumor also showed one or more benign tumor types. In addition, single or multiple metastases from primary tumors of other sites (mainly carcinoma of the uterus) were diagnosed in 14% of the 1002 lungs. The proportionate incidences of the four predominantly diagnosed tumor types were compared with three summarized experimental groups which were exposed either to carbon black (two size classes), to titanium dioxide (two size classes), or to the total of the other nine GBP. A significant difference was not detected. The combination of dust volume with particle size correlated best with the carcinogenic effect, in contrast to dust mass and surface area.
Indole-3-carbinol alters placental cytochrome P450 1A1 and P-glycoprotein levels in rats: a potential role in intensifying fetal intrauterine growth-retardation produced by tobacco smoke.	To investigate the deleterious effects and possible mechanism of prenatal indole-3-carbinol (I3C) treatment on normal and tobacco-induced intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) in rats, prenatal development toxicity in rats was studied. Expression of rat placental cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) and P-glycoprotein (Pgp), including mdr1a and mdr1b, were detected using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. Results showed that prenatal oral I3C had no significant effects on corpora lutea counts, implantation or the number of live, dead and resorbed fetuses in normal rats. Fetal malformations, sex ratio, neonatal body weights and physical developmental indices were also unchanged after prenatal I3C treatment. However, the offspring in the tobacco + I3C (4 mg kg(-1)) group showed lower average body weights (3.98+/-0.29 g) than tobacco control (4.48+/-0.11 g), and body and tail lengths lagged significantly behind those of the tobacco-smoke exposure only group. Expression of placental CYP1A1 mRNA by RT-PCR was not detected in the normal group, but was detected in the I3C, tobacco and tobacco + I3C groups. The level of CYP1A1 mRNA expression in the tobacco + I3C group was higher than in tobacco control. The level of mdr1a mRNA increased significantly in the I3C group when compared to normal control, and no obvious difference was detected between tobacco and tobacco + I3C groups. Expression of mdr1b mRNA was increased in the I3C and tobacco + I3C groups compared to their respective controls. Immunohistochemistry results showed that placental Pgp expression was enhanced in the I3C, tobacco and tobacco + I3C groups when compared to the normal control. The results suggest that prenatal oral I3C had no developmental toxicity but intensified fetal IUGR produced by prenatal tobacco-smoke exposure in rats. Up-regulations of placental CYP1A1 and Pgp by I3C might underlie the toxic mechanism.
Characterisation of prototype Nurmi cultures using culture-based microbiological techniques and PCR-DGGE.	Undefined Nurmi-type cultures (NTCs) have been used successfully to prevent salmonella colonisation in poultry for decades. Such cultures are derived from the caecal contents of specific-pathogen-free birds and are administered via drinking water or spray application onto eggs in the hatchery. These cultures consist of many non-culturable and obligately anaerobic bacteria. Due to their undefined nature it is difficult to obtain approval from regulatory agencies to use these preparations as direct fed microbials for poultry. In this study, 10 batches of prototype NTCs were produced using an identical protocol over a period of 2 years. Traditional microbiological techniques and a molecular culture-independent methodology, polymerase chain reaction combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE), were applied to characterise these cultures and also to examine if the constituents of the NTCs were identical. Culture-dependent analysis of these cultures included plating on a variety of selective and semi-selective agars, examination of colony morphology, Gram-staining and a series of biochemical tests (API, BioMerieux, France). Two sets of PCR-DGGE studies were performed. These involved the amplification of universal and subsequently lactic acid bacteria (LAB)-specific hypervariable regions of a 16S rRNA gene by PCR. Resultant amplicons were subjected to DGGE. Sequence analysis was performed on subsequent bands present in resultant DGGE profiles using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST). Microbiological culturing techniques tended to isolate common probiotic bacterial species from the genera Lactobacillus, Lactococcus, Bifidobacterium, Enterococcus, Clostridium, Escherichia, Pediococcus and Enterobacterium as well as members of the genera, Actinomyces, Bacteroides, Propionibacterium, Capnocytophaga, Proteus, and Klebsiella. Bacteroides, Enterococcus, Escherichia, Brevibacterium, Klebsiella, Lactobacillus, Clostridium, Bacillus, Eubacterium, Serratia, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Pectobacterium and Pantoea spp. in addition to unculturable bacteria were identified as constituents of the NTCs using universal PCR-DGGE analysis. A number of the sequences detected by LAB-specific PCR-DGGE were homologous to those of a number of Lactobacillus spp., including L. fermentum, L. pontis, L. crispatus, L. salivarius, L. casei, L. suntoryeus, L. vaginalis, L. gasseri, L. aviaries, L. johnsonii, L. acidophilus, and L. mucosae in addition to a range of unculturable lactobacilli. While NTCs are successful due to their complexity, the presence of members of Lactobacillus spp. amongst other probiotic genera, in these samples possibly lends to the success of the NTC cultures as probiotics or competitive exclusion products in poultry over the decades. PCR-DGGE proved to be an effective tool in detecting non-culturable organisms present in these complex undefined cultures. In conclusion, while the culture-dependent identification methods or PCR-DGGE alone cannot comprehensively elucidate the bacterial species present in such complex cultures, their complementarity provides useful information on the identity of the constituents of NTCs and will aid in future development of defined probiotics. Moreover, for the purpose of analysing prototype NTCs during their development, PCR-DGGE overcomes the limitations associated with conventional culturing methods including their low sensitivities, inability to detect unculturable bacteria and unknown species, very slow turnabout time and poor reproducibility. This study demonstrated that PCR-DGGE is indeed more valuable in detecting predominant microbial populations between various NTCs than as an identification methodology, being more applicable as a quality control method used to analyse for batch-to-batch variation during NTC production.
Susceptibility of laboratory and wild rodents to Rattus or Apodemus-type hantaviruses.	Adult Wistar rats (Rattus norvegicus), Apodemus agrarius, Meriones unguiculatus, Clethrionomys rufocanus, and Apodemus argenteus were inoculated with Rattus-type (SR-11, KI-262, and TB-314) or Apodemus-type (Hantaan 76-118) hantaviruses. Production of serum antibody to the inoculated virus (IAHA titres of 1:32 to 1:4 096) was obsersved in all rodent species 10 weeks after virus inoculation. Rattus-type virus was detected in some organs of all the rodent species employed except of Apodemus agrarius. Apodemus-type virus was found only in some organs of Apodemus agrarius. Newborn Wistar rats induced antibody in high titres to both Rattus- and Apodemus-type hantaviruses. Rattus-type virus was detected in all the organs examined for up to 6 weeks after inoculation, whereas Apodemus-type virus disappeared from all organs except of brain and lung tissues. The virulence of the three Rattus-type viruses to newborn rats was different. These findings indicate that the susceptibility of rodents may vary depending on the combination of rodent species and virus strains; they also suggest that the various species of rodents may be the reservoir animals of hantavirus infection in nature.
Antibody-mediated disease remission in the mouse model of lyme borreliosis.	In the mouse model of Lyme borreliosis, the host immune response during infection with Borrelia burgdorferi results in the remission of carditis and arthritis, as well as global reduction of spirochete numbers in tissues, without elimination of infection. These events were recapitulated by passive transfer of immune serum from infected immunocompetent mice or T-cell-deficient mice to severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice. Previous studies have shown that immune serum is reactive against arthritis-related protein (Arp) and that Arp antiserum induces arthritis remission. However, although immune serum from T-cell-deficient mice induced disease remission, it was not reactive against Arp, suggesting that antibody to another antigen may be responsible. T-cell-deficient mouse immune serum was reactive to decorin binding protein A (DbpA). Therefore, DbpA antiserum was tested to determine its ability to induce disease remission in SCID mice. Antisera to Arp or DbpA induced both carditis and arthritis remission but did not significantly reduce spirochete numbers in tissues, based upon quantitative flaB DNA analysis, nor did treatment affect RNA levels of several genes, including arp and dbpA. Immunohistochemical labeling of spirochetes in hearts and joints during disease remission induced by adoptive transfer of lymphocytes, passive transfer of immune serum, or passive transfer of DbpA antiserum revealed that such treatment resulted in elimination of spirochetes from heart base and synovium but not vascular walls, tendons, or ligaments. These results suggest that Arp and DbpA antibodies may be active as disease-resolving components in immune serum but antibody against other antigens may be involved in reductions of spirochetes in tissues.
Caspase-1-mediated activation of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-18 contributes to innate immune defenses against Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection.	Caspase-1 (Casp-1) mediates the processing of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-18 to their mature forms. Casp-1-deficient mice succumb more rapidly to Salmonella challenge than do wild-type animals. Both Casp-1 substrates, IL-18 and IL-1beta, are relevant for control of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. We used IL-18-/- and IL-1beta-/- mice in addition to administration of recombinant IL-18 to Casp-1-/- mice to demonstrate that IL-18 is important for resistance to the systemic infection but not for resistance to the intestinal phase of the infection. This suggests that IL-1beta is critical for the intestinal phase of the disease. Thus, we show that Casp-1 is essential for host innate immune defense against S. enterica serovar Typhimurium and that Casp-1 substrates are required at distinct times and anatomical sites.
Resistance of immune-suppressed pigeons to subtypes H5N2 and H6N1 low pathogenic avian influenza virus.	Resistance to infection with avian influenza virus (AIV) was studied in healthy and immune-suppressed pigeons, which were treated with the immunosuppressant cyclophosphamide (Cy) before infection. Two subtypes of low pathogenic AIV (LPAIV; CK/TW/H5 and CK/TW/H6) were inoculated via the oculonasal route. Nested reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (nested RT-PCR) and virus isolation were used as detection methods. The Cy-treated and -untreated pigeons in both experiments did not shed viruses or become antibody positive throughout the 21-day observation period. All pigeons were negative for AIV RNA when trachea, lung, pancreas, spleen, kidney, and rectum tissues were examined. Negative results were also obtained in uninoculated contact chickens, which were housed together with H6N1 AIV-inoculated pigeons. Therefore, it was concluded that the pigeons are resistant to infection with these two LPAIVs and do not serve as transmission hosts, even in the presence of immune dysfunction.
Immune response to recombinant Escherichia coli Iss protein in poultry.	Colibacillosis accounts for significant losses to the poultry industry, and control efforts are hampered by limited understanding of the mechanisms used by avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) to cause disease. We have found that the presence of the increased serum survival gene (iss) is strongly associated with APEC but not with commensal E. coli, making iss, and the protein it encodes (Iss), candidate targets of colibacillosis control procedures. To assess the potential of Iss to elicit a protective response in chickens against APEC challenge, Iss fusion proteins were produced and administered subcutaneously to four groups of 2-wk-old specific-pathogen-free leghorn chickens. At 4 wk postimmunization, birds were challenged with APEC from serogroups 02 and 078 via intramuscular injection. At 2 wk postchallenge, birds were necropsied, and lesions consistent with colibacillosis were scored. Also, sera were collected from the birds pre- and postimmunization, and antibody titers to Iss were determined. Immunized birds produced a humoral response to Iss, and they had significantly lower lesion scores than the unimmunized control birds following challenge with both APEC strains. Birds that received the smallest amount of immunogen had the lowest lesion scores. Although further study will be needed to confirm the value of Iss as an immunoprotective antigen, these preliminary data suggest that Iss may have the potential to elicit significant protection in birds against heterologous E. coli challenge.
Evaluation of pathogenicity of avian poxvirus isolates from endangered Hawaiian wild birds in chickens.	Pathogenicity of two avian poxviruses isolated from endangered Hawaiian wild birds, the Hawaiian Goose and the Palila, was compared with fowl poxvirus in chickens. Immune responses were measured by ELISA pre- and postimmunization with Hawaiian poxviruses and after challenge with fowl poxvirus. Both isolates from Hawaiian birds developed only a localized lesion of short duration at the site of inoculation in specific-pathogen-free chickens and did not provide protection against subsequent challenge with virulent fowl poxvirus. On the other hand, birds inoculated with virulent fowl poxvirus developed severe lesions. In contrast to high antibody response in chickens immunized with fowl poxvirus, birds immunized with either of the two Hawaiian isolates developed low to moderate antibody responses against viral antigens. The level of immune responses, however, increased in birds of all groups following subsequent challenge.
Enhanced gross visualization of chicken Peyer's patch: novel staining technique applied to fresh tissue specimens.	The ileal Peyer's patches (Pp), secondary gut-associated lymphoid tissue of the mucosal immune system, may serve as an important site for monitoring inflammatory and immunologic responses of the host against enteric pathogens. Chicken Pp are often difficult to observe grossly, and a simple technique to enhance visualization of the Pp is lacking. Therefore, we designed a novel staining method that is quick, easy, and accurate to aid in gross identification and recovery of the chicken Pp from fresh tissue specimens. Lower alimentary tracts were harvested from White Leghorn hens and commercial broilers. The ileocecocolic region was excised intact, flushed with deionized water to remove ingesta, and a dilute eosin-Y solution was infused. After 1 min, the eosin-Y was gently extruded. Modified-crystal violet (mCV) was then injected into the gastrointestinal segment, where on the lymphoid tissue area became apparent at the serosal surface. The distal ileal Pp was visible as a pale whitish pink ovoid-focalized area with surrounding gut tissue stained light purple. The exact Pp site could be delineated at the serosal and mucosal surface by gross assessment. Light microscopy evaluation of hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue slides prepared from the excised Pp site revealed lymphoid tissue aggregations with multiple follicular units indicative of Pp. The novel eosin-Y + mCV staining technique promotes rapid identification and accurate recovery of chicken Pp lymphoid tissue from fresh tissue specimens.
Effect of infectious bursal disease virus insult on iron, copper, and zinc concentration in liver, bursa of Fabricius, spleen, pancreas, and serum of chickens.	The effect of a systemic disease on the dynamics of iron, zinc, and copper in chickens fed ad libitum was examined by infecting 10-day-old specific pathogen-free chickens with infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV). Liver, bursa of Fabricius, pancreas, spleen, and serum were sampled in 10 controls and 10 challenged chickens at 3-day intervals postinfection (PI) for 15 days. The samples were analyzed using atomic absorption spectroscopy. Serum levels were similar to that reported in the literature. Concentrations of iron and zinc did not change significantly in the pancreas, but there was an increase in copper in infected pancreatic tissue on days 9 and 15 PI. Iron concentration in the spleen showed a significant increase on days 6, 9, and 15 PI, whereas zinc was only significantly increased on day 15 PI. There was no significant change in copper concentrations in the spleens of infected chickens vs. controls. This finding is in line with previously reported data. The results showed that the liver was not a major tissue where iron and zinc were sequestered, as previous data have shown in mammals. Instead, the bursa of Fabricius had significantly increased levels of both iron and zinc in infected tissue vs. control tissue from 9 days PI on. Furthermore, the bursa had increased levels of copper in the latter portion of the study. These findings suggest that the bursa of Fabricius rather than the liver is the major organ for metallic ion sequestering during IBDV infection.
Pulmonary exposure to 1 --> 3-beta-glucan alters adaptive immune responses in rats.	1 --> 3-beta-glucans have been associated with increased pulmonary inflammation in fungal-related indoor air problems. Epidemiological studies have shown a correlation between increases in T-cell proliferation and decreases in CD4+/CD8+ ratio after exposure to fungi. The objective of the present investigation was to determine the mechanisms by which 1 --> 3-beta-glucans affect immune responses using an animal model. Rats received a single dose of zymosan A (2.5 mg/kg body weight) via intratracheal instillation (IT) and were euthanized on days 1, 4, 6, 8, and 10 post IT. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed at each time point post-IT. Inflammation and lung injury were assessed by measuring neutrophil infiltration into bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and by measuring albumin and lactate dehydrogenase levels in BALF, respectively. Alveolar macrophage activation was determined by chemiluminescence. Immune response was characterized via immunophenotyping of bronchoalveolar lavage cells and lymphocytes isolated from the lung-associated lymph nodes. Upon challenge with zymosan, rats exhibited increased inflammation and injury at early time points (days 1 and 4) post IT exposure. Although elevations in neutrophil infiltration and chemiluminescence had returned to control levels on day 4, lymphocytes recovered from lung-associated lymph nodes continued to proliferate and reached a maximum on day 6. The CD4+/CD8+ T cell ratio from lymph nodes was lower in zymosan-treated rats than in control rats. Zymosan treatment increased tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, and IL-12p70 secretion in BALF on day 1. In summary, rats exposed to zymosan had an increase in acute inflammation, and the altered lymphocyte profiles were consistent with the findings of epidemiology studies.
Distribution and genotoxic effects after successive exposure to different uranium oxide particles inhaled by rats.	In nuclear fuel cycle facilities, workers may inhale airborne uranium compounds that lead to internal contamination, with various exposure scenarios depending on the workplace. These exposures can be chronic, repeated, or acute, and can involve many different compounds. The effect of uranium after multiple scenarios of exposure is unknown. The aim of this study, therefore, was to investigate the genotoxic and biokinetics consequences of exposure to depleted insoluble uranium dioxide (UO2) by repeated or acute inhalation on subsequent acute inhalation of moderately soluble uranium peroxide (UO4) in rats. The results show that UO2 repeated preexposure by inhalation increases the genotoxic effects of UO4 inhalation, assessed by comet assay, in different cell types, when UO4 exposure alone has no effect. At the same time, the study of UO4 bioaccumulation showed that the UO4 biokinetics in the kidneys, gastrointestinal tract, and excreta, but not in the lungs, were slightly modified by previous UO2 exposures. All these results show that both genotoxic and biokinetics effects of uranium may depend on preexposure and that repeated exposure induces a potentiation effect compared with acute exposure.
Increasing dietary crude protein does not increase the essential amino acid requirements of kittens.	Essential amino acid (EAA) requirements of omnivores and herbivores (e.g. chicks, lambs, pigs and rats) are directly related to the concentration of dietary crude protein (CP). When an EAA is limiting in the diet, addition of a mixture of EAA lacking the limiting one (which increases dietary CP) results in a decrease in food intake and weight gain. This interaction has been referred to as an AA imbalance and has not been studied in depth in strict carnivores. The objectives of these experiments were to examine the effects on growing kittens (2-week periods) of the addition to diets of a mixture of AA lacking the limiting one. The control diets were at the requirement of the respective limiting EAA (or about 85% of the 1986 National Research Council requirement). In experiment 1, with the dietary EAAs at the minimally determined requirements, the concentration of the essential or dispensable amino acids was increased to determine if CP or an EAA was limiting. Results of growth rates (n = 12) and plasma AA concentrations indicated that tryptophan was limiting, but increased body weight gain also occurred when the concentration of CP was increased as dispensable amino acids without additional tryptophan. Experiment 1 was repeated in experiment 2 using a crossover design. Again, when tryptophan was limiting additional concentrations of dispensable AAs increased body weight gain. This response is the opposite of that in herbivores and omnivores. Experiment 3 consisted of 10 separate crossover trials, one for each of the 10 EAA and examined the effect of two concentrations of dietary CP (200 and 300 g CP/kg diet) on body weight gain of kittens (n = 8) offered diets limiting in each respective EAA. Body weight gain was numerically greater when diets contained 300 g CP/kg than 200 g CP/kg for eight of 10 EAAs (p < 0.05 for only isoleucine and threonine) when each amino acid was limiting. This response is the reverse of that which occurs in chicks, lambs, pigs and rats when an EAA is limiting and dietary CP lacking the limiting EAA is increased. These results indicate that the EAA requirements of kittens are not positively correlated with dietary CP concentrations.
Absence of vertical transmission of Helicobacter pylori in an experimental murine model.	Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is acquired mainly in early childhood but the precise transmission routes are unclear. This study examined the maternal H. pylori infection status in order to determine the potential of perinatal transmission. These issues were investigated using an experimental murine model, the Mongolian gerbil, which has been reported to be the most suitable laboratory animal model for studying H. pylori. Pregnant Mongolian gerbils, infected experimentally with H. pylori, were divided into two groups. The stomachs of the mother and litters were isolated and assessed for the transmission of H. pylori at the prenatal period (2 weeks after pregnancy) and at the parturition day. The bacterial culture, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and rapid urease test were used to examine the presence of the transmitted H. pylori. There was no H. pylori observed in any of the fetuses during pregnancy and in the litters at parturition. This suggests that vertical infection during the prenatal period or delivery procedure is unlikely to be route of mother-tochild transmission of a H. pylori infection.
Efficacy of VP2 protein expressed in E. coli for protection against highly virulent infectious bursal disease virus.	The ability of a heat-inactivated whole virus from a highly virulent infectious bursal disease virus (hvIBDV) and VP2 protein from hvIBDV expressed in E. coli provided protection against a hvIBDV challenge in specificpathogen-free (SPF) chickens. Six out of seven chickens that were injected three times with crude VP2 protein developed significant antibody titer against IBDV. However, only four out of the seven chickens survived the hvIBDV challenge. Despite showing low antibody titer profiles, all chickens immunized with the heat-inactivated whole virus also survived the challenged with hvIBDV. However, all of these chickens had bursal atrophy and mild to moderate depletion of lymphocytes. Thus, antibodies raised against IBDV VP2 protein expressed in E. coli and denatured IBDV proteins induced some degree of protection against mortality but not against bursal damage following challenge with hvIBDV.
Enhanced immune response with foot and mouth disease virus VP1 and interleukin-1 fusion genes.	The capsid of the foot and mouth disease (FMD) virus carries the epitopes that are critical for inducing the immune response. In an attempt to enhance the specific immune response, plasmid DNA was constructed to express VP1/interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) and precursor capsid (P1) in combination with 2A (P1-2A)/IL-1alpha under the control of the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) immediateearly promoter and intron. After DNA transfection into MA104 (monkey kidney) cells, Western blotting and an immunofluorescence assay were used to confirm the expression of VP1 or P1-2A and IL-1alpha. Mice were inoculated with the encoding plasmids via the intradermal route, and the IgG1 and IgG2a levels were used to determine the immune responses. These results show that although the immunized groups did not carry a high level of neutralizing antibodies, the plasmids encoding the VP1/ IL-1alpha, and P1-2A /IL-1alpha fused genes were effective in inducing an enhanced immune response.
Increased tolerance of Litopenaeus vannamei to white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) infection after oral application of the viral envelope protein VP28.	It has been generally accepted that invertebrates such as shrimp do not have an adaptive immune response system comparable to that of vertebrates. However, in the last few years, several studies have suggested the existence of such a response in invertebrates. In one of these studies, the shrimp Penaeus monodon showed increased protection against white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) using a recombinant VP28 envelope protein of WSSV. In an effort to further investigate whether this increased protection is limited to P. monodon or can be extended to other penaeid shrimp, experiments were performed using the Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei. As found with P. monodon, a significantly lower cumulative mortality for VP28-fed shrimp was found compared to the controls. These experiments demonstrate that there is potential to use oral application of specific proteins to protect the 2 most important cultured shrimp species, P. monodon and L. vannamei, against WSSV. Most likely, this increased protection is based on a shared and, therefore, general defence mechanism present in all shrimp species. This makes the design of intervention strategies against pathogens based on defined proteins a viable option for shrimp culture.
Preservation of necrotizing hepatopancreatitis bacterium (NHPB) by freezing tissue collected from experimentally infected Litopenaeus vannamei.	Necrotizing hepatopancreatitis (NHP), a severe disease of penaeid shrimp, is caused by bacteria (NHPB) that have previously been demonstrated to reside in tubular epithelial hepatopancreatic (HP) cells of infected shrimp. There has yet to be a successful in vitro culture method to grow the intracellular organism; therefore, it must be propagated in vivo via transmission from NHPB-infected shrimp to healthy individuals. In our studies, NHPB propagation tanks containing infected shrimp were used to maintain a constant supply of organisms for experiments. In order to develop a method for storing infectious NHPB material for future challenge studies, we collected HP tissue containing NHPB by flash freezing whole, fresh HPs at -80 degrees C for up to 80 d and used it to successfully infect specific pathogen-free Litopenaeus vannamei per os in controlled experiments. HP tissue samples were collected from dead shrimp, and PCR was performed to confirm the presence of NHPB. Our results demonstrate that the infectivity of NHPB in tissue is not altered after being frozen at -80 degrees C when compared to NHPB in fresh tissue. Thus, the continual propagation of NHPB in vivo is not required to assure a source of the infectious agent.
Gene transfer to the gastrointestinal tract after peroral administration of recombinant adeno-associated virus type 2 vectors.	The transfer of exogenous genetic material to cells within the gastrointestinal (GI) tract has many potential therapeutic applications. An attractive feature of the GI tract for gene transfer is its accessibility through the orogastric route. In this study, we evaluated the stability of recombinant adeno-associated virus type 2 (rAAV2) vectors within the GI tract and whether rAAV2-mediated gene transfer could be increased through manipulation of the intraluminal environment.
Different islet protein expression profiles during spontaneous diabetes development vs. allograft rejection in BB-DP rats.	Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is characterized by selective autoimmune destruction of the insulin producing beta-cells in the islets of Langerhans. When the beta-cells are destroyed exogenous administration of insulin is necessary for maintenance of glucose homeostasis. Allogeneic islet transplantation has been used as a means to circumvent the need for insulin administration and has in some cases been able to restore endogenous insulin production for years. However, long life immunosuppression is needed to prevent the graft from being rejected and destroyed. Changes in protein expression pattern during spontaneous diabetes development in the diabetes prone BioBreeding rat (BB-DP) have previously been described. In the present study, we have investigated if any of the changes seen in the protein expression pattern during spontaneous diabetes development are also present during allograft rejection of BB-DP rat islets. Two hundred neonatal islets were syngeneically transplanted under the kidney capsule of 30 day old BB-DP rats and removed prior to and at onset of diabetes. Allogeneically transplanted islets from BB-DP rats were removed before onset of allograft rejection and at maximal islet graft inflammation (rejection). The protein expression profiles of the transplants were visualised by two-dimensional gel (2-DG) electrophoresis, analysed and compared. In total, 2590 protein spots were visualised and of these 310 changed expression (p < 0.01) in syngeneic islet transplants in the BB-DP rats from 7 days after transplantation until onset of diabetes. In BB-DP islets transplanted to WK rats 53 protein spots (p < 0.01) showed changes in expression when comparing islet grafts removed 7 days after transplantation with islet grafts removed 12 days after transplantation where mononuclear cell infiltration is at its maximum. Only four protein spots (1%) were significantly changed in both syngeneic (autoimmune) and allogeneic islet destruction. When comparing protein expression changes in syngeneic BB-DP islet transplants from 37 days after transplantation to onset of diabetes with protein expression changes in allografts from day 7 to 12 after transplantation only three spot were found to commonly change expression in both situations. In conclusion, a large number of protein expression changes were detected in both autoimmune islet destruction and allogeneic islet rejection, only two overlaps were detected, suggesting that autoimmune islet destruction and allogeneic islet rejection may result from different target cell responses to signals induced by the cellular infiltrate. Whether this reflects activation of distinct signalling pathways in islet cells is currently unknown and need to be further investigated.
Immune competence of cancer-reactive T cells generated de novo in adult tumor-bearing mice.	The impact of timing of antigen introduction into fetus and neonates leads to the suggestion that pre-existing antigens are tolerogenic to immunocompetent cells generated thereafter. This hypothesis predicts that in patients with cancer who are undergoing bone marrow transplantation, newly produced T cells with specificity for pre-existing tumor cells will be inactivated by the tumor antigens in the host. Because the effect of tumor cells on developing cancer-reactive T cells has not been investigated, we set out to systematically analyze the impact of tumor cells in the periphery on the development of tumor-reactive T cells in the thymus and their immunocompetence in the periphery. Our data demonstrate that in the host in which a tumor is established in the periphery, the cancer-reactive T cells develop normally, remain fully immunocompetent, become activated in the periphery, and cause regression of large established tumors. The immunocompetence of T cells generated in an antigen-bearing host is also confirmed in a skin graft transplantation model.
Toxocara canis: effect of inoculum size on pulmonary pathology and cytokine expression in BALB/c mice.	Infection of mice with Toxocara canis results in pulmonary inflammation and the induction of a Th2 type of immune response. The aim of this study was to determine whether the effect of infection with this nematode depends on the inoculum size. Results indicate that mice infected with either a high or a low inoculum size showed, in a dose-dependent manner, pulmonary inflammation with eosinophil infiltration, increased levels of total IgE, and Toxocara-specific IgG1 that persisted up to 60 days p.i. Relative quantification of cytokine expression in lungs of mice infected with different doses showed proportional increased expression of the IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 transcripts, whereas the expression of the IFN-gamma transcript was not different from that of uninfected controls. These results indicate that infection of BALB/c mice with T. canis results in chronic pulmonary inflammation and a dominant Th2 type of immune response, independent of the inoculum size.
High expression of a novel leucine-rich repeat protein in hemocytes and the lymphoid organ of the black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon.	A novel leucine-rich repeat (LRR) cDNA has been cloned from hemocytes of the black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon by 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The full-length of P. monodon LRR (PmLRR) consisted of 2604 bp with a 1686-bp open reading frame, encoding 561 amino acids. The deduced protein contained a high proportion of leucine residues (17%) and had significant homology to LRR-containing proteins from bacteria to humans. Sixteen tandem LRR motifs of 23-24 amino acids in length occurred in the primary sequence. The computed 3D structure revealed a horseshoe shape consisting of alternately repeated strand and helical domains. Such structures are generally considered to mediate protein - protein interactions and to our knowledge, this is the first report of an LRR protein from a crustacean. PmLRR expression was tissue-specific (i.e. highest in hemocytes, intestine and lymphoid organ) suggesting that it may play some roles in shrimp defense against pathogens. A preliminary test suggested that PmLRR may be down-regulated after viral injection.
Swine infection with Trichinella spiralis: Comparative analysis of the mucosal intestinal and systemic immune responses.	The immune protective response developed by swine against Trichinella spiralis is not yet fully understood, particularly at the mucosal level. This study aimed to characterise intestinal immunity to T. spiralis by comparison with the systemic response in specifically pathogen-free pigs. For this purpose, the kinetics of cytokine and antibody production were assessed in the intestinal mucosa and serum of swine infected with T. spiralis for up to 60 days post-infection (dpi). An ex vivo model of jejunum mucosa culture was used to collect the supernatant as a source of antibodies (Abs). Mucosal antibodies were observed by Western blot from 15 dpi, while serum antibodies were expressed from 20 dpi. Both sources of antibodies initially recognized a 110 kDa protein, followed by the identification of 35, 43/46 and 55/59 kDa proteins. IgG1 and IgA antibodies were strongly expressed within the mucosa. The expression levels of Type 1 (IFN-gamma, IL-12), Type 2 (IL-4, IL-6), pro-inflammatory (TNF-alpha) and regulatory (IL-10, TGF-beta) cytokines were assessed by RT-PCR in the intestinal mucosa and spleen. Both IL-10 and IFN-gamma mRNA levels were increased in mucosa, whereas IL-6 and IL-12 mRNA were expressed in spleen. Taken together, these results demonstrated a mixed Type 1/Type 2 profile, the Type 2 profile being dominant in the mucosa.
Recombinant M. smegmatis vaccine targeted delivering IL-12/GLS into macrophages can induce specific cellular immunity against M. tuberculosis in BALB/c mice.	In the present study, we constructed a viable therapeutic vaccine of recombinant M. smegmatis mediated IL-12/GLS (granulysin) gene transfer into murine macrophages to exert the immunotherapy effects on the Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. We tested this recombinant therapeutic vaccine in an in vivo study to determine its capability of stimulating host specific immune responses against M. tuberculosis. BALB/c mice intranasally immunized with the therapeutic vaccine developed an efficient Th1 protective immune response against M. tuberculosis which was equal to that of the BCG strain. Inoculation intranasally with this viable vaccine induced high level of serum IFN-gamma, IL-12 and IgG2a. The viable vaccine was capable of inducing purified protein derivative (PPD) antigen-specific splenocytes proliferation and IFN-gamma production from T cells in spleens of the immunized mice. In addition, intranasally inoculation with the viable vaccine can induce PPD antigen-specific sIgA production in the broncho-alveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of the immunized mice. No change of IL-4 level was found in all groups. The therapeutic mechanism of this viable vaccine against M. tuberculosis infection observed here appeared to be a result of the specific Th1 immune response activated by mycobacterium antigen from M. smegmatis and the expression of sIL-12/GLS in alveolar macrophages via the M. smegmatis-mediated gene transfer method. This research demonstrates that the therapeutic gene can be introduced into a host by viable mycobacteria works to induce the host specific immune response against M. tuberculosis infection in vivo. Since this therapeutic vaccine can strongly induce specific Th1 responses against M. tuberculosis in BALB/c mice and has no obviously harmfulness to the host simultaneously, the recombinant vaccine might be a potential candidate therapeutic vaccine against tuberculosis.
Primary influenza A virus infection induces cross-protective immunity against a lethal infection with a heterosubtypic virus strain in mice.	In order to assess the level of protection against a lethal influenza virus infection provided by a primary infection with a virus strain of another subtype, C57BL/6 mice were infected with the sublethal influenza virus X-31 (H3N2) and subsequently challenged with the lethal strain A/PR/8/34 (H1N1). The outcome of the challenge infection was compared with that in mice that did not experience an infection with influenza virus X-31 prior to the challenge infection. The X-31 experienced mice cleared the infection with influenza virus A/PR/8/34 in an accelerated fashion, displayed less clinical signs and a reduction of lesions in the lungs resulting in improved survival rates of these mice compared to the naive mice. The improved outcome of the challenge infection with influenza virus A/PR/8/34 in the X-31 experienced mice correlated with priming for anamnestic virus-specific CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses as was demonstrated by the detection of CTL specific for the H-2D(b) restricted NP(366-374) epitope that was shared by the influenza viruses X-31 and A/PR/8/34. Thus previous exposure to influenza A viruses affords partial protection against infection in the absence of virus-neutralizing antibodies specific for the hemagglutinin and the neuraminidase. The implications of these observations are discussed in the light of the current pandemic threat and development of vaccines that aim at the induction of virus-specific CTL.
A probiotic strain of Lactobacillus plantarum stimulates lymphocyte responses in immunologically intact and immunocompromised mice.	Experimental evidences showing the immunomodulatory effects of probiotic microorganisms have been provided by studies on immunologically intact animals. Here we compared the immunomodulation capacity of a probiotic strain of Lactobacillus plantarum on intact and cyclophosphamide-treated BALB/c mice. Although this strain fulfilled the in vitro criteria for the selection of potentially probiotic bacteria (resistance to low pH and bile, adhesion to epithelial cells and antimicrobial activity), it was unable to establish a persistent colonization in the gastrointestinal tract after intragastric gavage. The administration of L. plantarum did not modify the cyclophosphamide-induced leukopenia, but partially restored the proliferation of spleen cells from cyclophosphamide-treated mice in response to lipopolysaccharide. Our findings show that probiotic bacteria may exert immunomodulatory effects despite a limited colonization ability and may improve the immune function damaged by immunosuppressive agents.
Capillary zone electrophoresis method for fingerprint of allantoic fluid in normal and infected SPF embryonated chicken eggs.	A capillary zone electrophoresis method was developed for fingerprint determination of allantoic fluid in specific pathogen free (SPF) embryonated chicken eggs. The effects of some crucial parameters, such as buffer type, pH, wavelength and running voltage on the separation were studied systematically. The components of the allantoic fluid were well separated using a fused-silica uncoated capillary with an effective length of 50 cm and an internal diameter of 50 microm. One hundred millimolars sodium tetraborate buffer containing 20 mM sodium dihydrogen phosphate with a final pH 9.8 was used as a running buffer. Comparative fingerprints of allantoic fluid in normal and infected with infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) SPF embryonated chicken eggs were also evaluated. The results showed that there were significant differences between composition of normal allantoic fluid and allantoic fluid infected with IBV, which led to different migration behavior. This method was shown to be stable and reproducible with a relative standard deviation of less than 5% for both migration time and peak current.
Pulmonary biochemical and histological alterations after repeated low-level blast overpressure exposures.	Blast overpressure (BOP), also known as high energy impulse noise, is a damaging outcome of explosive detonations and firing of weapons. Exposure to BOP shock waves alone results in injury predominantly to the hollow organ systems such as auditory, respiratory, and gastrointestinal systems. In recent years, the hazards of BOP that once were confined to military and professional settings have become a global societal problem as terrorist bombings and armed conflicts involving both military and civilian populations increased significantly. We have previously investigated the effects of single BOP exposures at different peak pressures. In this study, we examined the effects of repeated exposure to a low-level BOP and whether the number of exposures or time after exposure would alter the injury outcome. We exposed deeply anesthetized rats to simulated BOP at 62 +/- 2 kPa peak pressure. The lungs were examined immediately after one exposure (1 + 0), or 1 h after one (1 + 1), two (2 + 1), or three (3 + 1) consecutive exposures at 3-min interval. In one group of animals, we examined the effects of repeated exposure on lung weight, methemoglobin, transferrin, antioxidants, and lipid peroxidation. In a second group, the lungs were fixed inflated at 25 cm water, sectioned, and examined histologically after one to three repeated exposures, or after one exposure at 1, 6, and 24 h. We found that single BOP exposure causes notable changes after 1 h, and that repeating BOP exposure did not add markedly to the effect of the first one. However, the effects increased significantly with time from 1 to 24 h. These observations have biological and occupational implications, and emphasize the need for protection from low-level BOP, and for prompt treatment within the first hour following BOP exposure.
Implication of B lymphocytes in endotoxin-induced hepatic injury after partial hepatectomy in rats.	Lymphocyte population constitutes major defense mechanism against endotoxemia, but the role of B lymphocytes in endotoxin-induced hepatic injury after hepatectomy is not clear.
Immunostimulatory properties of a novel adjuvant administered with inactivated influenza virus vaccine.	The immunopotentiating activity of a new delivery system was investigated comparatively to Alhydrogel adjuvant, as an antiviral inactivated vaccine after one injection. The efficiency of the new formulation (BioMed) was evaluated with an inactivated porcine strain of influenza (A/Sw/IN/1726/88 H1N1) in the pig model. The first assessment criteria was the follow-up of selected immunological parameters such as, antibody levels, lymphoproliferation, double positive CD4+CD8+ T lymphocytes and cytokine production (IL-2, IL-4, IFN-gamma). The second criteria was the estimate of the protection level of animals exposed to a homologous challenge of 50 PID50 one month after a single immunizing or control injection. In the BioMed group of animals, 4 pigs (out of 6) were free of macroscopic lesion, while lesions could be seen in all individuals of other groups and virus was isolated in only one animal, whereas all other animals of other groups had virus in their lungs. This better protection of BioMed animals seems to be correlated mainly with higher levels of antibodies and to a lesser extent with a slightly better CMI response and probably with the production of memory CD4+CD8+ T cells.
Evaluation of developmental toxicity of amitraz in Sprague-Dawley rats.	This study investigated the potential adverse effects of amitraz on the initiation and maintenance of pregnancy in Sprague-Dawley rats as well as its effects on embryo-fetal development after maternal exposure during the entire pregnancy period. Amitraz was administered to pregnant rats by gavage from days 1 to 19 of gestation at dose levels of 0, 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg/day. All dams underwent a caesarean section on day 20 of gestation and their fetuses were examined for any external, visceral, and skeletal abnormalities. At 30 mg/kg, maternal toxicity manifested as an increase in the incidence of abnormal clinical signs and a lower body weight gain and food intake. Developmental toxicity included an increase in the fetal death rate, a decrease in the litter size, and a reduction in the fetal body weight. In addition, there was an increase in the incidence of fetal external, visceral, and skeletal abnormalities. At 10 mg/kg, maternal toxicity observed included a decrease in the body weight gain and a decrease in food intake. In addition, minimal developmental toxicity, including a decrease in the fetal body weight, an increase in the visceral and skeletal aberrations, and a delay in fetal ossification. There were no signs of either maternal toxicity or developmental toxicity at 3 mg/kg. These results show that amitraz administered during the entire pregnancy period in rats is embryotoxic and teratogenic at the maternally toxic dose (i.e., 30 mg/kg/day) and is minimally embryotoxic at a minimally maternally toxic dose (i.e., 10 mg/kg/day). Under these experimental conditions, the no-observed-adverse-effect level of amitraz for both dams and embryo-fetal development is estimated to be 3 mg/kg/day.
Apoptosis induced by ID6105, a new anthracycline (11-hydroxyaclacinomycin X, Hyrubicin), and its anti-tumor effects on experimental tumor models.	A new anthracycline ID6105 (11-hydroxyaclacinomycin X, Hyrubicin), which has potent antitumor activities against a broad range of cancer cell lines, was produced by hybrid biosynthetic approach. We investigated ID6105-induced apoptosis and in vivo efficacy on experimental tumors, and also defined its optimal dosing schedule. From PARP cleavage assay and caspase-3 activation assay, we found that ID6105 can induce apoptosis in tumor cells and its ability was superior to doxorubicin. In human tumor xenograft models, ID6105 showed greater antitumor effects on SW620 and NCI-H23 than doxorubicin. The 1 mg/kg of ID6105 treatment reduced size of tumor by 93% in NCI-H23 model whereas doxorubicin (2 mg/kg) showed only 39% inhibition rate. In SW620 model, 0.3 mg/kg of ID6105 proved to be comparable to 2 mg/kg of doxorubicin. Testing with several dosing schedule such as qd10, qd5, and q4d3, we decided intravenous qd5 treatment was an optimal schedule as a dose regimen of ID6105. In conclusion, ID6105 is a potent apoptosis-inducing anthracycline and effective in treatment of tumors with qd5 dosing schedule.
VP4-specific intestinal antibody response to rotavirus in a murine model of heterotypic infection.	We have adapted a murine model of heterotypic rotavirus infection for the purpose of evaluating the intestinal antibody response to an infection that mimics human vaccination. Neonatal mice were infected with the rhesus rotavirus (RRV). The enzyme-linked immunospot assay was used in order to avoid common artifacts in the quantitation of intestinal immune responses inherent in measurements of luminal or serum immunoglobulins and to obtain easily quantifiable data in a flexible and convenient format. Functionally active lymphocytes were harvested from the spleen, small intestinal lamina propria, Peyer's patches, and mesenteric lymph nodes and processed into single-cell suspensions. Antibody-secreting cells (ASC) were quantitated from 5 to 50 days after infection for total, RRV-specific, baculovirus-expressed VP4-specific, and single-shell RRV-specific ASC secreting either immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, or IgA. The response to VP4 constituted less than 1.5% of the total virus-specific response, which was located almost exclusively in the gut and was 90% IgA. Intestinal ASC were directed overwhelmingly toward proteins incorporated in the single-shell particle, predominantly VP2 and VP6. We conclude that the antibody response to VP4, thought to be the site of the important neutralization sites conserved among several rotavirus serotypes, is an extremely small portion of the overall antibody response in the intestinal tract.
Feline immunodeficiency virus infects both CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes.	Monoclonal populations of feline T cells, derived from a specific-pathogen-free cat and expressing either the CD4 or CD8 surface antigen, were infected in vitro with two geographically distinct isolates of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV). Both infected T-cell subsets exhibited decreased cell viability, expressed FIV-encoded proteins, and generated reverse transcriptase activity. All clones examined retained their original surface phenotype after infection. It appears, therefore, that both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells may be productively infected by FIV in vivo.
Quantification of stress sensitive markers in single fecal samples do not accurately predict excretion of these in the pig.	All feces produced during 24 h were collected from five pigs and cortisol and immunoreactive cortisol metabolites (CICM), and IgA were quantified. Within pigs, the concentrations of CICM and IgA varied extensively between random samples obtained from a single fecal dropping, and deviated in most cases significantly from the true concentration measured in total fecal output (CV 6.7-130%). The CICM and IgA contents varied considerably (CV 8.1-114%) within and between individual fecal droppings from the same pig compared to the total fecal excretion. In conclusion, single random samples could not be used to reliably quantify the total fecal concentration or excretion of CICM or IgA in pigs. Analyses of all feces collected during shorter periods than 24 h did not provide an accurate estimate of the daily excretion of CICM. Thus, the concentration of stress sensitive molecules in random single fecal samples as an indicator of animal welfare should be interpreted with prudence.
Insights into the immune transcriptome of the shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei: tissue-specific expression profiles and transcriptomic responses to immune challenge.	Infectious disease constitutes a major obstacle to the sustainability of shrimp aquaculture worldwide and a significant threat to natural populations of shrimp and other crustacea. The study of the shrimp immune system, including the response to viral infection, has been hampered by a relative lack of molecular genetic information and of tools suitable for high-throughput assessment of gene expression. In this report, the generation of a cDNA microarray encompassing 2,469 putative unigenes expressed in gills, circulating hemocytes, and hepatopancreas of Litopenaeus vannamei is described. The unigenes printed on the microarray were derived from the analyses of 7,021 expressed sequence tags obtained from standard cDNA libraries as well as from libraries generated by suppression subtractive hybridization, after challenging shrimp with a variety of immune stimuli. The general utility of the cDNA microarray was demonstrated by interrogating the array with labeled RNA from four different shrimp tissues (gills, hemocytes, hepatopancreas, and muscle) and by analyzing the transcriptomic response of shrimp to a lethal challenge with white spot syndrome virus. Our results indicate that white spot syndrome virus infection upregulates (in the hepatopancreas) genes encoding known and potential antimicrobial effectors, while some genes involved in protection from oxidative stress were found to be downregulated by the virus.
Immunohistochemical characterization of Fas (CD95) and Fas Ligand (FasL/CD95L) expression in the injured brain: relationship with neuronal cell death and inflammatory mediators.	Traumatic brain injury causes progressive tissue atrophy and consequent neurological dysfunction, resulting from neuronal cell death in both animal models and patients. Fas (CD95) and Fas ligand (FasL/CD95L) are important mediators of apoptosis. However, little is known about the relationship between Fas and FasL and neuronal cell death in mice lacking the genes for inflammatory cytokines. In the present study, double tumor necrosis factor/lymphotoxin-alpha knockout (-/-) and interleukin-6-/- mice were subjected to closed head injury (CHI) and sacrificed at 24 hours or 7 days post-injury. Consecutive brain sections were evaluated for Fas and FasL expression, in situ DNA fragmentation (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling; TUNEL), morphologic characteristics of apoptotic cell death and leukocyte infiltration. A peak incidence of TUNEL positive cells was found in the injured cortex at 24 hours which remained slightly elevated at 7 days and coincided with maximum Fas expression. FasL was only moderately increased at 24 hours and showed maximum expression at 7 days. A few TUNEL positive cells were also found in the ipsilateral hippocampus at 24 hours. Apoptotic, TUNEL positive cells mostly co-localized with neurons and Fas and FasL immunoreactivity. The amount of accumulated polymorphonuclear leukocytes and CD11b positive cells was maximal in the injured hemispheres at 24 hours. We show strong evidence that Fas and FasL might be involved in neuronal apoptosis after CHI. Furthermore, Fas and FasL upregulation seems to be independent of neuroinflammation since no differences were found between cytokine-/- and wild-type mice.
Kurozu moromimatsu inhibits tumor growth of Lovo cells in a mouse model in vivo.	In Japan, rice vinegar that has been matured and fermented for years in earthenware jars is considered a health food with anticolon cancer action. It is divided into the liquid component (Kurozu) and the sediment (Kurozu moromimatsu), which contains large amounts of organic materials and minerals. The effect of Kurozu moromimatsu (Kurozu-M) on cancer has not yet been examined. In this study, we examined the activity of Kurozu-M on colon cancer and investigated the mechanisms involved, focusing on active oxygen generation, apoptosis, and metalloproteinases (MMPs).
Experimental infection of C3H/HeJ mice with the NY18 isolate of Anaplasma phagocytophilum.	Human granulocytic anaplasmosis (HGA), an emerging disease of public health concern in many areas of the world, is caused by Anaplasma phagocytophilum. Small animal models of A phagocytophilum in laboratory mice have been developed and used to study the pathogenesis of HGA. In this study, we characterized the pathologic changes in acute infection of C3H/HeJ mice experimentally infected with the NY18 isolate of A phagocytophilum. Although no clinical signs were noted, acute infection was associated with gross splenomegaly, microscopic inflammatory lesions in the lung and liver, hyperplastic lesions on the spleen, and clinical pathology abnormalities including neutropenia and monocytosis. This study emphasizes the use of well-defined animal models as a valuable tool for the study of A phagocytophilum infections.
Intestinal epithelial cell proliferation is dependent on the site of massive small bowel resection.	Early intestinal adaptation after massive small bowel resection (SBR) is driven by increased epithelial cell (EC) proliferation. There is a clear clinical difference in the post-operative course of patients after the loss of proximal (P) compared to distal (D) small bowel. This study examined the effects of the site of SBR on post-resectional intestinal adaptation, and investigated the potential mechanisms involved. C57BL/6J mice (n = 7/group) underwent: (1) 60% P-SBR, (2) 60% D-SBR, (3) 60% mid (M)-SBR and (4) SHAM-operation (transection/reanastomosis). Mice were sacrificed at 7 days after surgery and ECs and adjacent mucosal lymphocytes (IELs) isolated. Adaptation was assessed in both jejunum and ileum by quantification of villus height, crypt depth, villus cell size, crypt cell size (microns), goblet cell number, and EC proliferation (%BrdU incorporation). Proliferation signalling pathways including keratinocyte growth factor (KGF)/KGFR(1), IL-7/IL-7R, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) were measured by RT-PCR. Expression of IL-7 was further analysed by immunofluorescence. Data were analyzed using ANOVA. All three SBR models led to significant increases in villus height, crypt depth, goblet cell numbers and EC proliferation rate when compared to respective SHAM groups. The strongest morphometric changes were found for jejunal segments after M-SBR and for ileal segments after P-SBR. Furthermore, morphometric analysis showed that at 1-week post-resection a tremendous increase in EC numbers occurred in jejunal villi (cell hyperplasia), whereas a significant increase in EC size predominated in ileal villi (cell hypertrophy). mRNA expression of KGF, KGFR(1), IL-7R, and EGFR showed a significant increase only after D-SBR, whereas IL-7 increased significantly after SBR in all investigated models, and this was confirmed by immunofluorescence studies. Early intestinal adaptation shows distinct differences depending on the site of SBR, and is predominately driven by cell hyperplasia in jejunal villi and cell hypertrophy in ileal villi. However, the exact mechanisms, which guide these signalling pathways are still unclear.
Relative dominance of epitope-specific CD8+ T cell responses in an F1 hybrid mouse model of respiratory syncytial virus infection.	CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes are key effectors of adaptive immunity for the control of virus infections. Epitope-specific responses are hierarchical and the rules for dominance are not well defined. Here we show that the H2-Kd-restricted RSV M2(82-90) (KdM2(82-90)) epitope dominates the H2-Db-restricted RSV M187-195 (DbM187-195) epitope and influences epitope-specific effector function in the acute and memory phases of the immune response to primary RSV infection in H-2b/d hybrid mice. The hybrid mouse model provides a system to define rules of epitope hierarchy and better understand how antigen presentation and epitope competition affect the phenotype of effector and memory T cells.
Immunogenicity and protective effect against murine cerebral neosporosis of recombinant NcSRS2 in different iscom formulations.	Recombinant NcSRS2, a major immunodominant surface antigen of the intracellular protozoan parasite Neospora caninum, was used as a model antigen to compare the immunogenicity of iscoms prepared according to three different methods. Two NcSRS2 fusion proteins were used, one that was biotinylated upon expression in Escherichia coli and linked to Ni2+-loaded iscom matrix (iscom without any protein) via a hexahistidyl (His6)-tagged streptavidin fusion protein, and another that contained both a His6-tag and streptavidin (His6-SA-SRS2') and was coupled to either Ni2+-loaded or biotinylated matrix. While all three iscom preparations induced N. caninum specific antibodies at similar levels, His6-SA-SRS2' coupled to biotinylated matrix generated the strongest cellular responses measured as in vitro proliferation and production of interferon-gamma and interleukin-4 after antigen stimulation of spleen cells. However, the relationship between the levels of these cytokines as well as between IgG1 and IgG2a titres in serum induced by the three iscom preparations were similar, indicating that the balance between Th1 and Th2 responses did not differ. After challenge infection, mice immunised with His6-SA-SRS2' coupled to biotinylated matrix had significantly lower amounts of parasite DNA in their brains compared to the other immunised groups. Possible reasons for the performance of the different iscom formulations are discussed.
In vivo adaptation of the Wayne model of latent tuberculosis.	Cultures of Mycobacterium tuberculosis grown under oxygen depletion conditions enter into a state of nonreplicating persistence that may reflect a physiologically latent state. When these cultures were harvested and injected intranasally into mice, no bacteria could be recovered from the lungs for about 3 weeks, but after that evidence of regrowth was observed. Preimmunization of mice with a panel of selected vaccine candidates slowed or prevented this event. This simple model has potential for identifying vaccines targeting latent tuberculosis.
Quantification of nitrated tryptophan in proteins and tissues by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	Aromatic amino acids are targets of reactive nitrogen species (RNS) such as peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) and nitrogen dioxide. It is known that tryptophan (Trp) as well as tyrosine is nitrated, generated isomers. However, no quantitative method to determine nitrotryptophan (NO(2)Trp) in proteins has been developed so far. In this study, we have developed a method for the quantification of Trp and NO(2)Trp isomers, 2-, 4- and 6-NO(2)Trp, which uses liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). In order to confirm the applicability of our method to in vitro and in vivo system, we measured protein-bound NO(2)Trp levels in ONOO(-) treated bovine serum albumin (BSA) and in liver of B6C3F1 mice at 2, 4, and 8h after administration of 300 mg/kg acetaminophen (APAP). A mass spectrometer equipped with an electrospray ionization source using a crossflow counter electrode and ran in the positive ion mode (ESI(+)) was used for multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) of transitions 205-->188, 250-->130, 250-->159 and 250-->233 for Trp, 2-, 4- and 6-NO(2)Trp, respectively. The recoveries from mice liver samples were 98.3-105.9% for each compound. The limits of quantification were 50, 3.0, 10 and 4.0 nM for Trp, 2-, 4- and 6-NO(2)Trp, respectively. In in vitro experiments demonstrated that all isomers of NO(2)Trp were detectable from BSA treated with ONOO(-) and the amount generated decreased in the order of 6-, 4- and 2-NO(2)Trp. In in vivo experiments, 4- and 6-NO(2)Trp were detected in the liver of mice administered APAP. The concentration range of 4- and 6-NO(2)Trp per mol of Trp in the sample was 2.24-3.92 and 26.96-32.71 nmol/mol of Trp, and its existence in vivo was confirmed for the first time with our method. The LC-ESI-MS/MS method was able to determine protein-bound NO(2)Trp in a small amount of tissue sample, and is therefore applicable not only as a biomarker of RNS, but also as a mean to clarify novel mechanisms underlying RNS-related tissue damage.
A defined O-antigen polysaccharide mutant of Francisella tularensis live vaccine strain has attenuated virulence while retaining its protective capacity.	Francisella tularensis, the causative agent of tularemia, has been designated a CDC category A select agent because of its low infective dose (<10 CFU), its ready transmission by aerosol, and its ability to produce severe morbidity and high mortality. The identification and characterization of this organism's virulence determinants will facilitate the development of a safe and effective vaccine. We report that inactivation of the wbtA-encoded dehydratase of the O-antigen polysaccharide (O-PS) locus of the still-unlicensed live vaccine strain of F. tularensis (LVS) results in a mutant (the LVS wbtA mutant) with remarkably attenuated virulence. Western blot analysis and immune electron microscopy studies associate this loss of virulence with a complete lack of surface O-PS expression. A likely mechanism for attenuation is shown to be the transformation from serum resistance in the wild-type strain to serum sensitivity in the mutant. Despite this significant attenuation in virulence, the LVS wbtA mutant remains immunogenic and confers protective immunity on mice against challenge with an otherwise lethal dose of either F. tularensis LVS or a fully virulent clinical isolate of F. tularensis type B. Recognition and characterization of the pivotal role of O-PS in the virulence of this intracellular bacterial pathogen may have broad implications for the creation of a safe and efficacious vaccine.
Glycoprotein G deficient infectious laryngotracheitis virus is a candidate attenuated vaccine.	Infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV), an alphaherpesvirus, causes respiratory disease in chickens and is currently controlled by vaccination with conventionally attenuated virus strains. These vaccines have limitations because of residual pathogenicity and reversion to virulence, suggesting that a novel vaccine strain that lacks virulence gene(s) may enhance disease control. Glycoprotein G (gG) has recently been identified as a virulence factor in ILTV. In this study the immunogenicity and relative pathogenicity of gG deficient ILTV was investigated in SPF chickens. Birds vaccinated with gG deficient ILTV were protected against clinical signs of disease following challenge with virulent ILTV and gG deficient ILTV was also shown to be less pathogenic than currently available commercial vaccine strains. Thus gG deficient ILTV appears to have potential as a vaccine candidate.
Alloreactive T cells respond specifically to multiple distinct peptide-MHC complexes.	The molecular basis underlying the specificity of alloreactive T cells for peptide-major histocompatibility complex ligands has been elusive. Here we describe a screen of 60 I-E(k)-alloreactive T cells and 83 naturally processed peptides that identified 9 reactive T cells. Three of the T cells responded to multiple, distinct peptides that shared no sequence homology. These T cells recognized each peptide-major histocompatibility complex ligand specifically and used a distinct constellation of I-E(k) contact residues for each interaction. Our studies show that alloreactive T cells have a 'germline-encoded' capacity to recognize multiple, distinct ligands and thus show 'polyspecificity', not degeneracy. Our findings help to explain the high frequency of alloreactive T cells and provide insight into the nature of T cell specificity.
Oxidants in the gas phase of cigarette smoke pass through the lung alveolar wall and raise systemic oxidative stress.	Cigarette smoking-induced oxidative stress plays a key role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in smokers. Aqueous cigarette smoke extract (CSE) contains stable oxidants, peroxynitrite-like reactants, which have the ability to oxidize and nitrate low-density lipoprotein (LDL). We examined whether oxidants in CSE can penetrate into the blood through the lung alveolar wall and cause oxidative vascular injury. The oxidants in CSE and sodium peroxynitrite could easily pass through the reconstituted basement membrane. When CSE or sodium peroxynitrite solution was infused into the alveolar air space of an isolated rat lung mounted in tyrosine solution, CSE gradually increased the 3-nitrotyrosine levels in the external tyrosine solution while sodium peroxynitrite caused a rapid increase. CSE did not activate the rat alveolar macrophages. When rats were acutely exposed to the gas phase of cigarette smoke from which tar and nicotine had been removed, both serum levels of 3-nitrotyrosine and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanine, oxidative stress markers, rapidly increased. Our results demonstrate that relatively stable oxidants in CSE can pass through the pulmonary alveolar wall into the blood and induce systemic oxidative stress, which most likely facilitates oxidative modification of LDL and endothelial dysfunction, explaining early key events in the development of atherosclerosis.
Plasmodium yoelii: experimental evidences for the conserved epitopes between mouse and human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum.	Bioinformatic analyses of gene homologues have revealed functionally conserved epitopes between human and rodent malaria parasites. Here, we present experimental evidence for the presence of functionally and antigenically conserved domains between Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium yoelii asexual blood-stages. Merozoite released soluble proteins (MRSPs) from both P. falciparum and P. yoelii bound to heterologous mouse or human red blood cells, respectively. The presence of conserved antigenic epitopes between the two species of parasites was evident by the inhibitory effect of antibodies, developed against P. yoelii in convalescent mice, on P. falciparum growth and merozoite reinvasion in vitro. Furthermore, mice immunized with P. falciparum MRSPs were protected from infection by a P. yoelii challenge. These data indicate that different species of Plasmodium contain antigenically conserved interspecies domains, which are immunogenic and, thus constitute a potential novel antigen source for vaccine development and testing using a mouse model.
Comparison of a new gold-immunochromatographic assay for the detection of antibodies against avian influenza virus with hemagglutination inhibition and agar gel immunodiffusion assays.	A gold-immunochromatographic test-strip kit is used for the detection of IgG antibodies against the nucleocapsid protein of Avian Influenza Virus (AIV). Compared with the "gold standard", i.e. hemagglutination inhibition (HI) and agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) assays, the gold-immunochromatographic test strip has many advantages, such as high specificity, high sensitivity, convenience, is rapid and has low cost. The gold-immunochromatographic test strip provides a unique tool for the on-site surveillance and diagnosis of Avian Influenza.
Replication of infectious bursal disease virus in macrophages and altered tropism of progeny virus.	We serially passaged classical infectious bursal disease virus (cIBDV) and antigenic variant IBDV (vIBDV) in an avian macrophage cell line, NCSU cells, referred as mcIBDV and mvIBDV respectively and examined the in vitro and in vivo characteristics of the macrophage-adapted viruses. NCSU adapted viruses caused earlier destruction of NCSU cells than the unadapted viruses. Nitric oxide (NO) was detected earlier in cultures infected with mcIBDV and mvIBDV than in cultures infected with cIBDV and vIBDV. cIBDV and vIBDV were able to infect DF-1 cells, a chicken embryo fibroblast cell line, only after one replication cycle in NCSU cells. The genetic basis of altered tropism of progeny virus from NCSU cells infected cultures was not identified. No aa substitutions were observed in hypervariable region of VP2 of cIBDV and vIBDV passaged 1 time in NCSU cells whereas both mcIBDV and mvIBDV had multiple aa substitutions. To assess protective efficacy of mcIBDV and mvIBDV, embryonated chicken eggs were inoculated with mcIBDV and mvIBDV at embryonation day 18 (ED 18) and challenged with a virulent cIBDV at 3 weeks of age. mcIBDV and mvIBDV were immunogenic and generated antibody responses and provided 100% protection against cIBDV.
Inhibition of skeletal metastasis by ectopic ERalpha expression in ERalpha-negative human breast cancer cell lines.	Some hormone-independent breast cancers lack functional estrogen receptors (ERs) and show evidence of a more aggressive metastatic phenotype. A protective role of the ER has also been suggested in hormone-resistant breast cancer progression. In this study, we have investigated the effect of the ectopic expression of human ERalpha on the bone-metastatic potential of highly metastatic ERalpha-negative human breast cancer MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-435-F-L cell lines in an experimental model of bone metastasis in nude mice. ERalpha overexpression had no effect on the growth of both cell lines but reduced the expression of integrin alpha(v)beta(3) and the receptor activator of NF-kappaB, which are known to promote bone metastasis. A significant reduction in the incidence of osteolytic bone metastasis was observed by X-ray imaging of the legs and arms of mice inoculated with ERalpha-expressing clones of MDA-MB-231 cells in comparison to controls. Ectopic expression of ERalpha in MDA-MB-435-F-L cells also reduced their widespread skeletal metastasis to the legs, arms, spine, and mandible, as detected by whole-mouse enhanced green fluorescent protein imaging. Our study indicates for the first time that stable reintroduction of functional ERalpha in ERalpha-negative human breast cancer cells can inhibit their aggressive bone-metastatic potential in an experimental bone metastasis model.
Role of scratch-induced cutaneous prostaglandin D production on atopic-like scratching behaviour in mice.	NC/Nga mice are known to develop scratching dermatitis akin to atopic dermatitis, under conventional (Conv), but not under the specific-pathogen-free (SPF) condition. In this study, we examined the effects of mechanical-scratching on the spontaneous scratching counts (sign of itching), in relation to the cutaneous prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) levels in NC/Nga or BALB/c mice. Mechanical-scratching increased the cutaneous barrier damage and PGD2 levels in both strain mice under the SPF condition. By 4 weeks of cohabitation with the skin-lesioned NC/Nga mice, both the increase in the spontaneous scratching and development of dermatitis score were higher in the Conv-NC/Nga than in the Conv-BALB/c mice. At this time-point, the cutaneous PGD2 level induced by mechanical-scratching was significantly lower in the Conv-NC/Nga when compared with that in the SPF-NC/Nga mice, and that in the Conv-BALB/c was almost equal to that in the SPF-BALB/c mice. With mechanical scratches, the cohabitation-induced scratching was suppressed in the Conv-BALB/c, but not in the Conv-NC/Nga mice. These results suggest that the scratch-induced cutaneous PGD2 inhibits scratching and the subsequent development of dermatitis in BALB/c, while the impaired scratch-induced cutaneous PGD2 production in the NC/Nga mice resulted in no suppression of scratching, and aggravated the dermatitis.
Genotoxicity assessment of HM10620 containing recombinant human interferon-alpha.	HM10620 is a recombinant human interferon-alpha (rhIFN-alpha) linked to immunoglobulin via N-terminal-specific non-peptidyl polyethylene glycol linker to improve the in vivo stability of interferon. Potential genotoxic effects of HM10620 in three short-term mutagenicity assays were investigated, which included the Ames assay, in vitro chromosomal aberration assay, and the in vivo micronucleus assay. HM10620 did not cause any mutation in the Ames assay tested using five tester strains at six concentrations of 6.25, 12.5, 25, 50, 100, and 200 microg/plate. To assess clastogenic effect, the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay and the in vivo micronucleus assay were performed using Chinese hamster lung cells and male ICR mice, respectively. Chromosomal aberration was not induced at the concentrations of 10, 20, and 40 microg/mL. Also, there was no difference in the incidence of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes at doses of 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg in male mice compared with the vehicle control group. Therefore, based on the results obtained from the three studies, it is concluded that HM10620 is not a mutagenic agent in bacterial cells and causes no chromosomal damage in mammalian cells both in vitro and in vivo.
Control of cytokine gene expression using small RNA interference: blockade of interleukin-10 and interferon-gamma gene expression in pig cells.	The ability of small RNA interference (RNAi) to reduce specific gene expression was tested using interleukin-10 (IL-10) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production by cultured swine blood mononuclear cells stimulated by Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide or concanavalin A. Antisense (AS) phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) corresponding to a sequence in the region of the AUG initiation codon of swine IL-10 or IFN-gamma mRNA inhibited production of IL-10 (>or=93.5%) and IFN-gamma (>or=99%) mRNAs. Interleukin-10 and IFN-gamma protein production was inhibited more than 95% by the AS ODNs. Scrambled and sense ODNs RNAi used as negative controls did not alter mRNA expression for either cytokine but slightly reduced IL-10 protein production. Cytokine-specific and control RNAi did not inhibit beta(2)-microglobulin mRNA expression in mitogen-stimulated blood mononuclear cells. Thus AS ODNs RNAi specifically inhibit expression of pig IL-10 and IFN-gamma mRNAs by cultured, mitogen-stimulated blood mononuclear cells and may be an attractive alternative method for studying cytokine function.
Simultaneous determination of homoeriodictyol-7-O-beta-D-Glccopyranoside and its metabolite homoeriodictyol in rat tissues and urine by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.	A liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric (LC-MS) method was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of homoeriodictyol-7-O-beta-D-glycoside (HEDT-Glc) and its active metabolite homoeriodictyol (HEDT) in rat tissues and urine. The analytes and internal standard (dihydromyricetin, IS) were detected by using negative atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry in selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode at m/z 464, 301 and 319 for HEDT-Glc, HEDT and IS, respectively. These compounds were eluted on a Luna reverse phase column. The mobile phase was a methanol-water mixture (70:30, v/v) containing 0.1% of formic acid at a flow rate of 0.8 ml/min. The limit of quantification (LOQ) for both HEDT-Glc and HEDT was 10 ng/ml and their limit of detection (LOD) was 1 ng/ml. Calibration curves were linear (r>0.995) over a wide range of the analytes in tissues and urine. The mean extraction recoveries were >or=75.6% for HEDT-Glc and >or=82.4% for HEDT from biological matrixes. Accuracy, expressed as the relative error, ranged from -4.0% to 3.8% for HEDT-Glc and from -2.8% to 4.7% for HEDT. The method was successfully applied to the estimation of HEDT-Glc and its metabolite HEDT in rat tissues and urine.
Long-term colonisation-inhibition studies to protect broilers against colonisation with Salmonella Enteritidis, using Salmonella Pathogenicity Island 1 and 2 mutants.	Mutants in the Salmonella Pathogenicity Island 1 (hilA and sipA) and 2 (ssrA) were tested for their potential to induce protection against infection by homologous virulent Salmonella Enteritidis challenge strain, administered 24h later, in chickens. Although they colonised the internal organs to a significantly lower degree compared to the wild type strain, both a sipA and a ssrA mutant persistently colonised the gut when inoculated to newly hatched chicks. After inoculation of 1-day-old chicks with a sipA or a ssrA mutant and subsequent challenge with a wild type Salmonella Enteritidis 24h later, a significant degree of resistance against caecal and internal organ colonisation by the challenge strain was found. The protection lasted for the full 6 weeks of study, but due to their persistence, the sipA and ssrA mutants are not useful to induce broiler protection. After inoculation of newly hatched chicks with a hilA mutant no positive cloacal swabs could be detected anymore at 4 weeks post-inoculation and the hilA mutant was almost completely cleared from the gut. When newly hatched chicks were inoculated with a hilA mutant and challenged 24h later, the excretion of the virulent challenge strain was significantly reduced and the intestinal colonisation of the challenge strain was inhibited to a high level until the age of 9 days. Moreover, the hilA mutant exerted a significant profound inhibition of internal organ colonisation by the virulent challenge strain throughout the study period. The approach of vaccination with a hilA mutant strain can be a valuable basis for development of vaccine strains for broilers protection.
Combined DNA vaccination against three animal viruses elicits decreased immunogenicity of a single plasmid in mice.	In order to investigate whether combined DNA vaccines are an ideal way to combine antigens in a single vaccine formulation, we immunized mice with three plasmids (pVSG, pVgD and pVE2), respectively, encoding the antigen of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), pseudorabies virus (PRV) and classic swine fever virus (CSFV), either alone or in a combined vaccine regimen. We also investigated the immune responses induced by a series of mixtures in which three plasmids were mixed in pairs. Then we further immunized mice with three different plasmids in separate sites and preformed an adoptive transfer experiment. While being given alone, each of the vaccine plasmids induced significant virus-specific antibody responses and splenocytes proliferative activity. But reduced immunogenicity of the pVSG plasmid was found in combined DNA vaccination, no matter whether it was injected in a single or a separate site. Removal single plasmid (pVgD or pVE2) from combined DNA vaccine led to significant increase in the immunogenicity of the pVSG plasmid (P<0.05). And the induction of immune suppression was not mediated by suppressor T cells, as demonstrated by an adoptive transfer experiment. Furthermore, by boosting with whole virus protein of FMDV, mice primed with either pVSG alone or combined DNA vaccine produced statistically significant increase in the FMDV-specific antibody titers (P<0.05). But after boosting, FMDV-specific splenocytes proliferative activity of mice primed with combined DNA vaccine was even lower than that of mice primed with pVSG alone (P<0.05). Taken together, this study reflected the immunogenicity of a single plasmid may be decreased in combined DNA immunization strategy, which still needs to be carefully evaluated before practical application.
Pathogenesis of a Thai strain of white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) in juvenile, specific pathogen-free Litopenaeus vannamei.	White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) causes disease and mortality in cultured and wild shrimp. A standardized WSSV oral inoculation procedure was used in specific pathogen-free (SPF) Litopenaeus vannamei (also called Penaeus vannamei) to determine the primary sites of replication (portal of entry), to analyze the viral spread and to propose the cause of death. Shrimp were inoculated orally with a low (10(1.5) shrimp infectious dose 50% endpoint [SID50]) or a high (10(4) SID50) dose. Per dose, 6 shrimp were collected at 0, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60 h post inoculation (hpi). WSSV-infected cells were located in tissues by immunohistochemistry and in hemolymph by indirect immunofluorescence. Cell-free hemolymph was examined for WSSV DNA using 1-step PCR. Tissues and cell-free hemolymph were first positive at 18 hpi (low dose) or at 12 hpi (high dose). With the 2 doses, primary replication was found in cells of the foregut and gills. The antennal gland was an additional primary replication site at the high dose. WSSV-infected cells were found in the hemolymph starting from 36 hpi. At 60 hpi, the percentage of WSSV-infected cells was 36 for the epithelial cells of the foregut and 27 for the epithelial cells of the integument; the number of WSSV-infected cells per mm2 was 98 for the gills, 26 for the antennal gland, 78 for the hematopoietic tissue and 49 for the lymphoid organ. Areas of necrosis were observed in infected tissues starting from 48 hpi (low dose) or 36 hpi (high dose). Since the foregut, gills, antennal gland and integument are essential for the maintenance of shrimp homeostasis, it is likely that WSSV infection leads to death due to their dysfunction.
PCR assay for discriminating between infectious hypodermal and hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHHNV) and virus-related sequences in the genome of Penaeus monodon.	We developed a PCR assay that can detect infectious hypodermal and hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHHNV) but that does not react with IHHNV-related sequences in the genome of Penaeus monodon from Africa and Australia. IHHNV is a single-stranded DNA virus that has caused severe mortality and stunted growth in penaeid shrimp. Recently, IHHNV-related sequences were found in the genome of some stocks of P. monodon from Africa and Australia. These virus-related sequences have a high degree of similarity (86 and 92% identities in nucleotide sequence) to the viral genome, which has often generated false-positive reactions during PCR screening of these stocks. For this assay, a pair of IHHNV primers (IHHNV309F/R) was selected. The sequences of these primers match (100% of nucleotides) the target sequence in IHHNV, but mismatch 9 or 12 nucleotides of the genomic IHHNV-related sequences. This PCR assay was tested with various IHHNV isolates and with a number of samples of shrimp DNA that contained IHHNV-related sequences. This assay can reliably distinguish IHHNV DNA from shrimp DNA: it only detects IHHNV. Also, this pair of primers was included in a duplex PCR to detect IHHNV and simultaneously determine the presence of an IHHNV-related sequence. Using these primers, the PCR assay has a sensitivity equivalent to a PCR assay commonly used for detecting IHHNV in Litopenaeus vannamei, and can be used for routine detection.
Molecular and supra-molecular structure related differences in toxicity and granulomatogenic activity of mycobacterial cord factor in mice.	To establish the structure biological activity relationship of cord factor (trehalose 6,6'-dimycolate, TDM), we compared the molecular or supra-molecular structure of TDM micelles with toxicity, thymic atrophy and granulomatogenicity in lungs and spleen of BALB/c mice. According to the difference in the mycolyl subclass composition, TDM was divided into two groups, one possessing alpha-, methoxy- and keto-mycolates in M. tuberculosis H37Rv, M. bovis BCG and M. kansasii (group A) and the other having alpha-, keto- and wax ester-mycolates in M. avium serotype 4, M. phlei and M. flavescens (group B), although mycolic acid molecular species composition differed in each group considerably. Supra-molecular structure of TDM micelle differed species to species substantially and the micelle size of TDM from M. bovis BCG Connaught was the largest. The highest toxicity was shown with TDM from M. tuberculosis H37Rv which possessed the highest amount of alpha- (47.3%) and methoxy-mycolates (40.8%), while TDM from M. phlei having the low amount of alpha-mycolate (11.6%) showed almost no toxicity with the given doses. The thymic atrophy was observed with TDM from group A, but not with TDM from group B. On the other hand, TDM from group B showed massive lung granulomatogenic activity based on the histological observations and organ indices. Taken together, group A TDM showed a wide variety of micelle sizes and specific surface areas, high to low toxicity and marked to moderate granulomatogenicity, while group B TDM showed smaller sizes of micelles and larger specific surface areas, lower toxicity but higher granulomatogenicity in lungs. Existence of higher amount of longer chain alpha-mycolates in TDM appeared to be essential for high toxicity and thymic apoptotic activity, whereas TDM possessing wax ester-mycolate with smaller sized micelles seemed to be less toxic, but more granulomatogenic in lungs in mice. Thus, the mycolic acid subclass and molecular species composition of TDM affect critically the micelle forms, toxicity and granulomatogenicity in mice, while the relative abundances and carbon chain length of alpha-mycolate affected the toxicity in mice.
A new gymnophallid trematode from the intestine of mice infected with metacercariae from the razor clam Sinonovacula constricta.	Meiogymnophallus sinonovaculae n. sp. (Digenea: Gymnophallidae) is described from metacercariae found in the razor clam, Sinonovacula constricta, in the Republic of Korea, and adults recovered from the small intestine of experimentally infected mice. The worms are characterized by paired clusters of vitelline follicles, a well-developed pars prostatica with abundant prostate cells, a voluminous undivided seminal vesicle (in adults and metacercariae), and large, grouped, domelike sensory papillae on the ventral surface anterior to the ventral sucker (in metacercariae). This new species resembles the type species Meiogymnophallus affinis, but differs in having compact, elliptical, and 4-5-lobed vitellaria, and an excretory vesicle with bicornuated anterior arms reaching to the oral sucker. This is the second documentation of the presence of a species of Meiogymnophallus in the Republic of Korea.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibition reduces atherosclerotic plaque size and promotes factors of plaque stability in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice: effects on macrophage recruitment, nuclear factor-kappaB nuclear translocation, and foam cell death.	Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) was suggested to play a role in endothelial dysfunction that is associated with a number of cardiovascular diseases. We hypothesized that PARP may play an important role in atherogenesis and that its inhibition may attenuate atherosclerotic plaque development in an experimental model of atherosclerosis.
ErbB-4 may control behavior of prostate cancer cells and serve as a target for molecular therapy.	To assess ErbB-4 expression in advanced human prostate cancer (PC) cell lines, the role of ErbB-4 in motility, migration, and proliferative/tumorigenic potential of PC cells, and efficacy of anti-ErbB-4 monoclonal antibody (Mab) treatment on PC cells in vitro and tumor growth in vivo.
Intermittent exposure to low-concentration paraphenylenediamine can be equivalent to single, higher-dose exposure.	Hair dye allergy is an important and increasingly common cause of allergic contact dermatitis. The role of repeated exposure in elicitation of allergy has not previously been extensively studied. We have therefore compared elicitation between single and intermittent exposure to paraphenylenediamine (PPD). 23 subjects known to be allergic to PPD from positive patch tests were exposed to 0.3% and 0.03% PPD, both in petrolatum and water, for 5 min at the same site every day for up to 8 D. In the same subjects, single exposures were also performed at different sites, from 5 to 40 min. Other experiments exposed rat skin to radiolabelled PPD as one-off application or multiple exposures. There were 8 reactions in the cumulative exposure site using 0.3% PPD in aqueous solution. In 7 of these, there was an exact correlation with reaction to the cumulative time needed for repeat exposures to elicit a reaction and the time needed for a reaction to the single exposure. There were no reactions to 0.03% PPD in water or pet under either type of exposure condition. There was also a positive correlation between grade of original reaction in clinic (+++, ++, +) and appearance/intensity of elicitation reactions. In the animal study, cumulative time and single exposure time sites correlated with regards to retention of radiolabelled substance within the skin. This study therefore demonstrates for the first time that, over the time period tested, the allergenic component of PPD accumulates in the skin. Hence, intermittent exposure to lower concentrations of PPD may be equivalent to higher concentration, one-off exposure.
Influence of the mode of ventilation on ketamine/xylazine requirements in rabbits.	To evaluate the effect of the mode of mechanical ventilation (MV) on the dose of intravenous anesthetic during 3 hours of ketamine/xylazine anesthesia.
Protective immunity conferred by recombinant Pasteurella multocida lipoprotein E (PlpE).	The genes encoding Pasteurella multocida lipoprotein E (PlpE) and lipoprotein B (PlpB) were cloned from P. multocida strain X-73 (serotype A:1) and expressed in Escherichia coli. The protective immunity conferred by recombinant PlpE (r-PlpE) and PlpB (r-PlpB) on mice and chickens was evaluated. The results showed that mice immunized with 10microg of purified r-PlpE were protected (80-100% survival rate) against challenge infection with 10 or 20 LD(50) of P. multocida strains X-73 (serotype A:1), P-1059 (serotype A:3) and P-1662 (serotype A:4). In contrast, mice immunized with r-PlpB were not protected. Chickens immunized with 100microg of purified r-PlpE were protected (63-100% survival rate) against lethal challenge infection with strains X-73 and P-1662, whereas those immunized with r-PlpB were not. Sequence analyses showed that PlpE from different strains of P. multocida exhibited 90.8-100% sequence identity to each other, suggesting that PlpE might serve as a cross-protective antigen. This is the first report of a recombinant P. multocida antigen that confers cross protection on animals.
Refinement of intrathymic injection in mice.	Direct intrathymic injection is a common procedure used in several types of experimental protocols in the mouse. Currently available approaches involve major surgical procedures that expose the thoracic cavity, resulting in an increased risk of poor recovery and postsurgical complications. The authors sought to refine this surgery to reduce animal pain and distress without compromising overall efficiency of the technique. Using a minimally invasive method that does not expose the thoracic cavity, the authors gave accurately placed intrathymic injections, as confirmed by analyses with a reporter dye. They describe this new approach for intrathymic injection in mice that reduces complications associated with lengthy periods of anesthesia and thoracic cavity exposure.
ST2 gene induced by type 2 helper T cell (Th2) and proinflammatory cytokine stimuli may modulate lung injury and fibrosis.	The authors have investigated gene expression of ST2 in the lung tissue of a bleomycin (BLM)-induced lung fibrosis model in vivo and in a human lung fibroblast cell line, WI38, and a human type II alveolar epithelial cell line, A549, reacting to proinflammatory and type 2 helper T cell (Th2)-type cytokine stimuli in vitro. The lung mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, IL-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha increased significantly at day 7 after instillation of BLM, whereas interferon (IFN)-gamma mRNA expression did not increase. ST2 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 mRNA expression of the lung increased significantly between days 7 and 21, and increased to maximal levels at day 14 post-BLM challenge. ST2 mRNA expression statistically correlated with TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression. In addition, the combination of IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-4 had an additive effect on ST2 mRNA expression from A549 cells and WI38 cells. These findings suggest that soluble ST2 gene may increase, possibly reflecting the development of the inflammatory process and the Th2-type immune response in the fibrotic lung tissue, and may modulate a process of pulmonary fibrosis.
Detection of infectious bursal disease virus from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue by immunohistochemistry and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.	Formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissues blocks are used routinely to diagnose the economically important immunosuppressive infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) in chickens. Immunohistochemical detection of viruses in tissue blocks has been done with varying results between laboratories. Extraction of IBDV RNA from tissue blocks allows IBDV strain identification at a molecular level. This allows correlation between virus identity and histological lesions present in the tissue. Experimentally reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) detectable IBDV RNA could always be extracted from tissue blocks with acute +3 or higher histological lesion scores. However, many blocks from diagnostic field cases did not yield detectable IBDV RNA, in spite of having severe IBDV histological lesion scores. The reason for this can be the effect different formalin fixation conditions have on RNA detection from tissue blocks. To study the effect of various fixation parameters on RNA extraction and immunohistochemical detection of IBDV, bursas with maximum histological lesion score of 4 for IBDV were fixed in formalin under various conditions (different pH levels, temperatures, concentrations of formalin, and fixation duration). Only tissues fixed in formalin with a pH of 7.0, concentration of 5 or 10% formaldehyde, storage temperature of 25 degrees C or less, and kept for up to 2 weeks in formalin yielded detectable IBDV RNA upon extraction. No RNA could be detected from tissues fixed under extreme temperature, pH, or formalin concentrations. Optimal fixation conditions for IHC detection of IBDV were 10% formalin concentration, pH 7.0, and temperature of 4 degrees C, where maximum intensity of immunostaining was observed.
An indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of antibodies to Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 in pig serum.	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) antigen was purified from Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 by phenol-water extraction and fractionated on a, S-100 Sephacryl column. High molecular weight fractions of LPS purified from the S-100 column were pooled and used as antigen in an indirect serovar 7 ELISA. The ELISA was evaluated with sera from pigs experimentally infected with 11 different A. pleuropneumoniae serovars of biotype 1. Estimation of sensitivity and specificity of the A. pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 ELISA was performed using pig sera from herds naturally infected with A. pleuropneumoniae serovar 7 as well as sera from herds free of infection with A. pleuropneumoniae serovar 7. When compared to the complement fixation test (CFT) as a reference test, the ELISA showed much higher sensitivity and statistically equivalent specificity.
Detection of mixed infections with "Candidatus Mycoplasma haemominutum" and Mycoplasma haemofelis using real-time TaqMan polymerase chain reaction.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the use of real-time TaqMan PCR assays for detection of coinfections with "Candidatus Mycoplasma haemominutum" (Mhm), and Mycoplasma haemofelis (Mhf), in vitro and over time in experimentally infected cats. First, the ability of each real-time PCR assay to detect and quantify mixed infections was determined in vitro by testing mixtures of plasmids containing Mhm and Mhf 16S rDNA with each assay. Subsequently, 4 specific pathogen-free (SPF) cats, 2 of which were splenectomized, were inoculated with blood from a cat infected with both Mhm and Mhf. Sixteen blood samples were then collected from each cat over a 55-day period. Each of the 64 postinoculation samples was tested using both conventional polymerase chain reaction (cPCR) and real-time PCR for the 16S rRNA gene of each organism. When applied to mixtures of plasmid DNA from each species, the results of quantitation with each of the real-time PCR assays approximately reflected the number of plasmid copies present. Forty-nine of 64 post-inoculation samples (77%) were positive using both cPCR and real-time PCR, 4 (6%) were positive using cPCR only, and 3 (5%) were positive using real-time PCR only. Both organisms were detected in 23 samples using real-time PCR. Mixed infections were not detected using cPCR. The size of the corresponding cPCR products suggested infection with Mhm in 4 and Mhf in 18 of these samples. The use of multiple separate real-time PCR assays rather than cPCR alone should thus be considered for epidemiologic studies of hemoplasmosis in cats.
Minimally activated CD8 autoreactive T cells specific for IRBP express a high level of Foxp3 and are functionally suppressive.	Results in previous reports have demonstrated that immunization of the EAU-prone B6 mouse activates both CD4 and CD8 IRBP-specific T cells. The purpose of this study was to investigate structural and functional differences between CD4 and CD8 autoreactive T cells activated by the uveitogenic peptide.
Upregulation of galectin-3 by Corynebacterium kutscheri infection in the rat lung.	Corynebacterium (C) kutscheri and Staphylococcus aureus were isolated from two Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with a hemisected spinal cord. Grossly, gray-white bulging foci and abscesses were distributed throughout the parenchyma of the lung. Pathologically, severe necrotizing lobar pneumonia with abscesses and fibrinous pleuritis were observed. Immunohistochemical analysis found accumulation of galectin-3 in alveolar macrophages and the alveolar interstitial region. No other viral or bacterial pathogens were detected in these animals. In addition, similar pathogenic changes and accumulation of galectin-3 were observed in the lungs of SD rats experimentally infected with C. kutscheri. Using northern blot analysis, the relative galectin-3 and GAPDH mRNA levels were 4.6 to 9.3 times higher in C. kutscheri-infected lung than in uninfected controls. These results demonstrate that a single C. kutscheri infection can induce the upregulation of galectin-3 in the lung and that this molecule may have an important pathogenic role in C. kutscheri infections in rats.
Phenotypes of IRS-2 deficient mice produced by reproductive technology are stable.	We studied the impact of "IVF - ET" on the glucose tolerance test (GTT), insulin tolerance test (ITT) and adiponectin to investigate differences in the phenotypes of B6J- Irs2(-/-) mice. The B6J-Irs2(-/-) mice (KO-Nat group) were prepared by natural mating. Other mice were produced by IVF-ET used ICR strain recipients and surrogate mothers (KO-IVF group). Measurement of body weight, GTT, ITT and blood sampling were performed at the ages of 6, 14 and 24 weeks after birth. Body weights, impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance and plasma adiponectin concentrations did not differ for each gender between the KO-IVF and KO-Nat groups. Therefore, we concluded that phenotypes of Irs2(-/-) mice produced by reproductive technology are stable.
Bilateral effects of vaccination against infectious bursal disease and Newcastle disease in specific-pathogen-free layers and commercial broiler chickens.	Different infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) live vaccines (intermediate, intermediate plus) were compared for their immunosuppressive abilities in specific-pathogen-free (SPF) layer-type chickens or commercial broilers. The Newcastle disease virus (NDV) vaccination model was applied to determine not only IBDV-induced immunosuppression but also bilateral effects between IBDV and NDV. None of the IBDV vaccines abrogated NDV vaccine-induced protection. All NDV-vaccinated SPF layers and broilers were protected against NDV challenge independent of circulating NDV antibody levels. Sustained suppression of NDV antibody development was observed in SPF layers, which had received the intermediate plus IBDV vaccine. We observed a temporary suppression of NDV antibody development in broilers vaccinated with one of the intermediate, as well as the intermediate plus, IBDV vaccines. Different genetic backgrounds, ages, and residual maternal antibodies might have influenced the pathogenesis of IBDV in the different types of chickens. Temporary suppression of NDV antibody response in broilers was only seen if the NDV vaccine was administered before and not, as it was speculated previously, at the time the peak of IBDV-induced bursa lesions was detected. For the first time, we have demonstrated that the NDV vaccine had an interfering effect with the pathogenesis of the intermediate as well as the intermediate plus IBDV vaccine. NDV vaccination enhanced the incidence of IBDV bursa lesions and IBDV antibody development. This observation indicates that this bilateral effect of an IBDV and NDV vaccination should be considered in the field and could have consequences for the performance of broiler flocks.
Colonization of specific regions of the reproductive tract and deposition at different locations inside eggs laid by hens infected with Salmonella enteritidis or Salmonella heidelberg.	Internal contamination of eggs by Salmonella Enteritidis has been a significant source of human illness for several decades and is the focus of a recently proposed U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulatory plan. Salmonella Heidelberg has also been identified as an egg-transmitted human pathogen. The deposition of Salmonella strains inside eggs is apparently a consequence of reproductive tissue colonization in infected laying hens, but the relationship between colonization of specific regions of the reproductive tract and deposition in different locations within eggs is not well documented. In the present study, groups of laying hens were experimentally infected with large oral doses of Salmonella Heidelberg, Salmonella Enteritidis phage type 13a, or Salmonella Enteritidis phage type 14b. For all of these isolates, the overall frequency of ovarian colonization (34.0%) was significantly higher than the frequency of recovery from either the upper (22.9%) or lower (18.1%) regions of the oviduct. No significant differences were observed between the frequencies of Salmonella isolation from egg yolk and albumen (4.0% and 3.3%, respectively). Some significant differences between Salmonella isolates were observed in the frequency of recovery from eggs, but not in the frequency or patterns of recovery from reproductive organs. Accordingly, although the ability of these Salmonella isolates to colonize different regions of the reproductive tract in laying hens was reflected in deposition in both yolk and albumen, there was no indication that any specific affinity of individual isolates for particular regions of this tract produced distinctive patterns of deposition in eggs.
Experimental reproduction of transmissible viral proventriculitis by infection of chickens with a novel adenovirus-like virus (isolate R11/3).	Transmissible viral proventriculitis (TVP) was experimentally reproduced in 2-wk-old specific-pathogen-free chickens and commercial broiler chickens by eyedrop inoculation of adenovirus-like virus (AdLV), isolate R1 1/3. No clinical signs and no weight gain depression were observed in chickens inoculated with AdLV (R11/3); however, gross and microscopic lesions characteristic of TVP were present in proventriculi of inoculated chickens. Proventriculi of AdLV (R11/3)-inoculated chickens were markedly enlarged, compared with sham-inoculated controls, by day 7 postinoculation (PI). Microscopic lesions in proventriculi of inoculated chickens were detected beginning on day 3 PI and consisted of degeneration and necrosis of glandular epithelium, ductal epithelial hyperplasia, replacement of glandular epithelium with ductal epithelium, and diffuse interstitial lymphoid infiltration; no microscopic lesions were observed in other tissues. AdLV (R11/3) antigens were detected in proventriculi by immunohistochemistry on days 3-10 PI in inoculated SPF chickens and days 3-21 PI in inoculated commercial broiler chickens; no viral antigens were detected in other tissues. AdLV (R11/3) was reisolated from proventriculi of inoculated SPF and commercial broiler chickens on days 5 and 7 PI. No virus, viral antigens, or lesions were detected in proventriculi collected from sham-inoculated chickens. These findings indicate an etiologic role for AdLV (R11/3) in TVP.
Identification and expression of a gene encoding an epitope that induces hemagglutination inhibition antibody to Avibacterium paragallinarum serovar A.	The aims of this study were the identification, cloning, and expression of a genetic region encoding an epitope that induces hemagglutination inhibition (HI) antibody against Avibacterium paragallinarum serovar A and an evaluation of the recombinant protein for immunogenicity in chickens. Although two monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) with HI activity, designated S24-951 and S7-1716-5C, were generated in this study, no reactive proteins with both MAbs were identified by Western blot analysis. A gene fragment of 5157 bp, designated hpa5. 1, was cloned from genomic DNA, and a recombinant protein expressed by hpa5.1, designated HPA5.1, reacted with both MAbs on dot-blot analysis. HPA5.1 showed no hemagglutinating activity, but significantly absorbed HI antibodies in the chicken immune serum. Analysis using a series of deletion mutants prepared from hpa5.1 indicated that a 4.8 kbp gene in hpa5.1 is essential for the expression epitope recognized by MAb S24-951. In addition, chickens immunized once with HPA5.1 showed a high protection rate with sufficient HI antibody titers against challenge exposure with a virulent strain of A. paragallinarum serovar A strain 221. These results show that hpa5. I1 is responsible for the expression of an epitope that induces HI antibody, and HPA5.1 might be a candidate for the development of a new vaccine against avian infectious coryza caused by A. paragallinarum serovar A.
FTA liver impressions as DNA template for detecting and genotyping fowl adenovirus.	The feasibility of using liver impressions on Flinders Technology Associates (FTA filter paper for the collection, inactivation, and molecular analysis of fowl adenovirus (FAV) was evaluated. FAV I European Union (EU) serotype 1 spotted on FTA was shown to be inactivated using specific-pathogen-free (SPF) primary chicken embryo liver cell culture as indicated by absence of cytopathic effect. Sensitivity of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test using tenfold dilutions of allantoic fluid from 100 to 10-4 for the detection of adenovirus serotype 1 on FTA cards was determined to be 0.0005 mean tissue culture infectious dose per FTA spot. The stability of the DNA from liver impressions on the FTA was found to be 198 days when stored at -20 degrees C. In a trial, inclusion body hepatitis (IBH) was experimentally reproduced in SPF chickens inoculated with FAV I EU serogroup 1, 4, 8, or 11, which presented weakness, pallor, depression, dehydration, and mortality within 6 days after inoculation. PCR performed on FTA liver impressions from the inoculated birds was able to detect all four viruses, and the nucleotide sequence analysis of the amplified PCR products (1219 bp of the hexone gene) revealed the expected serotypes. In addition to the trial, 55 clinical samples were analyzed from liver impressions on FTA cards, and FAV was detected in 11 of 55 (20%). Sequencing analysis showed that the viruses were EU serotypes 4, 5, 9, and 10. The results demonstrate that FTA filter paper inactivates the FAV I and maintains the DNA template for molecular analysis.
Impact of different husbandry conditions on contact and airborne transmission of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus to chickens.	Typically highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses spread very rapidly among chickens within sheds. However, the spread was slower than expected for the initial 10 days of the index farm in Japan during 2004. This slow spread, as well as the lack of gross lesions, clinical signs, or high mortality, hindered the field veterinarian from reporting a suspected HPAI outbreak to the veterinary office. To understand the field conditions for the slow virus spread, we examined contact and airborne transmission of the H5N1 virus to chickens in a negative-pressure isolator using various numbers of infected chickens and separate compartments. We found that the contact transmission did occur inefficiently when one or two chickens were infected, whereas the transmission was efficient when four chickens were infected. Airborne transmission of the HPAI virus was also dependent on the number of infected chickens and was less efficient than contact transmission. These data together with field observations suggested that number of infected chickens, chicken house types, and amount of environmental contamination might affect the virus transmission efficiency to chickens.
Glutathione decreased parenteral nutrition-induced hepatocyte injury in infant rabbits.	This study was designed to explore the mechanisms in parenteral nutrition (PN)-associated hepatic dysfunction, and the possible effectiveness of glutathione (GSH) to alleviate this injury.
The interchain disulfide linkage is not a prerequisite but enhances CD28 costimulatory function.	Oligomeric state makes important contributions to the signaling mechanisms of costimulatory molecules. In this study we address the biological relevance of the disulfide-linked dimeric structure of CD28. Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) demonstrates that removal of the interdomain disulfide bond (C123) does not interfere with the formation of CD28 oligomers on the cell surface. Although the C123S mutant shows 40% lower binding affinity to the ligand B7-1, it is able to costimulate anti-CD3-induced IL-2 production but at a lower level (150%) compared to the wild-type (270%). Interestingly, binding to B7-2 was not affected. Thus, the covalently linked dimeric structure of CD28 represents an important mechanistic determinant for the optimal costimulatory activity in the immunological synapse.
Recombinant modified vaccinia virus Ankara-based vaccine induces protective immunity in mice against infection with influenza virus H5N1.	Since 2003, the number of human cases of infections with highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses of the H5N1 subtype is still increasing, and, therefore, the development of safe and effective vaccines is considered a priority. However, the global production capacity of conventional vaccines is limited and insufficient for a worldwide vaccination campaign. In the present study, an alternative H5N1 vaccine candidate based on the replication-deficient modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) was evaluated. C57BL/6J mice were immunized twice with MVA expressing the hemagglutinin (HA) gene from influenza virus A/Hongkong/156/97 (MVA-HA-HK/97) or A/Vietnam/1194/04 (MVA-HA-VN/04). Subsequently, recombinant MVA-induced protective immunity was assessed after challenge infection with 3 antigenically distinct strains of H5N1 influenza viruses: A/Hongkong/156/97, A/Vietnam/1194/04, and A/Indonesia/5/05. Our data suggest that recombinant MVA expressing the HA of influenza virus A/Vietnam/1194/04 is a promising alternative vaccine candidate that could be used for the induction of protective immunity against various H5N1 influenza strains.
Route of challenge is critical in determining the clinical outcome of infection with a very virulent oncogenic herpesvirus, Marek's disease virus.	The majority of experimental studies examining Marek's disease virus infection have used parenteral injection of cell-associated virus. The aim of this study was to examine whether the route of entry of virus was critical in determining the outcome of infection. Susceptible (L7) and resistant (L6) White Leghorn chickens were infected with a very virulent Marek's disease virus, RB1B, by either the intra-abdominal or intra-tracheal route. Birds infected by the intra-tracheal route had earlier, higher or more sustained blood, spleen and lung viral concentrations than those infected by the intra-abdominal route. L7 birds had higher viral loads than L6 birds infected by the same route. Clinical outcomes reflected these data. Resistant birds infected by the intra-tracheal route had an increased prevalence of tumours and shorter survival times compared with those infected by the intra-abdominal route. Susceptible birds infected by the intra-tracheal route became paralysed 10 days after infection. L7 birds had shorter survival times and increased prevalences of tumours than L6 birds. The pathology and viraemia seen with intra-tracheal infection could not be fully replicated by increasing the dose in intra-abdominal infections. We conclude that instillation of infective dust produces a more aggressive infection that depends on the route of entry and form of virus, and not just on the challenge dose.
Studies on the pathogenicity of enterovirus-like viruses in chickens.	FP3 and 612 viruses are enterovirus-like viruses. Antibody to these viruses is widespread in chicken flocks, but nothing is known about their pathogenicity. Seven experiments were carried out to investigate the tissue tropism and associated pathology of these novel fowl enterovirus-like viruses and to compare these with the effects of the previously studied enterovirus-like viruses, ELV-1 and avian nephritis (ANV). ANV is now classified as an astrovirus. Preliminary experiments were carried out with FP3 virus, 612 virus and ELV-1 to determine the distribution of viral antigen. Each preliminary experiment was followed by a larger experiment that included more birds and in which a greater range of tissues was studied. It was shown that all four viruses studied replicated in the intestine and had differing abilities to spread to other tissues. Histological changes were present in most antigen-positive tissues but they were usually relatively mild. ELV-1 was associated with the most severe intestinal lesions, followed by FP3 virus. FP3 virus produced lesions in the kidney that were marginally more severe than those caused by the G-4260 strain of ANV. FP3 virus also caused pancreatic lesions. The 612 virus was found to be only mildly pathogenic in specific pathogen free chickens.
Evaluation of Marek's disease field isolates by the "best fit" pathotyping assay.	Although determination of the pathotype is central to the study of Marek's disease (MD) field isolates, methods are not standardized and results from different laboratories may not compare well with the original Avian Disease and Oncology Laboratory assay. This study was designed to investigate the validity of the "best fit" pathotyping assay, a simplified method recently described for testing of field isolates of MD virus (MDV). Twenty serotype 1 MDV strains were isolated from 12 breeder and commercial flocks in eight regions of the Russian Federation and were pathotyped by the best fit assay using vaccinated and non-vaccinated chickens from Schelkovo specific pathogen free breeders. Lesion responses induced by field isolates were compared with those induced by reference strains JM/102W, Md5, and 648A representing pathotypes v, vv and vv+, respectively. Based on comparison with reference strains, we determined the pathotype of eight isolates as vv+, 11 isolates as vv and one isolate as v. Lesion responses induced by the three reference strains consistently differentiated the respective pathotypes in non-vaccinated chickens and in chickens vaccinated with FC126 (serotype 3) alone or with a bivalent FC126 + 301B/1 vaccine (serotypes 3 and 2, respectively). Variation between reference strain responses in replicate trials was minimal. In some cases, calculation of the proportional distance between pairs of reference strains aided in the classification of field isolates. These results indicate that the "best fit" pathotyping assay can be conducted with local chicken strains and, in the absence of statistical analysis, provides pathotype designations that are consistent with those obtained by the Avian Disease and Oncology Laboratory method. In addition, the pathogenicity of Russian isolates appeared comparable with that of United States isolates.
Avian reovirus-induced apoptosis related to tissue injury.	Apoptosis plays an important role in pathogenesis of many viral infections. Infection of chicken with avian reovirus S1133 causes tissue injury related to virus-induced apoptosis. To determine whether avian reovirus (ARV) induced apoptosis in chicken tissues, six 3-week-old specific pathogen free White Leghorn chicks were inoculated with ARV S1133. Tissues were dual-labelled for the simultaneous detection of viral antigen containing and apoptotic cells. DNA laddering was detected in ARV-infected but not mock-infected chicken tissues. Dual-labelling assay revealed that the majority of antigen-expressing cells were not apoptotic. Surprisingly, some apoptotic but non-antigen-expressing cells were frequently located in the vicinity of antigen-expressing cells. Syncytium formation in ARV-infected chicken tissues undergoing apoptosis was apparent, suggesting a correlation between virus replication and apoptosis in chicken tissues.
Adverse effects attributed to long-term radon inhalation in rats.	The aim of this study was to investigate the adverse effect of long-term radon exposure on lung and blood cells in rats exposed to different radiation doses. Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to radon for cumulative doses up to 66, 111, and 174 WLM (work level month). Total number and differential cells counts were determined in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and the peripheral blood, as well as the activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and levels of glutathione (GSH) and total protein. DNA damage and interleukin (IL)-6 mRNA expression in BALF cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were detected by single cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), respectively. The results showed that radon-exposed lymphocytes were significantly lower and granulocytes higher in BALF compared to blood in exposed groups. The distance of DNA migration in the BALF and PBMC increased in a dose-dependent manner. A positive correlation between the PBMC and BALF cells in terms of DNA damage was noted. These findings suggested that PBMC might be used as a surrogate for BALF cells and thus the easier non-invasive ability to obtain PBMC may be useful in detection of lung DNA damage induced by radon.
Quantitative trait locus analysis of plasma cholesterol levels and body weight by controlling the effects of the Apoa2 allele in mice.	Colleagues and I previously performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis on plasma total-cholesterol (T-CHO) levels in C57BL/6J (B6) x RR F2 mice. We identified only one significant QTL (Cq6) on chromosome 1 in a region containing the Apoa2 gene locus, a convincing candidate gene for Cq6. Because Cq6 was a highly significant QTL, we considered that the detection of other potential QTLs might be hindered. In the present study, QTL analysis was performed in B6.KK-Apoa2b N(8) x RR F2 mice [B6.KK-Apoa2b N(8) is a partial congenic strain carrying the Apoa2b allele from the KK strain, and RR also has the Apoa2b allele] by controlling of the effects of the Apoa2 allele, for identifying additional QTLs. Although no significant QTLs were identified, 2 suggestive QTLs were found on chromosomes 2 and 3 in place of the effects of the Apoa2 allele. A significant body weight QTL was identified on chromosome 3 (Bwq7, peak LOD score 5.2); its effect on body weight was not significant in previously analyzed B6 x RR F2 mice. Suggestive body weight QTL that had been identified in B6 x RR F2 mice on chromosome 4 (LOD score 3.8) was not identified in B6.KK-Apoa2b N(8) x RR F2 mice. Thus, contrary to expectation, the genetic control of body weight was also altered significantly by controlling of the effects of the Apoa2 allele. The QTL mapping strategy by controlling of the effects of a major QTL facilitated the identification of additional QTLs.
The role of Tyro 3 subfamily receptors in the regulation of hemostasis and megakaryocytopoiesis.	The molecular mechanisms regulating megakaryocytopoiesis and hemostasis remain largely unknown. The Tyro 3 subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK), which is composed of three members (Tyro 3, Axl and Mer), plays important roles in various tissues, such as those in the nervous, immune and reproductive systems. Here, we investigate the roles of the Tyro 3 RTK subfamily in regulating megakaryocytopoiesis and hemostasis.
Review of rapid molecular diagnostic tools for avian influenza virus.	Molecular diagnostic tests are commonly used to diagnose avian influenza virus because they are sensitive and can be performed rapidly, with high throughput, and at a moderate cost. Molecular diagnostic tests recently have proven themselves to be invaluable in controlling disease outbreaks around the world. Several different methods, including traditional reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR), real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and nucleic acid sequence-based amplification among others, have been described for the diagnosis of avian influenza in poultry with many different variations of primers, probes, enzymes, etc. Few of these tests have been validated, with the understanding that validation should be described as a level of comparison testing to show "fitness for purpose." None of the molecular diagnostic tests are validated for all species or specimen types that might be presented to a diagnostic laboratory. The sensitivity and specificity for all the molecular tests are governed by three critical control points, including RNA extraction, enzymes used for amplification, and the sequence of primers and probes. The RNA extraction step is of particular concern, since high-quality RNA is needed for any of the molecular tests. Some sample types, including cloacal (fecal) swabs and tissues, are difficult to process, with issues of poor RNA extraction or PCR inhibitors being common. The development of internal controls, robotics, and bead reagents are providing improved performance of existing tests, and new technologies will likely provide better tests for the future. With any molecular test, assay assurance must be performed on an ongoing basis, which includes the use of proficiency panels to measure test performance.
Efficacy of two H5N9-inactivated vaccines against challenge with a recent H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza isolate from a chicken in Thailand.	The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of two avian influenza (AI) H5-inactivated vaccines containing either an American (A/turkey/Wisconsin/68 H5N9; H5N9-WI) or a Eurasian isolate (A/chicken/Italy/22A/98 H5N9; H5N9-It). Three-week-old specific pathogen-free chickens were vaccinated once and challenged 3 wk later with a H5N1 highly pathogenic AI (HPAI) virus isolated from a chicken in Thailand in 2004. All unvaccinated challenged birds died within 2 days, whereas 90% and 100% of chickens vaccinated with H5N9-WI and H5N9-It, respectively, were protected against morbidity and mortality. Both vaccines prevented cloacal shedding and significantly reduced oral shedding of the challenge HPAI virus. Additional chickens (vaccinated or unvaccinated) were placed in contact with the directly challenged birds 18 hr after challenge. All unvaccinated chickens in contact with unvaccinated challenged birds died within 3 days after contact, whereas unvaccinated chickens in contact with vaccinated challenged birds either showed a significantly delayed mortality or did not become infected. All vaccinated contacts were protected against clinical signs, and most chickens did not shed detectable amount of HPAI virus. Altogether, these data indicate that both vaccines protected very well against morbidity and mortality and reduced or prevented shedding induced by direct or contact exposure to Asian H5N1 HPAI virus.
Effects of homologous and heterologous neuraminidase vaccines in chickens against H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza.	The 2004 Asian H5N1 epizootic outbreak indicates the urgent need for vaccines against highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus. The manufacture of inactivated whole-virus vaccines from HPAI viruses by traditional methods is not feasible for safety reasons as well as technical issues. The low pathogenic avian influenza A/wild bird feces/CSM2/02 (H5N3) virus was used as a heterologous neuraminidase vaccine, and HPAI A/CK/Korea/ES/03 (H5N1) virus was used as a homologous neuraminidase vaccine. Protection efficacy of both vaccines was evaluated by clinical signs, mortality rates, and virus shedding from oropharynx and cloaca of vaccinated chickens after challenge with HPAI A/CK/Korea/ES/03 (H5N1) virus. One dose of 128 hemagglutinin (HA) homologous H5N1 vaccine induced 100% protection in mortality and prevented viral shedding completely after lethal dose virus challenge, whereas one dose of 64 HA unit of heterologous H5N3 vaccine only induced 50% protection in mortality, and it did not prevent viral shedding. However, two doses at a 3-wk interval of 64 HA unit of heterologous H5N3 vaccine as well as one dose of 1024 HA unit of heterologous H5N3 vaccine induced 100% survival rate and could prevent viral shedding completely. Furthermore, we could differentiate the sera of infected birds from those of vaccinated birds by indirect immunofluorescent antibody test. These results suggest that heterologous neuraminidase H5N3 vaccine could be a useful tool for the control of H5N1 HPAI epidemic in poultry.
Assessment of the protection afforded by triple baculovirus recombinant coexpressing H5, N3, M1 proteins against a homologous H5N3 low-pathogenicity avian influenza virus challenge in Muscovy ducks.	In Asia, domestic ducks have been shown to play a pivotal role in H5 high-pathogenicity avian influenza virus transmission. We have also observed that the same situation may exist for H5 low-pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI) virus. No data are available regarding the protection afforded by commercial inactivated vaccines against H5 LPAI virus infection in ducks, and two preliminary experiments using commercial inactivated vaccines gave poor results. Virus-like particles (VLPs) have been shown to be immunogenic in different species. With regard to the influenza model, the matrix (M) protein has been shown to be necessary for the formation of VLPs. In order to attempt to develop a VLP influenza vaccine expressing hemagglutinin and neuraminidase (NA) of interest, we generated a triple recombinant baculovirus (rB) expressing three structural proteins: H5, N3, and M, derived from a recent French LPAI virus strain. Although the three proteins were successfully expressed in rB-infected cells and displayed the expected biological activity, no VLPs were observed. Despite this result, the protection afforded to ducks by rB-infected cell lysates was assessed and was compared with the protection afforded by an inactivated commercial H5N9 vaccine. For this purpose, specific-pathogen-free Muscovy ducks (15 per group) received rB-infected cell lysates (3 wk apart), while a second group received the H5N9 vaccine. Ten days after the boost, a homologous virus challenge was implemented. Both vaccines induced positive hemagglutination inhibition titers and M immune response, whereas lysates of rB-infected cells elicited NA immune response. Tracheal and cloacal sheddings were measured using M-based real-time-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and were compared with the sheddings of vaccinated and unvaccinated infected controls. Lysates of rB-infected cells afforded a significant decrease of cloacal shedding and a delayed peak of tracheal shedding, whereas the inactivated commercial vaccine afforded a significant decrease of tracheal shedding only.
Importance of a prime-boost DNA/protein vaccination to protect chickens against low-pathogenic H7 avian influenza infection.	Control of H5/H7 low-pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) virus circulation is a major issue regarding animal and public health consequences. To improve vaccines and to prevent vaccinated poultry from becoming infected and from shedding wild viruses, we initiated studies targeting prevention of H7 infection through DNA vaccines encoding H7 and M1 viral proteins from an Italian H7N1 LPAI virus isolated from poultry in 1999. More recently, we expressed recombinant H7 and M1 proteins in the baculovirus system to assess whether they might enhance immunity when given as a boost after DNA vaccination. The protection afforded by three vaccine combinations-DNA/DNA, DNA/protein, protein/protein-given 3 wk apart were experimentally compared in 20 specific-pathogen-free chickens per group. Ten days after the boost, chickens were challenged with a homologous (Italian H7N1 LPAI) or heterologous (French H7N1 LPAI isolated from mallards in 2001) virus. Tracheal and cloacal shedding was measured by a matrix gene (M)-based real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay and compared with that displayed by unvaccinated infected controls. After the homologous challenge, chickens of every vaccinated group displayed a significant decrease in cloacal shedding, whereas tracheal shedding was not significantly reduced in the protein/protein group. After the heterologous challenge, only the DNA/DNA group showed a nonsignificant decrease in tracheal shedding. According to these two trials, prime-boost DNA/protein vaccination appeared be more advantageous. Further development could be aimed at improving protein expression, shifting subtype (H5), and assessing the interest of proteins as a boost of recombinant vaccines.
Conventional H5N9 vaccine suppresses shedding in specific-pathogen-free birds challenged with HPAI H5N1 A/chicken/Yamaguchi/7/2004.	Avian influenza represents one of the greatest concerns for public health that has emerged in recent times. Highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses belonging to the H5N1 subtype are endemic in Asia and are spreading in Europe and Africa. Vaccination is now considered a tool to support eradication efforts, provided it is appropriately managed. This study was carried out to establish the degree of clinical protection and reduction of viral shedding induced by a high-specification, commercially available avian influenza vaccine of a different lineage and containing a strain with a heterologous neuraminidase (H5N9 subtype) to the challenge virus isolate A/chicken/Yamaguchi/7/2004 (H5N1 subtype).
Efficacy of a fowlpox-vectored avian influenza H5 vaccine against Asian H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus challenge.	A recombinant fowlpox-avian influenza (AI) H5 vaccine (rFP-AIV-HS) expressing the hemagglutinin of the A/turkey/Ireland/1378/83 H5N8 AI isolate has been used in Central America since 1998 to control H5N2 low pathogenicity AI. Previously, this vaccine was shown to induce full protection against a panel of H5 highly pathogenic (HP) AI isolates, including HPAI H5N1. Here, we evaluate the efficacy of rFP-AIV-H5 against escalating doses of HPAI H5N1 A/chicken/ SouthKorea/ES/03 isolate and against the HPAI H5N1 A/chicken/Vietnam/0008/2004 isolate. In both studies, 1-day-old specific pathogen-free (SPF) chickens were vaccinated by subcutaneous route with rFP-AIV-H5 and challenged 3 wk later by the oronasal route. In the first study, full protection was observed up to a challenge dose of 6.5 log10 embryo infectious dose (EID50), and the 50% chicken infectious dose was estimated to be 3.1 and 8.5 log10 EID50 in the control and the rFP-AIV-H5-vaccinated group, respectively. A 2-4 log10 and > 4 log10 reduction of oral and cloacal shedding was observed in rFP-AIV-H5 vaccinated birds, respectively. The rFP-AIV-H5 vaccine induced hemagglutination inhibition antibodies (5.2 log2) detectable with homologous H5N8 antigen. In the second study, rFP-AIV-HS-vaccinated chicks were fully protected against morbidity and mortality after challenge with the 2004 Vietnam isolate, whereas unvaccinated chickens died within 2 days of challenge. Shedding in cloacal swabs was detected in all unvaccinated controls but in none of the rFP-AIV-H5-vaccinated chickens. Together, these results confirm the excellent level of protection induced by rFP-AIV-H5 in SPF chickens against two recent Asian HPAI H5N1 isolates.
Learning deficits and agenesis of synapses and myelinated axons in phosphoinositide-3 kinase-deficient mice.	Although previous studies have reported a role for phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) in axonal definition and growth in vitro, it is not clear whether PI3K regulates axonal formation and synaptogenesis in vivo. The goal of the present study was to clarify the role of PI3K in behavioral functions and some underlying neuroanatomical structures. Immunohistochemistry, an electron-microscopic analysis and behavioral tests were carried out. Knockout mice lacking the p85alpha regulatory subunit of PI3K (p85alpha-/- mice) significantly showed learning deficits, restlessness and motivation deficit. Expression of phosphorylated Akt, which indirectly shows the activity of PI3K, was high in myelinated axons, especially in axonal bundles in the striatum of wild-type mice, but was significantly low in the striatum, cerebral cortex and the hippocampal CA3 of p85alpha-/- mice. The axonal marker protein level decreased mainly in the striatum and cerebral cortex of p85alpha-/- mice. In these two regions, myelinated axons are rich in the wild-type mice. However, the density of myelinated axons and myelin thickness were significantly low in the striatum and cerebral cortex of p85alpha-/- mice. Synaptic protein level was clearly decreased in the striatum, cerebral cortex, and hippocampus of p85alpha-/- mice when compared with wild mice. The present results suggest that PI3K plays a role in the generation and/or maintenance of synapses and myelinated axons in the brain and that deficiencies in PI3K activity result in abnormalities in several neuronal functions, including learning, restlessness and motivation.
Rat lung alveolar type I epithelial cell injury and response to hyperoxia.	Hyperoxia has been shown to cause extensive lung injury, which involves all components of the alveolar septum, although the type I epithelium has generally been reported to be resistant to significant injury. Electron microscopic morphometry was performed to define changes in volumes of subcellular components of alveolar epithelial cells in rats exposed to 85% O2 for 0, 7, and 14 d. Because of their large size, type I cells in control animals actually contain a greater volume of most of the organelles involved in cell metabolism than do type II cells. Hyperoxic exposure causes a dramatic change in the subcellular composition of the average type I cell, suggesting significant injury and/or response. Injury was suggested by the finding that lysosomes plus peroxisomes increased 1,250% after 7 d in hyperoxia and remained elevated by 200% after 14 d of exposure. Volumes of mitochondria, rough endoplasmic reticulum, smooth endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi apparatus increased by 100%, 51%, 91%, and 500%, respectively, after hyperoxia. Qualitative analysis showed an altered, ruffled air border with focal areas of cytoplasmic translucency (suggesting injury) and focal areas of subcellular hypertrophy. Exposure to hyperoxia was associated with more organelles being found in peripheral or attenuated portions of type I alveolar cells. Since the increase in type I organelles exceeds the volume of these organelles in its progenitor, the type II cell, it is likely that hyperoxia causes hypertrophy of the type I alveolar epithelium itself, independent of simple type II cell differentiation. Because of the large size and wide distribution of the type I cell, dramatic shifts in cell substructure caused by hyperoxia are more difficult to detect and require quantitative analysis to fully ascertain the extent of cell alterations.
The influence of age on the response of SPF hens to infection with Salmonella enteritidis PT4.	When Specific Pathogen-Free hens were infected with Salmonella enteritidis PT4 by direct administration into the crop, the age of the bird at infection was found to have an effect on both pathogenesis and antibody response. Birds at 20 weeks of age showed no adverse signs and developed high titres of antibodies of the IgM class, while those which were 1 year old at infection developed relatively little antibody and had acute septicaemia, with 6 of 10 birds either dying or having to be humanely destroyed. The implication of these results for the control of salmonella infections in poultry is discussed.
The first finding of Cryptosporidium baileyi in man.	Oocysts of cryptosporidia whose morphology and measurements corresponded with those of the species Cryptosporidium baileyi were found in the stool of an immunodeficient patient. In autopsy material, cryptosporidia were found in the esophagus, whole intestine, trachea, larynx, lungs, and gall and urinary bladders. None of the 69 suckling mice inoculated with this isolate developed cryptosporidial infection. Infection was successful in 26 chickens inoculated perorally and 6 others subjected to intratracheal inoculation; it was localized in the duodenum, jejunum, bursa Fabricii, and respiratory tract. From day 12 after infection, oocysts of cryptosporidia were found in the excrement. Human infection with C. baileyi may have occurred due to disruption of the immune system by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and to immunosuppressive therapy undertaken after allogeneic kidney transplantation.
Intramuscular relative dose response (RDR) determination of liver vitamin A stores in rats.	This study questioned whether the relative dose response (RDR) method to detect liver stores of vitamin A could be used by intramuscular administration of the vitamin. Vitamin A-deficient and reference rat serum retinol levels were determined by HPLC at zero time and then again 5 h after an intramuscular injection of 5.25 mumol/kg retinyl palmitate. The RDR percentage was calculated: [(A5-A0)/(A5)] x 100. The 5-h RDR was determined in 20 deficient and 16 reference diet rats and a clear relationship to liver retinyl palmitate concentration was demonstrated. At a liver retinyl palmitate concentration of less than 0.105 mumol/g, all RDR values were greater than 20%. When the liver retinyl palmitate was greater than 0.122 mumol/g the RDR was less than 20%. This study suggests that the intramuscular RDR is a valid tool for estimating liver retinyl palmitate in populations in which the oral RDR cannot be administered.
Dietary acid and alkali loading do not alter taurine uptake by renal proximal tubule brush border membrane vesicles in kittens.	Kittens adapted to a purified control diet containing 43.5% soy protein plus 0.15% taurine were randomly divided into three groups: control, acid-loaded or alkali-loaded. For dietary acid or alkali loadings, 2% NH4Cl or 0.87% NaHCO3 plus 0.87% KHCO3 were added to the control diet. Acid-loaded, control and alkali-loaded kittens had venous blood pH of 7.33 +/- 0.01, 7.37 +/- 0.02 and 7.39 +/- 0.02, and urine pH of 5.5 +/- 0.1, 7.2 +/- 0.1 and 8.1 +/- 0.1, respectively. After 6 wk of the dietary treatment, the plasma taurine concentrations of acid-loaded, control and alkali-loaded kittens were 74 +/- 4, 77 +/- 7 and 87 +/- 8 mumol/L (P greater than 0.05) respectively. Compared with the control group, dietary acid or alkali loading did not significantly change the taurine uptake by brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) when BBMV were at the same in vitro pH (7.35). However, when the pH of the medium was changed to 8.0 for the alkali-loaded group or to 5.5 for the acid-loaded group, the initial taurine uptake was significantly elevated (55%) or decreased (31%) (P less than 0.05), respectively, compared with the values for the control group at pH 7.35. When BBMV prepared from the same group were tested at different pH levels (8.0 vs. 7.35 vs. 5.5), the initial uptake significantly increased (30%) at pH 8.0 and decreased (37%) at pH 5.5 compared with that observed at pH 7.35 (P less than 0.05), regardless of the acidity of the diet.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Use of Peyer's patch and lymph node fragment cultures to compare local immune responses to Morganella morganii.	Lymphoid tissue fragment cultures were established to analyze the differentiative processes among B cells in Peyer's patches (PP) and peripheral lymph nodes (PLN), especially those in germinal centers. PP cultures from both conventionally reared mice and formerly germ-free mice colonized with Morganella morganii could be maintained for greater than 12 days with continued B-cell division, especially among cells binding high levels of peanut agglutinin, a characteristic of germinal center cells. PLN cultures from conventionally reared mice injected with a heat-killed vaccine of M. morganii could be maintained for the same amount of time. Over this period, PP cultures continued to secrete immunoglobulin A (IgA) as well as smaller amounts of IgM. PP cultures from formerly germ-free mice colonized with M. morganii showed net increases of IgA antiphosphocholine (anti-PC) antibodies with avidities as high as those of the prototypic T15 monoclonal antibody. Similar PLN fragment cultures from conventionally reared mice given footpad injections of M. morganii showed net increases of IgM and IgG anti-PC antibodies in the culture fluid. Thus, although M. morganii stimulated lymphoid tissues in vivo to produce an anti-PC response in vitro when given by either the oral or the parenteral route, the antibody isotypes differed between PP and PLN fragment cultures. Fragment culturing may offer a complementary and simpler way to detect a local secretory IgA response than does either measuring IgA antibody in secretions or detecting IgA antibody in the cytoplasm of plasma cells in the lamina propria of gastrointestinal or respiratory tissue.
Chronic inhalation toxicity and carcinogenicity study of methyl bromide in Wistar rats.	The toxicity and carcinogenicity of methyl bromide (MeBr) were studied in male and female Wistar rats exposed by inhalation to 0, 3, 30 or 90 ppm MeBr 6hr/day, 5 days/wk for 29 months. After 13, 52 and 104 wk ten rats/sex/group were killed to provide interim information. Body weights, clinical signs, haematology, biochemistry and gross and microscopic pathology were studied. Mortality was increased by wk 114 in the 90-ppm group. Body weights in males and females of the 90-ppm group were lower than those of the controls throughout the study. Increased incidences of degenerative and hyperplastic changes of the nasal olfactory epithelium were observed in all exposed groups, the incidences being positively correlated with the MeBr concentration; the nasal lesions did not progress appreciably with time. Exposure to 90 ppm MeBr was associated with an increased incidence of lesions in the heart (thrombi, myocardial degeneration), and with hyperkeratosis in the oesophagus and forestomach. Data on site, type and incidence of tumours in the various groups did not indicate carcinogenic activity of MeBr.
Mechanism of the combined antitumor effect of natural human tumor necrosis factor-alpha and natural human interferon-alpha on cell cycle progression.	We have studied the mechanism of the synergistic effect of the combination of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) on cell cycle progression using two-parameter flow cytometry in vitro and an immunohistochemical staining method in vivo. The cells used were human colon cancer cell line RPMI 4788 in vitro and in vivo, and human breast cancer cell line MX-1 and human renal cancer cell line NAMKO-1 in vivo. In the in vitro experiment, the cell cycle progressed normally as time elapsed in the control group. However, in the group treated with TNF-alpha and IFN-alpha in combination (combination group), it appeared that the transition from the S phase to the G2/M phase was blocked, and the cells that accumulated in the S phase died. In the in vivo experiment with male nude mice of a CD-1 genetic background, the antitumor effect on all three kinds of cancer cells was significantly greater in the combination group than in the control group. The cell labeling index on staining with bromodeoxyuridine in the combination group became markedly larger and the mitotic index smaller than in the other groups. From these results, it was concluded that in the combination group, both in vitro and in vivo, tumor cells markedly accumulated in the S phase and their progression from the S phase to the G2/M phase in the cell cycle was inhibited.
Protection of rats against dental caries by passive immunization with hen-egg-yolk antibody (IgY).	Hen-egg-yolk antibody (IgY) was prepared against Streptococcus mutans MT8148 serotype c that was cultivated in medium containing sucrose, and it was used in passive caries-immunity studies. Specific pathogen-free rats infected with S. mutans MT8148 (c) and fed with a cariogenic diet containing more than 2% immune yolk powder developed significantly lower caries scores than did the ones infected with the same strain and fed with a diet containing only control yolk powder obtained from non-immunized hens. Similar results were obtained in an experiment with rats infected with S. mutans JC-2 (c) strain. Rats provided a diet supplemented with 0.5% immune water-soluble protein fraction containing S. mutans-specific IgY and challenged with S. mutans MT8148 exhibited significantly fewer caries lesions, compared with control rats on the normal diet.
The influence of training-detraining upon the heart, muscle and adipose tissue of female rats.	The purpose of this study was to measure the effects of a 10 week training, 3 week detraining cycle upon heart, muscle and adipose tissue of the rat. Specific pathogen-free female Wistar rats, 175 g at the onset of the experiments, were separated into three treatment groups; Sedentary Control (SC), Trained (T) and Detrained (DT). Animals from the T group were killed at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 weeks and animals from the DT group were killed at 7, 14 and 21 days after the last day of training. Unweighted swimming--6 h/day, 5 day/week, was the form of training employed. The animals, after being sacrificed, were anesthetized with nembutal (45 mg/kg body wt.) and muscle samples and heart removed. These tissues were frozen and analyzed at a later date for succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity (muscles), total protein (TP), total hydroxylprotein (TH) and wet and dry weight (heart). Adipose tissue was removed last, digested in collagenase (5 mg/ml) and the isolated cells used to measured 2-[3H]deoxyglucose uptake (DOG) and the conversion of D-[1-14C]glucose (C-1) and D-[6-14C]glucose (C-6) to CO2. The results of this study show that 10 weeks of endurance training induced myocardial hypertrophy (P less than 0.05) which involved increases in both TP and TH, the heart of the trained animals having 20.8% more protein and a 28.5% more hydroxlprotein than the sedentary controls. With detraining hypertrophy was lost within 21 days. Training maintained fat cell size at its pre-trained diameter, while inactivity allowed growth in the adipocytes of the control animals. The uptake of DOG and the conversion of glucose C-1 and glucose C-6 to CO2, were significantly (P less than 0.05) higher in the adipocytes of trained animals indicating that they were more responsive to insulin than the sedentary controls, which corresponded to increases in the respiratory enzyme levels of the muscles. During the first 7 days of detraining DOG uptake and both C-1 and C-6 glucose oxidation remained elevated. In conclusion the results of this study clearly demonstrate that there is a direct relationship between adiposity and training that can be related to the insulin responsiveness of the adipose tissue.
Detection of a local staphylococcal infection in mice with technetium-99m-labeled polyclonal human immunoglobulin.	The purpose of this study was to investigate both the ability of 99mTc-labeled polyclonal human immunoglobulin (HIG) to localize an infection and the modes of action involved in this process. Mice, infected with Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 in a thigh muscle, received HIG intravenously. Scintigrams were made 1, 4, and 24 hr later; subsequently the mice were killed and the activity in several organs and thighs was determined. The radiopharmaceutical demonstrated a time-dependent accumulation at the site of infection. It was found that vascular permeability or Fc binding alone could not account for the mode of action of HIG. Neither the origin of Ig (human versus murine) nor the total amount of protein (0.01-1.0 mg Ig per mouse) affected the target-to-background (T/B) ratios. Ratios were not different for leukocytopenic animals. A correlation (p less than 0.001) was demonstrated between the number of bacteria at the site of infection and the T/B ratio. This was also found after antibiotic treatment (p less than 0.02).
Malignant potential of cells isolated from lymph node or brain metastases of melanoma patients and implications for prognosis.	We studied the correlation between the formation of brain metastasis and the malignant growth potential of seven human melanoma cell lines, isolated from lymph node metastases (A375-SM, TXM-1, DM-4) or from brain metastases (TXM-13, TXM-18, TXM-34, TXM-40), and the potential of three variants of the mouse K-1735 melanoma. Growth rates in different concentrations of fetal bovine serum and colony-forming efficiency in semisolid agarose were measured, and the tumorigenicity and metastatic ability were determined in nude mice (for the human melanoma cell lines) or in C3H/HeN mice (for the K-1735 variants). The ability to form brain metastasis was tested by injection of cells into the carotid artery. A high colony-forming efficiency in agarose, especially at concentrations of agarose greater than 0.6%, corresponded with high tumor take rates, rapid tumor growth rates, and metastatic colonization of the lungs of the recipient mice. For the human melanomas, the lymph node metastasis-derived cells were more tumorigenic and metastatic than the brain metastasis-derived cells. In the K-1735 mouse melanoma, the tumorigenic and metastatic behavior of the cells after i.v. and s.c. injection corresponded with growth in agarose cultures. However, for growth in the brain after intracarotid injection, the different melanoma cell lines showed similar frequencies of tumor take, regardless of tumorigenicity in other sites of the recipient mice, although mice given injections of brain metastasis-derived cells survived longer than mice given injections of lymph node metastasis (human melanoma) or lung metastasis (K-1735 M-2)-derived cell lines. The results from the human and mouse melanoma cell lines show that the brain metastasis-derived cell lines were not more malignant than the lymph node or lung metastasis-derived cells. These data imply that the production of brain metastasis is not always the final stage of a metastatic cascade.
Studies on the prenatal toxicity of N,N-dimethylformamide in mice, rats and rabbits.	Prenatal toxicity studies with N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) in rabbits, rats and mice were carried out using the oral (gavage), dermal, inhalation and ip injection routes of administration. Administration of DMF by gavage led to an increase in malformations in rats and mice in the absence of overt maternal toxicity. The lowest-observable-effect level was 182 mg/kg body weight/day in mice and 166 mg/kg body weight/day in rats. After dermal administration a dose-dependent incidence of teratogenicity was observed in rats at 94-944 mg/kg/body weight/day in the absence of overt maternal toxicity. In rabbits dermal administration led to a steeper increase in the dose-response relationship and at 400 mg/kg body weight/day to a clear teratogenic effect in the presence of slight maternal toxicity. The 200 mg/kg body weight/day dose appeared to be the no-adverse-effect level. Inhalation in rats caused foetotoxicity and embryolethality at 287 ppm. A clear teratogenic effect was shown in rabbits at 450 ppm and a marginal effect at 150 ppm. The no-effect level for does and foetuses was 50 ppm. Ip injection in mice caused clear teratogenicity at 944 mg/kg body weight/day and slight embryotoxicity at 378 mg/kg body weight/day. The rabbit appears to be more sensitive than the rat to DMF-related prenatal toxicity and should, therefore, be used as the basis for the evaluation of teratogenic risk in humans.
Normal serum immunoglobulins influence the numbers of bone marrow pre-B and B cells.	The homeostatic mechanisms controlling B lymphocyte output from bone marrow are not well understood. The present experiments evaluated putative influences of circulating immunoglobulins (Ig) on bone marrow (BM) pre-B and B cell populations. Injections into normal mice of Ig isolated from normal mouse serum, resulted in a dose-dependent and reversible reduction in numbers of BM B lineage cells, in particular of small B220+ surface IgM- cells. Maximal effects were observed upon injection of isologous polyclonal Ig and were independent of mature T cells. These results suggest a feedback modulation of peripheral Ig on cellular activities in BM B lineage compartments, mediated by mechanisms that seem to involve the variable regions of the Ig molecule.
Cell-mediated immunity to Eimeria in the fowl: the absence of cross-species protection is not due to the lack of cross-reactive T cells.	Immunity to Eimeria species in the fowl has been shown to be species specific and it has been proposed that the lack of cross-protection between the species of Eimeria is due to the absence of T cells which recognize antigens from a heterologous species. When this hypothesis was tested the results showed that antigens from E. tenella elicited a strong specific response by cells from birds immune to E. tenella. In contrast cells from birds which were immune to E. acervulina responded to a similar magnitude to both E. tenella and E. acervulina antigens. This indicates that the lack of cross-protection is not due to the lack of cross-reactive T cells.
Inhibition of growth of a tapeworm Hymenolepis diminuta in its normal host (rat).	The biomass of 8-day-old worms of Hymenolepis diminuta in secondary infections, administered to rats 3-10 days after chemotherapeutically expelling a primary infection, was 70-90% less, and the worms were more posteriorly distributed, than in naive controls. The strong depressive effect on growth waned rapidly over 2-5 weeks, but even in rats not challenged until 17 months later, worm growth was weakly depressed by 30%. The extent to which growth was depressed in a secondary infection was independent of the number of worms in the challenge but increased with number of worms in the immunizing infection up to four to eight worms. Further increase up to 64 worms had little effect. This suggests, as it is known that the biomass of worms in a rat reaches a maximum with infections of between five and 10 worms, that the change in the intestine is proportional to biomass, not number, of worms. It is argued that partially suppressed immuno-inflammatory changes in the intestine, which will affect secondary worms so strongly, will also have depressed growth and fecundity effects on the primary worms, that a dynamic equilibrium is reached between the strength of the intestinal response and the biomass of the tapeworm, and that it is reaching this equilibrium, not a 'crowding effect', which limits H. diminuta to a level compatible with the survival of the rat.
Potential subunit vaccine against Mycoplasma pulmonis purified by a protective monoclonal antibody.	Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were produced against Mycoplasma pulmonis (MP); some were highly protective in the treatment of experimental infections of BALB/c mice. The mAbs inhibited MP growth in vitro and prevented the attachment of MP to fibroblasts or to red blood cells. Three separate mAbs recognized 54-76% of 54 clinical isolates of MP, and the three together detected all 54 isolates. We used the mAbs to purify the antigens by affinity column chromatography. The purified antigen used to vaccinate mice and to immunize rabbits produced antibodies capable of significant growth inhibition in sera and tracheolung lavage fluids. The vaccinated mice were challenged with various doses of a highly virulent T2 strain of MP. Assays for viable MP organisms and for histopathological changes in the lungs of infected mice indicated that mice were protected if the challenge dose was 10(3)-10(5), but not 10(7), c.f.u. The sera of immunized rabbits were used to passively transfer immunity to mice. The sera provided complete protection against 1 x 10(6) c.f.u. T2 MP. We conclude that MP antigens purified by this protocol can provide a safe vaccine against this disease, at least in mice.
A study of bovine and equine immunoglobulin levels in pony foals fed bovine colostrum.	As part of a project to raise specific pathogen free (SPF) Welsh Mountain Pony foals, free from exposure to Equid herpesvirus type 1, foals were removed from their dams at birth and fed bovine colostrum. This study characterises the uptake of bovine colostral immunoglobulin and production of endogenous immunoglobulin, in 10 SPF foals. An enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay was developed to measure serum concentrations of bovine IgG1 (boIgG1) to assess the efficiency of transfer, and rate of elimination of boIgG1 by the foal. The endogenous production of equine IgG was studied using a single radial immunodiffusion test. Foals were given 1.2 to 2 litres of bovine colostrum achieving peak serum boIgG1 concentrations of 18.9 to 34.2 g/litre (mean 28.0). The mean half-life of boIgG1 in the foals was 7.4 days. Endogenous immunoglobulin production resulted in equine IgG concentrations greater than 2 g/litre in six of 10 foals by 14 to 19 days of age, and greater than 7 g/litre in eight of 10 foals by 37 to 50 days of age. All foals had equine IgG serum concentrations greater than 10 g/litre by 102 to 135 days of age.
Studies on lipid peroxidation in rat tissues following administration of low and moderate doses of cadmium chloride.	The susceptibility to lipid peroxidation (LPO) of liver, kidneys, brains, lungs, heart, and testes was assessed in rats administered intraperitoneally with various doses of cadmium (Cd). Dose-response studies were carried out with male Long Evans rats (12-week-old; 300 +/- 33 g) injected with 25, 125, 500, and 1250 micrograms Cd/kg as CdCl2 and sacrificed after 24 h. In time-response studies, animals were administered with 25 and 500 micrograms Cd/kg as CdCl2 and sacrificed after 2, 6, 12, 24, and 72 h. Exposure of rats to low and moderate doses of Cd by the intraperitoneal route stimulated LPO in all the tissues investigated as assessed by the measurement of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). Lungs and brain were the most responsive, and these tissues and liver displayed early responses following Cd exposure. Comparison of LPO to various tissue indicators (for liver: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP); for lungs: ALP, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT] suggested that low doses of Cd stimulated LPO without any evidence of acute damages. These results suggest that LPO is an early and sensitive consequence of Cd exposure as determined in various organs. Investigation of liver, lungs, and heart antioxidant defense system components (glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione reductase (GR), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH), superoxide dismutase (SOD] revealed that GPX might be considered as a potential modulator of the Cd-induced LPO reaction in lungs and heart tissues.
Subacute exposure to low concentrations of toluene affects dopamine-mediated locomotor activity in the rat.	The effects of low concentrations of toluene (40-80 ppm, 3 days, 6 h/day) were investigated on spontaneous and on apomorphine-induced locomotor activity in the rat, and were correlated to effects on S(-)[N-propyl-3H(N)]-propylnorapomorphine ([3H]NPA) binding in rat neostriatal membranes, on membrane fluidity, membrane leakage, and calcium levels in synaptosomes from the frontoparietal cortex, the neostriatum and the subcortical limbic area, and on serum hormone levels. Toluene exposure (80 ppm, post-exposure delay 18 h) alone did not affect locomotor activity, but attenuated apomorphine-induced (0.05 mg/kg, s.c.) suppression of rearing, and potentiated apomorphine-induced (1 mg/kg, s.c.) increases in locomotion and rearing. Toluene exposure increased the KD value of [3H]NPA binding without affecting the Bmax. All these effects were absent at 40 ppm of toluene or at a post-exposure delay of 42 h. Toluene exposure (80 ppm, post-exposure delay of 18 h) did not affect the serum levels of prolactin, TSH, corticosterone, or aldosterone, or synaptosomal membrane fluidity and calcium levels, whereas membrane leakage was increased in the neostriatum. The present study indicates that the reduction of D-2 receptor affinity by short-term, low-dose toluene exposure is accompanied by a reduced D-2 autoreceptor function and an enhanced postsynaptic D-2 receptor function.
Production of colony-stimulating factors during pneumonia caused by Chlamydia trachomatis.	The colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) are cytokines involved in the production, differentiation, and activation of host phagocytes. During murine infection with Chlamydia trachomatis (MoPn), plasma CSF levels increased in euthymic (nu/+) and athymic (nu/nu) BALB/c mice. Levels declined later in infection, with the nu/+ mice resolving the infection but the nu/nu mice succumbing by day 16. Either live or heat-killed Chlamydia organisms could induce CSF increases on day 7 postchallenge in nu/+ mice; however, by day 14, only mice challenged with live organisms maintained high plasma levels. CSFs were also produced by spleen cells of nu/+ and nu/nu mice in response to Chlamydia antigen. Spleen cell CSF production was detectable by days 3 to 5 postinfection. In nu/+ mice, spleen cell CSF production was elevated throughout the rest of the time course but in nu/nu mice fell significantly at day 14. Like the plasma CSF activity (CSA) production, spleen cell CSA production on day 7 was seen in mice challenged with either live or heat-killed Chlamydia organisms, but on day 14 only nu/+ mice challenged with live organisms maintained significant CSA production. To further characterize the T-cell dependence of CSA production, spleen cells of nu/+ mice were depleted of T cells or T-cell subsets before producing supernatants. On day 14 postinfection, the CD4+ lymphocyte was the major producer of CSFs. Additionally, there were different types of CSFs secreted by nu/+ and nu/nu mice as determined by the ability of spleen cell supernatants to support the granulocyte-macrophage CSF/interleukin 3-dependent cell line FDCP-1. Supernatants from nu/+ mice had 4 to 8 times the level of FDCP-1 CSF activity of the supernatants from nu/nu mice. These results support the evidence that nu/+ mice were producing some CSFs by T-cell-dependent mechanisms. This is the first report of CSF production in vivo during Chlamydia infection. Furthermore, we show that CSFs are produced by both T-cell-dependent and T-cell-independent mechanisms. The capacity of the CSFs to increase the production and effector function of phagocytes may be important to host defenses.
Oral administration of SSG, a beta-glucan obtained from Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, affects the function of Peyer's patch cells.	The effect of orally administered SSG, a beta-1,3-glucan obtained from the culture filtrate of a fungus, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum IFO 9395, on the function of Peyer's patch (PP) cells was investigated in comparison with that on spleen cells in mice. Oral administration of SSG enhanced the proliferative response of PP cells to a T-cell mitogen, concanavalin A (Con A), and a B-cell mitogen, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), although the response of spleen cells was not affected. Peyer's patch cells taken from mice which had received oral administration of SSG two days before, showed enhanced plaque-forming cell (PFC) response to sheep red blood cells (SRBC) after antigen (SRBC) stimulation for 5 days in vitro. These results suggest that oral administration of SSG can modulate the mucosal immune response.
Mystery swine disease in The Netherlands: the isolation of Lelystad virus.	In early 1991, the Dutch pig-industry was struck by the so-called mystery swine disease. Large-scale laboratory investigations were undertaken to search for the etiological agent. We focused on isolating viruses and mycoplasmas, and we tested paired sera of affected sows for antibodies against ten known pig viruses. The mycoplasmas M. hyosynoviae, M. hyopneumoniae, and Acholeplasma laidlawii, and the viruses encephalomyocarditis virus and porcine enterovirus types 2 and 7 were isolated from individual pigs. An unknown agent, however, was isolated from 16 of 20 piglets and from 41 of 63 sows. This agent was characterised as a virus and designated Lelystad virus. No relationship between this virus and other viruses has yet been established. Of 165 sows reportedly afflicted by the disease, 123 (75 per cent) seroconverted to Lelystad virus, whereas less than 10 per cent seroconverted to any of the other virus isolates or to the known viral pathogens. Antibodies directed against Lelystad virus were also found in pigs with mystery swine disease in England, Germany, and in the United States. We conclude that infection with Lelystad virus is the likely cause of mystery swine disease.
Comparison of antibody response by use of synthetic adjuvant system and Freund complete adjuvant in rabbits.	Two commercially available synthetic adjuvant systems, trehalose dimycolate (TDM) and TDM + monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), were compared with Freund complete adjuvant (FCA) for the ability to stimulate antibody production in New Zealand White rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus). In addition, each animal was evaluated for adverse reactions. The antigen, rat liver microsomal epoxide hydrolase, was administered SC emulsified with FCA, TDM, or TDM + MPL. Serum antibody titers were stimulated with all 3 adjuvant-antigen combinations. The highest titer was produced by use of FCA; TDM + MPL produced an intermediate response, and TDM produced the lowest titer. All of the rabbits immunized with FCA developed sterile subcutaneous abscesses. Rabbits immunized with TDM or TDM + MPL developed no abscesses, and only slight reactions at the injection site. The synthetic adjuvant system TDM + MPL is recommended for use in rabbits, considering its adequate stimulation of antibody production with minimal adverse reactions.
Effects of nitroscanate on adult Taenia pisiformis in dogs with experimentally induced infections.	Twenty-four specific-pathogen-free Beagles were each given 50 cysticerci of Taenia pisiformis that had been harvested from experimentally infected rabbits. Quantitative fecal egg counts and fecal screening for recovery of passed segments were performed on postinoculation days 56 through 70. Twenty-three of 24 dogs fed cysticerci developed patent infections. The 23 dogs with patent infections were assigned to 1 of 2 groups and treated with nitroscanate or a placebo 60 days after inoculation. Egg counts in the treated dogs had markedly decreased by the second day after treatment, and by the sixth day after treatment, segments were not found in the feces of any of the treated animals. The control dogs continued to pass eggs and segments in their feces throughout the 9 days after treatment. The dogs were euthanatized and necropsied 70 days after being inoculated. At necropsy, the mean number of scolices recovered from control dogs was 24.6, the mean number of scolices recovered from treated dogs was 0.25. Worms recovered from the control dogs were intact, gravid cestodes. Efficacy of treatment with nitroscanate at a mean dosage of 56 mg/kg of body weight was 98.9%.
An evaluation of the cross-protection afforded by inactivated infectious coryza vaccines.	The cross-protection afforded by three inactivated infectious coryza vaccines was evaluated. Each vaccine contained one of the following strains of Haemophilus paragallinarum, HP31, HP60 and HP14. Strain HP31 belongs to Kume serovar C-2, strain HP60 belongs to Kume serovar C-4 while strain HP14 belongs to Kume serovar A-4. Four groups of twenty six-week-old specific-pathogen-free chickens were either given a single dose of an aluminium-hydroxide based vaccine (three groups) or left as unvaccinated controls. Three weeks after vaccination, all four groups were challenged with virulent H paragallinarum. One half of each group was challenged with the strain HP31 and the other half with strain HP60. The efficacy of the vaccines was assessed in terms of the prevention of the typical clinical signs and macroscopic lesions of infectious coryza as well as the prevention of any colonisation by the challenge organism. The serovar C-2 and serovar C-4 vaccines protected more than 50% of birds against either a serovar C-2 or C-4 challenge while the serovar A-4 vaccine protected less than 50% of birds.
Evaluation of different methods of inactivation of Newcastle disease virus and avian influenza virus in egg fluids and serum.	Viruses conveyed in shipments of eggs, viral diagnostic reagents, or avian serum samples are a potential hazard for susceptible poultry. Different methods of treatment of those materials to eliminate the hazard of virulent and avirulent strains of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) or avian influenza virus (AIV) were evaluated. The NDV strains tested were more thermostable than the AIV strains. The results suggest that standard pasteurization methods would not reliably inactivate the concentrations of NDV used. beta-Propiolactone (BPL) (greater than or equal to 0.025%) inactivated NDV or AIV in allantoic fluid, but higher concentrations were needed to inactivate virus diluted in serum. Hemagglutination (HA) of NDV and AIV and hemolysis (HL) activity of NDV were reduced or eliminated by 0.4% BPL. Formalin (greater than or equal to 0.04%) inactivated either virus but adversely affected HA and HL activity. NDV or AIV was inactivated by binary ethylenimine (BEI) (0.01 M) with no adverse effect on HA or HL. Heat (56 C) or BEI (0.01 M) had no apparent effect on hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) titers of NDV and AIV antisera, the effect of formalin (0.1%) was variable, and BPL (greater than or equal to 0.25%) depressed the HI titers of both antisera. The optimum method should achieve virus inactivation without harming the treated material.
Pathogenicity of CL-1 chicken anemia agent.	Twelve-day-old broiler-type chickens had hemorrhagic necrotic wing tips. After 10 blind subcultures in an MDCC-MSB1 cell line, a virus (so-called chick anemia agent [CAA]) was isolated and designated CL-1 CAA. Five-day-old specific-pathogen-free chicken embryos from a commercial breeder flock that were found not to possess antibody against CAA were infected with CL-1 virus via yolk-sac injection. Many (49%) infected embryos were small and apparently had died from severe systemic hemorrhage. Hatched chicks were small and had pale feathers, skin, skeletal muscles, bone marrow, and viscera. All infected chicks had small thymuses. These thymuses often were so small that they could not be found grossly (P = 0.002). Anemia occurred within 4 days post-hatch. Microscopically, all hematopoietic organs were markedly atrophic. Septic necrotizing lesions were seen only in organs from CL-1-injected chicks. Physicochemical and pathological characteristics of this virus indicate that it is similar to other isolates of CAA found in Europe and Japan.
Influence of antigen concentration, inoculation interval, number of exposures, type of housing, and placement concentration on the tear antibody response to Brucella abortus in chickens.	A series of trials was run in leghorn chicks to examine select conditions affecting the tear antibody response to killed Brucella abortus antigen given by eyedrop administration. Specific conditions examined were concentration of antigen, number of antigen exposures, and interval between antigen exposures. Trials were also run to determine the earliest age at which the assay was functional in both broilers and leghorns. Two types of housing (isolators and battery cages) were examined, as were two levels of placement concentration, or bird density (0.32 and 0.64 ft. [0.03 and 0.06 m2]/chicken). All trials included intraperitoneally inoculated chicks as a comparison; tears as well as serum were assayed for antibodies. Of the various antigen regimens evaluated, two exposures of 20% B. abortus given 3 days apart was found to give a satisfactory antibody response in the tears 1 week later. Furthermore, response to B. abortus was found to be somewhat proportional to age, with the minimum age for a satisfactory response being 3 weeks in leghorns or 4 weeks in broilers. Statistically, there were no differences in antibody responses due to the types of housing or levels of placement used.
Interleukin-2 enhances the translocation of Escherichia coli from the intestines to other organs.	To determine if interleukin-2 (IL-2) would inhibit gastrointestinal bacterial translocation, mice were gut-decontaminated and recolonized with Escherichia coli C25; some groups were pretreated with 200 mg/kg cyclophosphamide. IL-2 (1.68 mg/kg) or sterile diluent was injected twice daily for 3 or 5 days, and mice were sacrificed the next day. High cecal levels of E. coli C25 were present in all mice. The overall incidence of E. coli C25 translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes was not reduced by IL-2. The median numbers of translocated E. coli C25/g of mesenteric lymph node were significantly (P less than .005) higher after both 3 days (659 vs. 117) and 5 days (550 vs. 50) of treatment with IL-2 with cyclophosphamide and after 5 days (1784 vs. 225) of IL-2 without cyclophosphamide. IL-2 prevented neutropenia and exacerbated lymphopenia caused by cyclophosphamide. The in vitro growth of E. coli C25 was not affected by up to 10(5) units/ml IL-2. Ileal and cecal structures assessed by light and electron microscopy were not altered by IL-2. Thus, IL-2 unexpectedly enhanced the translocation of E. coli C25 from the gastrointestinal tracts of both cyclophosphamide-pretreated and normal mice.
Hematogenous pneumococcal meningitis in the infant rat: description of a model.	Sensorineural deafness occurs in 20%-30% of children after Streptococcus pneumoniae meningitis. An infant rat model of S. pneumoniae meningitis was developed to study the pathogenesis of inner ear invasion by S. pneumoniae. S. pneumoniae type 6 was administered intraperitoneally (inoculum: 1-10 x 10(8) cfu) every 24 h for 3 days to 5-day-old rats. Bacteremia (12 [50%] of 24) and meningitis (11 [46%] of 24) were detected most frequently 4 days after the three doses. The mean cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) white blood count for rats with positive CSF cultures was 7271/mm3 (range, 81-20,475). Hematoxylin-eosin-stained brain tissue from the 11 rats with positive CSF cultures showed inflammation in the meninges and scala tympani in 9 each (82%), and scala vestibuli in 6 (55%), but none in the scala media. Gram's-stained brain and inner ear sections from the same 11 rats showed organisms in the meninges in 5 (45%) and scala tympani or vestibuli in 2 (18%). Perilymphatic inflammation occurred significantly (P less than .001) more than did endolymphatic inflammation.
Phenotypes, proliferative responses, and suppressor function of lung lymphocytes during Toxoplasma gondii pneumonia in mice.	Toxoplasma gondii pneumonia has emerged as an important problem in immunocompromised patients, especially those with AIDS. The characteristics of lung lymphocytes, including their phenotypes, proliferative responses, and suppressor function during T. gondii pneumonia were studied. During primary acute T. gondii infection, the numbers of T lymphocytes in the lungs increased even though mice lacked histologic evidence of pneumonia. As mice recovered from acute toxoplasmosis, numbers of lung CD4+ cells and the ratio of CD4+ to CD8+ cells decreased. Subsequently, T. gondii infection reactivated, manifested as pneumonia. During pneumonia, lung T lymphocytes, especially CD8+ cells, increased even more. Lung lymphocytes from mice with T. gondii pneumonia decreased the proliferative responses of splenocytes from T. gondii-immune mice to both concanavalin A and T. gondii lysate antigens in vitro. The striking increase in lung CD8+ cells and suppressor activity appear to be integral to the pathogenesis of T. gondii pneumonia.
Spontaneous and cytokine-inducible 'natural' immunoglobulin secreting cells in organized lymphoid tissues of mice.	The number and frequency of spontaneous and cytokine-inducible 'natural' immunoglobulin-secreting cells (ISC) were determined in bone marrow (BM), spleen and Peyer's patch (PP), in vitro. Cells were cultured at limiting dilution in the presence or absence of exogenous recombinant cytokines and supernatants then assayed for total immunoglobulin (Ig) and Ig isotype using an ELISA. Most spontaneous ISC were found in the spleen and BM, with fewer in PP. The addition of recombinant interleukin 5 (rIL-5) promoted a marked increase in both the ISC frequency and the amount of Ig secreted/ISC whereas recombinant IL-6 (rIL-6) promoted only a marginal increase. Recombinant IL-4 (rIL-4) promoted a marginal increase in ISC frequency only. The isotype profile of ISC was in the order IgM greater than IgG2 greater than IgA greater than IgG3 greater than IgG1. The exposure of cells to 1200 rad of gamma-radiation resulted in decreased numbers of spontaneous ISC in all tissues, but the addition of rIL-5 or rIL-6 to the irradiated cells increased both the ISC frequency and Ig secreted. The Ig isotype profile was similar to that of non-irradiated ISC with a few minor exceptions. This large population of potential cytokine-inducible ISC could contribute to 'natural' Ig secretion in vivo.
Behavioural method to detect marginal neurotoxic effects of ivermectin in DA/Orl rats.	Ivermectin (22, 23-dihydroavermectin B 1) in subtoxic doses was administered subcutaneously to young adult DA rats. Prior to treatment the rats had been trained in a visual discrimination learning programme until their response pattern was stable. The behavioural response data were recorded during continued discrimination testing following the Ivermectin injection and compared with those of a control group. The results showed that the Ivermectin injection reduced the total number of lever presses and reinforcement collections. Further the treatment caused an increase in the total number of erroneous responses.
The role of cerebellar genes in pathology of autism and schizophrenia.	Schizophrenia and autism are neurodevelopmental diseases that have genetic as well as environmental etiologies. Both disorders have been associated with prenatal viral infection. Brain imaging and postmortem studies have found alterations in the structure of the cerebellum as well as changes in gene expression. Our laboratory has developed an animal model using prenatal infection of mice with human influenza virus that has demonstrated changes in behavior, pharmacology, structure, and gene expression in the brains of exposed offspring. In the current communication we describe altered expression of cerebellar genes associated with development of brain disorder in a mouse model for schizophrenia and autism and correlate these changes with those involved in the pathology of these two disorders.
Pathogenesis of an acute viral hepatitis: inclusion body hepatitis in the chicken.	The pathogenesis of inclusion body hepatitis was studied following the oral administration of a serotype 8 strain of avian adenovirus into 2-day-old specific pathogen free chickens. Viral antigens were detected in tissues at various times post inoculation (pi) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and by immunocytochemistry. Viral antigens were detected in intestinal epithelium from 12h to 13 days pi and in the plasma fraction of blood by 24 h pi. A biphasic, cell-free viremia with peaks at 2 and 7 days pi was recorded. Antigens were first detected in the liver from 2 days and reached peak levels at 6 days pi. The second peak of viral antigens in blood plasma was probably due to release of virus from damaged hepatic cells. Initially, viral antigens in the liver were restricted to cells lining the sinusoids but increasing involvement of hepatocytes occurred with time. Small amounts of viral antigens were detected in other tissues. Following the appearance of neutralizing antibodies in serum from 7 days pi, the levels of viral antigens in all tissues decreased and were undetectable by 15 days pi. This viral hepatitis of chickens is possibly a useful model for other viral infections where a cell-free viremic phase is important for spread of virus from primary sites to target organs, such as the liver.
Latent murine cytomegalovirus DNA in splenic stromal cells of mice.	Latency is an integral feature of the pathogenesis of cytomegalovirus infection and disease. Using in situ hybridization, we detected viral DNA in the splenic stroma of mice with acute murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) infection but could not detect latent infection. By using enzymatic amplification of a 700-bp region of exon 4 of immediate-early gene 1 of MCMV, viral DNA was consistently detected in whole spleens of latently infected mice. MCMV DNA was detected in 16 of 23 stromal cell fractions from latently infected animals, in only 2 of 13 residual nonstromal cell fractions, and in none of 9 additional lymphocyte or macrophage-enriched nonstromal cell preparations. We conclude that MCMV DNA is maintained predominantly, and possibly exclusively, in stromal cells in the spleens of latently infected mice.
Evaluation of the immune response elicited by multi-antigenic DNA vaccine expressing SAG1, ROP2 and GRA2 against Toxoplasma gondii.	The parasite Toxoplasma gondii can infect most mammals and birds, sometimes causing severe pathology. Previous studies have reported that multi-antigenic vaccines were more effective than single-antigenic vaccine. It was also reported that the a single-gene vaccine with SAG1 or ROP2, GRA2 could only produce partial protection against T. gondii. In this study, we constructed a multi-antigenic DNA vaccine containing SAG1, ROP2 and GRA2, and evaluated its immune response. We used IL-12 as an adjuvant to enhance the immune response. We immunized BALB/c mice intramuscularly. After immunization, we evaluated the immune response using lymphocyte proliferation assay, cytokine and antibody measurements. The results showed that the group immunized with pcDNA3.1-SAG1-ROP2-GRA2 produced high Th1 immune response compared to other groups immunized with double-gene plasmid, empty plasmid or phosphate-buffered saline, respectively. Moreover, the co-immunization with IL-12 genes enhanced the immune response significantly and prolonged survival time. The current study showed that multi-antigenic DNA with IL-12 produced potent, effective and long-term protection against T. gondii challenge.
Evaluation of immunization with tachyzoite excreted-secreted proteins in a novel susceptible mouse model (A/Sn) for Toxoplasma gondii.	Toxoplasma gondii is an important food-borne parasite transmitted primarily from animals to humans through meat consumption, mainly pork and lamb, as well as through oocysts shed by cats. Infection in humans can cause severe neonatal malformations, ocular complications or encephalitis. Toxoplasmosis infection during pregnancy, especially in sheep, often results in abortion, representing considerable economic loss. The aim of this study was to investigate whether Toxoplasma gondii pooled excreted-secreted antigens (ESA), recovered from infected culture supernatants with tachyzoites used as immunogen, can protect experimental mice against T. gondii infection. For immunization experiments, we evaluated A/Sn inbred mice, a novel susceptible mouse model for T. gondii and a virulent strain (RH) for challenge experiments. The antigen selection was based on those produced by tachyzoites since they are responsible for disseminating the infection as well as stimulating the humoral and cellular immune responses. ESA were recovered from VERO cell-culture supernatants infected with virulent RH strain tachyzoites harvested after 48 h. Groups of 5 female mice were intraperitoneally (i.p.) immunized with 4 doses at 2 week intervals with 20 microg of ESA adsorbed to 0.5 mg of alum. The control group received only the adjuvant in PBS on the same dates. Pooled serum collected from chronically infected mice was used as positive control. Blood samples were collected from tail veins 14 days after each immunization. Antibody was detected using ELISA, indirect immunofluorescence and immunoblotting. Anti-ESA antibodies were also evaluated by agglutination, complement-mediated lysis and antibody-mediated cellular toxicity. Fifteen days after the last immunization, both groups were challenged (i.p.) with 1 x 10(3) RH strain tachyzoites. The parasitemia was evaluated by PCR, and survival was followed daily. The results showed an increase of antibody levels after each immunization. Anti-ESA antibodies also reacted with a crude tachyzoite antigen and bonded on the parasite surface, with particularly high intensity at the apical region. Anti-ESA antibodies were also able to agglutinate and kill tachyzoites in vitro through interactions with complement and cellular pathways. Even though the tachyzoite challenge was lethal to the mice, PCR results suggested that immunized mice had lower parasitemia as well as longer survival (72 h) than mice from the control group.
Efficacy and safety of cell associated vaccines against Marek's disease virus grown in a continuous cell line from chickens.	The Marek's disease virus (MDV) vaccine strains CVI 988 and herpes virus of turkeys (HVT) strain FC126, usually are grown in primary chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF). We found that the strains could be grown also in the so-called JBJ-1 cell line to titres in the same range as when chicken embryo fibroblasts were used. The JBJ-1 cell line is a fibroblast-like continuous chicken cell line, which can be grown in flat bottom tissue culture flasks, roller bottles and on micro carriers. We investigated the efficacy of experimental CVI 988 vaccines grown in JBJ-1 cells and the efficacy of combinations of CVI 988 grown in JBJ-1 cells with HVT FC 126 also grown in JBJ-1 cells. The study was performed in accordance with European Pharmacopoeia monograph 0589 for live MDV disease vaccines. Groups of 1-day-old SPF chicks were vaccinated subcutaneously or intramuscularly, with 10(2.5) TCID50 per dose of CVI 988 alone or in combination with 500PFU per dose of HVT. As a control a group vaccinated with CVI 988 grown in CEF was included. One group was not vaccinated. Five days after vaccination all chickens were challenged with the very virulent MDV strain RB1B. After challenge the chickens were observed for a period of 70 days for signs of Marek's disease (MD). The protection induced by CVI 988 grown in JBJ-1 cells and the combination of CVI 988 and HVT-FC126 both grown in JBJ-1 cells, amply complied with the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia which prescribes that the protection index should be at least 80%. The safety of the vaccines grown in JBJ-1 cells was tested in a field study in commercial layer chickens. No signs of MD were noticed during the study and no other signs attributable to the vaccine. It is concluded that the JBJ-1 cell line is a suitable substrate for the current vaccines against MD.
Shiga toxin 2 affects the central nervous system through receptor globotriaosylceramide localized to neurons.	Affinity-purified Shiga toxin (Stx) 2 given intraperitoneally to mice caused weight loss and hind-limb paralysis followed by death. Globotriaosylceramide (Gb(3)), the receptor for Stx2, was localized to neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) of normal mice. Gb3 was not found in astrocytes or endothelial cells of the CNS. In human cadaver CNS, we found Gb(3) in neurons and endothelial cells. Mouse Gb(3) localization was confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy. In Stx2-exposed mice, anti-Stx2-gold immunoreaction was positive in neurons. During paralysis, after Stx2 injection, multiple glial nuclei were observed surrounding motoneurons by electron microscopy. Also revealed was a lamellipodia-like process physically inhibiting the synaptic connection of motoneurons. Ca2+ imaging of cerebral astrocytic end-feet in Stx2-treated mouse brains suggested that the toxin increased neurotransmitter release from neurons. In this article, we propose that the neuron is a primary target of Stx2, affecting neuronal function and leading to paralysis.
Use of soft hydrothermal processing to improve and recycle bedding for laboratory animals.	Cage bedding for laboratory rodents can influence animal wellbeing and thus the experimental data. In addition, a large amount of used bedding containing excrement is discharged as medical waste from life science institutes and breeding companies. We developed a ground-breaking system to improve fresh bedding and recycle used bedding by applying a soft hydrothermal process with high-temperature and high-pressure dry steam. The system removes both harmful organic components and aromatic hydrocarbons that can affect animals' metabolism. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the chemical and physical properties of the improved fresh bedding and the recycled used bedding treated by the system. The results showed that 68-99% of the predominant aromatic hydrocarbons were removed from fresh bedding treated at 0.35 MPa and 140 degrees C for 120 min ('improved bedding'). In addition, 59.4-99.0% of predominant harmful organic compounds derived from excrement were removed from used bedding treated at 0.45 MPa and 150 degrees C for 60 min ('recycled bedding'). The soft hydrothermal treatment increased the number of acidic functional groups on the bedding surface and gave it the high adsorptive efficiency of ammonia gas. Harmful substances such as microorganisms, heavy metals and pesticides decreased below the detection limit. The results clearly showed that the improved and recycled bedding is safer for laboratory rodents and has the potential to ameliorate conditions in primary and secondary enclosures (e.g. cages and animal rooms) used for maintaining laboratory animals. This process may be one of the most advanced techniques in providing an alternative to softwood and other bedding, economizing through the recycling of used bedding and reducing bedding waste from animal facilities.
Efficacy of sulphasalazine on lung histopathology in a murine model of chronic asthma.	Sulphasalazine is a specific inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) which plays a key role in asthma. To determine the impact of sulphasalazine in the treatment of chronic asthma, BALB/c mice were sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin. Mice with experimentally induced asthma in group I received saline, group II sulphasalazine 200 mg/kg, group III sulphasalazine 300 mg/kg, and group IV dexamethasone 1 mg/kg intraperitoneally once a day in the last 7 days of the challenge period. Histological findings of the airways were evaluated by light and electron microscopies. Dexamethasone and sulphasalazine in both doses significantly improved all airway histopathologic parameters of asthma except numbers of goblet cells. Both doses of sulphasalazine improved thicknesses of basement membrane better than dexamethasone. Dexamethasone reduced the number of mast cells better than sulphasalazine (200 mg/kg). Further studies are needed to evaluate the efficacy of sulphasalazine in the treatment of asthma.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor elicits bone marrow-derived cells that promote efficient colonic mucosal healing.	Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) therapy is effective in treating some Crohn's disease (CD) patients and protects mice from colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) administration. However, its mechanisms of action remain elusive. We hypothesized that GM-CSF affects intestinal mucosal repair.
TNF-alpha modulates iNOS expression in an experimental rat model of indomethacin-induced jejunoileitis.	Multiple mucosal immune factors, such as TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, are thought to be key mediators involved in inflammatory bowel disease. We evaluated the role of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) expression in indomethacin-induced jejunoileitis in rats. Jejunoileitis was induced in rats with subcutaneous injections of indomethacin (7.5 mg/kg) 24 h apart for two consecutive days, and animals were randomized into four groups. Group 1 received only indomethacin. Group 2 was treated with a daily dose of phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor (theophylline or pentoxifylline) by oral gavage for 2 days before and 4 days after indomethacin. Group 3 received a single dose of anti-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody (TNF-Ab, IP) 30 min before indomethacin. Group 4 was treated with 1 h hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO(2)) for 5 days after indomethacin. Rats were sacrificed at 12 h or 4 days after final indomethacin injection. PDE inhibitor, TNF-Ab, or HBO(2) treatment significantly decreased indomethacin-induced ulceration, myeloperoxidase activity, and disease activity index. Although indomethacin significantly increased serum TNF-alpha and nitrate/nitrite (NOx) concentrations above control values at 12 h, inducible NOS (iNOS) expression was detected only at day 4. Serum IL-1beta levels did not change at 12 h but increased 4-fold after 4 days. Indomethacin had no effect on constitutive NOS. Treatment with PDE inhibitor, TNF-Ab, or HBO(2) significantly reduced serum/tissue TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, NOx, and iNOS expression. Our data show TNF-alpha plays an early pro-inflammatory role in indomethacin-induced jejunoileitis. Additionally, down-regulation of NOx by PDE inhibitors, TNF-Ab, or HBO(2) suggests that TNF-alpha modulates iNOS expression.
Dectin-1 and inflammation-associated gene transcription and expression in mouse lungs by a toxic (1,3)-beta-D glucan.	The form of (1-3)-beta-D glucan found in the cell walls of the anamorphic Trichocomaceae that grow on damp building materials is considered to have potent toxic and inflammatory effects on cells of the respiratory system. It is also considered to have a potential role in the development of non-allergenic respiratory health effects. While human studies involving experimental exposures all point to the inflammatory potential of pure curdlan, a linear (1-3)-beta-D glucan in a triple helix configuration, animal experiments result in conflicting conclusions concerning the inflammatory potency of this glucan. However, because mice appear to be a better model than guinea pigs for exploring the respiratory effects of curdlan and because molecular mechanisms associated with this glucan remain largely unknown, we conducted further work to clarify the role of curdlan on the inflammatory response using our mouse model of lung disease. This study used in situ hybridization (ISH) to probe dectin-1 mRNA transcription with a digoxigenin-labeled cDNA probe, with reverse transcription (RT)-PCR based arrays used to measure inflammation gene and receptor transcriptional responses. Also, immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to probe dectin-1 as well as anti-mouse Ccl3, Il1-alpha, and TNF-alpha expression to evaluate dose and time-course (4 and 12 h) postexposure (PE) response patterns in the lungs of intratracheally instilled mice exposed to a single 50 mul dose of curdlan at 10(-7), 10(-8), 10(-9), and 10(-10) M/animal (=4 mug to 4 ng curdlan/kg lung wt). Dectin-1 mRNA transcription and expression was observed in bronchiolar epithelium, alveolar macrophages (AMs), and alveolar type II cells (ATIIs) of lungs exposed to 4 mug to 40 ng curdlan/kg lung wt, at both time points. Compared to controls, array analysis revealed that 54 of 83 genes assayed were significantly modulated by curdlan. mRNA transcription patterns showed both dose and time dependency, with highest transcription levels in 10(-7) and 10(-8) M treatment animals, especially at 4-h PE. Nine gene mRNA transcripts (Ccl3, Ccl11, Ccl17, Ifng, Il1alpha, Il-20, TNF-alpha, Tnfrsf1b, and CD40lg) were significantly expressed at all doses suggesting they may have a central role in immunomodulating curdlan exposures. IHC revealed Ccl3, Il1-alpha, and TNF-alpha expression in bronchiolar epithelium, AMs and ATIIs illustrate the important immunomodulatory role that these cells have in the recognition of, and response to glucan. Collectively, these results confirm the inflammatory nature of curdlan and demonstrate the complex of inflammation-associated gene responses induced by (1-3)-beta-D glucan in triple helical forms. These observations also provide a biological basis for the irritant and inflammatory response to curdlan observed in humans and animals in experimental studies.
Two novel HLA-A*0201 T-cell epitopes in avian H5N1 viral nucleoprotein induced specific immune responses in HHD mice.	The influenza A nucleoprotein (NP) is an attractive target for avian flu vaccine development because of its high conversancy in the evolutionary chain of the virus. Here we identified two novel HLA-A*0201 restricted NP epitopes, named H5N1 NP373-381 AMDSNTLEL (NP373) and NP458-466 FQGRGVFEL (NP458), using computational bioinformatic analysis. The NP peptides showed a high binding affinity to HLA-A*0201 on T2 cells, and were able to induce the activation of the cytotoxic T cells in the human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We examined the potential of using NP373 and NP458 peptide sequences supplemented with a single-chain trimer as potential DNA vaccine candidates in an HHD transgenic mouse model. A gene gun delivery system was used for administrating the vaccine candidates into the animals. The results from cytotoxicity and ELISPOT assays indicated that a significant amount of IFN-gamma was secreted by the T cells of the vaccinated mice, and the T cells were able to eliminate the corresponding peptide-loaded T2 cells. The discovery of these novel immunogenic NP peptides provides valuable information for avian flu vaccine design and construction.
Emergence of a group 3 coronavirus through recombination.	Analyses of turkey coronavirus (TCoV), an enteric disease virus that is highly similar to infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) an upper-respiratory tract disease virus in chickens, were conducted to determine the adaptive potential, and genetic changes associated with emergence of this group 3 coronavirus. Strains of TCoV that were pathogenic in poults and nonpathogenic in chickens did not adapt to cause disease in chickens. Comparative genomics revealed two recombination sites that replaced the spike gene in IBV with an unidentified sequence likely from another coronavirus, resulting in cross-species transmission and a pathogenicity shift. Following emergence in turkeys, TCoV diverged to different serotypes through the accumulation of mutations within spike. This is the first evidence that recombination can directly lead to the emergence of new coronaviruses and new coronaviral diseases, emphasizing the importance of limiting exposure to reservoirs of coronaviruses that can serve as a source of genetic material for emerging viruses.
Elucidation of the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic determinant of colistin activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa in murine thigh and lung infection models.	Colistin is increasingly used as last-line therapy against Gram-negative pathogens. The pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) index that best correlates with the efficacy of colistin remains undefined. The activity of colistin against three strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa was studied in neutropenic mouse thigh and lung infection models. The PKs of unbound colistin were determined from single-dose PK studies together with extensive plasma protein binding analyses. Dose-fractionation studies were conducted over 24 h with a dose range of 5 to 160 mg/kg of body weight/day. The bacterial burden in the thigh or lung was measured at 24 h after the initiation of treatment. Relationships between antibacterial effect and measures of exposure to unbound (f) colistin (area under the concentration-time curve [fAUC/MIC], maximum concentration of drug in plasma [fC(max)]/MIC, and the time that the concentration in plasma is greater than the MIC [fT > MIC]) were examined by using an inhibitory sigmoid maximum-effect model. Nonlinearity in the PKs of colistin, including its plasma protein binding, was observed. The PK/PD index that correlated best with its efficacy was fAUC/MIC in both the thigh infection model (R(2) = 87%) and the lung infection model (R(2) = 89%). The fAUC/MIC targets required to achieve 1-log and 2-log kill against the three strains were 15.6 to 22.8 and 27.6 to 36.1, respectively, in the thigh infection model, while the corresponding values were 12.2 to 16.7 and 36.9 to 45.9 in the lung infection model. The findings of this in vivo study indicate the importance of achieving adequate time-averaged exposure to colistin. The results will facilitate efforts to define the more rational design of dosage regimens for humans.
Eimeria tenella: cloning and characterization of telomerase reverse transcriptase gene.	Telomerase is essential for maintaining telomere length and chromosome stability in most eukaryotic organisms. The telomerase ribonucleoprotein complex consists of two essential components, the intrinsic telomerase RNA and the catalytic telomerase reverse transcriptase protein. Here we describe the cloning, sequencing and characterization of the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic subunit from the apicomplexan protozoon Eimeria tenella. The amino acid sequence predicted from it has all the signature motifs of the TERT family members. The E. tenella TERT cDNA contains an open reading frame encoding a protein with 1497 amino acids predicted size of 172kDa and isoelectric point of 9.344. It contains the conserved reverse transcriptase motifs 1, 2, A, B, C, D and E as well as the TERT-specific T motif and the N-terminal conserved motifs GQ, CP and QFP. RT-PCR analysis indicated that E. tenella TERT mRNA expressed in sporozoites and merozoites phase while not in unsporulated oocysts. At the same time, the result of TRAP assay indicated that marked telomerase activity were detected in sporozoites and merozoites. In contrast, telomerase activity was not detected in unsporulated oocysts.
A human microsatellite DNA-mimicking oligodeoxynucleotide with CCT repeats negatively regulates TLR7/9-mediated innate immune responses via selected TLR pathways.	A human microsatellite DNA-mimicking ODN (MS ODN) composed of CCT repeats, designated as SAT05f, has been studied for its capacity of negatively regulating innate immunity induced by TLR7/TLR9 agonists in vitro and in mice. The result showed that SAT05f could down-regulate TLR7/9-dependent IFN-alpha production in cultured human PBMC stimulated by inactivated Flu virus PR8 or HSV-1 or CpG ODN or imiquimod, protect d-GalN-treated mice from lethal shock induced by TLR9 agonist, not by TLR3/4 agonist. In addition, SAT05f significantly inhibit IFN-alpha production from purified human plasmacytoid cells (pDCs) stimulated by CpG ODN. Interestingly, SAT05f could up-regulate CD80, CD86, and HLA-DR on the pDCs in vitro, implying that SAT05f-mediated inhibition on IFN-alpha production could be related to the activation of pDCs. The data suggest that SAT05f could be developed as a candidate medicament for the treatment of TLR7/9 activation-associated diseases by inhibiting TLR7/9 signaling pathways.
Left ventricular enlargement in coxsackievirus-B3 induced chronic myocarditis--ongoing inflammation and an imbalance of the matrix degrading system.	Enteroviruses, especially Coxsackie B3 virus (CVB-3), cause acute viral myocarditis, but the detailed mechanisms leading to chronic left ventricular dysfunction and dilatation remain elusive. Myocardial tissues of CVB-3 infected and sham infected male swr/J mice were analyzed after hemodynamic evaluation on days 4, 7, and 28 p.i. by RT-PCR, gelatin zymography, ELISA, immunohistochemistry, sirius red staining, and luxol fast blue staining. In the early phase after infection an abnormal diastolic function was the main hemodynamic finding. CVB-3 infection caused impairment of left ventricular function combined with ventricular dilatation 7 and 28days post-infection. These hemodynamic findings were associated with relevant upregulation of different cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, INF-gamma, and TNF-alpha) in the acute phase with persistent over-expression of IL-6, IL-10, and INF-gamma in the chronic phase. This virus induced myocardial inflammation was linked to a significant induced MMP/TIMP system (MMP-2,-3,-8, TIMP-1, uPA, tPA-mRNA expression, and MMP-2-activity) in the acute and chronic phase leading to imbalance in the MMP/TIMP-ratio at day 28. This imbalance in the MMP/TIMP system was significantly correlated to the development of ventricular dilatation. Viral persistence induces chronic myocardial inflammation and an imbalance of the matrix degrading system, associated with the development of left ventricular dysfunction and dilatation in chronic murine myocarditis.
Blimp1-mediated repression of negative regulators is required for osteoclast differentiation.	Regulation of irreversible cell lineage commitment depends on a delicate balance between positive and negative regulators, which comprise a sophisticated network of transcription factors. Receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL) stimulates the differentiation of bone-resorbing osteoclasts through the induction of nuclear factor of activated T cells c1 (NFATc1), the essential transcription factor for osteoclastogenesis. Osteoclast-specific robust induction of NFATc1 is achieved through an autoamplification mechanism, in which NFATc1 is constantly activated by calcium signaling while the negative regulators of NFATc1 are suppressed. However, it has been unclear how such negative regulators are repressed during osteoclastogenesis. Here we show that B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (Blimp1; encoded by Prdm1), which is induced by RANKL through NFATc1 during osteoclastogenesis, functions as a transcriptional repressor of anti-osteoclastogenic genes such as Irf8 and Mafb. Overexpression of Blimp1 leads to an increase in osteoclast formation, and Prdm1-deficient osteoclast precursor cells do not undergo osteoclast differentiation efficiently. The importance of Blimp1 in bone homeostasis is underscored by the observation that mice with an osteoclast-specific deficiency in the Prdm1 gene exhibit a high bone mass phenotype caused by a decreased number of osteoclasts. Thus, NFATc1 choreographs the determination of cell fate in the osteoclast lineage by inducing the repression of negative regulators as well as through its effect on positive regulators.
NleH effectors interact with Bax inhibitor-1 to block apoptosis during enteropathogenic Escherichia coli infection.	The human pathogens enteropathogenic (EPEC) and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli and the related mouse pathogen Citrobacter rodentium subvert a variety of host cell signaling pathways via their plethora of type III secreted effectors, including triggering of an early apoptotic response. EPEC-infected cells do not develop late apoptotic symptoms, however. In this study we demonstrate that the NleH family effectors, homologs of the Shigella effector kinase OspG, blocks apoptosis. During EPEC infection, NleH effectors inhibit elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations, nuclear condensation, caspase-3 activation, and membrane blebbing and promote cell survival. NleH1 alone is sufficient to prevent procaspase-3 cleavage induced by the proapoptotic compounds staurosporine, brefeldin A, and tunicamycin. Using C. rodentium, we found that NleH inhibits procaspase-3 cleavage at the bacterial attachment sites in vivo. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified the endoplasmic reticulum six-transmembrane protein Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1) as an NleH-interacting partner. We mapped the NleH-binding site to the N-terminal 40 amino acids of BI-1. Knockdown of BI-1 resulted in the loss of NleH's antiapoptotic activity. These results indicate that NleH effectors are inhibitors of apoptosis that may act through BI-1 to carry out their cytoprotective function.
Plasma pharmacokinetics and oral bioavailability of the 3,4,5,6-tetrahydrouridine (THU) prodrug, triacetyl-THU (taTHU), in mice.	Cytidine drugs, such as gemcitabine, undergo rapid catabolism and inactivation by cytidine deaminase (CD). 3,4,5,6-tetrahydrouridine (THU), a potent CD inhibitor, has been applied preclinically and clinically as a modulator of cytidine analogue metabolism. However, THU is only 20% orally bioavailable, which limits its preclinical evaluation and clinical use. Therefore, we characterized THU pharmacokinetics after the administration to mice of the more lipophilic pro-drug triacetyl-THU (taTHU).
One-step multiplex reverse-transcriptase PCR for detecting pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza virus.	Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza has spread throughout the world since April 2009 and has caused many human deaths since its first report in humans. Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza virus was first identified in a Canadian pig herd in April 2009 and has been reported in more than ten countries, including Korea. We developed a one-step multiplex reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay based on the matrix gene that discriminates pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza virus from endemic swine influenza viruses. The sensitivity of this assay was 100 copies of in vitro-transcribed target RNA and 0.01 tissue culture infective dose (TCID(50)/ml) of virus and was as high as those of conventional influenza A virus common matrix reverse transcriptase PCR assays and real-time reverse transcriptase PCR assays (1 to 200 copies) developed for detecting pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza viruses from human and pig samples. This one-step multiplex RT-PCR assay would be a good tool in monitoring pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza virus among pig herds on a regular basis.
Establishment of a reflux esophago-laryngitis model in rats.	To investigate the pathophysiology of reflux laryngitis, an experimental model is required.
Variable impact of CD39 in experimental murine colitis.	Dysregulation of immune responses in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) results in intestinal inflammation and vascular injury while exacerbating systemic disease. CD39 is an ectonucleotidase, expressed by T regulatory cells and dendritic cells, that hydrolyzes extracellular nucleotides to modify those cellular immune responses implicated in IBD. Genetic polymorphisms of CD39 have been linked to Crohn's disease while gene deletion in mice exacerbates dextran sodium sulphate-induced colitis.
Cardiovascular performance of adult breeding sows fails to obey allometric scaling laws.	In view of the remarkable decrease of the relative heart weight (HW) and the relative blood volume in growing pigs, we investigated whether HW, cardiac output (CO), and stroke volume (SV) of modern growing pigs are proportional to BW, as predicted by allometric scaling laws: HW (or CO or SV) = aBW(b), in which a and b are constants, and constant b is a multiple of 0.25 (quarter-power scaling law). Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that both HW and CO scale with BW to the power of 0.75 (HW or CO = aBW(0.75)) and SV scales with BW to the power of 1.00 (SV = aBW(1.0)). For this purpose, 2 groups of pigs (group 1, consisting of 157 pigs of 50  1 kg; group 2, consisting of 45 pigs of 268  18 kg) were surgically instrumented with a flow probe or a thermodilution dilution catheter, under open-chest anesthetized conditions to measure CO and SV, after which HW was determined. The 95% confidence intervals of power-coefficient b for HW were 0.74 to 0.80, encompassing the predicted value of 0.75, suggesting that HW increased proportionally with BW, as predicted by the allometric scaling laws. In contrast, the 95% confidence intervals of power-coefficient b for CO and SV as measured with flow probes were 0.40 to 0.56 and 0.39 to 0.61, respectively, and values obtained with the thermodilution technique were 0.34 to 0.53 and 0.40 to 0.62, respectively. Thus, the 95% confidence limits failed to encompass the predicted values of b for CO and SV of 0.75 and 1.0, respectively. In conclusion, although adult breeding sows display normal heart growth, cardiac performance appears to be disproportionately low for BW. This raises concern regarding the health status of adult breeding sows.
Passaging of a Newcastle disease virus pigeon variant in chickens results in selection of viruses with mutations in the polymerase complex enhancing virus replication and virulence.	Some Newcastle disease virus (NDV) variants isolated from pigeons (pigeon paramyxovirus type 1; PPMV-1) do not show their full virulence potential for domestic chickens but may become virulent upon spread in these animals. In this study we examined the molecular changes responsible for this gain of virulence by passaging a low-pathogenic PPMV-1 isolate in chickens. Complete genome sequencing of virus obtained after 1, 3 and 5 passages showed the increase in virulence was not accompanied by changes in the fusion protein--a well known virulence determinant of NDV--but by mutations in the L and P replication proteins. The effect of these mutations on virulence was confirmed by means of reverse genetics using an infectious cDNA clone. Acquisition of three amino acid mutations, two in the L protein and one in the P protein, significantly increased virulence as determined by intracerebral pathogenicity index tests in day-old chickens. The mutations enhanced virus replication in vitro and in vivo and increased the plaque size in infected cell culture monolayers. Furthermore, they increased the activity of the viral replication complex as determined by an in vitro minigenome replication assay. Our data demonstrate that PPMV-1 replication in chickens results in mutations in the polymerase complex rather than the viral fusion protein, and that the virulence level of pigeon paramyxoviruses is directly related to the activity of the viral replication complex.
Molecular identification and expression analysis of lipocalins from blood feeding taiga tick, Ixodes persulcatus Schulze.	Lipocalins have been known for their several biological activities in blood-sucking arthropods. Recently, the identification and characterization of lipocalins from Ixodes ricinus (LIRs) have been reported and functions of lipocalins are well documented. In this study, we have characterized four Ixodes persulcatus lipocalins that were discovered while analyzing I. persulcatus tick salivary gland EST library. We show that the four I. persulcatus lipocalins, here after named LIPERs (lipocalin from I. persulcatus) are 28.8-94.4% identical to LIRs from I. ricinus. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed that lipocalin genes were expressed specifically in the salivary glands throughout life cycle stages of the ticks and were up-regulated by blood feeding. The specific expressions were also confirmed by Western blotting analysis. Furthermore, to investigate whether native lipocalins are secreted into the host during tick feeding, the reactivity of anti-serum raised against saliva of adult ticks to recombinant lipocalins was tested by Western blotting. The lipocalins are potentially secreted into the host during tick feeding as revealed by specific reactivity of recombinant lipocalins with mouse antibodies to I. persulcatus tick saliva. Preliminary vaccination of mice with recombinant lipocalins elicited that period to reach engorgement was significantly delayed and the engorgement weight was significantly reduced as compared to the control. Further elucidation of the biological functions of LIPERs are required to fully understand the pathways involved in the modulation of host immune responses.
Plasmodium berghei ANKA: erythropoietin activates neural stem cells in an experimental cerebral malaria model.	Cerebral malaria (CM) causes substantial mortality and neurological sequelae in survivors, and no neuroprotective regimens are currently available for this condition. Erythropoietin (EPO) reduces neuropathology and improves survival in murine CM. Using the Plasmodium berghei model of CM, we investigated if EPO's neuroprotective effects include activation of endogenous neural stem cells (NSC). By using immunohistochemical markers of different NSC maturation stages, we show that EPO increased the number of nestin(+) cells in the dentate gyrus and in the sub-ventricular zone of the lateral ventricles, relative to control-treatment. 75% of the EPO-treated CM mice displayed migration as nestin(+) NSC. The NSC showed differentiation towards a neural cell lineage as shown by PSA-NCAM binding and NSC maturation and lineage commitment was significantly affected by exogenous EPO and by CM in the sub ventricular zone. These results indicate a rapid, EPO-dependent activation of NSC during CM pathology.
Neurexin-1, a presynaptic adhesion molecule, localizes at the slit diaphragm of the glomerular podocytes in kidneys.	The slit diaphragm connecting the adjacent foot processes of glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes) is the final barrier of the glomerular capillary wall and serves to prevent proteinuria. Podocytes are understood to be terminally differentiated cells and share some common features with neurons. Neurexin is a presynaptic adhesion molecule that plays a role in synaptic differentiation. Although neurexin has been understood to be specifically expressed in neuronal tissues, we found that neurexin was expressed in several organs. Several forms of splice variants of neurexin-1 were detected in the cerebrum, but only one form of neurexin-1 was detected in glomeruli. Immunohistochemical study showed that neurexin restrictedly expressed in the podocytes in kidneys. Dual-labeling analyses showed that neurexin was colocalized with CD2AP, an intracellular component of the slit diaphragm. Immunoprecipitation assay using glomerular lysate showed that neurexin interacted with CD2AP and CASK. These observations indicated that neurexin localized at the slit diaphragm area. The staining intensity of neurexin in podocytes was clearly lowered, and their staining pattern shifted to a more discontinuous patchy pattern in the disease models showing severe proteinuria. The expression and localization of neurexin in these models altered more clearly and rapidly than that of other slit diaphragm components. We propose that neurexin is available as an early diagnostic marker to detect podocyte injury. Neurexin coincided with nephrin, a key molecule of the slit diaphragm detected in a presumptive podocyte of the developing glomeruli and in the glomeruli for which the slit diaphragm is repairing injury. These observations suggest that neurexin is involved in the formation of the slit diaphragm and the maintenance of its function.
Temperature changes in a cemented mandibular endoprosthesis: in vitro and in vivo studies.	Using polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) cement in cemented endoprostheses may cause heat necrosis and prosthesis failure due to the highly exothermic reaction. This study determined the magnitude and duration of temperature change during the cementation of a mandibular endoprosthesis in an in vitro and in vivo Macaca fasicularis model. In the in vivo study the median maximum temperature (T(max)) around the mandible-prosthesis unit (MPU) was 31.0C with the peak T(max) at hole 1 (1mm from stem). The in vitro study recorded a lower T(max) and indicated a trend that increased spacing (groove) around the prosthesis results in a higher T(max). All the T(max) MPU measurements were lower than normal body temperature (38C). In the in vivo study the median maximum temperature change (T(max)) was 1.8C; in the vitro study, the T(max) of the 4mm groove width was significantly higher than all others. Temperature increases were transient, with the temperature returning to baseline a median of 6.0min after T(max). Histological analysis showed surrounding tissue at the cement-bone interface with mild inflammation. Within the parameters tested, there was minimal risk of thermal damage. The temperature changes were influenced by the quantity of cement used and the distance from the prosthesis stem.
Granuloma formation around filarial larvae triggered by host responses to an excretory/secretory antigen.	In previous studies using a murine model of filarial infection, granuloma formation was found to be a most important host-protective mechanism. We have also shown that in vitro cytoadherence is a surrogate for the formation of antifilarial granulomas in vivo and that it requires "alternatively activated" host cells and a source of antifilarial antibody. We show here that antibodies against L3 excretory/secretory (E/S) products can facilitate in vitro cytoadherence. We generated a set of hybridomas reactive with filarial E/S products and screened them for their ability to mediate in vitro cytoadherence. One clone (no. 1E9) was positive in this assay. We then screened a novel expression library of filarial antigens displayed on the surface of T7 bacteriophage for reactivity with 1E9. Phage expressing two filarial antigens (TCTP and BmALT-2) reacted with 1E9. Immunization of mice showed that the cohort immunized with BmALT-2 cleared a challenge infection with infective Brugia pahangi L3 in an accelerated manner, whereas cohorts immunized with TCTP cleared larvae with the same kinetics as in unimmunized mice. These data confirm that BmALT-2 is the antigenic target of granuloma-mediated killing of B. pahangi L3. Our findings also confirm previous studies that BmALT-2 is a potential vaccine candidate for filarial infection. Our data reinforce the work of others and also provide a possible mechanism by which immune responses to BmALT-2 may provide host protection.
Characterization of avian  T-cell subsets after Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium infection of chicks.	Avian  T lymphocytes are frequently found in blood and organs and are assumed to be crucial to the immune defense against Salmonella infections of chicks. To elucidate the so-far-unknown immunological features of subpopulations of avian  T cells in the course of infection, day-old chicks were infected orally with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium. Until 11 days after infection, the occurrence as well as transcription of the CD8 antigen and immunologically relevant protein genes of CD8(-) and CD8(+high) (CD8(+) CD8(+))  cells were analyzed using flow cytometry and quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) with blood, spleen, thymus, and cecum samples. After infection, an increased percentage of CD8(+high)  T lymphocytes was found in blood, in spleen, and, with the highest values and most rapidly, in cecum. Within the CD8(+high) subset, a significant rise in the number of CD8(+) cells was accompanied by enhanced CD8 antigen expression and reduced gene transcription of the CD8 chain. CD8(+) and CD8(+) cells showed elevated transcription for Fas, Fas ligand (FasL), interleukin-2 receptor  (IL-2R), and gamma interferon (IFN-). While the highest fold changes in mRNA levels were observed in CD8(+) cells, the mRNA expression rates of CD8(+) cells never significantly exceeded those of the CD8(+) cells. In conclusion, both CD8(+high)  T-cell subpopulations (CD8(+) and CD8(+)) might be a potential source of IFN- in Salmonella-infected chicks. However, due to their prominent frequency in blood and organs after infection, the avian CD8(+)  T-cell subset seems to be unique and of importance in the course of Salmonella Typhimurium infection of very young chicks.
Preclinical pharmacokinetics, metabolism, and toxicity of azurin-p28 (NSC745104) a peptide inhibitor of p53 ubiquitination.	Characterize the preclinical pharmacokinetics, metabolic profile, multi-species toxicology, and antitumor efficacy of azurin-p28 (NSC 745104), an amphipathic, 28 amino acid fragment (aa 50-77) of the copper containing redox protein azurin that preferentially enters cancer cells and is currently under development for treatment of p53-positive solid tumors.
Eimeria papillata: upregulation of specific miRNA-species in the mouse jejunum.	Increasing evidence indicates miRNAs as critical regulators of gene expression, but little information is available for miRNAs in intestinal diseases. Here, we investigated intestinal infections of male Balb/c mice with the coccidian parasite Eimeria papillata. On day 4 after oral infection, mice were shedding 3150  430 oocysts per gram feces. This was associated with a low inflammatory response of the jejunum of mice evidenced by histology, non-response of IL-1 mRNA, even slight downregulation of IL-6 mRNA, only slight increases in iNOS mRNA, nitrate/nitrate, malondialdehyde, and a small decrease in glutathione, respectively. Only IFN mRNA was strongly induced. Using miRNA microarray technology, there were significantly upregulated the four miRNA species miR-1959, MCMV-miR-M23-1-5P, miR-203, and miR-21 out of 634 miRNAs, which was also confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR. Our data provide evidence that E. papillata parasites are able to induce specific miRNA species in their host target organ.
Comparative aspects of murine proteinase 3.	The neutrophilic granule protein proteinase 3 (PR3) is the preferred target antigen of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) found in the serum of patients with Wegener's granulomatosis, a systemic small-vessel vasculitis. Due to the lack of data concerning the murine homologue of human PR3, we assessed the neutrophil marker polypeptide PR3 in mice by generating a murine-specific PR3 antibody. In contrast to humans, peripheral blood leukocytes are not the main resource of murine PR3. Interestingly, we could show that the mouse bone marrow is the main PR3 source, indicating that it is a large reservoir for functional neutrophils. This pool of neutrophils could be rapidly mobilized after injection of IL-8. The development of the new PR3 antibody provides a new tool for studying the maturation processes of the murine hematopoietic system and will also support the generation of infectious disease or vasculitis mouse models.
NP body domain and PB2 contribute to increased virulence of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses in chickens.	The molecular basis of pathogenicity of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses in chickens remains largely unknown. H5N1 A/chicken/Yamaguchi/7/2004 virus (CkYM7) replicates rapidly in macrophages and vascular endothelial cells in chickens, causing sudden death without fever or gross lesions, while H5N1 A/duck/Yokohama/aq10/2003 virus (DkYK10) induces high fever, severe gross lesions, and a prolonged time to death, despite the 98% amino acid identity between the two viruses. To explore the molecular basis of this difference in pathogenicity, a series of eight single-gene reassortant viruses from these HPAI viruses were compared for pathogenicity in chickens. Two reassortants possessing the NP or PB2 gene from DkYK10 in the CkYM7 background reduced pathogenicity compared to other reassortants or CkYM7. Inversely, reassortants possessing the NP or PB2 gene of CkYM7 in the DkYK10 background (rgDkYK-PB2(Ck), rgDkYK-NP(Ck)) replicated quickly and reached higher titers than DkYK10, accompanied by more rapid and frequent apoptosis of macrophages. The rgDkYK-NP(Ck) and rgDkYK-PB2(Ck) reassortants also replicated more rapidly in chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEFs) than did rgDkYK10, but replication of these viruses was similar to that of CkYM7 and DkYK10 in duck embryo fibroblasts. A comparison of pathogenicities of seven rgDkYK10 mutants with a single amino acid substitution in NP(Dk) demonstrated that valine at position 105 in the NP(Ck) was responsible for the increased pathogenicity in chickens. NP(Ck), NP(105V), and PB2(Ck) enhanced the polymerase activity of DkYK10 in CEFs. These results indicate that both NP and PB2 contribute to the high pathogenicity of the H5N1 HPAI viruses in chickens, and valine at position 105 of NP may be one of the determinants for adaptation of avian influenza viruses from ducks to chickens.
Detection of feline haemoplasma species in experimental infections by in-situ hybridisation.	The aim of this study was to use fluorescence in-situ hybridisation (FISH) to search for the tissues and cell types important in survival and persistence of Mycoplasma haemofelis, "Candidatus Mycoplasma haemominutum" or "Candidatus Mycoplasma turicensis" in infected cats. A 16S rDNA probe for each species was applied to formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded tissues sections collected from experimentally infected cats. Tissues (n=12) were collected, at necropsy, from ten cats which had been infected with M. haemofelis, and one each with "Ca. M. haemominutum" and "Ca. M. turicensis". M. haemofelis specific hybridisation was present on red blood cells (RBCs) in all tissues from acutely infected cats, but not the majority of tissues from chronically infected cats. "Ca. M. haemominutum" specific hybridisation was present on scattered RBCs within the spleen and liver. Specific probe hybridisation was not detected in any of the "Ca. M. turicensis" infected tissues. Haemoplasmas were detected on the surface of RBCs only and not any other cell type. Additionally, FISH was limited by sensitivity and could not detect the lower numbers of organisms present in tissues of cats chronically infected with M. haemofelis. Occasional organisms were detected in cats acutely infected with "Ca. M. haemominutum" but not "Ca. M. turicensis".
Streptococcus suis infection induces [corrected] bacterial accumulation in the kidney.	Although a Streptococcus suis infection was recently expanded, the study of S. suis has not had enough attention. In this study, bacterial kinetics of S. suis were investigated for seven days of infection in a mouse model. Survival rates showed that 5.010(7)CFUml(-1) of S. suis infection caused death in 30% of mice subjects. Streptococcal kinetics from 10(4) to 10(7)CFUml(-1) were detected in the brain, kidney, lung, spleen and urine two days post-infection and still detected in both kidney and urine seven days post-infection. In addition, 5.010(6)CFUml(-1) of low dose infection was conducted, showing that S. suis was detected in the kidney seven days post-infection. Expressions of virulence-associated genes (mrp, epf, sly and hyl) were evaluated and results showed that all virulence-associated genes were detected in both spleen and kidney, whereas no detectable bands in either lung and liver two days post-infection. Microscopy demonstrated that S. suis accumulated in the renal cortex side of blood vessels and renal tubules two days post-infection, while S. suis accumulated in the renal tubule seven days post-infection. This is the first report of accumulated S. suis in mice kidney during S. suis infection.
Cat genotype Tritrichomonas foetus survives passage through the alimentary tract of two common slug species.	Tritrichomonas foetus has recently been recognised as the cause of large bowel diarrhoea in cats (feline trichomoniasis), for which the epidemiology is largely unknown. We tested whether garden slugs common in Sydney, Australia can pass viable T. foetus in their faeces after oral intake. First, Leopard slugs (Limax maximus) were offered cat food with 10(4) of T. foetus per gram, 63% (5/8) of slugs consumed food with T. foetus and subsequently 20% (1/5) shed T. foetus in their faeces. Furthermore, 63% (5/8) and 75% (6/8) of the Leopard slugs and the Yellow cellar slugs (Limacus flavus) consumed food with 10(6) of T. foetus per gram and subsequently 100% (5/5) and 83% (5/6) shed T. foetus in their faeces, respectively. These results suggest that slugs may facilitate passive transmission of T. foetus between cats. We speculate that cats may become infected with T. foetus should they consume food contaminated with faeces from slug(s) infected with T. foetus.
Induction of colonic regulatory T cells by indigenous Clostridium species.	CD4(+) T regulatory cells (T(regs)), which express the Foxp3 transcription factor, play a critical role in the maintenance of immune homeostasis. Here, we show that in mice, T(regs) were most abundant in the colonic mucosa. The spore-forming component of indigenous intestinal microbiota, particularly clusters IV and XIVa of the genus Clostridium, promoted T(reg) cell accumulation. Colonization of mice by a defined mix of Clostridium strains provided an environment rich in transforming growth factor- and affected Foxp3(+) T(reg) number and function in the colon. Oral inoculation of Clostridium during the early life of conventionally reared mice resulted in resistance to colitis and systemic immunoglobulin E responses in adult mice, suggesting a new therapeutic approach to autoimmunity and allergy.
Leishmania major attenuates host immunity by stimulating local indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase expression.	Inflammation stimulates immunity but can create immune privilege in some settings. Here, we show that cutaneous Leishmania major infection stimulated expression of the immune regulatory enzyme indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase (IDO) in local lymph nodes. Induced IDO attenuated the T cell stimulatory functions of dendritic cells and suppressed local T cell responses to exogenous and nominal parasite antigens. IDO ablation reduced local inflammation and parasite burdens, as did pharmacologic inhibition of IDO in mice with established infections. IDO ablation also enhanced local expression of proinflammatory cytokines and induced some CD4(+) T cells to express interleukin (IL) 17. These findings showed that IDO induced by L. major infection attenuated innate and adaptive immune responses. Thus, IDO acts as a molecular switch regulating host responses, and IDO inhibitor drugs are a potential new approach to enhance host immunity to established leishmania infections.
Activated gammadelta T cells promote the activation of uveitogenic T cells and exacerbate EAU development.	To determine how the activation of  T cells affects the generation of uveitogenic  T cells and the development of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU).
Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator FTY720 suppresses rat experimental autoimmune prostatitis.	Experimental autoimmune prostatitis (EAP) is an autoimmune inflammatory disease of male sex accessory glands and is characterized by a cellular and humoral prostate-specific autoimmune response associated with inflammatory mononuclear cell (MNC) infiltration. EAP shares important clinical and immunological features with human chronic prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome. Using immunohistochemistry, we determined the pattern of pathological changes during rat EAP development, regarding the cellular responses and infiltration into the prostate gland, and therapeutic effect of FTY720, a modulator of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors which has shown promising protective effects in animal models and clinical trials of several autoimmune diseases. Significant accumulations of total MNCs, pan-T cells and CD8(+) cells were observed in prostatic stroma as early as 11days after autoimmune induction. However, accumulation of reactive macrophages became significant 4days later. After reaching the maximal level at Day 16, the accumulations of all the different cell populations fell back rapidly and returned to normal level by Day 35. Suppressive FTY720 significantly reduced inflammatory infiltration of different immune cell populations and tissue disruption in prostate of EAP rats. Our results therefore suggest that FTY720 might be a potential candidate for treatment of inflammatory prostatitis.
Immunogenicity and protective efficacy of a fusion protein vaccine consisting of antigen Ag85B and HspX against Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in mice.	Subunit vaccines have the potential advantage to boost Mycobacterium bovis Bacillus Calmette-Gurin (BCG)-primed immunity in adults. However, most candidates are antigens highly expressed in replicating bacilli but not in dormant or persisting bacilli, which exist during Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. We constructed M. tuberculosis fusion protein Ag85B-Mpt64(190-198) -HspX (AMH) and Ag85B-Mpt64(190-198) -Mtb8.4 (AMM), which consist of Ag85B, the 190-198 peptide of Mpt64, HspX (Rv2031c) and Mtb8.4 (Rv1174c), respectively. AMH and/or AMM were mixed with adjuvants composed of dimethyl-dioctyldecyl ammonium bromide and BCG polysaccharide nucleic acid (DDA-BCG PSN) to construct subunit vaccines. Mice were immunized thrice with Ag85B, AMH and AMM vaccines and the immunogenicity of the fusion protein vaccines was determined. Then, mice were primed with BCG and boosted twice with Ag85B, AMH, AMM and AMM+AMH vaccines, respectively, followed by challenging with M. tuberculosis virulent strain H37Rv, and the immune responses and protective effects were measured. It was found that mice immunized with AMH vaccine generated high levels of antigen-specific cell-mediated responses. Compared with the group injected only with BCG, the mice boosted with AMM, AMH and AMM+AMH produced higher levels of Ag85B-specific IgG1 and IgG2a and IFN--secreting T cells upon Ag85B and Mycobacterium tuberculosis purified protein derivative (PPD) stimulation. It is interesting that only mice boosted with AMM+AMH had significantly lower bacterial count in the lungs than those receiving BCG, whereas mice boosted with AMH or AMM did not. The results suggest that AMH consisting of HspX, the antigen highly expressed in dormant bacilli, could be combined with antigens from replicating bacilli to enhance BCG primed immunity so as to provide better protection against both growing and non-growing bacteria that occur during the infection process.
Pretreatment by low-dose fibrates protects against acute free fatty acid-induced renal tubule toxicity by counteracting PPAR deterioration.	Development of a preventive strategy against tubular damage associated with proteinuria is of great importance. Recently, free fatty acid (FFA) toxicities accompanying proteinuria were found to be a main cause of tubular damage, which was aggravated by insufficiency of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR), suggesting the benefit of PPAR activation. However, an earlier study using a murine acute tubular injury model, FFA-overload nephropathy, demonstrated that high-dose treatment of PPAR agonist (0.5% clofibrate diet) aggravated the tubular damage as a consequence of excess serum accumulation of clofibrate metabolites due to decreased kidney elimination. To induce the renoprotective effects of PPAR agonists without drug accumulation, we tried a pretreatment study using low-dose clofibrate (0.1% clofibrate diet) using the same murine model. Low-dose clofibrate pretreatment prevented acute tubular injuries without accumulation of its metabolites. The tubular protective effects appeared to be associated with the counteraction of PPAR deterioration, resulting in the decrease of FFAs influx to the kidney, maintenance of fatty acid oxidation, diminution of intracellular accumulation of undigested FFAs, and attenuation of disease developmental factors including oxidative stress, apoptosis, and NFB activation. These effects are common to other fibrates and dependent on PPAR function. Interestingly, however, clofibrate pretreatment also exerted PPAR-independent tubular toxicities in PPAR-null mice with FFA-overload nephropathy. The favorable properties of fibrates are evident when PPAR-dependent tubular protective effects outweigh their PPAR-independent tubular toxicities. This delicate balance seems to be easily affected by the drug dose. It will be important to establish the appropriate dosage of fibrates for treatment against kidney disease and to develop a novel PPAR activator that has a steady serum concentration regardless of kidney dysfunction.
Long-term mequindox treatment induced endocrine and reproductive toxicity via oxidative stress in male Wistar rats.	Mequindox (MEQ) is a synthetic antimicrobial chemical of quinoxaline 1, 4-dioxide group. This study was designed to investigate the hypothesis that MEQ exerts testicular toxicity by causing oxidative stress and steroidal gene expression profiles and determine mechanism of MEQ testicular toxicity. In this study, adult male Wistar rats were fed with MEQ for 180days at five different doses as 0, 25, 55, 110 and 275mg/kg, respectively. In comparison to control, superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced glutathione (GSH) and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels were elevated at 110 and 275mg/kg MEQ, whereas the malondialdehyde (MDA) level was slightly increase at only 275mg/kg. Furthermore, in LC/MS-IT-TOF analysis, one metabolite 2-isoethanol 4-desoxymequindox (M11) was found in the testis. There was significant decrease in body weight, testicular weight and testosterone at 275mg/kg, serum follicular stimulating hormone (FSH) at 110 and 275mg/kg, while lutinizing hormone (LH) levels were elevated at 110mg/kg. Moreover, histopathology of testis exhibited germ cell depletion, contraction of seminiferous tubules and disorganization of the tubular contents of testis. Compared with control, mRNA expression of StAR, P450scc and 17-HSD in testis was significantly decreased after exposure of 275mg/kg MEQ while AR and 3-HSD mRNA expression were significantly elevated at the 110mg/kg MEQ group. Taken together, our findings provide the first and direct evidence in vivo for the formation of free radicals during the MEQ metabolism through NO group reduction, which may have implications to understand the possible mechanism of male infertility related to quinoxaline derivatives.
Role of curcumin-dependent modulation of tumor microenvironment of a murine T cell lymphoma in altered regulation of tumor cell survival.	Using a murine model of a T cell lymphoma, in the present study, we report that tumor growth retarding action of curcumin involves modulation of some crucial parameters of tumor microenvironment regulating tumor progression. Curcumin-administration to tumor-bearing host caused an altered pH regulation in tumor cells associated with alteration in expression of cell survival and apoptosis regulatory proteins and genes. Nevertheless, an alteration was also observed in biophysical parameters of tumor microenvironment responsible for modulation of tumor growth pertaining to hypoxia, tumor acidosis, and glucose metabolism. The study thus sheds new light with respect to the antineoplastic action of curcumin against a tumor-bearing host with progressively growing tumor of hematological origin. This will help in optimizing application of the drug and anticancer research and therapy.
Quantitative trait loci that control body weight and obesity in an F2 intercross between C57BL/6J and DDD.Cg-Ay mice.	I have developed a congenic mouse strain for the A(y) allele at the agouti locus in an inbred DDD/Sgn strain, DDD.Cg-A(y). DDD.Cg-A(y) females are extremely obese and significantly heavier than B6.Cg-A(y) females. The objectives of this study were to determine the genetic basis of obesity in DDD.Cg-A(y) mice, and to determine whether or not their high body weight was due to the presence of DDD background-specific modifiers. I performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses for body weight and body mass index in two types of F(2) mice [F2 A(y) (F(2) mice carrying the A(y) allele) and F(2) non-A(y) (F2 mice without the A(y) allele)] produced by crossing C57BL/6J females and DDD.Cg-A(y) males. The results of the QTL analysis of F(2) A(y) mice were very similar to those obtained for F(2) non-A(y) mice. It was unlikely that the high body weight of DDD.Cg-A(y) mice was due to the presence of specific modifiers. When both F(2) datasets were merged and analyzed, four significant body weight QTLs were identified on chromosomes 6, 9, and 17 (2 loci) and four significant obesity QTLs were identified on chromosomes 1, 6, 9, and 17. Although the presence of DDD background-specific modifiers was not confirmed, a multifactorial basis of obesity in DDD.Cg-A(y) females was thus revealed.
Intracellular MHC class II molecules promote TLR-triggered innate immune responses by maintaining activation of the kinase Btk.	The molecular mechanisms involved in the full activation of innate immunity achieved through Toll-like receptors (TLRs) remain to be fully elucidated. In addition to their classical antigen-presenting function, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules might mediate reverse signaling. Here we report that deficiency in MHC class II attenuated the TLR-triggered production of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferon in macrophages and dendritic cells, which protected mice from endotoxin shock. Intracellular MHC class II molecules interacted with the tyrosine kinase Btk via the costimulatory molecule CD40 and maintained Btk activation, but cell surface MHC class II molecules did not. Then, Btk interacted with the adaptor molecules MyD88 and TRIF and thereby promoted TLR signaling. Therefore, intracellular MHC class II molecules can act as adaptors, promoting full activation of TLR-triggered innate immune responses.
The transcription factor E4BP4 regulates the production of IL-10 and IL-13 in CD4+ T cells.	The immunoregulatory cytokine interleukin 10 (IL-10) is expressed mainly by T helper type 2 (T(H)2) cells but also by T(H)1 cells during chronic infection. Here we observed plasticity in the expression of IL-10 and IL-13 after chronic T(H)1 stimulation; furthermore, the expression of Il10 and Il13 was regulated by the transcription factor E4BP4. Chronically stimulated E4BP4-deficient (Nfil3(-/-); called 'E4bp4(-/-)' here) T(H)1 cells, regulatory T cells (T(reg) cells) and natural killer T cells (NKT cells) had attenuated expression of IL-10 and IL-13. Enforced expression of E4bp4 initiated the production of IL-10 and IL-13 by conventional T(H)1 cells. E4bp4(-/-) T(H)2 cells showed impairment of IL-10 production with no effect on IL-13. Our results indicate that E4BP4 has multiple functions in controlling the plasticity of IL-13 in T(H)1 cells and IL-10 in T(H)1 cells, T(H)2 cells, T(reg) cells and NKT cells.
The E3 ligase Itch is a negative regulator of the homeostasis and function of hematopoietic stem cells.	Although hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the most thoroughly characterized type of adult stem cell, the intricate molecular machinery that regulates their self-renewal properties remains elusive. Here we showed that the E3 ubiquitin ligase Itch negatively regulated the development and function of HSCs. Itch(-/-) mice had HSCs with enhanced frequency, competence and long-term repopulating activity. Itch-deficient HSCs showed accelerated proliferation rates and sustained progenitor properties, as well as more signaling by the transcription factor Notch1, due to more accumulation of activated Notch1. Knockdown of Notch1 in Itch-mutant HSCs resulted in reversion of the phenotype. Thus, we identify Itch as a previously unknown negative regulator of HSC homeostasis and function.
Pre-clinical mouse models of human prostate cancer and their utility in drug discovery.	In vivo animal experiments are essential to current prostate cancer research, and are particularly critical to studying interactions between tumor cells and their microenvironment. Numerous pre-clinical animal models of prostate cancer are currently available, including transgenic mouse models and human prostate cancer xenograft mouse models. In contrast to transgenic mouse models producing more heterogeneous cohorts of tumors, xenograft mouse models provide more controlled approaches. This unit describes the detailed procedures necessary to establish several distinct pre-clinical mouse models of human prostate cancer, including an orthotopic prostate xenograft model, an orthotopic bone metastasis model, an experimental metastasis model of intra-cardiac injection, and a vossicle model of tumor-bone interaction.
Immune complex vaccines for chicken infectious anemia virus.	Infection of maternal, antibody-negative chickens with chicken infectious anemia virus (CIAV) can cause clinical disease, while infection after maternal antibodies wane often results in subclinical infection and immunosuppression. Currently, vaccines are not available for vaccination in ovo or in newly hatched chickens. Development of CIAV vaccines for in ovo use depends on the ability to generate vaccines that do not cause lesions in newly hatched chicks and that can induce an immune response regardless of maternal immunity. Immune complex (IC) vaccines have been successfully used for control of infectious bursal disease, and we used a similar approach to determine if an IC vaccine is feasible for CIAV. Immune complexes were prepared that consisted of 0.1 ml containing 10(5.4) tissue culture infective dose 50% of CIA-1 and 0.1 ml containing 10 to 160 neutralizing units (IC Positive [ICP]10 to ICP160), in which one neutralizing unit is the reciprocal of the serum dilution required to protect 50% of CU147 cells from the cytopathic effects caused by CIA-1. Virus replication was delayed comparing ICP80 and ICP160 with combinations using negative serum (IC Negative [ICN]80 or ICN160). In addition, the number of birds with hematocrit values <28% were decreased with ICP80 or ICP160 compared to ICN80 or ICN160. Seroconversion was delayed in ICP80 and ICP160 groups. To determine if ICP80 or ICN 160 protected against challenge, we vaccinated maternal, antibody-free birds at 1 day of age and challenged at 2 wk or 3 wk of age with the 01-4201 strain. Both ICP80 and ICP160 protected against replication of the challenge virus, which was measured using differential quantitative PCR with primers distinguishing between the two isolates. Thus, in principle, immune complex vaccines may offer a method to protect newly hatched chicks against challenge with field virus. However, additional studies using maternal, antibody-positive chicks in combination with in ovo vaccination will be needed to determine if immune complex vaccines will be useful to protect commercial chickens.
Compatibility of turkey herpesvirus-infectious bursal disease vector vaccine with Marek's disease rispens vaccine injected into day-old pullets.	Mixtures of turkey herpesvirus (HVT) and Rispens poultry vaccines have been used worldwide for over 20 yr, mainly for vaccination of future layers and breeders. With increasing virulence of Marek's disease (MD) virus strains, vaccination strategies are evolving toward the use of vaccines combining HVT and Rispens. A single vaccination either in ovo or at 1 day of age with the HVT + infectious bursal disease (IBD) vector vaccine is efficient against IBD. However, with vaccination programs that include a hatchery administration of the HVT + IBD vaccine, additional protection against very virulent and very virulent-plus MD viruses is needed, especially for layers and breeders. This study looked at the combination of four commercially available Rispens vaccines with the HVT + IBD vector vaccine injected at 1 day of age. MD challenge tests that were superior to 90% in relative score in all the groups vaccinated with both vaccines showed that the mixture of HVT + IBD and Rispens vaccines had no effect on clinical protection against MD, and IBD challenge tests showed that the mixture of HVT + IBD and Rispens vaccines had no effect on clinical protection against IBD, which was equal to 100% protection in all the groups vaccinated with both vaccines.
Vaccination of one-day-old broiler chicks against infectious coryza.	In order to evaluate the protection conferred by an experimental inactivated vaccine against infectious coryza, three challenge trials were undertaken using 112 1-day-old broilers. The vaccine "Hepa Inmuno NC" included bacterial antigens of Avibacterium paragallinarum (serogroups A, B, variant B, and C) as well as antigens of Newcastle virus and hepatitis virus. Fifty-six broiler chicks were vaccinated at the first day of life at the hatchery while another 56 chicks were left unvaccinated. Three infection trials were conducted simultaneously using each of the three serogroups A, B, or C of Av. paragallinarum. In each trial, 17 vaccinated and 17 unvaccinated broilers were used. Challenge was performed at day 31 of life by injection, into the left infraorbital sinus, of approximately 1 x 10(5) colony forming units of the corresponding Av. paragallinarum strain. Clinical signs were recorded on day 2 postchallenge. All broilers were euthanatized and both infraorbital sinuses were bacteriologically examined for the presence of Av. paragallinarum on day 5 postchallenge. In comparison with the unvaccinated broilers, the vaccine significantly reduced the number of broilers with clinical signs after challenge with serogroup B, and significantly fewer vaccinated broilers were positive for the presence of Av. paragallinarum after challenge with serogroup C. On the other hand, no significant protection was observed when broilers were challenged with Av. paragallinarum from serogroup A. Despite the high infection rates in vaccinated chicks after an experimental infection with Av. paragallinarum, it was possible to reduce colonization of Av. paragallinarum (serogroup B) and clinical signs (serogroup C) in broiler chicks by vaccination at the first day of life. Further cross-protection trials should be done, including other Av. paragallinarum strains in the vaccine, especially those from serogroup A.
Effects of intestinal microflora on superoxide dismutase activity in the mouse cecum.	In the antioxidant defense system, superoxide dismutase (SOD) catalyzes the breakdown of superoxide into hydrogen peroxide and oxygen. In the cecum, the influence of intestinal microflora on SOD activity is unknown. In this study, we used germ-free (GF) mice to examine the effect of intestinal microflora on SOD activity in the cecum, and SOD activity was compared between GF and conventional (CV) mice. The activity of CuZnSOD and MnSOD was determined using the SOD Assay Kit-WST. Expressions of CuZnSOD mRNA and protein were determined by real-time PCR and western blot analyses, respectively. The activities of CuZnSOD and MnSOD were significantly higher in the ceca of GF IQI and FVB/N strain mice than in CV mice (P<0.01-0.05). The gene expressions of CuZnSOD mRNA in the ceca of GF mice were significantly higher than those in CV mice (P<0.05), and CuZnSOD protein expression showed similar tendencies. Consistent with the abovementioned results, the total SOD activity in conventionalized mice decreased to the level of total SOD activity observed in the ceca of CV mice. Furthermore, no differences between GF and CV mice were observed in the SOD activities in the liver and thymus. Our results suggest that the antioxidant defense system in the mouse cecum is influenced by the intestinal microflora that downregulate SOD activity.
Combined Cerenkov luminescence and nuclear imaging of radioiodine in the thyroid gland and thyroid cancer cells expressing sodium iodide symporter: initial feasibility study.	Radioiodine (RI) such as (131)I or (124)I, can generate luminescent emission and be detected with an optical imaging (OI) device. To evaluate the possibility of a novel Cerenkov luminescence imaging (CLI) for application in thyroid research, we performed feasibility studies of CLI by RI in the thyroid gland and human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cells expressing sodium iodide symporter gene (ARO-NIS). For in vitro study, FRTL-5 and ARO-NIS were incubated with RI, and the luminometric and CLI intensity was measured with luminometer and OI device. Luminescence intensity was compared with the radioactivity measured with -counter. In vivo CLI of the thyroid gland was performed in mice after intravenous injection of RI with and without thyroid blocking. Mice were implanted with ARO-NIS subcutaneously, and CLI was performed with injection of (124)I. Small animal PET or -camera imaging was also performed. CLI intensities of thyroid gland and ARO-NIS were quantified, and compared with the radioactivities measured from nuclear images (NI). Luminometric assay and OI confirmed RI uptake in the cells in a dose-dependent manner, and luminescence intensity was well correlated with radioactivity of the cells. CLI clearly demonstrated RI uptake in thyroid gland and xenografted ARO-NIS cells in mice, which was further confirmed by NI. A strong positive correlation was observed between CLI intensity and radioactivity assessed by NI. We successfully demonstrated dual molecular imaging of CLI and NI using RI both in vitro and in vivo. CLI can provide a new OI strategy in preclinical thyroid studies.
Gene expression profiling of early-phase Sjgren's syndrome in C57BL/6.NOD-Aec1Aec2 mice identifies focal adhesion maturation associated with infiltrating leukocytes.	Despite considerable efforts, the molecular and cellular events in lacrimal gland tissues initiating inflammatory responses leading to keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS), autoimmunity, and Sjgren's syndrome (SjS) have yet to be defined. To determine whether altered glandular homeostasis occurs before the onset of autoimmunity, a temporal transcriptome study was carried out in an animal model of primary SjS.
The transcription factor NR4A1 (Nur77) controls bone marrow differentiation and the survival of Ly6C- monocytes.	The transcription factors that regulate differentiation into the monocyte subset in bone marrow have not yet been identified. Here we found that the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1 controlled the differentiation of Ly6C- monocytes. Ly6C- monocytes, which function in a surveillance role in circulation, were absent from Nr4a1-/- mice. Normal numbers of myeloid progenitor cells were present in Nr4a1-/- mice, which indicated that the defect occurred during later stages of monocyte development. The defect was cell intrinsic, as wild-type mice that received bone marrow from Nr4a1-/- mice developed fewer patrolling monocytes than did recipients of wild-type bone marrow. The Ly6C- monocytes remaining in the bone marrow of Nr4a1-/- mice were arrested in S phase of the cell cycle and underwent apoptosis. Thus, NR4A1 functions as a master regulator of the differentiation and survival of 'patrolling' Ly6C- monocytes.
A tumor-related lymphoid progenitor population supports hierarchical tumor organization in canine B-cell lymphoma.	Tumors have heterogeneous properties, which could be explained by the existence of hierarchically and biologically distinct tumor cells such as tumor-initiating cells (TICs). This model is clinically important, as TICs are promising targets for cancer therapies. However, TICs in spontaneous B-cell lymphoma have not been conclusively identified.
Serial transfer of a transplantable tumor: implications for Marek's vaccine mechanisms.	The mechanism of Marek's disease (MD) vaccination to prevent the lymphoproliferative disease in chickens is not well understood. It is generally recognized that vaccination prevents disease, including the induction of T-cell tumors, but it does not prevent the pathogenic virus from infecting and replicating in the vaccinated host, nor does it prevent bird to bird spread of the oncogenic virus. The stage at which the vaccinated immune system intervenes in the process from infection to the induction of tumors remains obscure. Using a transplantable tumor induced by the Md5 strain of MD virus (MDV), we show that CVI988 vaccination does not prevent the induction of transplantable tumors in the 15I(5) x 7(1) chicken line. A monoclonal tumor with a V beta 1 T-cell receptor spectratype of 207 base pairs was used to follow the transplantable tumor in serial passages in vivo. This transplantable tumor could be passed in vaccinated birds. The length of time between vaccination and challenge (5 to 12 days) had little or no influence on the ability to transfer the tumor. There was variability in the manifestation of the disease produced by the transplanted tumor. Some chickens presented as normal but were still capable of transmitting the transplanted tumor to newly vaccinated recipients via their blood. This indicates that some chickens can control, but not eliminate, the tumor. The variables inducing health or disease in the challenged chickens remain obscure, but environmental or other factors likely depress the immune system allowing the tumor to overwhelm the immune system.
Development and maintenance of a specific pathogen-free (SPF) zebrafish research facility for Pseudoloma neurophilia.	Pseudoloma neurophilia (Microsporidia) is very common in zebrafish Danio rerio research facilities. A new zebrafish facility has been established at the Sinnhuber Aquatic Resource Laboratory (SARL), Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR, U.S.A., and this was an opportunity to establish a specific pathogen-free (SPF) colony of zebrafish for this microsporidium. Progeny from 9 zebrafish lines (n=2203) were initially transferred to the SARL facility in 2007 following PCR screening of broodstock and a subpopulation of progeny (258 of 1000 fish from each family). Screening of fish for P. neurophilia within the facility was conducted as follows: (1) Moribund or dead fish were examined by histology. (2) Each line was regenerated on a 4 mo rotation, and a subsample of each of these major propagations (60 fry, in pools of 10) was PCR-screened at 10 d post hatch. (3) Adult fish (approximately 1 yr old) from each line were euthanized; 20 fish were examined by histology and the brains of another 60 fish (in pools of 5) were screened by PCR. (4) This screening was replicated on sentinel fish held in 4 tanks receiving effluent water from all tanks in the facility (20 fish per tank). (5) Four-month old fish (n=760) from a toxicology study conducted within the laboratory were examined by histology. To date, we have evaluated 2800 fish by PCR and 1222 fish by histology without detecting P. neurophilia. Thus, we have established 9 lines of zebrafish SPF for P. neurophilia. However, 26 fish exhibited mycobacteriosis, with acid-fast bacteria present in tissue sections, and 49 other fish had incidental lesions.
Expression of the blood-group-related glycosyltransferase B4galnt2 influences the intestinal microbiota in mice.	Glycans on mucosal surfaces have an important role in host-microbe interactions. The locus encoding the blood-group-related glycosyltransferase -1,4-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 2 (B4galnt2) is subject to strong selective forces in natural house-mouse populations that contain a common allelic variant that confers loss of B4galnt2 gene expression in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. We reasoned that altered glycan-dependent intestinal host-microbe interactions may underlie these signatures of selection. To determine whether B4galnt2 influences the intestinal microbial ecology, we profiled the microbiota of wild-type and B4galnt2-deficient siblings throughout the GI tract using 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing. This revealed both distinct communities at different anatomic sites and significant changes in composition with respect to genotype, indicating a previously unappreciated role of B4galnt2 in host-microbial homeostasis. Among the numerous B4galnt2-dependent differences identified in the abundance of specific bacterial taxa, we unexpectedly detected a difference in the pathogenic genus, Helicobacter, suggesting Helicobacter spp. also interact with B4galnt2 glycans. In contrast to other glycosyltransferases, we found that the host intestinal B4galnt2 expression is not dependent on presence of the microbiota. Given the long-term maintenance of alleles influencing B4galnt2 expression by natural selection and the GI phenotypes presented here, we suggest that variation in B4galnt2 GI expression may alter susceptibility to GI diseases such as infectious gastroenteritis.
Vaccination with inactivated or live-attenuated chimeric PCV1-2 results in decreased viremia in challenge-exposed pigs and may reduce transmission of PCV2.	The objectives were to determine transmissibility of PCV2 to nave contact pigs 140 days after infection of resident pigs and the benefit of vaccination with live-attenuated or inactivated chimeric PCV2 vaccines on chronic PCV2 infection. Twelve 6-week old PCV2 nave pigs were randomly divided into four groups of three pigs: negative controls, positive controls, and pigs vaccinated with either a live-attenuated or inactivated chimeric PCV1-2 vaccine. All animals were bled weekly and tested for anti-PCV2 antibodies and PCV2 and PCV1-2 DNA and all groups except negative controls were challenged at 10 weeks. Two pigs vaccinated with the live PCV2 vaccine were PCV1-2 viremic at a single observation point. Both vaccine regimens induced an anti-PCV2 antibody response which was detected sooner and reached a higher level with the commercial inactivated vaccine. Both vaccines significantly decreased the concentration and duration of PCV2 viremia compared to the positive controls. PCV2 DNA was detected in lymphoid tissues of 1/3 pigs in the live-attenuated vaccine group and 3/3 positive control pigs. Three, 2-week old, PCV2 nave contact pigs were comingled with each group at 168 days post-vaccination or 140 days post-challenge. After seven days of co-housing, the resident pigs were removed and the contact pigs remained for six weeks. Evidence of chimeric PCV1-2 vaccine or PCV2 challenge virus transmission to nave contact pigs was lacking in all groups. The results of this study suggest that 140-day closure of a small pig population in a controlled environment may result in stabilization and elimination of PCV2.
Mesenchymal stem cells administered after liver transplantation prevent acute graft-versus-host disease in rats.	Acute graft-versus-host disease is a serious and life-threatening complication of liver transplantation (LT) that occurs in 1% to 2% of liver allograft recipients. It is associated with a high mortality rate, and effective therapies are lacking. In our established rat model, a relative decrease in regulatory T cells (Tregs) was previously shown to be associated with acute graft-versus-host disease after liver transplantation (LT-aGVHD). Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been used to treat graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, and they have been shown to induce Tregs, which have immunomodulatory effects. In this study, when a treatment with donor- or recipient-derived MSCs was administered from day 8 to day 14 after the typical symptoms of LT-aGVHD started, the recipients were not cured, and their survival time was not prolonged. However, when MSCs of different origins were administered from day 0 to day 6 after LT, the recipients survived significantly longer than the control group, and the surviving MSC-treated rats did not show typical LT-aGVHD symptoms. In vivo tracings of carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester-stained MSCs did not show significant accumulations in the target organs after administration. Flow cytometry analysis showed that the Treg ratios in peripheral blood were more higher for the MSC-treated groups versus the control group. More immunohistochemically stained forkhead box P3-positive cells were also found in the intestines of the MSC-treated groups versus the control group. Further investigations of the function of MSCs showed that they could increase the Treg ratio in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) and lead to a greater reduction in MLR proliferation in vitro. In conclusion, the post-LT administration of MSCs of either donor or recipient origin could prevent the onset of LT-aGVHD in our rat model.
Studies on the pathogenesis of a Chinese strain of bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 infection in Balb/c mice.	To date, three genotypes A, B, and C of bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (BPIV3) have been isolated from cattle and only limited studies on the pathogenesis of the genotype A of BPIV3 infection in calves and laboratory animals have been conducted. The pathogenesis of the genotypes B and C of BPIV3 infection in calves and laboratory animals have not been reported. To alleviate the difficulties associated with sourcing suitable calves for infection studies, the establishment of BPIV3 infection model using laboratory model animals could aid in increasing the knowledge of the pathogenesis of this virus. Therefore thirty Balb/c mice were intranasally inoculated with a Chinese BPIV3 strain SD0835 which was classified as genotype C. Virus replications in mice were demonstrated by using virus isolation and titration, immunofluorescent staining, and immunohistochemistry and had occurred in the respiratory tissues as early as 24h after intranasal inoculation. The results of immunofluorescent staining and IHC implicated that the lungs and tracheas might be the major tissues in which the SD0835 infected and replicated. The histopathologic examinations revealed that alveoli septa thickening and focal cellulose pneumonia were seen in the lungs of experimentally infected mice. The aforementioned results indicated that the SD0835 of the genotype C was pathogenic to Balb/c mice and the mouse infection model could cast light on the genotype C of BPIV3 infection process and pathogenesis.
Comparative evaluation of live marker vaccine candidates "CP7_E2alf" and "flc11" along with C-strain "Riems" after oral vaccination.	Due to the tremendous socio-economic impact of classical swine fever (CSF) outbreaks, emergency vaccination scenarios are continuously under discussion. Unfortunately, all currently available vaccines show restrictions either in terms of marker capacities or immunogenicity. Recent research efforts were therefore directed at the design of new modified live marker vaccines. Among the most promising candidates the chimeric pestiviruses "CP7_E2alf" and "flc11" were identified. Within an international research project, these candidates were comparatively tested in challenge experiments after a single oral vaccination. Challenge infection was carried out with highly virulent CSF virus strain "Koslov", 14 or 21 days post vaccination (dpv), respectively. Safety, efficacy, and marker potential were addressed. All assessments were done in comparison with the conventional "gold standard" C-strain "Riems" vaccine. In addition to the challenge trials, multiple vaccinations with both candidates were performed to further assess their marker vaccine potential. All vaccines were safe and yielded full protection upon challenge 21 days post vaccination. Neither serological nor virological investigations showed major differences among the three vaccines. Whereas CP7_E2alf also provided clinical protection upon challenge at 14 days post vaccination, only 50% of animals vaccinated with flc11, and 83% vaccinated with C-strain "Riems" survived challenge at this time point. No marked differences were seen in protected animals. Despite the fact that all multiple-vaccinated animals stayed sero-negative in the accompanying marker test, the discriminatory assay remains a weak point due to delayed or inexistent detection of some of the vaccinated and subsequently infected animals. Nevertheless, the potential as live marker vaccines could be confirmed for both vaccine candidates. Future efforts will therefore be directed at the licensing of "Cp7_E2alf" as the first live marker vaccine for CSF.
Enhanced expression of TGF protein in lymphoid organs and lung, but not in serum, of pigs infected with a European field isolate of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus.	Transforming growth factor  (TGF) is an immunomodulatory cytokine which is able to modulate the host immune response eliciting an inefficient response against pathogens. In this sense, the role of this cytokine in porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) has been poorly studied and the reported results are contradictory. Thus, in the present study, the expression of TGF was analysed both at tissue (lymphoid organs and lung) and serum level to study its correlation with the expression of PRRS virus (PRRSV). To carry out this study, 32 pigs were inoculated with the European PRRSV field isolate 2982 and sequentially killed from 0 dpi to the end of the study (24 dpi). Blood and tissue samples were collected to determine the expression of PRRSV and TGF. PRRSV was detected in inoculated animals from 3 dpi until the end of the study, however TGF was not detected in sera from inoculated animals. Contrary, an increase of TGF antigen was observed both in the lymphoid organs and in the lung of PRRSV-inoculated pigs when compared with control group. Since TGF play a role as an immunomodulatory cytokine of the immune response and also in the differentiation of regulatory T cells (Tregs), the upregulation of the TGF at tissue level may play a role in the impairment of the host immune response observed during PRRS, being observed a significant correlation between PRRSV and TGF expression at lung level.
Transforming growth factor-1 promotes nasal mucosal mast cell chemotaxis in murine experimental allergic rhinitis.	Recent studies have shown that transforming growth factor-(1) (TGF-(1)) plays an important role in the progression of allergic diseases.
HemoHIM ameliorates the persistent down-regulation of Th1-like immune responses in fractionated -irradiated mice by modulating the IL-12p70-STAT4 signaling pathway.	Whole body irradiated mice appear to experience a down-regulation of the helper T (Th)1-like immune response, and maintain a persistent immunological imbalance. In the current study, we evaluated the effect of HemoHIM (an herbal product made from Angelica Radix,  Cnidium officinale , and  Paeonia japonica  cultivated in Korea) to ameliorate the immunological imbalance induce in fractionated -irradiated mice. The mice were exposed to  rays twice a week (0.5 Gy fractions) for a total dose of 5 Gy, and HemoHIM was administrated orally from 1 week before the first irradiation to 1 week before the final analysis. All experiments were performed 4 and 6 months after their first exposure. HemoHIM ameliorated the Th1- and Th2-related immune responses normally occur in irradiated mice with or without dinitrophenylated keyhole limpet hemocyanin immunization. HemoHIM also restored the natural killer cell activities without changing the percentage of natural killer cells in irradiated mice. Furthermore, the administration of HemoHIM prevented the reduction in levels of interleukin-12p70 in irradiated mice. Finally, we found that HemoHIM enhanced the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 4 that was reduced in irradiated mice. Our findings suggest that HemoHIM ameliorates the persistent down-regulation of Th1-like immune responses by modulating the IL-12p70/pSTAT4 signaling pathway.
Synthetic curcumin analog EF31 inhibits the growth of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma xenografts.	Objectives are to examine the efficacy, pharmacokinetics, and toxicology of a synthetic curcumin analog EF31 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The synthesis of EF31 was described for the first time. Solubility of EF24 and EF31 was compared using nephelometric analysis. Human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma Tu212 xenograft tumors were established in athymic nude mice and treated with EF31 i.p. once daily five days a week for about 5-6 weeks. The long term effect of EF31 on the NF-B signaling system in the tumors was examined by Western blot analysis. EF31 at 25 mg kg(-1), i.p. inhibited tumor growth almost completely. Solubilities of EF24 and EF31 are <10 and 13 g mL(-1) or <32 and 47 M, respectively. The serum chemistry profiles of treated mice were within the limits of normal, they revealed a linear increase of C(max). EF31 decreased the level of phosphorylation of NF-B p65. In conclusion, the novel synthetic curcumin analog EF31 is efficacious in inhibiting the growth of Tu212 xenograft tumors and may be useful for treating head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The long term EF31 treatment inhibited NF-B p65 phosphorylation in xenografts, implicating downregulation of cancer promoting transcription factors such as angiogenesis and metastasis.
TRIM28 prevents autoinflammatory T cell development in vivo.	TRIM28 is a component of heterochromatin complexes whose function in the immune system is unknown. By studying mice with conditional T cell-specific deletion of TRIM28 (CKO mice), we found that TRIM28 was phosphorylated after stimulation via the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) and was involved in the global regulation of CD4(+) T cells. The CKO mice had a spontaneous autoimmune phenotype that was due in part to early lymphopenia associated with a defect in the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2) as well as incomplete cell-cycle progression of their T cells. In addition, CKO T cells showed derepression of the cytokine TGF-3, which resulted in an altered cytokine balance; this caused the accumulation of autoreactive cells of the T(H)17 subset of helper T cells and of Foxp3(+) T cells. Notably, CKO Foxp3(+) T cells were unable to prevent the autoimmune phenotype in vivo. Our results show critical roles for TRIM28 in both T cell activation and T cell tolerance.
Translational control of the activation of transcription factor NF-B and production of type I interferon by phosphorylation of the translation factor eIF4E.	Type I interferon is an integral component of the antiviral response, and its production is tightly controlled at the levels of transcription and translation. The eukaryotic translation-initiation factor eIF4E is a rate-limiting factor whose activity is regulated by phosphorylation of Ser209. Here we found that mice and fibroblasts in which eIF4E cannot be phosphorylated were less susceptible to virus infection. More production of type I interferon, resulting from less translation of Nfkbia mRNA (which encodes the inhibitor IB), largely explained this phenotype. The lower abundance of IB resulted in enhanced activity of the transcription factor NF-B, which promoted the production of interferon- (IFN-). Thus, regulated phosphorylation of eIF4E has a key role in antiviral host defense by selectively controlling the translation of an mRNA that encodes a critical suppressor of the innate antiviral response.
Tissue-specific differentiation of a circulating CCR9- pDC-like common dendritic cell precursor.	The ontogenic relationship between the common dendritic cell (DC) progenitor (CDP), the committed conventional DC precursor (pre-cDC), and cDC subpopulations in lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues has been largely unraveled. In contrast, the sequential steps of plasmacytoid DC (pDC) development are less defined, and it is unknown at which developmental stage and location final commitment to the pDC lineage occurs. Here we show that CCR9(-) pDCs from murine BM which enter the circulation and peripheral tissues have a common DC precursor function in vivo in the steady state, in contrast to CCR9(+) pDCs which are terminally differentiated. On adoptive transfer, the fate of CCR9(-) pDC-like precursors is governed by the tissues they enter. In the BM and liver, most transferred CCR9(-) pDC-like precursors differentiate into CCR9(+) pDCs, whereas in peripheral lymphoid organs, lung, and intestine, they additionally give rise to cDCs. CCR9(-) pDC-like precursors which are distinct from pre-cDCs can be generated from the CDP. Thus, CCR9(-) pDC-like cells are novel CDP-derived circulating DC precursors with pDC and cDC potential. Their final differentiation into functionally distinct pDCs and cDCs depends on tissue-specific factors allowing adaptation to local requirements under homeostatic conditions.
Divergent transcriptional programming of class-specific B cell memory by T-bet and ROR.	Antibody class defines function in B cell immunity, but how class is propagated into B cell memory remains poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that memory B cell subsets unexpectedly diverged across antibody class through differences in the effects of major transcriptional regulators. Conditional genetic deletion of the gene encoding the transcription factor T-bet selectively blocked the formation and antigen-specific response of memory B cells expressing immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) in vivo. Cell-intrinsic expression of T-bet regulated expression of the transcription factor STAT1, steady-state cell survival and transcription of IgG2a-containing B cell antigen receptors (BCRs). In contrast, the transcription factor ROR and not T-bet was expressed in IgA(+) memory B cells, with evidence that knockdown of ROR mRNA expression and chemical inhibition of transcriptional activity also resulted in lower survival and BCR expression of IgA(+) memory B cells. Thus, divergent transcriptional regulators dynamically maintain subset integrity to promote specialized immune function in class-specific memory B cells.
A quantitative approach to assess the potency of skin sensitizers in the elicitation phase.	The concept that thresholds exist for the induction of allergic contact dermatitis by chemicals with skin sensitizing properties has been used for a quantitative risk assessment approach. In this approach the potency of skin sensitizers as determined in the Local Lymph Node Assay is used to calculate the threshold for induction of sensitization. These are then used to estimate safe exposure levels for consumers. Whether these exposure levels will protect subjects that are already sensitized is unknown. The elicitation of allergic contact dermatitis supposedly occurs above a certain threshold as well and this threshold is most likely lower than that for the induction. It is unclear if induction thresholds can be extrapolated to elicitation thresholds. The aim of this study was to assess the potency of sensitizers with different sensitizing potencies in the elicitation phase in a mouse model for elicitation. Mice were sensitized by topical application on days 0 and 7 using equipotent concentrations of oxazolone, 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and eugenol to ensure that the sensitization strength would not influence the elicitation potency. Mice were challenged on day 21 by topical application on the ears in a dose-dependent manner and dose-response data were used to calculate the elicitation potency. Unexpectedly, sensitizers with different sensitizing potencies induced not the same dose-response curves in sensitized mice. The most potent sensitizer in the elicitation phase was oxazolone, followed by DNCB and eugenol. Similar to the induction phase, under equipotent sensitization conditions strong sensitizers such as oxazolone and DNCB elicit allergic reactions at lower concentrations than weak sensitizers such as eugenol. Our results indicate that elicitation thresholds cannot be readily deduced from sensitization thresholds.
New pathogenetic characters of reticuloendotheliosis virus isolated from Chinese partridge in specific-pathogen-free chickens.	Avian reticuloendotheliosis virus (REV) infection can induce a runting syndrome, immunosuppression, acute reticulum cell neoplasia and lymphomas in a variety of domestic and wild birds. To evaluate the pathogenicity and oncogenicity of REV-JX0927 that isolated from Chinese partridge, experimental inoculated day-old specific-pathogen-free (SPF) White Leghorn chickens were examined at regular intervals. The examination procedures included hematology, serology and histopathology; also including immunohistochemistry and apoptosis assay. Body weight, relative immune organs weight and apoptosis assay results revealed that the immunosuppression of infected birds is associated with apoptosis of lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues, especially in thymus induced by REV-JX0927. Hematology and apoptosis assay results showed that the 7th week of post-infection is a critical time point for lymphocytes to be transformed into tumor cells. Histopathology evidences demonstrated that REV-JX0927 induced reticuloendotheliosis at early stage (1 week), and lymphosarcomas at middle stage (after 7 weeks). In addition, squamous-cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma and aneurysm were found in infected birds. Arteritis was associated with concentration of serum protein and fat. REV antigen expression was observed in infected birds through the experimental period. REV has high tropism for proventriculus, kidney, liver, lymphoid tissues, pancreas, lymphosarcoma cells and blood vessels. Data from this study showed that several new pathogenitic characters caused by REV-JX0927 were observed. It indicated that REV-JX0927 is a multipotential oncogenic retrovirus.
Leishmania donovani recombinant iron superoxide dismutase B1 protein in the presence of TLR-based adjuvants induces partial protection of BALB/c mice against Leishmania major infection.	In this study, we tested the protective efficacy of recombinant Leishmania donovani iron superoxide dismutase B1 (SODB1) against Leishmania major infection in BALB/c mice. Mice were challenged with L. major 3weeks after the second boost immunization with rSODB1 alone or in the presence of adjuvants. Injection of BALB/c mice with rSODB1 alone elicited both humoral and cellular immune responses. Administration of rSODB1 with CpG ODN or GLA-SE (a synthetic toll-like receptor 4 agonist) adjuvant resulted in the induction of anti-SODB1 IgG1, and more importantly of significantly high levels of IgG2a isotype. Immunization of mice with rSODB1 alone or with adjuvant induced the production of IFN- by splenocytes in response to stimulation with L. major soluble leishmanial antigens (SLA). Moreover, immunization protocols involving rSODB1 resulted in a significant decrease in IL-10 as compared to controls. The presence of CpG ODN or GLA-SE adjuvant in the immunization protocols resulted in a relative increase in IFN- in response to stimulation with rSODB1 in comparison to immunization with rSODB1 alone. Mice immunized with rSODB1 plus CpG ODN or GLA-SE, were able to partially control their Leishmania infections, as indicated by the reduction in footpad swelling and parasite numbers, compared to controls. These results suggest that immunization with recombinant SODB1 protein together with CpG ODN or GLA-SE can be potential vaccine candidate against leishmaniasis.
Recombinant thioredoxin peroxidase from Cryptosporidium parvum has more powerful antioxidant activity than that from Cryptosporidium muris.	Cryptosporidium parvum can survive exposure to harsh environmental conditions, various disinfectants, and high doses of -irradiation. In an animal study, more than 25kGy of -irradiation was necessary to eliminate C. parvum infectivity from mice. In contrast, Cryptosporidium muris (murine Cryptosporidium), which lives in stomach epithelium, lost its infectivity in mice with 1kGy of -irradiation. Recently, it was found that thioredoxin peroxidase was highly expressed in C. parvum oocysts irradiated with high doses of -irradiation. Therefore we hypothesize that antioxidant activity of the thioredoxin peroxidase is involved in the radioresistance of C. parvum. To verify this, thioredoxin peroxidases of C. parvum (CpTPx) and C. muris (CmTPx) were expressed in Escherichia coli cells, and their antioxidant activities were compared. Both CpTPx and CmTPx belong to the 2-Cys family of peroxiredoxins. Hydrogen peroxide consumption was approximately 2- to 12-fold greater in recombinant CpTPx (rCpTPx) than in recombinant CmTPx (rCmTPx) in the presence of 0.2mM dithioerythritol or glutathione (GSH), respectively. The peroxidase activity of rCpTPx was highly enhanced by GSH, but that of rCmTPx was not. The minimum dose of rCpTPx required to protect supercoiled plasmid DNA from damage by metal-catalyzed oxidation was only 12% of that required with rCmTPx. The results showed that rCpTPx has more powerful antioxidant activity than rCmTPx. Further investigations on the role of CpTPx in the radioresistance of C. parvum are warranted.
Fetal rat metabonome alteration by prenatal caffeine ingestion probably due to the increased circulatory glucocorticoid level and altered peripheral glucose and lipid metabolic pathways.	The aims of this study were to clarify the metabonome alteration in fetal rats after prenatal caffeine ingestion and to explore the underlying mechanism pertaining to the increased fetal circulatory glucocorticoid (GC). Pregnant Wistar rats were daily intragastrically administered with different doses of caffeine (0, 20, 60 and 180 mg/kg) from gestational days (GD) 11 to 20. Metabonome of fetal plasma and amniotic fluid on GD20 were analyzed by H nuclear magnetic resonance-based metabonomics. Gene and protein expressions involved in the GC metabolism, glucose and lipid metabolic pathways in fetal liver and gastrocnemius were measured by real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Fetal plasma metabonome were significantly altered by caffeine, which presents as the elevated - and -glucose, reduced multiple lipid contents, varied apolipoprotein contents and increased levels of a number of amino acids. The metabonome of amniotic fluids showed a similar change as that in fetal plasma. Furthermore, the expressions of 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (11-HSD-2) were decreased, while the level of blood GC and the expressions of 11-HSD-1 and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) were increased in fetal liver and gastrocnemius. Meanwhile, the expressions of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), IGF-1 receptor and insulin receptor were decreased, while the expressions of adiponectin receptor 2, leptin receptors and AMP-activated protein kinase 2 were increased after caffeine treatment. Prenatal caffeine ingestion characteristically change the fetal metabonome, which is probably attributed to the alterations of glucose and lipid metabolic pathways induced by increased circulatory GC, activated GC metabolism and enhanced GR expression in peripheral metabolic tissues.
Use of specific-pathogen-free (SPF) rhesus macaques to better model oral pediatric cytomegalovirus infection.	Congenital human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection can result in lifelong neurological deficits. Seronegative pregnant woman often acquire primary HCMV from clinically asymptomatic, but HCMV-shedding children.
Antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for detection of different H5 avian Influenza A virus.	Avian Influenza A virus (AIV) subtype H5 is divided into American and Eurasian lineages, according to hemagglutinin gene sequences. Although methods for detecting H5 AIVs have been described, no H5 strain-specific detection method has been reported. The purpose of the present study was to develop an antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE) to detect and differentiate between the American and the Eurasian H5 AIVs. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the HA fragment of a Eurasian H5N2 AIV were used as the capture antibodies as well as the detector antibodies after labeling with horseradish peroxidase to develop an ACE. One mAb was selected for detecting the American as well as the Eurasian H5 AIVs. The other mAb was used for detecting only the Eurasian H5N2 but not the American H5N2 AIVs, H6N1 AIVs, or Newcastle disease virus. The ACEs developed would be useful for detection and differentiation of H5 AIVs from the Eurasian and the American H5 AIVs.
Encephalitozoonosis in pharmacologically immunosuppressed mice.	Encephalitozoon cuniculi is a parasite that has been identified as a cause of opportunistic infections in immunocompromised individuals. This study was performed to evaluate E. cuniculi infection in pharmacologically immunosuppressed mice. Mice were immunosuppressed with cyclophosphamide (100mg/kg twice a week, IP) or cyclosporin (10mg/kg daily, IP) and inoculated with 10(7)E. cuniculi spores IP. The E. cuniculi spores were cultivated in MDCK cells. E. cuniculi identification was performed by light microscopy studies using Gram-Chromotrope, Hematoxylin-Eosin and Toluidine blue-fuchsin staining techniques, as well as by PCR at 15, 30 and 45 days post-inoculation (DPI). Cyclophosphamide-immunosuppressed mice have greatly reduced amounts of CD8(+), CD4(+) and CD3(+) T cells and CD19(+) B cells. The cells from these mice were analyzed by FACS and showed acute disseminated and fatal encephalitozoonosis. Mice treated with ciclosporin, which is both antiparasitic and immunosuppressive, have a milder, chronic, non-lethal infection and showed a significant reduction only in CD3(+) and CD4(+) T cell numbers. Our results support the role of CD8(+) T cells in controlling infection by E. cuniculi and show that preventive measures are essential for preventing this zoonosis in individuals undergoing chemotherapy for cancer or other immunosuppressive therapies.
Characterization of Schistosoma japonicum estrogen-related receptor beta like 1 and immunogenicity analysis of the recombinant protein.	The estrogen-related receptor beta like 1 (EsRRBL1) is a sex hormone receptor. Here, we describe the cloning and expression of the EsRRBL1 gene from Schistosoma japonicum (SjEsRRBL1). Quantitative real time PCR (qPCR) and Western blot analysis revealed that SjEsRRBL1 was highly expressed in 14-, 18-, 23- and 28-days-old schistosomes at the transcriptional and protein levels, when the schistosomes were undergoing early development of reproductive organs, male and female coupling, and egg-laying. qPCR also showed that schistosomula isolated from a S. japonicum-susceptible mouse host had 3- to 4-fold higher expression of SjEsRRBL1 than that from the S. japonicum non-permissive Microtus fortis host or the non-susceptible rat host. Moreover, SjEsRRBL1 expression was 2-fold higher in schistosomula from female mice than that from male mice. Western blot analysis revealed that rSjEsRRBL1 had good antigenicity. After immunization of BALB/c mice with recombinant (r)SjEsRRBL1, partial and significantly protective efficacy was observed in two independent trials (30.84% and 30.70% worm reduction; 35.39% and 35.61% liver eggs reduction), as compared with the blank control group. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) showed that mice vaccinated with rSjEsRRBL1 produced increased levels of specific IgG, IFN- and IL-4, but a reduced IgG1/IgG2a ratio, as compared to the adjuvant control group and the blank control group, suggesting that rSjEsRRBL1 vaccination could induce a mixed Th1/Th2 response. The results suggested that SjEsRRBL1 might be a critical regulator of schistosome development and represent a promising vaccine target for schistosomiasis.
Protocatechuic acid, a new active substance against the challenge of avian infectious bursal disease virus.	The present study aims to investigate the potential antiviral activity of protocatechuic acid (PCA) and its mechanism against infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) infection. In the curative test, dosages of PCA of 40, 20, and 10 mg/kg, the survival rate was 90, 90, and 60%, respectively, and the BW gain was 36.63, 31.85, and 51.8%, respectively. The survival rate for the Astragalus polysaccharide (ASP) group was significantly lower than those of the birds treated with 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg of PCA. The bursa indeces of chickens in 40 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, and ASP groups were significantly higher than that of the infection group, whereas a significant increase of the spleen index was found in birds with 20 mg/kg PCA in comparison with other challenged groups. The birds treated with 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid also showed slightly higher levels of IBDV clearance in the bursa of Fabricius. Furthermore, the chickens treated with 20 mg/kg of PCA induced a significant lymphocyte proliferation and a significant increase in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio in comparison with the ASP chickens. These results imply that chickens treated with 20 mg/kg of PCA for 5 d could effectively induce active nonspecific immune responses against the IBDV infection.
Evaluation of modified vaccinia virus Ankara expressing VP2 protein of infectious bursal disease virus as an immunogen in chickens.	A recombinant modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) virus expressing mature viral protein 2 (VP2) of the infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) was constructed to develop MVA-based vaccines for poultry. We demonstrated that this recombinant virus was able to induce a specific immune response by observing the production of anti-IBDV-seroneutralizing antibodies in specific pathogen-free chickens. Besides, as the epitopes of VP2 responsible to induce IBDV-neutralizing antibodies are discontinuous, our results suggest that VP2 protein expressed from MVA-VP2 maintained the correct conformational structure. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the usefulness of MVA-based vectors for developing recombinant vaccines for poultry.
Dietary rice bran component -oryzanol inhibits tumor growth in tumor-bearing mice.	We investigated the effects of rice bran and components on tumor growth in mice.
Effect of zhuhong ointment on renal antioxidant capability in skin ulcer model rats]	To study the effect of repeated administration of Zhuhong ointment on renal antioxidant capability of ulcerous skin in rats, in order to further discuss the mechanism of mercury contained in Zhuhong ointment on the antioxidant capability of kidney in skin ulcer rats.
Coumarins from Skimmia arborescens and its anti-inflammatory effect]	To investigate chemical constituents contained in Skimmia arborescens. The chemical constituents were separated by silica gel column chromatography, pharmadex LH-20, RP-C18, and 1H, 13C-NMR spectroscopic analysis were employed for the structural elucidation. Six coumarin compounds were separated from S. arborescens. Their structures were elucidated as umbelliferone (1), scopoletin (2), scopolin (3), nodakenetin (4), skimmin (5), 6, 7-dimethoxycoumarin (6), and all compounds were separated from the plant for the first time. Using the model of ear swelling caused by xylol of mice, the anti-inflammatory effect of its total extract was evaluated. The result indicated that middle and high dose groups of its total extract could obviously inhibit the ear swelling caused by xylol of mice.
Effects of huannao yicong formula extract on behavior and ultrastructure of hippocampus mitochondria of APP transgenic mice of different months]	To study the effects of Huannao Yicong formula (HNYCF) extract on behavior and ultrastructure of mitochondria in hippocampus CA1 area of APP transgenic mice of different months, and explore its partial mechanism in treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) through the perspective of energy metabolism.
Determination of brucine and strychnine in rat after cutaneous administration of semen strychni niosome gel by LC-MS/MS]	A sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) method has been developed and validated for the determination of brucine and strychnine in rat plasma.
Impact of intestinal microbiota on intestinal luminal metabolome.	Low-molecular-weight metabolites produced by intestinal microbiota play a direct role in health and disease. In this study, we analyzed the colonic luminal metabolome using capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry with time-of-flight (CE-TOFMS) -a novel technique for analyzing and differentially displaying metabolic profiles- in order to clarify the metabolite profiles in the intestinal lumen. CE-TOFMS identified 179 metabolites from the colonic luminal metabolome and 48 metabolites were present in significantly higher concentrations and/or incidence in the germ-free (GF) mice than in the Ex-GF mice (p < 0.05), 77 metabolites were present in significantly lower concentrations and/or incidence in the GF mice than in the Ex-GF mice (p < 0.05), and 56 metabolites showed no differences in the concentration or incidence between GF and Ex-GF mice. These indicate that intestinal microbiota highly influenced the colonic luminal metabolome and a comprehensive understanding of intestinal luminal metabolome is critical for clarifying host-intestinal bacterial interactions.
Gut immune maturation depends on colonization with a host-specific microbiota.	Gut microbial induction of host immune maturation exemplifies host-microbe mutualism. We colonized germ-free (GF) mice with mouse microbiota (MMb) or human microbiota (HMb) to determine whether small intestinal immune maturation depends on a coevolved host-specific microbiota. Gut bacterial numbers and phylum abundance were similar in MMb and HMb mice, but bacterial species differed, especially the Firmicutes. HMb mouse intestines had low levels of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, few proliferating T cells, few dendritic cells, and low antimicrobial peptide expression--all characteristics of GF mice. Rat microbiota also failed to fully expand intestinal T cell numbers in mice. Colonizing GF or HMb mice with mouse-segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) partially restored T cell numbers, suggesting that SFB and other MMb organisms are required for full immune maturation in mice. Importantly, MMb conferred better protection against Salmonella infection than HMb. A host-specific microbiota appears to be critical for a healthy immune system.
Serum kinetics, distribution and excretion of silver in rabbits following 28 days after a single intravenous injection of silver nanoparticles.	Serum kinetics, tissue distribution, and excretion of citrate-coated silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) were investigated in rabbits (n = 4) up to 28 days after a single intravenous injection. Following a single injection of AgNPs, the AUC(last) was reported to be 3.65  0.68 gday/ml in 5 mg/kg-treated group and 0.90  0.16 gday/ml in 0.5 mg/kg-treated group, respectively. The accumulation of silver was observed in all the tested organs including liver, kidney, spleen, lung, brain, testis, and thymus at 1 day, 7 day, and 28 day of measurement. The liver and spleen seemed to be the major targets because of high accumulation of silver. Excretion via feces and urine was also monitored during the entire experimental period. Unexpectedly, much more excretion of silver occurred via feces than through urine after an intravenous injection, which suggests biliary excretion of AgNPs. General toxicity was analyzed and histopathological changes were also evaluated.
Recombinant porcine norovirus identified from piglet with diarrhea.	Noroviruses (NoVs) are members of the family Caliciviridae and are emerging enteric pathogens of humans and animals. Some porcine NoVs are genetically similar to human strains and are classified into GII, like most epidemic human NoVs. So far, PoNoV have been exclusively detected in fecal samples of adult pig without clinical signs.
Critical role of gut microbiota in the production of biologically active, free catecholamines in the gut lumen of mice.	There is increasing interest in the bidirectional communication between the mammalian host and prokaryotic cells. Catecholamines (CA), candidate molecules for such communication, are presumed to play an important role in the gut lumen; however, available evidence is limited because of the lack of actual data about luminal CA. This study evaluated luminal CA levels in the gastrointestinal tract and elucidated the involvement of gut microbiota in the generation of luminal CA by comparing the findings among specific pathogen-free mice (SPF-M), germ-free mice (GF-M), and gnotobiotic mice. Substantial levels of free dopamine and norepinephrine were identified in the gut lumen of SPF-M. The free CA levels in the gut lumen were lower in GF-M than in SPF-M. The majority of CA was a biologically active, free form in SPF-M, whereas it was a biologically inactive, conjugated form in GF-M. The association of GF-M with either Clostridium species or SPF fecal flora, both of which have abundant -glucuronidase activity, resulted in the drastic elevation of free CA. The inoculation of E. coli strain into GF-M induced a substantial amount of free CA, but the inoculation of its mutant strain deficient in the -glucuronidase gene did not. The intraluminal administration of DA increased colonic water absorption in an in vivo ligated loop model of SPF-M, thus suggesting that luminal DA plays a role as a proabsorptive modulator of water transport in the colon. These results indicate that gut microbiota play a critical role in the generation of free CA in the gut lumen.
siRNA-mediated knockdown of two tyrosinase genes from Schistosoma japonicum cultured in vitro.	The cross-linking process of eggshell proteins in helminths is dependent on the activities of tyrosinases (TYRs), which can be inhibited by phenol oxidase inhibitors. Two genes encoding TYRs, SjTYR1 and SjTYR2, have been identified in Schistosoma japonicum. In this study, siRNA-mediated RNA interference (RNAi) was performed to silence these two SjTYR genes to evaluate their roles in eggshell formation. The effects of individual or double knockdown of the SjTYR genes were compared by determining SjTYR1/SjTYR2 transcript levels, enzyme activities, and by observing the morphology and amounts of intrauterine eggs. Results showed that SjTYR transcript levels were significantly reduced on the 3rd day post-RNAi. Significant reductions in TYR enzyme activities, as well as obvious changes in morphology and the number of intrauterine eggs followed the reductions in SjTYR transcript levels. On the 8th day after simultaneous knockdown of both SjTYR genes, which effected a 40% reduction in SjTYR1 transcript level and a 59% reduction in SjTYR2 transcript level, we observed an 80% reduction in diphenol oxidase (DPO) activity of TYRs, and a 74% reduction in the number of normal eggs in female uteri. Knockdown of both SjTYR genes has a greater effect than single knockdown of the SjTYR genes. These results demonstrate that both SjTYRs play an important role in eggshell sclerotization of S. japonicum, and that their enzyme activities depend on the transcript levels of two SjTYR genes.
The protective immune response against Pseudorabies virus induced by DNA vaccination is impaired if the plasmid harbors a functional Porcine circovirus type 2 rep and origin of replication.	A plasmid rendered replicative in mammalian cells by inserting the Porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) origin of replication and replicase gene (Ori-rep) has been previously constructed. The aim of the present study was to evaluate if the replication capacity of this plasmid could be advantageously used to improve the protective immunity induced by DNA vaccination. In this case we used the porcine Pseudorabies virus (PrV) DNA vaccination model. The replicative capacity of the DNA vaccine did not improve the protective immunity against PrV in pigs, but on the contrary the presence of the PCV2 Ori-rep sequence was harmful in the induction of this immunity compared to an equivalent but non-replicative DNA vaccine. In addition, the distribution and the persistence of the replicative and non-replicative plasmids inside the body were the same. This is the first study showing an in vivo deleterious effect of the replicative active PCV2 Ori-rep on the natural and specific protection against PrV infection.
Recombinant chimeric vaccine composed of PRRSV antigens and truncated Pseudomonas exotoxin A (PE-K13).	A Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE-KDEL)-based chimeric subunit vaccine system was recently developed using a reverse vaccinology technique. In this study, the plasmids containing PE-PRRS chimeric subunits were constructed that composed of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) antigen moieties, a ligand moiety and a Pseudomonas exotoxin A deleted domain III (PE (III)), and a carboxyl terminal moiety that includes a polypeptide with amino acid sequence KDEL (K3). The PE-PRRS combination vaccine can effectively induce not only PRRSV-specific INF- cellular immunity but also a slow-reacting and complement-requiring type serum neutralizing antibody in pigs. In a specific pathogen free (SPF) pig challenge model, body temperature (colonic temperature), occurrence of PRRSV viremia, nasal excretions, gross and histopathological appearances of pneumonia, and serum antibody activity (IFA and SN) titers significantly differed between the immunized group and the control group. The survey showed that a 0.3mg/dose PE-PRRS vaccine formula conferred protection against PRRSV. A field trial of PE-PRRS vaccine was performed to study the immune response of pregnant sows after vaccination in a PRRSV persist farm. The RT-PCR analysis of viremia and serological titers showed that the PE-PRRS vaccine not only increased sow reproductive performance and evoked its immune response to PRRS viremia, it also activated maternal immune protections to prevent piglets from inflicting viremia. In conclusion, we developed a novel and effective PRRS cytotoxic T-cells (CTLs)-based vaccine containing Pseudomonas exotoxin (PE-KDEL) carrier in combination with PRRSV conserved epitopes against PRRS virus.
CD4 T cell-intrinsic IL-2 signaling differentially affects Th1 and Th17 development.	IL-2 signaling is involved in clonal expansion of antigen-specific CD4 T cells. IL-2 is also reported to promote Th1 but inhibit Th17 differentiation, although in vivo relevance remains unclear. In addition, IL-2-dependent Foxp3+ CD4 Tregs suppress T cell proliferation, complicating the in vivo role of IL-2 in the development of Th cell responses. To elucidate the roles of cell-intrinsic IL-2 signaling in CD4 T cells, we cotransferred TCR-Tg CD4 T cells from IL-2R (CD25)-deficient and WT mice and analyzed development of antigen-specific Th1 and Th17 responses. It was revealed that Th17 development of antigen-specific CD4 T cells was largely unaffected, whereas Th1 development was impaired by the lack of IL-2 signaling. Similar data were obtained from mixed BM chimera experiments using BM cells from CD25-deficient and WT mice. In addition, although in vitro blockade of IL-2 during Th17 development greatly increased the percentages of Th17 cells, it did not affect their numbers, indicating that in vitro Th17 development is also IL-2-independent. Th1 development was dependent on IL-2 in vitro as well. Thus, our data suggest that cell-intrinsic IL-2 signaling is critical for Th1 development but plays a limited role in Th17 development in vitro as well as in vivo. 
Evaluation of recombinant forms of the shiga toxin variant Stx2eB subunit and non-toxic mutant Stx2e as vaccine candidates against porcine edema disease.	Porcine edema disease (ED) is a communicable disease of shoats caused by infection with Shiga toxin (Stx)-producing Escherichia coli. Stx2e is classified as a 1A5B-type toxin and is a decisive virulence determinant of ED. The single A subunit of Stx2e possesses enzymatic activity and is accompanied by a pentamer of B subunits, which binds to the host receptor and delivers the A subunit into the cell. In the present study, we used a mouse model to evaluate the immunogenicity of 3 ED vaccine candidates: a non-toxic mutant holotoxin mStx2e and 2 Stx2eB-based fusion proteins, Stx2eA2B-His and Stx2eB-His. Systemic inoculation of mice with mStx2e- and the Stx2eB-derived antigens induced anti-Stx2e IgG responses that were fully and partially capable of neutralizing Stx2e cellular cytotoxicity, respectively. Intranasal immunization with mStx2e protected the mice from subsequent intraperitoneal challenge with a lethal dose of Stx2e, whereas immunization with Stx2eA2B-His and Stx2eB-His afforded partial protection. Analysis of serum cytokines revealed that mStx2e, but not the Stx2eB-based antigens, was capable of inducing a Th2-type immune response. These results suggest that although the Stx2eB-based antigens elicited an immune response to Stx2e, they did so through a different mechanism to the Th2-type response induced by mStx2e. 
Gestational exposure of mice to secondhand cigarette smoke causes bronchopulmonary dysplasia blocked by the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine.	Cigarette smoke (CS) exposure during gestation may increase the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD)-a developmental lung condition primarily seen in neonates that is characterized by hypoalveolarization, decreased angiogenesis, and diminished surfactant protein production and may increase the risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Herniation of duodenum into the right ventral hepatic peritoneal cavity with groove formation at the ventral hepatic surface in a 2-week-old chicken.	Internal hernia in avian species is very rare. A necropsy of a 2-week-old SPF White Leghorn chicken revealed that a loop of the duodenum and part of the pancreas (4  2  1 cm) was protruding through the abnormal foramen (2.5 cm in diameter) in the right posthepatic septum into the right ventral hepatic peritoneal cavity. The herniated loop was located underneath the ventral hepatic surface, leaving a groove on the right hepatic lobe (2  1.5  0.4 cm). The part of the pancreas involved in the hernia was grossly enlarged. Microscopically, a zone of pressure atrophy of hepatic tissue was characterized by crowdedness of hepatocytes with pyknotic nuclei and faint eosinophilic cytoplasm and indistinct narrow sinusoids. The pancreas revealed hypertrophy of the acinar cells with an increase in the secretory granules and basophilic cytoplasm. This is the first report of duodenum herniation into the right ventral hepatic peritoneal cavity resulting in groove formation on the ventral hepatic surface in a 2-week-old chicken. 
The use of alternative polyadenylation sites renders integrin 1 (Itgb1) mRNA isoforms with differential stability during mammary gland development.	Integrins are heterodimeric cell-surface adhesion receptors that play a critical role in tissue development. Characterization of the full-length mRNA encoding the 1 subunit (Itgb1) revealed an alternative functional cleavage and polyadenylation site that yields a new Itgb1 mRNA isoform 578 bp shorter than that previously reported. Using a variety of experimental and bioinformatic approaches, we found that the two Itgb1 isoforms are expressed at different levels in a variety of mouse tissues, including the mammary gland, where they are differentially regulated at successive developmental stages. The longer mRNA species is prevelant during lactation, whereas the shorter is induced after weaning. In 3D cultures, where expression of integrin 1 protein is required for normal formation of acini, experimental blockade of the longer isoform induced enhanced expression of the shorter species which allowed normal morphological mammary differentiation. The short isoform lacks AU-rich motifs and miRNA target sequences that are potentially implicated in the regulation of mRNA stability and translation efficiency. We further determined that the AU-binding protein HuR appears to selectively stabilize the longer isoform in the mammary gland. In summary, the results of the present study identify a new regulatory instance involved in the fine-tuning of Itgb1 expression during mammary gland development and function.
Transplacental transmission of cutaneous Leishmania mexicana strain in BALB/c mice.	The vertical transmission of leishmaniasis has been reported in species that cause visceral leishmaniasis. However, this condition has scarcely been documented in species that cause cutaneous leishmaniasis. The aim of this study was to determine experimentally whether L. mexicana is transmitted vertically. A control group of BALB/c mice and a group infected with L. mexicana were mated, the gestation was monitored, and females were killed before delivery. Four resorptions (P = 0.023) and eight fetal deaths (P = 0.010) were observed in the infected female group; furthermore, the offspring body weight of the infected group was lower than the body weight of the healthy group (P = 0.009). DNA amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) revealed that all placentas and maternal spleens as well as 39 of 110 fetal spleens obtained from the offspring of infected mothers tested positive for Leishmania. In conclusion, L. mexicana is transmitted transplacentally and causes fetal death, resorption, and reduction in offspring body weight.
Primary vascularization of allografts governs their immunogenicity and susceptibility to tolerogenesis.	We investigated the influence of allograft primary vascularization on alloimmunity, rejection, and tolerance in mice. First, we showed that fully allogeneic primarily vascularized and conventional skin transplants were rejected at the same pace. Remarkably, however, short-term treatment of mice with anti-CD40L Abs achieved long-term survival of vascularized skin and cardiac transplants but not conventional skin grafts. Nonvascularized skin transplants triggered vigorous direct and indirect proinflammatory type 1 T cell responses (IL-2 and IFN-), whereas primarily vascularized skin allografts failed to trigger a significant indirect alloresponse. A similar lack of indirect alloreactivity was also observed after placement of different vascularized organ transplants, including hearts and kidneys, whereas hearts placed under the skin (nonvascularized) triggered potent indirect alloresponses. Altogether, these results suggest that primary vascularization of allografts is associated with a lack of indirect T cell alloreactivity. Finally, we show that long-term survival of vascularized skin allografts induced by anti-CD40L Abs was associated with a combined lack of indirect alloresponse and a shift of the direct alloresponse toward a type 2 cytokine (IL-4, IL-10)-secretion pattern but no activation/expansion of Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells. Therefore, primary vascularization of allografts governs their immunogenicity and tolerogenicity. 
Critical role of p38 and GATA3 in natural helper cell function.	Natural helper (NH) cells, a member of Lin(-)IL-2R(+)IL-7R(+)IL-25R(+)IL-33R(+)GATA3(+) group 2 innate lymphoid cell subset, are characterized by the expression of transcription factors GATA3 and ROR and production of large amounts of Th2 cytokines such as IL-5, IL-6, and IL-13 upon IL-33 stimulation or a combination of IL-2 and IL-25. We have studied the signal transduction pathways critical for the cytokine expression and development of NH cell. Either stimulation with IL-33 or a combination of IL-2 and IL-25 induced p38 activation and phosphorylation of GATA3 in NH cells, and the phosphorylated form of GATA3 bound to the IL-5 and IL-13 promoters. All these events were blocked by SB203580, a p38 inhibitor. Inhibition of p38 also blocked IL-6 production. The mature NH cells lacking Gata3 were impaired in the proliferation and production of IL-5 and IL-13, but not IL-6, indicating that both p38 and GATA3 are critical for the proliferation and production of IL-5 and IL-13 and that the mechanisms downstream of p38 differ between IL-6 and IL-5/IL-13. In contrast, the NH cells lacking ROR showed no impairment in the proliferation and cytokine production, indicating that GATA3 but not ROR plays a pivotal role in the effector functions of mature NH cell. However, deletion of either GATA3 or ROR in hematopoietic stem cells severely blocked the development into NH cells. Our results demonstrate the important roles of p38 and GATA3 in NH cell functions. 
Induction of activation-induced cytidine deaminase-targeting adaptor 14-3-3 is mediated by NF-B-dependent recruitment of CFP1 to the 5'-CpG-3'-rich 14-3-3 promoter and is sustained by E2A.	Class switch DNA recombination (CSR) crucially diversifies Ab biologic effector functions. 14-3-3 specifically binds to the 5'-AGCT-3' repeats in the IgH locus switch (S) regions. By interacting directly with the C-terminal region of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), 14-3-3 targets this enzyme to S regions to mediate CSR. In this study, we showed that 14-3-3 was expressed in germinal center B cells in vivo and induced in B cells by T-dependent and T-independent primary CSR-inducing stimuli in vitro in humans and mice. Induction of 14-3-3 was rapid, peaking within 3 h of stimulation by LPSs, and sustained over the course of AID and CSR induction. It was dependent on recruitment of NF-B to the 14-3-3 gene promoter. The NF-B recruitment enhanced the occupancy of the CpG island within the 14-3-3 promoter by CFP1, a component of the COMPASS histone methyltransferase complex, and promoter-specific enrichment of histone 3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3), which is indicative of open chromatin state and marks transcription-competent promoters. NF-B also potentiated the binding of B cell lineage-specific factor E2A to an E-box motif located immediately downstream of the two closely-spaced transcription start sites for sustained 14-3-3 expression and CSR induction. Thus, 14-3-3 induction in CSR is enabled by the CFP1-mediated H3K4me3 enrichment in the promoter, dependent on NF-B and sustained by E2A.
Cellular and molecular requirements for the selection of in vitro-generated CD8 T cells reveal a role for Notch.	Differentiation of CD8 single-positive (SP) T cells is predicated by the ability of lymphocyte progenitors to integrate multiple signaling cues provided by the thymic microenvironment. In the thymus and the OP9-DL1 system for T cell development, Notch signals are required for progenitors to commit to the T cell lineage and necessary for their progression to the CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive (DP) stage of T cell development. However, it remains unclear whether Notch is a prerequisite for the differentiation of DP cells to the CD8 SP stage of development. In this study, we demonstrate that Notch receptor-ligand interactions allow for efficient differentiation and selection of conventional CD8 T cells from bone marrow-derived hematopoietic stem cells. However, bone marrow-derived hematopoietic stem cells isolated from Itk(-/-)Rlk(-/-) mice gave rise to T cells with decreased IFN- production, but gained the ability to produce IL-17. We further reveal that positive and negative selection in vitro are constrained by peptide-MHC class I expressed on OP9 cells. Finally, using an MHC class I-restricted TCR-transgenic model, we show that the commitment of DP precursors to the CD8 T cell lineage is dependent on Notch signaling. Our findings further establish the requirement for Notch receptor-ligand interactions throughout T cell differentiation, including the final step of CD8 SP selection.
Cholinergic receptors modulate immune complex-induced inflammation in vitro and in vivo.	Cholinergic neural output has been shown to modulate innate immune responses to infection, injury and ischemia through stimulation of 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (7nAChR) on mononuclear phagocytes. We tested the hypothesis that cholinergic neurotransmitters, similar to those released through activation of a neural reflex, regulate responses to products of the adaptive immune system, specifically immune complex (IC)-mediated activation of effector cells. In this study, we show that stimulation of 7nAChR on human polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) and blood mononuclear phagocytes in vitro attenuates C5aR- and FcR-triggered generation of reactive oxygen species, expression of leukocyte markers involved in cell recruitment and adhesion, and release of TNF- and other proinflammatory cytokines. We show that this pathway is operative in vivo. Ligation of cholinergic receptors blunts IC-triggered responses in the reverse peritoneal Arthus reaction in mice. The selective 7nAChR agonist GTS21 decreased PMN accumulation and release of cytokines and chemokines at sites of IC deposition. In addition, mice lacking 7nAChR had exaggerated responses to reverse peritoneal Arthus reaction characterized by increased infiltration of PMNs and elevated of levels of TNF- and CXCL1 in peritoneal fluid compared with wild-type mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that cholinergic output has the potential to exert tonic inhibitory activity that dampens responses to ICs and C5a and thus may be a target to minimize tissue damage in autoimmune diseases. 
Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri infection activates colonic Foxp3+ T cells enhancing their capacity to prevent colitis.	Helminthic infections protect mice from colitis in murine models of inflammatory bowel disease and also may protect people. Helminths like Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri can induce regulatory T cells (Treg). Experiments explored whether H. polygyrus bakeri infection could protect mice from colitis through activation of colonic Treg and examined mechanisms of action. We showed that H. polygyrus bakeri infection increased the number of T cells expressing Foxp3 in the colon. More importantly, Foxp3(+)/IL-10(-) and Foxp3(+)/IL-10(+) T cell subsets isolated from the colon of H. polygyrus bakeri-infected mice prevented colitis when adoptively transferred into a murine model of inflammatory bowel disease, whereas Treg from uninfected mice could not provide protection. Only the transferred colonic Foxp3(+)/IL-10(-) T cells from H. polygyrus bakeri-infected mice readily accumulated in the colon and mesenteric lymph nodes of recipient mice, and they reconstituted the Foxp3(+)/IL-10(-) and Foxp3(+)/IL-10(+) T cell subsets. However, transferred Foxp3(+)/IL-10(+) T cells disappeared. IL-10 expression by Foxp3(+) T cells was necessary for colitis prevention. Thus, H. polygyrus bakeri infection activates colonic Foxp3(+) T cells, making them highly regulatory. The Foxp3(+) T cells that fail to express IL-10 may be critical for populating the colon with the Foxp3(+)/IL-10(+) T cells, which are required to control colitis.
CCL19 and CCL28 augment mucosal and systemic immune responses to HIV-1 gp140 by mobilizing responsive immunocytes into secondary lymph nodes and mucosal tissue.	Induction of broad and potent neutralizing Abs at the mucosal portals of entry remains a primary goal for most vaccines against mucosally acquired viral infections. Selection of appropriate adjuvants capable of promoting both systemic and mucosal responses will be crucial for the development of effective immunization strategies. In this study, we investigated whether plasmid codelivery of cytokines APRIL, CCL19, or CCL28 can enhance Ag-induced immune responses to HIV-1 gp140. Our results demonstrated that pCCL19 and pCCL28, but not pAPRIL, significantly enhanced Ag-specific systemic and mucosal Ab responses. gp140-specific Abs in serum enhanced by pCCL19 or pCCL28 were broadly distributed across all four IgG subclasses, of which IgG1 was predominant. The enhanced systemic and mucosal Abs showed increased neutralizing activity against both homologous and heterologous HIV-1, and potency correlated with gp140-specific serum IgG and vaginal IgA levels. Measurement of gp140-specific cytokines produced by splenocytes demonstrated that pCCL19 and pCCL28 augmented balanced Th1/Th2 responses. pCCL19 and pCCL28 also increased IgA(+) cells in colorectal mucosal tissue. pCCL19 codelivery resulted in an increase of CCR7(+) CD11c(+) cells in mesenteric lymph nodes and both CCR7(+) CD11c(+) cells and CCR7(+) CD3e(+) cells in spleen, whereas pCCL28 codelivery resulted in an augment of CCR10(+) CD19(+) cells in both spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes. Together, our data indicate that pCCL19 and pCCL28 can enhance HIV-1 envelope-specific systemic and mucosal Ab responses, as well as T cell responses. Such enhancements appear to be associated with mobilization of responsive immunocytes into secondary lymphoid organs and mucosal tissues through interactions with corresponding receptors.
Betaine protects against high-fat-diet-induced liver injury by inhibition of high-mobility group box 1 and Toll-like receptor 4 expression in rats.	Previous studies have shown that betaine prevents alcohol-induced liver injury and improves liver function. The purpose of this study was to investigate the hepatoprotective effects of betaine on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and to observe changes of HMGB1/TLR4 signaling.
Prototypic long pentraxin PTX3 is present in breast milk, spreads in tissues, and protects neonate mice from Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection.	Newborns and infants present a higher susceptibility to infection than adults, a vulnerability associated with deficiencies in both the innate and adaptive immune systems. Innate immune receptors are sensors involved in the recognition and elimination of microbes that play a pivotal role at the interface between innate and adaptive immunity. Pentraxin 3 (PTX3), the prototypic long pentraxin, is a soluble pattern recognition receptor involved in the initiation of protective responses against selected pathogens. Because neonates are generally resistant to these pathogens, we suspected that PTX3 may be provided by a maternal source during the early life times. We observed that human colostrum contains high levels of PTX3, and that mammary epithelial cell and CD11b(+) milk cells constitutively produce PTX3. Interestingly, PTX3 given orally to neonate mice was rapidly distributed in different organs, and PTX3 ingested during lactation was detected in neonates. Finally, we observed that orally administered PTX3 provided protection against Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in neonate mice. Therefore, breastfeeding constitutes, during the early life times, an important source of PTX3, which actively participates in the protection of neonates against infections. In addition, these results suggest that PTX3 might represent a therapeutic tool for treating neonatal infections and support the view that breastfeeding has beneficial effects on the neonates' health. 
Allergens as immunomodulatory proteins: the cat dander protein Fel d 1 enhances TLR activation by lipid ligands.	Allergic responses can be triggered by structurally diverse allergens. Most allergens are proteins, yet extensive research has not revealed how they initiate the allergic response and why the myriad of other inhaled proteins do not. Among these allergens, the cat secretoglobulin protein Fel d 1 is a major allergen and is responsible for severe allergic responses. In this study, we show that similar to the mite dust allergen Der p 2, Fel d 1 substantially enhances signaling through the innate receptors TLR4 and TLR2. In contrast to Der p 2, however, Fel d 1 does not act by mimicking the TLR4 coreceptor MD2 and is not able to bind stably to the TLR4/MD2 complex in vitro. Fel d 1 does, however, bind to the TLR4 agonist LPS, suggesting that a lipid transfer mechanism may be involved in the Fel d 1 enhancement of TLR signaling. We also show that the dog allergen Can f 6, a member of a distinct class of lipocalin allergens, has very similar properties to Fel d 1. We propose that Fel d 1 and Can f 6 belong to a group of allergen immunomodulatory proteins that enhance innate immune signaling and promote airway hypersensitivity reactions in diseases such as asthma. 
Caspase-1 deficient mice are more susceptible to influenza A virus infection with PA variation.	Reassortment within polymerase genes causes changes in the pathogenicity of influenza A viruses. We previously reported that the 2009 pH1N1 PA enhanced the pathogenicity of seasonal H1N1. We examined the effects of the PA gene from the HPAI H5N1 following its introduction into currently circulating seasonal influenza viruses.
Effect of hypochlorite-based disinfectants on inactivation of murine norovirus and attempt to eliminate or prevent infection in mice by addition to drinking water.	We evaluated the in vitro efficacy of weak acid hypochlorous solution (WAHS) against murine norovirus (MNV) by plaque assay and compared the efficacy with diluted NaOCl (Purelox) and 70% ethanol. WAHS was as effective as 70% ethanol and diluted Purelox for 0.5-min reactions. For 0.5-min reactions in the presence of mouse feces emulsion, the efficacy of WHAS and 1:600 diluted Purelox was decreased, reducing the virus titers by 2.3 and 2.6 log10, respectively, while 70% ethanol reduced the titer by more than 5 log10. However, WAHS showed more than 5 log10 reductions for the 5-min reaction even in the presence of feces emulsion. Since WAHS showed enough efficacy in inactivating MNV in vitro, we tried to eliminate MNV from MNV-infected mice by substituting WAHS for their drinking water. However, MNV was found to be positive in feces of mice drinking WAHS by an RT-nested PCR and plaque assay. To investigate whether hypochlorite-based disinfectants could prevent infection of a mouse with MNV, WAHS or 1:6,000 diluted Purelox was substituted for the drinking water of mice for 2 or 4 weeks, and then the mice were placed in a cage with an MNV-infected mouse. The supply of disinfectants was continued after cohabitation, but MNV was detected in the feces of all the mice at 1 week after cohabitation. In this study, we tried to eliminate and prevent MNV infection from mice by supplying hypochlorite-based disinfectants as an easy and low-cost method. Unfortunately, drinking disinfectants was ineffective, so it is important to keep the facility environment clean by use of effective disinfectants. Also, animals introduced into facilities should be tested as MNV free by quarantine and periodically confirmed as MNV free by microbiological monitoring. 
Suppression of PTRF alleviates the polymicrobial sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture in mice.	Sepsis and sepsis-associated organ failure are devastating conditions. Understanding the detailed cellular/molecular mechanisms involved in sepsis should lead to the identification of novel therapeutic targets.
Therapeutic effect of oncolytic adenovirus expressing relaxin in radioresistant oral squamous cell carcinoma.	Radioresistance is one of the main determinants of treatment outcome in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), and treatment of radioresistant OSCC is difficult due to cross resistance to other conventional treatments. We aimed to identify whether genetically modified oncolytic adenovirus expressing relaxin (RLX), which affects collagen metabolism, can effectively inhibit growth of the radioresistant OSCC. Therapeutic effect of oncolytic adenovirus was compared between radiosensitive and radioresistant OSCC cell lines in vitro and in vivo, and spread of adenovirus throughout the tumor mass was verified by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Oncolytic adenovirus effectively killed cancer cells and there was no significant difference in the cytotoxic effect between radiosensitive and radioresistant OSCC cell lines. In animal experiments, the adenovirus significantly reduced the size of tumor, and there was no significant difference between radiosensitive and radioresistant OSCC. In IHC, RLX expressing adenovirus showed better proliferation and eliminated collagens more effectively compared to RLX nonexpressing adenovirus. These findings suggested that genetically modified oncolytic adenovirus can effectively inhibit growth of the radioresistant OSCC and might be a new therapeutic option in radioresistant OSCC. 
The viral chemokine MCK-2 of murine cytomegalovirus promotes infection as part of a gH/gL/MCK-2 complex.	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) forms two gH/gL glycoprotein complexes, gH/gL/gO and gH/gL/pUL(128,130,131A), which determine the tropism, the entry pathways and the mode of spread of the virus. For murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV), which serves as a model for HCMV, a gH/gL/gO complex functionally homologous to the HCMV gH/gL/gO complex has been described. Knock-out of MCMV gO does impair, but not abolish, virus spread indicating that also MCMV might form an alternative gH/gL complex. Here, we show that the MCMV CC chemokine MCK-2 forms a complex with the glycoprotein gH, a complex which is incorporated into the virion. We could additionally show that mutants lacking both, gO and MCK-2 are not able to produce infectious virus. Trans-complementation of these double mutants with either gO or MCK-2 showed that both proteins can promote infection of host cells, although through different entry pathways. MCK-2 has been extensively studied in vivo by others. It has been shown to be involved in attracting cells for virus dissemination and in regulating antiviral host responses. We now show that MCK-2, by forming a complex with gH, strongly promotes infection of macrophages in vitro and in vivo. Thus, MCK-2 may play a dual role in MCMV infection, as a chemokine regulating the host response and attracting specific target cells and as part of a glycoprotein complex promoting entry into cells crucial for virus dissemination. 
Protective effect of amifostine on high-dose methotrexate-induced small intestinal mucositis in mice.	Amifostine has been shown to be capable of minimizing radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis, but whether it protects small intestinal mucosae from high-dose methotrexate-induced damage is presently unknown.
2-3 Sialic acid glycoconjugate loss and its effect on infection with Toxoplasma parasites.	Recognition of sialylated glycoconjugates is important for host cell invasion by Apicomplexan parasites. Toxoplasma gondii parasites penetrate host cells via interactions between their microneme proteins and sialylated glycoconjugates on the surface of host cells. However, the role played by sialic acids during infection with T. gondii is not well understood. Here, we focused on the role of 2-3 sialic acid linkages as they appear to be widely expressed in vertebrates. Removal of 2-3 sialic acid linkages on macrophages by neuraminidase treatment did not influence the rate of infection or growth of T. gondii, nor did it affect phagocytosis in vitro. Sialyltransferase ST3Gal-I deficient mice (ST3Gal-I(-/-) mice) lost 2-3 sialic acid linkages in macrophages and spleen cells. The numbers of T. gondii-infected CD11b(+) cells in peritoneal cavities of the infected ST3Gal-I(-/-) mice were relatively lower than those of the infected wild type animals. In addition, CD8(+) T cell populations and numbers in the spleens and peritoneal cavities of the ST3Gal-I(-/-) mice were significantly lower than those in the wild type animals before and after the T. gondii infection. ST3Gal-I(-/-) mice had severe liver damage and reduced survival rates following peritoneal infection with T. gondii. Furthermore, adoptive transfer of immune CD8(+) cells from wild type mice to ST3Gal-I(-/-) mice increased their survival during infection with T. gondii. Our data show that parasite invasion via 2-3 sialic acid linkages might not contribute on host survival and indicate the impact that loss of 2-3 sialic acid linkages has on CD8(+) T cell populations, which are necessary for effective immune responses against infection with T. gondii. 
Thymoquinone inhibits cell proliferation through regulation of G1/S phase cell cycle transition in N-nitrosodiethylamine-induced experimental rat hepatocellular carcinoma.	Dysregulated cell proliferation and tumorigenesis is frequently encountered in several cancers including hepatocellular carcinogenesis (HCC). Thus, agents that inhibit cell proliferation and restrain hepatic tumorigenesis through cell cycle regulation have a beneficial effect in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinogenesis. The present study was aimed to investigate the efficacy of thymoquinone (TQ), an active compound derived from the medicinal plant Nigella sativa, on N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) [0.01% in drinking water for 16 weeks]-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in experimental rats. After experimental period, the hepatic nodules, liver injury markers and tumor markers levels were substantially increased in NDEA induced liver tumors in rats. However, TQ (20mg/kg body weight) treatment greatly reduced liver injury markers and decreased tumor markers and prevented hepatic nodule formation and reduced tumor multiplicity in NDEA induced hepatic cancer bearing rats and this was evident from argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region (AgNORs) staining. Moreover, the uncontrolled cell proliferation was assessed by specific cell proliferative markers [proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki67] by immunofluorescence, immunoblot and analysis of mRNA expression. Simultaneously, we assessed the activity of TQ on G1/S phase cell cycle regulation with specific cell cycle proteins (p21(WAF1/CIP1), CDK4, Cyclin D1 and Cyclin E) by immunoprecipitation in experimental rats. Treatment with TQ significantly reduced the detrimental alterations by abrogating cell proliferation, which strongly induced G1/S arrest in cell cycle transition. In conclusion, our results suggest that TQ has a potent anti proliferative activity by regulating the G1/S phase cell cycle transition and exhibit a beneficial role in the treatment of HCC. 
Mesenchymal stromal cell turnover in the normal adult lung revisited.	We have employed a simple and robust noninvasive method of continuous in vivo long-term bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling to analyze lung mesenchymal stromal cell turnover in adult mice in the steady state. Mathematical modeling of BrdU uptake in flow cytometrically sorted CD45(neg)CD31(neg)Sca-1(pos) lung cells following long-term feeding of BrdU to mice in their drinking water reveals that lung mesenchymal stromal cells cycle continuously throughout life. Analysis of BrdU incorporation during long-term feeding and during chasing (delabeling) following replacement of BrdU-water with normal water shows that the CD45(neg)CD31(neg)Sca-1(pos) lung mesenchymal stromal cell compartment turns over at a rate of 2.26% per day with a time to half-cycled of 44 days, an estimated cell proliferation rate of 0.004/day, and a cell death rate of 0.018/day. 
Maternal CD4 and CD8 T cell tolerance towards a fetal minor histocompatibility antigen in T cell receptor transgenic mice.	Tolerance of the maternal immune system in pregnancy is important for successful pregnancy because the semiallogeneic fetus may be subject to antifetal responses. We examined maternal tolerance to the fetus using a murine system in which a model paternally inherited antigen, ovalbumin (OVA), is expressed exclusively in the fetus and placenta. By employing T cell receptor (TCR) transgenic mice specific for major histocompatibility complex class I- or class II-restricted epitopes of OVA (OT-I and OT-II) as mothers, we investigated the fate of fetus-specific CD8 and CD4 T cells, respectively, during gestation. Both OVA-specific CD8 and CD4 T cells displayed an activated phenotype in the peripheral lymphoid tissues of OVA-bred OT-I and OT-II mice, consistent with their encounter of fetal antigen. Whereas a small percentage of OVA-specific CD4 T cells were deleted in the periphery and thymus of OVA-bred OT-II mice, with evidence of TCR downregulation in the remaining T cells, deletion and TCR downregulation were not observed in OVA-bred OT-I mice. Both CD4 and CD8 T cells upregulated inducible costimulator expression in response to the fetal antigen, but only CD4 T cells consistently upregulated the inhibitory receptors programmed cell death 1 and cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4. More regulatory T cells (Tregs) were present in pregnant OVA-bred than in WT-bred OT-II mice, revealing that Tregs expanded specifically in response to the fetal antigen. These data indicate that several mechanisms tolerize fetal antigen-specific maternal CD4 T cells, whereas tolerance of fetal antigen-specific CD8 T cells is less effective. The importance of these mechanisms is underscored by the finding that fetal loss occurs in OVA-bred OT-I but not OT-II mice.
Uterine natural killer cells severely decrease in number at gestation day 6 in mice.	Uterine natural killer (uNK) cells remarkably increase in number after implantation. NK cells or their precursors migrate from the blood stream and contribute to the increase. However, the contribution of uNK cells present in the virgin uterus has been unclear. To elucidate this issue, we examined uterine leukocyte subsets during pregnancy in BALB/c mice. The most dramatic change was the massive decrease in CD11b or Gr-1 cells at gestation day (gd) 6. Uterine NK cells at gd 0 were CD11b, and severely decreased at gd 6. The decrease was selective, and the proportion of other cells examined did not decrease. Uterine NK cells almost recovered at gd 12. These cells at gd 12 were more mature and/or activated in terms of expression of CD11b, CD27, CD127, or B220 than at gd 0. CXCL12 expression was observed on uterine cells at gd 0 or 6, but not at gd 12, whereas CXCR4 was detected on uNK cells at gds 0 and 12. A much higher expression of IL-15 in uterine cells or interferon-gamma expression in uNK cells was observed at gd 12 than at gd 0. IL-15 receptor alpha chain was detected on uNK cells at gd 12, but not at gd 0. Taken together, these findings were consistent with our interpretation that uNK cells present at gd 0 do not contribute to the increase of uNK cell number after implantation, and NK cells or their precursors migrate into the uterus, mature, and produce interferon-gamma to support pregnancy.
Expression of immune relevant genes in rainbow trout following exposure to live Anisakis simplex larvae.	Basic immune response mechanisms in vertebrates against helminths are still poorly understood. Fish-nematode models may prove valuable for elucidation of this question. In this study we orally challenged rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) with larvae of Anisakis simplex (Nematoda: Anisakidae) and subsequently investigated the expression of 18 immune relevant genes in spleen and liver 1, 4 and 8days post infection (d.p.i.). Gene expression data were analysed with regard to the infection status of the challenged rainbow trout at the time of necropsy; "worms rejected" (worms), "worms present" (+worms) and a combined group consisting of samples pooled from both previous groups (/+worms). No significant regulation of cytokine genes was recorded but fish which had rejected worms up-regulated the CD4 gene (6.1-fold change, 8d.p.i.) in liver. The gene encoding CD8 was significantly down-regulated 24h post challenge in livers in fish still carrying worms (2.7-fold change) but not in the worm-free group. The immunoglobulin gene IgM was significantly down-regulated (2.9-fold change, 8d.p.i.) in liver samples from the +worms group. Complement factor C3 and precerebellin genes were significantly up-regulated twofold in liver samples from infected fish 4d.p.i. Significant up-regulation of the acute-phase protein SAA was observed in all three groups and in both tissues. To our knowledge, this is the first study to describe the expression of immune genes in a fish host challenged with live nematode larvae. 
Screening of novel malaria DNA vaccine candidates using full-length cDNA library.	No licensed malaria vaccine exists, in spite of intensive development efforts. We have been investigating development of a DNA vaccine to prevent malaria infection. To date, we have established a full-length cDNA expression library from the erythrocytic-stage murine malaria parasite, Plasmodium berghei. We found that immunization of mice with combined 2000 clones significantly prolonged survival after challenge infection and that splenocytes from the immunized mice showed parasite-specific cytokine production. We determined the 5'-end one-pass sequence of these clones and mapped a draft genomic sequence for P. berghei for use in screening vaccine candidates for efficacy. In this study, we annotated these cDNA clones by comparing them with the genomic sequence of Plasmodium falciparum. We then divided them into several subsets based on their characteristics and examined their protective effects against malaria infection. Consequently, we selected 104 clones that strongly induced specific IgG production and decreased the mortality rate in the early phase. Most of these 104 clones coded for unknown proteins. The results suggest that these clones represent potential novel malaria vaccine candidates. 
IL-33 mediates the expressions of IL-5 and IL-13 in Angiostrongylus cantonensis-infected mice.	Angiostrongylus cantonensis is the major cause of human eosinophilic meningoencephalitis. C57BL/6 mice were experimentally infected with 35 infectious larvae. Two groups of infected mice received intraperitoneal injections of mouse IL-33 (1g) or anti-IL-33 monoclonal antibody (mAb) (10g) 3days post infection (dpi) and subsequent booster shots of the same dose at 5day intervals. Blood samples from each group were collected weekly for assays. IgE levels were significantly increased in all infected mice. The eosinophil percentage and levels of IL-5 and IL-13 significantly increased in the IL-33-treated group relative to infected but non-treated animals. The level of IL-5 decreased in the mAb-treated group. The severity of eosinophilic meningitis was exacerbated in the IL-33 injected group. Taken together, these results suggest that IL-33 mediates the expressions of IL-5 and IL-13, and plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of angiostrongylosis. 
Polyunsaturated fatty acid saturation by gut lactic acid bacteria affecting host lipid composition.	In the representative gut bacterium Lactobacillus plantarum, we identified genes encoding the enzymes involved in a saturation metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids and revealed in detail the metabolic pathway that generates hydroxy fatty acids, oxo fatty acids, conjugated fatty acids, and partially saturated trans-fatty acids as intermediates. Furthermore, we observed these intermediates, especially hydroxy fatty acids, in host organs. Levels of hydroxy fatty acids were much higher in specific pathogen-free mice than in germ-free mice, indicating that these fatty acids are generated through polyunsaturated fatty acids metabolism of gastrointestinal microorganisms. These findings suggested that lipid metabolism by gastrointestinal microbes affects the health of the host by modifying fatty acid composition. 
Effect of starfish (Asterias amurensis) intake on weight gain and blood biochemical values in rats]	We observed the effect of starfish (Asterias amurensis) intake during 67 days, on rats, in terms of the activity of enzymes related to liver function and biochemical values related to weight gain, lipid metabolism and safety. 1. Starfish (Asterias amurensis) did not induce a significant difference of body weight change. 2. Starfish (Asterias amurensis) intake did not affect organ weight. 3. Starfish (Asterias amurensis) intake did not affect lipid metabolism, liver function, or protein nutrition in this experiment. 
Molecular and physiological events in respiratory muscles and blood of rats exposed to inspiratory threshold loading.	High-intensity exercise induces oxidative stress and inflammatory events in muscles. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- may alter muscle protein metabolism or promote muscle regeneration. We hypothesized that a program of noninvasive chronic inspiratory loading of different intensities induces a differential pattern of physiological, molecular, and cellular events within rat diaphragms. Antioxidants and TNF- blockade may influence those events. In the diaphragm, gastrocnemius, and blood of rats exposed to high-intensity inspiratory threshold loads (2hour every 24hours for 14days), with and without treatment with N-acetyl cysteine or infliximab (anti-TNF- antibody), inflammatory cells and cytokines, superoxide anion production, myogenesis markers, and muscle structure were explored. In all animals, maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) and body weight were determined. High-intensity inspiratory loading for 2 weeks caused a decline in MIP and body weight, and in the diaphragm induced a reduction in fast-twitch fiber proportions and sizes, whereas inflammatory cells and cytokine levels, including TNF- immunohistochemical expression, superoxide anion, internal nuclei counts, and markers of myogenesis were increased. Blockade of TNF- improved respiratory muscle function and structure, and animal weight, and, in the diaphragm, reduced inflammatory cell numbers and superoxide anion production drastically while inducing larger increases in protein and messenger RNA levels and immunohistochemical expression of TNF-, internal nuclei, and markers of muscle regeneration. Blunting of TNF- also induced a reduction in blood inflammatory cytokines and superoxide anion production. We conclude that TNF- synthesized by inflammatory cells or myofibers could have differential effects on muscle structure and function in response to chronic, noninvasive, high-intensity inspiratory threshold loading. 
Antigenic variation of porcine transmissible gastroenteritis virus detected by monoclonal antibodies.	Mouse myeloma cells (SP2/O) were fused with spleen cells from BALB/c mice immunized with detergent-solubilized antigen of purified virus, and 21 monoclonal (MC) antibodies reactive in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with the TO-163 strain of porcine transmissible gastroenteritis (TGE) virus were obtained. Of these MC antibodies, 14, 6 and 1 were IgG1, IgG2a and IgM, respectively. All of the MC antibodies contained light chains of the kappa type. Of these MC antibodies, 8 were found to have neutralization (NT) activity against the TO-163 strain. Comparison of 7 strains of TGE virus by NT tests using our panel of MC antibodies confirmed their close antigenic relationships, but also revealed the occurrence of distinct antigenic differences. These results suggest that there may be at least 6 different epitopes involved in NT reaction on the virion of the TO-163 strain. This notion was confirmed by the competitive binding assay.
The accumulation of macrophages expressing myeloid-related protein 8 (MRP8) and MRP14 in the spleen of BALB/cA mice during infection with Plasmodium berghei.	Splenomegaly is one of the typical symptoms of malaria. However, the pathogenesis of splenic enlargement still remains unclear. Spleen is a major organ for clearance of malaria parasites, but excessive response to the parasites can lead to splenomegaly. Myeloid-related protein (MRP) 8 and MRP14 are expressed by myeloid cells and are regarded as marker proteins of an immature and inflammatory subtype of macrophage. Previous studies have demonstrated that accumulation of MRP8(+) and MRP14(+) macrophages is associated with the pathological changes associated with various inflammatory diseases. In order to elucidate whether MRP8(+) and MRP14(+) cells are also involved in splenomegaly during malaria, we investigated expression of MRP8 and MRP14 in the spleens of mice infected with Plasmodium berghei. The MRP8 and MRP14 levels in the serum were analyzed by western blot, which confirmed that these proteins were elevated during infection compared with uninfected controls. Enlargement of the spleen was prominent at 7days of infection, and histological analysis of the spleens demonstrated deposition of malaria pigments and accumulation of mononuclear cells. Immunohistochemical staining of the tissue revealed the accumulation of cells expressing MRP8 and MRP14. In addition, the locations of those cells overlapped with CD11b(+) cells in the red pulp. These results suggest that splenomegaly in malaria is partly due to the accumulation of MRP8(+) and MRP14(+) macrophages.
An immunoperoxidase monoclonal antibody stain for rapid diagnosis of infectious bursal disease.	Cell smears of chicken-embryo-fibroblast (CEF) cultures and bursa of Fabricius from chickens experimentally infected with six different strains of infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) were examined for the presence of IBDV by the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method of immunoperoxidase (IP) staining using a monoclonal antibody specific for IBDV designated BK70. IBDV of different strains and serotypes were readily detected by the IP method in cell smears prepared from infected CEF cultures and from bursas. Bursal cells were positive for IP stain in most of the infected bursas (87.5%), despite their mild IBD lesions. Positive IP staining of bursal smears was well correlated with the recovery of IBDV from the bursas and with IBD lesions in the bursas. IP stain with a monoclonal antibody (BK70) appeared potentially useful for rapid and definitive diagnosis of IBD.
Effects of acute and chronic treatment with imipramine on 5-hydroxytryptamine nerve cell groups and on bulbospinal 5-hydroxytryptamine/substance P/thyrotropin releasing hormone immunoreactive neurons in the rat. A morphometric and microdensitometric analysis.	Groups of male rats were treated for a period of 14 days with imipramine (10 mumol/kg) given twice daily. Separate groups of rats received a single dose treatment using the same dose and experimental design as for the repeated treatment. Employing the avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique for immunohistochemistry 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-, substance P(SP)- and thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH)-like immunoreactivities (IRs) were visualized in consecutive coronal sections of the brain stem and of the spinal cord. The IRs were studied by means of morphometric and microdensitometric procedures using automatic image analysis on profiles representing nerve terminal networks of the ventral horn of the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal cord as well as their coexistence (5-HT/SP and 5-HT/TRH). With the same technique 5-HT IR was measured in the 5-HT nerve cell groups of the medulla oblongata (B1, B2, B3) and of the nucleus raphe dorsalis (B7) of the midbrain. In addition 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels were measured in the ventral and dorsal horns of the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal cord using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). In the same parts of the spinal cord SP IR was studied by means of radioimmunoassay (RIA). The microdensitometric studies showed that chronic, but not acute, imipramine treatment selectively increased SP IR in the 5-HT/SP/TRH costoring nerve terminals of the medial part of the ventral horn in both the cervical and the lumbar enlargements. Furthermore, quantitative analysis of the entity of coexistence in the 5-HT nerve terminals networks of these areas showed that all the 5-HT nerve terminals contained SP and TRH IRs and that this phenomenon remained after acute and chronic imipramine treatment. The microdensitometric studies on the 5-HT nerve cell groups of the medulla oblongata and of the nucleus raphe dorsalis demonstrated that chronic, but not acute, imipramine treatment selectively increased 5-HT IR in the nerve cell bodies of the lateral part of group B3 as evaluated from the median grey values. Acute, but not chronic, imipramine treatment significantly increased the field area of 5-HT IR of nerve cell bodies in group B7, reflecting an increase in the mean profile area of the 5-HT IR nerve cell body profiles. Instead, the mean profile area of 5-HT IR cell bodies of group B1 was acutely reduced by imipramine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Influence of body weight of mice on the susceptibility to okadaic acid, a diarrhetic shellfish poisoning toxin.	The mouse bioassay (MBA) for diarrhetic shellfish poisoning (DSP) toxins has been widely used in many countries of the world. However, different body weight ranges of mice are designated to be used in the Japanese official method and European Union procedure. In this study we investigated whether and to what extent the body weights of the mice affect the susceptibility to DSP toxins. A lethal dose of okadaic acid, one of the representative DSP toxins, was injected intraperitoneally into mice of five different body weight range groups, from 14 to 24 g. The mice were observed until 24 h after injection. The lethality was 100% in the 14-15 and 16-17 g groups, 80% in the 19-20 g group, 50% in the 21-22 g group, and 40% in the 23-24 g group, with significant differences. Survival analysis indicated a relationship between body weights of mice and susceptibility to okadaic acid. These results would be quite useful not only for the MBA, but also to improve understanding of the biological responses to DSP toxins.
Putative Inv is essential for basolateral invasion of Caco-2 cells and acts synergistically with OmpA to affect in vitro and in vivo virulence of Cronobacter sakazakii ATCC 29544.	Cronobacter sakazakii is an opportunistic pathogen that causes neonatal meningitis and necrotizing enterocolitis. Its interaction with intestinal epithelium is important in the pathogenesis of enteric infections. In this study, we investigated the involvement of the inv gene in the virulence of C. sakazakii ATCC 29544 in vitro and in vivo. Sequence analysis of C. sakazakii ATCC 29544 inv revealed that it is different from other C. sakazakii isolates. In various cell culture models, an inv deletion mutant showed significantly lowered invasion efficiency, which was restored upon genetic complementation. Studying invasion potentials using tight-junction-disrupted Caco-2 cells suggested that the inv gene product mediates basolateral invasion of C. sakazakii ATCC 29544. In addition, comparison of invasion potentials of double mutant (ompA inv) and single mutants (ompA and inv) provided evidence for an additive effect of the two putative outer membrane proteins. Finally, the importance of inv and the additive effect of putative Inv and OmpA were also proven in an in vivo rat pup model. This report is the first to demonstrate two proteins working synergistically in vitro, as well as in vivo in C. sakazakii pathogenesis. 
An ethA-ethR-deficient Mycobacterium bovis BCG mutant displays increased adherence to mammalian cells and greater persistence in vivo, which correlate with altered mycolic acid composition.	Tuberculosis remains a major worldwide epidemic because of its sole etiological agent, Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Ethionamide (ETH) is one of the major antitubercular drugs used to treat infections with multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis strains. ETH is a prodrug that requires activation within the mycobacterial cell; its bioactivation involves the ethA-ethR locus, which encodes the monooxygenase EthA, while EthR is a transcriptional regulator that binds to the intergenic promoter region of the ethA-ethR locus. While most studies have focused on the role of EthA-EthR in ETH bioactivation, its physiological role in mycobacteria has remained elusive, although a role in bacterial cell detoxification has been proposed. Moreover, the importance of EthA-EthR in vivo has never been reported on. Here we constructed and characterized an EthA-EthR-deficient mutant of Mycobacterium bovis BCG. Our results indicate that absence of the ethA-ethR locus led to greater persistence of M. bovis BCG in the mouse model of mycobacterial infection, which correlated with greater adherence to mammalian cells. Furthermore, analysis of cell wall lipid composition by thin-layer chromatography and mass spectrometry revealed differences between the ethA-ethR KO mutant and the parental strain in the relative amounts of - and keto-mycolates. Therefore, we propose here that M. bovis BCG ethA-ethR is involved in the cell wall-bound mycolate profile, which impacts mycobacterial adherence properties and in vivo persistence. This study thus provides some experimental clues to the possible physiological role of ethA-ethR and proposes that this locus is a novel factor involved in the modulation of mycobacterial virulence. 
T cell-specific BLIMP-1 deficiency exacerbates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in nonobese diabetic mice by increasing Th1 and Th17 cells.	Recently, we demonstrated that B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein 1 (BLIMP-1) has a role in regulating the differentiation and effector function of Th1 and Th17 cells. As these cells play critical roles in the induction and pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), we investigated the potential role of T cell BLIMP-1 in modulating MOG35-55-induced EAE. We established T cell-specific BLIMP-1 conditional knockout (CKO) NOD mice to dissect the role of BLIMP-1 in EAE using loss-of-function model. Our results indicate that EAE severity is dramatically exacerbated in CKO mice. The numbers of CNS-infiltrating Th1, Th17, IFN-(+)IL-17A(+), and IL-21(+)IL-17A(+) CD4(+) T cells are remarkably increased in brain and spinal cord of CKO mice. Moreover, the ratio of Tregs/effectors and IL-10 production of Tregs are significantly downregulated in CNS of CKO mice. We conclude that BLIMP-1 suppresses autoimmune encephalomyelitis via downregulating Th1 and Th17 cells and impairing Treg cells. 
BPSS1504, a cluster 1 type VI secretion gene, is involved in intracellular survival and virulence of Burkholderia pseudomallei.	Burkholderia pseudomallei is a Gram-negative rod and the causative agent of melioidosis, an emerging infectious disease of tropical and subtropical areas worldwide. B. pseudomallei harbors a remarkable number of virulence factors, including six type VI secretion systems (T6SS). Using our previously described plaque assay screening system, we identified a B. pseudomallei transposon mutant defective in the BPSS1504 gene that showed reduced plaque formation. The BPSS1504 locus is encoded within T6SS cluster 1 (T6SS1), which is known to be involved in the pathogenesis of B. pseudomallei in mammalian hosts. For further analysis, a B. pseudomallei BPSS1504 deletion (BpBPSS1504) mutant and complemented mutant strain were constructed. B. pseudomallei lacking the BPSS1504 gene was highly attenuated in BALB/c mice, whereas the in vivo virulence of the complemented mutant strain was fully restored to the wild-type level. The BpBPSS1504 mutant showed impaired intracellular replication and formation of multinucleated giant cells in macrophages compared with wild-type bacteria, whereas the induction of actin tail formation within host cells was not affected. These observations resembled the phenotype of a mutant lacking hcp1, which is an integral component of the T6SS1 apparatus and is associated with full functionality of the T6SS1. Transcriptional expression of the T6SS components vgrG, tssA, and hcp1, as well as the T6SS regulators virAG, bprC, and bsaN, was not dependent on BPSS1504 expression. However, secretion of Hcp1 was not detectable in the absence of BPSS1504. Thus, BPSS1504 seems to serve as a T6SS component that affects Hcp1 secretion and is therefore involved in the integrity of the T6SS1 apparatus. 
Toll-like receptor stimulation induces nondefensin protein expression and reverses antibiotic-induced gut defense impairment.	Prior antibiotic exposure is associated with increased mortality in Gram-negative bacteria-induced sepsis. However, how antibiotic-mediated changes of commensal bacteria promote the spread of enteric pathogenic bacteria in patients remains unclear. In this study, the effects of systemic antibiotic treatment with or without Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation on bacterium-killing activity, antibacterial protein expression in the intestinal mucosa, and bacterial translocation were examined in mice receiving antibiotics with or without oral supplementation of dead Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus aureus. We developed a systemic ampicillin, vancomycin, and metronidazole treatment protocol to simulate the clinical use of antibiotics. Antibiotic treatment decreased the total number of bacteria, including aerobic bacteria belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae and the genus Enterococcus as well as organisms of the anaerobic genera Lactococcus and Bifidobacterium in the intestinal mucosa and lumen. Antibiotic treatment significantly decreased the bacterium-killing activity of the intestinal mucosa and the expression of non-defensin-family proteins, such as RegIII, RegIII, C-reactive protein-ductin, and RELM, but not the defensin-family proteins, and increased Klebsiella pneumoniae translocation. TLR stimulation after antibiotic treatment increased NF-B DNA binding activity, nondefensin protein expression, and bacterium-killing activity in the intestinal mucosa and decreased K. pneumoniae translocation. Moreover, germfree mice showed a significant decrease in nondefensin proteins as well as intestinal defense against pathogen translocation. Since TLR stimulation induced NF-B DNA binding activity, TLR4 expression, and mucosal bacterium-killing activity in germfree mice, we conclude that the commensal microflora is critical in maintaining intestinal nondefensin protein expression and the intestinal barrier. In turn, we suggest that TLR stimulation induces nondefensin protein expression and reverses antibiotic-induced gut defense impairment. 
Preferential lymphatic growth in bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue in sustained lung inflammation.	Lymphatics proliferate, become enlarged, or regress in multiple inflammatory lung diseases in humans. Lymphatic growth and remodeling is known to occur in the mouse trachea in sustained inflammation, but whether intrapulmonary lymphatics exhibit similar plasticity is unknown. We examined the time course, distribution, and dependence on vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-2/VEGFR-3 signaling of lung lymphatics in sustained inflammation. Lymphatics in mouse lungs were examined under baseline conditions and 3 to 28 days after Mycoplasma pulmonis infection, using prospero heomeobox 1-enhanced green fluorescence protein and VEGFR-3 as markers. Sprouting lymphangiogenesis was evident at 7 days. Lymphatic growth was restricted to regions of bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT), where VEGF-C-producing cells were scattered in T-cell zones. Expansion of lung lymphatics after infection was reduced 68% by blocking VEGFR-2, 83% by blocking VEGFR-3, and 99% by blocking both receptors. Inhibition of VEGFR-2/VEGFR-3 did not prevent the formation of BALT. Treatment of established infection with oxytetracycline caused BALT, but not the lymphatics, to regress. We conclude that robust lymphangiogenesis occurs in mouse lungs after M. pulmonis infection through a mechanism involving signaling of both VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3. Expansion of the lymphatic network is restricted to regions of BALT, but lymphatics do not regress when BALT regresses after antibiotic treatment. The lung lymphatic network can thus expand in sustained inflammation, but the expansion is not as reversible as the accompanying inflammation.
The active form of MMP-3 is a marker of synovial inflammation and cartilage turnover in inflammatory joint diseases.	Matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) plays an important role in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Measurement of active MMP-3 in clinical samples could provide information about progression of rheumatoid diseases, and potentially response to treatment. Hence, we aimed to develop a sensitive assay specifically measuring the active form of MMP-3 (act-MMP-3) both in ex vivo models and in human sera.
The spectrum of eosinophilic infiltration of the cecum and its relationship to other disorders of multiple granulomas and arteritis in Sprague-Dawley rat.	Spontaneous multiple granulomas were present in the animal under the SPF condition and without chemical treatment, in a 19-week-old male Sprague-Dawley control-group rat. Here we describe multiple granulomas and prominent diffuse infiltration by eosinophils in the cecal submucosa, and arteritis in the mesenteric arteries. The multiple granulomas were characterized by central eosinophilic degeneration or necrosis, prominent eosinophils, many multi-nucleated giant cells and abundant fibroblasts. They were restricted to the cecal submucosa. The mesenteric arteritis consisted of fibrinoid necrosis of the intima and media, intense inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis in the arterial wall. An affected artery in the cecum was continuous with the mesenteric artery. The foregoing tissue changes in this rat correlate with the high absolute blood eosinophil count found in this animal. 
Effects of male sexual maturity of reproductive endpoints relevant to DART studies in Wistar Hannover rats.	Wistar Hannover rats have been utilized as one of major strains in regulatory toxicology studies. This study was performed to verify the appropriate age of male sexual maturity in the development and reproductive toxicity (DART) study in Wistar Hannover rats (RccHan:WIST) by comparing reproductive endpoints between 8, 10 and 12 weeks of ages. Although fertility showed a tendency toward decrease in 8-week-old males, copulation index was not different among three ages. Testis weights reached a plateau at 10 weeks of age, whereas weights of other reproductive organs developed until 12 weeks of age. Indices of spermatogenesis (sperm motility, number of sperm in the epididymis and testis and contents of morphologically abnormal sperm) showed age-related progress and did not fully develop except for 12-week-old. For histology, epididymal tubules in 8-week-old animals showed immaturity with tall epithelium. At cesarean section, dams mated with 8-week-old males showed high incidence of preimplantation loss and the number of live fetuses was less than 10. In conclusion, although reproductive performance attained maturity by age of 10 weeks, spermatogenesis was not fully established at 10-week-old, which could result in a low fertility index. Therefore, we recommend that Wistar Hannover male rats at 12-week-old or older are used to conduct DART study properly and evaluate any adverse effects on dams and embryo-fetal development. 
Teratogenicity of asbestos in mice.	Possible teratogenicity of 3 different asbestos (crocidolite, chrysotile and amosite) was assessed in CD1(ICR) mice. Dams on day 9 of gestation were given a single intraperitoneal administration at dose of 40 mg/kg body weight of asbestos suspended in 2% sodium carboxymethyl cellulose solution in phosphate buffered saline, while dams in the control group were given vehicle (10 ml/kg body weight). Dams and fetuses were examined on day 18 of gestation. To compare with the control group, the mean percentage of live fetuses in implantations in the group given crocidolite and the incidence of dams with early dead fetuses in the groups given chrysotile or amosite were increased. While no external or skeletal malformation was observed in the control group, the incidence of external malformation (mainly reduction deformity of limb) in the group given amosite, and the incidences of skeletal malformation (mainly fusion of vertebrae) in the all dosed groups were significantly increased. The result indicated that asbestos (crocidolite, chrysotile and amosite) have fetotoxicity and teratogenicity in mice. 
Pegylated feline granulocyte colony-stimulating factor increases neutrophil levels in cats.	Neutropenia can often be corrected by treatment with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and off-label use of commercial human G-CSF (HuG-CSF) is a commonly used treatment for neutropenic animals. However, long-term HuG-CSF treatment can be associated with adverse effects, including neutropenia. Here, feline (Fe) G-CSF was produced in Pichia pastoris, pegylated (Peg) FeG-CSF and tested in cats. A randomized controlled clinical trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of PegFeG-CSF compared to FeG-CSF or HuG-CSF in FIV-infected (n=14), FIV-uninfected healthy cats (n=19), and in HuG-CSF-induced neutropenic cats (n=4). Daily FeG-CSF doses induced higher neutrophil production than HuG-CSF after the second week of treatment (P  0.002). Weekly doses of PegFeG-CSF induced higher neutrophil counts and showed greater sustained activity than weekly doses of FeG-CSF. PegFeG-CSF provided the most therapeutic and sustainable neutrophil production (P<0.001) in both FIV-uninfected and FIV-infected cats, without the development of neutralizing antibodies. Conversely, all HuG-CSF-treated cats developed neutralizing antibodies, suggesting cross-reactive antibodies to endogenous G-CSF in a majority of the cases with severe neutropenia. Strikingly, when PegFeG-CSF was used to rescue cats with HuG-CSF-induced neutropenia, clinically normal neutrophil numbers returned. Thus, PegFeG-CSF appears to be a superior treatment for neutropenia in feline patients.
Human oral cancer cells with increasing tumorigenic abilities exhibit higher effective membrane capacitance.	Although cells with tumorigenic/stem cell-like properties have been identified in many cancers, including oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), their isolation and characterisation is still at early stages. The aim of this study is to characterise the electrophysiological properties of OSCC cells with different tumorigenic properties in order to establish if a correlation exists between tumorigenicity and cellular electrical characteristics.
Bacterial translocation in alymphoplasia (aly/aly) mice.	Bacterial translocation (BTL) is defined as the passage of viable bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract to the organs. This study was to elucidate the roles of Peyer's patches (PPs) and/or mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) in BTL. Alymphoplastic mutant mice and phenotypically normal heterozygous micewere dominantly colonized with streptomycin-resistant Escherichia coli and BTL was examined. In PP- and MLN-competent mice, BTL to MLNs was detected in 100% of mice, but BTL to organs was rare (25%). On the other hand, in PP- and MLN-deficientmice, BTL to organs was detected in 91% of mice. The results clearly indicate that PPs are not the only site for bacterial entry.
Characterization of a low pathogenic avian influenza H5N2 virus isolated from a turkey breeder flock in Manitoba, Canada.	In November 2010, an outbreak of avian influenza (AI) due to the H5N2 subtype virus occurred in a turkey breeder farm in northern Manitoba, Canada. The only clinical signs observed were depression, decrease in food consumption, and loss of egg production. The hemagglutinin (HA) cleavage (HA(0)) site of the isolated H5N2 virus was PQRETR/GLF, consistent with low pathogenic AI viruses. The intravenous pathogenicity index of this virus was zero. Whole-genome sequencing of two isolates that originated from two different barns was performed, and both isolates had 100% identical protein sequence in PB2, HA, NP, M1, M2, NS1, and NS2. The remaining gene segments (PB1, PA, and NA) had a single amino-acid difference when compared with each other. The nucleotide and protein sequences of eight gene segments from both isolates showed 99 or greater identity with other AI viruses that have been circulating in free-living aquatic birds in Canada and the United States within the last 10 yr. Phylogenetic analysis of the HA and neuraminidase (NA) gene segments showed that these viruses are closely related to other H5 strains that have been isolated from Manitoba and other parts of Canada. Serologic testing of archived serum samples collected from these turkeys a week before the outbreak showed no evidence of AI infection. In addition, other farms that were located within 3 km radius from the infected farm and farms that had epidemiologic connection with the farm also tested negative for the presence of H5N2 AI virus or antibody. This indicates that the virus might have been introduced to the farm from wild aquatic birds only a short time before detection. Results of this study highlight the importance of early detection and the significance of ongoing Canada-wide surveillance of AI in domestic poultry as well as in wild aquatic birds/ducks.
Infectious bronchitis virus S2 expressed from recombinant virus confers broad protection against challenge.	We developed a recombinant Newcastle disease virus (NDV) LaSota (rLS) expressing the infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) S2 gene (rLS/IBV.S2). The recombinant virus showed somewhat-reduced pathogenicity compared to the parental lentogenic LaSota strain but effectively elicited hemagglutination inhibition antibodies against NDV and protected chickens against lethal challenge with virulent NDV/CA02. IBV heterotypic protection was assessed using a prime-boost approach with a commercially available attenuated IBV Massachusetts (Mass)-type vaccine. Specific-pathogen-free chickens primed ocularly with rLS/IBV.S2 at 4 days of age and boosted with Mass at 18 days of age were completely protected against challenge at 41 days of age with a virulent Ark-type strain. In a second experiment, we compared protection conferred by priming with rLS/IBV.S2 and boosting with Mass (rLS/IBV.S2+Mass) versus priming and boosting with Mass (Mass+Mass). We also modified the timing of vaccination to prime at 1 day of age and boost at 12 days of age. Challenge with virulent Ark was performed at 21 days of age. Based on clinical signs, both vaccinated groups appeared equally protected against challenge compared to unvaccinated challenged chickens. Viral loads in lachrymal fluids of birds receiving rLS/IBV.S2+Mass showed a clear tendency of improved protection compared to Mass+Mass; however, the difference did not achieve statistical significance. A significant difference (P < 0.05) was determined between these groups regarding incidence of detection of challenge IBV RNA in the trachea; viral RNA was detected in 50% of rLS/IBV.S2+Mass-vaccinated chickens while chickens vaccinated with Mass+Mass and unvaccinated challenged controls showed 84 and 90% incidence of IBV RNA detection in the trachea, respectively. These results demonstrate that overexposing the IBV S2 to the chicken immune system by means of a vectored vaccine, followed by boost with whole virus, protects chickens against IBV showing dissimilar S1.
Comparison of vaccine subpopulation selection, viral loads, vaccine virus persistence in trachea and cloaca, and mucosal antibody responses after vaccination with two different Arkansas Delmarva Poultry Industry -derived infectious bronchitis virus vaccines.	Factors responsible for the persistence of Arkansas Delmarva Poultry Industry (ArkDPI)-derived infectious bronchitis vaccines in commercial flocks and the high frequency of isolation of ArkDPI-type infectious bronchitis viruses in respiratory cases are still unclear. We compared dynamics of vaccine viral subpopulations, viral loads, persistence in trachea and cloaca, and the magnitude of infectious bronchitis virus (1BV)-specific antibody induction after vaccination with two commercial ArkDPI-derived Arkansas (Ark) serotype vaccines. One of the vaccines (coded vaccine B) produced significantly higher vaccine virus heterogeneity in vaccinated chickens than the other vaccine (coded A). Chickens vaccinated with vaccine B had significantly higher viral loads in tears at 5 days postvaccination (DPV) than those vaccinated with vaccine A. Vaccine B also induced a significantly higher lachrymal immunoglobulin M response at 11 DPV, an earlier peak of IBV-specific lachrymal immunoglobulin A, and higher serum antibodies than vaccine A. In addition, a significantly higher proportion of birds vaccinated with vaccine B had vaccine virus detected in the trachea at 20 DPV than those vaccinated with vaccine A. Furthermore, the virus detected at 20 DPV in most of the chickens vaccinated with vaccine B was a single specific subpopulation (subpopulation 4) selected from multiple vaccine subpopulations detected earlier at 5 and 7 DPV in the same chickens. On the other hand, a higher proportion of chickens vaccinated with vaccine A had virus detected in cloacal swabs at 20 DPV. Thus we found differences in mucosal antibody induction and selection and persistence of vaccine viruses between two ArkDPI-derived vaccines from different manufacturers. The higher vaccine virus heterogeneity observed in chickens vaccinated with vaccine B compared with those vaccinated with vaccine A may be responsible for these differences. Thus the high frequency of Ark IBV viruses in the field may be due to the inherent ability of some ArkDPI-derived vaccine viruses to be selected and persist in vaccinated chickens. Vaccine virus persistence may offer genetic material for recombination or may undergo mutations with the potential to result in increased virulence.
Cross-protective immune responses between genotypically distinct lineages of infectious laryngotracheitis viruses.	Recent phylogenetic studies have identified different genotypic lineages of infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV), and these lineages can recombine in the field. The emergence of virulent recombinant field strains of ILTV by natural recombination between commercial vaccines belonging to different genotypic lineages has been reported recently. Despite the use of attenuated ILTV vaccines, these recombinant viruses were able to spread and cause disease in commercial poultry flocks, raising the question of whether the different lineages of ILTV can induce cross-protective immune responses. This study examined the capacity of the Australian-origin A20 ILTV vaccine to protect against challenge with the class 8 ILTV recombinant virus, the genome of which is predominantly derived from a heterologous genotypic lineage. Following challenge, birds vaccinated via eyedrop were protected from clinical signs of disease and pathological changes in the tracheal mucosa, although they were not completely protected from viral infection or replication. In contrast, the challenge virus induced severe clinical signs and tracheal pathology in unvaccinated birds. This is the first study to examine the ability of a vaccine from the Australian lineage to protect against challenge with a virus from a heterologous lineage. These results suggest that the two distinct genotypic lineages of ILTV can both induce cross-protection, indicating that current commercial vaccines are still likely to assist in control of ILTV in the poultry industry, in spite of the emergence of novel recombinants derived from different genotypic lineages.
Prevalence of helicobacter in laboratory mice in Thailand.	Prevalence of Helicobacter is mostly unknown in laboratory animals in Thailand. The 221 mice feces/cecum from 8 universities, 2 pharmaceutical companies and 3 research institutions in Thailand were surveyed for the prevalence and distribution of Helicobacter species by using the Electrochemical DNA chip. Helicobacter were detected 23/46 samples in Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) and 168/175 in conventional condition. Prevalence of Helicobacter were 98%, 96%, 92% and 78% in South (n=40), Northeast (n=40), North (n=25) and Central area (n=116), respectively. Only Central area holds SPF facility resulting in Helicobacter prevalence that seems to be lower than other areas. Three species of Helicobacter were detected in feces/cecum samples by sequence analysis: H. rodentium (67.0%, 148 samples), Helicobacter sp. MIT 01-6451 (15.4%, 34 samples), and unidentified Helicobacter species (14.1%, 9 samples). The results suggested that H. rodentium is the most common species of Helicobacter in laboratory mice in Thailand. 
Bronchoalveolar lavage in the cat: cytological findings.	Cells recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage from the lungs of specific pathogen-free (SPF) cats from birth to maturity and from adult conventional cats were enumerated and identified. The predominant cell type recovered was the pulmonary alveolar macrophage from all ages of both SPF and conventional cats. Other cell types included eosinophils, neutrophils and lymphocytes. Lavage of conventional cats yielded significantly more eosinophils and neutrophils than were recovered from SPF cats.
An analysis of Trichinella pseudospiralis excretions and study of their effect on striated muscles of mouse.	The causes of changes observed after infection of muscles with Trichinella pseudospiralis larvae were studied. The changes are not only regressive, but also proliferative (activation and mitosis of satellite cells and formation of new myotubes). By means of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and an original method it was found that T. pseudospiralis larvae excrete into their environment among others a great amount of n-butylamine. A direct application of n-butylamine into the gluteal muscle of mouse supported the assumption that this amine is one of the factors causing the changes in muscles induced by T. pseudospiralis infection. The application of n-butylamine into the muscle resulted in regressive and regenerative changes similar to that observed in case of T. pseudospiralis infection.
Regeneration in mouse skeletal muscle injured by Trichinella larvae.	During the infection caused by Trichinella pseudospiralis serious damage to muscles is partly compensated with regeneration process. Short, thin fibrillae with central position of the nuclei--regenerating myotubes originate 20--40th day post infection in endomysial tubes remaining after damaged muscle fibres, left by migrating larva. On the 10th day post infection in the vicinity of moving larva activation of nuclei and increased origin of satellite cells under basal membrane occur. With development of the infection endothelia in the vicinity of altered fibrillae are increasing in number but there is small inflammatory and fibroproductive reaction only. During the infection caused by Trichinella spiralis and T. nativa, alteration of muscle fibres is accompanied by early inflammatory and fibroproductive reaction towards immediate surroundings of larvae. In a changed segment of muscle fibre with the larva--in pseudocyst there is altered basal lamina as well, built in increased glycocalyx and in the course of 20 days encased by connective tissue. Revascularisation and regeneration in a short damaged segment does not occur even during long-lasting infection because of separation by capsule.
Subcellular distribution of class II major histocompatibility antigens in enterocytes of the human and rat small intestine.	Class II antigens encoded within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) have been examined at the ultrastructural level in enterocytes from both man and rat. A protocol has been developed for fixation which, in conjunction with a pre-embedding indirect immunoperoxidase technique preserves antigenicity of the class II molecules and allows detection of intracellular antigen. Details of the technique are provided and discussed in relation to the general paucity of information available on ultrastructural localization of class II MHC molecules. Class II MHC antigens have been identified on the basolateral cell membranes of enterocytes in both species and they have also been found in association with intracellular organelles that have the appearance of multivesicular bodies and secondary lysosomes. These observations link class II molecules with the endocytic pathway in enterocytes and suggest a possible role in the handling of gut antigens. The findings may have a more general significance in relation to the site of engagement between processed antigen and MHC molecules in specialized antigen-presenting cells.
Limitations of interpretation of age-related changes in hormone levels: illustration by effects of thyroid hormones on cardiac and skeletal muscle.	Studies on age-related changes in hormone secretion or circulation are frequently interpreted to indicate changes in the functions of target tissues for that hormone. Such interpretations are not necessarily correct. For instance, the levels of thyroid hormone change modestly with age, and responses to this change differ dramatically in cardiac and skeletal muscles. There is a substantial change in myosin isozyme content of the heart, but little or no change in skeletal muscle fiber type distribution in specific pathogen free (SPF) barrier-protected rats. These changes (or lack of them) are reflected in functional differences (or lack of them) in the target tissues. The most obvious difference between the recent studies showing no differences with age in skeletal muscle fiber distribution and previous reports of general decreases with age in content of fast fibers is in animal housing conditions; all of the animals showing an age-related change had been housed in conventional colonies, while those exhibiting little or no change were in SPF barrier-protected facilities.
Eimeria species infecting wood mice (genus Apodemus) and the transfer of two species to Mus musculus.	Characteristics of four species of Eimeria isolated from Apodemus sylvaticus are described. From oocyst morphology, three are identified as E. apionodes, E. hungaryensis and E. uptoni, the fourth being unnamed. Cloning demonstrated that oocysts of E. hungaryensis were polymorphic. Previous literature relating to the taxonomy is discussed and discrepancies outlined. Species isolated from A. sylvaticus were not transmissible to Clethrionomys glareolus, but both E. hungaryensis and E. apionodes have been passaged through immunosuppressed laboratory mice, the former species more than 16 times. In both A. sylvaticus and immunosuppressed laboratory mice, endogenous development of E. hungaryensis occurred mainly in enterocytes near the tips of the villi in the first half of the small intestine, with a few parasites in the rest of the small intestine and into the large intestine. The pre-patent period was 2 days in both hosts but oocyst output was higher in the natural hosts. E. apionodes parasitized enterocytes on the sides or at the base of the villi, mainly in the last 90% of the small intestine with a few parasites in the large intestine. The pre-patent period was 7 days. Parasites, probably E. hungaryensis and E. apionodes, were also isolated from A. flavicollis.
Distribution of persistent Salmonella typhimurium infection in internal organs of swine.	Experiments were conducted to establish a persistent Salmonella typhimurium infection in convalescent swine, and to determine rate of shedding and distribution of the organism in internal organs. Naturally farrowed Salmonella-free pigs (n = 37) were orally exposed to S typhimurium when 7 to 8 weeks old. Fecal samples, tonsillar scrapings, and rectal swab specimens were examined bacteriologically for S typhimurium at weekly intervals after exposure until necropsy (maximum of 28 weeks after exposure). Necropsies of 1 to 4 randomly selected pigs were conducted at 2, 4, and 7 days and at 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, and 28 weeks after exposure. The following internal organs were examined bacteriologically for S typhimurium: liver, spleen, kidney, gallbladder, heart, lung, and stomach; segments of the intestinal tract with corresponding lymph nodes; lymph nodes from lymphocenters of the head and neck, thoracic and abdominal cavities, pelvic wall, and thoracic and pelvic limbs. Fecal samples were 83 to 100% culture-positive up to postexposure (PE) week 22, then varied from 14 to 67% positive until PE week 28. At least 60% of tonsillar swab specimens and 50% of rectal swab specimens were culture-positive up to PE week 20, after which they varied from 0 to 70% positive until PE week 28. At necropsy, S typhimurium was recovered most frequently from tonsils (93.5% positive), followed by segments of the intestinal tract from caudal portion of jejunum to rectum (71% recovery from cecum), and mandibular (54.8%) and ileocolic (45.2%) lymph nodes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Influence of dietary phosphorus restriction on calcium and phosphorus metabolism in rats.	The effect of dietary phosphorus (P) on calcium (Ca) and phosphorus metabolism was studied in young female rats. P levels in the semipurified diets ranged from 0.1 to 0.4% (w/w). A level of 0.4% P in the diet is recommended for rats. Kidney calcification was observed in rats fed the 0.4%-P diet whereas P restriction prevented this condition. Rats fed the diet containing 0.1% P, showed severe hypercalciuria, hypercalcemia, reduced growth and impaired bone mineralization. These effects did not occur when the diet contained 0.2 or 0.3% of P. This study suggests that in short-term studies P in the diet of female rats can be restricted to 0.2% so as to prevent nephrocalcinosis without affecting their development.
The influence of bone marrow depletion on intestinal radiation damage.	These experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that bone marrow damage contributes to lethality when the endpoint used is LD50 for gastrointestinal damage. Specific pathogen-free mice were irradiated to the total body, total abdomen, or to the total body followed by rescue with syngeneic bone marrow cells. The relationship between animal survival and jejunal crypt survival was also examined under these three experimental conditions. The LD50/10 after total abdominal irradiation (15.6 Gy) was higher than that for total body irradiation (11.4 Gy). Rescue with syngeneic bone marrow cells after total body irradiation also increased the LD50 10 days to 14.6 Gy. The proportion of animals surviving after total body irradiation depended on the number of bone marrow cells injected as a rescue inoculum. Hence gastrointestinal death after total body irradiation is influenced by bone marrow depletion. Crypt survival, however, was similar following all three experimental procedures. These data, therefore, demonstrate a dissociation between a clonogenic and lethality assay of intestinal damage. Furthermore, a comparison of crypt survival at the LD50 under the different conditions showed that a factor of 10 times more crypts were needed to rescue a mouse from gut lethality when the total body was irradiated than when only the total abdomen was treated. Hence, the concept of the intestinal "tissue rescuing unit" as a precise and constant number of crypts is inappropriate and will vary with the experimental conditions.
Immunodeficiency in latent feline leukemia virus infections.	Challenge of naive experimental animals with a retroviral inoculum may result in one of two broad sequelae. The first is the establishment of an appropriate humoral and cellular immune response leading to a condition of immunity to subsequent infection with the retrovirus. Alternatively, the host may fail to develop a successful immune response, resulting in a chronic viremia associated with immunosuppression and ultimately death due to secondary pathogens. An alternate disease course is the establishment of a latent infection characterized by the presence of neutralizing antibody and strong cellular immune reactivity. Recent data from the feline leukemia virus (FeLV) system suggest that cats infected with this virus may develop immunosuppression in the form of persistent neutrophil dysfunction. The potential effect of this cellular dysfunction is the possible susceptibility of the host to the same opportunistic pathogens which are responsible for the increased mortality noted in chronic FeLV infections. These data demonstrate that persistent retroviremia is not essential for the establishment of immunosuppression. This overview presents data accumulated from the feline model of the human acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and discusses its relationship to human retroviral infections.
FeLV-induced immunosuppression through alterations in signal transduction: down regulation of protein kinase C.	Activation of protein kinase C by a phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), was shown to stimulate the respiratory burst in normal cat neutrophils. Neutrophils from feline leukemia virus (FeLV)-exposed viremic and nonviremic cats had significant suppression of their respiratory burst when stimulated with TPA. The addition of whole ultraviolet light-inactivated FeLV and FeLV proteins to normal cat neutrophils produced no significant suppression of the respiratory burst. These data suggest two possible mechanisms for suppression. The first is partially due to viral alterations of the neutrophil as seen in viremic cats, but, because exogenously applied FeLV or FeLV proteins had no effect on the respiratory burst, an additional mechanism is present. The second mechanism may be caused by a latent FeLV infection residing in nonviremic cat bone marrows which alters their immune system, resulting in immunosuppression.
In vitro and in vivo characterization of avian reoviruses. I. Pathogenicity and antigenic relatedness of several avian reovirus isolates.	Pathogenicity, pathogenesis, and antigenic relatedness of four avian reovirus isolates obtained from commercially reared broilers were investigated. Chickens of various ages were inoculated both orally and intratracheally with reovirus. Based on disease signs, mortality, weight depression, tissue lesions, invasiveness, and viral persistence in chickens inoculated at 1 day of age, the isolates were classified as being of low, intermediate, or high pathogenicity. The low-pathogenicity isolate (2177) did not cause mortality, weight depression, or clinical disease. The isolate of intermediate pathogenicity (2035) produced low mortality rates (8%), some weight reduction by 7 weeks postinoculation, and microscopic lesions in the intestine and gastrocnemius tendons. The pathogenic isolates, 2408 and 1733, caused severe clinical disease characterized by stunting, feathering abnormalities, mortality as high as 84%, and microscopic lesions in the liver, intestine, pancreas, and/or gastrocnemius tendon. Highly pathogenic isolates also persisted longer in tissues of infected birds and elicited a more prompt and prolonged antibody response. Birds inoculated at 1 day or 1 week of age were more susceptible to reovirus-induced disease than birds inoculated at 2 weeks, suggesting an age-associated resistance. All isolates produced mortality with equal frequency in embryos. The isolates characterized were found to be antigenically similar based on cross-neutralization and cross-protection studies.
In vitro and in vivo characterization of avian reoviruses. II. Clinical evaluation of chickens infected with two avian reovirus pathotypes.	The effect of two avian reovirus isolates (2408 and 1733) on digestion and nutrient metabolism in infected chickens was assessed by an in vitro absorption assay and clinical blood chemistry analysis. Birds of various ages were inoculated orally and intratracheally with reovirus and sampled periodically for the respective assays. Transitory malabsorption was observed in the duodenum of birds infected with reovirus 2408. Conversely, increased absorption was detected in the ileum of these same birds. Clinical blood chemistry analyses of birds infected with both isolates revealed that severely affected birds had abnormally elevated plasma total protein, plasma albumin, and calcium levels. Decreases were found in percent bone ash and, due to abnormally high globulin levels, in albumin:globulin (A:G) ratios. A significant (P less than 0.05) correlation between body weights and total protein, albumin, A:G ratio, and bone ash was found in infected birds. The most pronounced metabolic and physiologic changes occurred in the severely affected birds, and, in general, pathogenicity of the isolates was reflected by the degree of metabolic change.
In vitro and in vivo characterization of avian reoviruses. III. Host factors affecting virulence and persistence.	Three avian reovirus isolates (2177, 2035, and 1733) were used to determine the effect of the age of chickens at inoculation on virus virulence and persistence. Groups of specific-pathogen-free leghorns were inoculated with three different reovirus isolates of different levels of pathogenicity at 1 day, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, or 4 weeks of age. Tissues were examined for the presence of virus and lesions at regular intervals until 8 weeks postinoculation (PI) and then again at 22 weeks PI. Isolate 1733, which is highly pathogenic, was reisolated from the thymus, trachea, liver, intestine, cecal tonsils, bursa of Fabricius, gastrocnemius tendon, and white blood cells. Microscopic lesions were observed in some tissues, including the thymus, liver, spleen, bursa of Fabricius, and gastrocnemius tendons, when sampled within a 7-day period following inoculation. This isolate persisted and produced microscopic lesions in the gastrocnemius tendons for as long as 22 weeks PI. The isolates of intermediate pathogenicity (2035) or low pathogenicity (2177) were isolated less frequently and from fewer tissues than isolate 1733. Isolate 2035 could be found in the gastrocnemius tendons as long as 7 weeks PI, whereas isolate 2177 was never isolated from the tendons, nor did it produce any notable gross or microscopic tissue changes. Birds inoculated at age 1 week or older with any of the three reovirus pathotypes were more resistant to infection than 1-day-old inoculates, as evidenced by a decrease in virus reisolations and a concurrent reduction in the severity of lesions in selected tissues.
Adenoviral pancreatitis in guinea fowl (Numida meleagris).	Necrotizing pancreatitis was observed in 2-week-old Guinea fowl submitted for necropsy and histopathology. Intranuclear inclusion bodies seen histologically in acinar epithelium were examined by electron microscopy and found to contain viruses resembling adenovirus. Adenovirus was isolated in embryonated eggs from the pancreata of affected birds. The adenovirus isolated was not neutralized by chicken antisera developed against 10 known serotypes of group 1 avian adenoviruses.
Inhibition of murine hepatitis virus infections by the immunomodulator 2,3,5,6,7,8-hexahydro-2-phenyl-8,8-dimethoxy-imidazo[1,2a]pyridine (PR-879-317A).	PR-879-317A (2,3,5,6,7,8-hexahydro-2-phenyl-8,8-dimethoxy-imidazo [1,2a]pyridine) has been found to be a T-cell-selective immunomodulating agent. In the current studies, a series of experiments was designed to determine the potential antiviral activity of this compound in mice infected with murine hepatitis virus. In a comparative antiviral experiment, the activity seen was superior to that of levamisole, a known immunorestorative agent. This activity was characterized by an increase in the 21-day survival frequency, a decrease in hepatic discoloration, a decrease in the amount of infectious virus recoverable from the liver, and normalization of serum glutamic oxalacetate and pyruvate transaminase levels. A comparison of treatment routes indicated the relative efficacies as intraperitoneal greater than per os greater than intramuscular greater than or equal to subcutaneous. Alteration of the treatment schedule markedly affected the antiviral effect; prophylactic or therapeutic treatments once or twice daily for 3 days were usually effective. Single treatments begun 4 h before or 24 h after virus inoculation were highly efficacious. Three treatments administered on alternate days, beginning 48 h before virus inoculation, proved moderately effective. Thrice-daily treatments were ineffective, as were treatments with durations of greater than 3 days. The optimal dosage varied according to the treatment route and dosage schedule. When assessed for direct antiviral activity in vitro, PR-879-317A failed to demonstrate any significant activity against murine hepatitis virus. The positive in vivo activity noted might therefore be the result of immune modulation rather than a direct antiviral effect.
Assessment by ELISA of passively acquired protection against infectious bursal disease virus in chickens.	The level of maternal antibody to infectious bursal disease (IBD) virus in the circulation of one-day-old layer strain chickens was found to be on average, 45% of the antibody titre in their respective dam, while the minimum ELISA titre which protected against a challenge of 1000 CID50 of virus was 400. Maternal antibody was found to disappear from the circulation of these crossbred chickens with a half-life of 6.7 days. From these data it is possible to estimate the ELISA titre necessary in vaccinated hens to provide the desired duration of passive protection; protection being assessed by an ELISA which measures IBD viral antigen in the bursa of Fabricius following challenge.
Serologic and pathogenetic studies on avian reoviruses isolated in Japan.	Eighty-nine avian reoviruses isolated from diseased and clinically normal chickens were classified serologically using antisera against five prototype strains. Eighty-three strains were classified into five serotypes; six strains were untypable. Most of the cytopathogenic strains that produced a clear cytopathic effect (CPE) in chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEFs) were highly pathogenic for chicken embryos (80% or more mortality via the allantoic sac) and for chicks (severe footpad swellings and tenosynovitis). These strains were classified into a single serotype represented by the TS-142 prototype strain. However, 10 strains that could not produce a clear CPE in CEFs showed very low pathogenicity for embryos and chicks, and these strains were serologically different from the TS-142 prototype strain. There was a strong relationship between pathogenicity and serotype. About 17% of the isolates were considered highly pathogenic.
Serum antibody responses of chickens following sequential inoculations with different infectious bronchitis virus serotypes.	Sequential inoculations of chickens with different live infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) antigenic types had major effects on virus-neutralization (VN) and hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) serum antibody responses. Antibody production in IBV-inoculated chickens that were reinoculated 8 weeks later with heterologous virus was largely directed against the virus used for initial inoculation rather than the virus used for reinoculation. In addition, chickens inoculated sequentially with IBV produced a broadened spectrum of serum antibodies that reacted with IBV types to which the birds had never been exposed (JMK and Florida). Chickens inoculated sequentially with heterologous IBV tended to produce higher levels of cross-reacting antibody than birds given homologous virus inoculations. Levels of cross-reacting antibodies were lower than levels of specific antibodies directed against viruses that the birds had received. Limited studies indicated that birds with cross-reacting antibodies were not protected against challenge with the virus that the cross-reacting antibody was directed against. Implications of the research for interpreting serological data from commercial chicken flocks are discussed.
Effect of bursal cell number on the pathogenesis of infectious bursal disease in chickens.	The pathogenesis of infectious bursal disease (IBD) in chickens neonatally chemically bursectomized (CB) by cyclophosphamide and subsequently inoculated with various numbers of bursal cells was examined. CB chickens inoculated with at least 62.5 X 10(6) bursal cells were as susceptible to IBD clinical manifestations (as determined by gross and microscopic evaluation of bursal tissues, virus recovery from spleen, and antibody titer) as intact chickens following inoculation with virus at 5 weeks of age. In contrast, CB chickens inoculated with 2.5 X 10(6) or fewer bursal cells were refractory to the IBD clinical manifestations compared with intact chickens or CB chickens inoculated with 62.5 X 10(6) or more bursal cells. Results from this study suggest that the availability of a large number of bursal cells is an essential factor in the development of IBD.
Comparative study of the pathogenicity of avian reoviruses.	Reovirus strains CO8 and 81-5, isolated from chickens with malabsorption syndrome, and reovirus strain 176, isolated from chickens with tenosynovitis, were each individually inoculated into 1-day-old specific-pathogen-free chicks. Strain CO8 caused tenosynovitis and pericarditis following footpad inoculation, but it was of low pathogenicity when given by either oral or subcutaneous route. In contrast, strains 81-5 and 176 were highly pathogenic and caused severe mortality following subcutaneous inoculation. Lesions included hepatic necrosis, bursal atrophy, thymitis, and splenic hyperplasia; strain 81-5 also caused pericarditis and myocarditis. Although strain 176 caused higher mortality than strain 81-5, these two strains differed little in the severity and distribution of the lesions they caused. No signs or lesions of typical malabsorption syndrome were observed.
The effect on newborn chicks of oral inoculation of reovirus isolated from chickens with tenosynovitis.	Reovirus strain 176, isolated from chickens with tenosynovitis, was highly pathogenic following oral inoculation of 1-day-old specific-pathogen-free chicks. Disseminated lesions including hepatic necrosis, splenic lymphostromal cell hyperplasia, and bursal atrophy occurred on day 3 postinoculation (PI), followed by myocarditis on day 6 PI and by pericarditis and tenosynovitis on day 9 PI. Reovirus was isolated from the liver as early as day 1 PI, whereas significant neutralizing antibody was detected on day 13 PI. Mortality occurred from day 4 to day 7 PI, and the death of birds was associated with the severity of hepatic necrosis. The occurrence of tenosynovitis in virus-inoculated birds was subclinical.
Studies of avian urolithiasis associated with an infectious bronchitis virus.	Avian urolithiasis syndrome was diagnosed in 14-to-25-week-old chickens from a multiple-age caged-layer complex housing more than 2.5 million chickens. Losses from this syndrome ranged from 0.5 to 1.0% per week. Seven-to-14-week-old pullets from this facility had multifocal renal tubular necrosis leading to interstitial fibrosis, tophus formation, and tubular dilation. A coronavirus was isolated in embryos inoculated with pooled samples of trachea, kidney, and cecal tonsil of 4-week-old pullets. This virus, identified as 85-209, was related to infectious bronchitis virus strain Florida 88 by hemagglutination-inhibition assay. Day-old specific-pathogen-free chicks were inoculated with fifth-embryo-passage amnioallantoic fluid containing this virus. These chicks developed histologic lesions of tracheitis at 5 to 7 days postinoculation. Half the chicks inoculated by eyedrop developed renal tubular necrosis after 7 days. Urolithiasis in the flock investigated was attributed to renal damage by this strain of infectious bronchitis virus occurring in 4-to-7-week-old pullets and progressing to segmental atrophy, hyperplasia, and ureteral stone formation in 14-to-25-week-old chickens.
Inclusion body hepatitis in bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus).	Farm-reared bobwhite quails less than 3 weeks of age experienced high mortality (250 of 400). At necropsy, these birds had multiple 1-to-2-mm pale foci throughout their livers. Histologically, these foci varied from acute hepatocellular necrosis without an inflammatory response to necrosis with infiltrates of mononuclear inflammatory cells and some heterophils. Hepatocytes adjacent to affected areas had large basophilic intranuclear inclusions. A group I avian adenovirus was isolated from affected livers.
Antigenicity of UV radiation-induced murine tumors correlates positively with the level of adenosine deaminase activity.	The specific activities of adenosine deaminase (ADA) in 16 murine tumor cell lines derived from seven UV light-induced neoplasms (melanoma and fibrosarcoma) were determined. In each case, the specific activity of ADA correlated positively with the antigenicity of the tumor cells. Highly antigenic cell lines that regress upon introduction into syngeneic hosts had on average 4- to 6-fold higher ADA specific activities than cell lines of low antigenicity that grow progressively in syngeneic hosts. The antigenic differences are probably not related to intracellular cAMP levels, as the level of cAMP differed only 2-fold between the two groups of cell lines.
Action of food restriction on age-related changes in adipocyte lipolysis.	The effects of aging and of food restriction at different times during life on rat adipocyte responses to glucagon and epinephrine were explored by studying hormone-stimulated lipolysis, hormone binding, and phosphodiesterase activity. The times of food restriction were: (a) from 6 weeks of age, (b) limited to early life, and (c) beginning in young adult life. Hormone-sensitive lipolysis is lost with age. Food restriction from 6 weeks of age prevents this loss, and food restriction started in adult life causes the recovery of this lipolysis. Hormone binding studies reveal that: (a) changes in glucagon-stimulated lipolysis parallel changes in glucagon binding; (b) glucagon binding and glucagon-stimulated lipolysis correlate inversely with cell size; (c) changes in epinephrine-stimulated lipolysis are not due to changes in beta-adrenergic binding; and (d) neither beta-adrenergic binding nor epinephrine-promoted lipolysis correlate with fat cell size. Phosphodiesterase activity is not influenced by diet, making it unlikely to be a postreceptor component lost with age.
Pathogenicity of rotavirus in rabbits.	The role of rotavirus in diarrheal disease of rabbits was investigated, and a model for human rotavirus infection was established. Orogastric inoculation of 8- and 12-week-old New Zealand White rabbits with a rabbit strain of rotavirus (L:ALA:84) resulted in fecal shedding of virus for 6 to 8 days from 2 to 5 days after inoculation. Most rabbits exhibited diarrhea, coincident with the onset of viral shedding, which persisted for 2 to 4 days. Diarrhea was characterized by soft or fluid stools and fecal staining of the perineum. Inoculation of 3-week-old rabbits resulted in a briefer period of viral shedding and diarrhea of a milder nature. Histopathologic examination during the period of viral shedding revealed a mild, nonsuppurative enteritis. Inoculated rabbits exhibited antibodies in serum to rotavirus by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Sham-inoculated or uninoculated rabbits maintained in the same cage or the same room with inoculated rabbits acquired rotavirus infection. The mild diarrheal disease which resulted with a rotavirus isolate from severe field cases suggests that cofactors were involved.
Calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate as second messengers for vasopressin in the rat inner medullary collecting duct.	Vasopressin increases both the urea permeability and osmotic water permeability in the terminal part of the renal inner medullary collecting duct (terminal IMCD). To identify the second messengers that mediate these responses, we measured urea permeability, osmotic water permeability, intracellular calcium concentration, and cyclic AMP accumulation in isolated terminal IMCDs. After addition of vasopressin, a transient rise in intracellular calcium occurred that was coincident with increases in cyclic AMP accumulation and urea permeability. Half-maximal increases in urea permeability and osmotic water permeability occurred with 0.01 nM vasopressin. The threshold concentration for a measurable increase in cyclic AMP accumulation was approximately 0.01 nM, while measurable increases in intracellular calcium required much higher vasopressin concentrations (greater than 0.1 nM). Exogenous cyclic AMP (1 mM 8-Br-cAMP) mimicked the effect of vasopressin on urea permeability but did not produce a measurable change in intracellular calcium concentration.
Biochemical and functional responses stimulated by platelet-activating factor in murine peritoneal macrophages.	Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent stimulant of leukocytes, including macrophages. To analyze the mechanisms of its effects upon macrophages, we determined whether macrophages bear specific surface receptors for PAF. By competitive radioactive binding assays, we determined two classes of specific receptors to be present on purified membranes derived from murine peritoneal macrophages (one having a Kd of approximately 1 X 10(-10) M and one a Kd of approximately 2 X 10(-9) M). When the macrophages were incubated with PAF, rapid formation of several inositol phosphates including inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate were observed. PAF also elevated intracellular levels of calcium to 290 +/- 27% of basal levels which were 82.7 +/- 12 nM. Increases in calcium were observed first in submembranous areas of the macrophages. PAF also led to increases of 1,2-diacylglycerol of approximately 200 pmol/10(7) cells. A characteristic pattern of enhanced protein phosphorylation, similar to that initiated by both phorbol 12,13-myristate and lipopolysaccharide, was observed and involved enhanced phosphorylation of proteins of 28, 33, 67, and 103 kD. The half-maximal dose of PAF for initiating all the above effects was approximately 5 X 10(-9) M. PAF also initiated significant chemotaxis of the cells; the half-maximal dose for this effect was approximately 1 X 10(-11) M. Taken together, these observations suggest that murine mononuclear phagocytes bear specific membrane receptors for PAF and that addition of PAF leads to generation of break-down products of polyphosphoinositides, subsequent changes in intracellular calcium and protein phosphorylation, and chemotaxis.
Changes in autacoid and neuropeptide contents of lung cells in asbestos-induced pulmonary fibrosis.	The purpose of this study was to determine if asbestos-induced pulmonary fibrosis in the rat can affect the levels of autacoids and peptides in freshly isolated lung cells. Lung fibrosis was experimentally induced in rats by a single intratracheal instillation of 5 mg UICC Canadian chrysotile B fibers. Isolated lung cells were prepared from normal and from asbestos-exposed rats. These cells were also fractionated on bovine serum albumin (BSA) gradients. The contents of serotonin (5-HT), histamine (HIST), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and bombesin (BN) were measured in isolated total cell preparations as well as in density-fractionated cell populations from normal and from asbestos-exposed rats. Analysis of total lung cell preparation showed the presence of heterogeneous populations in normal rat lung. After asbestos exposure, there were significant changes in these cell populations as evidenced by significant increases in lymphocyte and mast cell numbers. In addition, increased levels of 5-HT, HIST, and VIP were observed in isolated lung cells obtained from rats exposed to asbestos 1, 3, and 6 months after instillation. BN content was unchanged 3 months after treatment, but was significantly increased at the 6 month-interval, suggesting a different pattern of response for this neuropeptide. Density fractionation of various cell populations further showed selective changes in specific cell fractions of lung after asbestos exposure. At 6 months, increased levels of 5-HT, HIST, and VIP were associated with cell fraction 7, whereas changes in BN content were found in cell fractions 2 and 3. Similarly, there was a significant increase of mast cells in fraction 7 at the 6-month interval.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of stress and trauma on bacterial translocation from the gut.	Previously, we established that bacteria contained within the gut can cross the GI mucosal barrier and spread systemically, a process termed bacterial translocation. Three models were used to extend this work: cold exposure (up to 16 hr at 4 degrees C), a nontissue injury stress model; femoral fracture-amputation, a trauma model; and thermal injury (30% third-degree burn), a trauma model with retained necrotic tissue. CD-1 mice either with a normal GI microflora or who were monoassociated with Escherichia coli C-25 were subjected to sham or actual stress or trauma. The animals were sacrificed at various times postinsult and the ceca, mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), spleens, and livers were quantitatively cultured. Neither the incidence nor the magnitude of bacterial translocation was increased in the cold-exposed animals compared to control mice. The incidence of bacterial translocation to the systemic organs was higher in the animals with a normal flora receiving femoral fracture amputation (11%) (P less than 0.02) than in animals receiving a thermal injury (1%) or sham-injured control mice (0%). In contrast, the incidence of translocation to the liver or spleen was higher in burned mice monoassociated with E. coli C-25 (60%) (P less than 0.01) than in E. coli monoassociated mice sustaining femoral fracture amputation (17%). Stress alone (cold exposure) does not promote bacterial translocation; however, trauma, especially in combination with retained necrotic tissue, promotes bacterial translocation. Thus bacteria colonizing the gut can invade systemic organs after trauma, especially when the normal ecology of the gut flora has been disrupted.
A model of pulmonary granulomata induced by beryllium sulfate in the rat.	In humans beryllium is known to cause pulmonary granulomata which are histologically indistinguishable from sarcoidosis. There is some evidence in man that beryllium-induced pulmonary granulomata are immunologically mediated. We set out to develop an animal model to study the immunopathogenesis of beryllium-induced granulomatous lung disease. Beryllium sulfate (BeSO4) was injected intratracheally (i.t.) into F344 rats previously immunized to BeSO4. This results in well-formed, sarcoid-like lung granulomata at 6 weeks post BeSO4. There was a conspicuous presence at 4 weeks post BeSO4 of numerous, perivascularly located Langhans' giant cells which preceded the development of well-formed granulomas at 6 weeks. Rats were sacrificed at 4, 6, 8 and 12 weeks after i.t. BeSO4. At the time of sacrifice bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed; B and T (W3/25+ helper 0X8+ suppressor/cytotoxic) lymphocyte populations were quantitated and compared to lymphocyte populations obtained from lung tissue. Both B and T cells were significantly elevated in lung tissue post BeSO4. At 4 weeks when granulomata were just developing, a W3/25+ to 0X8+ ratio of 20:1 in lavage and 2:1 in lung tissue was seen. At 6 weeks when granulomata were well-formed there was a predominance of W3/25+ cells in lavage but not in lung tissue. At 8 and 12 weeks, when the granulomata were regressing, lavage fluid still contained a W3/25+ predominance in contrast to lung tissue which contained a predominance of 0X8+ cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinical, haematological and plasma biochemical changes in specified-pathogen-free (sporozoa) lambs experimentally infected with low numbers of Sarcocystis tenella sporocysts.	Two groups of lambs raised free of sporozoan infection were inoculated with Sarcocystis tenella sporocysts and compared with controls. Lambs from Group 1 were inoculated with 5000 sporocysts and those in Group 2 were given 20,000. Transient increases in rectal temperatures occurred between 23 and 39 days post-inoculation (dpi), although the lambs appeared normal and retained their appetites. Packed cell volumes (PCV) of lambs given 20,000 sporocysts decreased dramatically from 28 to 38 dpi after which they slowly returned to near pre-inoculation levels by 99 dpi. The anaemia was normocytic/normochromic. White cell counts (WCC) rose in infected lambs from 49 dpi, reflecting principally an increase in lymphocyte numbers. Plasma albumin of Group 2 decreased at 28 dpi and remained depressed until the experiment was terminated at 99 dpi. Plasma globulin of infected groups increased from 31 (Group 2) and 35 dpi (Group 1). Plasma alkaline phosphatase (ALP) of Group 2 decreased from 28 dpi and remained depressed to 99 dpi. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) of Group 2 was elevated at 24 and 28 dpi and from 42 to 78 dpi, while aspartate aminotransferase (AST) of the same group was elevated from 45 to 66 dpi. Creatine kinase (CK) of Group 2 was elevated from 52 to 71 dpi.
Sources of rats free of latent Pneumocystis carinii.	Two sources of rats free of latent Pneumocystis carinii are described. First, rats from a virus-free colony failed to develop infection after 8 weeks of immune suppression unless they were housed with previously infected rats. Second, pregnant rats (non-virus free) received trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole from day 10 of gestation until the pups were weaned. Pups raised in filter-topped cages and immunosuppressed for 8 weeks were free of P. carinii infection.
Comparison of detection procedures for Chlamydia trachomatis, including enzyme immunoassays, in a mouse model of genital infection.	Two chlamydial enzyme immunoassays, Chlamydiazyme and IDEIA, were evaluated in a mouse model of chlamydial genital-tract infection. The Chlamydiazyme assay and the IDEIA were assessed on specimens from 10 and 11 mice, respectively. The animals were infected with Chlamydia trachomatis, strain SA2f, and the results obtained by these methods on vaginal specimens taken on 4 or 5 occasions during 41-42 days were compared with those obtained in cell culture and to a less extent by the MicroTrak direct immunofluorescence test. In comparison with culture, the Chlamydiazyme assay had a sensitivity of 62% and a specificity of 92%; IDEIA had a sensitivity of 76% and a specificity of 94%. These assays sometimes did not detect chlamydiae in specimens taken immediately before specimens which proved positive by culture and the immunoassays were less sensitive if swabs were taken after those for culture. The IDEIA also failed to detect chlamydiae in the late stage of the murine infection when chlamydial elementary bodies were seen by immunofluorescence. The implications of the observations for investigations in the human field as well as for further studies in the mouse are discussed.
Experiments on rats exposed in the Cosmos 1667 biosatellite (goals, protocols, results)]	Morphobiochemical investigations of the rats flown on the biosatellite Cosmos-1667 have shown that the 7-day space flight produces shifts in different systems, organs and tissues which reflect adaptive processes to microgravity. Early signs of structural, functional and metabolic rearrangement can be detected in the musculoskeletal apparatus, hemopoietic system, lymphoid organs, neurohormonal systems, i.e., in the systems and organs that develop changes during long-term flights. The rates of adaptation to microgravity are different not only in various systems and organs but also within the same tissues. Most shifts that emerge at an early stage of adaptation to microgravity progress with flight time but some of them develop to a full extent after the 7-day flight. The specific feature of the early stage of adaptation to microgravity is the lack of significant changes in blood biochemistry in the presence of structural and metabolic changes in tissues. This fact gives evidence that the mechanisms maintaining homeostasis at the organism level are not as yet disrupted during 7 days of flight.
Mycobacterium avium-complex infections in normal and immunodeficient mice.	Specific pathogen-free C57Bl/6 X DBA/2 (B6D2) F1 hybrid mice were challenged aerogenically with M. avium, M. intracellulare and M. scrofulaceum and the resulting lung and spleen infections were followed over a period of several months. Growth of the mouse virulent M. avium 724 and M. intracellulare D673 was more extensive in the susceptible (Balb/c or C57Bl/6) mice than it was in the resistant A/J and B6D2 strains. Oral challenge of normal C57Bl/6 mice with virulent M. avium-complex serotypes resulted in substantial infection of the gut-associated lymphoid tissues, the lungs and spleen. No infection developed when the mice were infected orally with the avirulent MAC serotypes. T-cell depleted Balb/c (nude or Thxb) mice infected with virulent M. avium developed markedly enhanced lung and spleen infections compared to those seen in the immunocompetent controls. T-cell depletion did not potentiate the systemic growth of the avirulent MAC strains. The significance of these growth patterns (especially in the T-cell depleted mouse) is discussed in relation to the development of life-threatening M. avium-complex infections in patients with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
Life cycle of Tritrichomonas muris.	Morphological and physiological studies were carried out on a flagellate, Tritrichomonas muris, in golden hamsters. The experiments confirmed that a pseudocyst and an intermediate form exist in addition to the trophozoite in the life cycle; furthermore it was shown that the pseudocyst was the infective stage, and that a true cyst did not occur.
Inhibition of tumor metastasis of Lewis lung carcinoma in C57BL/6 mice by intrapleural administration of Lactobacillus casei.	The antimetastatic effect of Lactobacillus casei YIT9018 (LC 9018) against Lewis lung carcinoma (3LL) in C57BL/6 mice was determined. Intrapleural (i.pl.) administration of LC 9018 was effective in inhibiting pulmonary metastasis after s.c. inoculation of 3LL tumors into C57BL/6 mice. The combination of i.pl. and intralesional or i.v. injections of LC 9018 also markedly inhibited pulmonary metastasis in 3LL-bearing mice. The i.pl. administration of LC 9018 into mice induced an increase in the number of thoracic exudate cells (TEC) and the cell population in the TEC was mainly polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the early stage, while macrophages were dominant in the late stage. In addition, in vitro cytolytic activity against 3LL cells and natural killer cell activity of TEC were augmented by the i.pl. administration of LC 9018. Furthermore, i.pl. administration of LC 9018 into the mice rendered their lung macrophages tumoricidal for 3LL cells in vitro. These results show that TEC induced by i.pl. administration of LC 9018 played a key role in the inhibition of metastasis in 3LL-bearing mice.
Diagnosis of murine mycoplasmal infections by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).	ELISA is the currently accepted method for screening rodent colonies for Mycoplasma pulmonis infection. While this assay has greatly improved mycoplasmal detection, it suffers from major defects. Cross-reactions with M. arthritidis are the major technical problem, and prevent definitive diagnosis. Current methods for obtaining a definitive diagnosis are accurate in about 80% of cases, and include ELISA testing for both organisms, immunoblot analysis, and blocking of the murine reaction with heterologous serum. Another technical difficulty is the inherent variability in the assay, which can be overcome by rigid quality control measures and careful attention to detail. The difficulties that arise from the natural history of mycoplasmal infection in barrier-maintained colonies, i.e., low incidence of infected animals and delayed antibody response in animals infected with low numbers of organisms, seriously limit the usefulness of the ELISA. While the assay can be extremely useful in screening breeding colonies and in eliminating mycoplasmas from such colonies, it cannot easily be used to screen potential sources of weanling animals for experimental use.
Efficacy of avian influenza oil-emulsion vaccines in chickens of various ages.	An experimental avian influenza (AI) oil-emulsion vaccine was formulated with 1 part inactivated A/turkey/Wisconsin/68 (H5N9) AI virus emulsified in 4 parts oil. Broilers were vaccinated subcutaneously (SC) either at 1 or 3 days old or at 4 or 5 wks old. Commercial white leghorn (WL) layers were vaccinated SC at 12 and 20 wks old or at only 20 wks old. Maximum geometric mean hemagglutination-inhibition titers postvaccination (PV) were 1:86-1:320 for broilers, 1:597 for twice-vaccinated layers, and 1:422 for once-vaccinated layers. Ninety to 100% of vaccinated broilers were protected against death and morbidity when challenged with highly pathogenic A/chicken/Penn/83 (H5N2) AI virus 4 weeks PV, and all were protected when challenged 8 wks PV. All controls and most vaccinates were infected by challenge virus, and 90-100% of controls died or exhibited clinical signs. Vaccinated commercial pullets were protected against morbidity, death, and egg-production decline at either peak of lay (25 wks old) or at 55 wks old. All unvaccinated controls became morbid or died, and egg production ceased 72 hours after challenge. The 0.5-ml vaccine dose was determined to contain 251 and 528 mean protective doses (PD50S) in 4-wk-old and 1-year-old SPF WL chickens, respectively, challenged 4 wks PV.
Pathological changes of tracheal mucosa in chickens infected with lentogenic Newcastle disease virus.	Forty-day-old specific-pathogen-free chickens were exposed by aerosol to lentogenic Newcastle disease virus (NDV) and observed for 24 days for pathological changes in the tracheal mucociliary system. Specific fluorescence of NDV antigen was observed through day 5 postexposure (PE) in the cytoplasm of the tracheal epithelium and desquamated epithelium in the lumen. On day 1 PE, scanning electron microscopy revealed hypertrophy of goblet cells and small patches of the deciliated epithelium scattered mainly around the openings of mucous glands. The deciliated area of tracheal surface increased through day 4 PE. Light microscopy showed small vacuoles containing lymphocytes and heterophils in the epithelial layer. Immature epithelium proliferated in some areas. On days 5 and 6 PE, ciliated areas of the trachea tended to increase as a result of regeneration of the epithelium, still leaving many nonciliated patches of various sizes. On and after day 8 PE, there remained plaques with nonciliated flat epithelium, but most areas were covered with well-ciliated epithelium. Non-ciliated plaques were observed until day 24 PE, but they gradually decreased in size. These plaques were covered by a single layer of flat epithelium and were formed upon lymph follicles in subepithelial tissue.
Effects of Pasteurella multocida endotoxins on turkey poults.	Studies of turkey poult responses to Pasteurella multocida endotoxins indicated that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) preparations from two highly pathogenic strains and free endotoxin from one of these strains were all similar in lethal toxicity. Lethal intravenous doses were generally high, 1 mg or more for 1-week-old poults (13.3 mg/kg). The toxic effects of LPS were not increased by repeated administration of small hourly doses. For both forms of endotoxin, the relationship between dose and response was considered erratic. Attempts to increase the susceptibility of poults to LPS by administering a liver-damaging substance (galactosamine) or a histamine-releasing substance (compound 48/80) or by performing surgical bursectomy were not effective. The LPS did not provoke a dermal Shwartzman reaction, even though doses used were 10 times those that produced a characteristic reaction in a rabbit.
Further efficacy studies on inactivated, aluminum-hydroxide-adsorbed vaccines against infectious coryza.	Specific-pathogen-free chickens were given infectious coryza vaccines containing inactivated cells of Haemophilus paragallinarum adsorbed onto an aluminum-hydroxide gel. The vaccines were protective when given subcutaneously or intramuscularly but not when given intranasally. Vaccines prepared with two different commercial brands of aluminum-hydroxide gel gave similar protection. Vaccines in which the inactivating agent was thimerosal were more protective than similar vaccines in which the inactivating agent was formalin. Monovalent vaccines protected against challenge only from organisms of the same agglutination serovar, whereas bivalent vaccines protected against challenge from organisms of either serovar. A single dose of the vaccine, given at 16 weeks of age, was not as effective as two doses given at 12 and 16 weeks of age in protecting against challenge 12, 25, or 56 weeks after vaccination.
Comparison of hemagglutination-inhibition, agar gel precipitin, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for measuring antibodies against influenza viruses in chickens.	Individual variations in serological response to avian influenza virus infection were demonstrated after experimental infection of specific-pathogen-free chickens with H6N2 influenza virus. Homologous antibodies were detected from the 6th to the 157th day after infection using hemagglutination-inhibition or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and from the 11th to the 157th day by agar gel precipitation test.
Serological and pathological studies of Newcastle disease viruses isolated from caged birds from Southeast Asia.	Eleven isolates of Newcastle disease virus (NDV), from caged birds imported from or captured in Southeast Asia in 1979-80, were antigenically divided into five distinct groups. Most of them were distinguishable from more classical NDVs (vaccine B1 strain and Miyadera strain) on the basis of their reactivity to eight monoclonal antibodies against the HN molecule of NDV in hemagglutination-inhibition tests. However, when three representative isolates were evaluated for their biological properties and pathogenicity against 1-day-old chickens, all three were found to be velogenic types that could induce serious symptoms of Newcastle disease and which eventually killed all of the chickens, regardless of the route of infection. There was not any significant correlation between their reactivity patterns with the monoclonal antibodies and their virulence.
Pathogenicity and cross-protection of pigeon paramyxovirus-1 and Newcastle disease virus in young chickens.	Avian paramyxovirus-1 (PMV-1) isolates from Delaware racing pigeons were compared with Newcastle disease virus (NDV) in pathogenicity and cross-protection studies in young chickens. The pathogenicity of pigeon PMV-1 isolates was more closely related to mesogenic (Roakin) NDV than to lentogenic (La Sota) or velogenic (Texas GB) NDV strains. Pigeon PMV-1 produced 100% mortality in 1-day-old NDV-susceptible chickens following intratracheal and intracerebral inoculation. Laboratory tests often used in conjunction with chicken pathogenicity procedures for patho-typing NDV gave conflicting results. Pigeon PMV-1 isolates produced large clear plaques (up to 3.5 mm) in chicken-embryo-fibroblast cultures. Chicken embryo mean death times were considerably greater for pigeon PMV-1 (88 and 109 hr) than for Roakin (66 hr) and Texas GB (48 hr). B1 strain NDV and pigeon PMV-1 produced complete cross-protection in challenge studies in chickens. Extensive cross-reaction between pigeon PMV-1 and NDV occurred in hemagglutination-inhibition tests using polyclonal antisera. However, pigeon PMV-1 and NDV were readily distinguishable using a NDV monoclonal antibody, 2F12.
Effect of a local immune reaction on peripheral blood polymorphonuclear neutrophil microbicidal function: studies with fungal targets.	Peripheral blood polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) from mice immunized with Blastomyces dermatitidis and then stimulated locally (intraperitoneally, ip) with B. dermatitidis antigen had enhanced killing of B. dermatitidis in vitro (54.4 +/- 19.49 of inoculum) compared to nonimmune mice (32.7 +/- 8.7%; P less than 0.02), nonimmune mice given antigen ip (30.6 +/- 14.0%; P less than 0.05), or immune mice not given antigen ip (15.4 +/- 9.9%; P less than 0.01). Peripheral blood PMN from all four groups had marked killing ability against Candida albicans (91.8-99.3% of inoculum). That the killing of B. dermatitidis was due to PMNs was demonstrated by lack of killing by isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells from all four groups. A local immune reaction can result in enhancement of PMN fungicidal activity, and this is reflected even in peripheral blood PMN. We hypothesize this is an important component of normal host defenses against fungal infection, and likely other microbial infections. Enhancement of PMN microbicidal function by the soluble mediators presumed to be responsible for the effects observed may be an approach to immunomodulating therapy or prophylaxis of infection.
Insulin-induced translocation of glucose transporters in rat hindlimb muscles.	Insulin causes a translocation of glucose transporters from intracellular microsomes to the plasma membrane in adipocytes. To determine whether insulin has a similar effect in rat hindlimb muscles, we used glucose-inhibitable cytochalasin B binding to estimate the number of glucose transporters in membrane fractions from insulinized and control muscles. Insulin treatment caused an approx. 2-fold increase in cytochalasin B-binding sites in a plasma membrane fraction and an approx. 70% decrease in cytochalasin B-binding sites in an intracellular membrane fraction. In order to detect this effect of insulin, it was necessary to develop a procedure for isolating a plasma membrane fraction and an intracellular membrane fraction that were not contaminated with sarcoplasmic reticulum. Our results show that, as in adipocytes, insulin stimulates translocation of glucose transporters from an intracellular membrane pool to the plasma membrane in hindlimb skeletal muscles.
Potentiation of central effects of L-dopa by an inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase.	The effects of a COMT-inhibitor, U-0521, and a MAO-B-inhibitor, 1-deprenyl, on L-dopa-induced circling behaviour were compared in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The actions of U-0521 and 1-deprenyl on the anti-cataleptic effect of L-dopa were also studied. Both U-0521 and 1-deprenyl were found to potentiate L-dopa-induced circling behaviour and anti-cataleptic effect of L-dopa. In both test systems the L-dopa potentiation of 1-deprenyl was longer-lasting than that caused by U-0521. Thus inhibition of COMT, like inhibition of MAO, is able to enhance the central effects of L-dopa. This principle might be beneficial in the treatment of Parkinson's disease especially if COMT-inhibitors with greater performance can be developed.
Diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam are found in rat brain and adrenal and may be of plant origin.	Benzodiazepine-binding inhibitory (BBI) activity was detected in aqueous extracts of brain and peripheral tissues of rats. The BBI activity in brain and in adrenals was, at least partially, due to the presence of N-desmethyldiazepam and diazepam as shown by HPLC, UV-spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. In addition, BBI activity was found in standardized rat food, as well as in a variety of cereals and in other nutritive plant products. In wheat grains diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam could be identified by HPLC and analysis by gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry. The estimated amounts of the two benzodiazepines present in rat brain and adrenals and in wheat grains were in the low ppb range. Since laboratory contamination was rigorously excluded we conclude that diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam are naturally occurring compounds. These findings may explain their occurrence in the brain and adrenals of animals.
Activation of murine natural autocytolytic cells which phagocytize normal autologous leukocytes.	We previously described that natural autocytolytic cells (NACs) which were detected in the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) of normal mice, did lyse leukocytes contained in the same lymph nodes. Discrete plaques were observed in monolayers of leukocytes prepared in wells of a microculture plate by NACs phagocytizing and lysing other leukocytes. A large NAC which was morphologically similar to macrophage was found in the middle of each plaque. The mechanisms of autocytolysis by NACs were further investigated in the present study. In contrast to various types of autocytotoxic cells reported previously, for which the incubation with fetal calf serum (FCS) was a prerequisite, the NACs showed their cytolytic activity even in serum-free medium. This excluded the possible "sensitization" by FCS proteins in vitro. The presence of the phagocytosis inhibitor cytochalasin B eliminated the autocytolysis. The peroxide scavenger thioglycollate broth had no effect on the formation of autocytolytic plaques. These results further support the previous finding that autocytolytic plaques were formed by NACs phagocytizing other leukocytes. Autologous nonadherent spleen cells and erythrocytes were also phagocytized by MLN-NACs with plastic adherent characteristics. Ia antigen was demonstrated on the surface of an approximately half population of NACs but neither Thy-1.2 antigen nor immunoglobulins. NACs may represent a subpopulation of macrophages, although the majority of adherent, phagocytic macrophages did not show the NAC activity. The endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Escherichia coli was apparently able to activate MLN-NACs of BALB/c mice in vivo when injected intraperitoneally at a dose of 10 micrograms/ml. A peak of the NAC activity was observed 3 days after the injection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Protection against lethal measles virus infection in mice by immune-stimulating complexes containing the hemagglutinin or fusion protein.	The importance of each of the two surface glycoproteins of measles virus in active and passive immunization was examined in mice. Infected-cell lysates were depleted of either the hemagglutinin (H) or fusion (F) glycoprotein by using multiple cycles of immunoaffinity chromatography. The products were used to prepare immune-stimulating complexes (iscoms) containing either F or H glycoprotein. Such complexes are highly immunogenic, possibly as a result of effective presentation of viral proteins to the immune system [B. Morein, B. Sundquist, S. Hglund, K. Dalsgaard, and A. Osterhaus, Nature (London) 308:457-460, 1984]. Groups of 3-week-old BALB/c mice were inoculated with the iscom preparations. All animals developed hemolysis-inhibiting antibodies, whereas only sera of animals immunized with the iscoms containing the H glycoprotein had hemagglutination-inhibiting antibodies. Sera from animals immunized with the H or F preparation only precipitated the homologous glycoprotein in radioimmune precipitation assays. The immunized animals were challenged with a lethal dose of the hamster neurotropic variant of measles virus. Of the 7-week-old animals in the nonimmunized control group, 50% died within 10 days after challenge. No animals in the immunized groups showed symptoms of disease throughout the observation period of 3 months. Passive administration of anti-H monoclonal antibodies gave full protection against the 100% lethal acute infection with the hamster neurotropic variant of measles virus in newborn mice, whereas anti-F monoclonal antibodies failed to protect the animals. This study emphasizes that both H and F glycoproteins need to be considered in the development of measles virus subunit vaccines.
Experimental candidiasis in liver injury.	In an attempt to evaluate effects of liver injury and roles of iron metabolism on systemic fungal infection, experimental systemic Candida infection was produced in mice with galactosamine-induced liver injury. Survival rate and extent of fungal lesion are compared between mice with liver injury (Group 1) and ones without liver injury (Group 2). Median survival was 7 and 18 days in Group 1 and 2 respectively after 21 days observation. Mortality rate of Group 1 was significantly higher (P = 0.05) than that of Group 2. This difference was reflected to the extent of fungal lesions in that they were extensive and disseminated, involving the multiple organs in Group 1 but predominantly localized to the kidneys in Group 2. UIBC (unbound iron binding capacity) and TIBC (total iron binding capacity), i.e., serum transferrin as well as serum iron levels were significantly lower in Group 1 as compared with those in Group 2. These results indicate that hepatic injury promotes Candida infection in vivo and suggest that increased susceptibility to Candida in the presence of liver injury is, at least partially, attributable to low UIBC and/or TIBC.
Estimation of tumor oxygenation and metabolic rate using 31P MRS: correlation of longitudinal relaxation with tumor growth rate and DNA synthesis.	31P MRS longitudinal relaxation times (T1) were determined for C3H murine fibrosarcomas (FSaII), and mammary carcinomas (MCaIV). Tumors were implanted in the foot dorsum, and were 100-300 mm3 in volume. T1s were repeated after the animal was allowed to breathe 100% oxygen for 30 min and then again 36-48 hr following 30 Gy. The spectrum were obtained using an 8.5 T spectrometer with a 8 cm bore and a 1.4 cm single turn antenna coil. The 31P relaxation times for untreated tumors in air breathing animals were: 3.78 sec for phosphomonoesters, 4.37 sec for inorganic phosphate (Pi), 2.73 sec for phosphocreatine, 1.37 sec for gamma ATP, 1.14 sec for alpha ATP, and 1.18 sec for beta ATP. The Pi T1s were 4.37 and 4.70 sec in control and irradiated tumors in air breathing animals. Respiration of oxygen for 30 min reduced the T1s to 3.02 and 2.62 sec in control and irradiated tumors respectively. The Pi T1 of an anoxic tumor, determined on an in situ tumor 60 min after death was 5.93 sec. The oxygen breathing induced decrease in the T1 of Pi is unlikely to have been caused by the paramagnetic properties of oxygen alone, and suggests a component of increased magnetization transfer secondary to the ATPase reaction. Oxygen breathing following 30 Gy, resulted in a decreased growth time (800 mm3 endpoint) and an increased proportion of cells in S-phase. These results support the hypothesis that the decrease in Pi T1 measured with oxygen breathing is a measure of tumor oxygen tension and metabolic rate, and suggests that T1 measurement may indirectly predict tumor growth rate and DNA synthesis.
A study of the age-related acceleration of glycation of tissue proteins in rats.	The relationship between age-related glycation and a fluorescent product attributable to the advanced Maillard reaction was investigated in the aortas of rats between 4 and 120 weeks of age. The early-stage product of the Maillard reaction was measured using furosine (epsilon-N-(2-furoylmethyl)-L-lysine) as a marker. The advanced product was measured by fluorescence high-performance liquid chromatography. The level of furosine in the aorta increased with aging to reach a maximum value in rats of 50 to 70 weeks of age, and decreased in rats from 90 to 120 weeks of age. By contrast, the level of the putative advanced product reached a maximum in 90-week-old rats and remained at the maximum level in 120-week-old rats. The level of glycated hemoglobin showed no significant change in rats of more than 14 weeks of age. The advanced Maillard products may play an important role in the pathophysiology of aging arteries.
The effect of campylobacter lipopolysaccharide on fetal development in the mouse.	Purified lipopolysaccharide (LPS) obtained from isolates of Campylobacter fetus ss. fetus and Campylobacter jejuni impaired fetal development when administered to mice on day 13 of pregnancy. Strikingly more fetal resorption was produced by C. jejuni LPS than by similar amounts of C. fetus ss. fetus LPS. Three of the four Campylobacter strains examined produced LPS that had no effect on maternal health, but LPS from one C. jejuni strain killed all of the mice to which it was administered.
Density-gradient sedimentation of feline bone marrow cells with polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated silica gel.	Feline bone marrow cells were separated based on their density distribution in a continuous polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated silica gel density gradient. Morphologic identification of cytocentrifuged preparations at specific densities revealed a progressive increase in density with maturation of the cells within the granulocytic and erythroid series. Segmented eosinophils peaked at 1.084 g/ml, monocytes at 1.07 g/ml, and lymphocytes spanned the density of 1.068 to 1.084 g/ml. Bone marrow samples from 6 healthy specific-pathogen-free cats were separated by the continuous polyvinyl-pyrrolidone-coated silica gel gradient and were studied for progenitor colony formation in methylcellulose. Erythroid colony formation was greatest at a density of 1.084 g/ml and also appeared in cells from 4 cats at a lighter density of 1.016 to 1.05 g/ml. Colony formation in the granulocytic series revealed progenitors throughout the gradient with enrichment at 1.055 g/ml.
Polymorphonuclear leukocyte dysfunction associated with feline leukaemia virus infection.	The chemiluminescent characteristics of enriched (greater than 95%) peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocyte populations (PMN) from normal and feline leukaemia virus (FeLV)-infected cats were investigated. FeLV-infected cats demonstrated a significantly lower (P less than 0.001) PMN chemiluminescent response when compared to the response of normal age-matched controls. Normal PMN treated with FeLV-infected cat serum exhibited a depressed response in comparison to control cells. A titration of serum from infected cats supplemented with normal serum revealed a titratable suppression of chemiluminescence with increasing concentration of serum from the infected cats. However, PMN from FeLV-infected cats treated with normal serum displayed a slight increase in chemiluminescence over the same cells in autologous serum. The addition of inactivated FeLV to normal PMN caused a titratable decrease in chemiluminescence.
Report of IABS committee on avian product standardization.	The International Association of Biological Standardization (IABS) organized an international symposium in August 1973 on the "Requirements for Poultry Virus Vaccines" at Lyon (France). The Proceedings of this symposium were subsequently published as "Developments in Biological Standardization", volume 25. At the conclusion of this symposium, it was resolved that an Avian Biological Products Standardization Committee should be established, this committee including four subcommittees, each under the direction of a chairman who would be responsible to make a report on his own subject. The four subjects are: specific pathogen freedom (SPF), infectious bronchitis, Marek's disease, Newcastle disease. The work established by the Committee is presented.
Lead, cadmium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, calcium and magnesium in SPF male rats exposed to a dilution of automotive exhaust gas throughout their lives.	Male pathogen free CFE albino Sprague Dawley rats were exposed 8 h per day, 5 days per week, for three years to a 1/1000 dilution of automotive exhaust gas, containing 58 ppm carbon monoxide, 0.37% carbon dioxide, 23 ppm nitrogen oxides, 2 ppm aldehydes, less than 5 mg/l hydrocarbons and 8.5 micrograms/m3 lead. Lead, cadmium, iron, zinc, calcium and magnesium were measured by atomic absorption in the femurs and tibias of the rats which died during the experiment. A comparison with two control groups revealed that the only significant difference in the elements measured in the bones was a 500% increase in lead concentration. The calculations of the correlations between the percentages of the elements in bones, the ages and the body weights of the rats, as well as cluster analysis, did not show consistent variations of the water, calcium, magnesium concentrations nor of the other studied metals related to this increase in lead concentration. Moreover, longevity was the same in the 3 groups of rats, but the body weight was statistically smaller (4%) in the group exposed to the auto exhaust dilution.
Experimental canine parvovirus infection in dogs.	In specific pathogen-free dogs, clinical signs of experimental canine parvovirus infection were mild, inconsistent and transient. Clinical signs were more pronounced in conventionally-raised dogs, but the severe disease reported in field cases was not reproduced in either group. A pronounced plasma viremia occurred on the 2nd to 4th day post-infection (d.p.i.) in dogs challenged oronasally. Antibody was detectable on the 5th d.p.i. Marked pyrexia was rare, but a significant temperature rise usually coincided with the appearance of antibody and the cessation of viremia. Significant lymphopenia, but not leukopenia, occurred on the 3rd to 7th d.p.i. Virus could be readily isolated from fecal matter on the 3rd to 8th d.p.i.; a few dogs continued to shed virus for up to 12 days. In dogs challenged parenterally, the onset of elevated temperatures, viral shed and antibody production occurred 24-48 hours sooner. Convalescent dogs were no longer contagious for susceptible contact animals 25 days or longer after challenge, although infectious virus persisted in feces for more than 6 months at room temperature. Active giardiasis seemed to exacerbate the clinical syndrome, although treatment with corticosteroids or anti-thymocyte serum did not.
Skin-graft histocompatibility within Regional Poultry Research Laboratory inbred chicken lines.	Skin grafts were exchanged between specific-pathogen-free chicks within the Regional Poultry Research Laboratory (RPRL) inbred lines that are characterized for retrovirus susceptibility and immunogenetic traits. Lines 61 and 63 were histocompatible whereas lines 15I4 and 15I5 were nearly histocompatible. The RPRL Line 7(2) is only histocompatible within families at present, and line 100 has considerable heterogeneity for minor histoantigens. Reaseheath Line C (RH-C) has been established at the RPRL and its histocompatible. Numerous males in lines 6(1), 6(3), 15I4, and RH-C are able to reject female grafts containing the female-specific histoantigen. Two Ea-B alleles in 15I4 previously detected by blood-typing determined rapid skin graft rejection.
Gut reactions of radioactive nitrite after intratracheal administration in mice.	Intratracheal administration to mice of radioactive nitrite labeled with nitrogen-13 (13NO2-) (half-life, 9.96 minutes) in dosages that do not cause pharmacological perturbation reveals that oxidative and reductive reactions occur in different organs. Oxidation of 13NO2- to radioactive nitrate (13NO3-) predominates in the blood and liver. Reduction of 13NO2- occurs in those mice that harbor intestinal microflora; this reduction does not occur in germ-free mice. The intestinal reduction products include ammonium, glutamate, glutamine, and urea. With a detection limit of about 0.01 percent of the instilled nitrogen-13, no labeled nitrosamines were detected within 30 minutes. Reduced nitrogen-13 is transported out of the intensive into the circulatory system and appears in the urine along with 13NO3-. The biological half-period for 13NO2- destruction is about 7 minutes, and both oxidation and reduction products are formed.
Isolation of ureaplasmas from poultry and experimental infection in chickens.	Ureaplasmas were isolated from the oropharynxes of 47 of 247 (19 per cent) Leghorn chickens (Gallus gallus domesticus) and from five Japanese bantams but none was isolated from the oropharynx or cloaca of other poultry comprising 10 Japanese game, 75 common quails (Coturnix coturnix japonica), 17 turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) and 10 guinea fowls (Numida galeata). In apparently healthy chickens, ureaplasmas were found at various sites, including the conjunctiva, nasal cavity, oropharynx, upper and lower tracheas, but not from the air sac, lungs, yolk, oviduct, urine or cloaca. All the isolates were antigenically similar but had no serological relation to those isolated from man, monkey, cattle, goat, sheep, dog and cat. In chickens experimentally infected with an avian ureaplasma, the organisms infected the oropharynx and nasal cavity but none of the birds inoculated demonstrated any clinical signs or macroscopic lesions.
Higher resistance of germfree mice to dianhydrodulcitol, a lymphotropic cytostatic agent.	The same dose of dianhydrodulcitol (DAD) produced a lower mortality rate among germfree mice than among SPF or conventional C3H mice. On the other hand, it caused graver lymphoid atrophy in germfree mice. Their higher resistance, as evidenced by the mortality rate, can be explained on the basis of a histological study of the ileum. It showed milder alterations of the intestinal wall in germfree than in SPF mice. The lymphotropic cytostatic agent had a less direct toxic effect in germfree mice, due to the lacking damaging effect of endotoxin from the normal intestinal flora.
A rapid method for preparing avian tracheal rings for organ culture.	A simple, rapid method for preparing rings from chicken tracheas is described. Using a polyacrylamide disc gel slicer, up to 100 uniform tracheal rings were obtained from two tracheas with a single cut and without injury to the ciliated tracheal epithelium. The responses of rings cut with a disc gel slicer and those cut conventionally with a scalpel blade were compared by virus titration, virus neutralization, and viability of uninfected 18-day-old-chick embryo rings over a nine-day incubation period. Rings cut with a disc gel slicer did not differ significantly from those cut conventionally with respect to virus titer, neutralization indices, or viability. A disc gel slicer expedites the preparation of functional rings and offers an alternative to the present method of cutting tracheal rings with a scalpel blade.
The human factor--the weakest link?	The German Animal-Laboratory-Information-System (ALIS) was used to assist the laboratory animal care program. The transmission of disease from man is a hazard to the health of laboratory animals. Mycoplasmas, Escherichia coli, staphylococci and Listeria were considered as hazards to laboratory animals. Special consideration was given to Escherichia coli strains of O groups 7 and 146 and to different lysotypes of Staphylococcus aureus. Important areas where human mistakes can be prevented are discussed. These include distance of animal quarters from processing areas, the diameter of sanitary sewers, air conditioning, noise, drinking water, cage changing procedures, wetting of animals, quarantine areas and separation of species. Training of laboratory animal technicians in Germany consists of both in-service and formal types. The formal training lasts 2 years. People selected for formal training should be tested to assure they are not allergic to laboratory animal dander.
Criteria for selecting the animal to meet the research need.	Prior to designing any study which utilizes animals, a number of criteria should be considered. One should decide whether alternatives to intact animal usage (tissue culture systems or mathematical models) will provide acceptable results. Perhaps there is a naturally-occurring animal model which resembles the condition to be studied. Careful consideration should then be made to select the correct animal species, the genotypic, microbial status and numbers of such animals needed. Once the study has been completed, these animal-related factors should be considered when interpreting the data.
Effect of Bordetella pertussis vaccine on the sensitivity to a lymphotropic cytostatic agent in germfree mice.	A single injection of 15 mg/kg dianhydrodulcitol caused death at a higher proportion of germfree, specific pathogen free, and conventional mice with lymphocytosis and spleen hypertrophy induced by Bordetella pertussis vaccine pretreatment, than of unvaccinated controls.
Experimental transmission of intestinal coccidiosis to piglets: clinical, parasitological and pathological findings.	Twenty-eight piglets coming from a "specific pathogen free" herd were inoculated at three days of age with 50 000 or 100 000 sporulated oocysts of Isospora suis. Fecal samples were examined for oocyst shedding daily and several clinical parameters were recorded. Ten piglets were used as normal controls. Groups of piglets were euthanized from three days to 12 days postinoculation and routine necropsies were performed. Bacteriological, virological, parasitological and histopathological examinations were made on the intestinal tracts. The incubation period was four to five days. Clinical signs and microscopic intestinal lesions observed in the experimentally infected animals were similar to those reported in spontaneous cases of porcine neonatal coccidiosis. Lesions of villous atrophy in the small intestine seemed to result from the destruction of villous epithelial cells mainly during the peak of asexual reproduction which occurred around four to five days postinoculation. Intracellular coccidial organisms were difficult to find during the late atrophic and villous regrowth stages of the intestinal lesions. The prepatent period varied from four to seven days and the most common was five days. Eighty percent of the piglets kept alive more than four days postinoculation have shed oocysts. Piglets dosed with old sporulated oocysts (ten months old) shed many more oocysts than those infected with a fresh inoculum (less than two months old). The patent period was not determined precisely with the design of the experiment but some of the infected piglets shed oocysts for at least five days.
Effect of trapidil on experimental hyperlipemia and atherosclerosis induced by cholesterol diet in SPF Japanese white rabbits]	The effect of trapidil on experimental hyperlipemia and atherosclerosis induced by 1% cholesterol diet in SPF male rabbits (JW/KBL) was investigated by the determination of the lipid contents of the plasma and thoracic aorta and examination of morphological changes in the aorta. Trapidil inhibited the increase of total lipid (TL), total cholesterol (TC), free cholesterol (FC) and phospholipid (PL) by the cholesterol diet in all groups. The level of cholesterol (HDL-C) and phospholipid (HDL-PL) in high density lipoprotein (HDL) remained unchanged after the cholesterol diet and trapidil administration. The atherogenic index (TC-HDL-C/HDL-C, PL-HDL-PL/HDL-PL) was improved by the inhibition of TC and PL by the administration of trapidil. A morphological study of the aorta showed that trapidil inhibited lipid deposition. A microscopic observation of the intima by Sudan III stain showed that inhibition of lipid deposition corresponded with the quantity of trapidil administration. An observation of aorta using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed that trapidil inhibited the presence of form cells due to HCD. This inhibition corresponded with the quantity of trapidil administration; and no form cells were seen in the 50 mg/kg-administered group. An observation of intima using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed that trapidil inhibited the irregularly elevated regions by HCD. The structure of intima in the 50 mg/kg-administered group was similar to that of the control groups. The observation of the head angiogram showed that trapidil improved the stenosis in the lingual and temporal arteries which was caused by HCD.
In vitro studies of hemorrhagic enteritis virus with immunofluorescent antibody technique.	Dissociated spleen lymphocytes from hemorrhagic enteritis virus (HEV)-free chickens, pheasants, and turkeys were infected with HEV in suspension cultures. Viral antigens were detected in cells of all three donor species by immunofluorescence. The age of chicken from which cells were obtained and the temperature of incubation influenced the development of viral antigens in cultured cells, which could be observed as early as 24 hr postinfection. This is the first time that HEV has been shown to infect cells in vitro.
Subcortical limbic 3H-N-propylnorapomorphine binding sites are markedly modulated by cholecystokinin-8 in vitro.	By means of the dopamine (DA) agonist radio ligand 3H-N-propylnorapomorphine (3H-NPA) the effects of cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) have been evaluated in vitro on the binding characteristics of the DA agonist sites in membrane preparations from the subcortical limbic forebrain containing mainly nucleus accumbens and tuberculum olfactorium. It was shown that CCK-8 (10(-8) M) can produce a 40% increase in the KD value of the 3H-NPA binding sites and a significant 10% increase in the Bmax values of these sites. It is therefore suggested that there exist marked receptor-receptor interactions between the CCK-8 binding sites and DA agonist binding sites in the limbic forebrain. On the basis of these findings and in view of the fact that CCK peptides are comodulators in certain types of mesolimbic DNA neurons but cannot modulate DA release in these DNA synapses, the hypothesis is introduced that the presence of DA comodulators such as CCK-8 in the DA synapses makes possible a heterostatic regulation of the synapse. Thus, by means of receptor-receptor interactions, peptide comodulators may change the set point of the main transmission line without inducing homeostatic feedback responses on synthesis and release of the main transmitter, opening up a new way to modulate chemical transmission in general.
Barrier animal facility operations for a large-scale chronic study (ED01 study).	The physical facilities of the specific pathogen free/defined flora barrier animal rooms and their support operations are described as used in the conduct of a large-scale, long-term, low-dose carcinogenicity study. Specifically described are the floor plan of the facility, the mechanical operations, air flow, temperature and humidity controls, personnel screening and requirements, cleaning operations, and traffic flow patterns of personnel, equipment, and animals.
Food restriction as a modulator of age-related changes in serum lipids.	Fischer 344 male rats were either fed ad libitum or 60% of the ad libitum intake. The restriction of food intake markedly increased the median length of life. Postabsorptive serum cholesterol and phospholipid concentrations increase in the ad libitum-fed rats with increasing age. Life-prolonging food restriction does not influence the serum levels of these lipids in young rats but delays the age-related increase in concentrations. Postabsorptive serum free fatty acid (FFA) concentrations decrease with advancing age in ad libitum-fed rats. Life-prolonging food restriction, while not affecting the serum FFA levels in young rats, delays and possibly partially prevents the age-related decrease in concentration. Food restriction lowers postabsorptive serum triglyceride levels at all ages studied. The data on serum cholesterol, phospholipids, and FFA provide further evidence that food restriction delays age-related changes in the physiological systems of rats. This delay of physiological decline may well retard the occurrence of age-related disease processes, thus prolonging life.
Incorporation of nitrogen-15 from dietary [15N] diammonium citrate into amino acids of liver and muscle proteins in germfree and specific-pathogen-free neonatal pigs.	Incorporation of 15N from dietary [15N]diammonium citrate ([15N]DAC) into amino acids isolated from hydrolyzed tissue proteins was investigated in the presence or absence of intestinal flora in neonatal pigs. The 15N was incorporated into all of the essential and nonessential amino acids from liver and muscles in one of two germfree pigs and two specific-pathogen-free pigs which were killed on the 5th day after the administration of [15N]DAC. But, a higher 15N concentration than natural abundance of 15N was not detected in histidine, lysine, and threonine from these tissues in another germfree pig killed the next day. Nitrogen transfer from DAC into all amino acids, including these three essential amino acids, may be possible in the specific-pathogen-free pig and even in the germfree pig.
Cell-mediated immunity in Marek's disease: cytotoxic responses in resistant and susceptible chickens and relation to disease.	Two experiments were conducted to study the cell-mediated cytotoxicity of peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) from chickens inoculated with Marek's disease virus (MDV) against a Marek's disease-derived lymphoblastoid cell line (MSB-1) and to associate the cytotoxicity with incidence of disease. In experiment I, moderately susceptible random-bred, specific-pathogen-free chickens were inoculated with MDV (group 1), vaccinated with a herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT) and inoculated with MDV (group 2), vaccinated with HVT and inoculated with chicken kidney cells (CKC; group 3), and inoculated with CKC only (group 4). Cytotoxic activity in the PBL was detected initially during the first week after MDV inoculation and periodically throughout the observation period (groups 1, 2, and 3). Throughout the observation period, the magnitude of cytotoxic activity was similar in PBL from groups 1 and 2 chickens. The PBL from both surviving and fatally infected chickens (groups 1 and 2) were similarly cytotoxic when sampled during the first 16 days after MDV inoculation. In experiment II, inbred genetically susceptible (line 7) and resistant (line 6) chickens were used. Cytotoxic activity of PBL of significantly greater magnitude was associated with a lower mortality or incidence of gross lesions (or both) in MDV-inoculated line 6 (group B) and HVT-vaccinated and MDV-inoculated line 7 (group C) chickens compared with activity of PBL from MDV-inoculated line 7 (group A) chickens. The cytotoxic activity of PBL from individual inbred chickens did not correlate with the outcome of the infection.
Biochemical characterization of an Fc receptor of rabbit lymphocytes.	Isolation of Fc-binding molecules was performed by complexing IgG antibodies and the corresponding antigens in lysates of radiolabeled rabbit lymphoid cells. A single-chain molecule of 110 000 apparent mol. wt. (unreduced) or 120 000 (reduced) was observed in sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis when the antibodies were in the IgG form but not as F(ab')2. This molecule was very susceptible to proteolysis, but the fragments thus produced remained associated by disulfide bridges, and the binding properties of the molecule were conserved. The molecule and its proteolytic fragments (mol. wts. 75 000, 45 000 and 20 000) were very similar to those obtained for the mouse Fc receptor under similar conditions, and therefore the molecule was designated as rabbit Fc receptor. Among several precipitating systems used, some Ig-anti-Ig complexes appeared to be the most efficient in coprecipitating the rabbit Fc receptor. Remarkably high titers of Fc receptor were found on lymphocyte membrane of infected rabbits, in agreement with a possible role of this molecule in immune regulation.
Dietary soybean protein decreases plasma taurine in cats.	Commercial dry and canned diets fed to cats cause approximately two- and fourfold increase in the taurine requirement, respectively, as compared with that observed for purified diets. In two experiments, the effect of source and level of protein and fiber in the diet on the concentration of taurine in plasma and whole blood of cats was studied. All diets contained 1 g taurine/kg dry matter. When a casein-based diet containing either 25% or 50% protein was given to cats for 6 wk, no difference in plasma taurine concentration was observed; however, substituting soybean protein for casein resulted in a significant (P < 0.01) decrease in plasma taurine concentration of cats in the 50% soybean protein group, but not in the 25% soybean protein group. In Experiment 2, the food intake of cats was limited [26 g dry matter/(kg body weight.d)], and the protein was 30 or 60% of the diet. Cats fed 60% soybean protein or casein diets had significantly lower plasma taurine concentrations than cats fed a 30% casein diet, with the 60% soybean protein diet causing the greater decrease. There was no effect of either 2 or 4% soybean fiber on plasma taurine concentration as compared with the same diet without the added fiber. The taurine concentration in plasma was higher (P < 0.05) in male cats than in female cats. Protein source, amount in the diet and gender did not affect the whole blood taurine concentration. Cats given diets containing 60% casein or soybean protein diets excreted a greater amount of fecal total bile acid and total taurine than cats given a 30% casein diet.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Endothelial MHC class II antigen expression and endarteritis associated with Marek's disease virus infection in chickens.	Experimental Marek's disease virus (MDV) infection in chickens was used to study the early pathogenesis of virus-induced atherosclerosis. Previous investigations using this model have reported the occurrence of atherosclerotic lesions after approximately 7 months postinfection. In this study, a total of 75 susceptible Cornell P-line chickens were inoculated intraperitoneally with the CU-2 strain of MDV at 3 days of age and subsequently perfused for histologic examination. At 2, 4, 8, 13, and 20 weeks postinoculation, the ascending aorta and the brachiocephalic and coronary arteries were evaluated for early changes. Expression of class II major histocompatibility complex (Ia) antigen by the vascular endothelium was demonstrated by indirect immunodetection as early as 2 weeks after virus inoculation. This change was followed by significant thickening of the intimal layer associated with mononuclear cell infiltration. All the arteries examined from the MDV-infected chickens were affected. Preliminary immunohistochemical staining showed the presence of CD3+ CD4+, and CD8+ cells among the infiltrating cells. The results suggest that an immunopathologic mechanism may be involved in the early pathogenesis of MDV-induced atherosclerosis in chickens.
Spontaneous renal tubular carcinoma in Fischer-344 rat littermates.	Two of 632 Fischer-344 rats in a food restriction study had spontaneous, bilateral, multicentric renal tubular cell carcinomas. Although there were 104 litters represented in this study, both rats that developed this rare neoplasm were from the same litter. The littermates, one male and one female, were in the food-restricted treatment groups (60% of ad libitum intake) and were 550 and 447 days old, respectively, at death. The probability that the two rare bilateral renal neoplasms occurred by a chance event in littermates is approximately 0.8%. The apparent familial predisposition for development of specific types of neoplasms emphasizes the importance of randomization of individuals into treatment groups and consideration of lineage for rare tumors.
Virus-neutralization domains on the oligomeric (230 kDa) forms of antigen B of herpesvirus of turkeys and Marek's disease virus differ in cross-serotypic activity.	Herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT) is frequently used to protect chickens against Marek's disease (MD). The HVT and MDV native antigen B complex shares common epitopes. To determine whether these oligomers present virus-neutralizing domains, monospecific antibodies to the HVT and MDV native 230 kDa oligomers were produced. The monospecific antibody immunopurified from an anti-HVT avian serum neutralized the in vitro infectivity of the oncogenic isolate MDV-B and the vaccine strains CVI988, SB1 and HVT and immunoblotted the 230 kDa oligomers of HVT and CVI988. As a result of the immunofluorescence analysis on infected cells, the monospecific antibody revealed foci of diffuse cytoplasmic immunofluorescence. A second monospecific antibody to the heat-stable 130 kDa monomer of HVT had limited neutralizing activity against HVT and CVI988 only, immunoblotted only the native HVT oligomer, and was not active in immunofluorescence. The monospecific antibody to the MDV-B 230 kDa oligomer neutralized and immunoblotted only the two MDV-1 strains but stained cells infected with MDVs of the three serotypes in immunofluorescence. It is concluded that the cross-protective neutralizing epitopes of HVT are located on heat-labile oligomeric forms of antigen B.
Growth and migration of Borrelia burgdorferi in Ixodes ticks during blood feeding.	We have studied the growth of Borrelia burgdorferi in nymphal ticks (Ixodes scapularis) feeding on mice using confocal fluorescence microscopy to follow the distribution of spirochetes. In starved nymphs, the bacteria were only detected in the midgut and each nymph had a mean of 496 spirochetes. Upon attachment of nymphs to the host, the bacteria grew with a doubling time close to 4 hr and reached a mean of 7,848 spirochetes per nymph 15 hr after attachment. During this initial period (36 hr) of rapid growth, the bacteria appeared to be restricted to the gut, but after 48 hr, the spirochetes had disseminated to the salivary glands in the majority of nymphs examined. Thus, a critical event that allows the spirochetes to disseminate and infect the salivary glands takes place 36-48 hr after attachment. A maximum number of 166,575 spirochetes per nymph was noted 72 hr after attachment. Soon after completion of feeding and detachment from the host (96 hr), the mean number of spirochetes decreased to 95,410 per nymph and the spirochetes appeared to be cleared from organs other than the midgut. Thus, dissemination of spirochetes within the vector appears to be a transient phenomenon. These results provide strong evidence in favor of a salivary route of disease transmission while also demonstrating the utility of confocal microscopy to study vector-pathogen interactions in general.
Activation of astrocytes in the spinal cord of mice chronically infected with a neurotropic coronavirus.	Mice infected with the neurotropic JHM strain of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV-JHM) develop a demyelinating encephalomyelitis several weeks after infection. Astrogliosis and infiltration of inflammatory cells are prominent findings in the brains and spinal cords of infected mice. In this report, astrocytes in infected spinal cords were analyzed for expression of three pleiotropic cytokines, TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6; Type 2 nitric oxide synthase (iNOS); and MHC class I and II antigen. The data show that all three cytokines and iNOS are expressed by astrocytes in chronically infected spinal cords. These activated astrocytes are localized to areas of virus infection and demyelination, although most of the astrocytes expressing these proteins are not MHV-infected. MHC class I and II antigen can be detected in these spinal cords as well, but not in cells with the typical morphology of astrocytes. TNF-alpha, IL-6, and iNOS are also evident in the brains of mice with MHV-induced acute encephalitis, but in marked contrast to the results obtained with the chronically infected mice, most of the cells expressing these cytokines or iNOS had the morphology of macrophages or other mononuclear cells and very few appeared to be astrocytes. Additionally, astrocytes and, most likely, oligodendrocytes are infected in the spinal cords of mice with chronic demyelination. These results are consistent with a role for both viral infection of glial cells and high localized levels of proinflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide in the demyelinating process in mice infected with MHV-JHM. They also show that analogously to the human demyelinating disease, multiple sclerosis, astrocytes are a major cellular source for these cytokines in mice with chronic, but not acute disease.
Morphological study on the gastric mucosa in diabetes mellitus rats induced by streptozotocin]	To clarify the pathogenesis of vulnerability to acute gastric mucosal lesion (AGML) in diabetes mellitus (DM), we investigated histopathologically the gastric mucosa of the fundic gland in streptozotocin-induced DM rats. The length of the mucosa and the thickness of the surface epithelial cell (SEC) layer were measured, and the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive cells was counted. As results, compared with control rats, the ratio of the length of SEC layer to that of mucosa, and the number of PCNA positive cells were significantly decreased in DM rats, whereas the length of the mucosa tended to extend in DM rats. Consequently, it is considered that attenuation of mucosal barrier in the SEC layer can be closely associated with susceptibility to occurrence of AGML in DM.
The CD44 expressed on the earliest intrathymic precursor population functions as a thymus homing molecule but does not bind to hyaluronate.	A minute population of cells representing the earliest lymphoid-restricted precursor cells in the adult mouse thymus has been isolated recently in our laboratory. This population expresses low levels of CD4, very high levels of CD44 and has a surface antigenic phenotype similar to that of bone marrow hemopoietic stem cells. To examine the role of CD44 on these cells, and to ascertain its ligand, we analysed the ability of the early thymic precursor cells to bind hyaluronate (HA) which functions as a cell adhesion molecule and a ligand for CD44. We also examined if anti-CD44 antibodies (clones IM7.8.1 and KM201) can block the thymic precursor activity. The majority of the thymic precursor cells did not show specific HA binding, indicating that HA is not the ligand for the CD44 molecules expressed on these precursor cells. HA and CD44 interactions are therefore unlikely to play a role in development of cells at this early intrathymic precursor stage. When the purified intrathymic precursor cells were incubated with anti-CD44 antibodies before intravenous transfer into recipients, very few progeny cells were detected in the thymus, although progeny were found in the spleen and lymph nodes. Coating the cells with other isotype-matched antibodies did not have this effect. However, when the same anti-CD44-coated cells were transferred directly into the recipient thymus, normal levels of progeny cells were detected in this organ. This suggests that the CD44 on the intrathymic precursor cells is a homing molecule, able to direct cells to the thymus but utilizing some ligand other than HA.
Role of leukocyte adhesion molecules in lung and dermal vascular injury after thermal trauma of skin.	Acute second degree thermal injury of rat skin involving 25 to 30% total body surface of anesthetized rats results at 4 hours in evidence of vascular injury both locally (in skin) and remotely (involving lung). The neutrophil dependency for both types of injury has now been established. Monoclonal antibodies to various adhesion molecules have been used to define the requirements for these molecules in the development of vascular injury. In dermal vascular injury, a requirement for Mac-1 (CD11b/CD18) but not for leukocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1, CD11a/CD18) has been established. In this model requirements have also been demonstrated for intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and E- and L-selectin but not for very late arising antigen-4 (VLA-4) or P-selectin. With respect to lung vascular injury, dual requirements for both leukocyte function-associated antigen-1 and Mac-1 were found as well as for ICAM-1 and E- and L-selectin but not for VLA-4 and P-selectin. In the lung, there was a close correlation between neutrophil content of the tissue (as assessed by myeloperoxidase) and the effects of protective interventions (directed against blocking of adhesion molecules). These data emphasize the roles of beta 2 integrins, selectins (L and E), and ICAM-1 in events that lead to neutrophil-mediated vascular injury of dermis and lung after thermal trauma to skin.
Mouse hepatitis virus and herpes simplex virus move along different CNS pathways.	The spread of mouse hepatitis virus, strain JHM and herpes simplex virus type 1 in the central nervous system after inoculation into the nares and main olfactory bulb has been examined. The results show that each virus infects a subset of the possible connections of the olfactory bulb and that the subset infected by each virus is different. Thus, both viruses will be useful for studying the neuroanatomic connections of the olfactory bulb, and possibly for functional analyses as well.
Chlamydia trachomatis pneumonia in the severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mouse.	We have developed a model of pneumonia caused by the mouse pneumonitis agent (MoPn, murine Chlamydia trachomatis) in the C.B-17 severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mouse. In contrast to our prior models in the nude athymic (nu/nu) and heterozygous (nu/+) mouse, SCID mice lack B-cell function and gamma delta T-cell function. SCID mice were more susceptible to MoPn than nu/nu or nu/+ mice both by criteria of mortality and quantitative lung culture. SCID mice could be reconstituted with thymocytes to be more resistant to MoPn (in the absence of significant antibody production), but the protection was modest and less than that in T-cell reconstituted nu/nu mice in our previous studies. A nu/+ MoPn-specific T-cell clone with a Th1-like cytokine profile also provided modest but significant protection without significant antibody production. The SCID mouse is a useful model to study T-cell-mediated immunity to MoPn in a B cell and gamma delta T-cell-deficient environment.
Naloxone exacerbates intestinal and systemic anaphylaxis in the rat.	Following sensitization to ovalbumin (OA), male Wistar rats were pretreated with naloxone (20 mg/kg i.p.) and subjected to antigen challenge (3 mg OA i.p.). Naloxone exacerbated both systemic and intestinal anaphylaxis when injected 10 and 90 min before the antigen challenge. This was evidenced by a more pronounced drop in rectal temperature, higher hematocrit values, and by an enhanced elevation of basal short-circuit current (an indication of the secretory tone of the small intestine studied in Ussing chambers). Pretreatment with an equipotent does of methylnaloxone (200 mg/kg i.p.), a peripherally acting opiate antagonist, exacerbated the indices of intestinal anaphylaxis but had no apparent effect on indices of systemic anaphylaxis. Thus, our data strongly suggest that in the rat, components of the systemic hypersensitivity reaction are mediated through central opioid receptors, whereas the changes in gut function characterizing intestinal anaphylaxis are mediated through peripheral opioid receptors.
Defective natural killer cell cytotoxic activity in feline immunodeficiency virus-infected cats.	Flow cytometry has been employed to study NK cell cytotoxic activity in cats infected with feline immunodeficiency virus. The results show that animals infected for 12 months or more have decreased levels of NK cell cytotoxic activity in their blood. The impairment could not be overcome by in vitro treatment of effector cells with interleukin 2. Additional results suggest that the NK cells of infected cats are defective, in that they are still able to bind to target cells but have a reduced ability to kill them.
Anti-metastatic therapy by urinary trypsin inhibitor in combination with an anti-cancer agent.	We have demonstrated that urinary trypsin inhibitor (UTI) purified from human urine is able to inhibit lung metastasis of mouse Lewis lung carcinoma (3LL) cells in experimental and spontaneous metastasis models. In this study, we have investigated whether UTI in combination with an anti-cancer drug, etoposide, can prevent tumour metastasis and show an enhanced therapeutic effect. Subcutaneous (s.c.) implantation of 3LL cells (1 x 10(6) cells) in the abdominal wall of C57BL/6 female mice resulted in macroscopic lung metastasis within 21 days. Microscopic lung metastasis was established by day 14 after tumour cell inoculation, and surgical treatment alone after this time resulted in no inhibition of lung metastasis. The number of lung tumour colonies in the group of mice which received surgery at day 21 was greater than in mice which had tumours left in situ (P = 0.0017). Surgical treatment on day 7, followed by UTI administration (s.c.) for 7 days, led to a decrease in lung metastasis compared with untreated animals. A significant inhibition of the formation of pulmonary metastasis was obtained with daily s.c. injections of UTI for 7 days immediately after tumour cell inoculation. UTI administration did not affect the primary tumour size at the time of operation. In addition, etoposide treatment alone led to a smaller primary tumours and yielded reduction of the formation of lung metastasis in the group of mice which received surgery at day 14 (P = 0.0026). Even in mice which received surgical treatment on day 14, followed by the combination of UTI (500 micrograms per mouse, days 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20) with etoposide (40 mg kg-1, days 14, 18 and 22), there was significant reduction of the formation of lung metastasis (P = 0.0001). Thus, the combination of an anti-metastatic agent with an anti-cancer drug, etoposide, might provide a therapeutically promising basis for anti-metastatic therapy.
Changes in endogenous cytokines, adhesion molecules and platelets during cytokine-induced tumour necrosis.	The aim of this study was to investigate mechanisms of anti-tumour activity and necrosis induced by combinations of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma). In a breast cancer xenograft model, locally injected recombinant human TNF-alpha arrested growth of established tumours in the absence of overt necrosis. Macroscopic necrosis occurred when rat IFN-gamma, which had no anti-tumour activity as a single agent, was given systemically. Treatment with TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma caused focal engorgement of tumour capillaries with erythrocytes, intravascular recruitment of polymorphonuclear cells and platelet adherence to the tumour vascular endothelium 4 h after the combined treatment. This was followed by destruction of tumour vascular endothelium and both necrosis and apoptosis of tumour cells. Concomitant with these changes, semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed the increase of stromal (murine) mRNA levels for TNF-alpha, TNF receptor 55 kDa, TNF receptor 75 kDa, intracellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, P-selectin and interleukin 6 (IL-6). Thus, the effect of the combined TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma therapy involved the selective destruction of the tumour vasculature, death of tumour cells and increased expression of a series of stromal cytokines, cytokine receptors and adhesion molecules, which could be implicated in the observed events.
Gamma delta T cell-induced nitric oxide production enhances resistance to mucosal candidiasis.	Despite the prevalence of gamma delta T cells in mucosae that are typically colonized by Candida albicans, little is known of the possible role of these cells in resistance to candidiasis. A sharp increase in the number of gamma delta T cells and macrophages following intraperitoneal inoculation of mice with C. albicans led us to examine the role of these cells in the immune response to C. albicans. We show that the gamma delta T cells enhance macrophage nitric oxide (NO) production and anti-candida activity, in vitro. We also propose that the gamma delta T cells regulate macrophage function during candidiasis in vivo as well, because depletion of these cells abrogated inducible NO synthase expression in mucosae and enhanced murine susceptibility to candidiasis.
Cutaneous immunopathology of cyclosporin-A-induced autoimmunity in the rat.	Syngeneic bone marrow transplantation following lethal X-irradiation and subsequent administration of cyclosporin A (CsA) results after cessation of CsA treatment in an autoimmune disease which is thymus dependent and resembles graft-versus-host disease. The chronic dermal changes of this experimental autoimmune model have similarities with human scleroderma in terms of skin histopathology. In this study we evaluated the possible role of different effector leukocytes in the rat model of CsA-induced autoimmunity (CsA-AI) by examining the skin by immunohistology. In the acute phase both CD4+ and CD8+ TCR alpha beta + T-cells together with activated ED1+ macrophages and class II MHC-upregulated keratinocytes were seen in the epidermis; no selective use of TCR V beta was observed. Few TCR alpha beta + T-cells were seen in the dermis where CD4+ ED2+ macrophages were abundant. With the change from acute to chronic, scleroderma-like lesions the CD4+ T-cells disappeared from the epidermis and the TCR alpha beta + cells were now almost exclusively CD8+; both class II MHC-upregulated keratinocytes and macrophages persisted. Changes in TCR gamma delta + T-cells were not observed in the acute or chronic phase. As a possible effector mechanism CD4+ T-cells in the acute-phase of CsA-AI may cause the observed activation of macrophages and keratinocytes. Furthermore, CD4+ T-cells may be necessary for the homing of the CD8+ T-cells in the epidermis. Especially the activated keratinocytes are suspected of being the target cells which may perpetuate the ongoing autoimmune response into the chronic phase as established by CD8+ T-cells only.
Treatment of arthritis in Lewis rats by a monoclonal antibody against alpha beta T cell receptor: differential sensitivity of Yersinia-induced arthritis versus adjuvant arthritis.	Lewis rats experimentally infected with Yersinia enterocolitica develop sterile arthritis similar to Yersinia-associated reactive arthritis in humans. To investigate the putative role of alpha beta T cells in the pathogenesis of Yersinia-induced arthritis (YIA) rats were treated with the monoclonal antibody (mAb) R73 mAb directed against the rat alpha beta T cell receptor. In spite of reduction of alpha beta T cells in peripheral blood and in liver lesions of Yersinia-infected rats this serotherapy had no suppressive effect on YIA. Moreover, R73 mAb treatment had no influence on the number of alpha beta T cells in the inflammed synovial tissue. In contrast, R73 mAb serotherapy in Mycobaterium tuberculosis-immunized rats blocked development of adjuvant arthritis (AA) and suppressed the presence of alpha beta T cells in the synovial tissue. These results suggest fundamental differences between the immunopatho-mechanism of YIA caused by bacterial infection and AA induced by bacterial immunization and known to be T cell mediated. These data might have consequences for putative serotherapy of arthritis in humans.
Glucocorticoids down-regulate dendritic cell function in vitro and in vivo.	Exogenous glucocorticoid hormones are widely used as therapeutical agents, whereas endogenous glucocorticoids may act as physiological immunosuppressants involved in the control of immune and inflammatory responses. The optimal activation of T lymphocytes requires two distinct signals: the major histocompatibility complex-restricted presentation of the antigen and an additional co-stimulatory signal provided by the antigen-presenting cells. There is ample evidence that, among the cells able to present the antigen, the dendritic cells (DC) have the unique property to activate antigen-specific, naive T cells in vitro and in vivo, and are therefore required for the induction of primary immune responses. In this work, we tested whether glucocorticoids affected the capacity of DC to sensitize naive T cells. Our data show that, in vitro, the steroid hormone analog dexamethasone (Dex) affects the viability of DC, selectively down-regulates the expression of co-stimulatory molecules on viable DC, and strongly reduces their immunostimulatory properties. In vivo, a single injection of Dex results in impaired antigen presenting function, a finding which correlates with reduced numbers of splenic DC. These results show that glucocorticoids regulate DC maturation and immune function in vitro and in vivo and suggest that this mechanism may play a role in preventing overstimulation of the immune system.
Protective role of gamma/delta T cells and alpha/beta T cells in tuberculosis.	Tuberculosis is a chronic infectious disease which causes major health problems globally. Although acquired resistance crucially depends on alpha/beta lymphocytes, circumstantial evidence suggests that, in addition, gamma/delta T lymphocytes contribute to protection against tuberculosis. We have studied Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in TcR-delta-/- or TcR-beta-/- gene deletion mutants which completely lack gamma/delta T cells or alpha/beta T cells, respectively. Low inocula of M. tuberculosis led to death of TcR-beta-/- mice and transient disease exacerbation in TcR-delta-/- mutants. Infection with higher inocula caused rapid death of TcR-delta-/- mice. The development of and bacterial containment in granulomatous lesions was markedly impaired in TcR-beta-/-, and less severely affected in TcR-delta-/- mutants. Mycobacteria-induced IFN-gamma production by spleen cells in vitro was almost abolished in TcR-beta-/- and virtually unaffected in TcR-delta-/- mice. Our data confirm the crucial role of alpha/beta T cells in protection against established tuberculosis and formally prove a protective role of gamma/delta T cells in early tuberculosis.
Enhancement of cytotoxic activity of lymphocytes in mice by oral administration of peptidoglycan (PG) derived from Bifidobacterium thermophilum.	A preparation of peptidoglycan (PG) of Bifidobacterium thermophilum (B. thermophilum) of swine was orally administered to SPF-C57BL/6CrSlc mice in order to confirm the enhancement of the cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells (NK), intraperitoneal cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and lymphocytes stimulated by concanavalin A (Con A-stimulated lymphocytes). The NK cells from the spleen and the mesenteric lymph node (MLN) of mice that were continuously fed with PG-mixed feed for three weeks showed a significantly higher rate of cytolysis than those from the control group. However, a single oral administration of PG had no significant effect on NK activity. The activity of peritoneally sensitized CTL of the mice that were continuously fed with PG-mixed feed was assayed. The PG-mixed feed administered group showed a higher CTL activity than that of the control group. The cytotoxic activity of Con A-stimulated lymphocytes in the PG-mixed feed administered group was higher than that of the control group. These results indicate that the cytotoxic activity of mice was enhanced by orally administered PG.
The growth hormone-releasing hormone-cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate signal pathway in somatotropes is practically intact during aging.	To elucidate the mechanisms of the impaired pituitary response to growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) in aged animals on a cellular basis, a reverse hemolytic plaque assay was performed on dispersed pituitary cells from young (8-month-old) and old (26-month-old) male F344 rats. The proportion of growth hormone (GH)-plaque forming somatotropes, i.e., actually functioning somatotropes, was reduced in old rats to 50-60% of that in young rats under both unstimulated and GHRH-stimulated conditions. The response of dispersed cells to GHRH, however, seemed to remain unchanged with age when expressed as a percent increase of plaque-forming cells from the basal value. The mean diameter of plaques, which reflects the average amount of GH secreted from a single cell, was not smaller in old rats under either the unstimulated or stimulated conditions. There was also no difference between the two age groups in the frequency distribution of the plaque size of functioning somatotropes. The stimulation by forskolin, a compound that directly activates membrane-bound adenylate cyclase and consequently provokes the cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) pathway for GH secretion in somatotropes, produced almost the same results as those by GHRH stimulation. It was concluded, therefore, that the impaired response of the pituitary gland to GHRH could be due mostly to a reduction in the density of functioning somatotropes rather than to impairments in steps of the GHRH-cAMP signal pathway in somatotropes .
Avian infectious bronchitis: specific lachrymal IgA level and resistance against challenge.	Since circulating antibody titres against infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) often correlate poorly with protection against re-infection, the lachrymal specific IgA level of IBV vaccinated chickens was evaluated as an indicator of resistance against challenge. For this purpose, the post-vaccination (pv) IBV specific lachrymal IgA response was monitored in 30 chickens at 3-day intervals until a rise of this specific isotype was detected. On day 19 pv, all birds (vaccinated group and non-vaccinated controls) were challenged with the moderately attenuated H-52 IBV strain via the ocular route. Protection was assessed by viral reisolation attempts in SPF embryonated chicken eggs (ECE) from tracheal swabs 4 days after challenge. Virus was detected in all control birds by the second passage in ECE. IBV was reisolated from 27% (eight birds) of all H-120-primed birds after five passages in ECE. These results demonstrate that lachrymal-fluid-specific IgA levels in chickens are associated with resistance against IBV reinfection and are therefore a suitable source of antibodies that could be used for flock profiling.
Comparison of the Salmonella-Tek ELISA to culture methods for detection of Salmonella enteritidis in litter and cloacal swabs of poultry.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), using the Salmonella-Tek ELISA test system, was compared with bacteriological isolation for detection of Salmonella enteritidis phage type 4 in litter and cloacal swabs of poultry. Before ELISA, samples were enriched in tetrathionate broth for 18-24 h or in tetrathionate broth (18-24 h), followed by M-broth/novobiocine (4-6 h). The bacteriological isolation procedure included incubation in buffered peptone water and inoculation on modified semisolid Rappaport-Vassiliadis. For detection of S. enteritidis in litter samples, ELISA was more sensitive than bacteriological examination. For cloacal swabs, both techniques were equally sensitive. The two enrichment procedures gave no significant differences in ELISA results. It was concluded that the Salmonella-Tek ELISA test might be a promising test for detection of Salmonella infected poultry flocks, providing that further studies are performed to determine the cut-off value for litter and cloacal swabs of commercial flocks.
Effects of modified-live infectious bronchitis virus vaccines on the head-associated lymphoid tissue (HALT).	Specific-pathogen-free (SPF) leghorn chicks were inoculated with different modified-live infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) vaccines to determine if the vaccines interfered with immune competence of the head region. A total of 16 vaccines were evaluated comprising nine Massachusetts, three Arkansas, two Holland, one Florida, and one combination vaccine (containing both Connecticut and Massachusetts). Chicks were vaccinated when they were 4 weeks, 2 weeks, or 1 day of age. When all chickens were 4 weeks 3 days of age, their glands of Harder (GH) were assayed for the ability to respond to antigenic stimulation. Tissues from chicks given GH-depressing and non-GH-depressing vaccines were also collected and scored for histological changes in the head-associated lymphoid tissue (HALT) sites and the trachea. All 16 vaccines depressed the GH response to antigenic stimulation when given to 4-week-old chicks. Six of these vaccines (two Massachusetts, two Arkansas, and two Holland) also depressed the GH response when given to 2-week-old chicks, and one, an Arkansas vaccine, depressed the GH response when given to 1-day-old chicks. The main histological changes associated with the vaccines were increases in lymphocyte populations in the nasal mucosa, eyelid, and, for some, the lacrimal gland and the GH. In addition, lymphoid follicles were increased in the eyelid, to a lesser degree in the GH, and occasionally in the trachea. No relationship was found between histologic changes and vaccine-induced suppression of the GH response.
Dietary subacute zinc deficiency and potassium metabolism.	In a controlled animal experiment the effects of dietary subacute Zn deficiency on growth, Zn concentration, and tissue 42-K distribution were studied. Growth retardation caused lower body weight because both skeletal and heart muscle showed a reduction in cell mass. Zn concentrations were reduced in most tissues, however, they remained unaltered in heart muscle. 42-K activity increased in skeletal muscle and pancreas. We hypothesize the latter reflects the organs rate of metabolism, inducing the exocrine pancreas to increase Zn absorption; in skeletal muscle it may induce also alterations in cell potentiation, causing restless behavior. As suggested by the calculated specific K activity (Bq/mol), the K uptake was highest in liver and bone, high in pancreas and skeletal muscle and low in heart muscle. The latter suggests K retention in heart muscle. Specific activity in plasma and jejunum remained unaltered: K status and absorption seem unaffected. Zn deficiency causes different 42-K activities in the various tissues, that respond by alterations in K metabolism without the induction of K deficiency.
Preparation and antigen specificity of an anti-(1-->3)-beta-D-glucan antibody.	Antibody for (1-->6)-branched (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan was prepared using rodents. An antitumor (1-->6)-beta-monoglucosyl branched (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan (GRN: grifolan) was conjugated with bovine serum albumin and used as an immunogen. The antibody titer in serum was determined by ELISA using biotin-conjugated GRN. Administration of the antigen raised the antibody titer only in the rabbit, with mouse and rat showing no significant antibody titer for the glucan. The antigen specificity of the anti-GRN antibody was determined by competitive ELISA. The rabbit anti-GRN antibody bound to structurally related antitumor (1-->6)-branched (1-->3)-beta-D-glucans such as lentinan, schizophyllan and SSG, whereas it did not react with linear (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan, curdlan or GRN-derivatives obtained by periodate-oxidation and Smith degradation. These facts strongly suggest that the hapten site of the antibody was the monoglucosyl branched moiety of (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan. These results indicate that this antibody would be a useful probe for the detection of (1-->6)-branched antitumor glucans administered to the host.
A multivariate analysis of repeated measures: linkage of the albinism gene (Tyr) to a QTL influencing ethanol-induced anesthesia in laboratory mice.	We propose the use of multivariate analysis of variance in order to address linkage relationships between a genetic marker and a phenotype that is specified by multiple variables. Moreover, enhanced power of a linkage model that simultaneously accounts for environmental factors is demonstrated in the present study. This strategy was used to establish linkage of a quantitative trait locus influencing ethanol-induced anesthesia to the albinism gene (Tyr) in mouse. This approach, which can be implemented immediately with most statistical packages, provides the extreme flexibility of multivariate analysis of variance for analyzing complex questions of linkage regarding either animal or human research paradigms.
Suppression of T-cell activation by pulmonary alveolar macrophages: dissociation of effects on TcR, IL-2R expression, and proliferation.	Suppression of local T-cell activation in the lower respiratory tract by resident pulmonary alveolar macrophages (PAMs) is believed to play an important role in the maintenance of local immunological homeostasis. However, the mechanism(s) by which pulmonary alveolar macrophages regulate T-cell responses are poorly characterized. The present study examines early events during the activation process in mitogen-stimulated T-cell cultures, in which proliferation was completely blocked by the presence of pulmonary alveolar macrophages. Despite inhibition of proliferation, the T-cells demonstrated normal Ca++ flux, normal modulation of surface expression of CD3 and T-cell receptor alpha/beta (TCR alpha/beta), upregulation of interleukin-2 receptors alpha and beta (IL-2R alpha and IL-2R beta), and secretion of high levels of interleukin-2 (IL-2). Thus, pulmonary alveolar macrophage regulation of T-cell activation appears to permit initial expression of effector function, but selectively inhibits further amplification of the overall T-cell response by limiting clonal expansion of the activated effector T-cell.
Effect of dietary fish oil on serum lipids and lipoproteins of rats fed diets differing in cholesterol and fat.	The investigation was attempted to clarify the effects of fish oil on the concentration of lipids in serum and lipoproteins in rats fed diets differing in cholesterol and fat. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained on low-fat/high-fat diets without and with 1.5% cholesterol (base diets) for 28 days. Half of each group was then switched to a fish oil diet for 20 days with 5.6% fish oil for exchange of coconut oil and beef tallow. Total cholesterol in rat serum was increased following feeding high amounts of dietary cholesterol. This increase was due to raised VLDL and LDL cholesterol. Rats fed the high-cholesterol/high-fat diet had lower HDL cholesterol concentration than groups fed the other base diets. Dietary fish oil lowered serum and lipoprotein cholesterol, even in the presence of dietary cholesterol. In rats fed the high-fat/cholesterol-free diet triglyceride levels in total serum and VLDL were higher than in rats fed the other base diets. The hypertriglyceridemia in rats was diminished fed dietary cholesterol. Serum triglyceride concentration was markedly lowered by fish oil, whereas, this effect reached significance only using cholesterol-free diets. This was mainly associated with a reduction in VLDL triglycerides. Fish oil lowered HDL triglycerides only in rats fed the low-fat diet without cholesterol. Lipid components in the base diets did not influence serum and LDL phospholipids. Rats fed the high-fat/cholesterol-free diet had a higher VLDL phospholipid level than the other base groups. Irrespective of the base diet, phospholipid levels in serum and lipoproteins were markedly reduced by dietary fish oil. In conclusion, this study suggests that other dietary lipids should be considered when examining the hypolipemic effect of fish oil.
Time course of effects of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) on the kidney and blood silicon concentration in mice.	To clarify the time course of toxicological effects of tetraethoxysaline [Si(OC2H5)4, TEOS] on the kidney and the relationship between blood silicon levels (Si-B) and the effects, 250 mg/kg or 500 mg/kg TEOS was intraperitoneally administered to ten 5-week-old male ICR mice (SPF grade) in each group, and morphological and functional changes of the kidney were assessed at 12 h, 24 h, 3 days and 2 weeks after administration of TEOS. Injury to tubular epithelial cells was observed in mice killed 12 and 24 h after administration, and its severity increased with increasing dosage. The mean values of blood urea nitrogen exhibited dose-related increase in mice sacrificed 24 h after the administration. The concentrations of Si-B increased in order of the administered doses of TEOS, and then decreased steadily. The results of Si-B were consistent with the concept that renal toxicity of TEOS is mediated by siliceous compounds. The kidney was recovering from injury 3 days after administration, and had developed tubulointerstitial nephritis, which could be regarded as repaired lesion of acute injury, by 2 weeks after administration.
Development of altered taste preferences in tumor-bearing rats.	Experimental tumors induce a decline in food intake that may derive from changes in taste or the development of taste aversions. The preferences of tumor-bearing (TB) and non-tumor-bearing (NTB) rats for five chemicals (three palatable and two aversive taste stimuli) were studied in an animal model of experimental cancer employing the methylcholanthrene (MCA) sarcoma. In protocol 1, five groups of Fischer 344 rats were given 23-h, two-bottle preference tests (taste solution vs. water) daily from day 3 after tumor implantation until spontaneous death occurred. Both NTB and TB rats avoided quinine hydrochloride and hydrochloric acid solutions throughout the experiment indicating that tumor growth produced no disruption in the animals' perception of these normally aversive tastes. In both groups, preference for sucrose (88% to 97%) and saccharin (75% to 93%) remained high until days 22 and 17 respectively, but tended to decline with advanced tumor growth. In both cases, a reduction in total calorie intake preceded the changes in sucrose or saccharin preference by several days. With or without a tumor, rats exhibited approximately 50% preference for NaCl at all times. In protocol 2, a four-bottle preference test (sucrose vs. saccharin vs. NaCl vs. water) was administered before tumor implantation and again 3 weeks later when a decline in food intake was evident. Both TB and NTB rats displayed a dominant preference for sucrose over saccharin, NaCl, and water at the pre- and posttests. However, a comparison of the difference scores (pre- minus postimplantation) of NTB and TB rats showed a small but significant suppression of TB animals' preference for sucrose. The altered preferences for sweet but not salt taste stimuli suggest that food-related taste cues may be more susceptible to the development of taste aversions during cancer. However the contribution of taste changes to the anorexia of cancer remains unclear and it is possible that the changes in taste preference may be secondary to the reduction in food intake.
Mycoplasma gallisepticum infection in drug-treated chickens: comparison of diagnosis methods including polymerase chain reaction.	Ten chickens were inoculated with Mycoplasma gallisepticum (MG) and treated with enrofloxacine. On eight different dates post-inoculation (PI), tracheal swab samples were collected for mycoplasma culture or detection by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and blood samples were analysed by slide-agglutination test (SA) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results showed that culture and PCR detected MG from 14/80 or 20/80 samples, respectively. The last culture-positive sample was collected on day 26 PI, whereas PCR still gave positive results on day 54 PI. This difference may be attributed to the high sensitivity of PCR and to its ability to detect non-viable or non-culturable pathogens. Sera were SA positive as early as 5 days PI and some of them remained positive up to day 47 PI. ELISA detected 53 suspicious or positive sera.
Evidence favoring the role of the gut as a cytokine-generating organ in rats subjected to hemorrhagic shock.	There is increasing evidence of an association between intestinal injury and the development of a septic state and distant organ failure. Since this phenomenon can occur in the absence of detectable systemic bacterial translocation (BT), we tested the hypothesis that shock-induced intestinal injury will result in the gut becoming a cytokine-generating organ by measuring interleukin 6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) levels in the portal blood, cardiac blood, and intestinal lymph of rats subjected to sham, 30, 60, or 90 min of hemorrhagic shock (30 mm Hg). These blood and lymph samples, as well as the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), spleens, and livers, were cultured for translocating bacteria. Although all the portal and cardiac blood samples were sterile, the portal blood levels of TNF and IL-6 were increased to a greater extent than simultaneously obtained cardiac blood samples in rats subjected to 60 or 90 min of shock (p < .05). The lymph IL-6 levels increased but were similar between the groups. BT was limited to the MLN and occurred in a dose-dependent fashion with 38, 63, and 100% of the animals having culture-positive MLNs after 30, 60, or 90 min of shock, respectively. In conclusion, after hemorrhagic shock, the gut appears to become a cytokine liberating organ even in the absence of detectable bacteria in the portal circulation.
Tissue gamma/delta T cells in experimental urinary tract infection relationship between other immuno-competent cells]	We studied the gamma/delta T cells, which are thought to be one of the local immune-defense system, in an experimental ascending urinary tract infection model in mouse. The experimental infection was induced in the BALB/c mouse by transurethral instillation of Escherichia coli. gamma/delta T cells were stained immunohistochemically with ABC method and the localization in the uninfected and infected murine urinary tract was determined. Then, to determine the CD4 or CD8 phenotype of gamma/delta T cells in the infected site, a two-color immunohistological study was done. In the uninfected state, gamma/delta T cells were observed in the bladder epithelium and submucosa, not in the kidney. It is thought that the difference of gamma/delta T cell distribution between kidney and bladder is affected by the bacteriological milieu, because the chance for foreign antigen exposure of bladder may be greater than that of the kidney. Six hours after inoculation of E. coli, the gamma/delta T cells infiltrated in to the bladder and kidney, following a gradual increase in number. Especially at 105 days after inoculation, severe accumulation of gamma/delta T cells in the renal scarring lesion was observed. Two-color immunohistological study revealed that the phenotypes of gamma/delta T cells in the renal scarring lesion were both CD4-CD8- double negative and CD4-CD8+ single positive. The CD4-CD8+ gamma/delta T cells were probably activated by the bacterial antigen.
Stress elicits trans-synaptic activation of adrenal neuropeptide Y gene expression.	Stress triggers responses important to maintain internal homeostasis, and yet when prolonged can cause medical consequences that are most likely mediated by changes in gene expression. In this study we examine the alterations in gene expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY), a potent vasoconstrictor, with stress. Stressors, such as immobilization and cold, were found to increase adrenal NPY gene expression in rats. Adrenal prepro-NPY mRNA levels were elevated by a relatively short period of stress. A single immobilization was sufficient for an increase in prepro-NPY mRNA, that remained elevated for as long as one day later. This rise in adrenal NPY mRNA was abolished by the transcriptional inhibitor actinomycin D. Repeated (2 and 7) daily immobilizations led to a further rise and sustained elevations of prepro-NPY mRNA levels. This increase persisted 2-3 days after the cessation of repeated stress. The stress-elicited increase in NPY gene expression is transsynaptic requiring splanchnic innervation and mediated by nicotinic receptors. Hypophysectomy did not prevent the stress elicited rise in adrenal prepro-NPY mRNA levels. These results suggest that long lasting changes in NPY gene expression might be an important component in the homeostatic mechanisms triggered by chronic stress.
An ellipsoid farrowing crate: its ergonomical design and effects on pig productivity.	An ellipsoid farrowing crate was designed and compared to the conventional rectangular crate with regard to its effect on sows' production traits. The main features of this crate are its oval horizontal frame and bowed vertical bars. Thirty-two sows farrowed in each system. Those in the ellipsoid crates raised 318 pigs and those in the rectangular crates raised 304. Stillbirth rate was lower in the ellipsoid crates than in the rectangular crates (P < .05). Among pigs born live, no significant difference due to crate was found on the deaths by crushing, infection, and other causes. The overall pigs' weaning rate from total births was also similar in both crates (P > .05). The daily weight gains of pigs for the 1st wk in the ellipsoid crate did not differ from those of pigs in the rectangular crates (P > .05) but were higher for the period from d 7 to d 21 (P < .05). The ellipsoid crate allowed the sow to turn around and have more freedom to move. However, the increase in sow movement did not cause a higher pig crushing rate than that in the traditional crate (P > .05). Behavioral observations also showed that the ellipsoid farrowing crate permitted easier visual and tactile contact of dams with their pigs and offered pigs better access to the sow's teats.
Characterization of an Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae seeder pig challenge-exposure model.	Five strains of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serotype 1 were used to intranasally infect 5 groups of pigs. Using each bacterial strain, infected pigs (termed seeder pigs) were commingled for 48 hours with 5 groups of noninfected test pigs, then were removed. Seeder and test pigs were maintained in isolation and were observed for 14 days. Seeder pigs had mortality that was threefold greater than that of test pigs (24% vs 8%). Rectal temperature in excess of 40.3 C was achieved for 84% of test pigs and 88% of seeder pigs. Neither of these 2 variables was statistically different between the 2 groups of pigs. Clinical impression scores > or = 2 (on a 0 to 3 scale) were three-fold (64% vs 20%) greater for seeder than for test pigs (P < 0.05). The total number of bacterial isolations or nonrecoverable isolates was tabulated for test and seeder pigs' lungs at necropsy, irrespective of the amount of lesions. The number of A pleuropneumoniae isolations was not statistically different between test and seeder pig populations. Recovery of Pasteurella multocida or other bacteria was greater from the seeder pigs (P < 0.05), whereas the number of non-recoverable isolates was greater from test pigs than from seeder pigs (P < 0.05). Assessment of lung lesions at necropsy by either visual estimation or on a weight basis were in agreement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Early haematological and pathological abnormalities of pathogen-free cats experimentally infected with feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV).	Twelve 8-12-week-old specific-pathogen-free (SPF) cats were inoculated intraperitoneally with feline immunodeficiency virus, or with blood from inoculated cats. Three cats of the same age were used as controls. All animals were sacrificed 10 weeks after inoculation. The inoculated cats seroconverted between the 3rd and 6th weeks after inoculation. For 6 infected cats, a decrease in the CD4/CD8 lymphocyte ratio was observed as early as the 6th to the 10th week after inoculation. Granular lymphocytes and atypical cells with cytoplasmic vacuoles and very irregular nuclei were observed in the blood from the 1st to the 10th weeks after inoculation. The only statistically significant differences were obtained 10 weeks after inoculation. Mean leucocyte and lymphocyte numbers were decreased (8000 and 3200 per microliter respectively compared with 14500 and 7200 per microliter before inoculation). The mean CD4/CD8 ratio was also decreased (from 2.60 to 1.50). The percentage of lymphocytes in the bone marrow was increased, reaching 34% as a mean for infected cats as opposed to 20% for control animals. The atypical cells found in the blood were not observed in the marrow. The sternebral bone marrow did not contain lymphoid follicles, as described for HIV infection. Severe follicular hyperplasia was only found in the lymph nodes, but no viral particles could be observed in them.
Reversible effects of sodium fluoride ingestion on spermatozoa of the rat.	The effects of ingestion of sodium fluoride (NaF), 10 mg/kg body weight for 50 days, on the structure and metabolism of sperm of albino rats (Rattus norvegicus), were investigated. In different groups of rats, the reversible effects upon withdrawal of NaF treatment and by administering some therapeutic agents, viz., ascorbic acid and calcium alone and in combination with NaF (50 and 70 days), on sperm structure and metabolism were also studied. The results revealed that the sperm acrosomal hyaluronidase and acrosin were reduced after 50 days of NaF treatment. Sperm stained with acidic alcoholic silver nitrate revealed acrosomal damage and deflagellation, which might be causative factors for the reduced activity of the enzymes. These alterations also resulted in a decline in sperm motility. The cauda epididymal sperm count was decreased, perhaps because of spermatogenic arrest. Thus, the low sperm motility and count ultimately contributed toward reduction in fertility by NaF treatment. However, withdrawal of NaF treatment for 70 days produced incomplete recovery, while administration of ascorbic acid and calcium, individually and in combination, brought about significant recovery of fluoride-induced effects. Thus, the effects of fluoride on sperm structure and metabolism of rats are transient and reversible.
Genetic and activity-dependent regulation of zif268 expression: association with spatial learning.	We have reported that C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice differ in spatial learning performance and associated hippocampal protein kinase C (PKC) activity (Upchurch and Wehner, 1989, Behav Neurosci 103:1251-1258; Wehner et al., 1990, Brain Res 523:181-187) and that physical activity enhances spatial learning with related alterations in protein kinase C (PKC) (Fordyce and Wehner, 1993b, Brain Res 619:111-119). To assess whether physical activity induces alterations in gene expression that may underlie these changes in PKC and learning performance, we examined the effect of physical activity on expression of zif268, a transcription regulatory factor linked to stimulus-induced neuronal plasticity. C57 and DBA mice, 3 months of age, were subjected to acute (one bout) or chronic (8 weeks) physical activity. The mice were then tested on the Morris water maze task for 6 days with subsequent analysis of PKC activity and zif268 mRNA expression. Control DBA mice, which have poor hippocampal-specific learning performance compared to C57 mice (Wehner et al., 1990, Brain Res 523-181-187; Fordyce and Wehner, 1993b, Brain Res 619:111-119; Paylor et al., 1993, Psychobiology 27:11-26), displayed lower basal levels of zif268 mRNA (P < .05). As observed previously, chronic physical activity produced an enhancement in spatial learning performance accompanied by alterations in hippocampal PKC activity in both strains of mice (P < .05). In addition, the present investigation demonstrated that acute physical activity increased mRNA levels of zif268 in hippocampal regions CA1, CA3 and overlying cortex (P < .005) of both C57 and DBA mice. Chronic physical activity suppressed the basal expression of zif268 in C57 mice in CA1 and overlying cortex below control levels. These findings suggest that genetic and activity-dependent regulation of zif268 may influence learning performance.
Tissue and erythrocyte cholinesterase inhibition and protection by clinoptilolite pretreatment.	The inhibitory effect of VX, an organophosphate nerve agent, on tissue and erythrocyte cholinesterase (ChE) and the protective effect of clinoptilolite (Cli) in male Wistar rats were studied. The tissue and erythrocyte ChE activity were significantly inhibited 30 min after 65.5 micrograms VX/kg body weight administration. The greatest enzyme inhibition was observed in erythrocytes, stomach, brain and liver. The ChE activity after pretreatment with 1.0 g Cli/kg was significantly higher than that in the VX without Cli group in all samples except duodenum and colon.
Treatment with cyclosporin A during sensitization with trimellitic anhydride attenuates the airway responses to allergen challenge three weeks later.	The present studies examined the effects of oral treatment with cyclosporin A, betamethasone or azelastine administered over the time of sensitization with trimellitic anhydride on allergen-induced airway responses, compared to those of control animals given corn oil alone. Drugs were given for 8 days. The animals were sensitized with trimellitic anhydride (0.1 ml of 0.3% w/v) in corn oil given intradermally on days 4 and 5 of drug treatment. Three to four weeks after sensitization with free trimellitic anhydride, the animals were anesthetized, tracheostomized and challenged with trimellitic anhydride conjugated to guinea pig serum albumin (trimellitic anhydride-guinea pig serum albumin; 0.5%; 50 microliters) instilled via the airway route. In the same animal, we measured both lung resistance (RL) to monitor airflow obstruction, and extravasation of Evans Blue dye (20 mg/kg) to quantify airway plasma exudation. In control animals, instillation of trimellitic anhydride-guinea pig serum albumin into the tracheal lumen caused a slowly progressing increase in RL over the observation period (6 min), in addition to extravasation of Evans Blue dye at all airway levels. In animals treated with 50 mg/kg of cyclosporin A, both the allergen-induced increase in RL and extravasation of Evans Blue dye in intrapulmonary airways were significantly attenuated. However, neither betamethasone nor azelastine significantly affected these responses. We conclude that cyclosporin A may influence the immune system in the guinea pig during the induction of allergy, thus leading to attenuation of allergen-induced airway obstruction at later time points.
Cell cycle assessment of adoptive transferred lymphokine activated killer cells.	The use of lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells for adoptive transfer therapy has been reported from number of clinical trials. To our knowledge, however, there has been no report concerning the cell cycle progression of LAK cells. Thus, for the present study we have attempted to examine the LAK cell cycle either before or after transfer. In vitro and in vivo analyses of LAK cells labeled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) were carried out using two-parameter flow cytometries of their nuclear staining using fluorescein isothiocyanate(FITC)-conjugated anti-BrdU antibody and propidium iodide (PI). The in vitro growth of BrdU-positive cells showed the cells to divide once in the S phase, continue to the G2-M phase and return to the G0-G1 phase with a similar pattern after 48 or 72 h culture. They formed a definite subpopulation and were of phenotypes, thy-1.2 (+), Lyt-1.1 (-), Lyt-2.1 (+), L3T4 (-) and AGM1 (+). The percentage of BrdU-positive cells decreased significantly (P < 0.05) when treated with complement plus anti-thy-1.2, anti-Lyt-2.1 or anti-AGM1 anti-bodies, demonstrating BrdU-labeled LAK cells to have the same phenotype as control LAK cells. As in vitro, the in vivo cell cycle of LAK cells 48 and 72 h after transfer had a similar pattern, and the LAK cells also continued on to the S phase after the first division. The in vivo growth of the LAK cells treated with interleukin-2 (IL-2) was promoted 24 and 48 h after transfer. In conclusion, the present study showed LAK cells to be capable of dividing following transfer and to keep their own phenotypic characteristics; also, that treatment with IL-2 may promote their division. Adoptive transfer therapy seems to be a viable therapeutic method.
Distribution of lymphocyte subpopulations in thymus, spleen, and peripheral blood of specific pathogen free pigs from 1 to 40 weeks of age.	Using flow-microfluorometry analysis and cluster determinant (CD) markers, we studied how lymphocyte subpopulations in lymphoid organs of specific-pathogen-free pigs developed in pigs from birth to young adulthood. Cell suspensions of the thymus and spleen were prepared and peripheral blood cells were collected at 1, 4, 10, and 40 weeks of age. Tissue sections of the thymus and spleen were stained with monoclonal antibodies directed against CD2 and immunoglobulin to localize the CD2-Ig- lymphocyte subpopulation. In the thymus, only limited changes were observed in the lymphocyte subpopulations with time. Most thymocytes expressed CD4 or CD8 or both. Most CD2-Ig- cells or, 'null cells', (5-13%) were observed in the medulla of the thymus and probably represented a recirculating cell type. In the spleen and blood the percentage of CD2+ and Ig+ cells increased significantly with time, the former increasing from about 30-60% owing to an increase of CD8+ cells. Therefore, the selective increase of the CD8+ population also caused the CD4/CD8 ratio to change. Although CD2+ cells in the spleen and blood are positive for CD4 or CD8, but not for both, quantities of CD4+ CD8+ cells were also observed. Half of the lymphocytes in the spleen and blood were typed as null cells at 1 week of age and decreased in proportion to the increase of the CD8+ and Ig+ cells. Nevertheless, quantities of null cells were still present in the spleen blood at 40 weeks of age. Almost all these were located in the red pulp of the spleen. This study indicates an effect of age and housing conditions on the distribution of the lymphocyte subpopulations, and especially on the CD8+ subset. Quantities of CD4+CD8+ cells as well as CD4-CD8- were observed in blood, but also in spleen of pigs. The function of high numbers of null cells directly after birth are discussed.
Generation of tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes in vivo by combined treatment with inactivated tumor cells and recombinant interleukin-2.	In order to search for a new therapy that would maximize the effect of interleukin-2 (IL-2) in evoking antitumor immunity in vivo, the therapeutic effect of a combination of mitomycin-C(MMC)-treated tumor cells and recombinant IL-2 was examined for its induction of antitumor activity against established melanoma metastasis. In C57BL/6 mice intravenously (i.v.) injected with B16 melanoma cells on day 0, the combined treatment with an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of MMC-treated melanoma cells on day 6 and 2500 U rIL-2 (twice daily) on days 7 and 8 markedly reduced the number of pulmonary metastases. This antitumor activity was more effective than that in untreated controls and mice that were injected with MMC-treated melanoma cells alone or rIL-2 alone. When the i.p. injection of MMC-treated tumor cells was replaced by other syngeneic tumor cells, antitumor activity against metastatic melanoma was not induced. The antitumor activity induced by this treatment increased in parallel with an increase in the dose of rIL-2 injected. In contrast, an i.p. injection of soluble tumor-specific antigens alone could induce only a marginal level of antitumor activity, and this activity was not augmented by subsequent i.p. injections of rIL-2. In vivo treatment with anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody (mAb), but not with anti-CD4 mAb or anti-asialo-GM1 antibody, abrogated the antitumor activity induced by this combined therapy. This suggests that the antitumor effect was dependent on CD8+ T cells. Lung-infiltrating lymphocytes from mice that had been i.v. injected with melanoma cells 11 days before and were treated with this combined therapy, showed melanoma-specific cytolytic activity. This combined therapy also showed significant antitumor activity against subcutaneously inoculated melanoma cells. These results demonstrate that the combined therapy of an i.p. injection of MMC-treated tumor cells and subsequent and consecutive i.p. administration of rIL-2 increases antitumor activity against established metastatic melanoma by generating tumor-specific CD8+ CTL in vivo.
Pilocarpine alters caries development in partially-desalivated rats.	This study examined the effect of pilocarpine on caries and saliva composition in rats with compromised salivary gland function. Eight litters of specific-pathogen-free female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups for surgery. Partial desalivation was performed in either of three ways: (1) Both parotid ducts were ligated; (2) both submandibular/sublingual (SM/SL) glands were excised, or (3) one parotid duct was ligated, and submandibular/sublingual glands were removed unilaterally. Completely desalivated animals and unoperated animals served as positive and negative controls, respectively. One week following surgery, groups were subdivided so that half of each group had osmotic pumps implanted which delivered pilocarpine HCl (24 mg/kg/day). All animals were infected with Streptococcus sobrinus 6715 and fed cariogenic diet ad libitum for 28 days. Caries scores, microbiological data, and saliva flow rate and composition were determined for all animals. Animals which had both SM/SL glands removed and received pilocarpine developed significantly lower sulcal caries (p < or = 0.05) compared with the animals that had both SM/SL removed but did not receive pilocarpine. The concentration of protein in parotid saliva in these pilocarpine-treated animals was unaffected, and no differences were observed in the electrophoretic profiles on SDS-PAGE. Pilocarpine appears to exert its greatest caries-protective effect when the parotid glands remain intact.
The effect of anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha monoclonal antibody on allergic cutaneous late phase reaction in mice.	Biphasic cutaneous reaction with peak response at 1 (early phase) and 24 to 48 hour (late phase) was elicited by epicutaneous challenge with antigen in actively and passively sensitized mice. Mice were actively immunized with dinitrophenylated (DNP) ascaris antigen and challenged with dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB). Passively sensitization was carried out by the injection of monoclonal anti-DNP-IgE antibody into mice and challenge was elicited with DNFB. Prednisolone at doses of 3 to 10 mg/kg clearly inhibited both early and late phase reactions in either sensitized mice. Monoclonal anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha antibody inhibited the late phase cutaneous reaction in actively sensitized mice. Anti-interleukin-5 (IL-5) monoclonal antibody has no effect on both phase reactions in either actively and passively sensitized animals. These results indicate the possible participation of TNF-alpha in allergic cutaneous late phase reaction in actively sensitized mice.
Effect of immunomodulation on experimental hymenolepiasis nana in mice.	Oral infection of cortisone treated and diabetes induced groups of mice (immunosuppressed) with H. nana eggs, whether before or after infection, showed persistent hyperinfection of the gut with H. nana worms and cysticercoids, dissemination of cysticercoids to the liver and marked degenerative changes in the intestinal mucosa and liver. BCG treated groups (immunostimulated) whether before or after infection, showed no significant changes compared to the control group. Subcutaneous infection of mice resulted in severe localized cellular reaction around and infiltrating the injected H. nana eggs in BCG treated and control groups. BCG did not inhibit larval development, as cysticercoids were found in the injected sites. In cortisone treated and diabetic groups, mild cellular reaction was observed.
Immune response in dogs infected with Ancylostoma duodenale.	The relation between the level of serum immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM, IgA and IgE) percentage of T-lymphocyte and egg counts was studied in dogs infected with Ancylostoma duodenale. The serum IgG levels were significantly high and a marked significance was noticed also in the levels of IgM and IgE. An inverse relationship between the concentration of IgG and egg count and a direct association between the percentage of T-lymphocyte and IgG level was proved.
Kittens choose a high leucine diet even when isoleucine and valine are the limiting amino acids.	This study was conducted to determine the effect of excess leucine on the dietary choice of kittens. The basal diets contained 16% (low nitrogen) or 24% (adequate nitrogen) amino acids and were limiting in isoleucine and valine. The addition of leucine to either of these basal diets has been shown to cause a transitory adverse effect on the growth and food intake of kittens. In separate experiments each basal diet was used to test three sets of choices: basal vs. basal + 10% leucine; basal + alanine vs. basal + leucine (isonitrogenous) and basal vs. basal + alanine. When offered basal vs. basal + excess leucine, the kittens chose significantly more of the excess leucine diet regardless of the level of nitrogen in the basal diet. When offered an isonitrogenous choice of excess alanine vs. excess leucine, the kittens selected somewhat more of the excess leucine diets over the excess alanine diets; this selection was sustained longer in kittens fed low nitrogen. In the third choice experiment (basal vs. basal + alanine), the group offered the low nitrogen diets exhibited no preferences, and the group offered adequate-nitrogen diets selected significantly more of the excess alanine diet. These results for kittens are opposite to those for rats, a species that will select a low protein basal or even a protein-free diet over a diet containing excess leucine.
Neurological abnormalities associated with feline immunodeficiency virus infection.	Specific pathogen-free cats were infected with the Maryland strain of FIV (FIV-MD) for the purpose of assessing the effects of FIV infection on the central nervous system (CNS). Two separate studies were performed, involving a total of 13 infected cats and six age-matched, sham-inoculated controls. All animals infected with FIV-MD seroconverted by 8 weeks post-infection and virus was recovered from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of all infected cats. All of the infected animals had lower absolute CD4+ cells counts and decreased CD4+/CD8+ ratios. Virus was recovered from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of certain infected individuals, and antiviral antibody and pleocytosis were evident in the CSF of the majority of infected cats. Additionally, virus was recovered from tissue explants from the cerebellum, midbrain and brainstem of one sacrificed FIV+ cat. Specific neurological changes included anisocoria, delayed righting reflex and delayed pupillary reflex, as well as delayed visual and auditory evoked potentials, and marked alterations in sleep patterns similar to those reported for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive individuals. Histological evaluation revealed the presence of perivascular cuffing and glial nodules in FIV-infected cats. These results indicate that FIV causes an acute neurological disease that closely resembles the early neurological effects of HIV infection in humans and should serve well as an animal model for lentivirus-induced CNS disease.
Sendai viral pneumonia in aged BALB/c mice.	Sendai virus (SV) infection in aged BALB/c mice was evaluated as a natural model for age-associated susceptibility to viral pneumonia. Young (2 month-old) and aged (22-24 month-old) BALB/c mice were inoculated intranasally with 100 median pneumonia doses (PD50) of SV and examined at 6, 10, and 20 days by virus titration, immunohistochemistry, histopathology, and serology. The aged mice had significantly higher virus titers in lung, prolonged infection, delayed development, and resolution of pneumonia and significantly lower serum antibody titers. In a second experiment, the responses of young mice were compared to intermediate-aged mice (11-13 and 17-18 months old). The intermediate-aged mice had some characteristics of young mice and others of aged mice. The results indicate that SV infection can be used to study aging-associated susceptibility to a pneumotropic virus in a natural host, and that susceptibility of mice to viral pneumonia increases gradually during aging.
Percutaneous uptake, distribution, and excretion of pyrene in rats.	Groups of 12 male Wistar rats, of about 400 g body weight, were dosed with 2, 6, or 15 mg/kg of 14C-labeled pyrene, dissolved in acetone, applied to 4 cm2 of a shaved area of the mid back. Three animals in each dose group were killed at 1, 2, 4, and 6 d post-dosing, and their principal organs were removed and analyzed for pyrene and [14C]pyrene equivalents. Urine and feces, as well as the area of skin to which the dose was applied, were also analyzed for [14C]pyrene equivalents. The rate of uptake from the skin was rapid (t1/2 0.5-0.8 d) relative to rate processes for the other organs, and about 50% of the applied dose was excreted over the 6 d of the study. The significant decrease in the fraction of the dose excreted and in the normalized amounts distributed to the various organs and tissues, as the dose increased for all chemical species measured, was strongly suggestive of nonlinear kinetics, as has been observed in previous studies. Levels of pyrene were highest in the liver, kidneys, and fat. Levels of metabolites were also high in the lung. It was evident that the dermal route of uptake was not insignificant for this model polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon and may represent a significant exposure route for exposed humans.
Husbandry factors and the prevalence of age-related amyloidosis in mice.	A retrospective study of the prevalence of amyloidosis in mice from several facilities was done. Amyloid deposition is an age-related lesion. The influence of common laboratory factors on the occurrence of this lesion was analyzed. This study documented genotypic difference in susceptibility to amyloidosis and showed that caging and pathogen status both impact on the number of cases of amyloidosis seen in a population. The lowest percentage of affected mice was seen when the animals were individually caged in a specific pathogen-free facility where conditions of stress were minimized.
Necator americanus in inbred mice: a re-evaluation of primary infection kinetics.	The course of a primary Necator americanus infection was studied in the lungs and small intestines of syngeneic mice. Following percutaneous infection no difference in initial larval establishment in the lungs was found between male BALB/c, NIH or B10.G mice. However, significant differences in the subsequent kinetics of infection were demonstrated between the BALB/c and NIH strains. Lung worm burdens declined more slowly in NIH mice than in BALB/c strain. Surprisingly, however, a greater proportion of larvae remaining in the lungs of BALB/c mice, 9 days p.i., were trapped than in NIH mice. Nevertheless, establishment in the small intestines of the BALB/c strain was consistently greater than in NIH mice. Host immunosuppression resulted in increased larval retention in the lungs of both the BALB/c and NIH strains as well as in the small intestines of BALB/c mice. Treatment with hydrocortisone acetate did not increase intestinal worm burdens in NIH mice. The data presented suggest that, in this complex, dynamic model system, designation of 'susceptible' and 'resistant' strains is inappropriate. The factors underlying the observed strain differences in resistance to infection are discussed.
Strain-dependent effect of ethanol on ventricular septal defect frequency in White Leghorn chick embryos.	We have tested the potential of a single dose of ethanol (0.20 ml 50% ethanol in chick Ringer's saline (CRS) administered into the air sac) to produce ventricular septal defect (VSD) in three distinct commercially available strains of White Leghorn chick embryo: stress-resistant Dekalb Delta strain, Hy-Vac SPF type V, and Hy-Vac SPF type L. Eggs were controlled for both size and developmental stage (Hamburger-Hamilton stage 18-19) at time of injection. The frequency of VSD in Dekalb Delta embryos was 4.0% (1/25), in Hy-Vac SPF type L embryos 9.1% (3/33), and in Hy-Vac SPF type V embryos 38.9% (14/36). Statistical analysis with the two-tailed Fisher Exact Test indicated that frequencies were not significantly different (P = 0.3215) when Dekalb Delta and Hy-Vac type L embryos were compared. However, the frequency of VSD for Hy-Vac type V embryos was significantly greater than that for either the Dekalb Delta or the Hy-Vac type L embryos (P < 0.005). All VSDs observed were located within the crista supraventricularis. When Hy-Vac SPF type V embryos were exposed to either 0.20 ml 50% ethanol in CRS or to 0.20 ml CRS (controls), ethanol-treated embryos showed a VSD incidence of 34.1% compared with a 3.6% incidence in the controls (P = 0.0017). These data suggest that ethanol is the cause of VSD in this strain. From the results of this study, we are led to conclude that different commercial strains of White Leghorn chick embryo show different susceptibilities to the induction of VSD by ethanol.
Protective immunity following immunisation of pigs with aerosol of Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae serotype 2.	To introduce antigen to the respiratory mucosa, killed Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae with quil A as adjuvant was administered to pigs as an aerosol. Immunisation by this aerosol induced a marked IgA response in the bronchoalveolar and nasal fluids, and in the serum. Following challenge with live bacteria two weeks after the last exposure to the aerosol, the immunised pigs were protected from the severe pleuropneumonia which developed in non-immunised pigs. The immunised pigs had lower antibody titres in the mucosal fluids and serum after exposure to the challenge. The immune response after experimental infection of non-immunised animals was a weak IgA antibody response in the bronchoalveolar and nasal fluids, whereas the systemic immune response after challenge included both IgA and IgG antibodies.
Oxygen concentration and asexual development of Eimeria tenella in cell cultures.	Primary chicken kidney cells in Flexiperm cultures were either inoculated with Eimeria tenella sporozoites or incubated as noninoculated controls. Oxygen concentration was reduced (10 or 15 vol% O2, 5 vol% CO2) or increased (25 or 30 vol% O2, 5 vol% CO2) in a triple gas incubator (Heraeus B 5061 EK/O2) and retained in a CO2-air incubator (20 vol% O2, 5 vol% CO2) 24 hours post inoculation (hpi). Mature second generation schizonts (mS2) were counted microscopically at 120 hpi and numbers were compared either as mS2 or mS2/cm2 confluent cells. Asexual development of Eimeria tenella was neither stimulated nor inhibited by different oxygen concentrations, indicating that higher numbers of schizonts in cultures under reducing conditions reported earlier are probably a result of increased invasion rates of sporozoites.
Aerogenous immunostimulation of weaner swine against experimentally induced respiratory infections with Pasteurella multocida]	The clearance of Pasteurella, Bordetella and Haemophilus from the lung of weaners was increased by aerogenous immunostimulations using a lysate mixture consisting of 12 strains of 8 bacterial species, as well as live and inactivated temperature sensitive mutants of Pasteurella multocida. The severity of experimental pneumonias caused by Pasteurella has also been decreased by this treatment. The effect of the lysate was shown to be unspecific and short, as antibody production against Pasteurella was not induced and no booster effect of subsequent aerogenous immunizations with Pasteurella antigens could be detected.
The infection risk for dogs raised helminth-free in conventional conditions in an urban area]	The present investigations were carried out to clarify whether or not and to what extent helminth-free raised dogs acquire patent and impatent helminth infections when exposed to an urban area contaminated with dog faeces. Groups of each 3 bitches at an age of 3, 6 or 9 months were taken out to an urban area (with average dog density of 1.5 per ha) for 3 hours daily on 5 days per week for a period of 3 month. During the whole trial the bitches and puppies born during this period were maintained under conditions which excluded other infections than those acquired during exposure in the urban area. The examination of the animals had the following results: All 9 bitches remained coproscopically negative until the end of the trial. In these bitches neither intestinal stages nor somatic helminth larvae were found. Seven out of 45 puppies from these bitches shed Toxocara canis eggs with the faeces. Shedding of eggs began 21 to 28 days after birth. Eggs excretion in most cases was low (< 33 eggs per gram). In 12 puppies from 5 litters intestinal stages of T. canis were found with a maximum of 4 specimens per animal. In 9 puppies only male or female T. canis were found.
Course of infection and humoral immune reaction in calves infected orally with different Salmonella serovars.	5 groups of five calves each were orally infected with the salmonella serovar S. agona, S. dublin, S. enteritidis, S. infantis or S. typhimurium. The course of infection and the humoral immune response against 5 antigen preparations of the homologous and the 4 heterologous salmonella serovars were monitored in each group. Antibodies against two different protein antigens and against two differently prepared LPS antigens were determined by ELISA and the level of H-agglutinin was assessed by micro agglutination test. All 5 serovars proved to be virulent for calves. The specificity of antibodies produced following the infection are not always consistent with the Kauffmann-White scheme. There was a relation of age and strain for infection on immune response, whereas the severity of infection did no correlate with an increase of antibody production. The serological tests used were good for investigation of a defined host-parasite-interaction but not satisfactory for serovar specific diagnosis of salmonella infection in cattle.
Selenium deficiency augments the pulmonary toxic effects of oxygen exposure in the rat.	Selenium (Se) is a component of the antioxidant enzyme glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx). We wanted to determined whether Se deficiency predisposes to pulmonary O2 toxicity. Sixteen weanling rats were fed a Se-free diet (Se-). Sixteen rats fed the same diet had drinking water supplemented with 400 micrograms.l-1 sodium selenite (Se+). After 5 weeks, rats were killed after exposure to either 95% O2 or air for 36 h. Se concentration in blood, lung, liver, heart, muscle and spleen, and blood GSHPx activity were higher in Se+ than in Se- groups. Pulmonary oedema developed in both O2-exposed groups, but was more severe in Se-O2 group than in the Se+O2 group, as judged by the presence of pleural effusions (7 out of 8 versus 0 out of 8), elevated lavage protein concentration (173 +/- 17 versus 120 +/- 14 micrograms.ml-1), and higher wet/dry weight ratio (W:D) (5.8 +/- 0.07 versus 5.4 +/- 0.07). W:D correlated inversely with lung Se content in O2-exposed rats. Both O2-exposed groups had a reduction in the amount of less aggregated lavage phospholipid (PL) compared with the Se+air group. However, the Se-O2 group had increased total PL, because of an increase in more aggregated PL. We conclude that Se deficiency exacerbates pulmonary injury in O2-exposed rats, and that O2 toxicity is associated with an altered physical form of alveolar surfactant.
Effector mechanisms involved in cytokine-mediated bacteriostasis of Mycobacterium avium infections in murine macrophages.	In this study we found that addition of a range of doses of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), or granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) to cultures of bone marrow-derived murine macrophages infected with the 25291 strain of Mycobacterium avium gave rise to varying degrees of bacteriostasis. In contrast, similar treatment with interleukin-4 (IL-4) or IL-6 had no effect. However, when similar experiments with the former set of cytokines were performed using a panel of M. avium isolates, substantial isolate-to-isolate variation was observed. In cultures containing IFN-gamma, synthesis of substantial levels of reactive nitrogen intermediates was observed; however, neither these materials, nor reactive oxygen intermediates, were found to be responsible for observed bacteriostasis. In further experiments, in which the culture medium was supplemented with various concentrations of a weak acid or a weak base in order to influence the pH of macrophage intracellular compartments, it was found that the presence of the weak acid augmented the activity of IFN-gamma, whilst the weak base counteracted this effect. These data support the hypothesis, therefore, that the bacteriostatic effect of IFN-gamma against the growth of M. avium, rather than depending on reactive radical production, is mediated through acidification of the infected phagosome, perhaps through activation of proton pumps in the phagosomal membrane.
Radiation-induced astrocytic and microglial responses in mouse brain.	The aim of this study was to investigate the responses of astrocytes and microglia to whole brain irradiation. Levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which is a marker for astrocytes, were measured by ELISA in irradiated brains taken at varying time points after irradiation. GFAP levels were increased between 120 and 180 days after single doses of 20-45 Gy radiation, but not after lower doses (2 or 8 Gy). The increases in GFAP levels were confirmed by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemical staining which showed that the number of GFAP-positive astrocytes was increased, as was their staining intensity. Coincidently with the increase in astrocyte staining, there was an increase in the number and the intensity of microglial cell staining for Mac I antigen. Autoradiography of brain tissue following in vivo administration of [3H]thymidine showed an increased number of labelled cells during the same time period. The radiation-induced astrocytic and microglial responses that follows brain irradiation is indicative of reactive gliosis and inflammation occurring during the latent period up to the onset of late radiation-induced injury. This gliosis increases with radiation dose. The possibility that gliosis may participate in modifying postirradiation injury in the brain is discussed.
FRAR course on laboratory approaches to aging. Microbiological effects and quality control in laboratory rodents.	Numerous viruses, mycoplasmas, bacteria and parasites have been associated with infectious diseases in laboratory animals. It is clear that pathogenic agents causing overt disease represent a serious hazard to research results in both short- as well as long-term studies. However, these organisms may contaminate colonies without causing any clinical or pathological symptom. This makes research less reliable because of the more subtle effects of the silent infections, especially in long-term studies as in aging research. The establishment of animal colonies that were free from these (micro-) organisms has increased substantially the value of animals used in biomedical research. Characterization of the health status and microbiological monitoring of the animals in experiments are particularly important. This paper reviews many of the major considerations in the efforts to maintain animals free of unwanted organisms, including quality and sources of animals, transportation and quarantine, maintenance during experimentation, microbiological characterization and monitoring of animals and environment.
Active oxygen formation in alveolar macrophage and pulmonary tumorigenesis.	Glycerol enhances pulmonary tumorigenesis in mice treated with 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO). In order to evaluate factors that contribute to the enhancing effect of glycerol on 4NQO-induced pulmonary tumorigenesis, we selected alveolar macrophage (AM) as a source of active oxygen formation in the lung and investigated the effects of glycerol on active oxygen formation in AMs treated with 4NQO. AMs were stimulated with opsonized zymosan, and active oxygen formation in AMs was examined after stimulation. Continuous glycerol treatment within 4 weeks after 4NQO injection has no influence on the capacity of active oxygen generation in AMs (expressed as maximum count of chemiluminescence) and the total amount of active oxygen generation in AMs (expressed as total count of chemiluminescence). These results suggest that active oxygen formation in AMs does not contribute to enhance 4NQO-induced pulmonary tumorigenesis in mice treated with glycerol.
History and pathology of an enzootic Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in athymic Han:RNU and Han:NZNU rats.	A report is given on the history and pathology of an enzootic outbreak of spontaneous Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) that occurred in a colony of male and female athymic Han:RNU rnu/rnu and Han:NZNU rnuN/rnuN rats maintained in a longevity study from weaning up to their natural death. The rats were obtained from specified pathogen free (SPF) breeding colonies and were kept in a barrier type animal quarter with standardized housing conditions. Groups of heterozygous, euthymic littermates in the same room remained unaffected. First cases of PCP were observed simultaneously in both stocks and both sexes when the rats were 15 to 18 months old. During the following 18 months, most of the animals developed pneumonia. Shortly prior to death the animals showed dyspnea and cachexia. Gross examination revealed focal or diffuse pulmonary consolidation. Histologically, characteristic lung lesions consisted of an interstitial pneumonia with perivascular and peribronchiolar infiltrations and with clusters of foamy macrophages within single or groups of alveoli. Most prominent in moderate and severe infections was an amorphous, honey-combed eosinophilic material within enlarged alveolar spaces. The diagnosis was based on the histological identification of Pneumocystis carinii (Pc) cysts in lung sections stained with Grocott's methenamine silver and was confirmed immunohistochemically. The evaluation of all evidence leads to the conclusion that Pc was introduced into the experimental colony by care-takers. The high incidence of PCP and its resemblance to human PCP indicate the suitability of athymic Han:RNU and Han:NZNU rats as natural models for this disease.
The modification of Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase by monomethoxypolyethylene glycol improves the indices of the experimental therapy of the ischemic myocardium in rats]	Mice were used to make a comparative study of the biological distribution of intravenous preparations of native and monomethoxypolyethylene glycol-modified superoxide dismutase isolated from bovine liver, as well as native and aldehyde dextran. The study demonstrated that the biodistribution of the native enzymes from various sources was, however, equal, but in the mouse liver there was a higher accumulation of SOD isolated from the rat liver. AD-SOD was found to have a longer half-life in the blood and in the liver of mice, in particular, while MPEG-SOD showed 10, 15, and 16 times longer in the lungs, blood and heart of the animals examined, respectively. The elevated accumulation of MPEG-SOD in some organs was used for their treatment, particularly for experimental therapy of rat myocardial ischemia. A rat model of ischemia demonstrated that the intravenous bolus administration of MPEG-SOD reduced the size of a myocardial necrotic area by 40% as compared to a 13% decrease when the other compounds were assayed. The findings suggest that the MPEG-SOD preparation is promising for decreasing reperfusion injuries of the cardiovascular system and the lungs.
Onset of resistance to light Hymenolepis nana infection in mice of different strains.	Rapidity in onset of resistance against Hymenolepis nana egg infection after a light primary infection was studied in low and high responder mice challenged at different time intervals. A very rapid acquisition of protection was observed in C57 and a delayed response in C3H mice. In both cases the effect of resistance on weight or worm number was related to the time of challenge infection, suggesting a "race against time" involving host response and parasite development, the outcome varying according to host genetic background.
Regulation of lipopolysaccharide-induced tumor necrosis factor production by cyclosporin A in mice primed with muramyl dipeptide.	The effect of cyclosporin A (CsA) on tumor necrosis factor (TNF) or interleukin-6 (IL-6) production was evaluated in vivo in primed or unprimed mice challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Both pretreatment with BCG infection or with muramyl dipeptide (MDP) prior to LPS challenge resulted in an increase in the cytokine bioactivity level in the blood. CsA administration inhibited the TNF production. In unprimed mice, either normal or sensitized to LPS lethality by galactosamine treatment, a marked decrease in the cytokine level was observed after injection of CsA. After adrenalectomy, the yield of both TNF and IL-6 following LPS injection was markedly elevated but decreased by CsA administration. Ex vivo experiments have shown that the inhibitory effect of CsA could be demonstrated at the level of macrophages from mice previously given the drug. If mice had received MDP, in vitro responses of cells to LPS were enhanced but again CsA decreased the mRNA expression and protein secretion.
Response of hepatic function to hepatic copper deposition in rats fed a diet containing copper.	Fischer rats were a fed diet supplied with copper chloride (150-600 ppm) for 60 d from weaning. Serum (glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT) activities were increased with the increase of Cu concentration in the diet. Biliary excretion of Cu was related to the dietary Cu level. Depositions of hepatic and renal Cu were also related to the dietary Cu level in a dose-dependent manner. In particular, hepatic (155.2 +/- 13.3 micrograms/g) and renal (44.9 +/- 4.4 micrograms/g) Cu concentrations increased abruptly in the Cu-600 ppm group. In the liver, about 60% of Cu was distributed in the soluble fraction (100,000 g supernatant). In the Cu-600 ppm group, 25% of cystosolic Cu was bound to metallothionein (MT). Our results suggest that chronic exposure to Cu appears to have a deleterious effect on the hepatic function, and further, that even in rats with normal biliary Cu excretion, clearance of Cu from the liver may be marginal when dietary Cu is near the 600-ppm level. Although Cu is an essential nutrient, an overload of Cu should be avoided.
Experimental oral infection of specific pathogen-free laying hens and cocks with Salmonella enteritidis strains.	A total of 105 specific pathogen-free (SPF) laying hens and eight cocks were orally infected with strains of Salmonella enteritidis. The organs of these animals were examined bacteriologically for up to 6 weeks post infectionem (p.i.). One-half of the eggs laid on a single day were examined 1 day after laying, and the other half 28 days after laying. The siderophore, ferrioxamine E, was added to the pre-enrichment medium. A high correlation was found to exist between colonization of the caecum by salmonellas and the level of contamination of the egg shell. No correlation was found between the contamination of the egg shell and that of the egg content. The strains used for infection were not recovered from any yolk out of a total of 938 eggs. S. enteritidis was isolated from the albumen in four cases (0.4%). Storage of the eggs for 28 days after laying resulted in a decrease in the frequency of salmonella detection on the egg shell and in the egg content. The strains used for infection could be isolated from various sections of the sexual organs for up to 2 weeks p.i. S. enteritidis was most frequently found in the ovary and rarely in the oviduct, but never in the pre-ovulatory mature follicles. In the groups that included salmonella-infected cocks, the salmonella detection frequency did not increase either for the egg content or for the organs of the laying hens. It seems that primary vertical transmission of salmonellas occurs, in rare cases, as a result of an infection of the albumen but not of the yolk.
Infection model for hatching chicks infected with Salmonella enteritidis.	A total of six different strains of Salmonella enteritidis (phage type 4) were used for the artificial infection of the egg yolk and albumen of SPF hatching eggs. An artificial yolk infection with low infection doses of S. enteritidis resulted in a considerable multiplication of salmonellas in the egg after a short time and a rapid embryonic death. After inoculation of 10(3) cfu of different S. enteritidis strains into the albumen, living day-old chicks infected with salmonellas were hatched. This model corresponds to a primary vertical transmission of salmonellas and permits the investigation of problems concerning the pathogen/host relationship.
Disposition of polaprezinc (zinc L-carnosine complex) in rat gastrointestinal tract and effect of cimetidine on its adhesion to gastric tissues.	The disposition of polaprezinc in the rat gastrointestinal tract was studied by a double tracer method using [14C]- and [65Zn]polaprezinc. At 0.5 h after oral administration of [14C]-,[65Zn]polaprezinc to rats, the 14C-radioactivity in the gastric contents was comparable with the 65Zn-radioactivity. However, a significant difference was observed in the time course of changes in gastric contents between 14C- and 65Zn-radioactivity over 1 h after administration, indicating that polaprezinc existed in complex form at 0.5 h after administration and was dissociated to L-carnosine and zinc in the gastrointestinal tract as a function of time. The adhesion of zinc to stomach mucosa after oral administration of polaprezinc to rats was significantly increased by treatment with cimetidine. These results suggest that the adhesion of zinc to gastric tissues is increased by inhibiting the dissociation of polaprezinc, and that H2-receptor antagonists, such as cimetidine, may increase anti-ulcer effects of polaprezinc.
A comparison of phagocytosis by the retinal pigment epithelium in normal and delayed amelanotic chickens.	The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) performs a critical role in maintaining the integrity and renewal of the retinal system by clearing the shed photoreceptor outer segment debris through the process of phagocytosis. If phagocytosis is impaired, accumulation of the debris occurs leading to the degeneration of the retina. Phagocytosis, measured by polyvinyl toluene bead uptake is a normal cell activity exhibited by the embryonic retinal pigment epithelium even before complete differentiation of the neuronal layers. It is significant that embryonic pigment epithelium from either normal or delayed amelanotic (DAM) strain is competent in the process of non-specific particle uptake. In normal chickens non-specific phagocytic activity is observable as early as embryonic day 9 and continues through the rest of the developmental period and throughout adult life. The retinal pigment epithelium in DAM chickens exhibits early phagocytic activity at embryonic day 9 and then through day 16, but by day 19 this function is lost. This loss of phagocytic capacity in RPE of the DAM strain precedes and may be instrumental in the gradual retinal degeneration exhibited by these animals. Specific phagocytosis of rod outer segments (ROS) was examined in 4-week-old post-hatch normal and DAM RPE. Phagocytosis of ROS was greatly reduced in DAM RPE implying that the defect in the DAM is expressed in non-specific and specific phagocytosis. This study indicates that the DAM retinal system can now serve as an alternative and comparative model for studying different aspects of retinal degeneration.
Sinusoidal capillarization and arterial blood supply continuously proceed with the advance of the stages of hepatocarcinogenesis in the rat.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is supplied only with arterial blood and has capillaries instead of sinusoids, unlike the normal hepatic tissue. In order to reveal the sequential changes of sinusoidal structure and blood supply during hepatocarcinogenesis, we examined hyperplastic nodules (HPN), atypical hyperplastic nodules (AHPN) and HCC in F344 rats fed with 2-acetylaminofluorene for 25-35 weeks. The extent of arterial blood supply and the degree of sinusoidal capillarization were assessed by the staining of hepatic nodules with arterially infused ink and by immunohistochemical and ultrastructural analyses of the sinusoids, respectively. The proportion of arterialized nodules was 47% in HPN, 57% in AHPN and 85% in HCC, which indicates that arterialization begins at the stage of HPN and a few HCC still receive portal venous blood. The proportion of Factor-VIII-related antigen (F-VIII)-positive nodules was 25% in HPN, 40% in AHPN and 100% in HCC. Non-arterialized nodules did not express F-VIII, while some F-VIII-negative nodules were already arterialized. Electron microscopically, non-arterialized HPN exhibited normal features of sinusoids, while arterialized HPN showed disappearance of Kupffer cells and partial defenestration of sinusoidal endothelial cells. In non-arterialized and arterialized AHPN, basement membrane became continuous and lipid droplet-containing stellate cells were no longer seen. In HCC, endothelial fenestrae were diminished and basement membrane became thick. The present study has demonstrated that sinusoids are altered in the following order as hepatocarcinogenesis advances from HPN to HCC; onset of arterialization and decrease of endothelial fenestrae, expression of F-VIII by endothelial cells, disappearance of Kupffer cells, diminution of lipid droplets in stellate cells and thickening of basement membrane.
Inhibition of ozone-induced nitric oxide synthase expression in the lung by endotoxin.	Inhalation of the pulmonary irritant ozone is associated with an accumulation of macrophages in the lung. These cells, along with type II epithelial cells, are activated to release increased quantities of hydrogen peroxide and nitric oxide, two reactive mediators that have been implicated in tissue injury. In the present studies we determined whether pretreatment of rats with bacterially derived endotoxin, which modulates oxidant levels in tissues, could abrogate the effects of ozone on lung injury and nitric oxide production. Acute exposure of rats to ozone (2 parts per million, 3 h) resulted in nitric oxide production in the lung as measured by electron paramagnetic resonance spin trapping. This was correlated with expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA in the lung as determined by in situ hybridization. Particularly high levels of iNOS were evident in alveolar macrophages and type II cells. Alveolar macrophages isolated from ozone-treated rats also expressed increased iNOS mRNA and protein as measured by Northern and Western blotting, respectively, and produced more nitric oxide compared with cells from air-exposed animals. Treatment of rats with endotoxin (5 mg/kg, intravenously), 30 min prior to ozone, was found to abrogate ozone-induced increases in iNOS mRNA and protein expression, as well as nitric oxide production by alveolar macrophages. This was associated with a reduction in ozone-induced tissue injury as determined by levels of lung lavage fluid protein. Ozone inhalation also resulted in a reduction in intracellular glutathione in alveolar macrophages, an effect that was blocked by endotoxin administration. Taken together, these data provide evidence that the protective effects of endotoxin against ozone-induced injury are mediated, at least in part, by alterations in levels of lung oxidants and antioxidants.
Regulation of heme oxygenase-1 expression in vivo and in vitro in hyperoxic lung injury.	Using hyperoxia as a model of oxidant-induced lung injury in the rat, we explored the regulation of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression in vivo and in vitro. We demonstrate marked increase of HO-1 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels in rat lungs after hyperoxia. Increased HO-1 mRNA expression correlated with increased HO-1 protein and enzyme activity. Immunohistochemical studies of the rat lung after hyperoxia showed increased HO-1 expression in a variety of cell types, including the bronchoalveolar epithelium and interstitial and inflammatory cells. We then examined the regulation of HO-1 expression in vitro after hyperoxia and observed increased HO-1 gene expression in various cultured cells including epithelial cells, fibroblasts, macrophages, and smooth muscle cells. Increased HO-1 mRNA expression correlated with increased HO-1 protein in vitro, and resulted from increased gene transcription and not from increased mRNA stability. We show that transcriptional activation of the HO-1 gene by hyperoxia requires cooperation between the HO-1 promoter and an enhancer fragment located 4 kb upstream from its transcription site. Increased HO-1 gene transcription was associated with increased activator protein-1 (AP-1) binding activity and supershift of the AP-1 complex by antibodies to c-Fos and c-Jun after hyperoxia. Taken together, our data suggest that AP-1 activation may represent one mechanism mediating hyperoxia-induced HO-1 gene transcription.
The effect of thrombopoietin on the proliferation and differentiation of murine hematopoietic stem cells.	In this study, we explored whether thrombopoietin (Tpo) has a direct in vitro effect on the proliferation and differentiation of long-term repopulating hematopoietic stem cells (LTR-HSC). We previously reported a cell separation method that uses the fluorescence-activated cell sorter selection of low Hoescht 33342/low Rhodamine 123 (low Ho/low Rh) fluorescence cell fractions that are highly enriched for LTR-HSC and can reconstitute lethally irradiated recipients with fewer than 20 cells. Low Ho/low Rh cells clone with high proliferative potential in vitro in the presence of stem cell factor (SCF) + interleukin-3 (IL-3) + IL-6 (90% to 100% HPP-CFC). Tpo alone did not induce proliferation of these low Ho/low Rh cells. However, in combination with SCF or IL-3, Tpo had several synergistic effects on cell proliferation. When Tpo was added to single growth factors (either SCF or IL-3 or the combination of both), the time required for the first cell division of low Ho/low Rh cells was significantly shortened and their cloning efficiency increased substantially. Moreover, the subsequent clonal expansion at the early time points of culture was significantly augmented by Tpo. Low Ho/low Rh cells, when assayed in agar directly after sorting, did not form megakaryocyte colonies in any growth condition tested. Several days of culture in the presence of multiple cytokines were required to obtain colony-forming units-megakaryocyte (CFU-Mk). In contrast, more differentiated, low Ho/high Rh cells, previously shown to contain short-term repopulating hematopoietic stem cells (STR-HSC), were able to form megakaryocyte colonies in agar when cultured in Tpo alone directly after sorting. These data establish that Tpo acts directly on primitive hematopoietic stem cells selected using the Ho/Rh method, but this effect is dependent on the presence of pluripotent cytokines. These cells subsequently differentiate into CFU-Mk, which are capable of responding to Tpo alone. Together with the results of previous reports of its effects on erythroid progenitors, these results suggest that the effects of Tpo on hematopoiesis are greater than initially anticipated.
Oral immunization of mice against candidiasis.	Oral immunization with live Candida albicans evoked antibody- and cell-mediated immune responses in gnotobiotic C.B-17 and BALB/c mice. No deaths or systemic candidiasis of endogenous origin were evident in these C. albicans-colonized (pure culture) mice. Histologic examination showed minimal to no infection of the stomach, esophagus, or tongue by C. albicans. Not only were orally immunized mice more resistant to systemic candidiasis (intravenous challenge) than were germfree (nonimmunized) controls, but immunity could be transferred to susceptible mice with immune spleen cells. Oral immunization elicited a Th1-type response in spleen cells and a Th2 response in Peyer's patch lymphocytes. The alimentary tracts of these orally immunized mice remained chronically colonized with C. albicans in spite of the presence of both antibody- and cell-mediated immune responses to C. albicans.
Antitumor activity of a novel podophyllotoxin derivative (TOP-53) against lung cancer and lung metastatic cancer.	We synthesized a potent new antitumor podophyllotoxin derivative (4beta-aminoalkyl-4'-O-demethyl-4-desoxypodophyllotoxin; TOP-53) in our search for a drug that has strong activity against lung cancer and lung metastatic cancer. TOP-53 exhibited twice the inhibitory activity of etoposide (VP-16) against topoisomerase II and induced DNA strand breaks but showed no inhibitory activity against tubulin polymerization. The in vitro cytotoxic activity of TOP-53 assessed as IC50 was 0.016-0.37 microg/ml and 0.26-8.9 microg/ml against marine tumor and human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines, respectively. TOP-53 exerted significant efficacy equivalent to that of VP-16 on s.c.-implanted murine solid tumors (Colon 26, B16-BL6, and Lewis lung carcinoma) at doses 3-5 times lower than that of VP-16. In human tumor xenografts using NSCLC, TOP-53 was active for four of five tumors, whereas VP-16 was active for two of five tumors. Potent inhibitory activity of TOP-53 was also found against a lung tumor (Lewis lung carcinoma) and four lung metastatic tumors (NL-22 and NL-17 colon cancer, UV2237M fibrosarcoma, and K1735M2 melanoma). TOP-53 appeared to be more active against four of them than VP-16. Thus, TOP-53 is not only active against s.c.-implanted lung cancers but also strongly active against lung localized tumor and metastatic tumors in the lungs. The high selectivity of TOP-53 was attributed to its high distribution into the lung and its persistence. TOP-53 is expected to be highly effective against lung cancer including NSCLC and various lung metastatic tumors in the clinical field.
Control of lymphatic and hematogenous metastasis of a rat mammary carcinoma by the matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor batimastat (BB-94).	We examined the effects of the synthetic matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor batimastat (BB-94) on lung colonization and spontaneous metastasis of a rat mammary carcinoma, HOSP.1P. This tumor expresses both latent and active forms of the matrix metalloproteinases MMP-2 and MMP-9, although the former, as in human breast cancer, is the most prominent. Administration of batimastat (6 x 30 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited by up to 80% both the number and median weights of HOSP.1P lung colonies following i.v. inoculation of cells. This implies an effect both on seeding efficiency and subsequent tumor development. In spontaneous metastasis assays, limited treatment with batimastat (commencing when s.c. tumors were established and continuing until 5 or 14 days after their surgical removal) significantly inhibited lung metastasis but had little effect on lymphatic metastasis. However, when treatment was initiated 2 days prior to surgery and continued until day 70, 100% of animals survived to day 120 when there was no evidence of metastatic disease. All control animals (n = 25) in two separate experiments died before day 100 with lymphatic, lung, and extrapulmonary metastases. Taken together, these data suggest that lymphatic dissemination by HOSP.1P tumor cells is less susceptible to inhibition by batimastat than vascular invasion, but that long-term treatment can effectively prevent the outgrowth of putative micrometastases in both lymph nodes and lungs, allowing sustained tumor-free survival.
Antibiotic prophylaxis and treatment of reactive arthritis. Lessons from an animal model.	To study the effect of antibiotic prophylaxis and treatment of reactive arthritis (ReA), using an experimental model.
A clinical nude mouse metastatic model for highly malignant human pancreatic cancer.	Pancreatic cancer is a highly aggressive and treatment-refractory cancer. A clinically-relevant animal model is necessary to develop therapy for metastatic pancreatic cancer. In this study we evaluated the efficacy of mitomycin C (MMC) and 5-FU against the human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line PAN-12 in an orthotopic human metastatic pancreatic cancer nude mice model. The model is constructed by surgical orthotopic implantation (SOI) of histologically intact tumor tissue in the tail portion of the pancreas near the spleen. PAN-12 grew very aggressively in the control group of nude mice with extensive local invasion and distant metastasis to various organs with a propensity for the lung but to other organs as well, including the liver, kidney and regional and distant lymph nodes. In a striking effect none of the mice in the MMC-treated group developed tumor. Although mice in the 5-FU treated group survived statistically significantly longer than those in the untreated control, the overall incidence of metastasis in these mice was equivalent to those in the control. However no liver or kidney metastases were found in the 5-FU treated animals perhaps accounting in part for their longer survival. This "clinical" nude mouse model of highly metastatic pancreatic cancer can now be used to discover new effective agents for this disease.
Selective induction of mucosal immune responses to 2-acetylaminofluorene.	Mucosal vaccination with chemical carcinogens coupled to enterotoxins such as cholera toxin (CT) can elicit carcinogen-specific immunoglobulin secretion into the intestinal lumen. The present study examines the ability of several related bacterial enterotoxins and their subunits to act as adjuvants or carrier proteins in stimulating an intestinal secretory IgA (S-IgA) response to 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF). Using Thiry-Vella loops in rabbits, CT, cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) and the recombinant B subunit of the heat labile enterotoxin from E. coli (rLTB) were all found to be effective carrier proteins and adjuvants for eliciting S-IgA anti-AAF. However, marked differences in the ratio of mucosal S-IgA to serum IgG production were observed. CT elicited the highest luminal S-IgA anti-AAF titers as well as the highest ratio of intestinal S-IgA/serum IgG when used as an adjuvant. Conversely, rLTB elicited a high serum IgG anti-AAF titer but only a modest intestinal S-IgA response. Dialysis studies using monoclonal IgA versus IgG anti-AAF on opposing sides of a semipermeable membrane demonstrated the potential importance of the intestinal S-IgA/serum IgG ratio. A high "intestinal" IgA/"serum" IgG ratio abolished carcinogen transfer to the "serum" side of the membrane, while a low ratio enhanced transfer. Thus, to generate an active mucosal immune response capable of blocking carcinogen absorption, the carrier protein or adjuvant should be selected to optimize the intestinal S-IgA/serum IgG ratio.
TNF-alpha participates in an IgE-mediated cutaneous reaction in mast cell deficient, WBB6F1-W/Wv mice.	The participation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in a IgE-mediated cutaneous reaction in WBB6F1-W/Wv (W/Wv), mast cell deficient, mice and the effect of prednisolone on this cutaneous reaction were investigated. Mice were passively sensitized by an intravenous injection of monoclonal anti-dinitrophenol (DNP) IgE, and their ears challenged epicutaneously with dinitrofluorobenzene 24 h later. The cutaneous reaction estimated by ear thickness reached a peak 48-72 h after the antigen challenge. A monoclonal anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha antibody inhibited the IgE-mediated cutaneous reaction. An increase of TNF-alpha mRNA was demonstrated 4 h after the application of antigen by the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The injection of recombinant murine TNF-alpha induced a cutaneous reaction which peaked at 24 h in nonsensitized mice. Prednisolone at doses of 3 to 10 mg/kg clearly inhibited the IgE-mediated cutaneous reaction, however, it did not affect the expression of TNF-alpha-mRNA. Prednisolone at doses of 1 to 10 mg/kg clearly inhibited the TNF-alpha-induced cutaneous reaction. These results suggest that TNF-alpha plays a role in the IgE-mediated cutaneous reaction in W/Wv mice and that prednisolone inhibits the cutaneous reaction at least in part by inhibiting the action of TNF-alpha.
Rederivation of mice by means of in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer.	In vitro fertilization and embryo transfer were performed for rederivation of four strains of mice harbouring mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) and/or Pasteurella pneumotropica (P. pneumotropica). Superovulated oocytes were fertilized by preincubated cauda epididymis sperm in vitro. Fertilized eggs at 2-cell stage were transferred into the oviducts of specific pathogen free (SPF) recipients. Microbial examination of sperm and/or oocyte donors verified the presence of P. pneumotropica and/or of antibodies to MHV in all strains, but neither in the recipients nor in the offspring antibodies to MHV could they be detected. The results indicate that an in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) system is an effective and simple alternative to cesarean operation in infected mice.
Role of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in mouse hepatitis virus infection in mice.	Viral growth and histopathological changes in the liver after intraperitoneal infection with mouse hepatitis virus, strain JHM were compared among normal C57BL/6 mice, those depleted of CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells and both T cell subsets. Viral growth in mice depleted of CD4+ T cells increased slightly, but pathological changes resembled those in normal mice. In contrast, the hepatitis was exacerbated in mice depleted of CD8+ T cells and those depleted of both T cell subsets. These results suggest that CD8+ T cells play a key role although both T cell subsets are involved in protection against mouse hepatitis virus infection in mice.
Immunosuppressive activity of streptonigrin in vitro and in vivo.	The immune system is composed of various cells with distinct functions. Thus, highly selective immunomodulators are necessary for artificial regulation of immune reactions. We screened microbial products for such immunomodulators and we identified streptonigrin as a selective suppressor of B-cell proliferation induced by lipopolysaccharide. Streptonigrin directly suppressed the late phase of proliferation of B-cells. The inhibition of topoisomerase II was implicated as the mechanism of the B-cell-selective suppression. In cultured cell lines, however, streptonigrin preferentially suppressed the growth of an interleukin-3-dependent myeloid cell line rather than B-cell lines. In addition, the treatment with streptonigrin in vivo suppressed T-cells more significantly than B-cells and dramatically reduced the spleen weight. These results suggest that streptonigrin preferentially suppresses myeloid T-cell precursors in vivo.
Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan)-induced hematologic alterations in specific-pathogen-free chickens.	Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) was given at 75 mg/kg body weight via daily intramuscular injections for 4 days to 3-week-old specific-pathogen-free (SPF) chickens in an attempt to determine if heteropenia could be induced in chickens. Control birds were given a like quantity of phosphate-buffered saline, the diluent for Cytoxan. Peripheral blood heterophil numbers were determined and monitored by total leukocyte and differential cell counts. Birds were grouped in pairs on day 0 based on total leukocyte count. The number of heterophils each bird had on day 0 served as a baseline heterophil count for that bird. Thereafter heterophil numbers were determined on the last day of drug treatment and every other day until blood heterophil numbers were 20% of that bird's baseline heterophil count (heteropenia). The effects of Cytoxan on trachea, lung, liver, kidney, bursa of Fabricius, bone marrow, spleen, and thymus were determined by microscopic examination of those tissues collected the day following heteropenia. Cytoxan had no effect on trachea, lung, liver, kidney, and thymus. Bursa of Fabricius and spleen had decreased amounts of lymphoid aggregates. Bone marrow of Cytoxan-treated chickens was hypocellular. The study was then repeated to determine the reversibility of Cytoxan-induced heteropenia. Cytoxan-treated birds were allowed to recover until blood heterophil numbers equaled or exceeded those of control birds. Cytoxan, through bone marrow suppression, induced a reversible heteropenia that developed between treatment days 10 and 12. In addition, Cytoxan induced a reversible lymphocytopenia between days 4 and 10 and a regenerative anemia between days 8 and 10. The ability to produce heteropenia in SPF chickens will allow the use of a heteropenic model for further study of the heterophil's contribution to the inflammatory response.
Efficacy of a recombinant fowl pox-based Newcastle disease virus vaccine candidate against velogenic and respiratory challenge.	A fowl pox-based recombinant virus TROVAC-NDV (vFP96.5) was developed expressing the fusion and hemagglutinin-neuraminidase glycoproteins from a velogenic strain of Newcastle disease virus (NDV). Studies in specific-pathogen-free birds indicated that inoculation of a single dose of the recombinant led to the induction of significant levels of hemagglutination-inhibiting antibody that were maintained to 8 wk postinoculation. Further, the recombinant induced protective immunity against a combined intramuscular velogenic NDV challenge and respiratory NDV challenge. In commercial broiler chickens that were inoculated in the presence of maternally derived NDV immunity, the level of the NDV-specific humoral response was dampened, but significant levels of protection against both a lethal intramuscular NDV challenge and a fowl poxvirus challenge were obtained.
Epidermal growth factor-like molecular species in normal bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.	Normal bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) contains mitogenic activity for fibroblasts and type 2 pneumocytes. A number of growth factors that might contribute to this activity have been identified in BALF. We found that a molecule or molecules able to bind to epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors on mouse lung fibroblasts were present in normal mouse BALF and could be blocked by an antiserum to mouse EGF. Receptor binding was partially blocked by preincubation with heparin, indicating a relationship to the heparin-binding subgroup of EGF-like growth factors. Heparin markedly enhanced the mitogenic activity of BALF for fibroblasts, but we were unable to establish whether the EGF-like molecule contributed to this activity. Immunoblotting using the anti-EGF serum identified a protein of M(r) 88,000 in concentrated BALF. The cellular source and physiological role of this growth factor merit further investigation.
The immunomodulatory effect of the soluble fungal glucan (Pleurotus ostreatus) on delayed hypersensitivity and phagocytic ability of blood leucocytes in mice.	The effect of fungal and yeast glucan on different immune functions in mice was examined and compared. The simultaneous administration of glucan and a sensitizing dose of DNFB on the different sites significantly stimulated delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response only when using fungal glucan. Both glucans tested, when administered before sensitization, significantly increased DTH response, but with a significantly higher level at the beginning of the investigation (on day 7) when using fungal glucan. The increase in phagocytic activity by the blood leucocytes started in the 1st week after fungal-glucan treatment, and in the 2nd week after yeast-glucan treatment, and took longer after administration of fungal glucan. The values of the phagocytic-activity index were significantly influenced only after fungal-glucan injection. The results of the study indicate that fungal glucan isolated from Pleurotus ostreatus could be a prospective immunomodulating substance.
The influence of dietary sugars and starch on the establishment of Streptococcus mutans and Actinomyces viscosus in dental plaque of specific pathogen-free rats.	The establishment of S. mutans together with A. viscosus was investigated in dental plaque of specific pathogen-free (SPF) rats fed different carbohydrate diets. Two Tanzanian S.mutans strains MM3 and MM24 and one Tanzanian A. viscosus strain MM13 were used for this purpose. The basic diet consisting of 32% skim-milk, 7% yeast extract and 1% soy bean oil was supplemented with either 10% lactose and 50% corn flour, or 10% glucose and 50% corn flour, or 60% amylum or 60% wheat flour. S. mutans and A. viscosus were enumerated twenty days after inoculation. S. mutans counts were high irrespective of the dietary regime. A. viscosus counts in the glucose, lactose and amylum groups were of the same magnitude and significantly higher than those of the wheat flour group. The hypothesis that the establishment of S. mutans in sucrose free diets could be facilitated by the extracellular polysaccharides produced by A. viscosus was not supported by the present data. The finding that S. mutans can establish in high number in dental plaque of SPF rats in the absence of sucrose corroborates previous reports indicating high S. mutans counts in African populations with a low sucrose intake.
Nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mouse as a model system to study the engraftment and mobilization of human peripheral blood stem cells.	Mobilized CD34(+) cells from human peripheral blood (PB) are increasingly used for hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation. However, the mechanisms involved in the mobilization of human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells are largely unknown. To study the mobilization of human progenitor cells in an experimental animal model in response to different treatment regimens, we injected intravenously a total of 92 immunodeficient nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice with various numbers of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) -mobilized CD34(+) PB cells (ranging from 2 to 50 x 10(6) cells per animal). Engraftment of human cells was detectable for up to 6.5 months after transplantation and, depending on the number of cells injected, reached as high as 96% in the bone marrow (BM), displaying an organ-specific maturation pattern of T- and B-lymphoid and myeloid cells. Among the different mobilization regimens tested, human clonogenic cells could be mobilized from the BM into the PB (P = .019) with a high or low dose of human G-CSF, alone or in combination with human stem-cell factor (SCF), with an average increase of 4.6-fold over control. Therefore, xenotransplantation of human cells in NOD/SCID mice will provide a basis to further study the mechanisms of mobilization and the biology of the mobilized primitive human hematopoietic cell.
The inhibitory effect of vitamin E on 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone-induced DNA injury and the fixation of the DNA injury in mouse lungs.	In order to estimate the effect of vitamin E on DNA injury and K-ras point mutation at an early stage of 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone(NNK)-induced lung tumorigenesis in mice, the present study was carried out. Presupplement with vitamin E about 15 times more than control for a week significantly inhibited NNK-induced O6-methylguanine formation in the lungs of mice at 4 and 168 h after the injection. At 30 days after the NNK injection. the activation of K-ras oncogene with a 12th codon GC-->AT transition was detected in 56% of lung samples tested by mutant-allele-specific amplification. Vitamin E supplement reduced the frequency of the mutation to 30%. These results suggest that vitamin E suppresses NNK-induced DNA injury and subsequent fixation of the injury during the initiation and post-initiation phases of the lung tumorigenesis in mice.
Whole-egg diet delays the age-related impaired glucose tolerance of BHE/Cdb rats.	The effects of dietary egg on the age-related progression of impaired glucose tolerance and glomerulonephropathy in diabetes-prone BHE/Cdb rats were studied. This rat strain mimics the human with NIDDM. The development of impaired glucose tolerance was delayed in rats fed the whole-egg diet, however, feeding this diet resulted in elevated hepatic weight but had no effect on the age-related changes in renal lesions or renal function. We conclude that in this animal model for NIDDM, the development of glomerulonephropathy is independent of the development of impaired glucose tolerance and that diet can affect the time course for impaired glucose tolerance without affecting renal disease development.
Optic nerve dysplasia associated with meningeal defect in Sprague-Dawley rats.	Unilateral and bilateral dysplasias of the optic nerve (ON) were observed in 20/114 male and 14/110 female Sprague-Dawley rats at 12 weeks of age. Grossly, the intracranial segment of the affected ON had nodular thickening, bifurcation, and curvature. Nodular thickenings were seen in 20 males and 11 females. One female had a bifurcated ON. Curvature was observed in the left ONs of two females. Of 34 ON dysplasias, 12 ONs tapered off into a thin filament at the portion anterior to the dysplastic lesions. The intraorbital segments of the ONs in 33 rats were also reduced in size and were hardly recognizable in the meningeal sheath in 10 rats. Both eyeballs appeared normal in all the animals examined. Histologically, nerve fibers in intracranial and intraorbital segments of the ONs that appeared as slender filaments were markedly reduced in number. Nerve fibers in nodular thickenings were intertwined in haphazard fashion, forming scrollworklike structures. The meningeal sheaths in intracranial segments of the ONs in 15 rats and in intraorbital segments in eight rats were partially missing. The naked portion of the ON protruded into the meningeal spaces or gaps. The data indicate that developmental failures in the ON may have been induced due to insufficient blood supply through the meningeal covering or herniation of growing nerve fibers into the defective meninges. However, etiology and pathogenesis of this condition remain unclear.
Glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of dendritic cells in the rat tracheal mucosa.	Dendritic cells are antigen-presenting cells that constitutively express high levels of major histocompatibility complex class II (Ia) antigen on their plasma membrane. Previous studies have shown that the number of dendritic cells in the rat airway mucosa decreases rapidly after glucocorticoid treatment. We sought to determine whether apoptosis contributes to this steroid-induced cell decrease. Dendritic cells in tracheal whole mounts were revealed by immunoperoxidase staining using the OX-6 (anti-Ia) monoclonal antibody. In untreated rats, a dense network of Ia-immunoreactive (Ia+) cells with highly branched cytoplasmic processes was observed just beneath the tracheal epithelium (1,405 +/- 140 cells/mm2 mucosa; mean +/- SEM, n = 6). In rats treated with dexamethasone (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), four distinct changes in dendritic cell morphology were evident 4 to 8 h after injection: (1) appearance of large Ia+ granules in cytoplasmic processes, (2) narrowing of cytoplasmic processes, (3) loss of Ia immunoreactivity from the cell surface, and (4) fragmentation of cells into small Ia+ bodies. These changes accompanied a 56% decrease in the number of Ia+ cells over 8 h. The contribution of apoptosis to this decrease in Ia+ cells was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) of nucleosomal DNA fragments in histologic sections. The number of TUNEL+ bodies increased from a control value of 174 +/- 47 bodies/mm2 mucosa to 2,108 +/- 294 bodies/mm2 mucosa at 4 h and 936 +/- 343 bodies/ mm2 mucosa at 8 h (n = 4 rats per time point). The location of TUNEL+ bodies closely corresponded to that of Ia+ cells stained in adjacent histologic sections. We conclude that apoptosis contributes to the rapid decrease in airway dendritic cells after glucocorticoid treatment.
Allergen immunotherapy inhibits airway eosinophilia and hyperresponsiveness associated with decreased IL-4 production by lymphocytes in a murine model of allergic asthma.	In the present study, we investigated whether allergen immunotherapy is effective in a murine model with immunologic and pathophysiologic features reminiscent of allergic asthma. Ovalbumin-sensitized mice received increasing (1 microgram to 1 mg) subcutaneous doses of ovalbumin twice a week for 8 wk according to a semirush immunotherapy protocol as used in allergic patients. During immunotherapy, an initial rise in serum levels of ovalbumin-specific antibodies (immunoglobulin [Ig]G1, IgE, IgG2a) occurred, after which IgE levels decreased sharply concomitant with an increase in IgG2a levels. The increase in IgG2a levels, with the decline in IgE levels, suggests that during immunotherapy interferon-gamma production is increased or interleukin (IL)-4 production is decreased. After immunotherapy, inhalation challenge of the mice with ovalbumin revealed almost complete inhibition (98%, P < 0.01) of eosinophil infiltration into bronchoalveolar lavage and airway hyperresponsiveness (100% at 320 microgram/kg methacholine, P < 0.05) compared with sham-treated animals. In addition, IL-4 production of thoracic lymph node cells stimulated with ovalbumin in vitro was largely reduced (60%, P < 0.05) after immunotherapy. Thus, effective immunotherapy in this animal model appears to be due to modulation of antigen-specific T cells. Similar effects on airway symptoms and IL-4 production can be obtained within 1 wk by three injections of the highest dose of ovalbumin (1 mg). This animal model will be used as a preclinical model to improve allergen immunotherapy and to gain more insight into the mechanisms involved.
Colonization ability and pathogenic properties of a fim- mutant of an avian strain of Escherichia coli.	Several studies suggest that the expression of type 1 fimbriae is involved in the virulence of Escherichia coli in chickens, by promoting adhesion of bacteria to the respiratory tract, which is most probably the first step to occur in the infection, and by interacting with the immune response. In order to determine to what extent type 1 fimbriae were involved in the pathogenic process, the fim cluster of an avian pathogenic strain of E. coli, MT78 (O2:K1:H+), was modified in vitro and reintroduced in the parent strain via allele exchange using suicide vector pCVD442. The mutant strain thus generated (DM34) had its entire fim cluster removed. Its pathogenic properties were compared to those of the parent strain in an experimental reproduction of avain colibacillosis in 15-day-old chickens, after primary infection with infectious bronchitis virus followed by intratracheal inoculation of the challenge strain. In specific-pathogen-free (SPF) animals, mutant DM34 was less pathogenic than the parent strain and colonized the lungs of infected animals to a lower level. In germ-free chickens, although DM34 was less pathogenic than MT78 according to the differences in weight gains, it colonized the trachea, lungs and internal organs to the same extent as MT78. Our results suggest that, whereas type 1 fimbriae are not strictly required in colonization of the respiratory tract of germ-free chickens, they might be important in establishing a bacterial population in the lungs of SPF animals. The difference regularly observed in weight gains between mutant- and wild-type-inoculated chickens reflects a decreased pathogenicity of the fim- mutant. However, the isolation of E. coli in target organs and the observation of colibacillosis symptoms and lesions in mutant-inoculated chickens suggest that type 1 fimbriae by themselves play a limited role in pathogenicity.
Restriction fragment length polymorphism and virulence of Czech Toxoplasma gondii strains.	Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of chromosomal DNA from 22 strains of Toxoplasma gondii were characterised using SalI and PstI restriction endonucleases and the TGR1E specific repetitive sequence as a probe. Two virulent strains, RH and P-CZ, had previously been isolated from humans, the remaining 20 strains were isolated from animals in the Czech Republic in 1994 and 1995. Among the 20 recently isolated strains, 19 belonged to an avirulent lineage and only one strain from the wild cat Felis silvestris belonged to a virulent lineage.
Infection of sheep with adult and larval Ostertagia circumcincta: abomasal morphology.	The infection of parasite-naive sheep with approximately 15,000 adult Ostertagia circumcincta via abomasal cannulae resulted in marked changes in the structure and function of the abomasum. The functional changes, which have been characterised previously, included elevated abomasal pH and increased serum concentrations of pepsinogen and gastrin. Eight days after the transplant of adult worms, the abomasa of recipient animals were significantly heavier than those of controls (P < 0.001), the thickness of the fundic mucosa was greater (P < 0.01), there were fewer parietal cells (P < 0.01) and increases in the numbers of mitotic figures and mucus-producing cells. Mucous cell hyperplasia was also evident in the fundic mucosae of sheep receiving a trickle infection of infective, third-stage O. circumcincta larvae and was prominent within nodules associated with larval development. In non-nodular mucosa, there was hyperplasia of mucous cells and changes in the distribution of parietal cells. Decreases in the number of parietal cells at the gland base were offset by increases at a mid-gland level, probably due to chronic hypergastrinaemia, so that, overall, total parietal cell number was unaffected. Mucous cell hyperplasia and the diminution of parietal cell number are seen in a diverse range of disease states and may be mediated by host growth factors such as Transforming growth factor-alpha. Alternatively, the cellular and/or the secretory changes in response to the presence of adult worms are mediated by chemicals that are cytotoxic/inhibitory for parietal cells, and released by the parasites themselves.
Detection of Toxoplasma gondii in tissues of sheep orally challenged with different doses of oocysts.	The presence of Toxoplasma gondii in blood, brain, cardiac muscle and skeletal muscle (gracillis and psoas) of sheep 6 weeks after experimental infection with 10(5), 10(4) and 10(3) T. gondii oocysts was determined using the PCR technique. The study demonstrates that oral infection of sheep with T. gondii oocysts of the M3 isolate results in parasites being detectable in tissues 6 weeks p.i. The PCR detection was much more sensitive than histological detection. Parasite DNA was detected more frequently and consistently in the group of sheep given 10(5) oocysts compared with those given 10(3) oocysts. The brain and heart were most frequently infected compared with the other tissues.
Bone marrow cellular composition in Listeria monocytogenes infected mice detected using ER-MP12 and ER-MP20 antibodies: a flow cytometric alternative to differential counting.	Detailed assessment of bone marrow cellular composition is essential in the evaluation of various experimental in vivo systems, such as expression of transgenes, null mutations and stimulation of host defence in infection. Traditional morphological analysis of mouse bone marrow is laborious, requires specific cytological expertise, and is somewhat subjective. As an alternative, we have examined whether double labelling of bone marrow with the anti-precursor monoclonal antibodies ER-MP12 and ER-MP20 could be used for differential analysis by flow cytometry, as these antibodies define six relatively homogeneous cell populations in mouse bone marrow. Following a sublethal infection of mice with Listeria monocytogenes, we monitored changes in cellular composition of the bone marrow at various time points in three ways: differential morphological count; single-color flow cytometric analysis using markers for the myeloid, erythroid and lymphoid lineages; and double labelling with ER-MP12 and ER-MP20. As expected, the bone marrow composition changed dramatically during infection, leading to an increase of myeloid cells which peaked after 1 week of infection. Data determined by ER-MP12/20 flow cytometric analysis appeared to be in close agreement with both morphology and lineage marker analysis. In addition, ER-MP12/20 analysis provided more detailed information with regards to the presence of early myeloid precursors compared to lineage marker analysis. These data show that flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow using ER-MP12 and ER-MP20 monoclonal antibodies provides a relatively simple, rapid and objective assay when evaluating cellular composition in the bone marrow of the mouse.
Comparison of detection techniques for cytokine reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction; digoxigenin-labeled polymerase chain reaction permits sensitive detection of cytokine mRNA in rat heart allografts.	The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a sensitive method for the analysis of cytokine mRNA expression. The amount of specific mRNA in tissues involved in an inflammatory immune response can be low and therefore requires highly sensitive detection of the PCR products. In our study we have compared different detection techniques in order to replace the commonly used detection by means of radiolabeled probes. Besides the detection of DNA in agarose gels by ethidium bromide (EB), we used detection by digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled probes, as well as the direct incorporation of DIG-labeled nucleotides in the PCR, in comparison to detection by means of 32P-labeled probes. In vitro activated rat lymph node cells, lymph node tissue, and acutely or chronically rejected rat heart allografts were examined for expression of mRNA of the cytokines IL-2 and IFNgamma. The directly DIG-labeled PCR appeared to be the best alternative for detection of PCR products by means of radiolabeled probes. While IL-2 mRNA was not detected by means of EB and IFNgamma mRNA was only detected at the highest PCR cycle numbers in acutely and chronically rejected rat heart allografts, both cytokine mRNA's were readily detected by directly DIG-labeled PCR.
Angiogenesis in mice with chronic airway inflammation: strain-dependent differences.	Chronic inflammation is associated with blood vessel proliferation and enlargement and changes in vessel phenotype. We sought to determine whether these changes represent different types of angiogenesis and whether they are stimulus dependent. Chronic airway inflammation, produced by infection with Mycoplasma pulmonis, was compared in strains of mice known to be resistant (C57BL/6) or susceptible (C3H). Tracheal vascularity, assessed in whole mounts after Lycopersicon esculentum lectin staining, increased in both strains at 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks after infection, but the type of vascular remodeling was different. The number of vessels doubled in tracheas of C57BL/6 mice, with corresponding increases of capillaries and venules. In contrast, neither the number nor the length of vessels changed in C3H mice. Instead, vessel diameter and endothelial cell number doubled, and the proportion of venules doubled with a corresponding decrease of capillaries. Although the infection had no effect on baseline plasma leakage, in both strains it potentiated the leakage produced by substance P. We conclude that the same stimulus can result in blood vessel proliferation or enlargement, depending on the host response. Endothelial cells proliferate in both cases, but in one case new capillaries form whereas in the other capillaries convert to venules.
Anti-DNA IgA autoantibodies are spontaneously generated in mouse Peyer's patches.	IgA antibodies in the mucosal immune system are produced specifically to environmental antigens such as virus and bacteria, and possibly to some food components, which will provide a potential luminal antigen, DNA. To study the immune response to DNA in the gut, we established B-cell hybridomas producing IgA monoclonal antibodies (mAb) from Peyer's patches (PP) of non-immunized, non-autoimmune, specific pathogen-free BALB/c mice, and examined their specificity by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Three mAb out of 18 bound strongly to self, bacterial and synthetic DNA, with Kd of about 10-7 m. One of the three mAb also reacted with the histone component and another reacted with some mouse food component. The VH genes of these three mAb have not previously been reported to have anti-DNA specificity, and carry putative somatically mutated sites favouring DNA binding in CDR. The features resemble those of anti-DNA antibodies found in human and murine models of systemic lupus erythmatosus (SLE), and are indicative of an antigen-driven selection process. Our findings suggest that even in normal healthy animals, anti-DNA antibodies of IgA isotype can be produced in certain peripheral environments such as in PP by spontaneous antigenic stimulation.
Unresponsiveness of CD4-8+/- thymocytes to lectin stimulation in LEC mutant rats.	A mutant strain of rat, LEC, shows a novel arrest of T-cell maturation from CD4+8+ to CD4+8-, but not to CD4-8+ cells in the thymus. The responsible mutant locus is designated the thid, which was acted upon in a recessive manner of inheritance. We found that LEC rat thymocytes failed to respond to interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6 and IL-7 in the presence of the mitogenic lectins, Allo A or concanavalin A (Con A). The unresponsiveness appeared to be due to unresponsiveness to the lectin stimulation rather than because of cytokine stimulation. Normal rat CD4-8+/- (consisting of CD4-8+ and CD4-8- thymocytes), CD4+/-8- (consisting of CD4+8- and CD4-8- thymocytes), and CD4-8- thymocyte subsets normally responded to mitogenic stimulation, while CD4+8+ thymocytes did not. In contrast, all LEC rat CD4-8+/-, CD4+/-8-, CD4-8- and CD4-8+ thymocytes did not respond to the mitogenic stimulation, suggesting that the unresponsiveness of the CD4-8+/- thymocytes seems to be responsible for the unresponsiveness of whole thymocytes in LEC rats. LEC rat CD4-8+/- thymocytes normally expressed Con A receptor (R), lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1), and CD45, which are thought to be important molecules for lectin stimulation. When backcross rats from (F344xLEC)F1xLEC were examined, the phenotype for the thid mutation correlated with the [3H]thymidine deoxyribose (TdR) incorporation level in response to Con A stimulation; thymocytes from backcross rats showing +/thid phenotype responded to Con A stimulation normally, whereas thymocytes from backcross rats showing thid/thid phenotype showed significantly lower responsiveness compared with +/thid rats. However, in WKAH.C-thid congenic rat thymocytes that carry the thid mutation, the responsiveness to mitogenic stimulation was comparable to that of normal rat thymocytes. These results suggest that a defect in responsiveness to mitogenic stimulation in LEC rat thymocytes is controlled by multiple genetic loci and the thid locus is one of the important loci for the development of this abnormal phenotype.
GM-CSF receptor targeted treatment of primary AML in SCID mice using Diphtheria toxin fused to huGM-CSF.	The severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mouse model may be used to evaluate new approaches for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We have previously demonstrated the killing of SCID mouse leukemia initiating cells by in vitro incubation with human GM-CSF fused to Diphtheria toxin (DT-huGM-CSF). In this report, we show that in vivo treatment with DT-huGM-CSF eliminates AML growth in SCID mice. Seven cases of AML were studied. SCID mice were treated intraperitoneally with the maximally tolerated dose of 75 microg/kg/day for 7 days. Antileukemic efficacy was determined at days 40 and 80 after transplantation, by enumerating the percentages of human cells in SCID bone marrow using flow cytometry and short tandem repeat polymerase chain reaction (STR-PCR) analysis. Four out of seven AML cases were sensitive to in vivo treatment with DT-huGM-CSF at both evaluation time points. In three of these cases, elimination of human cells was demonstrated by flow cytometry and STR-PCR. One AML case showed moderate sensitivity for DT-huGM-CSF, and growth of the two remaining AML cases was not influenced by DT-huGM-CSF. Sensitivity was correlated with GM-CSFR expression. Our data show that DT-huGM-CSF can be used in vivo to reduce growth of AML and warrant further development of DT-huGM-CSF for the treatment of human AML.
Xenotransplantation of human lymphoid malignancies is optimized in mice with multiple immunologic defects.	While it is known that mice with genetic immune defects are useful for establishing durable engraftment of human tumor xenografts, the relative role of components of host innate and adoptive immunity in engraftment has not been determined. We directly compared the ability of four strains of genetically immunodeficient mice (NOD/SCID, SCID, Nude and Rag-1-deficient) to successfully engraft and support the human cell lines Daudi, Raji, Namalwa and Molt-4 as subcutaneous tumors. We additionally examined the effect of further immunosuppression of the mice by whole body irradiation at a dose of 600 cGy for Nude and Rag-1 and 300 cGy for SCID mice and by administration of anti-natural killer (asialo-GM1) antibody on tumor growth. Mice with each of the defects supported xenografts to varying degrees. We found differences in growth characteristics in the cell lines tested, with Namalwa consistently producing the largest tumors. With all cell lines studied, optimal growth was achieved using NOD/SCID mice. Overall, tumor growth was somewhat enhanced by pretreatment with radiation with little additional benefit from the addition of anti-asialo-GM1 antibody. The importance of multiple components of the innate and adoptive immune system in xenotransplantation were best demonstrated when results in untreated NOD/SCID mice were compared to SCID, nude and RAG-1-deficient mice. The NOD/SCID mouse with or without additional immunosuppression provides the optimal model for the study of the biology and treatment of human leukemias and lymphomas.
Interleukin-10 suppresses IP-10 gene transcription by inhibiting the production of class I interferon.	Interleukin-10 (IL-10) selectively inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chemoattractant cytokine gene expression: levels of IP-10 mRNA were markedly suppressed in IL-10-treated mouse peritoneal macrophages, whereas the expression of the RANTES mRNA was only modestly reduced. IL-10 inhibited IP-10 mRNA accumulation by reducing IP-10 gene transcription as demonstrated by nuclear run-on analysis. Interestingly, the ability of IL-10 to inhibit expression of IP-10 was dependent on the inducing stimulus; IL-10 did not suppress interferon gamma (IFNgamma)- or IFNbeta-stimulated IP-10 transcription or mRNA accumulation. These results suggested that IL-10 might act indirectly to suppress IP-10 expression by inhibiting LPS-induced class I IFN production. This hypothesis was supported by the following observations. First, LPS-induced IP-10 mRNA expression was blocked in cells cotreated with cycloheximide. Second, IL-10 inhibited the production of IFN/beta-mediated antiviral activity. Finally, the IL-10-mediated suppression of LPS-stimulated IP-10 production could be rescued by cotreatment with IFNbeta.
Collagen deposition in a non-fibrotic lung granuloma model after nitric oxide inhibition.	Recent studies support the concept that pulmonary granulomatous inflammation directed by interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-12, and nitric oxide usually resolves in the absence of fibrosis. To determine whether nitric oxide participates in modulating the fibrotic response during the development of pulmonary granulomas in response to purified protein derivative (PPD), mice presensitized to PPD received daily intraperitoneal injections of N(G)-nitro-D-arginine-methyl ester (D-NAME), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME), or aminoguanidine after delivery of PPD-coated beads to the lungs. Eight days later, morphometric analysis of lung granulomas revealed that L-NAME-treated mice when challenged with PPD in vitro for 36 hours had the largest pulmonary granulomas and the greatest collagen deposition among the treated groups. In addition, equivalent numbers of dispersed lung cells from L-NAME- and aminoguanidine-treated mice produced significantly higher levels of IL-4, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha and significantly lower levels of eotaxin compared with D-NAME-treated mice. Cultures of dispersed lung cells from L-NAME-treated mice also produced significantly more IL-10 and less IL-12 compared with similar numbers of dispersed lung cells from D-NAME-treated mice. Cultures of isolated lung fibroblasts from L-NAME-treated mice expressed higher levels of C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) and CCR3 mRNA and contained less MCP-1 and eotaxin protein than a similar number of fibroblasts from D-NAME-treated mice. Thus, nitric oxide appears to regulate the deposition of extracellular matrix in lung granulomas through the modulation of the cytokine and chemokine profile of these lesions. Alterations in the cytokine, chemokine, and procollagen profile of this lesion may be a direct effect of nitric oxide on the pulmonary fibroblast and provide an important signal for regulating fibroblast activity during the evolution of chronic lung disease.
Acute effects of inhaled urban particles and ozone: lung morphology, macrophage activity, and plasma endothelin-1.	We studied acute responses of rat lungs to inhalation of urban particulate matter and ozone. Exposure to particles (40 mg/m3 for 4 hours; mass median aerodynamic diameter, 4 to 5 microm; Ottawa urban dust, EHC-93), followed by 20 hours in clean air, did not result in acute lung injury. Nevertheless, inhalation of particles resulted in decreased production of nitric oxide (nitrite) and elevated secretion of macrophage inflammatory protein-2 from lung lavage cells. Inhalation of ozone (0.8 parts per million for 4 hours) resulted in increased neutrophils and protein in lung lavage fluid. Ozone alone also decreased phagocytosis and nitric oxide production and stimulated endothelin-1 secretion by lung lavage cells but did not modify secretion of macrophage inflammatory protein-2. Co-exposure to particles potentiated the ozone-induced septal cellularity in the central acinus but without measurable exacerbation of the ozone-related alveolar neutrophilia and permeability to protein detected by lung lavage. The enhanced septal thickening was associated with elevated production of both macrophage inflammatory protein-2 and endothelin-1 by lung lavage cells. Interestingly, inhalation of urban particulate matter increased the plasma levels of endothelin-1, but this response was not influenced by the synergistic effects of ozone and particles on centriacinar septal tissue changes. This suggests an impact of the distally distributed particulate dose on capillary endothelial production or filtration of the vasoconstrictor. Overall, equivalent patterns of effects were observed after a single exposure or three consecutive daily exposures to the pollutants. The experimental data are consistent with epidemiological evidence for acute pulmonary effects of ozone and respirable particulate matter and suggest a possible mechanism whereby cardiovascular effects may be induced by particle exposure. In a broad sense, acute biological effects of respirable particulate matter from ambient air appear related to paracrine/endocrine disruption mechanisms.
Intestinal and hepatic cell kinetics and mucous changes in vitamin-A-deficient rats.	Changes in tissue histopathology, cell morphology and kinetics and the number of mucus secreting cells were evaluated in the duodenum and colon of normal and vitamin-A-deficient rats. A lower number of goblet cells was detected both in the colon and in the duodenum of vitamin-A-deficient rats in comparison with control rats (p<0.05). vitamin-A deficiency was found to increase the proliferate rate of mucous cells in the duodenum significantly. No significant difference was noted in the proliferate index in the colon specimens in either control group of experimental rats. We suggest that the higher number of proliferating cells in the duodenal crypt and villi in the vitamin-A-deficient animals indicates that vitamin-A deficiency affects the cell proliferation and therefore could be of some importance in understanding the potency of retinoids in differentiation and their association with formation of epithelial metaplasia.
Interleukin-10 stimulation of corticotrophin releasing factor median eminence in rats: evidence for dependence upon nitric oxide production.	Following treatment with interleukin-10 (IL-10), basal corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF) levels from rat hypothalamic median eminence (ME) were found to be increased. Our data show: (1) the specificity of stimulation of CRF through the use of recombinant IL-10 and its blockage by monoclonal anti-IL-10 antibody; (2) the requirement of NO in this process through the use of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor; (3) the blockage of IL-10 stimulated NO production by anti-IL-10; and, (4) the presence of IL-10 transcripts in hypothalamic poly A+ mRNA. These results provide the first evidence of IL-10 acting in the ME to influence CRF levels and further support our earlier findings of a potential for IL-10 in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis.
Histomorphometric, physical, and mechanical effects of spaceflight and insulin-like growth factor-I on rat long bones.	Previous experiments have shown that skeletal unloading resulting from exposure to microgravity induces osteopenia in rats. In maturing rats, this is primarily a function of reduced formation, rather than increased resorption. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) stimulates bone formation by increasing collagen synthesis by osteoblasts. The ability of IGF-I to prevent osteopenia otherwise caused by spaceflight was investigated in 12 rats flown for 10 days aboard the Space Shuttle, STS-77. The effect IGF-I had on cortical bone metabolism was generally anabolic. For example, humerus periosteal bone formation increased a significant 37.6% for the spaceflight animals treated with IGF-I, whereas the ground controls increased 24.7%. This increase in humeral bone formation at the periosteum is a result of an increased percent mineralizing perimeter (%Min.Pm), rather than mineral apposition rate (MAR), for both spaceflight and ground control rats. However, IGF-I did inhibit humerus endocortical bone formation in both the spaceflight and ground control rats (38.1% and 39.2%, respectively) by limiting MAR. This effect was verified in a separate ground-based study. Similar histomorphometric results for spaceflight and ground control rats suggest that IGF-I effects occur during normal weight bearing and during spaceflight. Microhardness measurements of the newly formed bone indicate that the quality of the bone formed during IGF-I treatment or spaceflight was not adversely altered. Spaceflight did not consistently change the structural (force-deflection) properties of the femur or humerus when tested in three-point bending. IGF-I significantly increased femoral maximum and fracture strength.
Analysis of the role of variation of major histocompatibility complex class II expression on nonobese diabetic (NOD) peripheral T cell response.	The current paradigm of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and disease association suggests that efficient binding of autoantigens by disease-associated MHC molecules leads to a T cell-mediated immune response and resultant autoimmune sequelae. The data presented below offer a different model for this association of MHC with autoimmune diabetes. We used several mouse lines expressing different levels of I-Ag7 and I-Ak on the nonobese diabetic (NOD) background to evaluate the role of MHC class II in the previously described NOD T cell autoproliferation. The ratio of I-Ag7 to I-Ak expression correlated with the peripheral T cell autoproliferative phenotype in the mice studied. T cells from the NOD, [NOD x NOD. I-Anull]F1, and NOD I-Ak transgenic mice demonstrated autoproliferative responses (after priming with self-peptides), whereas the NOD.H2(h4) (containing I-Ak) congenic and [NOD x NOD. H2(h4) congenic]F1 mice did not. Analysis of CD4(+) NOD I-Ak transgenic primed lymph node cells showed that autoreactive CD4(+) T cells in the NOD I-Ak transgenic mice were restricted exclusively by I-Ag7. Considered in the context of the avidity theory of T cell activation and selection, the reported poor peptide binding capacity of NOD I-Ag7 suggested a new hypothesis to explain the effects of MHC class II expression on the peripheral autoimmune repertoire in NOD mice. This new explanation suggests that the association of MHC with diabetes results from "altered" thymic selection in which high affinity self-reactive (potentially autoreactive) T cells escape negative selection. This model offers an explanation for the requirement of homozygous MHC class II expression in NOD mice (and in humans) in susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
Immunization of mice with urease vaccine affords protection against Helicobacter pylori infection in the absence of antibodies and is mediated by MHC class II-restricted responses.	We examined the roles of cell- and antibody-mediated immunity in urease vaccine-induced protection against Helicobacter pylori infection. Normal and knockout mice deficient in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, MHC class II, or B cell responses were mucosally immunized with urease plus Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LT), or parenterally immunized with urease plus aluminum hydroxide or a glycolipid adjuvant, challenged with H. pylori strain X47-2AL, and H. pylori organisms and leukocyte infiltration in the gastric mucosa quantified. In an adjuvant/route study in normal mice, there was a direct correlation between the level of protection and the density of T cells recruited to the gastric mucosa. In knockout studies, oral immunization with urease plus LT protected MHC class I knockout mice [beta2-microglobulin (-/-)] but not MHC class II knockout mice [I-Ab (-/-)]. In B cell knockout mice [microMT (-/-)], vaccine-induced protection was equivalent to that observed in immunized wild-type (+/+) mice; no IgA+ cells were detected in the stomach, but levels of CD4(+) cells equivalent to those in the wild-type strain (+/+) were seen. These studies indicate that protection of mice against H. pylori infection by immunization with the urease antigen is dependent on MHC class II-restricted, cell-mediated mechanisms, and antibody responses to urease are not required for protection.
Effect of vaccination route and composition of DNA vaccine on the induction of protective immunity against pseudorabies infection in pigs.	Vaccination with naked DNA may be an alternative to conventional vaccines because it combines the efficacy of attenuated vaccines with the biological safety of inactivated vaccines. We recently showed that the vaccination with naked DNA coding for the immunorelevant glycoprotein D (gD) of pseudorabies virus (PRV) induced both antibody and cell-mediated immunity in pigs and provided protection against challenge infection. To determine whether the efficacy of the naked DNA vaccination against PRV could be improved, we compared three sets of variables. First, the efficacy of the naked DNA vaccine coding only for the immunorelevant gD was compared with a cocktail vaccine containing additional plasmids coding for two other immunorelevant glycoproteins, gB and gC. Second, the intramuscular route of vaccination was compared with the intradermal route. Third, the commonly used needle method of inoculation was compared with the needleless Pigjet injector method. Five groups of five pigs were vaccinated three times at 4-weeks intervals and challenged with the virulent NIA-3 strain of PRV 6 weeks after the last vaccination. Results showed that although the cocktail vaccine induced stronger cell-mediated immune responses than the vaccine containing only gD plasmid, both vaccines protected pigs equally well against challenge infection. Intradermal inoculation with a needle induced significantly stronger antibody and cell-mediated immune responses and better protection against challenge infection than intramuscular inoculation. Our data show that the route of administering DNA vaccines in pigs is important for an optimal induction of protective immunity.
Interferon induction in turkeys by oral administration of the imidazoquinolinamine S-28828 and modulation of the pathogenesis of Escherichia coli.	A synthetic imidazoquinolinamine, S-28828, has been shown to be an effective antiviral and antitumor agent in mammals. This immune modifier induces a number of cytokines such as interferons, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukins and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factors in mammals. We showed that when turkeys were given S-28828 orally, high serum titers of IFN were induced in a dose-dependent manner. Turkeys, once stimulated by S-28828, became refractory to IFN production by repeated stimulation. S-28828 induced spleen, bone marrow and peripheral leukocytes to produce IFN in vitro. Splenic adherent cells were the main producers of IFN after in vitro stimulation. S-28828-induced IFN was identified as type I IFN that was pH-resistant but heat-labile. We examined the effect of a high dose (100 mg kg(-1) body weight) of S-28828 on the pathogenesis of E. coli in turkeys. Treatment with S-28828 increased mortality in infected birds and impaired E. coli clearance from the liver. The enhancement of the pathogenicity of E. coli by S-28828 may have been due to the massive release of cytokines inducing a shock-like syndrome in infected turkeys.
Effect of various adjuvants on secondary immune response in chickens.	Stimulatory effects of several types of adjuvants on secondary antibody response to inactivated Newcastle disease virus (iNDV) were examined in chickens. For this purpose, animals were primed with iNDV without adjuvant resulting in a low but significant antibody response, boosted with iNDV plus adjuvant 3 weeks later, and analysed for specific antibody titres in serum 3 weeks after the booster. Water-in-mineral oil emulsion (W/O) caused significant increase in antibody titres measured in an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent (ELISA), haemagglutination inhibition (HI), and virus neutralisation (VN) assay. The adjuvants tested included three oil-in-water emulsions (i.e. mineral oil-in-water, sulpholipo(SL)-Ficoll400/squalane-in-water and sulpholipo-cyclodextrin/squalane-in-water), three negatively-charged polymers with high molecular weight (i.e. polyacrylate, polystyrenesulphonate and sulpho(S)-Ficoll400) and two surface-active agents (i.e. dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide (DDA) and Quil A). These adjuvants enhanced significantly the secondary immune response but none reached the titre obtained with W/O. Combinations of adjuvants with distinct physicochemical properties, i.e. polyacrylate and DDA revealed only slight, beneficial effects. We concluded that the various types of adjuvants tested can stimulate secondary immune responses in primed animals but that W/O is superior.
HMG CoA reductase inhibitor accelerates aging effect on diaphragm mitochondrial respiratory function in rats.	We examined effects of pravastatin on age-related changes in mitochondrial function in rats. Decline in the activity of complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain was observed in diaphragm and psoai major in rats aged 35 and 55 weeks, and that of complex IV in rats aged 55 weeks. Pravastatin accelerated significantly age-related decline in the activity of complex I of diaphragm mitochondria, though pravastatin did not show significant effect on normally observed age-associated decline in the activities of complex IV of psoai major and diaphragm mitochondria. Aging effect on mitochondrial respiratory function was not observed on heart muscle and liver in rats up to 55 weeks old, and pravastatin did not effect significantly heart and liver mitochondrial respiratory function. From these results, careful clinical examination on respiratory muscle function should be necessary in patients treated with pravastatin particularly in elderly patients.
Chemically defined projections linking the mediobasal hypothalamus and the lateral hypothalamic area.	Recent studies have identified several neuropeptide systems in the hypothalamus that are critical in the regulation of body weight. The lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) has long been considered essential in regulating food intake and body weight. Two neuropeptides, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and the orexins (ORX), are localized in the LHA and provide diffuse innervation of the neuraxis, including monosynaptic projections to the cerebral cortex and autonomic preganglionic neurons. Therefore, MCH and ORX neurons may regulate both cognitive and autonomic aspects of food intake and body weight regulation. The arcuate nucleus also is critical in the regulation of body weight, because it contains neurons that express leptin receptors, neuropeptide Y (NPY), alpha-melanin-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), and agouti-related peptide (AgRP). In this study, we examined the relationships of these peptidergic systems by using dual-label immunohistochemistry or in situ hybridization in rat, mouse, and human brains. In the normal rat, mouse, and human brain, ORX and MCH neurons make up segregated populations. In addition, we found that AgRP- and NPY-immunoreactive neurons are present in the medial division of the human arcuate nucleus, whereas alpha-MSH-immunoreactive neurons are found in the lateral arcuate nucleus. In humans, AgRP projections were widespread in the hypothalamus, but they were especially dense in the paraventricular nucleus and the perifornical area. Moreover, in both rat and human, MCH and ORX neurons receive innervation from NPY-, AgRP-, and alpha-MSH-immunoreactive fibers. Projections from populations of leptin-responsive neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamus to MCH and ORX cells in the LHA may link peripheral metabolic cues with the cortical mantle and may play a critical role in the regulation of feeding behavior and body weight.
Induction or protection from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis depends on the cytokine secretion profile of TCR peptide-specific regulatory CD4 T cells.	Autoimmune diseases can result from the breakdown of regulation and subsequent activation of self-antigenic determinant-reactive T cells. During the evolution of the autoimmune response to myelin basic protein (MBP) in B10.PL mice, several distinct T cell populations expand: the effectors mediating experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) are MBP-reactive, CD4+, and predominantly TCR Vbeta8.2+; in addition, at least two regulatory populations can be detected--one comprised of Vbeta14+ CD4 T cells, reactive to a framework region 3 determinant on the Vbeta8.2 chain, and a second that is CD8+ and reactive to another Vbeta8.2 determinant. The combined action of these two regulatory cell types controls disease-causing effectors, resulting in spontaneous recovery from disease. In this report, we reveal that the cytokine secretion pattern of TCR peptide-specific regulatory CD4 T cells can profoundly influence whether a type 1 or type 2 population predominates among MBP-specific CD4 effectors. The priming of type 1 regulatory T cells results in deviation of the Ag-specific effector T cell population in a type 2 direction and protection from disease. In contrast, induction of type 2 regulatory T cells results in exacerbation of EAE, poor recovery, and an increased frequency of type 1 effectors. Thus, the encephalitogenic potential of the MBP-reactive effector population is crucially and dominantly influenced by the cytokine secretion phenotype of regulatory CD4 T cells. These findings have important implications in understanding peripheral tolerance to self-Ags as well as in the design of TCR-based therapeutic approaches.
Differential effects of CD28 engagement and IL-12 on T cell activation by altered peptide ligands.	To futher our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the diverse effects of altered peptide ligands (APL) on T cell activation, we used a population of nonactivated spleen cells from mice that expressed a transgenic TCR specific for myelin basic protein Ac1-11 and peptide analogues that display either enhanced or decreased affinities for TCR/MHC to address the question whether APL-induced signaling through the TCR can regulate the capability of APC to activate T cells. We demonstrate that weak agonists APL are poor inducers of all aspects of the activation of both the responder T cells and the APC. Enhancement of the antigenic signal by augmenting the binding of the weak agonists to MHC reversed their defective activating capacity. Enhancement of costimulation by engagement of CD28 only resulted in augmentation of the capacity of the weak agonist APL to induce proliferation and IL-2/IL-3 production, but not CD40L or IL-12Rbeta2 chain expression on T cells, CD80/CD86 expression on APC, IL-12 secretion, or IFN-gamma production. Exogenous IL-12 promoted IFN-gamma production in the presence of the weak agonists. These studies demonstrate that there is a critical threshold of antigenic signal required for full activation of the T cell-APC interactions needed for the differentiation of Th1 cells. The provision of excess costimulation can overcome some of the defects in T cell activation by weak agonists, but is insufficient to induce a sufficient level of CD40L expression needed for engagement of CD40 on APC with subsequent IL-12 production and induction of IL-12Rbeta2 chain expression.
Contribution of dermal macrophage trafficking in the sensitization phase of contact hypersensitivity.	We investigated cellular trafficking of dermal macrophages that express a macrophage calcium-type lectin (MMGL) during the sensitization of delayed-type hypersensitivity. In skin, dermal macrophages, but not epidermal Langerhans cells, have been shown to express MMGL. Epicutaneous sensitization by FITC produced a transient increase in MMGL-positive cells in regional lymph nodes. To directly investigate whether the increase was due to cell migration from dermis, MMGL-positive cells purified from skin were intradermally injected into syngeneic mice after labeling with a fluorescent cell tracer, followed by epicutaneous sensitization over the site of injection. MMGL-positive cells containing the tracer were found in the regional lymph nodes after sensitization. The majority of the MMGL-positive cell migrants were negative for FITC fluorescence despite the presence of FITC-labeled cells that included Langerhans cell migrants. Because the extent of MMGL-positive cell migration was greatly influenced by the selection of vehicles to dissolve FITC, the efficiency of sensitization was compared using the ear swelling test. Migration of both Langerhans cells (FITC-labeled cells) and MMGL-positive cells contributed positively to the efficiency of sensitization. Interestingly, MMGL-positive cell migration was induced by vehicle alone, even in the absence of FITC. These results suggest that migration of dermal MMGL-positive cells accounts for the adjuvant effects of vehicles at least in part.
Quantification of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 proviral load by quantitative competitive polymerase chain reaction.	The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been established as a highly sensitive technique for detection of viral DNA or RNA. However, due to inherent limitations of PCR the amount of amplified product often does not correlate with the initial amount of template DNA. This is particularly true for PCR detection of viral infections that are characterized by low in vivo viral copy numbers in certain stages of the infection, such as human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) and simian T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (STLV-1). Therefore, we developed a quantitative competitive polymerase chain reaction (qcPCR) for detection of HTLV-1 and STLV-1 proviral DNA. The assay was optimized using an infectious HTLV-1 clone, ACH, HTLV-1 infected cell lines, MT-2.6 and HUT-102 and STLV-1 infected lines Kia and Matsu. Applicability of this system was demonstrated by determining HTLV-1 proviral load in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of human subjects with HTLV-1 associated diseases and an asymptomatic carrier as well as rabbits infected experimentally. This qcPCR method, the first designed specifically for HTLV-1 and STLV-1, will provide an important tool for pathogenesis studies of HTLV-1 and for evaluating the efficacy of antiviral drugs and vaccines against the viral infection using animal models.
Sensitive detection and typing of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus by RT-PCR amplification of whole viral genes.	Following the recent use of a live vaccine against porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) in Denmark, both American (vaccine) and European-type PRRSV now coexist in Danish herds. This situation highlighted a requirement for supplementary tests for precise virus-typing. As a result, we developed a RT-PCR assay able to detect as well as type PRRSV. To provide maximal sequence information, complete viral open reading frames (ORFs 5 and 7) were targeted for amplification. The RT-PCR test was able to amplify complete PRRSV ORFs from complex materials such as boar semen containing as little as 1 TCID50 ml(-1) of PRRSV. Typing of viruses was accomplished by any one of three strategies: (i) use of type-specific PCR primers, (ii) size determination of ORF 7 amplicons, (iii) DNA sequencing. All three typing strategies showed complete concordance with the currently used method of typing with monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) when used on a panel of PRRSV field isolates covering the period 1992-1997. The ORF 7-based test had particularly desirable characteristics, namely, highly sensitive detection of PRRSV without apparent type bias, typing of the detected virus, discrimination between pure and mixed virus populations, and semi-quantitative assessment of type ratios in mixed populations, all in a single PCR reaction. In addition, the obtained sequence data were used to predict two simple and rapid strategies (single-enzyme restriction length polymorphy analysis and oligonucleotide hybridization) for confirmation of the specificity of ORF 7 RT-PCR reactions. As such, the RT-PCR assay provides a new, powerful diagnostic tool to study the population dynamics between present and emerging PRRSV-types.
Distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea virus in tissues and white blood cells of cattle during acute infection.	This study is performed to gain knowledge about the quantitative distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in tissues and white blood cells (WBC) at different intervals after acute infection. Ten specific pathogen-free calves were intranasally inoculated with 10(5) 50% tissue culture infective dose of the non-cytopathic BVDV strain 4800. Twelve hours after inoculation tonsil biopsies were taken and WBC were collected daily for virus isolation and titration. Each day one calf was killed and virus isolations and titrations were performed from a range of tissues. The results indicate that BVDV first replicates in nasal mucosa and to high titers in the tonsil. The virus then appeared to spread to the regional lymph nodes and then disseminates throughout the body. The virus titers were highest in tonsil, thymus and ileum and were low in the WBC. Also after in vitro infection virus titers in WBC were very low, whereas, they were high in epithelial cells. Although the WBC might not be as important as other cells for replication of BVDV, they may play a role in the spread of the virus throughout the body.
