Raman spectroscopy in ophthalmology: from experimental tool to applications in vivo.	Raman spectroscopy is a qualitative and quantitative optical technique for determining the molecular composition of matter. Improvements in spectroscopic instruments, especially the modality to detect low light level signals extended the Raman technique to biomedical applications, even in delicate structures like the eye. The purpose of this paper was to make an inventory of performed applications of Raman spectroscopy in biomedical science and especially in ophthalmology. A literature search was done using Medline, Current Contents, a patent server on the Internet, and references found in articles and patents. This search revealed a variety of Raman techniques and applications in biomedical research, and an increasing flow of articles starting in the late 1970s on Raman spectroscopy in ophthalmology. This increase in literature about Raman spectroscopy in ophthalmology feeds the expectation that this valuable technique will be introduced in the future into clinical practice.
Noninvasive selective detection of lycopene and beta-carotene in human skin using Raman spectroscopy.	The predominant long-chain carotenoids found in human skin are lycopene and beta-carotene. They are powerful antioxidants and thought to act as scavengers for free radicals and singlet oxygen formed by normal metabolism as well as excessive exposure of skin to sunlight. The specific importance of the particular representatives of the carotenoid antioxidants regarding skin defense mechanisms is of strong current interest. We demonstrate fast and noninvasive detection of beta-carotene and lycopene concentrations in living human skin using Raman detection of the molecules' carbon-carbon double bond stretch vibrations. Employing excitation with suitable blue and green laser lines, and taking advantage of differing Raman cross sectional profiles for beta-carotene and lycopene, we determine the relative concentration of each carotenoid species. This novel technique permits the quantitative assessment of individual long-chain carotenoid species rather than their composite level in human skin. The obtained results reveal significant differences in the carotenoid composition of the subjects' skin and show that the ratio between beta-carotene and lycopene concentration can vary from 0.5 to 1.6. The technique holds promise as a method for rapid screening of carotenoid compositions in human skin in large populations and should be suitable for clinical studies correlating carotenoid status with risk for cutaneous diseases.
Roughened silver electrodes for use in metal-enhanced fluorescence.	Roughened silver electrodes are widely used for surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS). We tested roughened silver electrodes for metal-enhanced fluorescence. Constant current between two silver electrodes in pure water resulted in the growth of fractal-like structures on the cathode. This electrode was coated with a monolayer of human serum albumin (HSA) protein that had been labeled with a fluorescent dye, indocyanine green (ICG). The fluorescence intensity of ICG-HSA on the roughened electrode increased by approximately 50-fold relative to the unroughened electrode, which was essentially non-fluorescent and increased typically two-fold as compared to the silver anode. No fractal-like structures were observed on the anode. Lifetime measurements showed that at least part of the increased intensity was due to an increased radiative decay rate of ICG. In our opinion, the use of in situ generated roughened silver electrodes will find multifarious applications in analytical chemistry, such as in fluorescence based assays, in an analogous manner to the now widespread use of SERS. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report of roughened silver electrodes for metal-enhanced fluorescence.
The application of a SERS fiber probe for the investigation of sensitive biological samples.	The applicability of an etched and silver or gold coated SERS fiber probe in combination with a commercially available laboratory micro-Raman setup or a home built mobile micro-Raman setup to perform on-site field measurements was evaluated and successfully tested on different biological samples. The SERS fiber probe allows one to perform measurements with high spatial resolution. Simultaneously, the laser power used for Raman spectroscopy on biological samples as compared with conventional Raman experiments can be reduced by more than two orders of magnitude. This experimental arrangement was tested to investigate sensitive biological samples like mint plants (Bergamot mint, spear mint) and citrus fruits (kumquat). Furthermore, traces of fungicides on wine leaves were detected by means of such a SERS fiber probe setup.
Raman spectra of dipicolinic acid in crystalline and liquid environments.	Raman spectra of dipicolinic acid (DPA) are important for detection of bacterial spores, since DPA and its salts present one of their major components. The implementation of a deeply cooled CCD camera in combination with pulsed excitation at 532 nm allowed measuring well-resolved Raman spectra of the DPA in different forms. Powder preparations, crystals grown from saturated solutions and aqueous solutions of the DPA were studied. The spectral features in different environments and comparison with the spectra obtained by other methods are discussed.
Plasmonics-based nanostructures for surface-enhanced Raman scattering bioanalysis.	Surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) spectroscopy is a plasmonics-based spectroscopic technique that combines modern laser spectroscopy with unique optical properties of metallic nanostructures, resulting in strongly increased Raman signals when molecules are adsorbed on or near nanometer-size structures of special metals such as gold, silver, and transition metals. This chapter provides a synopsis of the development and application of SERS-active metallic nanostructures, especially for the analysis of biologically relevant compounds. Some highlights of this chapter include reports of SERS as an immunoassay readout method, SERS gene nanoprobes, near-field scanning optical microscopy SERS probes, SERS as a tool for single-molecule detection, and SERS nanoprobes for cellular studies.
In situ Raman analysis of gas formation in NiMH batteries.	In this paper Raman spectrometry is introduced in the field of sealed battery research for in situ gas-phase analysis and for longterm measurements. For this purpose, a new method was successfully applied in order to model battery behavior without interfering with operation. It is shown that oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen are responsible for the pressure increase that occurs during overcharging. The relative contribution of the different gases depends on the current imposed on the battery as well as the operating temperature. Reproducible and stable signals could be obtained even under severe conditions such as high pressure and elevated temperature. Oxygen and hydrogen are produced in side reactions taking place during battery operation. However, as nitrogen is unlikely to be a reacting gas inside the battery, the change in its partial pressure can be attributed to electrode expansion and a change in the electrolyte volume.
Depth profiling in diffusely scattering media using Raman spectroscopy and picosecond Kerr gating.	We demonstrate how pulsed laser Raman excitation (approximately 1 ps) followed by fast optical Kerr gating (approximately 4 ps) can be used to effectively separate Raman signals originating from different depths in heterogeneous diffusely scattering media. The diffuse scattering slows down photon propagation through turbid samples enabling higher depth resolution than would be obtained for a given instrumental time resolution in an optically transparent medium. Two types of experiments on two-layer systems demonstrate the ability to differentiate between surface and sub-surface Raman signals. A Raman spectrum was obtained of stilbene powder buried beneath a 1 mm over-layer of PMMA (poly(methyl methacrylate)) powder. The signal contrasts of the lower stilbene layer and upper PMMA layer were improved by factors >or=5 and >or=180, respectively, by rejecting the Raman component of the counterpart layer. The ability to select the Raman signal of a thin top surface layer in preference to those from an underlying diffusely scattering substrate was demonstrated using a 100 mum thick optically transparent film of PET (poly(ethylene terephthalate)) on top of stilbene powder. The gating resulted in the suppression of the underlying stilbene Raman signal by a factor of 1200. The experiments were performed in back-scattering geometry using 400 nm excitation wavelength. The experimental technique should be well suited to biomedical applications such as disease diagnosis.
Quantitative Raman reaction monitoring using the solvent as internal standard.	Despite its potential, the use of Raman spectroscopy for real-time quantitative reaction monitoring is still rather limited. The problems of fluorescence, laser instability, low intensities, and the inner filter effect often outscore the advantages as narrow bands, the use of glass fibers, and low scattering of water and glass. In this paper, we present real-time quantitative monitoring of the catalyzed Heck reaction by using the solvent as internal standard. In this way, all multiplicative distortions, e.g., laser intensity variations or absorbance of the laser light, can be corrected for. We also show that a limited amount of fluorescence does not hamper the analysis. Finally, we present a new method to correct for the inner filter effect, i.e., the absorbance of Raman scattered light by the reaction medium. Simultaneous absorption measurements of the reaction mixture enable accurate correction of Raman signals for the inner filter effect. Thus, for reaction monitoring applications, a Raman spectrometer should be equipped with an absorbance measurement device.
Pharmaceutical applications of Mid-IR and Raman spectroscopy.	Mid-IR and Raman spectroscopy are versatile tools in pharmaceutics and biopharmaceutics, with a wide field of applications ranging from characterization of drug formulations to elucidation of kinetic processes in drug delivery. After an introduction to the basic principles of IR and Raman spectroscopy, new developments in applications of these methods for studying drug delivery systems, in particular topical drug delivery, will be reviewed. FTIR-ATR is a well-established standard method used to study drug release in semisolid formulations, drug penetration, and influence of penetration modifiers; it is also capable of in vivo studies. FTIR-PAS has been applied to measure drug content in semisolid and solid formulations, to determine drug penetration into artificial and biological membranes. The big advantage of this technique is the possibility of spectral depth profiling. However, FTIR-PAS is so far limited to in vitro investigations. Raman spectroscopy can be used to characterize the structure of colloidal drug carrier systems. Raman spectroscopy is readily applicable to in vivo studies, but such investigations must fulfill the relevant laser safety guideline. Recently, there has been tremendous technical improvement in vibrational microspectroscopy. FTIR imaging shows great promise in its ability to visualize the drug and excipient distribution in pharmaceutical formulations such as tablets and therapeutic transdermal systems, as well as to reveal the mechanism of drug release. Furthermore, this unique technique offers completely new possibilities to study the lateral diffusion of drugs.
Red-excitation dispersive Raman spectroscopy is a suitable technique for solid-state analysis of respirable pharmaceutical powders.	Dispersive Raman spectroscopy with excitation by a red diode laser is suitable for quantitative crystallinity measurements in powders for pulmonary drug delivery. In spray-dried mixtures of salmon calcitonin and mannitol, all three crystalline polymorphs of mannitol and amorphous mannitol were unambiguously identified and their mass fractions were measured with a limit of quantification of about 5%. The instrument design offered high sensitivity and adequate background suppression, resulting in a low limit of detection in the range of 0.01% to 1%. This spectroscopy method has significant advantages over established techniques regarding specificity, sensitivity, and sample requirements.
Raman spectroscopy: the gateway into tomorrow's virology.	In the molecular world, researchers act as detectives working hard to unravel the mysteries surrounding cells. One of the researchers' greatest tools in this endeavor has been Raman spectroscopy. Raman spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique that measures the unique Raman spectra for every type of biological molecule. As such, Raman spectroscopy has the potential to provide scientists with a library of spectra that can be used to unravel the makeup of an unknown molecule. However, this technique is limited in that it is not able to manipulate particular structures without disturbing their unique environment. Recently, a novel technology that combines Raman spectroscopy with optical tweezers, termed Raman tweezers, evades this problem due to its ability to manipulate a sample without physical contact. As such, Raman tweezers has the potential to become an incredibly effective diagnostic tool for differentially distinguishing tissue, and therefore holds great promise in the field of virology for distinguishing between various virally infected cells. This review provides an introduction for a virologist into the world of spectroscopy and explores many of the potential applications of Raman tweezers in virology.
Influence of different light source on the laser Raman spectra in determination of sodium glutamic acid]	The influences of different laser source and different light power on laser Raman spectra were studied for the sodium glutamic acid. The results show that some influences existed using different wavelength and power of light source the peak shifting 6 cm(-1). As UV laser has great light power, the samples were destroyed, making the Raman spectra- reduce or disappear. The attenuation of light was needed. The linear relation existed between the Raman intensity and the power of laser light source, and the correlation coefficient was more then 0.999. The Raman intensity per light power unit was related to the wavelength, and was not related to the power of laser source.
Pulsed Raman fiber laser and multispectral imaging in three dimensions.	Raman scattering in single-mode optical fibers is exploited to generate multispectral light from a green nanolaser with high pulse repetition rate. Each pulse triggers a picosecond camera and measures the distance by time-of-flight in each of the 0.5 Mpixels. Three-dimensional images are then constructed with submillimeter accuracy for all visible colors. The generation of a series of Stokes peaks by Raman scattering in a Si fiber is discussed in detail and the laser radar technique is demonstrated. The data recording takes only a few seconds, and the high accuracy 3D color imaging works at ranges up to approximately 200 m. Applications for optical tomography in highly scattering media such as water and human tissue are mentioned.
Monitoring neurotransmitter release using surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy.	Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) is a promising tool to monitor neurotransmitter release at the single-cell level: it is a sensitive technique that provides structural information of the released compounds and spatial information about their release sites. In this study we demonstrate that depolarization-evoked catecholamine secretion by rat phaeochromocytoma (PC12) cells can be spatially resolved by SERS using silver colloids. A suitable SERS substrate was created by adding silver colloids to the cell culture medium. Nomarski-DIC microscopy combined with reflection confocal laser scanning microscopy showed that the colloids were primarily present on top of the cell membrane. The SERS spectra were successfully corrected for the contribution of cell constituents. Dopamine and noradrenaline were localized by examining the correlation coefficient between spectra and reference catecholamine spectra. Potential improvements of the temporal resolution of the technique are discussed.
Femtosecond stimulated Raman spectroscopy.	Femtosecond stimulated Raman spectroscopy (FSRS) is a new ultrafast spectroscopic technique that provides vibrational structural information with high temporal (50-fs) and spectral (10-cm(1)) resolution. As a result of these unique capabilities, FSRS studies of chemical and biochemical reaction dynamics are expected to grow rapidly, giving previously unattainable insight into the structural dynamics of reactively evolving systems with atomic spatial and femtosecond temporal resolution. This review discusses the experimental and theoretical concepts behind FSRS, with an emphasis on the origins of its unique temporal and spectral capabilities. We illustrate these capabilities with vibrational studies of ultrafast electronic dynamics, as well as the direct structural observation of nonstationary vibrational wave-packet motion in small molecules and in complex biochemical reaction dynamics.
Non-invasive glucose monitoring: assessment of technologies and devices according to quantitative criteria.	Aim of this review was to describe the main technologies for non-invasive glucose monitoring and the corresponding most relevant devices. The review tries to overcome the limitations of previous reviews on this topic, such as the lack of objective criteria for inclusion or exclusion of technologies or devices, and the poor organization of the information, which often does not allow easy comparison between technologies and devices. In this review, the information is concise and organized into specific categories, and hence it becomes easy to compare advantages and disadvantages of the different technologies and devices. For technologies, the categories of information considered are the technology name, the underlying physical principle, the technology limitations and the measurement sites on the human body. For devices, the categories of information are the device name, its approval condition (FDA Approval and/or CE Mark), the technology on which it is based, a device general description, the tests performed on the device, the corresponding results, safety information, aspects affecting usability, current status of the device and the manufacturer, an Internet reference for the device. A total of 14 technologies and 16 devices are included. Conclusions of the review were that, despite some interesting and promising technologies and devices, a satisfactory solution to the non-invasive glucose monitoring problem still requires further efforts.
Chemical concentration measurement in blood serum and urine samples using liquid-core optical fiber Raman spectroscopy.	We report measurements of chemical concentrations in clinical blood serum and urine samples using liquid-core optical fiber (LCOF) Raman spectroscopy to increase the collected signal strength. Both Raman and absorption spectra were acquired in the near-infrared region using the LCOF geometry. Spectra of 71 blood serum and 61 urine samples were regressed via partial least squares against reference analyzer values. Significant correlation was found between predicted and reference concentrations for 13 chemicals. Using absorption data to normalize the LCOF enhancement made the results more accurate. The experimental geometry is well suited for high-volume and automated chemical analysis of clear biofluids.
Stress microscopy and confocal Raman imaging of load-bearing surfaces in artificial hip joints.	Confocal Raman microprobe spectroscopy is a technique with considerable potential in biomedical science owing to its ability to nondestructively scan samples in 3D with high spatial resolution and to precisely characterize the chemical, physical and mechanical characteristics of biomaterials at their molecular scale. Beyond the capacity of other conventional assessments of biomaterial oxidation state, crystalline and phase fractions, Raman and luminescence techniques can be used for assessing residual stress fields in artificial hip joints. Provided that the probe response function characterizing the probe/biomaterial interaction is known, 3D residual stress fields can be determined precisely with high axial and lateral resolution.
In vivo coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering imaging of sciatic nerve tissue.	We report in vivo nonlinear optical imaging of mouse sciatic nerve tissue by epidetected coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering and second harmonic generation microscopy. Following a minimally invasive surgery to open the skin, coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering imaging of myelinated axons and second harmonic generation imaging of the surrounding collagen fibres were demonstrated with high signal-to-background ratio, three-dimensional spatial resolution, and no need for labelling. The underlying contrast mechanisms of in vivo coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering were explored by three-dimensional imaging of fat cells that surround the nerve. The epidetected coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering signals from the nerve tissues were found to arise from interfaces as well as back reflection of forward coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering.
Focus-engineered coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering microscopy: a numerical investigation.	The coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) signal is calculated as a function of focal-field distributions with engineered phase jumps. We show that the focal fields in CARS microscopy can be shaped such that the signal from the bulk is suppressed in the forward detection mode. We present the field distributions that display enhanced sensitivity to vibrationally resonant object interfaces in the lateral dimension. The use of focus-engineered CARS provides a simple means to detect chemical edges against the strong background signals from the bulk.
A combined micro-resonance Raman and absorption set-up enabling in vivo studies under varying physiological conditions: The nerve globin in the nerve cord of Aphrodite aculeata.	We hereby report on the design of a set-up combining micro-resonance Raman and absorption spectroscopy with a microfluidic system. The set-up enabled us to study the nerve globin of Aphrodite aculeata in the functional isolated nerve cord under varying physiological conditions for extended periods of time. The oxygenation cycle of the organism was triggered by utilizing the microfluidic system that allowed for a fast switch between aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The nerve globin was found to very easily shift from a penta-coordinated high spin ferrous form to the oxy state upon a change from anaerobic to aerobic conditions. The observed fast reaction to varying O(2) concentrations supports an oxygen-carrying and/or -storing function of the nerve globin. In addition, by combining resonance Raman and absorption spectroscopy, the physiological response could be distinguished from light-induced effects.
A prototype biosensor-integrated image-guided surgery system.	In this study we investigated the integration of a Raman spectroscopy-based biosensor with an image-guided surgery system. Such a system would provide a surgeon with both a diagnosis of the tissue being analysed (e.g. cancer) and localization information displayed within an imaging modality of choice. This type of mutual and registered information could lead to faster diagnoses and enable more accurate tissue resections.
Enhancing Raman tweezers by phase-sensitive detection.	Raman spectroscopy has become a powerful tool for microscopic analysis of organic and biological materials. When combined with optical tweezers (Raman tweezers), it allows investigating single, selected micrometric particles in their natural environment, therefore, reducing unwanted interferences from the cover plate. A general problem affecting both Raman spectrometers and Raman tweezers systems is the background caused by the environment surrounding the sample under investigation. In this paper, we report on a novel method that allows acquiring Raman spectra of a single trapped particle (polystyrene microspheres) free from any background contribution. The method is based on the use of two collinear and copropagating laser beams: the first is devoted to trapping (trap laser), while the second one is used to excite the Raman transitions (pump laser). The trap laser moves the trapped particle periodically, by means of a galvomirror, back and forth across the pump laser. The back-scattered photons are analyzed by a spectrometer and detected by a photomultiplier; finally, the resulting signal is sent to a lock-in amplifier for phase-sensitive detection. The purpose of the present work is to give a detailed description of our method and to supply a systematic study concerning the formation of the Raman signal. We trap polystyrene beads and study the dependence of the Raman signal on several parameters, such as height from the coverslip surface, the bead size, the modulation amplitude, and the pump laser intensity. Our results establish a direct and practical approach for background suppression in the spectroscopic analysis of optical trapped microsized samples.
An optofluidic device for surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy.	We have developed an optofluidic device that improves the sensitivity of surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) when compared to other SERS approaches. This device has a pinched and step microchannel-nanochannel junction that can trap and assemble nanoparticles/target molecules into optically enhanced SERS active clusters by using capillary force. These SERS active clusters provide an electromagnetic enhancement factor of approximately 10(8). In addition, due to the continuous capillary flow that can transport nanoparticles/target molecules into the junction sites, the numbers of nanoparticles/target molecules and SERS active sites are increased. As a result, the detection limit of SERS for adenine molecules was better than 10 pM.
Monitoring of mannitol phase behavior during freeze-drying using non-invasive Raman spectroscopy.	In this study, the feasibility of using Raman spectroscopy as a fast, non-invasive, non-destructive technique to monitor crystallization and polymorphic transformations during freeze-drying is assessed using mannitol as the model compound. In-line process monitoring was achieved by interfacing a Raman spectrometer with a fiber-optically coupled, long-working-distance probe to a freeze-drier. By analyzing the process data using principal component analysis, it was possible to extract valuable information pertaining to ice and mannitol crystallization points, the polymorphic form of mannitol, and dehydration of the mannitol hydrate. In conclusion, Raman spectroscopy is a potentially useful technique to monitor physical changes during freeze-drying.
Measuring the effects of topical moisturizers on changes in stratum corneum thickness, water gradients and hydration in vivo.	Moisturizers are the most commonly used topically applied product for the treatment of dry skin conditions. They affect many properties and functions of the stratum corneum but some moisturizers have been reported to be detrimental to barrier function. Stratum corneum barrier function is a composite of its total structure and thickness but few studies have taken this into account. As a biosensor, the stratum corneum (SC) will change its structure in response to treatment and a swelling effect has been clearly demonstrated by skin hydration. Recently several moisturizing agents have been shown to have an effect on SC swelling behaviour with conflicting results. However, there is a paucity of data reported for measuring the effects of long-term usage of moisturizers on SC thickness in vivo as, until recently, traditional techniques did not have the resolution to measure the effects of moisturizers on nonpalmoplantar body sites. The development of confocal Raman spectroscopy for use in human subjects provides noninvasive, real-time, in vivo measurement of SC water concentration profiles and we have also used this state of the art equipment to measure the effect of the long-term use of moisturizers on SC thickness for the first time.
Polarization-dependent surface-enhanced Raman scattering from a silver-nanoparticle-decorated single silver nanowire.	Single silver nanowires produced by DC electrodeposition in porous anodic alumina templates were surface-functionalized with the bifunctional molecule 4-aminobenzenthiol (ABT) then exposed to aqueous silver nanoparticles resulting in a silver nanoparticle-decorated silver nanowire. The polarization dependent surface-enhanced Raman (SERS) signal from this system showed significant intensity anisotropy when measured at a midsection of the nanowire, where the largest SERS intensities were observed when the incident light was polarized perpendicular to the nanowire's long axis but was almost isotropic near the tip of the nanowire. The observed effects were accounted for in terms of the electromagnetic fields concentrated in the collection of hot spots created through the ABT-linker-driven nanoparticle-nanowire self-assembly process.
Rapid microRNA (miRNA) detection and classification via surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS).	microRNAs (miRNA) are recognized as regulators of gene expression during development and cell differentiation as well as biomarkers of disease. Development of rapid and sensitive miRNA profiling methods is essential for evaluating the pattern of miRNA expression that varies across normal and diseased states. The ability to identify miRNA expression patterns is limited to cumbersome assays that often lack sensitivity and specificity to distinguish between different miRNA families and members. We evaluated a surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) platform for detection and classification of miRNAs. The strength of the SERS-based sensor is its sensitivity to detect extremely low levels of analyte and specificity to provide the molecular fingerprint of the analyte. We show that the SERS spectra of related and unrelated miRNAs can be detected in near-real time, that detection is sequence dependent, and that SERS spectra can be used to classify miRNA patterns with high accuracy.
Tip-enhanced near-field optical microscopy.	Spectroscopic methods with high spatial resolution are essential for understanding the physical and chemical properties of nanoscale materials, including quantum structures and biological surfaces. An optical technique is reviewed that relies on the enhanced electric fields in the proximity of a sharp, laser-irradiated metal tip. These fields are utilized for spatially confined probing of various optical signals, thus allowing for a detailed sample characterization far below the diffraction limit. In addition, tip-enhanced fields also provide the sensitivity crucial for the detection of nanoscale volumes. After outlining the principles of near-field optics, the mechanisms contributing to local field enhancement and how it can be used to enhance optical signals are discussed. Different experimental methods are presented and several recent examples of Raman and fluorescence microscopy with 10 nm spatial resolution of single molecules are reviewed.
Integrated multiple multi-photon imaging and Raman spectroscopy for characterizing structure-constituent correlation of tissues.	Histopathological imaging of tissues often requires extensive sample preparation including fixation and staining in order to highlight characteristic alterations associated with diseases. Herein, we report an integrated spectro-microscopy approach based on a combination of multi-modal multi-photon imaging and Raman micro-spectroscopy and demonstrate label-free characterization of the structure-constituent correlation of porcine skin. The multi-modal imaging allows the visualization of dermatological features whereas Raman micro-spectroscopy enables the identification of their 'molecular fingerprints'. By obtaining both structural and molecular-level information of tissue constituents, this integrated approach can offer new insight into the patho-physiological status of tissues.
Optical rogue-wave-like extreme value fluctuations in fiber Raman amplifiers.	We report experimental observation and characterization of rogue wave-like extreme value statistics arising from pump-signal noise transfer in a fiber Raman amplifier. Specifically, by exploiting Raman amplification with an incoherent pump, the amplified signal is shown to develop a series of temporal intensity spikes whose peak power follows a power-law probability distribution. The results are interpreted using a numerical model of the Raman gain process using coupled nonlinear Schrödinger equations, and the numerical model predicts results in good agreement with experiment.
Picosecond anti-Stokes generation in a photonic-crystal fiber for interferometric CARS microscopy.	We generate tunable picosecond anti-Stokes pulses by four-wave mixing of two picosecond pump and Stokes pulse trains in a photonic-crystal fiber. The visible, spectrally narrow anti-Stokes pulses with shifts over 150 nm are generated without generating other spectral features. As a demonstration, we employ the generated anti-Stokes pulses as reference pulses in an interferometric coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering imaging experiment showing that interpulse coherence among the pump, Stokes and anti-Stokes beams is retained.
Signal generation and Raman-resonant imaging by non-degenerate four-wave mixing under tight focusing conditions.	The authors demonstrate Raman-resonant imaging based on the simultaneous generation of several nonlinear frequency mixing processes resulting from a 3-color coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) experiment. The interaction of three coincident short-pulsed laser beams simultaneously generates both 2-color (degenerate) CARS and 3-color (non-degenerate) CARS signals, which are collected and characterized spectroscopically - allowing for resonant, doubly-resonant, and non-resonant contrast mechanisms. Images obtained from both 2-color and 3-color CARS signals are compared and found to provide complementary information. The 3-color CARS microscopy scheme provides a versatile multiplexed modality for biological imaging, which may extend the capabilities of label-free non-linear microscopy, e.g. by probing multiple Raman resonances.
Line-by-line control of 10-THz-frequency-spacing Raman sidebands.	We report line-by-line control of a coherent discrete spectrum (Raman sidebands) with a frequency spacing of 10.6 THz that is produced by an adiabatic Raman process. We show that the spectral phase of the Raman sidebands is finely controlled to the target (flat relative-spectral-phase). This is achieved by employing a combination of a spatial phase controller and a spectral interferometer, which are specifically designed for a high-power discrete spectrum. We also show that such spectral-phase control produces a train of Fourier transform limited pulses with an ultrahigh repetition rate of 10.6 THz in the time domain.
Fiber delivered probe for efficient CARS imaging of tissues.	We demonstrate a fiber-based probe for maximum collection of the coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) signal in biological tissues. We discuss the design challenges including capturing the backscattered forward generated CARS signal in the sample and the effects of fiber nonlinearities on the propagating pulses. Three different single mode fibers (fused silica fiber, photonic crystal fiber and double-clad photonic crystal fiber) were tested for the probe design. We investigated self-phase modulation, stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) and four-wave-mixing (FWM) generation in the fiber: nonlinear processes expected to occur in a two-beam excitation based probe. While SPM and SRS induced spectral broadening was negligible, a strong non phase-matched FWM contribution was found to be present in all the tested fibers for excitation conditions relevant to CARS microscopy of tissues. To spectrally suppress this strong contribution, the pro design incorporates separate fibers for excitation light delivery and for signal detection, in combination with dichroic optics. CARS images of the samples were recorded by collecting the back-scattered forward generated CARS signal in the sample through a multi-mode fiber. Different biological tissues were imaged ex vivo in order to assess the performance of our fiber-delivered probe for CARS imaging, a tool which we consider an important advance towards label-free, in vivo probing of superficial tissues.
Thermal monitoring: Raman spectrometer system for remote measurement of cellular temperature on a microscopic scale.	A simple setup is demonstrated for remote temperature monitoring of water, water-based media, and cells on a microscopic scale. The technique relies on recording changes in the shape of a stretching band of the hydroxyl group in liquid water at 3,100-3,700 cm(-1). Rather than direct measurements in the near-infrared (IR), a simple Raman spectrometer setup is realized. The measured Raman shifts are observed at near optical wavelengths using an inverted microscope with standard objectives in contrast to costly near-IR elements. This allows for simultaneous visible inspection through the same optical path. An inexpensive 671-nm diode pump laser (< 100 mW), standard dichroic and lowpass filters, and a commercial 600-1,000 nm spectrometer complete the instrument. Temperature changes of 1 degrees C are readily distinguished over a range consistent with cellular processes (25-45 degrees C) using integration times below 10 s. Greatly improved sensitivity was obtained by an automated two-peak fitting procedure. When combined with an optical camera, the instrument can be used to monitor changes in cell behavior as a function of temperature without the need for invasive probing. The instrument is very simple to realize, inexpensive compared with traditional Raman spectrometers and IR microscopes, and applicable to a wide range of problems in microthermometry of biological systems. In a first application of its kind, the instrument was used to successfully determine the temperature rise of a cluster of H1299 derived human lung cells adhered to polystyrene and immersed in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) under exposure of RF millimeter wave radiation (60 GHz, 1.3, 2.6, and 5.2 mW/mm2).
Hand-held spectroscopic device for in vivo and intraoperative tumor detection: contrast enhancement, detection sensitivity, and tissue penetration.	Surgery is one of the most effective and widely used procedures in treating human cancers, but a major problem is that the surgeon often fails to remove the entire tumor, leaving behind tumor-positive margins, metastatic lymph nodes, and/or satellite tumor nodules. Here we report the use of a hand-held spectroscopic pen device (termed SpectroPen) and near-infrared contrast agents for intraoperative detection of malignant tumors, based on wavelength-resolved measurements of fluorescence and surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) signals. The SpectroPen utilizes a near-infrared diode laser (emitting at 785 nm) coupled to a compact head unit for light excitation and collection. This pen-shaped device effectively removes silica Raman peaks from the fiber optics and attenuates the reflected excitation light, allowing sensitive analysis of both fluorescence and Raman signals. Its overall performance has been evaluated by using a fluorescent contrast agent (indocyanine green, or ICG) as well as a surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) contrast agent (pegylated colloidal gold). Under in vitro conditions, the detection limits are approximately 2-5 × 10(-11) M for the indocyanine dye and 0.5-1 × 10(-13) M for the SERS contrast agent. Ex vivo tissue penetration data show attenuated but resolvable fluorescence and Raman signals when the contrast agents are buried 5-10 mm deep in fresh animal tissues. In vivo studies using mice bearing bioluminescent 4T1 breast tumors further demonstrate that the tumor borders can be precisely detected preoperatively and intraoperatively, and that the contrast signals are strongly correlated with tumor bioluminescence. After surgery, the SpectroPen device permits further evaluation of both positive and negative tumor margins around the surgical cavity, raising new possibilities for real-time tumor detection and image-guided surgery. 
Protein-ligand binding investigated by a single nanoparticle TERS approach.	We report TERS imaging of individual 50 nm, biotin-labeled gold nanoparticles bound to a streptavidin-derivatized glass slide. Individual gold nanoparticles detected by a nanoparticle TERS tip generate Raman enhancements in both the biotin and streptavidin signals. These results indicate that nanoparticles are capable of investigating nanoscale spatial and chemical environments with non-resonant Raman enhancements.
RNAi screening for fat regulatory genes with SRS microscopy.	Identification of genes regulating fat accumulation is important for basic and medical research; genetic screening for those genes in Caenorhabditis elegans, a widely used model organism, requires in vivo quantification of lipids. We demonstrated RNA interference screening based on quantitative imaging of lipids with label-free stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) microscopy, which overcomes major limitations of coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering microscopy. Our screening yielded eight new genetic regulators of fat storage.
Enhanced bioanalyte detection in waveguide confined Raman spectroscopy using wavelength modulation.	Waveguide confined Raman spectroscopy (WCRS) incorporates a fibre based Raman detection system in a microfluidic platform enabling the spectroscopic detection of analyte. It offers the possibility to develop portable, alignment free devices for bio-analyte sensing with minimal sample preparation. Ultimate sensitivity is limited by the fibre auto-fluorescence background. Here we report enhanced bio-analyte detection sensitivity by combining WCRS with continuous wavelength modulation technique. We used urea as a model analyte and the modulation parameters have been optimized to maximize the sensitivity of the device.
Femtosecond stimulated Raman spectrometer in the 320-520nm range.	Multi-µJ narrow-bandwidth (≈ 10 cm(-1)) picosecond pulses, broadly tunable in the visible-UV range (320-520 nm), are generated by spectral compression of femtosecond pulses emitted by an amplified Ti:sapphire system. Such pulses provide the ideal Raman pump for broadband femtosecond stimulated Raman spectroscopy, as here demonstrated on a heme protein.
Lidar measurements of Raman scattering at ultraviolet wavelength from mineral dust over East Asia.	We developed a novel measurement channel that utilizes Raman scattering from silicon dioxide (SiO2) quartz at an ultraviolet wavelength (361 nm). The excitation of the Raman signals is done at the primary wavelength of 355 nm emitted from a lidar instrument. In combination with Raman signals from scattering from nitrogen molecules, we may infer the mineral-quartz-related backscatter coefficient. This technique thus allows us to identify in a comparably direct way the mineral quartz content in mixed pollution plumes that consist, e.g., of a mix of desert dust and urban pollution. We tested the channel for the complex situation of East Asian pollution. We find good agreement of the inferred mineral-quartz-related backscatter coefficient to results obtained with another mineral quartz channel which was operated at 546 nm (primary emission wavelength at 532 nm), the functionality of which has already been shown for a lidar system in Tsukuba (Japan). The advantage of the novel channel is that it provides a better signal-to-noise ratio because of the shorter measurement wavelength.
Integrated system for combined Raman spectroscopy-spectral domain optical coherence tomography.	Raman spectroscopy (RS) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) are powerful tools for optical analysis of tissues with mutually complementary strengths and limitations. OCT excels at visualizing tissue microstructure but lacks molecular specificity, while RS can relay tissue biochemical composition but typically cannot relate microstructure. Previous implementations of combined RS-OCT have utilized a common sample arm while maintaining independent RS and OCT detection arms. We present the design and application of an integrated RS-OCT instrument with a common detection arm for both RS and OCT. The detector is a spectrograph capable of sequential detection of the 855-nm OCT signal and the Raman scatter generated by a 785-nm source. The capabilities of the instrument are demonstrated ex vivo in the calvaria and retina of rodents, as well as in vivo in human skin.
Multimodal spectroscopy detects features of vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque.	Early detection and treatment of rupture-prone vulnerable atherosclerotic plaques is critical to reducing patient mortality associated with cardiovascular disease. The combination of reflectance, fluorescence, and Raman spectroscopy-termed multimodal spectroscopy (MMS)-provides detailed biochemical information about tissue and can detect vulnerable plaque features: thin fibrous cap (TFC), necrotic core (NC), superficial foam cells (SFC), and thrombus. Ex vivo MMS spectra are collected from 12 patients that underwent carotid endarterectomy or femoral bypass surgery. Data are collected by means of a unitary MMS optical fiber probe and a portable clinical instrument. Blinded histopathological analysis is used to assess the vulnerability of each spectrally evaluated artery lesion. Modeling of the ex vivo MMS spectra produce objective parameters that correlate with the presence of vulnerable plaque features: TFC with fluorescence parameters indicative of collagen presence; NC∕SFC with a combination of diffuse reflectance β-carotene∕ceroid absorption and the Raman spectral signature of lipids; and thrombus with its Raman signature. Using these parameters, suspected vulnerable plaques can be detected with a sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 72%. These encouraging results warrant the continued development of MMS as a catheter-based clinical diagnostic technique for early detection of vulnerable plaques.
Mechanism of ceroid formation in atherosclerotic plaque: in situ studies using a combination of Raman and fluorescence spectroscopy.	Accumulation of the lipid-protein complex ceroid is a characteristic of atherosclerotic plaque. The mechanism of ceroid formation has been extensively studied, because the complex is postulated to contribute to plaque irreversibility. Despite intensive research, ceroid deposits are defined through their fluorescence and histochemical staining properties, while their composition remains unknown. Using Raman and fluorescence spectral microscopy, we examine the composition of ceroid in situ in aorta and coronary artery plaque. The synergy of these two types of spectroscopy allows for identification of ceroid via its fluorescence signature and elucidation of its chemical composition through the acquisition of a Raman spectrum. In accordance with in vitro predictions, low density lipoprotein (LDL) appears within the deposits primarily in its peroxidized form. The main forms of modified LDL detected in both coronary artery and aortic plaques are peroxidation products from the Fenton reaction and myeloperoxidase-hypochlorite pathway. These two peroxidation products occur in similar concentrations within the deposits and represent ∼40 and 30% of the total LDL (native and peroxidized) in the aorta and coronary artery deposits, respectively. To our knowledge, this study is the first to successfully employ Raman spectroscopy to unravel a metabolic pathway involved in disease pathogenesis: the formation of ceroid in atherosclerotic plaque.
Multifunctional optical imaging using dye-coated gold nanorods in a turbid medium.	We report multifunctional optical imaging using dye-coated gold nanorods. Three types of useful information, namely, Raman, fluorescence signals, and absorption contrast, can be obtained from a phantom experiment. These three kinds of information are detected in a nanoparticle-doped-phantom using diffuse optical imaging. Our novel nanoparticle could be used as a multimodality marker for future bioimaging applications.
Lithographical gap-size engineered nanoarrays for surface-enhanced Raman probing of biomarkers.	Engineered gold nanostructured arrays with feature separation in the sub-10-nm range were fabricated and used for highly sensitive surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) detection of biomarkers. Nanostructuring is achieved by combining electron beam lithography with the so-called shadow evaporation technique which involves a two-step Au vapor deposition through a suspended Ge mask while the substrate is tilted in opposite directions. This results in a regular triangular surface pattern with extremely small gap distances that allow positive enhancement of the local electric fields by enabling improvements in the electromagnetic coupling between adjacent nanoparticles. The resulting SERS active surfaces are suitable for the realization of reference procedures for quantifying marker molecules like urea or creatinine at physiologically relevant concentrations.
Facile on-site detection of substituted aromatic pollutants in water using thin layer chromatography combined with surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy.	A novel facile method for on-site detection of substituted aromatic pollutants in water using thin layer chromatography (TLC) combined with surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) was explored. Various substituted aromatics in polluted water were separated by a convenient TLC protocol and then detected using a portable Raman spectrometer with the prepared silver colloids serving as SERS-active substrates. The effects of operating conditions on detection efficacy were evaluated, and the application of TLC-SERS to on-site detection of artificial and real-life samples of aromatics/polluted water was systematically investigated. It was shown that commercially available Si 60-F(254) TLC plates were suitable for separation and displayed low SERS background and good separation efficiency, 2 mM silver colloids, 20 mM NaCl (working as aggregating agent), 40 mW laser power, and 50 s intergration time were appropriate for the detection regime. Furthermore, qualitative and quantitative detection of most of substituted aromatic pollutants was found to be readily accomplished using the developed TLC-SERS technique, which compared well with GC-MS in terms of identification ability and detection accuracy, and a limit of detection (LOD) less than 0.2 ppm (even at ppb level for some analytes) could be achieved under optimal conditions. The results reveal that the presented convenient method could be used for the effective separation and detection of the substituted aromatic pollutants of water on site, thus reducing possible influences of sample transportation and contamination while shortening the overall analysis time for emergency and routine monitoring of the substituted aromatics/polluted water.
Diagnostic applications of Raman spectroscopy.	Raman spectroscopy has been widely used in various fields of science. It has been successfully utilized to qualitatively and quantitatively determine the molecular compositions of solid, liquid, and gaseous samples. This review focuses on the diagnostic applications of Raman spectroscopy in the past 5 years, with specific emphasis on transplant allograft rejection and cancer detections. First we introduce the principle of Raman spectroscopy and associated surface enhancement techniques. Various recent biomedical and clinical applications of Raman spectroscopy are then reviewed in detail. Finally, we present the experimental and analytical techniques required to implement Raman spectroscopy in a laboratory.
Surface-enhanced Raman scattering sensor on an optical fiber probe fabricated with a femtosecond laser.	A novel fabrication method for surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) sensors that used a fast femtosecond (fs) laser scanning process to etch uniform patterns and structures on the endface of a fused silica optical fiber, which is then coated with a thin layer of silver through thermal evaporation is presented. A high quality SERS signal was detected on the patterned surface using a Rhodamine 6G (Rh6G) solution. The uniform SERS sensor built on the tip of the optical fiber tip was small, light weight, and could be especially useful in remote sensing applications.
Raman imaging.	The past decade has seen an enormous increase in the number and breadth of imaging techniques developed for analysis in many industries, including pharmaceuticals, food, and especially biomedicine. Rather than accept single-dimensional forms of information, users now demand multidimensional assessment of samples. High specificity and the need for little or no sample preparation make Raman imaging a highly attractive analytical technique and provide motivation for continuing advances in its supporting technology and utilization. This review discusses the current tools employed in Raman imaging, the recent advances, and the major applications in this ever-growing analytical field.
Optical spectroscopy of marine bioadhesive interfaces.	Marine organisms have evolved extraordinarily effective adhesives that cure underwater and resist degradation. These underwater adhesives differ dramatically in structure and function and are composed of multiple proteins assembled into functional composites. The processes by which these bioadhesives cure--conformational changes, dehydration, polymerization, and cross-linking--are challenging to quantify because they occur not only underwater but also in a buried interface between the substrate and the organism. In this review, we highlight interfacial optical spectroscopy approaches that can reveal the biochemical processes and structure of marine bioadhesives, with particular emphasis on macrofoulers such as barnacles and mussels.
Fiber four-wave mixing source for coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering microscopy.	We present a fiber-format picosecond light source for coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering microscopy. Pulses from a Yb-doped fiber amplifier are frequency converted by four-wave mixing (FWM) in normal-dispersion photonic crystal fiber to produce a synchronized two-color picosecond pulse train. We show that seeding the FWM process overcomes the deleterious effects of group-velocity mismatch and allows efficient conversion into narrow frequency bands. The source generates more than 160 mW of nearly transform-limited pulses tunable from 775 to 815 nm. High-quality coherent Raman images of animal tissues and cells acquired with this source are presented.
Frequency shifts in SERS for biosensing.	We report an observation of a peculiar effect in which the vibrational frequencies of antibody-conjugated SERS-active reporter molecules are shifted in quantitative correlation with the concentration of the targeted antigen. We attribute the frequency shifts to mechanical perturbations in the antibody-reporter complex, as a result of antibody-antigen interaction forces. Our observation thus demonstrates the potentiality of an antibody-conjugated SERS-active reporter complex as a SERS-active nanomechanical sensor for biodetection. Remarkably, our sensing scheme, despite employing only one antibody, was found to be able to achieve detection sensitivity comparable to that of a conventional sandwich immunoassay. Additionally, we have carried out a proof-of-concept study into using multiple "stress-sensitive" SERS reporters for multiplexed detection of antigen-antibody bindings at the subdiffraction limit. The current work could therefore pave the way to realizing a label-free high-density protein nanoarray.
Electrodeposition of gold thin films with controlled morphologies and their applications in electrocatalysis and SERS.	Here, an easy and effective electrochemical route towards the synthesis of gold thin films with well-controlled roughness, morphology and crystallographic orientation is reported. To control these different factors, the applied potential during deposition played a major role. A tentative nucleation and growth mechanism is demonstrated by means of electrochemical characterizations and a formation mechanism is proposed. Interestingly, the differences in geometry and orientation of the different gold deposits have shown a clear correlation with the electrocatalytical activity in the case of oxygen sensing. In addition, not only the electrocatalytical activity but also the surface-enhanced Raman scattering of the gold deposits have been found to depend both on the roughness and on the size of the surface nanostructures, allowing a fine tuning by controlling these two parameters during deposition.
Fiber-based source for multiplex-CARS microscopy based on degenerate four-wave mixing.	We present a fiber-based laser source for multiplex coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) microscopy. This source is very compact and potentially alignment-free. The corresponding pump and Stokes pulses for the CARS process are generated by degenerate four-wave mixing (FWM) in photonic-crystal fibers. In addition, an ytterbium-doped fiber laser emitting spectrally narrow 100 ps pulses at 1035 nm wavelength serves as pump for the FWM frequency conversion. The FWM process delivers narrow-band pulses at 648 nm and drives a continuum-like spectrum ranging from 700 to 820 nm. With the presented source vibrational resonances with energies between 1200 cm<sup>-1</sup> and 3200 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be accessed with a resolution of 10 cm<sup>-1</sup>. Additionally, the temporal characteristics of the FWM output have been investigated by a cross-correlation setup, revealing the suitability of the emitted pulses for CARS microscopy. This work marks a significant step towards a simple and powerful all-fiber, maintenance-free multiplex-CARS source for real-world applications outside a laboratory environment.
Raman-assisted Brillouin optical time-domain analysis with sub-meter resolution over 100 km.	Sub-meter resolution in long-distance Brillouin Optical Time Domain Analysis (BOTDA) cannot be trivially achieved due to several issues including: resolution-uncertainty trade-offs, self-phase modulation, fiber attenuation, depletion, etc. In this paper we show that combining Raman assistance, differential pulse-width pair (DPP) measurements and a novel numerical de-noising procedure, we could obtain sub-meter resolution Brillouin optical time-domain analysis over a range of 100 km. We successfully demonstrate the detection of a 0.5 meter hot-spot in the position of worst contrast along the fiber.
Sensitivity enhancement of fiber-laser-based stimulated Raman scattering microscopy by collinear balanced detection technique.	We propose the collinear balanced detection (CBD) technique for noise suppression in fiber laser (FL)-based stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) microscopy. This technique reduces the effect of laser intensity noise at a specific frequency by means of pulse splitting and recombination with a time delay difference. We experimentally confirm that CBD can suppress the intensity noise of second harmonic (SH) of Er-FL pulses by 13 dB.The measured noise level including the thermal noise is higher by only ~1.4 dB than the shot noise limit. To demonstrate SRS imaging, we use 4-ps SH pulses and 3-ps Yb-FL pulses, which are synchronized subharmonically with a jitter of 227 fs. The effectiveness of the CBD technique is confirmed through SRS imaging of a cultured HeLa cell.
Low threshold 2nd-order random lasing of a fiber laser with a half-opened cavity.	In this paper, we reported the realization of 2nd-order random lasing in a half-opened fiber cavity, which is formed by a FBG with central wavelength at the 1st-order Raman Stokes wavelength and a single-mode fiber (SMF) performing as a random distributed feedback mirror. Using this proposed method, the threshold of 1st-order (2nd-order) random lasing is reduced to 0.7 (2.0) W, which is nearly 2 times lower than that observed in a completely-opened cavity.
Noise and artifact characterization of in vivo Raman spectroscopy skin measurements.	In this work principal component analysis (PCA), a multivariate pattern recognition technique, is used to characterize the noise contribution of the experimental apparatus and two commonly used methods for fluorescence removal used in biomedical Raman spectroscopy measurements. These two methods are a fifth degree polynomial fitting and an iterative variation of it commonly known as the Vancouver method. The results show that the noise in Raman spectroscopy measurements is related to the spectral resolution of the measurement equipment, the intrinsic variability of the biological measurements, and the fluorescence removal algorithm used.
Fluorocarbon fiber-optic Raman probe for non-invasive Raman spectroscopy.	We report the development of a novel fiber-optic Raman probe using a graded index fluorocarbon optical fiber. The fluorocarbon fiber has a simple Raman spectrum, a low fluorescence background, and generates a Raman signal that in turbid media serves as an intense reference Raman signal  that corrects for albedo. The intensity of the reference signal can easily be varied as needed by scaling the length of the excitation fiber. Additionally, the fluorocarbon probe eliminates the broad silica Raman bands generated in conventional silica-core fiber without the need for filters.
A Raman amplified GPON reach extension system using parameters of a deployed fiber.	Recently distributed Raman amplification of the upstream signal has been proposed to improve the loss budget for gigabit passive optical networks (GPON), and systems of 60-km reach and up to 128 way split have been demonstrated employing state-of-the-art fibers. However, a deployed fiber plant may not perform as well due to elevated fiber attenuation, splice losses, and back-reflections that are present in a realistic GPON system. In this paper, their effects on the Raman amplified 1310-nm upstream signal in a GPON reach extension system is investigated numerically. Using the parameters of a deployed fiber, a design solution is provided for a purely passive, Raman amplified GPON reach extender. Results show that 55-km logical reach and 1:32 split ratio can be achieved using a realistic fiber plant and class B + transceivers.
Widely tuneable fiber optical parametric amplifier for coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering microscopy.	We present a narrow-bandwidth, widely tunable fiber laser source for coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) spectro-microscopy. The required, synchronized, two-color pulse trains are generated by optical-parametric amplification in a photonic-crystal fiber (PCF). The four-wave-mixing process in the PCF is pumped by a 140ps, alignment-free fiber laser system, and it is seeded by a tunable continuous-wave laser; hence, a high spectral resolution of up to 1cm(-1) is obtained in the CARS process. Since the PCF is pumped close to its zero-dispersion wavelength, a broad parametric gain can be accessed, resulting in a large tuning range for the generated signal and idler wavelengths. CARS spectroscopy and microscopy is demonstrated, probing different molecular vibrational modes within the accessible region between 1200cm(-1) and 3800cm(-1).
Analytic theory of fiber-optic Raman polarizers.	The Raman polarizer is a Raman amplifier which not only amplifies but also repolarizes light. We propose a relatively simple and analytically tractable model - the ideal Raman polarizer, for describing the operation of this device. The model efficiently determines key device parameters such as the degree of polarization, the alignment parameter, the gain and the RIN variance.
RIN transfer in random distributed feedback fiber lasers.	We numerically investigate relative intensity-noise transfer from a noisy pump to the generated Stokes component in random distributed feedback ultralong Raman fiber lasers. Results show transfer levels comparable to those in distributed Raman amplification and cavity-based ultralong Raman fiber lasers, but with some unique spectral features.
Mode conversion using optical analogy of shortcut to adiabatic passage in engineered multimode waveguides.	A shortcut to adiabatic mode conversion in multimode waveguides using optical analogy of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage is investigated. The design of mode converters using the shortcut scheme is discussed. Computer-generated planar holograms are used to mimic the shaped pulses used to speed up adiabatic passage in quantum systems based on the transitionless quantum driving algorithm. The mode coupling properties are analyzed using the coupled mode theory and beam propagation simulations. We show reduced device length using the shortcut scheme as compared to the common adiabatic scheme. Modal evolution in the shortened device indeed follows the adiabatic eigenmode exactly amid the violation of adiabatic criterion.
Localized thermal mapping using coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy.	Coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) spectroscopy is explored as a tool for obtaining micro-scale thermal measurements. A single femtosecond oscillator is used to pump a photonic crystal fiber to provide the broadband Stokes pulse. The CARS signals from the broad OH-stretching modes between 3000 and 3600 cm(-1) are shown to correlate with temperature with an accuracy of ± 1°C for water and ± 1.5°C for phosphate-buffered saline. Local variation of temperature is mapped on a microscopic level, using black-dyed microspheres as thermal sources.
Real-time Raman spectroscopy for in vivo, online gastric cancer diagnosis during clinical endoscopic examination.	Optical spectroscopic techniques including reflectance, fluorescence and Raman spectroscopy have shown promising potential for in vivo precancer and cancer diagnostics in a variety of organs. However, data-analysis has mostly been limited to post-processing and off-line algorithm development. In this work, we develop a fully automated on-line Raman spectral diagnostics framework integrated with a multimodal image-guided Raman technique for real-time in vivo cancer detection at endoscopy. A total of 2748 in vivo gastric tissue spectra (2465 normal and 283 cancer) were acquired from 305 patients recruited to construct a spectral database for diagnostic algorithms development. The novel diagnostic scheme developed implements on-line preprocessing, outlier detection based on principal component analysis statistics (i.e., Hotelling's T2 and Q-residuals) for tissue Raman spectra verification as well as for organ specific probabilistic diagnostics using different diagnostic algorithms. Free-running optical diagnosis and processing time of < 0.5 s can be achieved, which is critical to realizing real-time in vivo tissue diagnostics during clinical endoscopic examination. The optimized partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) models based on the randomly resampled training database (80% for learning and 20% for testing) provide the diagnostic accuracy of 85.6% [95% confidence interval (CI): 82.9% to 88.2%] [sensitivity of 80.5% (95% CI: 71.4% to 89.6%) and specificity of 86.2% (95% CI: 83.6% to 88.7%)] for the detection of gastric cancer. The PLS-DA algorithms are further applied prospectively on 10 gastric patients at gastroscopy, achieving the predictive accuracy of 80.0% (60/75) [sensitivity of 90.0% (27/30) and specificity of 73.3% (33/45)] for in vivo diagnosis of gastric cancer. The receiver operating characteristics curves further confirmed the efficacy of Raman endoscopy together with PLS-DA algorithms for in vivo prospective diagnosis of gastric cancer. This work successfully moves biomedical Raman spectroscopic technique into real-time, on-line clinical cancer diagnosis, especially in routine endoscopic diagnostic applications.
Assessment of a custom-built Raman spectroscopic probe for diagnosis of early oesophageal neoplasia.	We evaluate the potential of a custom-built fiber-optic Raman probe, suitable for in vivo use, to differentiate between benign, metaplastic (Barrett's oesophagus), and neoplastic (dysplastic and malignant) oesophageal tissue ex vivo on short timescales. We measured 337 Raman spectra (λ(ex)=830 nm; P(ex)=60 mW; t=1 s) using a confocal probe from fresh (298) and snap-frozen (39) oesophageal tissue collected during surgery or endoscopy from 28 patients. Spectra were correlated with histopathology and used to construct a multivariate classification model which was tested using leave one tissue site out cross-validation in order to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the probe system. The Raman probe system was able to differentiate, when tested with leave one site out cross-validation, between normal squamous oesophagus, Barrett's oesophagus and neoplasia with sensitivities of (838% to 6%) and specificities of (89% to 99%). Analysis of a two group model to differentiate Barrett's oesophagus and neoplasia demonstrated a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 87% for classification of neoplastic disease. This fiber-optic Raman system can provide rapid, objective, and accurate diagnosis of oesophageal pathology ex vivo. The confocal design of this probe enables superficial mucosal abnormalities (metaplasia and dysplasia) to be classified in clinically applicable timescales paving the way for an in vivo trial.
A fast and low-cost spray method for prototyping and depositing surface-enhanced Raman scattering arrays on microfluidic paper based device.	In this study, a fast, low-cost, and facile spray method was proposed. This method deposits highly sensitive surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) on the paper-microfluidic scheme. The procedures for substrate preparation were studied including different strategies to synthesize AgNPs and the optimization of spray cycles. In addition, the morphologies of the different kinds of paper substrates were characterized by SEM and investigated by their SERS signals. The established method was found to be favorable for obtaining good sensitivity and reproducible results. The RSDs of Raman intensity of randomly analyzing 20 spots on the same paper or different filter papers depositing AgNPs are both below 15%. The SERS enhancement factor is approximately 2 × 10(7) . The whole fabrication is very rapid, robust, and does not require specific instruments. Furthermore, the total cost for 1000 pieces of chip is less than $20. These advantages demonstrated the potential for growing SERS applications in the area of environmental monitoring, food safety, and bioanalysis in the future. 
Analytical method for on-site test of drug precursor chemicals]	Thirteen kinds of common drug precursor chemicals were detected on the spot by transportable Raman spectrometer independently researched and developed. Changing analysis methods, such as the focal position of the instrument, analysis time, external light source, sample containers and the concentration of the analyte, the high quality Raman spectrums were obtained. The study shows that analysis method can be optimized to improve the detection efficiency, LOD (limit of detection) of 1-phenyl-2-acetone, toluene and chloroform was recorded for lower concentrations and the component contents of the mixture have a significant impact on the test results. Selecting the appropriate instrument conditions can be more effective and fast screening of precursor chemicals on site to provide help for those who are engaged in the anti-drug work.
A facile and real-time spectroscopic method for biofluid analysis in point-of-care diagnostics.	Accurate and real-time information is critical for decision making, especially in medical applications, where any delay in diagnosis due to collection, transport and storage of biofluids can have substantial ramifications for disease management.
Rapid (<5 min) identification of pathogen in human blood by electrokinetic concentration and surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy.	This study reports a novel microfluidic platform for rapid and long-ranged concentration of rare-pathogen from human blood for subsequent on-chip surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) identification/discrimination of bacteria based on their detected fingerprints. Using a hybrid electrokinetic mechanism, bacteria can be concentrated at the stagnation area on the SERS-active roughened electrode, while blood cells were excluded away from this region at the center of concentric circular electrodes. This electrokinetic approach performs isolation and concentration of bacteria in about three minutes; the density factor is increased approximately a thousand fold in a local area of ~5000 μm(2) from a low bacteria concentration of 5 × 10(3) CFU/ml. Besides, three genera of bacteria, S. aureus, E. coli, and P. aeruginosa that are found in most of the isolated infections in bacteremia were successfully identified in less than one minute on-chip without the use of any antibody/chemical immobilization and reaction processes. 
Tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy for the base interrogation of DNA.	A combination of scanning probe and Raman microscopies allows for the label-free chemical mapping of surfaces with spatial resolutions one to two orders of magnitude below the diffraction limit. Because Raman spectroscopy provides a highly specific molecular "fingerprint," the resulting spectra allow speciation of even highly similar chemical compounds. The surface enhancement phenomenon allows Raman signals from a species to be enhanced by many orders of magnitude within the vicinity (~10nm) of a source of free electrons such as a noble metal. Presenting the metal surface as a single highly localized point, and moving this point with angstrom accuracy across a distributed, heterogenous surface while collecting Raman spectra, is what is known as tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, or TERS. 
Semi-quantification of surface-enhanced Raman scattering using a handheld Raman spectrometer: a feasibility study.	The feasibility of utilizing a handheld Raman spectrometer for surface-enhanced Raman scattering detection was evaluated on the pesticide ferbam. A layman's "answer box" was established for semi-quantifying the risk level of ferbam. This study advanced the application of a handheld Raman spectrometer to on-site evaluation of trace amounts of analytes. 
Determination of α-tocopherol in vegetable oils using a molecularly imprinted polymers-surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopic biosensor.	We report the development of a novel hybrid "capture-detection" molecularly imprinted polymers-surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopic (MIPs-SERS) biosensor for the detection and quantification of α-tocopherol (α-Toc) in vegetable oils. α-Toc served as the template for MIPs synthesis. Methacrylic acid formed as the functional monomer. Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate was the cross-linking agent, and 2,2'-azobisisobutyronitrile was used as the initiator. The synthesized MIPs functioned to rapidly and selectively adsorb and separate α-Toc from oil components. We validated a dendritic silver nanostructure synthesized by a displacement reaction to be a suitable SERS substrate for the enhancement of Raman signals. Second-derivative transformations and chemometric models based upon SERS spectral features confirmed the possibility of a rapid and precise detection and quantification of different spiking levels of α-Toc in four different sources of vegetable oils (Mahalanobis distance from 15.93 to 34.01 for PCA model; R > 0.92, RMSE < 0.41 for PLSR model). The MIPs-SERS biosensor had a high sensitivity as well as a good recovery for α-Toc analysis in vegetable oils. The entire analysis required 15 min or less to complete with limited sample preparation. 
Use of surface-enhanced Raman scattering for detection of cancer-related serum-constituents in gastrointestinal cancer patients.	Laser-mediated surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) has industrial and biological applications. We have developed a rapid and simple method for generating silver nanoscale hexagonal columns (NHCs) on the surface of a phosphor bronze chip for measurement of SERS spectra. This was used to detect SERS spectra from blood samples obtained from patients with gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, or benign diseases (n=12 each) using a low intensity helium-neon red laser beam with a 632.8-nm wavelength; the intensity of the SERS spectra was compared among the patient groups. The peak heights of SERS spectra from patients with benign diseases were significantly lower than those from patients with gastric or colorectal cancer, whereas those from patients with gastric cancer and colorectal cancer did not differ significantly. Thus, SERS using NHC chips holds promise for the easier and faster detection of cancer-related serum-constituents as biomarkers.
Design and characterization of hybrid morphology nanoarrays as plasmonic Raman probes for antimicrobial detection.	Advances in nanofabrication have allowed the production of new and more reproducible substrates for the Raman detection of trace antimicrobials in water. The superior substrate uniformity combined with the ability to control surface morphology represents a significant step forward in the design of substrates with improved enhancement factors and trace-detection capabilities. The work presented herein successfully combines electron-beam lithography (EBL) and reactive ion-etching (RIE) protocols for the construction, testing, and validation of plasmonic hybrid morphology nanoarrays for the detection of arsenic antimicrobials in water. The fabricated substrates consist of 2500 μm(2) Ag-coated silicon dioxide (SiO2)/Si pillar nanoarrays of alternating hexagonal and elliptical features. Control of simple fabrication parameters such as inter-particle spacing (gap) and its orientation relative to the laser polarization vector (parallel or orthogonal) result in over a tenfold improvement in the apparent Raman response under optimized conditions. At a 633 nm excitation frequency, the best substrate performance was observed on parallel-oriented features with a 200 nm gap, with over one order of magnitude increase in the apparent surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) signal relative to standard silver-polydimethylsiloxane (Ag-PDMS) nanocomposites. Monitoring of the characteristic As-C stretching band at 594 cm(-1) allowed the detection of arsenic antimicrobials in water well within the parts per million range. Calculated surface-enhancement factors (SEF) for this substrate, employing 532, 785, and 633 nm excitation wavelengths, was within five, six, and seven orders of magnitude, respectively. The effect of substrate morphology and nanofabrication process on the Raman enhancement factor is presented. 
A microfluidic bioreactor with in situ SERS imaging for the study of controlled flow patterns of biofilm precursor materials.	A microfluidic bioreactor with an easy to fabricate nano-plasmonic surface is demonstrated for studies of biofilms and their precursor materials via Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy (SERS). The system uses a novel design to induce sheath flow confinement of a sodium citrate biofilm precursor stream against the SERS imaging surface to measure spatial variations in the concentration profile. The unoptimised SERS enhancement was approximately 2.5 × 10(4), thereby improving data acquisition time, reducing laser power requirements and enabling a citrate detection limit of 0.1 mM, which was well below the concentrations used in biofilm nutrient solutions. The flow confinement was observed by both optical microscopy and SERS imaging with good complementarity. We demonstrate the new bioreactor by growing flow-templated biofilms on the microchannel wall. This work opens the way for in situ spectral imaging of biofilms and their biochemical environment under dynamic flow conditions.
Rapid on-site TLC-SERS detection of four antidiabetes drugs used as adulterants in botanical dietary supplements.	A novel facile method has been established for rapid on-site detection of antidiabetes chemicals used to adulterate botanical dietary supplements (BDS) for diabetes. Analytes and components of pharmaceutical matrices were separated by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) then surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) was used for qualitative identification of trace substances on the HPTLC plate. Optimization and standardization of the experimental conditions, for example the method used for preparation of silver colloids, the mobile phase, and the concentration of colloidal silver, resulted in a very robust and highly sensitive method which enabled successful detection when the amount of adulteration was as low as 0.001 % (w/w). The method was also highly selective, enabling successful identification of some chemicals in extremely complex herbal matrices. The established TLC-SERS method was used for analysis of real BDS used to treat diabetes, and the results obtained were verified by liquid chromatography-triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS). The study showed that TLC-SERS could be used for effective separation and detection of four chemicals used to adulterate BDS, and would have good prospects for on-site qualitative screening of BDS for adulterants. 
Using a silver-enhanced microarray sandwich structure to improve SERS sensitivity for protein detection.	A simple and sensitive method, based on surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS), for immunoassay and label-free protein detection is reported. A series of bowl-shaped silver cavity arrays were fabricated by electrodeposition using a self-assembled polystyrene spheres template. The reflection spectra of these cavity arrays were recorded as a function of film thickness, and then correlated with SERS enhancement using sodium thiophenolate as the probe molecule. The results reveal that SERS enhancement can be maximized when the frequency of both the incident laser and the Raman scattering approach the frequency of the localized surface plasmon resonance. The optimized array was then used as the bottom layer of a silver nanoparticle-protein-bowl-shaped silver cavity array sandwich. The second layer of silver was introduced by the interactions between the proteins in the middle layer of the sandwich architecture and silver nanoparticles. Human IgG bound to the surface of this microcavity array can retain its recognition function. With the Raman reporter molecules labeled on the antibody, a detection limit down to 0.1 ng mL(-1) for human IgG is easily achieved. Furthermore, the SERS spectra of label-free proteins (catalase, cytochrome C, avidin and lysozyme) from the assembled sandwich have excellent reproducibility and high quality. The results reveal that the proposed approach has potential for use in qualitative and quantitative detection of biomolecules. 
Structure-selective hot-spot Raman enhancement for direct identification and detection of trace penicilloic acid allergen in penicillin.	Trace penicilloic acid allergen frequently leads to various fatal immune responses to many patients, but it is still a challenge to directly discriminate and detect its residue in penicillin by a chemosensing way. Here, we report that silver-coated gold nanoparticles (Au@Ag NPs) exhibit a structure-selective hot-spot Raman enhancement capability for direct identification and detection of trace penicilloic acid in penicillin. It has been demonstrated that penicilloic acid can very easily link Au@Ag NPs together by its two carboxyl groups, locating itself spontaneously at the interparticle of Au@Ag NPs to form strong Raman hot-spot. At the critical concentration inducing the nanoparticle aggregation, Raman-enhanced effect of penicilloic acid is ~60,000 folds higher than that of penicillin. In particular, the selective Raman enhancement to the two carboxyl groups makes the peak of carboxyl group at C6 of penicilloic acid appear as a new Raman signal due to the opening of β-lactam ring of penicillin. The surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) nanoparticle sensor reaches a sensitive limit lower than the prescribed 1.0‰ penicilloic acid residue in penicillin. The novel strategy to examine allergen is more rapid, convenient and inexpensive than the conventional separation-based assay methods. 
Total internal reflection spectroscopy for studying soft matter.	Total internal reflection (TIR) spectroscopy is a widely used technique to study soft matter at interfaces. This tutorial review aims to provide researchers with an overview of the principles, experimental design and applications of TIR spectroscopy to enable them to understand how this class of techniques might be used in their research. It also highlights limitations and pitfalls of TIR techniques, which will assist readers in critically analysing the literature. Techniques covered include attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy (ATR-IR), TIR fluorescence, TIR Raman scattering and cavity-enhanced techniques. Other related techniques are briefly described. 
Optical frequency conversion in silica-whispering-gallery-mode microspherical resonators.	High quality factor whispering-gallery-mode microresonators are ideally suited for nonlinear optical interactions. We analyze, experimentally and theoretically, a variety of χ((3)) nonlinear interactions in silica microspheres, consisting of third harmonic generation and Raman assisted third order sum-frequency generation in the visible. A tunable, room temperature, cw multicolor emission in silica microspherical whispering-gallery-mode microresonators has been achieved by controlling the cavity mode dispersion and exciting nonequatorial modes for efficient frequency conversion.
Facile fabrication of silver nanoclusters as promising surface-enhanced Raman scattering substrates.	We present a simple wet chemical method to make thin film of silver nanoclusters on glass or silicon substrate. The method includes immersion of glass or silicon substrate into a saturated solution of silver nitrate in n-octanol. After 24 h, thin film of silver nanoclusters, which are micrometer-scale aggregates of silver nanoparticles with average size in the range of 80-100 nm, are formed on the substrate. The film is characterized by X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and UV-Vis spectroscopy. Potential use of the Ag nanoclusters as a surface-enhanced Raman scattering based sensing platform is demonstrated by measuring increased Raman signals from organic molecule adsorbed on the Ag nanoparticle clusters.
Silver-gold bimetallic nanoparticles and their applications as optical materials.	Recently, nanoscale metallic particles have been studied extensively due to their tunable and strong optical properties that are well beyond those of organic chromophores. As monometallic nanoparticles have shown strong but narrow absorption bands within the ultraviolet and visible wavelengths, the preparation of bimetallic core-shell structures can give rise to strong, wide, and tunable absorption bands across the visible to near infrared areas. The silver-gold bimetallic nanoparticles with core-shell structures can offer unique physical and optical properties inaccessible to monometallic systems. These nanoparticles have been utilized in many areas of research including chemical catalysis, surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy, and photothermal therapy. This review article is a comprehensive overview of bimetallic nanoparticle systems consisting of gold and silver; it is based on the recent advances in wet-chemical synthetic methodologies, the characterization of size and shape-dependent optical properties, and various optically driven applications including catalysis, signal-enhancing devices, and biomedical purposes.
Rapid and sensitive detection of melamine in milk with gold nanoparticles by Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering.	A rapid and sensitive method to detect melamine in liquid milk based on Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS) spectroscopy is presented, exploiting the selective binding of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) with this analyte. This interaction promotes the aggregation of the AuNPs inducing a huge enhancement of the melamine signals in the Raman spectrum due to the formation of SERS "hot spots". An external standard calibration method was employed for quantitative analysis and the method was validated for linearity, sensitivity, repeatability and recovery. A good linearity (R(2)=0.99) was found in the concentration range of 0.31-5.0 mg l(-1) in milk with a limit of detection of 0.17 mg l(-1). This method does not require a long extraction procedure (total analysis time can be lower than 30 min) and can be reliably used for melamine detection in milk matrix in accordance with the European law limits.
Raman spectroscopy of supercoiled and nicked ColE1 plasmid.	Native supercoiled and nicked ColE1 DNA were examined using laser Raman spectroscopy. ColE1 contains 6646 base pairs (bp) and, when supercoiled, approximately 47 negative supercoils. An analytical buoyant density gradient centrifugation technique developed by Burke and Bauer was scaled to preparative quantities, and used to isolate the supercoiled plasmid fraction from its nicked counterpart. This procedure allowed enriched fractions of the supercoiled plasmid to be extracted without the use of the optical contaminant ethidium bromide. The intensities of several Raman bands were altered between the spectra of the two topological forms. Notably absent were any changes in bands arising from cytosine and guanine vibrations. The observed changes are interpreted in terms of the polymorphic structures which have been observed in many DNA structural studies. The results of this study suggest that accommodation of supercoiling takes place chiefly in A-T base pairs and backbone moieties, without substantial modification of G-C base-pair structure. Premelting effects may account for the observed changes, including a slight shift to lower frequency of a band known to be responsive to base-pair disruption. Heteronomous ribose sugar pucker is evident in both supercoiled and nicked plasmid species. No gross conformational transitions were detected for native supercoiled DNA, and consequently, subtle rearrangements appear sufficient to absorb the supercoiling deformations.
Raman dynamic probe of hydrogen exchange in bean pod mottle virus: base-specific retardation of exchange in packaged ssRNA.	We describe a novel approach to investigating exchange kinetics in biological assemblies. The method makes use of a Raman multichannel analyzer coupled with a dialysis flow cell. We employ this methodology to determine exchange rates of labile hydrogens in both the packaged RNA genome and protein subunits of bean pod mottle virus (BPMV). In the BPMV assembly, which is similar to human picornaviruses, the x-ray structure indicates that about 20% of the ssRNA chain is ordered at the threefold vertices of the icosahedral capsid, although the nucleotide bases in the ordered segments are not known (Chen et al., 1989). Here, we compare exchange profiles of the native virus with those of the empty capsid, model nucleic acids and aqueous solvent to reveal the following exchange characteristics of BPMV RNA and protein: (i) Base-specific retardation of exchange is observed in the packaged RNA. (ii) Retardation is greatest for uracil residues, for which the first-order exchange rate constant (kU = 0.18 +/- 0.02 min-1) is 40% lower than that of either the H2O solvent or adenine or cytosine groups of RNA (ksolv approximately kA approximately kC = 0.30 +/- 0.02 min-1). (iii) Retardation of exchange is also observed for the guanine residues of packaged RNA. (iv) No appreciable exchange of amide NH groups of capsid subunits occurs within the time of complete exchange (t approximately 10 min) of packaged RNA or bulk solvent. Thus, the present results identify sites in both the protein subunits (amide NH) and RNA nucleotides (amino NH2 and imino NH) which are resistant to solvent-catalyzed hydrogen exchange. We propose that retardation of exchange of labile sites of the RNA nucleotides is a consequence of the organization of the RNA chromosome within the virion. Our findings support a model for BPMV in which surface and buried domains of capsid subunits are extensively and rigidly hydrogen-bonded, and in which uracil and guanine exocyclic donor groups of packaged RNA are the principal targets for subunit interaction at the threefold vertices of the capsid.
Stability and long-term durability of Raman spectroscopy.	The purpose of this study was to assess in the clinical setting the reliability and long-term stability of Raman spectroscopy as implemented in the RASCAL multiple gas analyzer, and to describe/analyze failure modes that manifest in regular use.
Calcium oxalate crystals in human pathology. Molecular analysis with the laser Raman microprobe.	Calcium oxalate crystals in pathologic specimens were examined by the laser Raman microprobe, a nondestructive spectroscopic technique. Although research focused on the identification of calcium oxalate deposits in tissue sections, kidney stones were also studied to determine the in situ structural specificity of the technique.
Subunit orientation in the filamentous virus Ff(fd, f1, M13).	The Ff filamentous viruses (fd, M13, f1) are important models for membrane protein assembly and are used extensively as cloning vectors and vehicles for peptide display. The thread-like virion (approximately 6 nm x 880 nm) comprises a single-stranded DNA genome sheathed by approximately 2700 copies of a 50-residue alpha-helical subunit (pVIII). The average inclination of pVIII subunits from the virion axis has been determined experimentally by polarized Raman microspectroscopy of oriented fd fibers, using the amide I Raman tensors obtained from a peptide single crystal. It is found that the average tilt angle, theta, between the pVIII alpha-helix and the virion axis falls within the range 13< theta <20 degrees.
Development of a fiber optic probe to measure NIR Raman spectra of cervical tissue in vivo.	The goal of this study was to develop a compact fiber optic probe to measure near infrared Raman spectra of human cervical tissue in vivo for the clinical diagnosis of cervical precancers. A Raman spectrometer and fiber optic probe were designed, constructed and tested. The probe was first tested using standards with known Raman spectra, and then the probe was used to acquire Raman spectra from normal and precancerous cervical tissue in vivo. Raman spectra of cervical tissue could be acquired in vivo in 90 s using incident powers comparable to the threshold limit values for laser exposure of the skin. Although some silica signal obscured tissue Raman bands below 900 cm-1, Raman features from cervical tissue could clearly be discerned with an acceptable signal-to-noise ratio above 900 cm-1. The success of the Raman probe described here indicates that near infrared Raman spectra can be measured in vivo from cervical tissues. Increasing the power of the excitation source could reduce the integration time to below 20 s.
Isotachophoretic separations on a microchip. Normal Raman spectroscopy detection.	Isotachophoretic separations of the herbicides paraquat and diquat are performed in a glass microchip etched channel and monitored on-chip by normal Raman spectroscopy. The 40-micron-wide and 75-micron-deep separation channels are chemically etched in a serpentine design to 21-cm total length. A 120-micron-thick glass cover slip is used to seal the channels. Separation field strengths up to 380 V/cm are used. The microchip is directly coupled to a Raman microprobe. No interfacing is required. Raman spectra are generated with a 2-W, 532-nm NdY-VO4 laser and collected at 8-cm-1 resolution with a holographic transmissive spectrograph and a cryogenically cooled CCD. Data acquisition is at 2-5 spectra/s. Raman isotachopherograms of the pesticides at starting concentrations as low as 2.3 x 10(-7) M (60 ppb paraquat/80 ppb diquat) are presented.
