Alaryngeal speech aid using an intra-oral electrolarynx and a miniature fingertip switch.	We developed and evaluated an intra-oral electrolaryngeal speech aid system for those who could not acquire common alaryngeal speech or for early post-surgery speech rehabilitation. Our system consisted of a denture-base intra-oral vibrator, a wireless miniature fingertip switch and a controller. To produce natural speech, the fingertip switch produced binary commands of voicing and accent and the controller implemented the pitch generation model using the commands. We first estimated the intelligibility of consonant-vowel syllables produced by our system. We then obtained the feedback about the system from the Japanese users on the basis of their daily life use, and evaluated the possibility and acceptability as an alaryngeal speech aid. Although the users were less satisfied at the intra-oral electrolarynx, the intelligibility of the intra-oral electrolarygeal speech was comparable to that of transcervical electrolaryngeal speech, and most of them were willing to employ it if they lost their current electrolaryngeal speech. According to the feedbacks from the users, a completely wire-free system and less eye-catching designs would make the prosthesis more acceptable. These results placed the intra-oral electrolarynx as a useful option of alaryngeal speech aids and encouraged the further development of the intra-oral electrolarynx.
Tracheostoma humidifier: influence on secretion and voice of patients with total laryngectomy.	total laryngectomy has several consequences such as loss of the laryngeal voice and alterations in the respiratory system.
Statistical differentiation of tracheoesophageal speech produced under four prosthetic/occlusion speaking conditions.	Twelve male and 12 female total laryngectomy patients who received the tracheoesophageal puncture (TEP) as a means of vocal rehabilitation served as subjects for this investigation. Recordings were made of these subjects' speech produced with four prosthetic/occlusion conditions: (1) duckbill prosthesis with tracheostoma valve; (2) duckbill prosthesis with digital occlusion of the tracheostoma; (3) low pressure prosthesis with tracheostoma valve; and (4) low pressure prosthesis with digital occlusion. Speech tasks consisted of three trials of maximum phonation time on /a/ and reading of a 98-word standard passage. Acoustic analysis of the recorded speech samples included a total of 34 frequency, intensity, temporal, and noise measures. Eight acoustic measures (words per minute, harmonics-to-noise ratio, percent jitter, intensity range during vowel phonation, percent periodic phonation, mean intensity during reading, directional jitter, and directional jitter, and directional shimmer) were chosen as dependent variables for a repeated measures MANOVA. The overall repeated measures MANOVA, a set of complex contrasts, and paired t tests revealed that TEP speech produced with the low pressure prosthesis was significantly different from that produced with the duckbill prosthesis on a weighted linear combination of the eight acoustic variables. Tracheoesophageal voice produced with a low pressure prosthesis had greater amounts of periodic phonation than tracheoesophageal voice produced with a duckbill prosthesis. The use of a tracheostoma valve did not have a significant impact on the subset of acoustic measures used in the repeated measures MANOVA.
Tracheostoma valve for speech rehabilitation in laryngectomees.	In the newer surgical procedures for fistula speech, finger occlusion of the tracheostoma is mandatory for speech production. This can be embarrassing as it draws attention to the patient's stoma. Finger occlusion is unhygienic and at times inconvenient. A new tracheostoma valve has been designed to eliminate the need for finger occlusion for speech. It has been evaluated clinically in nine laryngectomees, all of whom retained a good objective quality of speech similar to that obtained by finger occlusion. Vocal efficiency measurements with the valve are very encouraging. The valve is simple to use, of universal size, self-retaining, does not need any skin cleansing and obviates the need for skin adhesives to hold the valve in place.
