Probing the binding behavior and conformational states of globular proteins in reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography.	Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) is a widely used technique for the separation of proteins under low pH aquo-organic solvent gradient elution conditions, typically carried out at ambient temperatures. These conditions can however induce conformational effects with proteins as evident from changes in their biological or immunological activities. By monitoring the influence of temperature on the retention and band-broadening characteristics of proteins, the role of conformational processes in these lipophilic environments can be examined. These processes can then be interpreted in terms of a two-state model involving a native (N) and a fully unfolded species (U) or more complex folding/unfolding models. In the present study, the gradient elution RP-HPLC behavior of sperm whale myoglobin (SWMYO) and hen egg white lysozyme (HEWL) has been investigated at temperatures between 5 and 85 degrees C with n-octadecyl (C18)- and n-butyl (C4)-silica reversed-phase sorbents. The interaction of these proteins with these reversed-phase sorbents has also been examined in terms of the contributions that the heme prosthetic group of SWMYO and the disulfide bonds in HEWL make to the stabilization of the native conformation of these proteins in these hydrophobic environments. The observed interconversions of multiple peak zones of SWMYO and HEWL in the presence of C18 and C4 ligands have been subsequently analyzed in terms of the unfolding processes that these proteins can undergo at low pH and at elevated temperatures. The ability of hydrocarbonaceous ligands to trap ensemblies of partially unfolded conformational intermediates of proteins in these perturbing environments has been examined. Pseudo-first-order rate constants have been derived for these processes from analysis of the dependencies on time of the concentration of the different protein species at specified temperatures. The relationship of these processes to the conformational transitions that these proteins can undergo via molten globule-like intermediates (i.e., compact denatured states with a significant amount of residual secondary structure) in solution has also been examined. This study thus further documents an experimental strategy to assess the folding/unfolding behavior of globular proteins in the presence of hydrophobic surfaces and aquo-organic solvents, whereby the system parameters can potentially affect the preservation of native conformations, and thus the function, of the protein under these conditions.
Maturation-related changes in distribution of lectin receptors in baboon (Papio anubis) spermatozoa during epididymal maturation.	Changes in distribution of surface glycoproteins in baboon sperm were studied by lectin blotting techniques. In baboon, several changes in sperm surface occur during epididymal passage. These changes include increased staining of band that was observed with the WGA binding glycoproteins of 140, 80, 52, and 46 kDa; Con A bands of 66, 37, and 26 kDa; and the PNA binding glycoprotein of 114 kDa. A second change was the loss of preexisting band that was observed with RCA binding glycoproteins of 120, 80, 58, 53, 46, and 37 kDa; and the Con A band of 80 kDa. A final change was noted with Con A binding in which six bands of 8, 9, 12, 14, 18, and 21 kDa were added as the sperm matured through the cauda epididymis. These findings present new information on the changes in distribution of surface glycoproteins in baboon sperm during epididymal passage. There was some reorganization of the molecular structure of the sperm during epididymal maturation.
Are there inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) receptors in human sperm?	Calcium signaling plays important roles in mammalian fertilization, such as the calcium wave in egg and the acrosome reaction (AR) in sperm. The calcium wave is accompanied by a transient increase of cytosolic calcium, which is mediated by inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) induced calcium release (IICR). During AR, it is commonly recognized that influx of extracellular calcium causes a dramatic increase of cytosolic calcium. Participation of IICR in the phenomena, however, remains unclear. To investigate whether IICR also participates in calcium mobilization during AR, the present study examined the existence of the IP3 receptor family (IP3R type 1, 2 and 3) in human sperm and their changes during the reaction. Immunoblot analyses showed the existence of IP3R types 1 and 3 in human sperm, but IP3R type 2 was undetectable. The expression of IP3R type 1 was diminished after AR and was also detected in the vesiculated membrane fragment which was released by the fusion of the plasma membrane and the outer acrosomal membrane during AR. In contrast, the expression of IP3R type 3 on the blot was similar before and after the reaction. Immunohistochemical observations suggested that IP3R type 1 localized in the anterior portion of the sperm head and the expression was decreased after AR. IP3R type 3 was observed in the posterior portion of the sperm head, midpiece, and tail, and little change was found even after AR. The [3H]-IP3 binding assay suggested stoichiometric interactions between IP3 and IP3Rs of non-acrosome reacted and acrosome reacted human sperm.
Complement component 1 inhibitor (C1-INH) like protein on murine spermatozoa: anti-C1-INH inhibits in vitro fertilization.	We investigated if complement component 1 inhibitor-like (C1-INH-L) protein found on human spermatozoa exists on mouse spermatozoa and is relevant to reproduction. We used Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence assays to detect C1-INH on murine sperm and tested the effects of the antibodies to C1-INH and albumin (negative control) on in vitro mouse sperm motility and fertilization. C1-INH-L, with molecular weight similar to human C1-INH (100 kDa), was present on the surface of spermatozoan head and midpiece. Treating mouse sperm with anti-C1-INH reduced the mouse sperm motility (P < 0.01), in vitro fertilization (P < 0.01) and embryo development rates (P < 0.01). Anti-albumin failed to do so. We conclude that C1-inhibitor-like protein is present on mouse sperm surface and appears to be relevant to reproduction.
CD8-like molecules on human spermatozoa.	The object of the present study was to investigate whether there were differences in the presence of CD8-like molecules on human ejaculated spermatozoa from fertile donors and subfertile patients (with leucocytospermia). In our previous report we defined CD4-like molecule heterogeneity on normozoospermic and globozoospermic human spermatozoa. In this investigation the results from indirect and absorption ELISA, as well as the indirect IEM and IIF findings, demonstrated the presence of CD8 immunopositive spermatozoa in all samples studied. The ELISA data showed that anti-human MoAb CD8 recognized an epitope common to the human spermatozoa with normal morphology and foetal thymocytes. During absorption experiments MoAb CD8 was preincubated with spermatozoa and allowed to react with thymocytes. A significant decrease of the reactivity was obtained for MoAb CD8 by ELISA. Localization of the antigenic determinants, identified by MoAb CD8, in the acrosomal region, in the neck and on the sperm-tail plasma membrane was defined in normozoospermic samples. Similar in localization but different in intensity, CD8-like sperm immunoreactivity was found in leucocytospermic samples in comparison to normozoospermic samples. The obtained results proved the heterogeneity in the presence, localization and expression of CD-like antigen determinants on human spermatozoa and enlarged the information about CD8-like antigen characteristics of the spermatozoa from fertile donors and subfertile patients.
Androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) and estrogen receptor-beta (ER-beta) expression in the testis of the newt, Triturus marmoratus marmoratus during the annual cycle.	Expression of androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) and estrogen receptor beta (ER-beta) in the testis of the marbled newt (Triturus marmoratus marmoratus) was investigated, with special attention to changes during the annual testicular cycle, using light microscopy immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. Primordial germ cells, primary and secondary spermatogonia and spermatocytes showed a positive reaction to the 3 receptor antibodies during the annual reproductive cycle. Follicular cells were positive to AR, ER-alpha and ER-beta during the spermiogenesis and quiescence periods in the glandular tissue. Interstitial cells showed reactivity to AR, ER-alpha and ER-beta in the spermiogenesis and the quiescence periods, and presented no labelling to these receptors in the proliferative period. These findings suggest that, as in mammals, there is an androgen-estrogen regulation of the function and development of the newt testis.
Partial amino acid sequencing of 80-kDa human sperm antigen (80-kDa HSA).	An 80-kDa human sperm antigen (80-kDa HSA) has been identified as a sperm protein responsible for inducing immunoinfertility. Immunization with the purified protein induced infertility in male and female rats. Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent studies have demonstrated that the antigen is specific to spermatozoa. The present study describes the partial amino acid sequencing of 80-kDa HSA. The homogeneous protein was electrophoretically transferred onto a PVDF membrane and the excised band of 80-kDa HSA was used to determine the partial N-terminal amino acid sequence. The protein was then subjected to enzymatic digestion with endoproteinase Lys-C and endoproteinase Glu-C. The partial amino acid sequence of the major peptides thus obtained was determined. The digestion with endoproteinase Lys-C generated 4 major peptides, two of which showed partial sequence homology with lactoferrin. Endoproteinase Glu-C digestion produced 3 major peptides. The sequences of the 2 peptides were determined for which no matches were found in the databank. These results confirmed earlier observations that 80-kDa HSA is a sperm-specific protein that is chemically distinct from any other protein involved in normal physiological process. Earlier studies have demonstrated that it is antigenic, efficacious, conserved, and could be a promising candidate for the development of an antifertility vaccine.
Protamine mRNA as molecular marker for spermatozoa in semen stains.	Cytological detection of spermatozoa with subsequent DNA analysis is the most important biological evidence in sexual crimes when suitable samples are available. Immunological and enzymatic detection of semen-specific proteins may be helpful but cannot replace specific identification of spermatozoa. We have recently shown that detection of cell-specific gene expression can be used to identify menstrual blood. In this paper we demonstrate that the basic nucleoproteins protamine 1 and 2 are suitable markers for spermatozoa because they are exclusively expressed in the haploid genome and that protamine mRNA can be detected in semen stains by the highly sensitive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). With semi-nested PCR, 10-100 spermatozoa are theoretically sufficient to provide positive amplification results, with hot-start PCR at least 100-1,000 cells are required corresponding to an average semen volume of 0.01-0.1 microl. This new method thus allows specific identification of spermatozoa with molecular biology tools and may broaden the spectrum of investigations in the forensic laboratory.
Alpha 6 beta 1 Integrin is a potential clinical marker for evaluating sperm quality in men.	To determine the clinical significance of alpha6beta1 integrin in human spermatozoa.
Identification of human sperm proteins involved in the interaction with homologous zona pellucida.	To identify human sperm proteins involved in homologous zona pellucida (ZP) interaction.
Monoclonal antibodies to epididymis-specific proteins using mice rendered immune tolerant to testicular proteins.	Monoclonal antibodies (mabs) have been used as a powerful tool for identification of newer sperm proteins. However, conventional hybridoma technology rarely provides chance to obtain mabs to epididymal proteins. To increase this chance, we have used an alternate method of neonatal tolerization. In this protocol, animals were tolerized at birth using testicular proteins followed by immunization with cauda epididymal sperm protein (which is a cocktail of proteins both from testicular and epididymal origin). This protocol induced a specific immune response to epididymal sperm proteins. Spleen from one of these animals was then used for preparation of mabs. This fusion resulted in a number of mabs reacting specifically to epididymal proteins. Although mabs identified a protein of approximately similar molecular weight on 1-dimensional Western blot analysis, there were differences in regional localization on rat sperm as seen by indirect immunofluorescence. Immunohistochemical localization of these proteins in rat epididymis showed region specific synthesis. The synthesis of proteins was seen in the distal caput epididymis, and maximum expression was seen in supranuclear region of corpus epithelium. The proteins were localized on sperm from corpus and cauda region. Epididymis specific synthesis of the proteins and agglutinating nature of the mabs to these underlines the functional importance of these proteins in sperm maturation in epididymis. These antibodies could therefore, be used as tools for understanding the physiology of maturation of sperm in epididymis and role of the epididymal protein in fertilization.
Identification of a large novel imprinted gene cluster on mouse proximal chromosome 6.	Mice with maternal duplication of proximal chromosome 6 die in utero at an early embryonic stage. Recently, two imprinted genes, paternally expressed Sgce and maternally expressed Asb4, were identified in this region. This report analyzes the imprinting status of genes within a 1-Mb region containing these two genes. Peg10, which is next to Sgce, shows complete paternal expression, like Sgce. Conversely, Neurabin, Pon2, and Pon3 show preferential maternal expression at embryonic stages, although they all show biallelic expression in neonatal tissues. These results demonstrate that there is a large novel imprinted gene cluster in this region. 5'-RACE (Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends) analysis of Peg10 revealed the existence of a novel first exon separate from the second exon, which encoded two putative ORFs similar to the viral Gag and Pol proteins. A differentially methylated region established in sperm and eggs is located just within the region containing the two first exons of Peg10 and Sgce, and may play an important role in regulating the two paternally expressed genes: Peg10 and Sgce.
Phospholipase C-dependent Ca2+ release by worm and mammal sperm factors.	Egg activation in all animals evidently requires the synthesis of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP(3)) from phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) by phospholipase C (PLC). Depending on the organism, InsP(3) elicits either calcium oscillations or a single wave, which in turn initiates development. A soluble component in boar sperm that activates mammalian eggs has been suggested to be a PLC isoform. We tested this hypothesis in vitro using egg microsomes of Chaetopterus. Boar sperm factor elicited Ca(2+) release from the microsomes by an InsP(3)-dependent mechanism. The PLC inhibitor U-73122, but not its inactive analog U-73343, blocked the response to sperm factor but not to InsP(3). U-73122 also inhibited the activation of fertilized and parthenogenetic eggs. Chaetopterus sperm also contained a similar activity. These results strongly support the hypothesis that sperm PLCs are ubiquitous mediators of egg activation at fertilization.
Platinum(II)-based coordination compounds as nucleic acid labeling reagents: synthesis, reactivity, and applications in hybridization assays.	The synthesis, characterization, and molecular interactions of platinum(II) coordination compounds, which contain a distal nonradioactive reporter molecule, with mono- and polynucleotides are described. A [Pt(II)(en)(NH(2)(CH(2))(6)NH-tBoc)Cl](NO(3)) (en=ethylenediamine) entity has been coupled, after removal of the tBoc group, to a number of hapten and fluorophore molecules through succinimide derivatives. The influence of the various tethered reporter groups within these complexes on the reactivity towards guanosine 5'-monophosphate (5'-GMP), as a model for polynucleotide sequences, was investigated to shed light on the use of these reagents in hybridization assays. Reactivity turned out to be strongly dictated by the chemical nature of the distal reporter molecule present. At pH 7.0 the sequence of reactivity is cationic approximately aromatic (stacking) > neutral > anionic; there is approximately an order of magnitude difference between the fastest reacting complex (k=10.2 x 10(-2) M(-1) s(-1)) and the slowest reacting complex (k=0.93 x 10(-2) M(-1) s(-1)) under these conditions. Platination of an oligodeoxynucleotide (30-mer), dsDNA, or an RNA transcript, shows that a Pt/nucleotide ratio between 1:10 and 1:20 (established by using flameless atomic absorption spectroscopy) results in probes with excellent hybridization characteristics. In terms of applicability and detection limits these platinated nucleic acid probes perform equally well compared to conventionally generated nucleic acid probes, that is, through enzymatic incorporation of covalently labeled nucleotide triphosphates. Applications of these reagents to in situ hybridization assays and gene expression profiling on microarrays illustrate the potential of these monofunctional binding platinum triamine compounds.
Differential signalling for enhanced hexose uptake by interleukin (IL)-3 and IL-5 in male germ cells.	We studied the expression and function of the IL (interleukin)-3 and IL-5 family of receptors in male germ cells. RT (reverse transcription)-PCR showed expression of mRNAs encoding the alpha and beta subunits of the IL-3 and IL-5 receptors in human testis, and the presence of IL-3 and IL-5 receptors alpha and beta proteins was confirmed by immunoblotting with anti-alpha and anti-beta antibodies. The immunolocalization studies showed expression of these receptors in the germ line in the human testis and in human and bovine ejaculated spermatozoa. Functional studies with bull spermatozoa indicated that IL-3 signalled for increased uptake of hexoses in these cells at picomolar concentrations compatible with expression of functional high-affinity IL-3 receptors in these cells. In contrast, IL-5 failed to induce increased hexose uptake in bull spermatozoa. Experiments using HL-60 eosinophils that express functional IL-3 and IL-5 receptors confirmed that IL-3, but not IL-5, signalled for increased hexose uptake. Our findings suggest that differential signalling for increased hexose uptake by heteromeric high-affinity IL-3 and IL-5 receptors in mammalian spermatozoa is a property that depends on the identity of the alpha-subunit forming part of the alphabeta-complex and is not a property specific to the germ cells.
Localization of CD9 in pig oocytes and its effects on sperm-egg interaction.	CD9 is a cell surface protein that participates in many cellular processes, such as cell adhesion. Fertilization involves sperm and oocyte interactions including sperm binding to oocytes and sperm-oocyte fusion. Thus CD9 may play an essential role during fertilization in mammals. The present study was conducted to examine whether CD9 is present in porcine gametes and whether it participates in the regulation of sperm-oocyte interactions. The presence of CD9 in ovarian tissues, oocytes and spermatozoa was examined by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and immunoblotting. Sperm binding and penetration of oocytes treated with CD9 antibody were examined by in vitro fertilization. The results showed that CD9 was present on the plasma membrane of oocytes at different developmental stages. A 24 kDa protein was found in oocytes during in vitro maturation by immunoblotting and its quantity was significantly (P < 0.001) increased as oocytes underwent maturation and reached the highest level after the oocytes had been cultured for 44 h. No positive CD9 staining was found in the spermatozoa. Both sperm binding to ooplasma and sperm penetration into oocytes were significantly (P < 0.01) reduced in anti-CD9 antibody-treated oocytes (1.2 +/- 0.2 per oocyte and 16.6% respectively) as compared with oocytes in the controls (2.5 +/- 0.4 per oocyte and 70.3% respectively). These results indicated that CD9 is expressed in pig oocytes during early growth and meiotic maturation and that it participates in sperm-oocyte interactions during fertilization.
Expression and significance of Rap1A in testes of azoospermic subjects.	To evaluate the Rap1A mRNA expression and its significance in the testes of normal and azoospermic subjects.
Meiotic recombination hot spots and human DNA diversity.	Meiotic recombination plays a key role in the maintenance of sequence diversity in the human genome. However, little is known about the fine-scale distribution and processes of recombination in human chromosomes, or how these impact on patterns of human diversity. We have therefore developed sperm typing systems that allow human recombination to be analysed at very high resolution. The emerging picture is that human crossovers are far from randomly distributed but instead are targeted into very narrow hot spots that can profoundly influence patterns of haplotype diversity in the human genome. These hot spots provide fundamental information on processes of human crossover and gene conversion, as well as evidence that they can violate basic rules of Mendelian inheritance.
Absence of Fas protein detection by flow cytometry in human spermatozoa.	To investigate the expression of Fas protein on the surface of ejaculated spermatozoa of normozoospermic and nonnormozoospermic men.
Relationship between mycoplasma infection and germ cell sulfogalactosylglycerolipid]	It is well known that mycoplasma can cause infection in the male reproductive tract. Some studies indicate that Ureaplasma urealyticum (Uu), a species of mycoplasma, is associated with male infertility. Sulfogalactosylglycerolipid(SGG) is the major mammalian male germ cell glycolipid, synthesized via sulfation of galactosylglycerolipid in early primary spermatocytes. Some experiments have proved that SGG is implicated in sperm-egg binding by linking arylsulfatase A (AS-A), SGG's ligand on the egg. SGG can be desulfated by binding mycoplasmas and transformed galactosylglycerolipid, which doesn't bind AS-A. So the binding and degradation of the sperm SGG by mycoplasmas may play a role in the induction of male infertility. As a kind of mycoplasma, Uu can also bind SGG, which offers another explantion for the association of Uu infection with male infertility caused by Uu infection.
Influence of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) on the zinc content and redox state of protein-bound sulphydryl groups in rat sperm: indications for a new role of MIF in sperm maturation.	The function of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) in sperm maturation was studied by investigating its role in the biochemical maturation of the outer dense fibres. Rat sperm obtained from the caput and cauda epididymis were stimulated overnight with either recombinant MIF or MIF-containing vesicles originating from epididymal fluid at various concentrations. The zinc content of both the sperm and the medium was determined by means of atomic absorption spectrometry. Incubation in both recombinant MIF and vesicular MIF resulted in a statistically significant decrease of the zinc content in stimulated caput sperm of approximately 50%. In parallel, the conditioned media showed a clear increase in the concentration of this trace metal. The effect of MIF was less marked in cauda sperm. In addition, we demonstrated a statistically significant increase of detectable free thiol groups in the sperm mid- and principle piece in isolated rat sperm after stimulation with MIF at concentrations of 25 and 50 ng/ml. Our data suggest that MIF plays an important role in the maturation process of rat sperm during epididymal transit by inducing the elimination of zinc and affecting the amount of free sulphydryl groups in the sperm flagella.
High resolution DNA flow cytometry of boar sperm cells in identification of boars carrying cytogenetic aberrations.	The cytogenetic quality of boars used for breeding determines the litter outcome and thus has large economical consequences. Traditionally, quality controls based on the examination of simple karyograms are time consuming and sometimes give uncertain results. As an alternative, the use of high-resolution DNA flow cytometry on DAPI-stained sperm cell nuclei (CV </= 1.3%) was investigated as a screening method for the cytogenetic quality of boars. By analyzing a series of 25 animals judged normal by their fertility statistics and a series of seven animals with known reciprocal translocations, a model for identifying sperm cells from cytogenetically aberrant animals was proposed. This model was applied to a series of 50 uncharacterized animals. The model successfully identified a mosaic or chimaeric carrier of an aberrant X chromosome. However, implementation of this technique for screening purposes would necessitate essential improvements in standardization and measurement precision.
Decrease in glutathione content in boar sperm after cryopreservation. Effect of the addition of reduced glutathione to the freezing and thawing extenders.	Although glutathione content in boar spermatozoa has been previously reported, the effect of reduced glutathione (GSH) on semen parameters and the fertilizing ability of boar spermatozoa after cryopreservation has never been evaluated. In this study, GSH content was determined in ejaculated boar spermatozoa before and after cryopreservation. Semen samples were centrifuged and GSH content in the resulting pellet monitored spectrophotometrically. The fertilizing ability of frozen-thawed boar sperm was also tested in vitro by incubating sperm with in vitro matured oocytes obtained from gilts. GSH content in fresh semen was 3.84 +/- 0.21 nM GSH/10(8) sperm. Following semen cryopreservation, there was a 32% decrease in GSH content (P < 0.0001). There were significant differences in sperm GSH content between different boars and after various preservation protocols (P = 0.0102 ). The effect of addition of GSH to the freezing and thawing extenders was also evaluated. Addition of 5 mM GSH to the freezing extender did not have a significant effect on standard semen parameters or sperm fertilizing ability after thawing. In contrast, when GSH was added to the thawing extender, a dose-dependent tendency to increase in sperm fertilizing ability was observed, although no differences were observed in standard semen parameters. In summary, (i) there was a loss in GSH content after cryopreservation of boar semen; (ii) addition of GSH to the freezing extender did not result in any improvement in either standard semen parameters or sperm fertilizing ability; and (iii) addition of GSH to the thawing extender resulted in a significant increase in sperm fertilizing ability. Nevertheless, future studies must conclude if this is the case for all boars. Furthermore, since addition of GSH to the thawing extender did not result in an improvement in standard semen parameters, this suggests that during the thawing process, GSH prevents damage of a sperm property that is critical in the fertilization process but that is not measured in the routine semen analysis.
Influence of DNA adsorption and DNA/cationic surfactant coadsorption on the interaction forces between hydrophobic surfaces.	The forces between hydrophobic surfaces with physisorbed DNA are markedly and irreversibly altered by exposure to DNA/cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) mixtures. In this colloidal probe atomic force microscopy study of the interactions between a hydrophobic polystyrene particle and an octadecyltrimethylethoxysilane-modified mica surface in sodium bromide solutions, we measure distinct changes in colloidal forces depending on the existence and state of an adsorbed layer of DNA or CTAB-DNA complexes. For bare hydrophobic surfaces, a monotonically attractive approach curve and very large adhesion are observed. When DNA is adsorbed at low bulk concentrations, a long-range repulsive force dominates the approach, but on retraction some adhesion persists and DNA bridging is clearly observed. When the DNA solution is replaced with a CTAB-DNA mixture at relative low CTAB concentration, the length scale of the repulsive force decreases, the adhesion due to hydrophobic interactions greatly decreases, and bridging events disappear. Finally, when the surface is rinsed with NaBr solution, the length scale of the repulsive interaction increases modestly, and only a very tiny adhesion remains. These pronounced changes in the force behavior are consistent with CTAB-induced DNA compaction accompanied by increased DNA adsorption, both of which are partially irreversible.
Preparation and application of cysteine-capped ZnS nanoparticles as fluorescence probe in the determination of nucleic acids.	Cysteine-capped ZnS nanometer-sized fluorescent particles were produced by a colloidal aqueous synthesis. The functionalized nanoparticles are water-soluble and suitable for biological application. A synchronous fluorescence method has been developed for the rapid determination of DNA with functionalized nano-ZnS as a fluorescence probe, based on the synchronous fluorescence enhancement of cysteine-capped nano-ZnS in the presence of DNA. When Deltalambda =190 nm, maximum synchronous fluorescence is produced at 267 nm at pH 5.12. Under optimum conditions, the synchronous fluorescence intensity is proportional to the concentration of nucleic acids in the range 0.1-1.2 microg ml(-1) for calf thymus DNA, 0.1-0.6 microg ml(-1) for fish sperm DNA. The corresponding detection limit is 32.9 ng ml(-1) for calf thymus DNA and 24.6 ng ml(-1) for fish sperm DNA. This method is simple, inexpensive, rapid and sensitive. The recovery and relative standard deviation are satisfactory.
Boar sperm storage capacity of BTS and Androhep Plus: viability, motility, capacitation, and tyrosine phosphorylation.	Androhep Plus, a long-term extender (up to 7 days) and Beltsville Thawing Solution (BTS), a short-term extender (up to 3 days), are commonly used for liquid storage of porcine semen. To test the hypothesis that modifications in sperm viability, motility, chlortetracycline (CTC) fluorescence patterns, and protein tyrosine phosphorylation occur during semen storage in extenders, we compared these end points at different periods of storage in either Androhep Plus or BTS. Sperm from five boars were assessed daily over 12 days of storage (n = 5 ejaculates from different boars). Viability was not different (P < 0.05 between extenders, except on Day 2, when Androhep Plus maintained better viability. Differences in the percentage of motile (total) sperm due to extender were evident on Days 2, 4, 5, and 6, when Androhep Plus was superior to BTS (P < 0.05). The percentages of progressively motile sperm also differed, with Androhep Plus supporting higher rates on Days 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 (P < 0.05). The CTC fluorescence pattern distribution differed due to extender as early as Day 2; storage in Androhep Plus induced higher levels of pattern B sperm (P < 0.05) than storage in BTS. A tyrosine-phosphorylated protein of Mr 21,000 appeared after 10 days in sperm incubated in BTS, and was identified as a phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase. Therefore, modifications in viability, motility, CTC fluorescence patterns, and sperm protein tyrosine phosphorylation were apparent during sperm storage in extenders; these may affect the fertilizing capacity of the semen.
The murine interleukin-4 receptor gene: genomic structure, expression and potential for alternative splicing.	The structure of the murine interleukin-4 receptor (mIL-4R) gene has been determined. The gene spans approximately 25 kilobases (kb) of DNA and is composed of 12 exons interrupted by 11 introns. The gene contains sequences accounting for all the sequences present in the functional mIL-4R cDNAs, including several exons which can encode DNA inserts found in recently cloned IL-4R cDNA variants. Thus expression of the gene may be regulated, at least in part, by alternative splicing. A combination of S1 nuclease protection and primer extension assays was used to localize the 5' end of the gene and demonstrated the use of multiple transcription initiation sites within this region. We have found that the overall intron-exon organization of the murine IL-4R gene is markedly similar to that of the murine erythropoietin receptor (m-epoR) and the human interleukin-2 receptor beta chain (hIL-2R beta), as well as the human growth hormone receptor (hGhR). This is consistent with the recent grouping of these receptors, on the basis of protein sequence homology, into the hematopoietin receptor gene superfamily. Such homology at the levels of both protein and gene structure suggest a divergent evolution of the receptors from a single primordial gene.
Coexistence of intracellular and membrane-bound progesterone receptors in human testis.	Progesterone and progesterone receptors (PR) play a crucial role in female reproduction, but their roles in male reproductive physiology are largely unknown. Our previous studies demonstrated the presence of a specific membrane-bound PR in mature human spermatozoa that is known to regulate important sperm functions. The present study was undertaken to determine whether there exist PR in human testis and to investigate their molecular characteristics and expression profiles. PR mRNA and protein were detected in the spermatogenic cells, Sertoli cells, and occasionally the Leydig cells. PR protein was localized in nucleus and cytoplasm of spermatogonia, primary and secondary spermatocytes, and round spermatids in a stage-specific manner. Intense PR localization was observed in stages IV and V, whereas it was low at stages I, II, and III of spermatogenesis. RT-PCR studies revealed the presence of transcripts for PR in human testis and spermatogenic cells. In accordance with the reported molecular sizes of the known isoforms of PR, two mRNA transcripts of 3.8 and 2.8 kb for PR in adult human testis and spermatogenic cell RNA were detected by Northern blot hybridization. Western blot analysis of testicular and spermatogenic cell lysates revealed two bands of 120 and 90 kDa, corresponding to the conventional PR. In these tissue lysates, an additional band of approximately 55 kDa was detected that was also observed as a single band in sperm lysates, indicating that this smaller protein may correspond to the membrane-bound PR. The membrane-bound PR protein was demonstrated on the spermatogenic cells when probed with progesterone-bound fluorescein conjugate. The results of the present study demonstrate the existence of both intracellular PR-B and PR-A mRNA and protein in the spermatogenic cells of the human testis. A membrane-bound PR was also localized in these cells. The varying levels of intracellular PR during different stages of spermatogenesis and the presence of the membrane-bound PR imply the significance of progesterone in male reproductive events such as regulation of spermatogenesis.
alpha-SNAP and NSF are required in a priming step during the human sperm acrosome reaction.	The acrosome is a membrane-limited granule that overlies the nucleus of the mature spermatozoon. In response to physiological or pharmacological stimuli it undergoes a special type of Ca2+-dependent exocytosis termed the acrosome reaction (AR), which is an absolute prerequisite for fertilization. Aided by a streptolysin-O permeabilization protocol developed in our laboratory, we have previously demonstrated requirements for Rab3A, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF), several soluble NSF-attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins, and synaptotagmin VI in the human sperm AR. Here, we show that alpha-soluble NSF-attachment protein (alpha-SNAP), a protein essential for most fusion events through its interaction with NSF and the SNARE complex, exhibits a direct role in the AR. First, the presence of alpha-SNAP is demonstrated by the Western blot of human sperm protein extracts. Immunostaining experiments reveal an acrosomal localization for this protein. Second, the Ca2+ and Rab3A-triggered ARs are inhibited by anti-alpha-SNAP antibodies. Third, bacterially expressed alpha-SNAP abolishes exocytosis in a fashion that depends on its interaction with NSF. Fourth, we show a requirement for alpha-SNAP/NSF in a prefusion step early in the exocytotic pathway, after the tethering of the acrosome to the plasma membrane and before the efflux of intra-acrosomal Ca2+. These results suggest a key role for alpha-SNAP/NSF in the AR, and strengthen our understanding of the molecular players involved in the vesicle-to-plasma membrane fusion taking place during exocytosis.
Novel role for a sterol response element binding protein in directing spermatogenic cell-specific gene expression.	Sperm are highly specialized cells, and their formation requires the synthesis of a large number of unique mRNAs. However, little is known about the transcriptional mechanisms that direct male germ cell differentiation. Sterol response element binding protein 2gc (SREBP2gc) is a spermatogenic cell-enriched isoform of the ubiquitous transcription factor SREBP2, which in somatic cells is required for homeostatic regulation of cholesterol. SREBP2gc is selectively enriched in spermatocytes and spermatids, and, due to its novel structure, its synthesis is not subject to cholesterol feedback control. This suggested that SREBP2gc has unique cell- and stage-specific functions during spermatogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that this factor activates the promoter for the spermatogenesis-related gene proacrosin in a cell-specific manner. Multiple SREBP2gc response elements were identified within the 5'-flanking and proximal promoter regions of the proacrosin promoter. Mutating these elements greatly diminished in vivo expression of this promoter in spermatogenic cells of transgenic mice. These studies define a totally new function for an SREBP as a transactivator of male germ cell-specific gene expression. We propose that SREBP2gc is part of a cadre of spermatogenic cell-enriched isoforms of ubiquitously expressed transcriptional coregulators that were specifically adapted in concert to direct differentiation of the male germ cell lineage.
The protein encoded by cancer/testis gene D40/AF15q14 is localized in spermatocytes, acrosomes of spermatids and ejaculated spermatozoa.	We have previously identified and cloned a human gene, D40, that is preferentially expressed in testis among normal organs, while it is widely expressed in various human tumor cell lines and primary tumors derived from different organs. In this report, we have examined the expression and localization of this protein in human testis with an antibody specific to D40 protein. In Western analyses, the anti-D40 antibody recognized a major band with a molecular mass of 300 kDa and a minor band of 250 kDa. These bands were not observed in the testis lysates from patients with Sertoli-cell-only syndrome and with Kleinfelter syndrome, who lack germ cells of the testis, indicating that D40 protein is expressed in the germ cells of normal testis. Immunohistochemical studies have revealed that D40 protein is highly expressed in spermatocytes and in the pre-acrosome of round spermatids. In the acrosome, D40 protein expression is observed not inside but outside the acrosome membrane. This is consistent with the finding that the amino-acid sequence at the amino terminal of the D40 protein lacks a hydrophobic signal peptide that is required for proteins to translocate to the membrane. Expression of D40 protein is observed in the acrosome of ejaculated spermatozoa as well, although the level is low compared with that in the pre-acrosome of spermatids. These results suggest that D40 protein plays important roles in spermatogenesis, especially in the formation and maintenance of the acrosome.
Absence of Dp71 in mdx3cv mouse spermatozoa alters flagellar morphology and the distribution of ion channels and nNOS.	In muscle, the absence of dystrophin alters the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC), which is involved in the clustering and anchoring of signaling proteins and ion and water channels. Here we show that mice spermatozoa express only dystrophin Dp71 and utrophin Up71. The purpose of this study was to explore the effect of the absence of Dp71 on the morphology and membrane distribution of members of the DAPC, ion channels and signaling proteins of spermatozoa obtained from dystrophic mutant mdx3cv mice. Our work indicates that although the absence of Dp71 results in a dramatic decrease in beta-dystroglycan, it induces membrane redistribution and an increase in the total level of alpha-syntrophin, voltage-dependent Na+ (micro1) and K+ (Kv1.1) channels and neural nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). The short utrophin (Up71) was upregulated and redistributed in the spermatozoa of mdx3cv mice. A significant increase in abnormal flagella morphology was observed in the absence of Dp71, which was partially corrected when the plasma membrane was eliminated by detergent treatment. Our observations point to a new phenotype associated with the absence of Dp71. Abnormal flagellar structure and altered distribution of ion channels and signaling proteins may be responsible for the fertility problems of mdx3cv mice.
Expression and subcellular localization of the mu-opioid receptor in equine spermatozoa: evidence for its functional role.	The development of fertilizing ability in sperm cells is associated with changes in the plasma membrane. However, to date the exact nature of sequentially activated primary receptors and channels and the signal transduction pathways derived from these remains elusive. We analyzed the expression and localization of the mu-opioid receptor in equine spermatozoa. A transcript corresponding to the third extracellular loop that selectively binds mu agonists was amplified, sequenced and compared with the known sequences in humans, rats and cattle. The amplification product showed a high degree of nucleotide conservation. By immunofluorescence, mu-opioid receptor labeling was found on the sperm head and on the tail and disappeared in the acrosomal region of acrosome-reacted sperm cells. Immunoblotting revealed two bands of 50 and 65 kDa. Effects of the opioid antagonist naloxone on motility and on viability and capacitation/acrosome reaction were investigated by computer-assisted sperm analysis and Hoechst 33258/chlortetracycline (H258/CTC) staining. Progressive motility was significantly reduced after 3 h incubation in 10(-3) M naloxone (P <0.05), whereas it increased significantly after 5 h in 10(-8) M naloxone (P <0.05). Sperm velocity at 5 h was significantly reduced by the addition of 10(-3) M naloxone (P <0.05), but increased significantly in the presence of 10(-8) M (P <0.001). Curvilinear velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement in spermatozoa incubated in the presence of naloxone were not indicative of hyperactivation. H258/CTC staining showed that 10(-8) M naloxone significantly stimulated capacitation (P <0.01) after 3 h. However, it had no effect on sperm cell viability and acrosomal status. Overall, this study provides the first evidence that the mu-opioid receptor is expressed in equine spermatozoa and that naloxone significantly affects motility and capacitation.
Reproductive performance, blood testosterone, lipid peroxidation and seminal plasma biochemistry of rabbits as affected by feeding Acacia saligna under subtropical conditions.	Thirty-two New Zealand White growing rabbits (eight-week old) were used to determine the effect of feeding acacia-based diets on semen characteristics, plasma testosterone, free radicals, seminal plasma enzymes and lipids. Rabbits were randomly assigned to four equal groups. The first group (control) was fed a basal diet only, and the other three groups were fed other three diets, as follows: 80% of basal diet+20% of acacia leaves (low), 60% of basal diet+40% of acacia leaves (medium) and 40% of basal diet+60% of acacia leaves (high), respectively for 32 week. Semen samples were collected throughout the last 12 week of the experimental period. Rabbits fed on different levels of Acacia showed no significant changes in libido (reaction time), ejaculate volume, sperm concentration, packed sperm volume and initial hydrogen ion concentration compared to control. However, low and/or medium levels of Acacia caused significant (P<0.05) increase in total sperm output (TSO), sperm motility (%), total motile sperm per ejaculate (TMS), normal sperm, total functional sperm fraction (TFSF), semen initial fructose, live sperm and plasma testosterone. On the other hand, high level of Acacia did not show any significant change in TSO, sperm motility (%), TMS, initial fructose, TFSF or testosterone, while live and normal sperm decreased. All levels of Acacia caused a significant decrease in the concentrations of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and an increase in the activity of glutathione S-transferease. The activities of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aminotransferases and phosphatases were significantly increased in seminal plasma of animals fed low or medium levels of Acacia. Seminal plasma total lipid, triglyceride, low density lipoprotein and free fatty acids were significantly (P<0.05) decreased in low or medium levels of Acacia. On the other hand, total cholesterol, percentage cholesterol (out of total lipids) and high density lipoprotein were significantly (P<0.05) increased in seminal plasma of rabbits fed on low or medium levels of Acacia. High level of Acacia did not cause any changes in the previous parameters. It can be concluded that up to 40% Acacia leaves could be used successfully and safely in the diet of rabbits without adversely affecting their reproductive performance under subtropical conditions.
Flow cytometric evaluation of sperm parameters in relation to fertility potential.	Most laboratory methods used to evaluate semen quality have not correlated highly with fertilizing capacity. The discovery of a variety of fluorochromes and compounds conjugated to fluorescent probes has enabled a more widespread analysis of sperm attributes, and in conjunction with the flow cytometer, permit the evaluation of a large number of spermatozoa. A number of characteristics of sperm integrity, viability and function can be assessed by flow cytometry. The DNA status of spermatozoa has been determined using the metachromatic properties of acridine orange (AO). AO staining, when used in the sperm chromatin structure assay (SCSA), correlates with fertility in a number of species. DNA fragmentation can also be assessed using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, which identifies DNA strand breaks by labeling free 3'-OH termini with modified nucleotides. The status of the sperm acrosome can be determined using fluorescently labeled lectins and LysoTracker Green DND-26, a fluorescent acidotropic probe. Capacitation status has been observed through calcium-mediated changes using chlortetracycline (CTC) or by changes in membrane fluidity monitored by the binding of the fluorescent amphiphilic probe, Merocyanine 540. Fluorescently labeled annexin-V, C6NBD and Ro-09-0198 can also be used to detect changes in membrane phospholipid distribution. Cell viability can be determined using the propensity of propidium iodide (PI), ethidium homodimer-1 (EthD-1) or Yo-Pro-1 to permeate damaged membranes. These are generally more adaptable to clinical flow cytometry than the bisbenzimide membrane impermeable stain, Hoechst 33258, which excites in the ultraviolet range and requires UV laser equipment. Mitochondrial function can be determined using rhodamine 123 (R123) and MitoTracker Green FM (MITO) and 5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolyl-carbocyanine iodide (JC-1). Flow cytometry is a tool that may be used in the future to monitor many new potential markers of sperm function.
New assays for detection and localization of endogenous lipid peroxidation products in living boar sperm after BTS dilution or after freeze-thawing.	Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in sperm aberrations causing multiple pathologies including sub- and infertility. Freeze/thawing of sperm samples is routinely performed in the cattle breeding industries for semen storage prior to artificial insemination but unusual in porcine breeding industries as semen dilution and storage at 17 degrees C is sufficient for artificial insemination within 2-3 days. However, longer semen storage requires cryopreservation of boar semen. Freeze/thawing procedures induce sperm damage and induce reactive oxygen species in mammalian sperm and boar sperm seems to be more vulnerable for this than bull sperm. We developed a new method to detect reactive oxygen species induced damage at the level of the sperm plasma membrane in bull sperm. Lipid peroxidation in freshly stored and frozen/thawed sperm cells was assessed by mass spectrometric analysis of the main endogenous lipid classes, phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol and by fluorescence techniques using the lipid peroxidation reporter probe C11-BODIPY(581/591). Peroxidation as reported by the fluorescent probe, clearly corresponded with the presence of hydroxy- and hydroperoxyphosphatidylcholine in the sperm membranes, which are early stage products of lipid peroxidation. This allowed us, for the first time, to correlate endogenous lipid peroxidation with localization of this process in the living sperm cells. Cytoplasmatic droplets in incompletely matured sperm cells were intensely peroxidized. Furthermore, lipid peroxidation was particularly strong in the mid-piece and tail of frozen/thawed spermatozoa and significantly less intense in the sperm head. Induction of peroxidation in fresh sperm cells with the lipid soluble reactive oxygen species tert-butylhydroperoxide gave an even more pronounced effect, demonstrating antioxidant activity in the head of fresh sperm cells. Furthermore, we were able to show using the flow cytometer that spontaneous peroxidation was not a result of cell death, as only a pronounced subpopulation of living cells showed peroxidation after freeze-thawing. Although the method was established on bovine sperm, we discuss the importance of these assays for detecting lipid peroxidation in boar sperm cells.
Motility, ATP levels and metabolic enzyme activity of sperm from bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus).	Male bluegill displays one of two life history tactics. Some males (termed "parentals") delay reproduction until ca. 7 years of age, at which time they build nests and actively courts females. Others mature precociously (sneakers) and obtain fertilizations by cuckolding parental males. In the current study, we studied the relations among sperm motility, ATP levels, and metabolic enzyme activity in parental and sneaker bluegill. In both reproductive tactics, sperm swimming speed and ATP levels declined in parallel over the first 60 s of motility. Although sneaker sperm initially had higher ATP levels than parental sperm, by approximately 30 s postactivation, no differences existed between tactics. No differences were noted between tactics in swimming speed, percent motility, or the activities of key metabolic enzymes, although sperm from parentals had a higher ratio of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) to citrate synthase (CS). In both tactics, with increasing CPK and CS activity, sperm ATP levels increased at 20 s postactivation, suggesting that capacities for phosphocreatine hydrolysis and aerobic metabolism may influence interindividual variation in rates of ATP depletion. Nonetheless, there was no relation between sperm ATP levels and either swimming speed or percent of sperm that were motile. This suggests that interindividual variation in ATP levels may not be the primary determinant of variation in sperm swimming performance in bluegill.
The significance of platelet-activating factor and fertility in the male primate: a review.	Since its discovery nearly 30 years ago platelet-activating factor (PAF) has emerged as one of the more important lipid mediators known. PAF (1-O-alkyl-2-O-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine) exists endogenously as a mixture of molecular species with structural variants of the alkyl moiety. PAF is a novel potent signaling phospholipid that has unique pleiotropic biological properties in addition to platelet activation. PAF also plays a significant role in reproduction and is present in the sperm of a number of primate species. PAF content in squirrel monkey sperm is significantly higher during the breeding season than the non-breeding season. PAF content in rhesus sperm has a significant relationship with sperm motility. PAF content in human sperm has a positive correlation with seminal parameters and pregnancy outcomes. The enzymes (lyso-PAF-acetyltransferase and PAF-acetylhydrolase) necessary for PAF activation and deactivation are present in primate sperm. PAF-acetylhydrolase may act as a "decapacitation factor". Removal of this enzyme during capacitation promotes PAF synthesis increasing primate motility and fertilization. PAF also plays a significant role in the fertilization process, enhancing the fertilization rates of oocytes. Enhanced embryo development has also been reported in oocytes fertilized with PAF-treated sperm. Exogenous PAF will also significantly improve primate artificial insemination pregnancy outcomes. PAF antagonists inhibit sperm motility, acrosome reaction, and fertilization thus suggesting the presence of receptors for PAF. The PAF-receptor is present on primate sperm, with altered transcript levels and distribution patterns on abnormal cells. Whereas, the exact mechanism of PAF in sperm function and reproduction is uncertain, its importance in normal primate fertility is substantial.
The complete primary structure of the boar spermadhesin AQN-1, a carbohydrate-binding protein involved in fertilization.	Gamete recognition and adhesion are essential steps in the complex process of fertilization. In mammals and in other species, increasing evidence indicates that carbohydrate-binding proteins on the sperm surface play a pivotal role as counter-receptors for certain oligosaccharide moieties attached to the oocyte zona pellucida glycoproteins. Although different sperm-associated zona-pellucida-binding proteins have been identified in a number of species, few of them have been isolated and structurally characterized. In this paper we report the primary structural characterization of AQN-1, a 12-kDa boar-sperm-associated carbohydrate-binding and zona-pellucida-binding protein. The molecular mass of AQN-1 was determined by time-of-flight plasma-desorption mass spectrometry. Determination of its amino acid sequence and location of disulphide bridges were accomplished by a combination of proteochemical and mass spectrometric methods. The primary structure of AQN-1 failed to show any significant similarity to the protein structures deposited with the Martinsried Institute for Protein Sequences data bank, indicating that it may belong to a novel protein family involved in fertilization. AQN-1 shares extensive structural, as well as functional, similarity with two other boar sperm zona-pellucida-binding proteins, AQN-3 and AWN, which we have recently characterized. To name this protein family, we have coined the term spermadhesin. Our data may be relevant for identification of spermadhesins in other species, and thus may contribute to a better understanding of the species-specific sperm-egg recognition mechanism.
Molecular cloning and characterization of the macaque sperm associated antigen 9 (SPAG9): an orthologue of human SPAG9 gene.	The present study was conducted to isolate macaque proteomic homologue of human SPAG9 (EMBL nomenclature human sperm associated antigen 9: hSPAG9; Shankar et al., 1998: Biochem Biophys Res Commun 243:561-565) in order to find out whether the macaque can provide a suitable model for examining its immunocontraception effects. Macaque SPAG9 was cloned and sequenced from the macaque testis cDNA library. The macaque cDNA contained open reading frame encoding 712 amino acids. A 84.9% and 94% homology between macaque and human SPAG9 was found at protein and DNA levels. Northern analysis and RNA in situ hybridization experiments revealed testis- and stage-specific expressions of macaque SPAG9 mRNA, mainly confined to round spermatid suggesting haploid germ cell expression. Anti-human SPAG9 antibodies recognized native SPAG9 in macaque sperm extract in Western blotting and the acrosomal compartment region of macaque sperm in indirect immunofluorescence. Flow cytometry analysis further revealed surface localization of macaque SPAG9 in live macaque sperm. The amino acid sequence data for nonhuman primate SPAG9 suggest that antibodies generated by vaccinating macaque with hSPAG9 will recognize nonhuman primate SPAG9, supporting the testing of SPAG9 contraceptive vaccine based on hSPAG9 in the nonhuman primate model.
Membrane fluidity and the ability of domestic bird spermatozoa to survive cryopreservation.	The ability to survive cryopreservation varies in spermatozoa from different bird species. Among the biological factors potentially responsible for such differences, species variations in membrane fluidity have a role in the restoration of the physiological state after freezing. Membrane fluidity may be assessed by measuring fluorescence polarization anisotropy with a fluorescent dye. Anistropy values are proportional to membrane rigidity and consequently inversely proportional to membrane fluidity. In the present study, polarization anisotropy of spermatozoa originating from species differing in the freezability of their semen (chicken, turkey and guinea fowl) was measured in addition to lipid composition (cholesterol/phospholipid ratio), sperm viability (membrane permeability to eosine) and morphological integrity before and after cryopreservation. The percentages of viable and normal spermatozoa in fresh sperm were highest in the chicken (87%), lowest in guinea fowl (64%), and intermediate in turkeys (69%). Anisotropy values were highest in guinea fowl (0.205), lowest in chickens (0.155), and intermediate in turkeys (0.180). As a consequence, membrane fluidity was highest in chickens and lowest in guinea fowl. Cryopreservation significantly decreased sperm viability and morphological integrity and increased anisotropy in all species but did not change the inter species hierarchy. Initial cholesterol/phospholipid ratios were lower in chickens than in guinea fowl, and intermediate in turkeys (0.25, 0.26 and 0.29, respectively). Cryopreservation induced a severe decrease in cholesterol/phospholipid ratios in turkeys and guinea fowl. Sperm membrane fluidity in chickens, turkeys and guinea fowl behaves as an indicator of sperm freezability in these species. Inter species differences for this parameter may be partly explained by differences in initial cholesterol/phospholipids content of spermatozoa. On the other hand, the rigidifying process induced by cryopreservation is not related to lipid damage by the same mechanisms.
Human spermatozoa produce C16-platelet-activating factor.	Recent data indicate that human spermatozoa produce platelet-activating factor as determined by the rabbit platelet [3H]serotonin release bioassay. In this report, we examined by fast atom bombardment/mass spectrometry the molecular species of platelet-activating factor generated by these germ cells. Extracted spermatozoal samples that contained platelet-activating factor bioactivity underwent straight-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, and fractions which coeluted with authentic C16- and C18-platelet-activating factor standards were subjected to fast atom bombardment/mass spectrometry. Our mass spectral data indicate that human spermatozoa synthesize C16-platelet-activating factor but not C18-platelet-activating factor.
Developmental regulation of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) in rat testis: comparison of changes in ODC activity with changes in ODC mRNA levels during testicular maturation.	These studies were undertaken to analyze the changes in testicular ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) mRNA levels and ODC activity in rats from birth to maturity. Levels of ODC mRNA were initially low in animals aged 10-17 days. Beginning at 21 days, ODC mRNA levels began to rise, reaching maximal levels by 40 days (p less than 0.01). The size of the 2.2- and 2.6-kb ODC mRNAs did not appear to change with age, as determined by Northern blot analysis. The increase in ODC mRNA that began at 21 days paralleled the increase in testis weight. This increase in ODC mRNA preceded the appearance of rat protamine-1 mRNA, a germ cell-specific mRNA found in round spermatids, which was first detected on Day 40. In contrast, levels of sulfated glycoprotein-2 mRNA, which, in the testis, is found exclusively in Sertoli cells, were highest at Day 17 and thereafter declined gradually with age. Unlike the increase in ODC mRNA levels, ODC activity was highest in 10-day-old animals and thereafter declined steadily with age, reaching minimal levels by 40 days (p less than 0.01). Thus, the increase in testicular ODC mRNA levels was in marked contrast to the decrease in testicular ODC activity. Incubation of cytosolic extract from 40-day-old animals with that from 10- or 17-day-old animals inhibited ODC activity approximately 50%, when compared to cytosols from 10- or 17-day-old animals. Dialysis of cytosol from 40-day-old animals prior to incubation with cytosol from 10-day-old animals relieved this inhibition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Synaptotagmin VI and VIII and syntaxin 2 are essential for the mouse sperm acrosome reaction.	The sperm acrosome is a large secretory granule that undergoes calcium-stimulated exocytosis by a mechanism analogous to neuronal secretion. In neurons the core SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) complex, composed of syntaxin (Stx), SNAP-25, and VAMP2, mediates vesicle fusion, whereas calcium regulation is thought to be accomplished by the synaptotagmin (Syt) family, some of which exhibit calcium-dependent binding to syntaxin and SNAP-25. Sperm express Syt VI and VIII and Stx2, which are co-localized to the acrosomal compartment where they might mediate exocytosis in response to calcium influx. Therefore, we examined the calcium dependence and isoform-specific interaction of Syt and Stx. We found that Stx2 binds to Syt I, VI, and VIII in a calcium-dependent manner with EC(50) values of 175, 233, and 96 mum calcium, respectively. We also determined that the EC(50) for calcium of the acrosome reaction in streptolysin O-permeabilized sperm is 87 mum, which closely coincides with the calcium sensitivity of Stx2 and Syt VIII interaction. Consistent with this is the greater potency of recombinant Syt VIII, VI, and Stx2 compared with other isoforms in inhibiting the acrosome reaction in streptolysin O-permeabilized sperm. Similarly, introduction of Syt VIII-specific antibodies was equally effective in inhibiting the acrosome fusion. Taken together, our data suggest a critical role for Syt VIII and Stx2 in membrane fusion and acrosome reaction in the sperm.
Histone variants during sea urchin development.	The sea urchin genome contains several histone gene families whose expression is regulated in a developmental and tissue-specific fashion. The Cleavage Stage (CS) histone subtype is synthesized in unfertilized eggs and in embryos until the third cell cycle. The Early (E) subtype is synthesized during embryogenesis from the 2-4 cell stage to blastula. The only variant produced from the mesenchyme blastula stage to adult is the Late (L) subtype. In addition, two "sperm-specific" histone genes (SpH1 and SpH2B) are expressed exclusively in testis and their corresponding products are incorporated in sperm chromatin. In this review I will describe in some detail what is known about the characteristics of the various histone subtypes, with special focus on the Sp variants, and discuss the possible meaning of the presence of these histone variants during sea urchin development.
Patterns of sperm-specific histone variation in sea stars and sea urchins: primary structural homologies in the N-terminal region of spermatogenic H1.	An electrophoretic characterization of histones from pyloric caeca, testes, and sperm of Asterias vulgaris revealed a sperm/testes-specific variant of histone H1 significantly larger than its somatic counterpart from pyloric caeca. Additional proteins were observed in H1 regions of acetic acid-urea polyacrylamide gels in testicular extracts. Sperm or testis-specific variants of H2B observed in sea urchins were not found in the sea star. Evidence presented suggests that sperm- or testes-specific H1 species of intermediate mobility may arise from a single, slow-migrating H1 species (SpH1). Although an increase in nonspecific DNA binding by nuclear proteins must occur during the process of spermatogenesis, different organisms exhibit various patterns of sperm-specific protein mediating differential binding during the process. Sperm-specific variants of both H1 and H2B histones are observed in sea urchins, while the only variant observed in sea stars during spermatogenesis is SpH1. Sequencing of the N-terminus of SpH1 from A. vulgaris revealed a repeating tetrapeptide in residues 3-6 and 8-11 (Ser-Pro-Arg-Lys and Ser-Pro-Lys-Lys, respectively), homologous to repeats in the N-termini of sperm-specific H1s from sea urchins. Primary structure within critical, variable regions of molecules responsible for nonspecific DNA binding appear conserved in many organisms. The occurrence of repeating tetrapeptides in SpH1 and other DNA binding proteins suggests that such domains may function similarly in various chromatins undergoing regulated or reversible condensation.
Low lead environmental exposure alters semen quality and sperm chromatin condensation in northern Mexico.	We evaluated environmental-lead (Pb) effects on semen quality and sperm chromatin, considering Pb in seminal fluid (PbSF), spermatozoa (PbSpz), and blood (PbB) as exposure biomarkers in urban men (9.3 microg/dL PbB). Several individuals (44%) showed decreases in sperm quality; sperm concentration, motility, morphology and viability associated negatively with PbSpz, whereas semen volume associated negatively with PbSF. Multiple linear regression estimated PbSF and PbSpz thresholds for alterations in semen quality. Forty-eight percent of samples showed high values of nuclear chromatin condensation (NCD) positively associated with PbSF and zinc in spermatozoa (ZnSpz). ZnSpz values were higher than in fertile men. These results suggest that Pb may affect sperm chromatin by altering sperm Zn availability. PbB was not associated with semen quality or NCD, suggesting that Pb in semen compartments assesses better the amount of Pb in the reproductive tract; therefore, these are better biomarkers to evaluate toxicity at low Pb-exposure levels.
Measuring polyandry in wild populations: a case study using promiscuous crickets.	Mating rate has important implications for patterns of sexual selection and sexual conflict and hence for issues such as speciation and the maintenance of genetic diversity. Knowledge of natural mating rates can provide insights into the factors driving female mating behaviour. We investigated the level of polyandry in a Spanish population of the field cricket Gryllus bimaculatus using microsatellite markers. Two approaches were employed: (i) genotyping the offspring of wild-caught gravid females to determine the number of males siring the brood and (ii) genotyping sperm stored in the spermathecae of females mated in the wild to estimate the number of mating partners. We compared existing methods for inferring the minimum and probable number of fathers and described a novel probabilistic technique estimating the number of mates by genotyping stored sperm. Using the most conservative allele-counting method, 71% of females produced offspring sired by at least two males (a minimum mean of 2.4 fathers per clutch), and all females had mated to at least two males with minimum mean estimates of 2.7-5.1 mates per female. Our study reveals high levels of polyandry in the wild and suggests that females mate with more males than sire their offspring.
Specific location of sperm mitochondria in mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis zygotes stained by MitoTracker.	In Mytilidae, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in the offspring is inherited from male and female parents. Sperm mitochondria are only incorporated into the testes. This phenomenon is called doubly uniparental inheritance (DUI). Sperm mitochondria should locate in the primordial germ cell during development to maintain DUI. However, the mechanism of sperm mitochondria localization is still unknown. To reveal the mechanism, we followed the location of sperm mitochondria in Mytilus galloprovincialis zygotes fertilized with sperm stained by MitoTracker. Just after fertilization, sperm mitochondria, which were found to enter eggs from various sites, remained at sperm entry point. Five sperm mitochondria located at the male pronucleus. After pronuclear expansion, sperm mitochondria migrated to the center of the egg together with the male pronucleus. At anaphase of cleavage-I, the distribution pattern of sperm mitochondria was divided into two patterns. In pattern A, sperm mitochondria located in the equatorial region of the eggs. In pattern B, sperm mitochondria migrated and divided into two groups with chromosomes. From observations of colchicine-treated eggs, we suggest that sperm mitochondria migration from fertilization to anaphase of cleavage-I depends on the microtubules. The difference between pattern A and pattern B may be caused by whether sperm mitochondria migrated or not by the microtubules at cleavage-I.
Allele-specific germ cell epimutation in the spacer promoter of the 45S ribosomal RNA gene after Cr(III) exposure.	Paternal exposure of mice to Cr(III) causes increased tumor risk in offspring; an epigenetic mechanism has been hypothesized. Representational difference analysis of gene methylation in sperm revealed hypomethylation in the 45S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene after Cr(III) exposure, compared with controls. The most striking effects were seen in the rRNA spacer promoter, a region in the intergenic region of rRNA gene clusters that can influence transcription. Methylation of the rRNA spacer promoter has not been studied heretofore. Sperm DNAs from Cr(III)-treated and control mice were modified by the bisulfite method followed by PCR amplification of the spacer promoter, including 27 CpG sites. Cloning and dideoxy sequencing identified sequence variants (T or G at base -2214) in the spacer promoter. The T allele had less DNA methylation than the G allele in control mice (17 of 17 clones vs. 42 of 72 clones, P = 0.0004). In spite of diversity of sperm DNA methylation patterns, the DNA clones from Cr(III)-exposed mice had fewer methylated CpG sites, by an average of 19% (P < 0.0001). This difference was limited to the G allele. The pyrosequencing technique was applied to quantify the percentage of methylation directly from amplified PCR products. Strikingly, for nine CpG sites including the spacer promoter core region, hypomethylation was highly significant in the Cr(III)-treated group (paired T test, P < 0.0001). Thus, one allele of the 45S rRNA spacer promoter is hypomethylated in sperm germ cells after Cr(III) exposure. This epimutation may lead to increase of tumor risk in the offspring.
Rapid and sensitive typing of forensic stains by PCR amplification of polymorphic simple repeat sequences in case work.	After failure of conventional typing and multilocus DNA fingerprinting methods to compare a minute vaginal swab stain with blood from a murder victim and a suspect, we used enzymatic DNA amplification (polymerase chain reaction, PCR) to discriminate the DNAs by typing of simple sequence lengths polymorphisms. A mixed dinucleotide locus in the HLA-DRB gene region and three novel tetranucleotide polymorphisms located autosomally as well as on the human Y chromosome were used to exclude a jailed subject from a case of murder.
The Caenorhabditis elegans spe-38 gene encodes a novel four-pass integral membrane protein required for sperm function at fertilization.	A mutation in the Caenorhabditis elegans spe-38 gene results in a sperm-specific fertility defect. spe-38 sperm are indistinguishable from wild-type sperm with regards to their morphology, motility and migratory behavior. spe-38 sperm make close contact with oocytes but fail to fertilize them. spe-38 sperm can also stimulate ovulation and engage in sperm competition. The spe-38 gene is predicted to encode a novel four-pass (tetraspan) integral membrane protein. Structurally similar tetraspan molecules have been implicated in processes such as gamete adhesion/fusion in mammals, membrane adhesion/fusion during yeast mating, and the formation/function of tight-junctions in metazoa. In antibody localization experiments, SPE-38 was found to concentrate on the pseudopod of mature sperm, consistent with it playing a direct role in gamete interactions.
Effect of staining and sorting on boar sperm membrane integrity, mitochondrial activity and in vitro blastocyst development.	The objective of this study was to determine the effects of staining with Hoechst 33342 and of the entire sorting procedure on boar sperm membrane integrity (using Annexin-V/PI), mitochondrial activity (using JC-1/SYBR/PI) and blastocyst development in vitro; the effect of storage at 17 degrees C for 24h prior to Hoechst staining and sorting was also investigated. The Hoechst staining and the whole sorting procedure reduced the percent of live spermatozoa in both fresh (day 0) and stored (day 1) semen, as determined by both assays; nevertheless, there was no increase in live sperm cells showing signs of early damage (Annexin-V positive, propidium negative), whose percentages remained nearly zero. The majority of Annexin-V positive cells were propidium positive, therefore dead. JC-1 staining evidenced a correlation between mitochondrial activity and viability. However, a significant difference between viable sperm cells and sperm cells with active mitochondria was detected in control and stained sperm, whereas almost all viable sorted spermatozoa had active mitochondria. No significant differences in the in vitro produced blastocysts both on day 0 and 1 were observed. In conclusion, despite the damages induced by sorting procedures, semen sorted as fresh or after storage at 17 degrees C can be successfully used for in vitro production of pig embryos.
Malondialdehyde levels in sperm and seminal plasma of asthenozoospermic and its relationship with semen parameters.	Toxic lipid peroxides are known to cause various impairments of sperm cells and may play a major role in the etiology of male infertility. We determined the level of lipid peroxidation as indicated by malondialdehyde (MDA) in the spermatozoa and seminal plasma of asthenozoospermic and normozoospermic males.
The taurine and hypotaurine content of human semen.	Taurine and hypotaurine levels were measured in human sperm and seminal fluid. Sperm taurine ranged from 17 nmol/mg DNA to 348 nmol/mg DNA, and hypotaurine from 0 nmol/mg DNA to 251 nmol/mg DNA. Seminal fluid contained 319 mumol/L to 1590 mumol/L of taurine, but no detectable hypotaurine. The coefficient of variation in multiple ejaculates from a single man for these components ranged from 12% for hypotaurine to 24% for seminal fluid taurine, indicating a relative constancy in their concentrations. Sperm hypotaurine content was significantly correlated with sperm morphology, sperm relative forward progression, the percentage of motile sperm, and the total number of sperm in the ejaculate. By contrast, sperm taurine content was negatively correlated with these parameters. The mean hypotaurine content of sperm from 8 fertile men was 149 +/- 92 nmol/mg DNA, four times higher than that of sperm from 9 infertile men, which was 35 +/- 19 nmol/mg DNA (P = 0.011). In contrast, the mean sperm taurine content of the fertile men was lower than that of the infertile men (83 +/- 33 nmol/mg DNA versus 168 +/- 119 nmol/mg DNA, respectively; P = 0.07). Seminal fluid taurine concentrations, however, were similar for both groups. Hypotaurine, an antioxidant, may play an important role in protecting sperm from reactive oxygen species. Higher concentrations of taurine in the sperm of infertile men suggest that accelerated oxidation of hypotaurine to taurine may accompany the observed decline in other sperm parameters.
Localization of actin, alpha-actinin, and tropomyosin in bovine spermatozoa and epididymal epithelium.	Actin, alpha-actinin, and tropomyosin were localized in the testicular, epididymal, and ejaculated spermatozoa and in the epithelium of the bovine epididymis by means of specific antibodies using an indirect immunofluorescence technique. Immunocytochemical results were confirmed by the western blot analysis. Independent of the method of fixation, washing, or sonication, actin, alpha-actinin, and tropomyosin were all consistently localized in the neck of the spermatozoa. Actin and tropomyosin present in the postacrosomal area could be removed by sonication, whereas alpha-actinin in the basal plate appeared to be resistant to the treatment. In the unwashed spermatozoa alpha-actinin-specific immunofluorescence was seen over the acrosomal area, whereas in the washed sperm it appeared as a narrow cap at the margin of the head. In the latter location, its distribution was similar to that of tropomyosin. In the majority of preparations, tropomyosin could be localized in the principal piece of the tail. Even though some actin-specific immunofluorescence could be identified in the principal piece of the tail of the testicular and epididymal spermatozoa, a strong immunoreaction appeared only in the ejaculated spermatozoa. In the principal cells of the epididymal epithelium, specific fluorescence for actin, alpha-actinin, and tropomyosin occurred in the apical junctional complex. Basal bodies of the solitary cilia of the epididymal epithelium were labelled with antitropomyosin and anti-alpha-actinin antibodies. Besides offering new information about the cytoskeletal composition of the mammalian sperm, the present results support the hypothesized homology between the connecting piece of the sperm neck and the basal body of the cilia.
Occurrence of wax esters and 1-O-alkyl-2,3-diacylglycerols in goat epididymal sperm plasma membrane.	Two unusual lipid classes were detected by thin-layer chromatography in the neutral lipids derived from goat cauda-epididymal sperm plasma membrane. The lipids were identified as wax esters and 1-O-alkyl-2,3-diacylglycerols based on chromatographic properties, identity of their hydrolysis products, and infrared/1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectral evidence. The membrane contained ca. 3 and 5 micrograms/mg protein of wax esters and alkyldiacylglycerols, respectively. The relative proportions of wax esters and alkyldiacylglycerols in the total neutral lipids were 1.5% and 2.4%, respectively. The lipids contained fatty acids with chain lengths of C14 to C22. The major fatty acids of the wax esters were 14:0, 16:0, 16:1 omega 7, 18:0 and 18:1 omega 9. The fatty acids in alkyldiacylglycerol were 16:0, 18:0, 22:5 omega 3 and 22:6 omega 3. Alkyldiacylglycerol was particularly rich in docosahexaenoic acid (22:6 omega 3) representing 30% of the total fatty acids. The alcohols of wax ester were all saturated with C20-C29 carbon chains. The deacylated products derived from alkyldiacylglycerols were identified as hexadecyl, octadecyl and octadec-9'-enyl glycerol ethers.
Effects of low-molecular-weight organic ligands and phosphate on DNA adsorption by soil colloids and minerals.	Adsorption of DNA on montmorillonite, kaolinite, goethite and soil clays from an Alfisol in the presence of citrate, tartrate and phosphate was studied. A marked decrease in DNA adsorption was observed on montmorillonite and kaolinite with increasing anion concentrations from 0 to 5 mM. However, the amount of DNA adsorbed by montmorillonite and kaolinite was enhanced when ligand concentration was higher than 5 mM. In the system of soil colloids and goethite, with the increase of anion concentrations, a steady decrease was found and the ability of ligands in depressing DNA adsorption followed the sequence: phosphate > citrate > tartrate. Compared to H2O2-treated clays (inorganic clays), a sharp decrease in DNA adsorption was observed on goethite and organo-mineral complexes (organic clays) with increasing ligand concentrations. The results suggest that the influence of anions on DNA adsorption varies with the type and concentration of anion as well as the surface properties of soil components. Introduction of DNA into the system before the addition of ligands had the greatest amount of DNA adsorption on soil colloids and goethite. Organic and inorganic ligands promoted DNA adsorption on montmorillonite and kaolinite when ligands were introduced into the system before the addition of DNA. The results obtained in this study have important implications for the understanding of the persistence and fate of DNA in soil environments especially rhizosphere soil where various organic and inorganic ligands are active.
CD55 in rat male reproductive tissue: differential expression in testis and expression of a unique truncated isoform on spermatozoa.	CD55 is a key regulator of complement activation, expressed on most tissues and cells in man and other mammals. In the rat, alternative splicing in the gene encoding CD55 yields GPI-anchored (GPI-CD55) and transmembrane (TM-CD55) forms. Published Northern blot analysis indicated that while GPI-CD55 was broadly expressed, TM-CD55 was primarily expressed in the testis, although the precise site of expression was not identified. To clarify the distribution of CD55 isoforms in rat reproductive tissues, we first performed immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis with an anti-rat CD55 mAb that recognized all reported CD55 isoforms, and a polyclonal immunoglobulin specific for TM-CD55. CD55 was absent in testis prior to puberty. Post-puberty, CD55 was expressed at high levels on all spermiogenic cells from step 6 spermatid onward, and on mature spermatozoa focussed on the acrosome, but was absent from support cells and early progenitors. Enzymatic digestion revealed that GPI-CD55 was predominant in testis and spermatozoa. Staining for TM-CD55 with specific immunoglobulin confirmed its absence from mature sperm and expression on spermatids only between steps 11 and 14 of development. GPI-CD55 on spermatozoa was of lower molecular weight than that in testis and other tissues; sequencing from spermatozoal mRNA identified a unique isoform of GPI-CD55 missing short consensus repeat 4. The predominant acrosome expression and presence of a unique, truncated isoform of CD55 on spermatozoa provides further support for the hypothesis that the acrosome is a highly specialized region in which closely regulated complement activation may contribute to reproductive function.
Identification, culture, and characterization of germline stem cell-like cells in chicken testes.	We recently succeeded in inducing germline transmission by transferring chicken testicular cells into heterologous testes. This study was designed subsequently to identify pluripotent cells in the testicular cells, which would induce the germline transmission. Testicular cells retrieved from juvenile (4-wk-old) or adult (24-wk-old) White Leghorn (WL) chickens were stained with germ cell-specific markers anti-SSEA1, anti-SSEA3, anti-SSEA4, anti-EMA1, anti-ITGA6, and anti-ITGB1 antibodies; 2C9; and lectin-Solanum tuberosum agglutinin (STA). The percentages of the cells that were positive for each marker were within the ranges of 0.33% -0.44% and 0.029%-0.072% of the total testicular cell population in the juvenile and adult, respectively, and significant (P < 0.0002) differences were detected between the ages. When 1 x 10(6) testicular cells were cultured in Dulbecco minimum essential medium-based medium supplemented with leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2), and/or insulinlike growth factor 1 (IGF1), colony formation was detected only in LIF++FGF2-containing or LIF+FGF2+IGF1-containing medium during primary culture, and the supplementation of LIF+FGF2+IGF1 was the most efficient for maintaining the colony-forming cells through subculture. The established cells retrieved at the end of the primary culture or the 20th subpassage were positive for chicken germ cell-specific periodic acid-Schiff (PAS), EMA1, 2C9, SSEA1, SSEA3, SSEA4, ITGA6, and ITGB1; and lectin-STA markers (evaluated after 11th subpassage). Double staining of lectin-STA with anti-SSEA1, anti-SSEA3, anti-SSEA4, anti-ITGA6, and anti-ITGB1 also was possible. They differentiated spontaneously into embryoid bodies after being cultured in LIF-free medium. We conclude that germline stem cell-like cells are present in chicken testicular cells retrieved from both juvenile and adult testes, which can be identified with the specific markers for primordial germ cells or embryonic germ cells.
Nematode sperm motility: nonpolar filament polymerization mediated by end-tracking motors.	In nematode sperm cell motility, major sperm protein (MSP) filament assembly results in dynamic membrane protrusions in a manner that closely resembles actin-based motility in other eukaryotic cells. Paradoxically, whereas actin-based motility is driven by addition of ATP-bound actin subunits onto actin filament plus-ends located at the cell membrane, MSP dimers assemble from solution into nonpolar filaments that lack a nucleotide binding site. Thus, filament polarity and on-filament ATP hydrolysis, although essential for actin-based motility, appear to be unnecessary for membrane protrusions by MSP. As a potential resolution to this paradox, we propose a model for MSP filament assembly and force generation by MSP filament end-tracking proteins. In this model, ATP hydrolysis drives affinity-modulated, processive interactions between membrane-associated proteins and elongating filament ends. However, in contrast to the "actoclampin" model for actin filament end-tracking motors, ATP activates the tracking protein (or a soluble cofactor) rather than the MSP subunits themselves (in contrast to activation of actin subunits by ATP binding). The MSP end-tracking model predicts properties that are consistent with several key observations of MSP-based motility, including persistent membrane attachment, polymerization of filament ends at the membrane with depolymerization of free-filament ends away from the membrane, as well as a saturating dependence of polymerization rate on the concentration of non-MSP soluble cytoplasmic components.
The bovine seminal plasma protein PDC-109 extracts phosphorylcholine-containing lipids from the outer membrane leaflet.	The bovine seminal plasma protein PDC-109 modulates the maturation of bull sperm cells by removing lipids, mainly phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol, from their cellular membrane. Here, we have characterized the process of extraction of endogenous phospholipids and of their respective analogues. By measuring the PDC-109-mediated release of fluorescent phospholipid analogues from lipid vesicles and from biological membranes (human erythrocytes, bovine epididymal sperm cells), we showed that PDC-109 extracts phospholipids with a phosphorylcholine headgroup mainly from the outer leaflet of these membranes. The ability of PDC-109 to extract endogenous phospholipids from epididymal sperm cells was followed by mass spectrometry, which allowed us to characterize the fatty acid pattern of the released lipids. From these cells, PDC-109 extracted phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin that contained an enrichment of mono- and di-unsaturated fatty acids as well as short-chain and lyso-phosphatidylcholine species. Based on the results, a model explaining the phospholipid specificity of PDC-109-mediated lipid release is presented.
Characterization of human sperm populations using conventional parameters, surface ubiquitination, and apoptotic markers.	To directly compare distinct assays proposed to monitor human sperm quality and possibly preselect sperm populations for assisted reproductive technology (ART).
Possible role of the plasminogen activation system in human subfertility.	To correlate components of the plasminogen activator (PA) system with fertility outcome parameters in participants in an IVF/intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) procedure.
New insights into sperm-zona pellucida interaction: involvement of sperm lipid rafts.	Sperm-zona pellucida (ZP) binding is the first step of gamete interaction. This binding occurs in two sequential steps, starting with the primary binding of acrosome-intact sperm to the ZP followed by the secondary ZP binding of acrosome reacting/reacted sperm. While there are only a few ZP sulfoglycoproteins involved in these binding events, a large number of sperm surface molecules have been shown to possess ZP affinity. In this review, we have given explanations to the existence of these many ZP binding molecules. We have also summarized their origin and the mechanisms of how they are targeted to the sperm surface and acrosome. Recently, we have shown that sperm lipid rafts have affinity for the ZP. A number of ZP binding molecules are also present in sperm lipid rafts. In this review, we have provided an argument that sperm lipid rafts may be the platforms on the sperm surface for ZP interaction.
Significance of substance P- and enkephalin-peptide systems in the male genital tract.	The plexi of the male reproductive tract have components of both the autonomic and sensory nervous systems. Rat epididymis was found to be a rich source of substance P. Substance P levels in the epididymis were higher by about 2.8 and 19.3 times than those in the prostate and seminal vesicles, respectively. Seminal vesicles were found to be a rich source of enkephalins. They had about 2.9 and 2.6 times higher leucine enkephalin levels than epididymis and prostate, respectively. Human seminal plasma contained about 47 times higher levels of leucine enkephalin than substance P. Using the split ejaculate technique, it has been demonstrated that early fractions of the human ejaculate contain fluids from prostate (and possibly epididymis), whereas later fractions represent seminal vesicle secretions. A low exogenous concentration of substance P (400 nM) increased sperm motility, whereas leucine enkephalin (100 microM) depressed it. Substance P (1-10 micrograms/mL) and muscarinic agonists enhanced the adrenergic transmission of the rat vas deferens to electrical stimulation. Leucine enkephalin (1-10 micrograms/mL) depressed adrenergic transmission and antagonized the effects of substance P and muscarinic agonists. These studies suggest that substance P-like tachykinins may play a role in sperm maturation, in expulsion of fluid from the epididymis, and in initiation of motility, whereas leucine enkephalin-like peptides may contribute to the orgasmic experience and detumescence.
Ion channels in boar sperm plasma membranes: characterization of a cation selective channel.	Plasma membranes isolated from cauda epididymal and ejaculated boar sperm were inserted into planar lipid bilayers and examined for the presence of ion channels. Channel fusion was frequently observed; the most prominent was a nonselective cation channel which conducted K, Na, Cs, Ca, and Ba. Channel opening did not show a strict dependence on voltage but was partially blocked by verapamil, nitrendipine, and ruthenium red. A channel with these characteristics was observed when plasma membranes were isolated by high-pressure nitrogen cavitation (650 psi, 78% sperm head plasma membranes) or at very low nitrogen pressures (50 psi, 90% sperm head plasma membranes), suggesting that this channel may be present in the plasma membrane overlying the sperm head.
Time-lapse and retrospective analysis of DNA methylation in mouse preimplantation embryos by live cell imaging.	Genome-wide change of DNA methylation in preimplantation embryos is known to be important for the nuclear reprogramming process. A synthetic RNA encoding enhanced green fluorescence protein fused to the methyl-CpG-binding domain and nuclear localization signal of human MBD1 was microinjected into metaphase II-arrested or fertilized oocytes, and the localization of methylated DNA was monitored by live cell imaging. Both the central part of decondensing sperm nucleus and the rim region of the nucleolus in the male pronucleus were highly DNA-methylated during pronuclear formation. The methylated paternal genome undergoing active DNA demethylation in the enlarging pronucleus was dispersed, assembled, and then migrated to the nucleolar rim. The female pronucleus contained methylated DNA predominantly in the nucleoplasm. When the localization of methylated DNA in preimplantation embryos was examined, a configurational change of methylated chromatin dramatically occurred during the transition of 2-cell to 4-cell embryos. Moreover, retrospective analysis demonstrated that a noticeable number of the oocytes reconstructed by round spermatid injection (ROSI) possess small, bright dots of methylated chromatin in the nucleoplasm of male pronucleus. These ROSI oocytes showed a significantly low rate of 2-cell formation, thus suggesting that the poor embryonic development of the ROSI oocytes may result from the abnormal localization of methylated chromatin.
Molecular glass wool filtration as a new tool for sperm preparation.	Magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS) using annexin V-conjugated microbeads in a liquid phase eliminates apoptotic spermatozoa based on the externalization of phosphatidylserine (EPS) residues. The procedure allows the enrichment of a sperm population free of apoptosis markers, giving higher fertilization potential. Our aim was to determine if the annexin V binding principle can be transferred onto a glass wool filter system in order to produce a solid phase filter.
Molecular basis of sperm flagellar axonemes: structural and evolutionary aspects.	The axonemes serve as motile machineries in sperm flagella. Although atypical axonemal structures are observed in some cases, 9 + 2 microtubule structure of the axoneme is predominant in many organisms. Several structures are bound to these microtubules and comprise a highly organized protein network. Extensive proteomic analysis of the axonemes has led to find several repeats, domains, and motifs in axonemal proteins. Molecular comparison of subunit composition of axonemal substructures between the ascidian Ciona intestinalis and the green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtti leads to an intriguing molecular aspect concerning the evolution of intracellular functional complex: The architecture of the axonemes has been well conserved through evolution, but the molecular structure of each axonemal component is not always conserved. In light of domain structure in the axonemal proteins, substructures like outer arm dynein and radial spoke contain a set of domain structures, although some domain-containing subunits are different between these two organisms. Thus, conservation of protein domains within a substructure seems to take precedence over that of each protein ("module-dominant conservation"), which may ultimately result in morphological and functional conservation of the axonemes through evolution.
Correlation of seminal parameters with serum lipid profile and sex hormones.	The phospholipids and fatty acid composition of sperm are altered under the influence of serum lipids on impaired seminal parameters in infertile men. We studied the correlation of the serum lipid profile and sex hormone results of a group of infertile men with sperm characteristics of 18 infertile men. Semen samples were collected and analyzed. Serum fasted and post-meal glucose levels, insulin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, VLDL, triglyceride, FSH, LH, and testosterone measurements were performed. The increased serum VLDL, total triglyceride, and testosterone values were significantly correlated with decreased sperm motility. Serum FSH values were also inversely correlated with normal sperm morphology. The increased VLDL impaired seminal parameters; additionally, increased triglycerides may have deleterious effects on spermatogenesis. Deterioration is related with increased serum VLDL and triglyceride levels.
Vezatin, a ubiquitous protein of adherens cell-cell junctions, is exclusively expressed in germ cells in mouse testis.	In the male reproductive organs of mammals, the formation of spermatozoa takes place during two successive phases: differentiation (in the testis) and maturation (in the epididymis). The first phase, spermiogenesis, relies on a unique adherens junction, the apical ectoplasmic specialization linking the epithelial Sertoli cells to immature differentiating spermatids. Vezatin is a transmembrane protein associated with adherens junctions and the actin cytoskeleton in most epithelial cells. We report here the expression profile of vezatin during spermatogenesis. Vezatin is exclusively expressed in haploid germ cells. Immunocytochemical and ultrastructural analyses showed that vezatin intimately coincides, temporally and spatially, with acrosome formation. While vezatin is a transmembrane protein associated with adherens junctions in many epithelial cells, it is not seen at the ectoplasmic specializations, neither at the basal nor at the apical sites, in the seminiferous epithelium. In particular, vezatin does not colocalize with espin and myosin VIIa, two molecular markers of the ectoplasmic specialization. In differentiating spermatids, ultrastructural data indicate that vezatin localizes in the acrosome. In epididymal sperm, vezatin localizes also to the outer acrosomal membrane. Considering its developmental and molecular characteristics, vezatin may be involved in the assembly/stability of this spermatic membrane.
Identification and characterization of ERp29 in rat spermatozoa during epididymal transit.	The mammalian epididymis is able to create sequential changes in the composition of luminal fluid throughout its length, wherein spermatozoa undergo morphological, biochemical, and physiological modifications. Subsequently, spermatozoa acquire the ability for fertilization upon reaching the epididymal cauda. In this study, protein variations in Sprague-Dawley rat spermatozoa along the caput and caudal regions of epididymis were investigated by high-resolution two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) in combination with mass spectrometry. From total protein spots on the 2DE maps, 43 spots were shown to be significantly modified as sperm traverse the epididymis, and seven unambiguous proteins were identified from them. Finally, using indirect immunofluorescence, we demonstrated that localization of one of these seven proteins, the endoplasmic reticulum protein (ERp29) precursor, which was first reported in mammalian spermatozoa, was apparently up-regulated as the sperm underwent epididymal maturation and expressed mainly on caudal sperm. Western blot analysis also revealed that ERp29 precursor, from both whole spermatozoa and membrane proteins, increased significantly as the sperm underwent epididymal maturation. Furthermore, the results from immunofluorescence-stained epididymal frozen sections demonstrated that ERp29 was localized in cytoplasm of epididymal epithelia, and the fluorescence intensity was significantly higher in the caudal epididymis than in the caput. These clues indicated that the ERp29 precursor, perhaps related to secretory protein synthesis and absorbed by spermatozoa, may play a vital role in sperm maturation during the epididymal transit, particularly, in the sperm/organelle membrane.
Effects of freeze-drying on cytology, ultrastructure, DNA fragmentation, and fertilizing ability of bovine sperm.	Freeze-drying sperm is an alternative to cryopreservation. Although sperm from various species has been freeze-dried, there are few reports for bovine sperm. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the protective effect of various freeze-drying media on the structural and functional components of bovine sperm. The media tested were composed of TCM 199 with Hanks salts supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS) and TCM 199 with Hanks salts supplemented with 10% FCS and 0.2 M trehalose and EGTA solution. The efficiency of each medium on the preservation of freeze-dried sperm structures was evaluated with conventional and electron microscopy, DNA integrity was analyzed by a TUNEL assay, and fertilizing ability of lyophilized sperm was determined with ICSI. Although the plasma membrane was damaged in all media tested, mitochondria were similarly preserved in all freeze-drying treatments. The acrosome was best preserved in the media that contained trehalose (other treatments also conserved this structure). In contrast, media containing EGTA or trehalose most effectively preserved the nuclei in freeze-dried sperm, with only 2 and 5%, respectively, of cells with fragmented DNA. Furthermore, sperm conserved with these media also had higher (P<0.05) rates of sperm head decondensation (32.5 and 27.5%), pronucleus formation (37.5 and 45.0%) and blastocyst formation (19.4 and 18.3%) than medium supplemented with FCS (15.0, 20.0 and 10.2%, respectively). In conclusion, media with EGTA and trehalose adequately protected bovine sperm during freeze-drying by preserving the viability of their nuclei.
Expression of the GM-CSF receptor in ovine spermatozoa: GM-CSF effect on sperm viability and motility of sperm subpopulations after the freezing-thawing process.	The granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a pleiotropic cytokine capable of stimulating proliferation, maturation and function of haematopoietic cells. Receptors for this cytokine are composed of two subunits, alpha and beta, and are expressed in myeloid progenitors and mature mononuclear phagocytes, monocytes, eosinophils and neutrophils, as well as in other non-haematopoietic cells. We have previously demonstrated that bull spermatozoa express functional GM-CSF receptors that signal for increased glucose and vitamin-C uptake and enhance several parameters of sperm motility in the presence of glucose or fructose substrates. In this study, we have analyzed the expression of GM-CSF receptors in ovine spermatozoa and studied the effect of GM-CSF on sperm viability and motility after the freezing-thawing process. Immunolocalization and immunoblotting analyses demonstrated that ovine spermatozoa (Xisqueta race) expressed GM-CSF receptors. In addition, GM-CSF partially counteracted the impairing action of freezing/thawing on the percentage of total motility, as well as on the specific motility patterns of each of the separate, motile sperm subpopulations of ram ejaculates subjected to this protocol. These results suggest that GM-CSF can play a role in the resistance of ram spermatozoa to environmental thermal stress.
Molecular dynamics simulations of CN- dynamics and spectroscopy in myoglobin.	The vibrational dynamics of the cyanide anion and the heme group in MbCN (CN complexed to Myoglobin) are investigated using molecular dynamics simulations. A previously calculated quantum-chemical heme-ligand potential-energy surface together with a three-center charge model for the iron-ligand center that captures both polarization and ligand-to-metal charge transfer allows for a detailed description of the interactions around the active site. It is found that the CN binding orientation (Fe--CN or Fe--NC) to the heme affects the stretching frequency of the ligand, with a 25 cm-1 difference in the fundamental wavenumber between the two orientations as well as a change in bond length. The charge model also captures such crucial interactions as the possible hydrogen bond between the ligand and the His64 residue. This interaction is weakened when the ligand binds in the Fe--NC conformation but is also sensitive to the protonation state of His64. The structural changes around the active site, the observation of water penetration for the Fe--NC conformation, the computed IR spectrum, and the energetics suggest that the Fe--CN conformation with Hisepsilon64 is the most likely one. The water accessibility of the active site is also found to be related to the protonation state of His64. The presence of water in the active site could also affect the IR band of the C--N stretch mode. Thus, IR spectroscopy of the C--N stretch is a potentially useful reporter of ligand isomers and active-site structure.
Dynamic light scattering and fluorescence study of the interaction between double-stranded DNA and poly(amido amine) dendrimers.	The interaction between a cationic poly(amido amine) (PAMAM) dendrimer of generation 4 and double-stranded salmon sperm DNA in 10 mM NaBr solution has been investigated using dynamic light scattering (DLS) and steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy. The structural parameters of the formed aggregates as well as the complex formation process were studied in dilute solutions. When DNA is mixed with PAMAM dendrimers, it undergoes a transition from a semiflexible coil to a more compact conformation due to the electrostatic interaction present between the cationic dendrimer and the anionic polyelectrolyte. The DLS results reveal that one salmon sperm DNA molecule forms a discrete aggregate in dilute solution with several PAMAM dendrimers with a mean apparent hydrodynamic radius of 50 nm. These discrete complexes coexist with free DNA at low molar ratios of dendrimer to DNA, which shows that cooperativity is present in the complex formation. The formation of the complexes was confirmed by agarose gel electrophoresis measurements. DNA in the complexes was also found to be significantly more protected against DNase catalyzed digestion compared to free DNA. The number of dendrimers per DNA chain in the complexes was found to be approximately 35 as determined by steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy.
The use of the acridine orange test and the TUNEL assay to assess the integrity of freeze-dried bovine spermatozoa DNA.	The ability to detect nuclear damage is an important tool for the development of sperm preservation methods. We used the acridine orange test (AOT) and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUDP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay to assess the DNA status of sperm cells preserved with different lyophilization media. The AOT did not detect any differences between different lyophilization media. However, differences in DNA integrity were observed among treatments with the TUNEL assay, suggesting that TUNEL is a more sensitive method to evaluate sperm DNA. The use of TCM 199 and 10% FCS as a lyophilization medium resulted in 14% of the cells with DNA fragmentation in TUNEL test. The AOT indicated only 4% of the cells with chromatin damage, with this same treatment, with no significant differences when compared to the other treatments. The degree of DNA fragmentation was negatively related to fertilizing potential, as sperm DNA damage was inversely correlated with pro-nucleus formation. The TUNEL assay was found to be an efficient method to detect DNA damage in sperm, and it could be used as a tool to predict male fertility.
Establishment of a high-resolution 2-D reference map of human spermatozoal proteins from 12 fertile sperm-bank donors.	To extend the analysis of the proteome of human spermatozoa and establish a 2-D gel electrophoresis (2-DE) reference map of human spermatozoal proteins in a pH range of 3.5-9.0.
Effect of pluviosity and sun shine on sperm production and seminal characteristics of the fish Brycon henni (Pisces: Characidae)]	Effect of pluviosity and sun shine on sperm production and seminal characteristics of the fish Brycon henni (Pisces: Characidae). In Colombia the fish Brycon henni is a protected endemic species. It inhabits water bodies in coffee producing areas (700-1900 ma.s.l.; 4 degrees 35'56" N - 74 degrees 04'51" W; 18-28 degrees C). Insufficient knowledge of its basic biology and behavior prevent the commercial culture of this promising fish. We studied the production and sperm physiology of captive males. Along a year 20 samples were taken from each of 10 males. The sample was obtained by abdominal cefalo-caudal massage and transported to the laboratory at 4 degrees C. Except for September and October (maximum rainfall), sperm was always obtained in at least 50% of the males. Color, osmolality and pH were similar in all the samples. Volume, concentration, viability, motility and activation time were variable: sunshine had a positive effect on volume (Spearman p < 0.05) and on sperm concentration (Spearman p < 0.05) while pluviosity had a negative effect on volume and viability. The proportion of ions (Na, K, Mg, Ca) was constant along the year; Na being 10-fold higher than K and 100-fold higher than Mg and Ca; however the absolute concentration of all ions was slightly higher in April and in July (with no apparent relation with the other variables analyzed).
Analysis of protamines isolated from alcohol preserved epididymides.	Protamines 1 and 2 have been isolated from the sperm of frozen and isopropanol preserved Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) epididymides and analyzed by gel electrophoresis, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and amino acid analysis and sequencing. The results show that alcohol preservation does not alter the primary structure of the two sperm nuclear proteins and that the preservation of mammalian reproductive organs in alcohol is a viable alternative to freezing tissues collected in the field. Sperm were isolated from tissues fixed in isopropanol for as long as 7 months without detectable adverse effects on either the isolation of sperm or the primary structure of the protamines.
Relative-residue surface-accessibility patterns reveal myoglobin and catalase similarity.	A novel sliding-window search method using relative-residue surface-accessibility patterns identified extensive, but unsuspected, structural similarity over a 3-helix region in the C-terminus of the evolutionarily unrelated proteins sperm-whale myoglobin and beef liver catalase. This clear example of structural similarity between non-homologous proteins highlights the importance of relative-residue surface-accessibility patterns in understanding the local folded structure in proteins.
The presence of platelet-activating factor-like activity in human spermatozoa.	Evidence is provided for the existence of platelet-activating factor (PAF)-like activity in the lipid extracts of human spermatozoa. The PAF content of human spermatozoa based on [3H]-serotonin release from washed rabbit platelets was noted to be 1.45 pmol/10(8) sperm cells in highly purified motile spermatozoa. No PAF activity was associated with the seminal fluid. Platelet-activating factor content of spermatozoa may be related to its fertility potential.
Identification of spectrin and calmodulin in rabbit spermiogenesis and spermatozoa.	Actin was localized in the four subacrosomal bulges (Camatini et al., Eur. J. Cell Biol. 45:276-281, 1987), which characterize the sperm head of rabbit spermatozoa (Phillips, J. Ultrastruct. Res. 38:591-604, 1972), and in the postacrosomal region (Welch and O'Rand, Dev. Biol. 109:411-417, 1985; Camatini et al., Eur. J. Cell Biol. 45:276-281, 1987). Specific antibodies and indirect immunogold labelling on testis Lowicryl K4M sections and spermatozoa cryosections were used to study the distribution of calmodulin and a spectrin-like protein. This protein was also present close to the shaping membranes of the head. The results presented suggest a membrane-cytoskeletal role of actin, spectrin, and calmodulin.
Cuttlefish sperm protamines. 1. Amino acid sequences of two distinct variants.	The amino acid sequences of two cuttlefish protamine variants Sp1 and Sp2 have been established from automated sequence analysis and mass spectrometry data. Sp1 (57 residues) and Sp2 (56 residues) have molecular masses of 8410 and 8253 Da, respectively. They are almost identical proteins which differ only by one residue of arginine and the position of two of the serine residues (14 and 37 in Sp1; 13 and 35 in Sp2). With an arginine content of about 77%, cuttlefish protamine is one of the most basic proteins which have ever been characterized and the first typical protamine sequenced in invertebrates. It is closely similar to sperm basic proteins identified in squids but strongly differs from the protamine-like components isolated from the sperm of bivalve molluscs.
Cuttlefish sperm protamines. 2. Mass spectrometry of protamines and related peptides.	The sequence of very basic proteins such as protamines (more than 50% arginines) and related peptides has been determined using mass spectrometry in conjunction with Edman degradation. The capabilities of three mass spectrometric (MS) techniques [fast-atom-bombardment (FAB), 252Cf plasma desorption (252CFPD) and electrospray (ES)] have been evaluated on stallion protamine 1, cuttlefish protamine, and the corresponding cleavage peptides. In contrast to FAB-MS and 252Cf PD-MS, ES-MS made possible an easy determination of the molecular mass of the intact protamines (approximately 8 kDa). With ES-MS about 0.2 nmol was sufficient to yield a mass measurement with an accuracy of 0.05%. On peptides smaller than 3500 Da, both FAB-MS and 252Cf PD-MS allowed mass measurements with an accuracy of 0.1%. 252Cf PD-MS appeared more sensitive than FAB-MS by about a factor of 10. FAB-MS is nevertheless particularly interesting since in most cases it produced spectra with intense A-type fragmentation ions which provided reliable primary structure information.
Effects of flaxseed dietary supplementation on sperm quality and on lipid composition of sperm subfractions and prostatic granules in rabbit.	Lipids are the main structural/functional components of the sperm, and their composition may undergo a series of modifications in relation to either physiologic events (capacitation and acrosome reaction) and/or diet. The goals of the current study were (1) to investigate whether a flaxseed (FS) dietary supplementation could affect the lipid and fatty acid profile of sperm subfractions and of prostatic granules (PGs) and (2) to evaluate the effects of dietary FS on rabbit buck semen quality. Accordingly, 20 adult New Zealand White rabbits were fed ad libitum a control diet (CO) or a diet supplemented with 5% extruded FS. Integration of diet with FS, as a consequence of the linolenic acid (C18:3n-3; LNA; 56%), increased the dietary n-3/n-6 ratio and resulted in a substantial rearrangement of sperm fatty acid composition at the subcellular level, mainly of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)n-3 (8.3% vs. 14.3%, P<0.05). The lipid and fatty acid profiles of sperm tail membrane were the most affected, undergoing the following significant changes: (1) a reduction by half of linoleic acid (C18:2n-6; LA) and docosapentaenoic acid (22:5n-6; DPA), and a reduction of cholesterol (-70%); (2) a concomitant increase of LNA (+65%), docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3; DHA; +83%), and of oleic acid (C18:1n-9, +61%). As a consequence, the sperm of FS-fed rabbits had a twice higher n-3/n-6 ratio and phospholipid/cholesterol ratio compared with the control sperm. These changes might have been on the basis of the higher responsiveness to hypo-osmotic solution and, hence, the higher sperm track speed observed for the FS group. Also, the membrane integrity and viability of the LNA-enriched sperm were both improved. On the other hand, the presence of lignans in FS might have accounted for the reduction of sperm cholesterol in the semen of FS-treated rabbits. The responsiveness of sperm to acrosome reaction was not affected by the dietary treatment probably due to supranutritional level of vitamin E and to the higher number of PGs, which are known to play a key role in sperm capacitation. In conclusion, our data showed for the first time that the integration of FS into the rabbit diet may improve sperm quality by modifying the sperm lipid composition and that the sperm subfractions and the PGs respond differently to the FS-induced lipid manipulation.
Seasonal effect on sperm messenger RNA profile of domestic swine (Sus Scrofa).	Seasonal infertility is a well-known problem in the modern swine (Sus scrofa) industry. The molecular mechanisms responsible for thermal effects on spermatogenesis are, however, just beginning to be elucidated. The existence of specific messenger RNA (mRNA) remnants contained within freshly ejaculated sperm has been identified in several species. Investigators have obtained differential RNA profiles of infertile men compared with fertile individuals; however, there are limited to the probes, which are mostly derived from nucleic acids of testicular tissues of either human or mice. The objective of this study was to investigate mRNA remnants from ejaculated sperm of the domestic swine and uncover important clues regarding the molecular regulation of spermatogenesis under environmental thermo-impacts. We utilized the remnant mRNA collected from swine ejaculated sperm as the target source to detect the global gene expression in summer and in winter by swine sperm-specific oligonucleotide microarray. Sixty-seven transcripts were differentially expressed with statistical differences between seasons of sperm samples collected, including forty-nine in winter (49/67) and eighteen in summer (18/67). There were only 33 of these transcripts that could be annotated to gene ontology hierarchy with the database of Homo sapiens and their functions mostly were involved in variety of metabolic processes. Moreover, these studies also confirmed that significant differences of gene expression profiles were found in swine sperm when comparisons were made between ejaculates collected during the winter and the summer season under the subtropical area such as Taiwan. Even though most of the genes found in our experiments are still poorly understood in terms of their true functions in spermatogenesis, bioinformatics analysis suggested that they are involved in a broad spectrum of biochemical processes including gamete generation. These concordant profiles should permit the development of a non-invasive testing protocol to assess the functional capacity of sperm as well as a new molecular selection scheme for fine breeding swine.
Isolation, characterization, and localization of the zona pellucida binding proteins of boar sperm.	In order to isolate the putative zona pellucida-binding proteins (ZPBPs) from boar spermatozoa, a new, simple method has been developed. The new isolation strategy made the most of the highly specific interactions between the components of the gametes. Detergent-extracted boar sperm proteins were submitted to affinity chromatography on a ZP-Sepharose column. SDS-PAGE analyses of the retained fraction under reducing conditions revealed that in addition to a component of Mr 38,000, the predominant ZPBPs contained at least three low molecular weight proteins (Mr less than 20 kDa). The isolated ZPBPs were effective in blocking sperm-oocyte binding in vitro. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, the ZPBPs were shown to be localized primarily in the sperm head, especially in the acrosomal cap region.
Effect of age on the seminal plasma and spermatozoa lead concentrations of bulls.	Blood, seminal plasma and spermatozoa lead concentrations were determined in Holstein (29 animals), Brown Swiss (14 animals) and Charoleux (11 animals) bulls aged 1-8 y. Blood concentrations were (mean +/- SD) 21.47 +/- 5.85, 18.71 +/- 6.60 and 23.27 +/- 6.75 ng Pb/ml respectively/each breed. Seminal plasma concentrations were 17.15 +/- 10.37, 13.62 +/- 10.10 and 14.03 +/- 11.31 ng Pb/ml, respectively. Spermatozoa concentrations averaged 74.93 +/- 48.10, 76.60 +/- 33.95 and 63.39 +/- 25.83 ng Pb/10(9) cells respectively. Age appeared to influence seminal plasma and spermatozoa lead levels, gradually decreasing in concentrations as the animals advanced in age.
Microheterogeneity and interspecific variability of the nuclear sperm proteins from Mytilus.	We have used acetic acid-urea-triton (AUT) gel electrophoresis and ionic exchange chromatography in order to analyze the interspecific variability and microheterogeneity pattern of the protamine-like (PL) proteins of the sperm of 4 different species of the bivalve mollusc, Mytilus. We have found that based upon these 2 criteria, it is possible to unambiguously distinguish each species from the rest. We have thus been able to corroborate the identity of M. trossulus. We have also analyzed the amino acid composition of some of the PL components for each different species. In the case of the PL-II* fraction, we have analyzed the composition of its major protein subcomponents.
Novel conserved structural domains of acrosome reaction-inducing substance are widespread in invertebrates.	In the starfish Asterias amurensis, acrosome reaction inducing substance (ARIS) is the main factor responsible for allowing sperm to recognize the egg jelly and begin the acrosome reaction (AR). ARIS is a large proteoglycan-like molecule, and its pentasaccharide repeat, Fragment 1 (Fr. 1), is responsible for inducing AR. Here, we investigated the primary structure of ARIS for the first time in order to improve our understanding of its functionality. Electrophoretic analysis revealed that ARIS is a complex of three proteins, all of which are modified by the Fr. 1 sugar chain. Sequencing indicated that there are two novel, conserved domains in all three ARIS proteins: ARIS N-terminus (AR-N) and ARIS C-terminus (AR-C) domains. We also found that other echinoderms possess ARIS proteins that are capable of inducing the AR for homologous sperm, indicating that ARIS proteins may be a ubiquitous component for echinoderm fertilization. Moreover, we identified ARIS-like genes from Ctenophora to Protochordata.
Bcar3 is expressed in sertoli cells and germ cells of the developing testis in mice.	We identified Bcar3 in the course of a screen for developmentally regulated genes at early developmental stages in mouse embryos. In this study, we explored the spatio-temporal expression pattern of Bcar3 during the critical time period of sex determination using in situ hybridization, real-time RT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry. We found that Bcar3 is expressed in XY gonads during early stages of gonad development and that BCAR3 localizes to Sertoli cells and germs cells. In addition, we identified a new alternative Bcar3 transcript in which exons 4-7 are deleted. This deletion could result in the generation of a truncated BCAR3 protein lacking functional domains including the SH2 domain. The data presented here suggest that Bcar3 could play a role in gonad development.
Identification and localization of the sperm CRISP family protein CiUrabin involved in gamete interaction in the ascidian Ciona intestinalis.	Ascidians are hermaphrodites, and most release sperm and eggs nearly simultaneously. Many species, including Halocynthia roretzi and Ciona intestinalis, are self-sterile. We previously reported that the interaction between a 12 EGF-like repeat-containing vitelline-coat (VC) protein, HrVC70, and a sperm GPI-anchored CRISP, HrUrabin, in lipid rafts plays a key role in self-/nonself-recognizable gamete interaction in H. roretzi. On the other hand, we recently identified two pairs of polymorphic genes responsible for self-incompatibility in C. intestinalis by positional cloning: The sperm polycystin 1-like receptors s-Themis-A/B and its fibrinogen-like ligand v-Themis-A/B on the VC. However, it is not known if the orthologs of HrVC70 and HrUrabin also participate in gamete interaction in C. intestinalis since they are from different orders. Here, we tested for a C. intestinalis ortholog (CiUrabin) of HrUrabin by searching the genome database and proteomes of sperm lipid rafts. The identified CiUrabin belongs to the CRISP family, with a PR domain and a GPI-anchor-attachment site. CiUrabin appears to be specifically expressed in the testis and localized at the surface of the sperm head, as revealed by Northern blotting and immunocytochemistry, respectively. The specific interaction between CiVC57, a C. intestinalis ortholog of HrVC70, and CiUrabin was confirmed by Far Western analysis, similarly to the interaction between HrVC70 and HrUrabin. The molecular interaction between CiVC57 and CiUrabin may be involved in the primary binding of sperm to the VC prior to the allorecognition process, mediated by v-Themis-A/B and s-Themis-A/B, during fertilization of C. intestinalis.
Involvement of multimeric protein complexes in mediating the capacitation-dependent binding of human spermatozoa to homologous zonae pellucidae.	The recognition and binding of a free-swimming spermatozoon to an ovulated oocyte is one of the most important cellular interactions in biology. While traditionally viewed as a simple lock and key mechanism, emerging evidence suggests that this event may require the concerted action of several sperm proteins. In this study we examine the hypothesis that the activity of such proteins may be coordinated by their assembly into multimeric recognition complexes on the sperm surface. Through the novel application of blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE), we tender the first direct evidence that human spermatozoa do indeed express a number of high molecular weight protein complexes on their surface. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a subset of these complexes displays affinity for homologous zonae pellucidae. Proteomic analysis of two such complexes using electrospray ionization mass spectrometry identified several of the components of the multimeric 20S proteasome and chaperonin-containing TCP-1 (CCT) complexes. The latter complex was also shown to harbor at least one putative zona pellucida binding protein, ZPBP2. Consistent with a role in the mediation of sperm-zona pellucida interaction we demonstrated that antibodies directed against individual subunits of these complexes were able to inhibit sperm binding to zona-intact oocytes. Similarly, these results were able to be recapitulated using native sperm lysates, the zona affinity of which was dramatically reduced by antibody labeling of the complex receptors, or in the case of the 20S proteasome the ubiquitinated zonae ligands. Overall, the strategies employed in this study have provided novel, causal insights into the molecular mechanisms that govern sperm-egg interaction.
Sperm genome cloning used in biparental bovine embryo reconstruction.	The generation of androgenetic haploid embryos enables several haploid blastomeres to be obtained as identical copies of a single spermatozoon genome. In the present study, we compared the developmental ability of bovine androgenetic haploid embryos constructed by different methods, namely IVF and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) before and after oocyte enucleation. Once obtained, the blastomeres of these androgenetic haploid embryos were used as male genome donors to reconstruct biparental embryos by fusion with matured oocytes. To verify the cytoplasmic contribution of androgenetic haploid blastomeres, we used spermatozoa incubated previously with exogenous DNA that coded for a green fluorescent protein gene (pCX-EGFP) and the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-positive androgenetic haploid blastomeres generated were fused with mature oocytes. Of the reconstructed embryos reaching the cleavage and blastocyst stages, 85.1% and 9.0%, respectively, expressed EGFP (P>0.05). EGFP expression was observed in 100% of reconstructed embryos, with 91.2% exhibiting homogenic expression. To confirm sperm genome incorporation, androgenetic haploid blastomeres generated by ICSI prior to enucleation and using Y chromosome sexed spermatozoa were used for biparental embryo reconstruction. Incorporation of the Y chromosome was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridisation analysis. In conclusion, the results of the present study prove that it is possible to use sperm genome replicates to reconstruct biparental bovine embryos and that it is a highly efficient technique to generate homogeneous transgene-expressing embryos.
Combined effect of DHA and -tocopherol supplementation during bull semen cryopreservation on sperm characteristics and fatty acid composition.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of adding n-3 fatty acids (FA) and -tocopherol (VE) to semen extender on freezing ability and FA composition of bull sperm. Semen was collected from 10 Iranian Holstein bulls and was pooled. In the first experiment, semen was divided into 12 groups including 4 levels of n-3 FA (0, 0.1, 1, 10 ng ml(-1) ) and 3 levels of VE (0, 0.1, 0.2 mmol). The treatment of 0.2 mmol VE and 10 ng ml(-1) n-3 FA had the best post-thawed sperm characteristics (P < 0.01). In the second experiment, lipid composition of the latest treatment and control (without FA and VE) was determined. Adding n-3 FA increased docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) percentage before freezing and after thawing. The ratio of n-3 to n-6 before freezing was higher (P < 0.05) in treated group than in control, and this ratio in the fresh sperm was greater than in the post-thawed sperm (P = 0.1). Results suggested that adding DHA accompanied with an antioxidant to an extender could improve cryosurvival of bull sperm via altering membrane lipid composition.
Impact of male aging in the functional capacity of sperm through the expression of phosphatidyl serine and oligonucleomas]	biomolecular processes associated with aging and programmed cell death during spermatogenesis are well known, but not its biological significance in ejaculated sperm, because it ignores the behavior of these apoptotic markers in relation to the age of man.
Effect of merocianina-540 in the fertilizing capacity of sperm correlated with the expression of 3-OH terminal fragments]	The packaging of heterochromatin during spermatogenesis has been correlated with the expression of residual apoptotic bodies (which stain with merocyanine A) that will impact on sperm function in the fertilization process; as well as the joint expression of the transmembrane translocation phosphatidyl serine and oligonucleosomes.
Low copy number DNA profiling from isolated sperm using the aureka-micromanipulation system.	A new cell isolation technique linked to the aureka micromanipulation system (aureka) was used to pick sperm from mixed samples containing sperm and epithelial cells. Both cell types were stained using the HY-LITER high-resolution, fluorescent staining kit. To isolate a single sperm of interest under a fluorescent microscope, a specific microsphere picking technique was used. This sensitive and reliable cell identification and isolation technique enables low-copy-number (LCN) DNA profiling, as few as 20 sperm are sufficient for obtaining a full short tandem repeat (STR) profile without any allelic drop out. The presented protocol covers the whole workflow, from sample staining and cell pick up to STR analysis.
Effect of benzene exposure on fertility of male workers employed in bulk drug industries.	Industrial workers are constantly exposed to benzene, especially at the production unit. The present investigation explores any association of the outcome of various reproductive malfunctions in terms of infertility and other related factors as a result of benzene exposure.
Pathophysiology of varicocele in male infertility in the era of assisted reproductive technology.	Varicocele is the most common and treatable cause of male infertility. Studies of a rat experimental left varicocele model and human testicular biopsy samples have shown the involvement of various factors in its pathophysiology. Among them, oxidative stress plays a major role in impairing spermatogenesis and sperm function. Therefore, in addition to palpation, scrotal ultrasonography and color Doppler ultrasound, evaluation of testicular oxidative stress (e.g. scrotal temperature is a surrogate parameter) is recommended to enable diagnosis and suitable treatment of varicocele. Varicocelectomy increases the fertilization, pregnancy and live birth rates, indicating improved sperm function; it is therefore important even in couples undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection. Routine sperm-function tests are warranted to monitor the sperm quality after varicocelectomy and consequent improvement in the outcomes of assisted reproductive technology. Furthermore, the indications of varicocelectomy in assisted reproductive technology should be widened.
Sperm gene expression profile is related to pregnancy rate after insemination and is predictive of low fecundity in normozoospermic men.	Assessment of male fertility is traditionally based on microscopic evaluation of semen. However, the classical semen parameters do not adequately reflect sperm function, and their clinical value in predicting fertility is limited. We hypothesize that the sperm expression profile could reflect the fertilizing quality of spermatozoa and could be more informative for predicting the in vivo reproductive fitness of men with normal semen parameters.
Identification of a new mouse sperm acrosome-associated protein.	The binding of capacitated spermatozoa to the egg's extracellular coat and induction of acrosome reaction are necessary for successful fertilization in mammals. Biogenesis of acrosome is complicated, and not all proteins involved in this process are known. In this study, we have cloned a novel mouse gene, Spaca7, that is expressed exclusively in the testes. During the postnatal development, transcripts of the gene could be detected at a very low level in 18-day-old mouse testes and at a higher level in 21-day-old mouse testes and later, which corresponds to an expansion of round spermatids. In the stably transfected PT67 cells, SPACA7 fused with EGFP was predominantly localized in the Golgi apparatus. In transgenic mouse testes, the fusion protein was found in acrosome (starting from the first stages of acrosome formation in late pachytene spermatocytes and finally in spermatozoa isolated from caput and cauda of epididymis). Confocal microscopy studies revealed an intra-acrosomal not membrane-bound localization of SPACA7/EGFP, which suggests that the protein can be released during acrosome reaction and involved in fertilization. Acrosomal localization of endogenous SPACA7 protein was also found in human spermatozoa.
A caged progesterone analog alters intracellular Ca2+ and flagellar bending in human sperm.	Progesterone is a physiological agonist for mammalian sperm, modulating its flagellar movement and facilitating the acrosome reaction. To study the initial action of progesterone, we developed a caged analog with a photosensitive group: nitrophenylethanediol, at position 20. Using this compound combined with stroboscopic illumination, we performed Ca(2)(+) imaging of human spermatozoa and analyzed the effects of progesterone on the intracellular Ca(2)(+) concentration ([Ca(2)(+)](i)) of beating flagella for the first time. We observed a transient [Ca(2)(+)](i) increase in the head and the flagellum upon photolysis of the caged progesterone and an increase in flagellar curvature. Detailed kinetic analysis revealed that progesterone elicits an increase in the [Ca(2)(+)](i) immediately in the flagellum (mid-piece and principal piece), thereafter in the head with a short time lag. This observation is different from the progesterone-induced Ca(2)(+) mobilization in mouse spermatozoa, where the Ca(2)(+) rise initiates at the base of the sperm head. Our finding is mostly consistent with the recent discovery that progesterone activates CatSper channels in human spermatozoa, but not in mouse spermatozoa.
Silver nanoparticle-DNA bionanoconjugates bearing a discrete number of DNA ligands.	Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs), which are stable in strongly ionic solutions and appear as a single sharp band during gel electrophoresis, are synthesized by a facile one-pot process, allowing for the first time realization of AgNP-DNA bio-nano-conjugates bearing a discrete number of DNA ligands.
Cryopreservation of sperm from Neolissochilus benasi]	Cryopreservation of sperm from Neolissochilus benasi was studied in 2011. The effects of various cryoprotectants of different concentrations, dilution ratios of milt to extender, storage volume and thawing temperature on motility of post-thawing of spermatozoa were examined to optimize cryopreservation procedures. Semen was stored in liquid nitrogen in 1.8 mL cryovial for 24 h, and the intensity of sperm motility was measured before and after cryopreservation. Post-thawing motility of frozen sperm obtained with cryoprotectants 10% MeOH or 15% EG were higher than for others. The most effective dilution ratio of milt to extender is 1:7. The maximal storage volume is 60 L of 1.8 mL cryovial and the optimal sperm equilibration period in the extender D-15+10% MeOH was between 10-60 min. Thawing was optimal in a 37 Degrees Celsius water bath. When fresh sperm motility is (62.332.05)%, this cryopreservation protocol resulted in frozen-thawed semen with 20%-30% motile. The overall effect is not ideal, and cannot achieve extensive application. Different breeding management of different ground protection may have contributed to this result. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce stress capture induced in management of parent fish and provide suitable forming conditions. In the ex situ conservation of rare fish the broodstocks management of males is as important as that for females and the key to obtaining high quality larval fish.
The determination of tissue-specific DNA methylation patterns in forensic biofluids using bisulfite modification and pyrosequencing.	The goal of this study is to explore the application of epigenetic markers in the identification of biofluids that are commonly found at the crime scene. A series of genetic loci were examined in order to define epigenetic markers that display differential methylation patterns between blood, saliva, semen, and epithelial tissue. Among the different loci tested, we have identified a panel of markers, C20orf117, ZC3H12D, BCAS4, and FGF7, that can be used in the determination of these four tissue types. Since methylation modifications occur at cytosine bases that are immediately followed by guanine bases (CpG sites), methylation levels were measured at CpG sites spanning each marker. Up to 11 samples of each tissue type were collected and subjected to bisulfite modification to convert unmethylated CpG-associated cytosine bases to thymine bases. The bisulfite modified DNA was then amplified via nested PCR using a primer set of which one primer was biotin labeled. Biotinylated PCR products were in turn analyzed and the methylation level at each CpG site was quantitated by pyrosequencing. The percent methylation values at each CpG site were determined and averaged for each tissue type. The results indicated significant methylation differences between the tissue types. The methylation patterns at the ZC3H12D and FGF7 loci differentiated sperm from blood, saliva, and epithelial cells. The C20orf117 locus differentiated blood from sperm, saliva, and epithelial cells and saliva was differentiated from blood, sperm, and epithelial cells at a fourth locus, BCAS4. The results of this study demonstrate the applicability of epigenetic markers as a novel tool for the determination of biofluids using bisulfite modification and pyrosequencing.
Phage display allows identification of zona pellucida-binding peptides with species-specific properties: novel approach for development of contraceptive vaccines for wildlife.	Multiple phage-peptide constructs, where the peptides mimic sperm epitopes that bind to zona pellucida (ZP) proteins, were generated via selection from a phage display library using a novel approach. Selections were designed to allow for identification of ZP-binding phage clones with potential species-specific properties, an important feature for wildlife oral vaccines as the goal is to control overpopulation of a target species while not affecting non-target species' reproduction. Six phage-peptide antigens were injected intramuscularly into pigs and corresponding immune responses evaluated. Administration of the antigens into pigs stimulated production of anti-peptide antibodies, which were shown to act as anti-sperm antibodies. Potentially, such anti-sperm antibodies could interfere with sperm delivery or function in the male or female genital tract, leading to contraceptive effects. Staining of semen samples collected from different mammalian species, including pig, cat, dog, bull, and mouse, with anti-sera from pigs immunized with ZP-binding phage allowed identification of phage-peptide constructs with different levels of species specificity. Based on the intensity of the immune responses and specificity of these responses in different species, two of the antigens with fusion peptide sequences GEGGYGSHD and GQQGLNGDS were recognized as the most promising candidates for development of contraceptive vaccines for wild pigs.
Sperm phosphoproteomics: historical perspectives and current methodologies.	Mammalian sperm are differentiated germ cells that transfer genetic material from the male to the female. Owing to this essential role in the reproductive process, an understanding of the complex mechanisms that underlie sperm function has implications ranging from the development of novel contraceptives to the treatment of male infertility. While the importance of phosphorylation in sperm differentiation, maturation and fertilization has been well established, the ability to directly determine the sites of phosphorylation within sperm proteins and to quantitate the extent of phosphorylation at these sites is a recent development that has relied almost exclusively on advances in the field of proteomics. This review will summarize the work that has been carried out to date on sperm phosphoproteomics and discuss how the resulting qualitative and quantitative information has been used to provide insight into the manner in which protein phosphorylation events modulate sperm function. The authors also present the proteomics process as it is most often utilized for the elucidation of protein expression, with a particular emphasis on the way in which the process has been modified for the analysis of protein phosphorylation in sperm.
The effect of the follicular fluid on sperm chromatin quality in comparison with conventional media.	Follicular fluid (FF) is biological fluid rich in nutrients, growth factors, hormones and may affect the sperm quality. Sperm washing has been done using conventional media in laboratory procedure so far.
A simple method to identify ether lipids in spermatozoa samples by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.	Plasmalogens (alkenylacyl glycerophospholipids) are important lipid constituents of many tissues and cells (e.g., selected spermatozoa). Since the molecular weights of plasmalogens overlap with that of diacyl- or alkyl acyl lipids, sophisticated mass spectrometry (MS; including MS/MS) analysis is normally used for the unequivocal identification of plasmalogens. We will show here that a simple matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometer (without MS/MS capability) in combination with acidic hydrolysis and subsequent derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) and/or digestion with phospholipase A2 (PLA2) is sufficient to determine the contributions of ether lipids in spermatozoa extracts. As neither diacyl nor alkylacyl lipids are sensitive to acids and do not react with DNPH, the comparison of the mass spectra before and after treatment with acids and/or DNPH addition readily provides unequivocal information about the plasmalogen content. Additionally, the released aldehydes are readily converted into the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones and can be easily identified in the corresponding negative ion mass spectra. Finally, PLA2 digestion is very useful in confirming the presence of plasmalogens. The suggested method was validated by analyzing roe deer, bovine, boar, and domestic cat spermatozoa extracts and comparing the results with isolated phospholipids. 
Detection of the Wolbachia protein WPIP0282 in mosquito spermathecae: implications for cytoplasmic incompatibility.	Cytoplasmic incompatibility (CI) is a conditional sterility induced by the bacterium Wolbachia pipientis that infects reproductive tissues in many arthropods. Although CI provides a potential tool to control insect vectors of arthropod-borne diseases, the molecular basis for CI induction is unknown. We hypothesized that a Wolbachia-encoded, CI-inducing factor would be enriched in sperm recovered from spermathecae of female mosquitoes. Using SDS-PAGE and mass spectrometry, we detected peptides from the 56kDa hypothetical protein, encoded by wPip_0282, associated with sperm transferred to females by Wolbachia infected males. We also detected peptides from the same protein in Wolbachia infected ovaries. Homologs of wPip_0282 and the co-transcribed downstream gene, wPip_0283, occur as multiple divergent copies in genomes of CI-inducing strains of Wolbachia. The operon is located in a genomic context that includes mobile genetic elements. The absence of wPip_0282 and wPip_0283 homologs from genomes of Wolbachia in filarial nematodes, as well as other members of the Rickettsiales, suggests a role as a candidate CI effector. 
The application of proteomic approaches to the study of mammalian spermatogenesis and sperm function.	Spermatogenesis is the process by which terminally differentiated sperm are produced from male germline stem cells. This complex developmental process requires the coordination of both somatic and germ cells through phases of proliferation, meiosis, and morphological differentiation, to produce the cell responsible for the delivery of the paternal genome. With infertility affecting ~ 15% of all couples, furthering our understanding of spermatogenesis and sperm function is vital for improving the diagnosis and treatment of male factor infertility. The emerging use of proteomic technologies has played an instrumental role in our understanding of spermatogenesis by providing information regarding the genes involved. This article reviews existing proteomic literature regarding spermatogenesis and sperm function, including the proteomic characterization of spermatogenic cell types, subcellular proteomics, post-translational modifications, interactomes, and clinical studies. Future directions in the application of proteomics to the study of spermatogenesis and sperm function are also discussed.
Evaluation of human sperm chromatin status after selection using a modified Diff-Quik stain indicates embryo quality and pregnancy outcomes following in vitro fertilization.	Sperm chromatin/DNA damage can be measured by a variety of assays. However, it has been reported that these tests may lose prognostic value in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) cycles when assessed in post-prepared samples, possibly due to the normalizing effect promoted by sperm preparation procedures. We have recently implemented a modified version of the Diff-Quik staining assay that allows for the evaluation of human sperm chromatin status in native samples, together with standard sperm morphology assessment. However, the value of this parameter in terms of predicting in vitro fertilization (IVF) and Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) outcomes after sperm selection is unknown. In this study, data from 138 couples undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) or Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatments showed that sperm chromatin integrity was significantly improved after density gradient centrifugation and swim up (p<0.001), but no correlations were found with fertilization or embryo development rates (p>0.05). However, sperm samples presenting lower percentages of damaged chromatin were associated with better quality (Grade I) embryos in both ART procedures (p<0.05) and clinical pregnancy among IVF couples (p<0.05). Furthermore, regression analysis confirmed the clinical value of Diff-Quik staining in predicting IVF (but not ICSI) clinical pregnancy (OR: 0.927, 95% CI: 0.871-0.985, p=0.015), and a threshold value of 34.25% for this parameter was established. The proportion of IVF couples achieving a clinical pregnancy was reduced 1.9-fold when the percentage of abnormal dark staining was 34.25% (p=0.05). In conclusion, the Diff-Quik staining assay provides useful information regarding ART success, particularly in IVF cycles, where some degree of 'natural' sperm selection may occur; but not in ICSI, where sperm selection is operator dependent. This quick and low-cost assay is suggested as an alternative method to detect sperm chromatin status in minimal clinical settings, when no other well-established and robust assays (e.g. Sperm chromatin structure assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUDP nick-end labelling) are available. 
Application of sex-selected semen in heifer development and breeding programs.	The only practicable method for sexing mammalian sperm is by measuring DNA content with a flow cytometer/cell sorter. Although many other methods have been tried and patented, they either are inaccurate, damage sperm severely, or otherwise are unsuitable for practical application. Procedures for sexing sperm damage them slightly, and fewer sperm are packaged per straw than with unsexed semen. These 2 characteristics result in lower fertility with sexed than unsexed semen. Incremental improvements of current sexing procedures are being developed constantly. 
Double-stranded DNA breaks hidden in the neutral Comet assay suggest a role of the sperm nuclear matrix in DNA integrity maintenance.	We used a mouse model in which sperm DNA damage was induced to understand the relationship of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) breaks to sperm chromatin structure and to the Comet assay. Sperm chromatin fragmentation (SCF) produces dsDNA breaks located on the matrix attachment regions, between protamine toroids. In this model, epididymal sperm induced to undergo SCF can religate dsDNA breaks while vas deferens sperm cannot. Here, we demonstrated that the conventional neutral Comet assay underestimates the epididymal SCF breaks because the broken DNA ends remain attached to the nuclear matrix, causing the DNA to remain associated with the dispersion halo, and the Comet tails to be weak. Therefore, we term these hidden dsDNA breaks. When the Comet assay was modified to include an additional incubation with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and dithiothreitol (DTT) after the conventional lysis, thereby solubilizing the nuclear matrix, the broken DNA was released from the matrix, which resulted in a reduction of the sperm head halo and an increase in the Comet tail length, exposing the hidden dsDNA breaks. Conversely, SCF-induced vas deferens sperm had small halos and long tails with the conventional neutral Comet assay, suggesting that the broken DNA ends were not tethered to the nuclear matrix. These results suggest that the attachment to the nuclear matrix is crucial for the religation of SCF-induced DNA breaks in sperm. Our data suggest that the neutral Comet assay identifies only dsDNA breaks that are released from the nuclear matrix and that the addition of an SDS treatment can reveal these hidden dsDNA breaks. 
Yolk proteins in the male reproductive system of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster: spatial and temporal patterns of expression.	In insects, spermatozoa develop in the testes as clones of single spermatogonia covered by specialized somatic cyst cells (cc). Upon completion of spermatogenesis, spermatozoa are released to the vas deferens, while the cc remain in the testes and die. In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, the released spermatozoa first reach the seminal vesicles (SV), the organ where post-testicular maturation begins. Here, we demonstrate the temporal (restricted to the evening and early night hours) accumulation of membranous vesicles containing proteins in the SV lumen of D.melanogaster. When SV vesicles were isolated from the semen and co-incubated with testis-derived spermatozoa invitro, their contents bound to the spermatozoa along their tails. The proteins of the SV vesicles were then characterized using 2-D electrophoresis. We identified a prominent protein spot of around 45-47kDa, which disappears from the SV vesicles in the night, i.e. shortly after they appear in the SV lumen. Sequencing of peptides derived from this spot by mass spectrometry revealed identity with three yolk proteins (YP1-3). This unexpected result was confirmed by western blotting, which demonstrated that SV vesicles contain proteins that are immunoreactive with an antibody against D.melanogaster YP1-3. The expression of all yp genes was shown to be a unique feature of testis tissues. Using RNA probes we found that their transcripts localize exclusively to the cc that cover fully developed spermatozoa in the distal part of each testis. Temporally, the expression of yp genes was found to be restricted to a short period during the day and is followed by the evening accumulation of YP proteins in the cc. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed that cc are the source of SV vesicles containing YPs that are released into the SV lumen. These vesicles interact with spermatozoa and as a result, YPs become extrinsic proteins of the sperm membrane. Thus, we describe for the first time the expression of yolk proteins in the male reproductive system of D.melanogaster under physiological conditions, and show that somatic cells of the testes are the source of these proteins. 
Semen quality in HIV patients under stable antiretroviral therapy is impaired compared to WHO 2010 reference values and on sperm proteome level.	To investigate semen quality in HIV patients under stable antiretroviral therapy (ART) compared with WHO 2010 reference values and on the sperm proteome level.
Evidence of beta 1 integrins and fibronectin on spermatogenic cells in human testis.	Interactions between human spermatozoa and oocytes are an essential event in the process of fertilization. Cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions in somatic cells are mediated by adhesion molecules such as beta 1 integrins (very late antigens; VLA). Therefore, we investigated the expression of beta 1 integrins and the matrix proteins collagen IV, fibronectin and laminin in human testis by immunohistology. Monoclonal antibodies against the beta chain of beta 1 integrins reacted with the basement membrane of the tubuli seminiferi, spermatocytes, spermatids and testicular spermatozoa. The alpha 3, -5 and -6 chains of beta 1 integrins showed the same pattern, whereas, the alpha 1, -2 and -4 chains could not be detected on spermatogenic cells. These VLA subunits were localized on endothelial cells, leukocytes and basement membranes. Matrix proteins such as laminin, collagen IV and fibronectin were detectable as components of basement membranes in human testis. Germinal cells except spermatogonia expressed fibronectin only. These results demonstrate that beta 1 integrins and matrix proteins in human testis are normally expressed on somatic tissue and that germinal cells, especially spermatocytes, spermatids and spermatozoa show positive reactions with antibodies against the VLA-3, -5 and -6 complexes and fibronectin. These findings suggest a production of beta 1 integrins and fibronectin during the spermatogenesis and a role of these proteins in adhesive mechanisms of spermatozoa similar to somatic cell-cell or cell-matrix interactions.
The regulation of sperm motility by a novel hyaluronan receptor.	To determine if a novel receptor for hyaluronan, termed RHAMM, is responsible for the previously observed increase in sperm locomotion in response to hyaluronan and to assess whether expression of the RHAMM protein is involved in sperm motility.
Detection of antibodies toward epididymal sperm antigens--an obligatory step in evaluation of human immunologic infertility?	To test the relative impact of epididymal versus ejaculated sperm in immunologic infertility.
Localization of intracellular calcium during the acrosome reaction in ram spermatozoa.	Calcium was identified by a pyroantimonate-osmium fixation technique in ram spermatozoa undergoing a spontaneous acrosome reaction induced by incubation of diluted semen at 39 degrees C. Intracellular calcium was only detected in diluted spermatozoa and increased in amount and distribution over 4 hr At 4 hr, the majority of the spermatozoa displayed ultrastructural evidence of an acrosome reaction. Calcium was initially evident on the outer acrosomal membrane in multiparticulate clusters, which were seen to be located on scalloped crests of acrosomal membrane as fusion developed; it was also located in the region of the acrosomal ridge beneath the outer acrosomal membrane. Vesiculation commenced just anterior to the equatorial segment and proceeded anteriorly. As vesiculation advanced, calcium particles became associated with the periphery of the vesicles attached in the region of the fusion between the two membranes, but were never seen inside the vesicles. The equatorial segment was not labelled until much later in the reaction, at which time calcium particles were also evident on the nuclear membrane; vesiculation of the equatorial segment was also noted at this time. Dense labelling of the postacrosomal dense lamina was seen in all incubated spermatozoa. At the anterior margin of this structure the labelling was seen to be in a "sawtooth" arrangement. The disposition of the calcium both temporally and spatially is discussed in relation to its possible mechanisms in bringing about membrane fusion.
Genome organisation in the murine sperm nucleus.	The organisation of DNA sequences in the murine sperm nucleus was studied using in situ hybridisation of biotinylated DNA probes. The efficiency of this reaction was assessed using a dispersed repetitive DNA probe. Telomeric DNA was distributed around the nucleus. Centromeric and ribosomal DNA sequences occupied restricted domains in the sperm nucleus. DNA sequences for a transgene and a cluster of homeogenes occupied different, and rather less defined, domains. Together these results imply that both repetitive and protein-coding sequences are arranged in the nucleus in an ordered fashion.
Identification of porcine sperm plasma membrane proteins that may play a role in sperm-egg fusion.	Sperm plasma membrane (PM) proteins that demonstrate affinity for egg PM preparations have the potential to be biologically important during sperm-egg binding and/or fusion. In this study four such proteins have been identified. To provide quantitative evidence for possible biological function, the large natural variation among different porcine sperm populations with regard to their ability to interact with the egg was compared with the relative binding of egg PM material to individual proteins. An aliquot from each of 24 porcine ejaculates was evaluated by the zona-free hamster ova bioassay and the remainder processed to yield sperm PM vesicles. Aliquots of sperm PM were solubilised, separated by SDS-PAGE, western blotted and probed with partially purified, biotinylated egg PM protein. Bound egg PM proteins were visualised on western blots by an avidin/biotin/horseradish peroxidase system and analysed by scanning laser densitometry. Four sperm PM proteins (62, 39, 27 and 7 kDa estimated molecular mass) were the predominant binders of egg PM. The amount of egg PM bound to the 62 kDa protein was significantly correlated with the ability of sperm from the 24 ejaculates to penetrate zona-free hamster ova (percentage of ova penetrated, p = 0.01, R = 0.65; number of penetrated sperm per ovum, p = 0.02, R = 0.63).
A cytosolic sperm factor triggers calcium oscillations and membrane hyperpolarizations in human oocytes.	Intracellular free Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) and membrane potentials were measured in mature human oocytes. Injection of cytosolic extracts made from human or hamster spermatozoa triggered oscillations in [Ca2+]i in human oocytes similar to those described previously in mouse and hamster oocytes. In contrast, injection of carrier buffer caused no [Ca2+]i increase and injection of Ca(2+)-containing solutions caused only a single [Ca2+]i transient. Injection of human sperm extracts also triggered [Ca2+]i oscillations in mature mouse oocytes. The [Ca2+]i oscillations in human oocytes were accompanied by hyperpolarizations in membrane potential. Perfusing oocytes with the sulphydryl reagent thimerosal also caused oscillations in the free [Ca2+]i concentration simultaneously with membrane potential hyperpolarizations. These data suggest that human oocytes possess a similar mechanism for generating [Ca2+]i oscillations to those described in other mammalian oocytes and a membrane potential response similar to that seen previously specifically in hamster oocytes. The data also support the view that human oocytes are activated at fertilization by diffusion of a protein from the spermatozoa into the ooplasm after gamete membrane fusion.
Two-dimensional electrophoretic profile of human sperm membrane proteins.	The purpose of this study was to characterize highly enriched human spermatozoa membrane proteins by two-dimensional electrophoresis and computer image analysis. Sperm membrane proteins were extracted by detergent solubilization from three different preparations: 1) washed semen cells following centrifugation and three wash steps in Ham's F-10 medium (the standard sperm preparation, which is contaminated with seminal immature germ cells, white blood cells, and acellular material), 2) the motile sperm fraction following centrifugation of diluted semen cells through a Percoll density gradient to enrich (> 98%) the viable mature sperm population, and 3) sperm membrane vesicles isolated from Percoll-purified motile mature sperm by nitrogen cavitation followed by differential centrifugation. The two-dimensional gel profiles of extracts of washed semen cells and motile spermatozoa contained more than 600 protein spots between pH 4 and 7 and apparent molecular mass ranging from 7.9 to 93.5 kDa. Only 73% of the major proteins in these two samples matched by computer image analysis. The highly enriched sperm membrane vesicle extract showed a much simpler protein pattern, with only 64 major protein spots, 61 of which could be matched with proteins detected in extracts from purified motile sperm. The isoelectric point and molecular weight coordinates of these major human sperm membrane proteins could serve as a foundation for systematic isolation and further characterization of human sperm antigens for studies of mechanisms of fertilization and the development of contraceptive vaccines.
Dual DNA staining assessment of bovine sperm viability using SYBR-14 and propidium iodide.	A new membrane-permeant DNA stain, SYBR-14, was used in combination with propidium iodide (PI) to estimate the proportion of living sperm in bovine semen. The SYBR-14 stained living sperm while PI only stained degenerate cells that had lost their membrane integrity. Staining with SYBR-14 resulted in the nuclei of living sperm fluorescing bright green. Aliquots containing nearly all living bovine sperm were prepared using glass wool/Sephadex filtration to remove dead and damaged cells. A portion of this filtered sample was killed by unprotected freeze-thawing and used to provide mixed aliquots containing known ratios of living and dead sperm. Flow cytometry was used to assess the green and red fluorescence of these mixtures. The percentages of living sperm, as determined by the log of green fluorescence, were 85.1, 68.8, 39.8, 20.7, and 1.4 for ratios of 100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, and 0:100 of the filtered, killed mixtures. Also, bovine semen was diluted 1:60 in HEPES-0.1% bovine serum albumin and incubated for 0, 3, 6, and 24 hours at 36 degrees C to assess changes in cell viability. As cell death occurred during this incubation period, a relatively rapid transition of staining from green to red occurred as sperm died. Three replicates of cryopreserved sperm from six bulls were also examined using SYBR-14 and PI to assess the proportion of living and dead cells. Flow cytometric analyses of these samples, which had been processed and stored in homogenized milk, indicated that this stain combination was useful in assessing the quality of cryopreserved sperm. The combination of SYBR-14 and PI was determined to be an effective tool for assessing the viability of fresh or cryopreserved sperm.
Fluorescence polarization studies of the binding of BMS 181176 to DNA.	The DNA binding of BMS 181176, an antitumor antibiotic derivative of rebeccamycin was characterized by DNA unwinding assays, as well as by fluorescence emission and polarization spectroscopic techniques. Unwinding and rewinding of supercoiled DNA was interpreted in terms of intercalation of BMS 181176 into DNA. BMS 181176 shows an enhanced fluorescence emission upon binding to the AT sequence and no enhancement upon binding to the GC sequence. BMS 181176 appears to be a weaker binder to poly(dAdT).poly(dAdT) compared to doxorubicin and ethidium bromide. When bound to DNA, the rotational motion of BMS 181176 is substantially decreased as evident from the increase in fluorescence polarization. BMS 181176 exhibits a range of binding strengths depending on the DNA. This is demonstrated by the Acridine Orange displacement assay using fluorescence polarization.
Immunocytochemical detection of actin and 53 kDa polypeptide in the epididymal spermatozoa of rat and mouse.	Presence of immunocytochemically detectable actin in the rat and mouse sperm head has been enigmatic for years. In this study, we demonstrate actin in the perinuclear theca and show that the detection of actin epitopes in the rat and mouse epididymal spermatozoa can effectively be enhanced by pre-extraction of sperm cells with SDS.
Glycosylated boar spermadhesin AWN-1 isoforms. Biological origin, structural characterization by lectin mapping, localization of O-glycosylation sites, and effect of glycosylation on ligand binding.	Spermadhesin AWN-1 is a 133-residues boar sperm surface lectin with capability to bind different ligands, e.g. glycoproteins from zona pellucida (ZP), soybean trypsin inhibitor and heparin, and is involved in capacitation and binding of spermatozoa to the homologous zona pellucida. Here, we report the characterization of N- and O-glycosylated isoforms of AWN-1. Non-glycosylated AWN-1 is present in seminal plasma and on epididymal and ejaculated spermatozoa whereas its N- and O-glycosylated isoforms are only secretory products of the seminal vesicles. Lectin mapping indicated the presence of the glycosylated AWN-1 isoform mixture of both fucosylated and non-fucosylated N-glycans, and of two different classes of O-linked carbohydrate chains. These N- and O-linked oligosaccharide chains are neither sialylated nor contain terminal Gal beta (1-4)-GlcNAc sequences. Noteworthy, N- and O-glycosylation (either class) are mutually exclusive on the same protein molecule, indicating that each glycosylated AWN-1 molecule contains a single oligosaccharide chain. Peptide mapping was used to locate the N- and the O-glycosylation sites. Glycosylation of AWN-1 with either of the carbohydrate chain types greatly impaired the ability of the spermadhesin to bind biotinylated zona pellucida glycoproteins and soybean trypsin inhibitor, suggesting that the blocking effect may be due to steric hindrance of the ligand-binding pocket.
Putative rat sperm lipid-binding protein: isolation and partial characterization.	Previous work has identified a prominent 22-24-kD protein that is present in rat male reproductive tissues, including epididymis and testis (Brooks, 1985; Jones and Brown, 1987; Moore et al., 1987). Using a monoclonal antibody (designated mAb-B109) against this 24-kD antigen (referred to as B109), we have isolated the protein using a combination of chromatofocusing and electroelution from SDS-PAGE gels, and reverse phase HPLC. B109 (pI = 4.8) is amino-terminal blocked. To obtain internal amino acid sequences, the isolated protein was cleaved either with cyanogen bromide in 70% formic acid or with TLCK-treated chymotrypsin. With cyanogen bromide treatment, two peptides, 17.8 kD and 11.9 kD, were isolated and partial amino acid sequences obtained. Chymotryptic peptides were isolated by reverse-phase HPLC and two were chosen for sequence analysis. A computer search for sequence homology through the protein identification resource (PIR) matched B109 to a basic 21-kD cytosolic protein (pI = 7.4) found in bovine brain (> 80% homology). When peptide sequence differences obtained in the present study were substituted into the 21-kD cytosolic protein sequence obtained from the PIR using Intelligenetics software, the calculated pI dropped from 7.4 to 5.8, suggesting that pI differences between the bovine and rat molecules are the result of amino acid substitutions in the testis protein and not tissue-specific posttranslational processing. It has been postulated that the 21-kD bovine brain protein is associated with phospholipid transport, although the function of B109 is unknown.
Human SP-10: acrosomal distribution, processing, and fate after the acrosome reaction.	SP-10 is a testis-specific acrosomal protein that has been detected in several species including humans. Extracts from whole human testis and epididymal, ejaculated, and capacitated sperm were analyzed by Western blot for SP-10 polypeptides. The testis extracts contained a full-length SP-10 protein at approximately 45 kDa as well as other immunoreactive SP-10 peptides at 32, 30, 28, and 26 kDa. Extracts from epididymal, ejaculated, and capacitated sperm contained several immunoreactive SP-10 peptides that co-migrated with the 32-26-kDa SP-10 peptides in the testis extracts. Epididymal, ejaculated, and capacitated sperm extracts did not contain the 45-kDa SP-10 peptide observed in testis extracts, but did contain immunoreactive SP-10 peptides from 25 to 18 kDa that were not detected in testis extracts. These results indicate that a full-length 45-kDa SP-10 precursor protein is present in the testis and that SP-10 peptides of 32, 30, 28, and 26 kDa result from proteolytic processing of the SP-10 precursor protein in the testis and/or alternative splicing. In addition, SP-10 peptides of 25-18 kDa were first detected in extracts of caput epididymal sperm and probably resulted from the proteolytic processing of the 45- and 32-26-kDa SP-10 peptides in the initial segment or caput epididymidis. Also, no additional SP-10 bands were detected in extracts of cauda epididymal, ejaculated, or capacitated sperm, suggesting that no further processing of the 32-18-kDa SP-10 peptides occurred during epididymal transit, ejaculation, and capacitation. Electron microscopic immunocytochemical observations of epididymal, ejaculated, and capacitated sperm revealed that colloidal gold labeling of SP-10 was most abundant within the principal segment and posterior bulb of the equatorial segment of the acrosome, while the colloidal gold labeling of SP-10 was sparse in the anterior equatorial segment of the acrosome. After a follicular fluid-induced acrosome reaction, SP-10 was detected on the inner acrosomal membrane in the equatorial segment and was associated with hybrid vesicles. This localization after the acrosome reaction is consistent with the hypothesis that SP-10 may be involved in sperm-zona binding or penetration.
Role of zinc during hamster sperm capacitation.	Zinc stabilizes somatic cell membranes and DNA, inhibits respiration, is present in high concentrations in the male reproductive tract, and may stabilize sperm during storage and ejaculation. Zinc removal from sperm may be necessary to prepare sperm for fertilization (capacitation). Incubation with Zn2+ chelators, e.g., D-penicillamine, can capacitate hamster sperm (Andrews and Bavister, Gamete Res 1989; 23:159-70). In the present study, the Zn(2+)-specific fluorochrome N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-toluenesulfonamide (TSQ) and the vital stain propidium iodide were used to assess the zinc content of live hamster sperm with flow cytometry before and after capacitation. Capacitation was monitored with a salt-stored zona pellucida penetration assay or the occurrence of spontaneous or induced (with lysophosphatidylcholine) acrosome reactions. The effect of added zinc on sperm capacitation was also evaluated. Image Analysis was used to determine the subcellular location of zinc (TSQ fluorescence) and atomic absorption to determine whether the total zinc content of sperm changes during capacitation. Sperm incubated under non-capacitating conditions had high TSQ fluorescence and could not penetrate zonae pellucidae. Sperm incubated under capacitating conditions (plus BSA or D-penicillamine) were zinc-depleted (low fluorescence) and penetrated 90% or 78% of zonae, respectively. Image analysis showed a significant reduction in zinc in the acrosomal region during capacitation with BSA, but this did not correlate with the occurrence of spontaneous acrosome reactions. The atomic absorption data showed that the total zinc content of sperm was reduced by 44% or 40% when sperm were incubated under capacitating conditions (BSA or D-penicillamine, respectively). Zona pellucida penetration was completely inhibited when zinc was present throughout the capacitation period but not when it was added at the end of incubation. These data indicate that removal of zinc from hamster sperm is correlated with capacitation and may play a key regulatory role in this process.
Inhibition of in vivo fertilization by active immunization of male hamsters against a 26-kDa sperm glycoprotein.	We have identified a 26-kDa (P26h) epididymal hamster sperm glycoprotein with a species-specific affinity for zona pellucida glycoprotein. Two immunological procedures have been used to document the biological function of this sperm component; active immunization of males against P26h and inhibition of sperm-zona pellucida binding in vitro by anti-P26h antibodies. The immunized male hamsters produced circulating antibodies specific to P26h. Indirect immunofluorescence studies showed that these antibodies bind to the surface of the sperm covering the acrosome. These males were mated with superovulated females, and although spermatozoa were recovered from the genital tract, none of the 194 oocytes recovered were fertilized. In contrast, control males immunized with hamster albumin fertilized 97.4% of the oocytes. Unlike control spermatozoa, those recovered from the cauda epididymidis of males immunized with P26h were characterized by the presence of antibodies at the surface of the acrosome. To establish whether the inhibition of in vivo fertilization by active immunization was occurring at the level of sperm-zona pellucida interaction, a polyclonal antiserum against P26h was raised, and the IgG fraction was added to an in vitro sperm-zona pellucida assay. Compared to the preimmune serum, the IgG inhibited the binding of spermatozoa in a dose-dependent manner. The Fab fragments generated from these IgGs were almost as efficient in inhibiting the binding. These results are discussed with regard to a possible function of P26h in hamster gamete interaction.
Cellular effects of image diagnostic ultrasound on murine spermatogenesis monitored by flow cytometry.	A study has been carried out to evaluate the possible cellular effects induced by image diagnostic ultrasound on murine spermatogenetic cells. Exposure to ultrasound was carried out using a commercial diagnostic instrument that operates in B-mode. Male hybrid F1 mice, aged 8-10 weeks, were exposed to ultrasound for 30 min and observed from 7 to 35 days after treatment. Flow cytometric analysis has been used to monitor the relative frequency of the different types of spermatogenetic cells. This analytical approach showed changes in cell frequency in the compartment containing elongated spermatids which was used as an endpoint. A statistically significant decrease in the frequency of this cell type was observed 21, 28 and 35 days after exposure. These changes suggest that there may be a cytotoxic and/or cytostatic effect on spermatocytes and spermatogonia. These results showed that image diagnostic ultrasound induces effects on murine spermatogenesis at cellular level and that the flow cytometric approach makes it possible to identify quantitative cellular changes with reference to specific cell type.
Spermatology, a whole separate discipline]	The diagnosis of semen anomalies is mainly subjective and requires therefore extensive training. Presently, no automated technology, no recent exam has proven to be superior to the spermogram and the analysis of sperm penetration into cervical mucus for the diagnosis and prognosis of male infertility. Furthermore, the preparation of an abnormal semen for insemination or IVF requires a good experience of the different techniques and a lot of time. Even when the number of motile spermatozoa recovered reaches normal values, the pregnancy rate is always low when compared with the results obtained with a normal sperm.
Sex-associated differences in protein 1 values in urine: immunochemical detection of protein 1 in genital tissues.	Immunochemical methods were used to analyse sex-associated differences in urinary protein 1 concentration. Spot urine from seven normal men and seven women of reproductive age was collected in four sequentially divided fractions, and protein 1 concentration in each fraction was measured by an enzyme immunoassay using the sandwich method: protein 1 values in the first of the sequential urine samples from the male subjects were remarkably high (81.4 +/- 80.4 micrograms/l; mean +/- 1 SD), but were much lower in the remaining three fractions. In females, on the other hand, protein 1 values were low (0.7 +/- 0.4 microgram/l), were uniform in all four sequential fractions, and were close to those of the last three fractions of urine from male subjects. Based on this finding, protein 1 concentration was measured in 14 specimens of seminal plasma, where concentration of protein 1 was high (1259.1 +/- 1716.5 micrograms/l; range, 201.9 to 6580.0 micrograms/l). On Western blotting, protein 1 in seminal plasma had a molecular mass of M(r) 14,000, the same as that of protein 1 purified from the urine of patients with chronic renal failure of probable plasma origin, and of concentrated male urine collected at the initiation of voiding, which is thus thought to come mainly from genital tissue. Protein 1 was found to be in high concentration (434.8 +/- 504.6 micrograms/l) in five aspirated fluids collected at the ejaculatory duct after squeezing the prostate. Three prostate tissue extracts contained protein 1 concentrations ranging from 8.6 to 50.1 micrograms/l. Protein 1 is also present in seminal vesicle fluids (7.1 +/- 2.8 micrograms/l; range, 2.3 to 9.5 micrograms/l).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunohistological localization of clusterin in the male genital tract in humans and marmosets.	Clusterin is a multifunctional protein, first described in the reproductive tracts of the rat and the ram. It is produced by several cell types and exists in at least two differentially glycosylated forms. The aim of this study was to extend knowledge of clusterin expression in the primate (human and marmoset) male reproductive tracts by means of clusterin-specific immunohistochemical techniques. In both normal and abnormal testicular tissue, clusterin was found in association with Sertoli cells, lumenal sperm, proacrosomal Golgi complexes, residual bodies, and degenerating germ cells. The major differences observed between the two groups were attributable primarily to morphological differences rather than to clusterin expression specifically. There was no correlation between testicular clusterin content and the cause and severity of spermatogenic disorders. Within normal epididymides, regional differences in clusterin staining similar to those reported in the rat were observed. The seminal vesicles contained large amounts of positive clusterin staining, whereas normal human prostate was completely negative. Low levels of clusterin expression were observed in the marmoset prostate. This study suggests that clusterin is an important and widespread product in the human and marmoset reproductive tracts and is likely to have a role in spermatogenesis.
Activity and form of sulfated glycoprotein 2 (clusterin) from cultured Sertoli cells, testis, and epididymis of the rat.	Sulfated glycoprotein 2 (SGP 2) is a 73-kDa highly glycosylated disulfide-linked heterodimer. It is a major secreted protein of Sertoli cells, is found in high abundance within the seminiferous tubule fluid (STF) and epididymal fluid (EPF), and can be found on the surface of spermatozoa. Due to its high abundance and location it is believed to play a major role in the development of spermatozoa; however, its specific function(s) within the reproductive tract is not known. Purified and renatured SGP 2 were found to have the ability to inhibit complement activity with a mean concentration of 66 mg/ml for 50% inhibition. Extraction of epididymal sperm with various reagents showed that a major fraction of the SGP 2 in EPF was free or was loosely associated with the spermatozoa whereas a smaller fraction was more tightly associated and disruption of the lipid bilayer was required for its complete removal. Ultracentrifugation techniques and gel permeation chromatography revealed that SGP 2 in plasma, STF, and EPF formed complexes with other proteins and/or lipids but was not specifically associated with the apolipoprotein-like particles containing apolipoprotein A1 (apo A1).
The effects of in vitro cocaine exposure on human sperm motility, intracellular calcium, and oocyte penetration.	To determine if cocaine exposure affects human sperm motility, intracellular calcium level, and fertilizing capability.
Human papillomavirus gene sequences in washed human sperm deoxyribonucleic acid.	The present study demonstrated the presence of HPV gene sequences in Percoll-washed sperm cells using polymerase chain reaction primers targeting smaller gene regions. Up to 64% of the sperm specimens were shown to contain gene sequences indicative of the presence of HPV. Human papillomavirus type 16 was detected about twice as often as HPV type 18. The results suggest the possible role of sperm as a vector for HPV.
A relationship between sperm count and intracellular progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, and cortisol concentrations in human spermatozoa.	In an attempt to determine whether human spermatozoa contain steroid hormones, in this study we have measured the immunoreactive levels of P, 17 alpha-OHP, and F in the extracts of sonicated specimens of sperms obtained as ejaculates from husbands of infertile couples. The results of this study demonstrate for the first time that human spermatozoa contain definite amounts of the measured steroids and suggests an association between steroid levels and sperm count. These steroids identified intracellularly in the haploid germ cells may play a role in the molecular events associated with fertilization.
Histochemical analysis of rat testicular glycoconjugates. 3. Non-reducing terminal residues in seminiferous tubules.	Lectins of Helix pomatia (HPA), Glycine max (SBA), Vicia villosa (VVA), Dolichos biflorus (DBA), Ulex europaeus (UEA-1), Tetragonolobus purpureus (LTA), Griffonia simplicifolia (BSA-1B4), Maclura pomifera (MPA), Sambucus nigra (SNA) and Maackia amurensis (MAA) were used to explore the distribution of saccharides characteristic of non-reducing termini of O- and N-linked glycoprotein glycans in the seminiferous tubules of rat testis. Sialyl residues (both alpha 2,3- and alpha 2,6-linked, as shown by MAA and SNA respectively) and alpha-L-fucosyl residues (shown by UEA-1 and LTA) were expressed on spermatogonia, spermatocytes and spermatozoa, but not on spermatids. In contrast, 2-deoxy-2-acetamido-alpha-D-galactosyl termini were abundant on spermatozoa, but not on any of their precursors (as shown by HPA, SBA and VVA). All occurred on both O- and N-linked glycans. Sertoli cells expressed small amounts of fucose and alpha 2,3-linked sialic acid, and abundant alpha 2,6 sialyl residues, largely on N-glycans. alpha-Galactosyl residues were readily detected on the tubular basement membrane, but not elsewhere.
Phospholipids of human spermatozoa and their role in ensuring fertility]	The phospholipid composition of spermatozoa in healthy subjects (n = 13) and infertile men (n = 38) was studied. The level of inorganic phosphorus of total phospholipids decreased in spermatozoa of infertile men (relative and excretory infertility). It was found that the phosphatidyl ethanolamine amount in spermatozoa of infertile men fell. The level of phosphatidyl serine had certain tendency to decrease as well. Lyso-phosphatidyl serine was detected in some samples of infertile spermatozoa. Correlation between the amount of spermatozoa, its motility, vitality etc. and content of some phospholipids was found.
Endocrinological, biophysical, and biochemical parameters of semen collected via masturbation versus sexual intercourse.	In clinical programs of assisted reproduction involving infertile males, it is essential to obtain semen of maximum quality. To evaluate ways of achieving this objective, and to assess the fertilizing capacity of the sperm, six semen samples were collected from each of 38 infertile men via masturbation. Six more samples were then collected from each man at sexual intercourse using a semen collection device (SCD). We confirmed that the volume of seminal plasma, total sperm count, sperm motility, and percentage of morphologically normal spermatozoa were significantly higher in samples collected at intercourse than masturbation, as reported previously. In addition, the markers of the secretory function of the prostate and the outcome of sperm function tests (hypoosmotic swelling test, acrosin assay, and sperm penetration assay) were significantly higher for the samples collected at intercourse. There were no significant differences in markers of the secretory function of the seminal vesicles and epididymis between the samples. The improved spermatozoal parameters in the samples collected at intercourse may reflect a higher prostatic secretory function at that time. There were no significant differences in the serum concentrations of gonadotropins, or in the serum or seminal plasma concentrations of testosterone, before or after masturbation or sexual intercourse. Therefore, the differences in prostatic secretory function and semen parameters may not be attributed to differences in hormonal levels. Semen collection during intercourse using an SCD appears to be the method of choice for selecting semen samples for artificial insemination.
Comparison of motility and flow cytometric assessments of seminal quality in fresh, 24-hour extended and cryopreserved human spermatozoa.	Functional differences among fresh 24-hour extended and cryopreserved human spermatozoa were assessed using both computer-assisted semen analysis (CASA) and flow cytometry. The objective was to determine if there were interrelationships among various qualitative parameters of the fresh and treated samples when assessed by these two automated methods. Fertile donor specimens (n = 15) were split and examined for sperm motility and curvilinear velocity using CASA within 1 hour postejaculation, after 24 hours in TEST-yolk buffer at 5 degrees C and after cryopreservation in TEST-yolk-glycerol medium. Flow cytometric analyses were performed on 24-hour extended and cryopreserved (CP) samples after fluorescent staining with rhodamine 123 to quantify mitochondrial function and carboxydimethyl fluorescein diacetate and propidium iodide to assess plasma membrane integrity. The percentages of spermatozoa with functional mitochondria and intact membranes along with the proportion of dead cells were identified and quantified by flow cytometry. Quadrant analyses of these data were used to determine the relative red and green fluorescent intensities. The initial sperm motility was correlated to the motility observed for the 24-hour stored and the CP samples. The sperm velocity of both the initial and the 24-hour extended samples was correlated to the velocity of CP samples. As for the comparison of the two automated methods for assessing seminal quality, the only sperm motion parameter that was correlated with a sperm population identified by flow cytometry (quadrant 4) was the curvilinear velocity of the sperm after 24 hours storage (r = 0.69) and after cryopreservation (r = 0.74). The present findings indicate that additional research is needed to determine if prefreeze analyses of donor sperm could be useful in predicting the post-thaw integrity of CP samples and, thereby, be useful in screening potential semen donors.
Experimental evidence for the binemic structure of human chromosomes.	A binemic model of eukaryotyc chromosome was tested using PCR-amplification of some unique genes in individual sperm cells or in human DNA diluted to 1/2 of the DNA amount of a haploid cell. According to the model, all the hereditary information, including all the unique genes, is represented twice in the haploid genome. Backing up of information enhances reliability of the genome by several orders of magnitude. Hemoglobin G gene (HBG2) and parathyroid hormone gene (PTH) were studied. In the first experimental plot the DNA from one isolated spermatozoon was divided into 4 parts and G globin gene was attempted to be amplified in all 4 tubes. According to the binemic model the simultaneous positive reaction in a pair of tubes should occur in up to 75% of cases and the reaction in only one tube from the four should occur in the case of uninemy. In the second approach, human DNA was serially deluted to the 1/2 of the haploid genome per tube. After amplification, the number of tubes with positive signal were counted. According to the unineme model, 3.7 positive reactions from 10 were expected. According to the bineme model 6.3 positive reactions from 10 should be observed (as follows from Poisson distribution). The results obtained with both methods are in accordance with binemic model and are inconsistent with uninemy.
The relationship between paternal age, sex ratios, and aneuploidy frequencies in human sperm, as assessed by multicolor FISH.	We studied the frequencies of X- and Y-chromosome-bearing sperm, diploidy and disomy for chromosomes 1, 12, X, and Y in sperm from 10 normal men aged 21-52 years, to determine whether there was any relationship between donor age and any of these variables. Multicolor FISH was used to control for lack of probe hybridization and to distinguish diploid sperm from disomic sperm. A minimum of 10,000 sperm per donor was evaluated for each chromosome, for a total of 225,846 sperm studied. Sperm were considered disomic if two fluorescent signals were separated by a minimal distance of one signal domain. The mean frequencies of X- and Y-bearing sperm were 50.1% and 49.0%, respectively; not significantly different from 50%. There was no correlation between paternal age and "sex ratio" in sperm. Similarly, there was no association between the frequency of diploid sperm (mean, .16%; range, .06-.42%) and donor age. For disomy frequencies, there was no relationship between donor age and disomy 12 (mean, .16%; range, .10%-.25%), XX (mean, .07%; range, .03%-.17%), and XY sperm (mean, .16%; range, .08%-.24%). There was a significant increase in the frequency of YY sperm (P = .04; mean, .18%; range, .10%-.43%) and disomy 1 sperm (P = .01; mean, .11%; range, .05%-.18%) with donor age. In summary, our results do not support a correlation between paternal age and sex ratio or diploidy.
Localization of a heparin-binding protein to distinct regions of bovine sperm.	Heparin-binding proteins (HBP) in bull seminal fluid bind to epididymal sperm membranes at ejaculation. Peptides recognized by a monoclonal antibody (M1) correspond to proteins identified in complexes that have the greatest affinity for heparin and are present on sperm from bulls with higher fertility. Presence of specific HBP on sperm regulates the ability of sperm to bind heparin, and heparin binding to sperm correlates with the fertility potential of a bull. In these studies, the interaction of HBP with sperm from 10 bulls of proven fertility was analyzed by immunofluorescence of M1 to determine the localization of heparin-binding proteins during capacitation, and the fluorescent binding patterns were compared to bull nonreturn rates. Immunofluorescent localization of M1 binding sites revealed the existence of specific membrane domains containing HBP in acrosomal and postacrosomal regions of ejaculated but not in epididymal sperm. Monoclonal antibody recognition of HBP localized on membranes of sperm revealed variable binding patterns of M1 to the acrosomal region in sperm from bulls of known fertility. Regression analysis indicated a negative relationship between sperm displaying exclusively acrosomal fluorescence and bull nonreturn rate. These data indicate that HBP bind to sperm in distinct patterns, one of which differed among bulls of varying fertility, and indicate no apparent relocalization of these sites during cellular changes that occur in preparation for fertilization.
Chromomycin A3-staining as an indicator of protamine deficiency and fertilization.	Mature mammalian spermatozoa have a compact and stable nuclear structure conferred by protamines instead of histones, which are present in all other cellular types. Chromomycin A3 (CMA3) is a useful tool for the detection of protamine deficiency in sperm chromatin. The purpose of this study was to correlate the percentage of spermatozoa staining positively for CMA3 with sperm parameters and in-vitro fertilization of human oocytes. Spermatozoa were collected from 56 fertile and 18 infertile men, and washed twice in PBS, fixed in two changes of methanol : acetic acid (3 : 1 v : v) spread on rinsed slides treated with APES and dried. Twenty-four of the semen samples were subjected to both Percoll and swim-up, and were stained subsequently with CMA3. CMA3-stained spermatozoa were expressed as a percentage in a count of 200 spermatozoa. A substantial variation in the percentage of CMA3-stained cells was observed in ejaculated human spermatozoa, varying between 8% and 77%. A strong negative correlation (r = -0.64, p < 0.001) was found between sperm count and the percentage of CMA3-stained spermatozoa. No correlation was found between CMA3-stained spermatozoa and their motility, while excessive sperm morphological abnormalities were related positively to CMA3-staining. Spermatozoa in samples exhibiting low (8-62%) CMA3-staining had significantly higher fertilizing rates in vitro than did samples exhibiting high (49-77%) CMA3-staining. The mean percentage of CMA3-stained spermatozoa after swim-up or Percoll preparation (26% vs 31%) did not differ significantly. These results demonstrate a close relationship between CMA3-staining, fertilization and sperm count, and suggest potential application of this marker for the prediction of sperm quality and fertilizing capacity.
Voltage-dependent activation of frog eggs by a sperm surface disintegrin peptide.	Fertilin, a sperm protein of the metalloprotease/disintegrin/cysteine-rich (MDC) family, plays a critical role in sperm-egg binding in mammals. Peptides corresponding to the disintegrin domain of fertilin and antibodies against fertilin have been shown to inhibit mammalian sperm-egg binding and fusion. A protein from the same family, xMDC16, was recently cloned from frog (Xenopus laevis) testis and was found to be involved in frog sperm-egg binding. Here we report that xMDC16 is localized predominantly on the posterior surface of egg jelly-activated sperm, and peptides from the disintegrin domain of this protein activate eggs when applied near the egg surface. Egg activation was dependent on (1) specific amino acid residues (KTX); (2) the presence of divalent cations, but not external Ca2+ alone; and (3) voltage across the egg plasma membrane. This is the first demonstration of egg activation in vertebrates by the surface application of a peptide derived from a sperm surface protein, supporting a model for egg activation that involves a signal transducing receptor for sperm in the egg's plasma membrane.
DNA nicks and increased sensitivity of DNA to fluorescence in situ end labeling during functional spermiogenesis.	Terminal transferase can be used to quantitate DNA strand breaks in situ by labeling free 3'-hydroxyl ends with exogenous nucleotides. Endogenous nicks in DNA temporally appear and disappear during functionally significant structural rearrangements of chromatin. Fluorescence in situ end labeling of mouse and rat testicular cells demonstrated that functional spermiogenesis is associated with abundant DNA nicks that occur in elongating spermatids, most likely as a result of nucleoprotein changes during terminal differentiation. Detectable DNA breaks were not observed in round spermatids and epididymal sperm.
Fluorescent study of chromatin and tubulin in apparently unfertilized human oocytes following ICSI.	In this study we examined 138 oocytes which were meiotically mature and, on light microscopic examination, contained either no or one pronucleus following intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Oocytes were fixed and simultaneously stained for chromatin (Hoechst 33258) and the spindle (alpha-tubulin antibody). In nine oocytes, no sperm nucleus was observed. The remaining oocytes were separated into two groups following staining; (i) oocytes which had remained at metaphase II after ICSI (n = 74); and (ii) oocytes in which resumption of meiosis was observed after ICSI (n = 55). In all oocytes in which sperm chromatin was absent no resumption of meiosis had occurred and therefore parthenogenetic activation by the process of ICSI seems to be a rare event. In 17 out of 74 (23%) oocytes which remained at metaphase II, staining identified premature chromosome condensation (PCC) of the sperm chromatin (G1-PCC). Sperm nuclear decondensation or further transformation of the sperm chromatin was observed in 56 out of 74 (76%) oocytes which remained at metaphase II after ICSI and in 46 out of 55 (84%) oocytes which had resumed meiosis, indicating that initiation of sperm decondensation is independent of the resumption of meiosis in the oocyte. In contrast, transition of the sperm nucleus beyond the decondensed stage only occurred in association with resumption of meiosis in the oocyte (no pronuclei in metaphase II oocytes). The presence of both male and female pronuclei in 53% of oocytes which had resumed meiosis indicates that changes in sperm chromatin beyond the initial decondensation stage are dependent on cytoplasmic conditions which also permit female pronuclear formation.
