Transgenic mice produced by retroviral transduction of male germ-line stem cells.	Male germ-line stem cells are the only cell type in postnatal mammals that have the capability to self-renew and to contribute genes to the next generation. Genetic modification of these cells would provide an opportunity to study the biology of their complex self-renewal and differentiation processes, as well as enable the generation of transgenic animals in a wide range of species. Although retroviral vectors have been used as an efficient method to introduce genes into a variety of cell types, postnatal male germ-line stem cells have seemed refractory to direct infection by these viruses. In addition, expression of genes transduced into several types of stem cells, such as embryonic or hematopoietic, is often attenuated or silenced. We demonstrate here that in vitro retroviral-mediated gene delivery into spermatogonial stem cells of both adult and immature mice results in stable integration and expression of a transgene in 2-20% of stem cells. After transplantation of the transduced stem cells into the testes of infertile recipient mice, approximately 4.5% of progeny from these males are transgenic, and the transgene is transmitted to and expressed in subsequent generations. Therefore, there is no intrinsic barrier to retroviral transduction in this stem cell, and transgene expression is not extinguished after transmission to progeny.
Gene expression profiles in different stages of mouse spermatogenic cells during spermatogenesis.	During spermatogenesis, diploid stem cells differentiate, undergo meiosis and spermiogenesis, and transform into haploid spermatozoa. Various factors have been demonstrated to regulate this marvelous process of differentiation, but the expression of only a few genes specifically involved in spermatogenesis has been studied. In the present study, different types of spermatogenic cells were isolated from Balb/c mice testes of different ages using the velocity sedimentation method, and we determined the expression profiles of 1176 known mouse genes in six different types of mouse spermatogenic cells (primitive type A spermatogonia, type B spermatogonia, preleptotene spermatocytes, pachytene spermatocytes, round spermatids, and elongating spermatids) using Atlas cDNA arrays. Of the 1176 genes on the Atlas Mouse 1.2 cDNA Expression Arrays, we detected 181 genes in primitive type A spermatogonia, 256 in type B spermatogonia, 221 in preleptotene spermatocytes, 160 in pachytene spermatocytes, 141 in round spermatids, and 126 in elongating spermatids. A number of genes were detected as differential expression (up-regulation or down-regulation). Fourteen of the differentially expressed genes have been further confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for their expression characterizations in different types of spermatogenic cells. These results provide more information for further studies into spermatogenesis-related genes and may lead to the identification of genes with potential relevance to spermatogenesis.
Chronological gene expression of ADAMs during testicular development: prespermatogonia (gonocytes) express fertilin beta (ADAM2).	Immediately after birth, primordial germinal cell-derived prespermatogonia (PSG), located in the center of the testicular cords, migrate between adjacent Sertoli cells to establish contact with the cord basal lamina. PSG migration suggests continued assembly and disassembly of cell-cell contacts by a molecular mechanism that may involve integrins and their ligands, the disintegrin domain of spermatogenic cell-specific plasma membrane proteins called ADAMs. We have analyzed the temporal gene expression of selected ADAMs in intact fetal, early postnatal, and pubertal rat testis and Sertoli-spermatogenic cell cocultures by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization, and immunocytochemistry. We report that several ADAM transcripts are expressed in fetal, neonatal, and prepubertal testes. Cyritestin (ADAM3), ADAM5, ADAM6, and ADAM15 are expressed in day 17 fetal testes. In contrast, no expression of fertilin alpha (ADAM1) and fertilin beta (ADAM 2) was detected in fetal testes. Fertilin beta gene expression starts after postnatal day 2, subsequent to the expression of fertilin alpha, which occurs on postnatal day 1. After postnatal day 2, all the indicated ADAMs, including the fertilin alpha and fertilin beta, continue to be expressed. Transcripts of spermatogenic cell-specific fertilin alpha, fertilin beta, ADAM3, and ADAM5 were detected during the coculture of PSG with Sertoli cells for up to 72 hr after plating. The presence of fertilin beta mRNA and protein in cocultured PSG was visualized by in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, respectively. These observations indicate that PSG in coculture with Sertoli cells provide a suitable approach for analyzing cell-cell adhesive responses involving spermatogenic cell-specific ADAMs.
Clonal organization of proliferating spermatogonial stem cells in adult males of two species of non-human primates, Macaca mulatta and Callithrix jacchus.	The present study examines the existence of clonogenic patterns in the proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells in two species of non-human primates, the marmoset and the rhesus monkey. We developed a novel approach to detect proliferating spermatogonial clones in whole mounts of seminiferous tubules. Dual fluorescence labeling of bromodeoxyuridine and acrosin in conjunction with confocal microscopy allows the description of the clonogenic and spatial arrangement of proliferating spermatogonia at specific stages of the seminiferous epithelial cycle. Cross-sections of paraffin-embedded tissue were labeled by the same approach. For both monkey species we demonstrate the presence of proliferating spermatogonial clones of variable size at specific stages of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. Detailed analysis of the rhesus monkey reveals proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium, and of proliferating B spermatogonia at stages II, IV, VI, and XII. Proliferating Apale spermatogonia at stages VII and IX of the cycle are organized in pairs or quadruplets. B1 spermatogonia appear as quadruplets or eight-cell clones, and B2 spermatogonia as 8- or 16-cell clones. We conclude that spermatogenesis in the rhesus monkey is initiated by two divisions of duplets or quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia: a first division at stage VII, after which the clones of Apale spermatogonia separate, and a second division at stage IX, which leads to clones of B1 spermatogonia as well as pairs and quadruplets of Apale spermatogonia replenishing the seminiferous epithelium to maintain the original size of the A spermatogonial population.
Spatio-temporal expression of a DAZ-like gene in the Japanese newt Cynops pyrrhogaster that has no germ plasm.	To investigate the germ cell specification in urodeles, we cloned a DAZ-like sequence from the Japanese newt Cynops pyrrhogaster, Cydazl, and raised antibodies specific to Cydazl. Cydazl is a homologue of the human DAZ (deleted in azoospermia), DAZL, and Xenopus dazl genes, which are involved in gametogenesis or germ cell specification. During gametogenesis, expression of Cydazl mRNA and Cydazl protein was detected at first in the small previtellogenic oocytes in females but was not localized as seen in Xenopus and was restricted to secondary spermatogonia prior to meiosis in males. During early embryogenesis, maternal stores of the Cydazl transcript and protein were present in the entire embryos, not localized in any specific region. The zygotic expression was detected in hatching larvae (stage 50) by RT-PCR analysis whereas specific cells expressing Cydazl could not be determined by in situ hybridization at this stage. Strong expression of Cydazl and Cydazl were detected in primordial germ cells (PGCs) that had entered the gonadal rudiment at late stage 59. These results suggest that Cydazl does not function early in development, for the specification of germ cells, but functions later for differentiation of germ cells in the developing gonads during embryogenesis and for meiotic regulation, supporting the previous idea of an intermediate germ cell formation mode in urodeles.
Differential expression of estrogen receptors (ERalpha/ERbeta) in testis of mature and immature pigs.	High affinity estrogen receptors (ERs) mediate estrogen action in male reproductive tissues. The objective of the present study was the immunolocalization of estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta in immature and mature testes of pig, a species in which the role of estrogens on gonadal function is scarcely known. Testes from 3 and 18 month-old pigs were investigated. Immunohistochemistry was performed on paraffin embedded-tissues using both mouse anti-human monoclonal IgG ERalpha and IgG ERbeta 1 isoform. Western blot analysis demonstrated antibody specificity. ERalpha staining was not observed in immature testes, but it was detected in spermatogonia, spermatocytes and in the most Leydig cells of mature testes. ERbeta immunoreactivity was observed in spermatogonia and Leydig cells of immature gonads, while it was clearly detected in spermatogonia and in spermatocytes of adult pig testes. The differential ERalpha/ERbeta expression in germ and somatic cells of the gonads suggest a role of estrogens in function and in development of pig testis.
Identification of the leukemia inhibitory factor cell targets within the rat testis.	Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), a pleiotropic cytokine, is expressed in the rat testis and produced predominantly by peritubular myoid cells. The aims of this study were to characterize the testicular cell targets of LIF and to identify the role of LIF in the testis. The LIF receptor (LIF-R)/gp190 transcript was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the rat testis from Day 13.5 postcoitum until adulthood. Seven highly purified testicular cell populations, representative of the major testicular constituents, were studied at transcriptional and protein levels by, respectively, RT-PCR and flow cytometry with biotinylated-LIF. Spermatogonia and, to a lesser extent, the somatic cells, exhibited specific LIF-binding sites. These results were strengthened by in situ analysis, showing predominant LIF-R immunoreactivity in spermatogonia at all ages studied. In addition to the 190-kDa LIF-R, Western blot analysis revealed the presence of a 50- to 60-kDa C-terminal gp190 isoform. This truncated form, which is unable to bind LIF, was the only form expressed in meiotic germ cells, suggesting an original down-regulation process of LIF-R expression during spermatogenesis. Finally, we showed that LIF increased [3H]-thymidine incorporation in spermatogonia in microdissected, cultured seminiferous tubules. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that LIF has a role in the regulation of the spermatogonial cell compartment.
Differentiation markers of Sertoli cells and germ cells in fetal and early postnatal human testis.	The definition of the temporal sequence of appearance of fetal markers during prenatal and early postnatal development in Sertoli and germ cells may be important for understanding the mechanisms underlying their reexpression in disorders of the adult testis. For this reason, we studied the expression of Sertoli and germ cell markers in 25 human testes spanning a period from 8 gestational weeks to 4 years. Well-characterized antibodies were employed to anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), cytokeratin 18 (CK18), vimentin (VIM), M2A-antigen (M2A), germ cell alkaline phosphatase (GCAP), and somatic angiotensin-converting enzyme (sACE) on formalin-fixed and microwave-pretreated paraffin sections. In Sertoli cells, AMH and VIM were consistently present. While VIM and CK18 were coexpressed in embryonic testes, CK18 was progressively downregulated and completely absent from the 20th gestational week. M2A was absent or moderately expressed in fetal Sertoli cells but increased during further development. In germ cells, M2A was consistently found in primordial germ cells (PGCs) as well as in M- and T1-prespermatogonia. In contrast, sACE and GCAP were absent from PGCs but were a distinct feature of late M- and early T1-prespermatogonia and appeared predominantly between the 18th and the 22nd gestational weeks. Both T2-prespermatogonia and postnatal prespermatogonia were devoid of any marker. While CK18 represents a differentiation marker for fetal Sertoli cells, M2A, GCAP, and sACE can be used as differentiation markers for the discrimination of different germ cell types during human prespermatogenesis. Because various immunophenotypes reflect distinct differentiation stages, this knowledge may be important for understanding adult testicular pathology.
Effect of cerebral ganglia and dorsal bodies on DNA synthesis induced by heat in the ovotestis of hibernating Helix aspersa ]	Brain extirpation of snails at the start of their natural hibernation increased the synthesis of DNA in spermatogonia when the animals were transferred from 5 to 25 degrees C for a 4-week period. This effect did not occur if animals were maintained at 5 degrees C. The reimplantation of brain (cerebral ganglia: CG + associated dorsal bodies: DB) in brain-ablated snails failed to correct the effects of brain extirpation. The implantation of either DB or CG in cerebrotomized hosts showed that, compared to shams, DB restored the level of DNA synthesis and spermatogonial proliferations whereas CG stimulated it. The CG and associated DB were therefore found to exert antagonistic effects which are responsible for the control of spermatogonial DNA synthesis in hibernating Helix aspersa.
Expression of the c-kit proto-oncogene in the murine male germ cells.	The proto-oncogene c-kit encodes a transmembrane protein tyrosine kinase receptor. The c-kit gene has recently been shown to be allelic with the W locus. Mutations at the white spotting locus (W) affect various aspects of hematopoiesis, melanogenesis and gametogenesis during development and in the adult animal. We have investigated the expression of the proto-oncogene c-kit in mouse testicular cell populations. The c-kit mRNA was found to be expressed at high levels in spermatogonia, and at lower levels in meiotic pachytene spermatocytes. Moreover, two novel testis-specific c-kit transcripts of 3.5 and 2.3 kb are present in postmeiotic haploid germ cells. These results suggest a role of c-kit not only during testis development in the embryo, but also throughout all stages of male germ cell development after birth.
Identification of neuregulin as a factor required for formation of aligned spermatogonia.	In the absence of somatic cells, medium conditioned by the SNL fibroblast line (SNL-CM) is able to stimulate primary cultures of rat type-A single spermatogonia to develop into chains of aligned spermatogonia at the 8-, 16-, and 32-cell stages. By comparison, medium conditioned by an MSC-1 Sertoli cell line is ineffective. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-like molecules were identified in SNL-CM and recombinant forms of GDNF, neurturin, and artemin were shown to stimulate formation of aligned spermatogonia, but principally to only the 4- and 8-cell stages. Because SNL-CM and GDNF-like molecules stimulated the formation of spermatogonial chain length differently, we purified components of SNL-CM to identify the additional contributing factor(s). A fraction was isolated that was dependent on GDNF, but required for effective formation of 16- and 32-cell chain lengths. Sequence analysis identified the factor as mouse neuregulin-1. At picomolar concentrations, recombinant neuregulin-1 in combination with GDNF effectively stimulated formation of aligned spermatogonia up to the 32-cell stage. Neuregulin in the absence of GDNF was relatively ineffective. Soluble receptors for neuregulins blocked the effects of GDNF and SNL-CM, suggesting that both neuregulin and GDNF are required for effective formation of long spermatogonial chains. Addition of neuregulin-1 to cultures on MSC-1 feeder layers resulted in spermatogonial behavior similar to that seen on feeder layers of SNL fibroblasts. In fact, SNL cells were found to express 100-fold higher levels of neuregulin-1 transcripts than MSC-1 cells. Thus, we identify neuregulin as a factor required for spermatogonial amplification and differentiation in culture.
A novel transforming growth factor-beta superfamily member expressed in gonadal somatic cells enhances primordial germ cell and spermatogonial proliferation in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).	Our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of primordial germ cell (PGC) proliferation in fish is rudimentary, but it is thought to be controlled by the surrounding somatic cells. We assumed that growth factors that are specifically involved in PGC proliferation are expressed predominantly in the surrounding genital ridge somatic cells. In order to isolate these growth factors, we compiled a complementary DNA (cDNA) subtractive library using cDNA from the genital ridges of 40-dpf rainbow trout embryos as the tester and cDNA from embryos without genital ridges as the driver. This approach identified a novel cytokine, designated gonadal soma-derived growth factor (GSDF), which is a member of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily. GSDF was expressed in the genital ridge somatic cells surrounding the PGCs during embryogenesis, and in both the granulosa and Sertoli cells at later stages. Inhibition of GSDF translation by antisense oligonucleotides suppressed PGC proliferation. Moreover, isolated testicular cells that were cultured with recombinant GSDF demonstrated dose-dependent proliferation of type-A spermatogonia; this effect was completely blocked by antiserum against GSDF. These results denote that GSDF, a novel member of the TGF-beta superfamily, plays an important role for proliferation of PGC and spermatogonia.
Cloning and characterization of a rice field eel vasa-like gene cDNA and its expression in gonads during natural sex transformation.	The vasa (vas)-related gene encodes an RNA helicase protein member of the DEAD-box family and plays key roles in germ-cell formation in higher metazoans. Using degenerate PCR and RACE, we cloned the vasa gene of the rice field eel (Monopterus albus), which is homologous to the Drosophila vasa gene. We named it ma-vas (Monopterus albus vas). Ma-vas encodes a protein of 618 amino acids, which contains all of the known characteristics of vasa homologs. RT-PCR analysis revealed that ma-vas was exclusively expressed in the gonads of the female, intersex, and male. During gonadal natural sex reversal, ma-vas is expressed in oocytes at all stages of oogenesis, in degenerating oocytes of ovotestis, and in spermatogonia and spermatocytes at early stages. The vasa positive signal was also observed in the peripheral layer of late ovary. It was not found, however, in that layer of the testis. Alkaline phosphatase (AKP) staining on the ovary and testis also indicated that some cells had differentiational potential in the peripheral layer of the ovary, suggesting that spermatogonia might arise from cells with AKP and vasa-positive staining in the peripheral layer of the female gonad.
Incorporation of rhodamine B into male tobacco budworm moths Heliothis virescens to use as a marker for mating studies.	Rhodamine B, a dye commonly used in a variety of biological studies was incorporated into the bodies of male tobacco budworm moths, Heliothis virescens (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), by allowing them to feed freely on 0.1% rhodamine dissolved in a 10% sucrose solution. After exposing males for one to three days to this pigment, rhodamine was clearly detectable in >82% of spermatophores extracted from untreated females. The intake of this dye did not affect the life span, the production of eggs or the capacity of moths to copulate when compared with moths fed only a sucrose solution or water. Rhodamine B was easily identifiable externally but was more apparent internally in males after only one day of exposure to the pigment. Even at this short feeding duration, rhodamine was detectable in >50% of males 5 days after feeding stopped. Longer exposure to the dye significantly increased the percentage stained. Detection of rhodamine was slightly enhanced by the use of ultraviolet light. The dye accumulation in internal abdominal organs was a better indicator of the presence of the pigment than external contamination of the moth. The use of the method described in this report can be a tool for the rapid incorporation of a low cost dye in the tobacco budworm for biological, behavioral and genetic studies.
NANOG promoter methylation and expression correlation during normal and malignant human germ cell development.	Testicular germ cell tumors are the most frequent malignant tumors in young Caucasian males, with increasing incidence. The actual model of tumorigenesis is based on the theory that a block in maturation of fetal germ cells lead to formation of the intratubular germ cell neoplasia unclassified. Early fetal germ cells and undifferentiated germ cell tumors express pluripotency markers such as the transcription factor NANOG. It has been demonstrated, that epigenetic modifications such as promoter DNA-methylation is able to silence gene expression in normal and cancer cells. Here we show, that OCT3/4-SOX2 mediated expression of NANOG can be silenced by methylation of promoter CpG-sites. We found that global methylation of DNA decreased from fetal spermatogonia to mature sperm. In contrast, CpGs in the NANOG promoter were found hypomethylated in spermatogonia and hypermethylated in sperm. This selective repression might reflect the cells need to suppress pluripotency in order to prevent malignant transformation. Finally, methylation of CpGs in the NANOG promoter in germ cell tumors and derived cell lines correlated to differentiation state.
Gene expression profiling of rat spermatogonia and Sertoli cells reveals signaling pathways from stem cells to niche and testicular cancer cells to surrounding stroma.	Stem cells and their niches are studied in many systems, but mammalian germ stem cells (GSC) and their niches are still poorly understood. In rat testis, spermatogonia and undifferentiated Sertoli cells proliferate before puberty, but at puberty most spermatogonia enter spermatogenesis, and Sertoli cells differentiate to support this program. Thus, pre-pubertal spermatogonia might possess GSC potential and pre-pubertal Sertoli cells niche functions. We hypothesized that the different stem cell pools at pre-puberty and maturity provide a model for the identification of stem cell and niche-specific genes. We compared the transcript profiles of spermatogonia and Sertoli cells from pre-pubertal and pubertal rats and examined how these related to genes expressed in testicular cancers, which might originate from inappropriate communication between GSCs and Sertoli cells.
Inhibitor of DNA binding 4 is expressed selectively by single spermatogonia in the male germline and regulates the self-renewal of spermatogonial stem cells in mice.	Continual spermatogenesis at a quantitatively normal level is required to sustain male fertility. The foundation of this process relies on maintenance of an undifferentiated spermatogonial population consisting of spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) that self-renew as well as transient amplifying progenitors produced by differentiation. In mammals, type A(single) spermatogonia form the SSC population, but molecular markers distinguishing these from differentiating progenitors are undefined and knowledge of mechanisms regulating their functions is limited. We show that in the mouse male germline the transcriptional repressor ID4 is expressed by a subpopulation of undifferentiated spermatogonia and selectively marks A(single) spermatogonia. In addition, we found that ID4 expression is up-regulated in isolated SSC-enriched fractions by stimulation from GDNF, a key growth factor driving self-renewal. In mice lacking ID4 expression, quantitatively normal spermatogenesis was found to be impaired due to progressive loss of the undifferentiated spermatogonial population during adulthood. Moreover, reduction of ID4 expression by small interfering RNA treatment abolished the ability of wild-type SSCs to expand in vitro during long-term culture without affecting their survival. Collectively, these results indicate that ID4 is a distinguishing marker of SSCs in the mammalian germline and plays an important role in the regulation of self-renewal.
Questions about spermatogonia posed and answered since 2000.	This review focuses on 3 important advances in our understanding of rodent  spermatogonial stem cells (SSC) that have emerged since 2000: the identity of  SSC, the existence of a SSC niche, and gene expression in spermatogonia. It is  now apparent that the original scheme, in which the A(single)  (A(s)) spermatogonia are the only stem cells, may be too simple.  Rather, separation of pairs of A(paired) (A(pr))  spermatogonia into singles might also play a role in the steady state  situation. However, evidence that in the normal epithelium fragmentation of  chains of A(aligned) (A(al)) spermatogonia into smaller  clones also plays a role is not yet conclusive. New evidence presented during  the last decade indicates that the A(s),A(pr), and  A(al) (A(s,pr,al)) spermatogonia are not localized at random  over the tubule basal lamina, as originally assumed, but are restricted to  those areas that border on interstitial tissue and, in particular, to areas  containing venules and arterioles, suggesting a specific relationship of this  localization with a possible SSC niche. Finally, gene expression studies are  showing how both extrinsic factors produced by Sertoli cells and intrinsic  factors that are products of the germ cells act either to maintain progenitor  cells or to promote differentiation and the commitment to meiosis. Taken  together, this new knowledge adds to our understanding of the balance between  2 opposing forces: one promoting the undifferentiated state and the other  promoting the commitment to meiosis and differentiation that is essential for  spermatogenesis to proceed.
Enrichment and characterization of Thy1-positive male germline stem cells (mGSCs) from dairy goat (Capra hircus) testis using magnetic microbeads.	In mammalian testis, male germline stem cells (mGSCs) are originated from primordial germ cells and developed into spermatocyte and spermatid. In our previous studies, we had isolated a pluripotent mGSCs from goat testes and tested their pluripotency and differentiation potential in vitro and in vivo, which revealed that the isolated and cultured dairy goat mGSCs maintained the characteristics of mGSCs. However, Thy1, a marker of mGSCs, was not examined in detail. In this study, the dairy goat mGSCs were purified by differential plating followed by magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS) using Thy1 antibody. The quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence analyses revealed that the transcription and expression of Thy1, CD49f, Plzf, Oct4, Gfra1, and Vasa were higher in Thy1-positive cells when compared with Thy1-negative cells. The detection results of culturing dairy goat mGSCs indicated that the Thy1-positive cells maintained the characteristics of mGSCs, grew relatively faster than Thy1-negative cells, and the percentage of alkaline phosphatase-positive cells and colonies were significantly higher in Thy1-positive mGSCs than Thy1-negative cells. Collectively, these results indicate that THY1 is a marker of undifferentiated spermatogonia in goat testes, the technique of magnetic-activated cell sorting using Thy1 antibody could be an efficient method to enrich mGSCs in goat. 
The effect of human chorionic gonadotropin-based hormonal therapy on intratesticular testosterone levels and spermatogonial DNA synthesis in men with non-obstructive azoospermia.	The use of hormonal therapy in men with non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) is controversial because no information is available on how it affects intratesticular testosterone (ITT) levels and spermatogenic cells. The aim of this study was to investigate the ITT level and spermatogonial DNA synthesis, as determined by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression, before and after human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)-based hormonal therapy in men with NOA. Twenty patients who failed sperm retrieval procedures using microdissection testicular sperm extraction (micro-TESE) were enrolled in hCG-based hormonal therapy prior to a second micro-TESE. The patients' ITT levels were determined from testicular fluid obtained during the micro-TESE. Spermatogonial PCNA expression was determined by immunohistochemical analysis, and the PCNA labelling index (PCNA-LI) was calculated. During the second micro-TESE, spermatozoa were successfully retrieved from three (15%) of the men who had been treated with hormonal therapy. PCNA-positive cells were predominantly in the spermatogonia and primary spermatocytes, and PCNA-LI was significantly increased after the hormonal therapy. A significant increase in the ITT levels before and after the hormonal therapy (p < 0.0001, 273.6 ± 134.4 and 1348.1 ± 505.4 ng/mL respectively). The sperm-positive group showed a significantly lower basal ITT level compared with the sperm-negative group (p < 0.05). There was a marked increase in the PCNA-LI levels of men treated with both recombinant human follicle-stimulating hormone and hCG. In addition, there was a significant negative association between the increase in PCNA-LI and basal ITT levels at the initial micro-TESE (p < 0.05), but not the stimulated ITT level at the second micro-TESE. HCG-based hormonal therapy significantly raises the ITT level and stimulates spermatogonial DNA synthesis, potentially improving spermatogenesis. ITT optimization plays, at least in part, an important role for stimulating spermatogenesis in men with NOA. 
Specific expression of nuclear proto-oncogenes before entry into meiotic prophase of spermatogenesis.	The expression of proto-oncogenes representative of several functional categories has been investigated during development of mouse male germ cells. The c-raf proto-oncogene and three members of the c-ras gene family were expressed in mitotically active stem cells, throughout the prophase of meiosis and to varying extents in post-meiotic cell types. In contrast, the nuclear proto-oncogenes c-fos, c-jun, and c-myc were specifically expressed at high levels in type B spermatogonia. High levels of c-myc and c-jun RNAs were also detected in spermatocytes early in the prophase of meiosis. The type B spermatogonia represent the last mitotic cell division before entry into meiotic prophase; therefore, these nuclear proto-oncogenes may be involved in altering programs of gene expression at this developmental transition.
Human sperm and spermatogonia express a galactoglycerolipid which interacts with gp120.	Sexual transmission is a major mode of spread of HIV-1 although the mechanisms involved remain to be elucidated. The role of spermatozoa as carriers of the HIV is supported by recent publications, while the expression of the CD4 on the membrane of the sperm has not yet been demonstrated. The data reported in this paper show that a glycolipid molecule, most likely the galactosyl-alkyl-acylglycerol, structurally similar to galactosylceramides, is present on the surface membrane of the spermatozoa. Consistent with a structure similar to galactosylceramide, the sperm glycolipid is capable of binding the gp120 as demonstrated utilizing an improved ELISA assay which favors sensitivity and specificity. Immunocytochemistry of testicular tissue shows the presence of this glycolipid on the membrane of immature germ cells, preferentially in the spermatogonia. These data indicate that human sperm express a glycolipid similar in structure to the receptor for HIV described on the CD4- neural and colonic epithelial cell lines, and moreover suggest that this glycolipid could also function as HIV receptor and possibly be implied in its transmission. The demonstration that this molecule is also expressed by the spermatogonia suggests its involvement in the interaction of the HIV with spermatogonia, as recently reported, and could explain the inhibition of spermatogenesis observed in AIDS patients.
Mammalian follicle-stimulating hormone stimulates DNA synthesis in secondary spermatogonia and Sertoli cells in organ culture of testes fragments from the newt, Cynops pyrrhogaster.	We previously showed in organ culture of testes fragments from Cynops pyrrhogaster that mammalian follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) stimulates secondary spermatogonia to differentiate into primary spermatocytes. In this report, we demonstrate in organ culture that FSH stimulates DNA synthesis in secondary spermatogonia and Sertoli cells: the numbers of secondary spermatogonia and Sertoli cells incorporating 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) throughout the culture period in the presence of FSH were 3-5 times those incorporating BrdU in the absence of FSH. Moreover, addition of FSH to testes fragments which had become quiescent after a week of culture in the absence of FSH, induced after a day a remarkable increase in the number of spermatogonia and Sertoli cells incorporating BrdU. The above results indicate that FSH stimulates and induces DNA synthesis in spermatogonia and Sertoli cells. Most of the spermatogonia within a cyst were labelled simultaneously and at the same density, indicating that they underwent synchronous DNA synthesis, whereas all the Sertoli cells within a cyst were not labelled simultaneously, indicating that they synthesised DNA asynchronously. When testes fragments pulse-labelled with BrdU were cultured in FSH for 14 days, the secondary spermatogonia differentiated into primary spermatocytes, whereas in the absence of FSH they failed to differentiate and most died by the 7th day. The above results together show that FSH is required for the proliferation of both secondary spermatogonia and Sertoli cells as well as the differentiation of secondary spermatogonia into primary spermatocytes.
Retinol differentially regulates male germ cell-associated kinase (mak) messenger ribonucleic acid expression during spermatogenesis.	Retinol down-regulates male germ cell-associated kinase (mak) transcripts during the spermatogonial proliferation phase of spermatogenesis. Mak transcripts of 2.6- and 3.4 kb were detected in vitamin A-deficient germ cells, but decreased to undetectable levels shortly after retinol replacement to vitamin A-deficient rats. In contrast, mak seems to play a role in spermatocytes and round spermatids during meiotic and post-meiotic events. The 3.4-kb transcript initially appeared in pachytene spermatocytes and continued to increase in round spermatids; the level of the 2.6-kb transcript increased markedly only in round spermatids. These transcripts also exhibited stage-specificity in synchronized retinol-regenerated rat seminiferous tubules. Silver grains were intensely localized mainly in round spermatids in stages IV-VI of the spermatogenic cycle in normal tests after in situ hybridization. These results suggest that the mak gene in early germ cells responds to retinol in an opposite manner from the mak gene in spermatocytes or in round spermatids. The findings support the existence of two distinct pathways of retinol signaling in the testis that depend on the spatial localization and development ages of the individual germ cells.
Radiation-induced DNA single-strand scission and its rejoining in spermatogonia and spermatozoa of mouse.	Gamma-ray-induced DNA single-strand scissions and the ability to repair the scissions in spermatogonia from young mice and in spermatozoa from adult mice were studied quantitatively by an alkaline sucrose density-gradient centrifugation method. The average size of DNAs in non-irradiated spermatogonia was 2.6--3.0 X 10(8) daltons, similar to those of a spermatid-rich population, and the size of DNA in non-irradiated spermatozoa was 1.2 X 10(8) daltons. In spermatogonia, the radiosensitivity of DNA was 0.42 single-strand breaks/10(12) daltons of DNA/rad in oxic conditions and only 0.24 under anoxic conditions. In spermatozoa the break efficiency of DNA was 0.22 single-strand breaks/10(12) daltons of DNA/rad under oxic conditions and altered little under anoxic irradiation. The DNA scissions were efficiently repaired in spermatogonia within 10 min, whereas the breaks in spermatozoa were not rejoined at all even after two days of post-irradiation time. The radiosensitivities of DNA, repair capability and non- and/or slow-reparable DNA scissions were compared in spermatogonium-rich, spermatid-rich and spermatozoan-rich populations.
The testis-specific high-mobility-group protein, a phosphorylation-dependent DNA-packaging factor of elongating and condensing spermatids.	Mammalian spermiogenesis is characterized by a striking restructuring of the spermatid chromatin caused by the replacement of nucleohistones with transition proteins and their subsequent replacement with nucleoprotamines. The onset of nuclear elongation and chromatin condensation in spermatids is accompanied by a general decrease in the transcriptional activity of the DNA. A recently identified testis-specific high-mobility-group (tsHMG) protein, similar to the human mitochondrial transcription factor I and to the linker-associated protein delta of Tetrahymena thermophila micronuclei, is thought to play a structural role in this process. We confirm by immunoblot analysis of fractionated germ cells that the presence of tsHMG is restricted to transcriptionally quiescent elongating and condensing spermatids. Purified recombinant tsHMG protein displays preferential binding to supercoiled plasmid DNA, which reversibly protects the DNA against the DNA-relaxing activity of eukaryotic topoisomerase I and also impairs the transcriptional activity of this template when assayed in vitro. The tsHMG protein can also introduce negative supercoils into a relaxed plasmid substrate in a topoisomerase I-dependent manner. We also show that the tsHMG protein is the substrate of a Ca2+-phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase C) present in testis extracts of adult mice and demonstrate that phosphorylation by protein kinase C is required for both the DNA-binding and the topoisomerase I-dependent supercoiling activities of tsHMG. Our results support the hypothesis that the spermatid tsHMG protein is a topological factor (transition protein) that can modulate the activity of topoisomerase I. This activity could contribute to the important transition in chromatin structure which leads to the decrease in DNA metabolism observed at the early stages of spermatid elongation.
Cloning of cDNA for newt WT1 and the differential expression during spermatogenesis of the Japanese newt, Cynops pyrrhogaster.	To investigate the function of Wilms' tumor 1 (WT1) during spermatogenesis, cDNA for newt WT1 homolog was cloned and the expression of WT1 in newt testes was examined. The cDNA is 2089 bp in length and encodes 426 amino acid (aa) residues. The deduced aa sequence shares 76 and 79% homology with human and Xenopus WT1, respectively. Northern blot analysis shows that WT1 mRNA, 3.2 and 4.5 kb in length, are expressed in the testis and kidney. Both WT1 mRNA species are detected in various stages of spermatogenesis, but the 3.2 kb mRNA is highly expressed in spermatogonia and mature sperm stages, while the amount of 4.5 kb mRNA is almost constant throughout spermatogenesis. In situ hybridization reveals that WT1 mRNA is localized in Sertoli cells. Moreover, immunohistochemical analysis shows that WT1 protein is highly expressed in the nuclei of Sertoli cells in early spermatogonia and mature sperm stages, but not in pericystic cells or germ cells. These results suggest that WT1 is involved in the regulation of gene expression in Sertoli cells, depending on the spermatogenic stage.
