Strategies for the infertile man.	Male infertility is one of the most common, identifiable causes of human reproductive failure. Although considerable progress has been made toward understanding sperm physiology and the biology of gamete interaction, still more work is needed to achieve objectivity and standardization of some of the andrological diagnostic methods used in the clinical setting. More information is needed to definitively establish which tests are more accurate predictors of sperm performance and how they correlate with pregnancy potential following in vivo and in vitro interventions. Infertile men can be successfully treated with defined urological and medical therapies or with assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs). Among the latter, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) has become a validated means to overcome multiple sperm deficiencies. Nevertheless, it is expected that simplified and more cost-efficient therapeutic modalities will be developed as additional basic (cellular-molecular) and clinical knowledge is gained.
Zona-binding inhibitory factor-1 from human follicular fluid is an isoform of glycodelin.	Zona-binding inhibitory factor-1 (ZIF-1), a glycoprotein in human follicular fluid, reduces the binding of spermatozoa to the zona pellucida. ZIF-1 has a number of properties similar to those of glycodelin-A from human follicular fluid. The objective of this study was to compare the biochemical characteristics of these two glycoproteins. N-terminal sequencing and protease-digested peptide mapping showed that ZIF-1 and glycodelin-A have the same protein core. However, these glycoproteins differ in their oligosaccharide chains, as demonstrated by fluorophore-assisted carbohydrate electrophoresis, lectin-binding ability, and isoelectric focusing. ZIF-1 inhibited spermatozoa-zona pellucida binding slightly more than did glycodelin-A and significantly suppressed progesterone-induced acrosome reaction of human spermatozoa. Indirect immunofluorescence staining revealed specific binding of glycodelin-A and ZIF-1 to the acrosome region of human spermatozoa, where ZIF-1 produced a stronger signal than did glycodelin-A at the same protein concentration. These data suggest that ZIF-1 is a differentially glycosylated isoform of glycodelin that potently inhibits human sperm-egg interaction. Future study on the function role of ZIF-1 would provide a better understanding of the regulation of fertilization in humans.
Towards a more precise assay of sperm function in egg binding.	Historically, the treatment of severe male factor infertility has relied on donor sperm insemination. A decade ago the option of treating severe male factor infertility with partner sperm became a viable alternative. With the introduction of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) in conjunction with in vitro fertilization (IVF), only men who produce no sperm are denied the option of fathering their own children. The use of ICSI has been extended to couples with mild male factors. Despite the known genetic risks (both inherent and de novo) of ICSI to offspring, couples with male factors as part of their infertility problem often prefer ICSI to standard IVF, due to apprehension that their sperm might not otherwise succeed in fertilization. This apprehension would be alleviated if an assay for the egg binding capability of human sperm were available. We examine here the possibility that recombinant human zona pellucida 3 (rec hZP3), the primary sperm receptor sulfoglycoprotein of the egg zona pellucida (ZP), be used as a human ZP surrogate for assessing sperm ability to bind to the ZP. Unlike human eggs, which cannot be obtained for this purpose, rec hZP3 can be produced in quantity. An efficient assay can be established by incubating sperm with rec hZP3 coated to a microwell plate. Infertile men with sperm having ability to bind to rec hZP3 can be advised to select standard IVF or intrauterine insemination, which have fewer genetic and medical risks.
Fertilization potential of human sperm is correlated with endogenous platelet-activating factor content.	Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent signaling phospholipid that is found in mammalian sperm and has a positive correlation with fertility. Whereas PAF is present in human sperm, there are no relational reports on its content and the cells fertilization potential. Therefore, the study objective was to determine if PAF content in capacitated-induced sperm is related to fertilization potential as determined by the sperm penetration assay (SPA).
Oocyte membrane maturation and oocyte-sperm relationship: transmission electron microscopy study.	The success of in vitro maturation (IVM) depends greatly on the acquisition of immature oocytes. Immature oocytes in prophase I (PI) and metaphase I (MI), aspirated after controlled ovarian hyperstimulation, were incapable of fertilization, leading to a lower fertilization rate. Therefore, they must be evaluated on a fine structure level for their in vitro maturation (IVM) processes and their relationship with sperm. Oocyte membrane maturation and oocyte-sperm relationship were studied using transmission electron microscopy. A total of 55 human oocytes obtained from 20 patients at various times and 83 oocytes obtained from the dissected ovarians of female Wistar rats were used for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) evaluation. Despite being in either prophase I and metaphase I or in metaphase II, the oocytes were not fertilized after 48 h of incubation. At the various stages of maturation between PI and MII, the number and the size of microvilluses on the oocyte membrane increased as MII approached and decreased after full maturation. Oocyte activation was related to oocyte membrane maturation and has an effect on the oocyte sperm penetration.
Fertility assessment through heterospermic insemination of flow-sorted sperm in cattle.	The ability to assess fertility of bovine sperm accurately and rapidly would be very useful for research and applications to the cattle industry. Sperm motility and other in vitro tests of sperm normality are only partially correlated with fertility, and lengthy breeding trials are expensive and time consuming. Heterospermic insemination by mixing sperm from more than one male provides an in vivo method to assess relative fertility among bulls that can be economical and rapid. Sperm that had been flow-sorted and cryopreserved from four groups of four bulls were inseminated in all combinations of three bulls within groups into nonsuperovulated heifers or superovulated heifers. Embryos were collected nonsurgically between d 13.5 and 20 following estrus and evaluated for paternity by genotyping. Following determination of paternity, a heterospermic index was created for each bull using a maximum likelihood function. These indices ranged from 0.22 +/- 0.15 to 2.43 +/- 0.43 (mean = 1.00, with a higher value indicative of greater fertility). In all four groups, either the high- or low-fertility bull was identified (P < 0.05) using a total of 25 to 36 genotypable embryos from nonsuperovulated heifers. The heterospermic rankings of bulls were similar for single and superovulated heifers for one group of bulls, but dissimilar for a second group. Heterospermic insemination followed by genotyping of embryos proved to be efficacious for rapidly ranking fertility of flow-sorted sperm from bulls when females were not superovulated, but results were less clear when females were superovulated.
The mechanism of sperm-oocyte fusion in mammals.	Sperm-oocyte fusion is one of the most impressive events in sexual reproduction, and the elucidation of its molecular mechanism has fascinated researchers for a long time. Because of the limitation of materials and difficulties in analyzing membrane protein-protein interactions, many attempts have failed to reach this goal. Recent studies involving gene targeting have clearly demonstrated the various molecules that are involved in sperm-oocyte binding and fusion. Sperm ADAMs (family of proteins with a disintegrin and metalloprotease domain), including fertilin alpha, fertilin beta and cyritestin, have been investigated and found to be important for binding rather than for fusion and painstaking studies have raised suspicions that their putative receptors, oocyte integrins, are necessary for the sperm-oocyte interaction. Recently, several studies have focused the spotlight on CD9 and glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins on oocytes, and epididymal protein DE on sperm, as candidate molecules involved in sperm-oocyte fusion. Lack of, or interference with the function of, these proteins can disrupt the sperm-oocyte fusion without changing the binding. In this review we highlight the candidate molecules involved in the sperm-oocyte interaction suggested from the recent progress in this research field.
Are Src family kinases involved in cell cycle resumption in rat eggs?	The earliest visible indications for the transition to embryos in mammalian eggs, known as egg activation, are cortical granules exocytosis (CGE) and resumption of meiosis (RM); these events are triggered by the fertilizing spermatozoon through a series of Ca2+ transients. The pathways, within the egg, leading to the intracellular Ca2+ release and to the downstream cellular events, are currently under intensive investigation. The involvement of Src family kinases (SFKs) in Ca2+ release at fertilization is well supported in marine invertebrate eggs but not in mammalian eggs. In a previous study we have shown the expression and localization of Fyn, the first SFK member demonstrated in the mammalian egg. The purpose of the current study was to identify other common SFKs and resolve their function during activation of mammalian eggs. All three kinases examined: Fyn, c-Src and c-Yes are distributed throughout the egg cytoplasm. However, Fyn and c-Yes tend to concentrate at the egg cortex, though only Fyn is localized to the spindle as well. The different localizations of the various SFKs imply the possibility of their different functions within the egg. To examine whether SFKs participate in the signal transduction pathways during egg activation, we employed selective inhibitors of the SFKs activity (PP2 and SU6656). The results demonstrate that RM, which is triggered by Ca2+ elevation, is an SFK-dependent process, while CGE, triggered by either Ca2+ elevation or protein kinase C (PKC), is not. The possible involvement of SFKs in the signal transduction pathways that lead from the sperm-egg fusion site downstream of the Ca2+ release remains unclear.
Conventional PKCs regulate the temporal pattern of Ca2+ oscillations at fertilization in mouse eggs.	In mammalian eggs, sperm-induced Ca2+ oscillations at fertilization are the primary trigger for egg activation and initiation of embryonic development. Identifying the downstream effectors that decode this unique Ca2+ signal is essential to understand how the transition from egg to embryo is coordinated. Here, we investigated whether conventional PKCs (cPKCs) can decode Ca2+ oscillations at fertilization. By monitoring the dynamics of GFP-labeled PKCalpha and PKCgamma in living mouse eggs, we demonstrate that cPKCs translocate to the egg membrane at fertilization following a pattern that is shaped by the amplitude, duration, and frequency of the Ca2+ transients. In addition, we show that cPKC translocation is driven by the C2 domain when Ca2+ concentration reaches 1-3 microM. Finally, we present evidence that one physiological function of activated cPKCs in fertilized eggs is to sustain long-lasting Ca2+ oscillations, presumably via the regulation of store-operated Ca2+ entry.
Ligands and receptors mediating signal transduction in sea urchin spermatozoa.	Sea urchins have long been a model system for the study of fertilization. Much has been learned about how sea urchin sperm locate and fertilize the egg. Sperm and eggs are spawned simultaneously into the surrounding seawater. Sperm signaling pathways lead to downstream events that ensure fertilization. Upon spawning, sperm must acquire motility and then they must swim towards or respond to the egg in some way. Finally, they must undergo a terminal exocytotic event known as the acrosome reaction that allows the sperm to bind to the vitelline layer of the egg and then to fuse with the egg plasma membrane. Motility is stimulated by exposure to seawater, while later events are orchestrated by factors from the egg. The sperm signaling pathways are exquisitely tuned to bring the sperm to the egg, bind, and fuse the two cells as quickly as possible.
Nontransitivity of paternity in a bird.	In many animals reproductive success is determined after insemination by the interaction of male and female processes. While sperm competition is reasonably well understood in some taxa, other processes, such as cryptic female choice and differential early embryo mortality resulting from genetic incompatibilities, are less well understood. The relative importance of these different factors contributing to reproductive success is difficult to assess. Here we control for male-mediated effects (which are often considerable and can mask more subtle processes) through the artificial insemination of known numbers of sperm in the domestic fowl to reveal that male reproductive success is nontransitive across females: the success of a particular male depends on the background against which his sperm compete for fertilization. Two potential processes could account for this effect: cryptic female choice (sperm choice) or differential early embryo mortality. Regardless of the mechanism, nontransitivity of male reproductive success has important evolutionary consequences, including the maintenance of variation in male fitness.
Sperm competition in mammals.	Although Darwin identified the evolutionary significance of competition between males in the context of reproduction, it is only in the past few decades that we have begun to appreciate the importance of competition at the gametic level. Sperm competition, defined as competition between the sperm of two or more males for fertilization of the same set of ova, is now recognised as a key selective force shaping male reproductive anatomy, physiology and behaviour across diverse animal groups, including mammals. The aim of this article is to provide a brief review of the selective consequences of sperm competition in mammals, with emphasis on recent theoretical advances and empirical controversies. Evidence of female influences on sperm competition outcomes in mammals is also discussed, and it is concluded that understanding the selective pressures driving coevolution between male and female reproductive traits remains a major challenge for researchers in this field.
CASK is in the mammalian sperm head and is processed during epididymal maturation.	Upon adhesion to the zona pellucida or egg extracellular matrix, sperm undergo regulated exocytosis of the acrosomal vesicle. CASK is an adaptor protein that has been implicated in coupling neuronal cell adhesion to regulated exocytosis. In neurons, this scaffolding molecule is associated with several types of transmembrane receptor complexes and connects cell adhesion molecules with ion channels, the actin cytoskeleton, and the cell's exocytotic machinery. We hypothesized CASK might also be an important link between zona pellucida binding and the sperm acrosome reaction. RT-PCR experiments indicated CASK is transcribed in mouse testis. The full size (120 kDa) CASK protein was present in testis from mouse and pig. Immunoblots of mature porcine and murine sperm revealed that the 120 kDa molecule was much less abundant than in testis but the antibody also recognized a group of smaller proteins migrating at 55-65 kDa. Immunofluorescence experiments indicated both the full length and smaller CASK immunoreactive products were found only in the acrosomal region of spermatids and mature sperm and not in other testicular cell types. CASK immunofluorescence was lost following the acrosome reaction. During epididymal maturation, the abundance of the full size CASK decreased and the CASK fragments increased. These results suggest that CASK may be proteolytically processed during epididymal maturation. Because sperm acquire the ability to bind the zona pellucida, acrosome react, and fertilize eggs during epididymal maturation, CASK processing may play a role in the acquisition of these functions.
Membrane and cortical abnormalities in post-ovulatory aged eggs: analysis of fertilizability and establishment of the membrane block to polyspermy.	Fertilization at increased times after ovulation is associated with poor reproductive outcomes. This study examines the effects of post-ovulatory ageing on egg membrane function through analyses of mouse eggs collected at 13 and 22 h post-HCG ('young' and 'aged' eggs, respectively). Experiments in which fertilized zona pellucida-free young and aged eggs are challenged with additional sperm reveal that aged eggs are less able to establish a membrane block to prevent polyspermy, since sperm penetrate 24% of fertilized aged eggs but are unable to penetrate fertilized young eggs. This is not due to a failure of aged eggs to respond to fertilization, as the extent of sperm-induced cortical granule exocytosis is similar in aged and young eggs. Post-ovulatory ageing also affects egg membrane receptivity to sperm as a subset of zona pellucida-free aged eggs are slow to fertilize or resistant to fertilization. Sperm binding to young and aged eggs is similar, but aged eggs develop cytoskeletal abnormalities that may affect membrane/cortical function, such as the ability of the egg membrane to support sperm-egg fusion. These data demonstrate that the poor reproductive outcomes associated with post-ovulatory ageing could be a result of reduced fertilization, due to reduced egg membrane receptivity to sperm, or a result of increased incidence of polyspermy, due to the reduced ability to establish a membrane block to polyspermy. This analysis of egg membrane function deficiencies provides insights into post-ovulatory ageing and has implications for assisted reproductive technologies.
Gamete fusion and cytokinesis preceding zygote establishment in the sexual process of Dictyostelium discoideum.	Cells of Dictyostelium discoideum become sexually mature under submerged and dark conditions, and fuse with opposite mating-type cells to form zygote giant cells, which gather surrounding cells and finally develop into dormant structures called macrocysts. In the present study, we found that the multinuclear fused cells formed during this process frequently underwent cytokinesis driven by random local movements. The split cells were capable of re-fusion, and repeated cytokinesis. These radical behaviors continued until the extensive cell aggregation started around the giant cells. Thus, gamete fusion and initiation of zygote development do not coincide in the mating of D. discoideum. Analyses by confocal microscopy and flow cytometry indicated that the cessation of the random movement followed pronuclear fusion, and that microtubule organizing centers (MTOC), abundant in the fused cells at the beginning, gradually decreased and only one of them remained within the developed macrocyst. Some of the genes known to control cell movement, such as rasGEFB and rasS, increased shortly before the cessation of repeated fusion-cytokinesis and initiation of phagocytosis. These results suggest that the sequential molecular events are necessary in D. discoideum after gamete fusion to establish a new individuality of zygotes.
Molecular physiology and pathology of Ca2+-conducting channels in the plasma membrane of mammalian sperm.	Current evidence indicates that mechanisms controlling the intracellular Ca2+ concentration play pivotal roles in determining sperm fertilizing ability. Multiple Ca2+-permeable channels have been identified and characterized in the plasma membrane and in the acrosome membrane of mammalian sperm. This review summarizes the recent findings and assesses the evidence suggesting that these channels play roles in controlling a host of sperm functions ranging from motility to the acrosome reaction, and describes recent advances in the identification of the underlying gene defects of inherited sperm Ca2+ channelopathies.
Role of actin cytoskeleton in mammalian sperm capacitation and the acrosome reaction.	In order to fertilize, the mammalian spermatozoa should reside in the female reproductive tract for several hours, during which they undergo a series of biochemical modifications collectively called capacitation. Only capacitated sperm can undergo the acrosome reaction after binding to the egg zona pellucida, a process which enables sperm to penetrate into the egg and fertilize it. Polymerization of globular (G)-actin to filamentous (F)-actin occurs during capacitation, depending on protein kinase A activation, protein tyrosine phosphorylation, and phospholipase D activation. F-actin formation is important for the translocation of phospholipase C from the cytosol to the sperm plasma membrane during capacitation. Prior to the occurrence of the acrosome reaction, the F-actin should undergo depolymerization, a necessary process which enables the outer acrosomal membrane and the overlying plasma membrane to come into close proximity and fuse. The binding of the capacitated sperm to the zona pellucida induces a fast increase in sperm intracellular calcium, activation of actin severing proteins which break down the actin fibers, and allows the acrosome reaction to take place.
Serine protease activity, bovine sperm protease, 66 kDa (BSp66), is present in hamster sperm and is involved in sperm-zona interaction.	Bovine sperm protease, 66 kDa (BSp66) is a serine protease previously characterized in bovine spermatozoa. Like other proteases, it may be present in sperm from other mammalian species different from bovine, playing a role in the fertilization process. In this study, we looked for BSp66 in hamster spermatozoa using heterologous antibodies against bovine BSp66. An immunoreactive protein was detected by Western blotting in mature and immature sperm. The detected protein had two isoforms similar to the ones reported in bovine sperm. Furthermore, indirect immune detection by fluorescence and electron microscopy assays, showed BSp66 signal at the acrosomal region similar to bovine sperm. As it was determined in bovine sperm, the acrosomal reaction displays the antigen within the acrosomal content. When live hamster sperm was incubated with polyclonal antibody against bovine BSp66 a decrease in the number of sperm bound to zona pellucida in homologous IVF and an impairment of head-head agglutination, were observed. These results suggest that a protease homologous to bovine BSp66 is present in golden hamster spermatozoa, with a conserved molecular mass and cellular location. Moreover, hamster BSp66 is probably involved in zona pellucida recognition.
Repetitive calcium stimuli drive meiotic resumption and pronuclear development during mouse oocyte activation.	Freshly ovulated (12 hr post hCG) F1 (C57BL/6 x CBA) hybrid mouse oocytes were parthenogenetically activated by repetitive elevation of Ca2+ induced by carefully controlled electrical pulses. Different patterns of stimulation were employed to examine the role of repetitive calcium changes on meiotic resumption and pronuclear development. In the first series of experiments oocytes received 33 electrical pulses of 1.8 kV/cm delivered every 4 min. The pulse duration decreased according to a negative exponential equation from a 900-microseconds first pulse to give a total pulse duration of 18.721 msec. The strength of calcium stimuli was varied by changing the concentration of CaCl2 in the medium. Ninety-eight percent of the oocytes stimulated with 12 microM calcium extruded the second polar body by the end of treatment and 92% completed pronuclear formation between 3.5 and 8 hr after the first pulse. For higher or lower Ca2+ concentrations the proportion of oocytes developing pronuclei decreased; the timing of pronuclear formation was retarded and the majority of oocytes failed to form a pronucleus after extrusion of the second polar body. In the second series of experiments, the strength of the calcium stimuli was modulated by changing the duration of the 33 electrical pulses given in the presence of 12 microM calcium. By increasing the total pulse duration to 33.958 msec, 100% of the oocytes activated and completed pronuclear formation between 3 and 5 hr after the first electric pulse. Stimulation protocols of lower total pulse duration (less than 18.721 msec) gave rise to high rates of partial activation (up to 95%). Examination of these partially activated oocytes showed metaphases with haploid sets of chromatids characteristic of third meiotic metaphase arrest. The results indicate that repetitive calcium stimuli can regulate the rate and extent of meiotic resumption and the time course of pronuclear formation during mouse oocyte activation. They suggest that meiotic resumption in mammalian oocytes is regulated by the amplitude and frequency of cytosolic calcium oscillations induced by the activating stimulus.
Contribution of mouse egg zona pellucida glycoproteins to gamete recognition during fertilization.	For sperm to fertilize eggs, they must first bind to the thick zona pellucida (ZP) that surrounds the plasma membrane of all unfertilized mammalian eggs. An extensive literature suggests that mouse sperm recognize and bind to a specific ZP glycoprotein called mZP3. However, the role of individual ZP glycoproteins in binding of mouse sperm to eggs has been called into question by recent transgenic experiments with null mice. Results of such experiments have been interpreted to mean that binding of sperm depends on the supramolecular structure of the ZP, not on an individual ZP glycoprotein. Here, it is argued that results of these transgenic experiments actually are consistent with the prevailing view of gamete recognition that implicates a specific ZP glycoprotein in both binding of mouse sperm to eggs and induction of the acrosome reaction.
Precontact mammalian sperm-egg communication and role in fertilization.	In creatures with external fertilization, e.g., metazoa, it is well established that there is precontact sperm-egg communication in the form of chemotaxis. An intriguing question is whether also in mammals, where fertilization is internal and the need for precontact sperm-egg communication is not self-evident, such a process occurs and what its physiological significance may be. Here we review the evidence related to such a process in mammals, evidence which suggests that sperm attraction to the ovulated egg may indeed occur. On the basis of the available data we propose a hypothesis, according to which a sperm population is heterogeneous with respect to its physiological state; some spermatozoa are at a physiological state ready for fertilizing an egg, while others are premature or overmature. According to the hypothesis this is a dynamic state; the population of fertilizing spermatozoa gradually loses its potency and, at the same time, other spermatozoa mature and acquire fertilizing ability. After ovulation, only the fertilizing spermatozoa are attracted to the egg, while the rest are either repelled or inhibited and thus prevented from reaching the egg. The potential significance of sperm-egg communication is discussed.
Effects of antibodies to sperm surface fertilization antigen-1 on human sperm-zona pellucida interaction.	To investigate the effects of antibodies to well-defined sperm surface antigens (the fertilization antigen [FA-1] and germ-cell antigen [GA-1]) and nuclear antigen (protamine) on human sperm-zona interaction.
Effect of dilauroylphosphatidylcholine on human spermatozoa.	To achieve higher rates of acrosomal loss for in vitro studies of human sperm function, the effect of liposomes prepared from the phospholipid, dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (PC12), on human spermatozoa was investigated. In general, acrosome loss was induced with PC12 with an associated decline in the percentage of motile spermatozoa. Reduction of bovine serum albumin concentration in the incubation medium from 12 mg/mL to 3 mg/mL resulted in a more pronounced effect of PC12, with a significant reduction (P less than 0.001) in the percentage of motile spermatozoa within 1 hour of incubation with PC12. The percentage of spermatozoa observed to be acrosome-free under staining with fluorescein-conjugated Concanavalin A lectin was significantly reduced (P less than 0.05) when spermatozoa were incubated with PC12 (260 mumol/L) in the absence of calcium. The percentage of motile spermatozoa was not different during PC12 incubations when Ca2+ concentration (0, 2.5, and 5 mmol/L) was altered. An active motility pattern was restored in PC12-treated human spermatozoa by subsequent incubation in a defined medium containing 7.5 mmol/L adenosine 5'-triphosphate and 20 mumol/L cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphate. It was demonstrated that PC12-treated human spermatozoa were capable of binding to the zona pellucida of salt-stored human oocytes once an active motility pattern had been restored.
Complementarity between sperm surface beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase and egg-coat ZP3 mediates sperm-egg binding.	Despite its importance, the molecular basis of mammalian gamete recognition has remained unclear. The enzyme beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase (Gal-transferase) has been viewed traditionally as a biosynthetic component of the Golgi complex, but is also found on the surface of many cells where it can bind its specific glycoside substrate on adjacent cell surfaces or in the extracellular matrix. In mouse it has been suggested that Gal-transferase on the sperm head mediates fertilization by binding oligosaccharide residues in the egg coat, or zona pellucida, and that the ability of the zona pellucida to bind sperm is conferred by oligosaccharides of the ZP3 glycoprotein. However, it has not been confirmed that Gal-transferase and ZP3 are in fact complementary gamete receptors whose interaction mediates sperm-egg binding. Here we show that mouse sperm Gal-transferase specifically recognizes those oligosaccharides on ZP3 that have sperm-binding activity, but does not interact with other zona pellucida glycoproteins. In contrast, all zona pellucida glycoproteins are recognized by non-sperm Gal-transferase, demonstrating a more stringent substrate specificity for the sperm enzyme. This interaction is required for sperm-egg binding because blocking or removing the binding site for Gal-transferase on ZP3 inhibits its ability to bind sperm. After the release of the sperm acrosome, the transferase relocalizes to a new membrane domain where it can no longer bind to ZP3, which is consistent with the inability of acrosome-reacted sperm to bind ZP3 or to initiate binding to the zona pellucida. Following fertilization, ZP3 is modified by egg cortical granule secretions so that it loses sperm receptor activity, which can be accounted for by a selective loss of its binding site for sperm Gal-transferase. These results show that sperm surface beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase and the egg-coat glycoprotein ZP3 are complementary adhesion molecules that mediate primary gamete binding in the mouse.
Human spermatozoa do not undergo the acrosome reaction during storage in the cervix.	Incubation of human spermatozoa in capacitation media for 24 hours resulted in a significant increase in acrosome-reacted spermatozoa compared with preincubation (baseline) levels. By contrast, sperm samples recovered from the cervix for as long as 72 hours after coitus showed only baseline percentages of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa. These results indicate that human spermatozoa do not undergo the acrosome reaction during cervical storage even if they undergo capacitation.
Harnessing the biology of the oviduct for the benefit of artificial insemination.	Spermatozoa fulfil a single role, namely achieving syngamy by transporting the haploid genome to their counterpart gamete, the oocyte. Simple as this may seem, it is fraught with many difficulties, especially in the face of biological processes that enable females to select spermatozoa after they have mated multiply with several males. Conversely, the female reproductive tract sequesters a privileged sperm subpopulation in the oviductal isthmus for variable periods of time, releasing them when the time is opportune for fertilisation. Recent studies of sperm transport in the female reproductive tract suggest that these phenomena involve signalling dialogues between spermatozoa and the female reproductive tract environment. Opportunities for mutual signalling are immense but have received relatively little attention. The oviduct is an organ of crucial significance in modulating sperm function and may be one of the most important sites for determining many aspects of sperm selection and competition. The oviductal environment possesses the potential for enhancing sperm survival, suppressing and activating sperm motility as required, and responds to the arrival of spermatozoa by producing novel proteins. While the biological nature of the sperm-oviduct dialogue is interesting for its own sake, the mechanisms that govern these processes offer opportunities for the improvement of artificial insemination procedures. If oviductal proteins enhance sperm survival, they offer opportunities for the development of long-life semen diluents. Conversely, if we understood the basis of sperm selection we may be able to concentrate on identifying and using only the best sperm subpopulations for improved animal breeding efficiency.
Structural, biochemical and functional aspects of sperm-oocyte interactions in pigs.	Polyspermic fertilization is still a major issue in porcine IVF systems. New information is available to characterize the zona pellucida (ZP) at different developmental stages by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and by confocal microscopy to show the distribution of ZP glycoproteins. SEM images indicated no differences between in vivo and in vitro matured oocytes; however a change in the surface structure between immature and matured oocytes, as well as between mature oocytes and preimplantation embryos was obvious. In addition, spermatozoa were more tightly fixed in the ZP of in vivo produced compared to the ZP of in vitro produced embryos. The ZP undergoes biochemical changes during maturation prior to fertilization. The acidity of the ZP increases during maturation as indicated by a shift of 1.3 pl units for ZPB/ZPC and 0.8 pl units for ZPA in 2D gel electrophoresis, which is based on increasing sulfation of the oligosaccharides during maturation. Mass spectrometry in combination with in-gel deglycosylation allowed the mapping of new glycosylation sites. Functionality of the ZP also depends on its maturation status. Induction of the acrosome reaction was delayed when capacitated spermatozoa were exposed to immature oocytes.
Cytological mechanisms of gynogenesis and sperm incorporation in unreduced diploid eggs of the clonal loach, Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (Teleostei: Cobitidae).	The loach Misgurnus anguillicaudatus comprises diploid clonal, triploid and diploid-triploid mosaic individuals in a wild population on Hokkaido island, Japan. When diploid eggs of clonal loaches are fertilized by haploid sperm of normal bisexual loaches, both diploid clonal and non-diploid aclonal individuals occur in the progeny. Flow cytometry and microsatellite analyses revealed that the occurrence of triploid, diploid-triploid and other progeny was essentially due to the genetic incorporation of sperm to diploid clonal genomes of unreduced eggs. In this study, we examined the influence of water temperature from fertilization to early embryogenesis on frequencies of diploid clonal and other progeny and observed that progeny of three out of four clonal females examined exhibited approximately constant rates of diploid clonal individuals (54.2-68.9%) at hatching stage. Thus, no drastic increase of non-diploid progeny was detected. However, the 28 degrees C group of the fourth clonal female gave significantly lower rate (28.1%) of diploid clonal progeny, suggesting that this temperature might be a critical or a borderline temperature inducing sperm incorporation. We also examined the cytological process by which diploid clonal and other aclonal progeny develop after fertilization. In some fertilized eggs, the sperm nucleus remained condensed throughout fertilization and early embryogenesis and never fused with the female pronucleus. This cytological observation concludes that clonal eggs develop by the mechanism of gynogenesis. However, some other eggs showed the cytological process of syngamy between the female pronucleus and an accidentally formed male nucleus, suggesting the formation of triploid progeny. The syngamy between an accidentally activated sperm nucleus with a male pronucleus-like structure and nucleus of a blastomere of gynogenetically developing clonal diploid embryo might produce a diploid-triploid mosaic individual.
Glycodelin-A interacts with fucosyltransferase on human sperm plasma membrane to inhibit spermatozoa-zona pellucida binding.	Fertilization depends on successful binding of the spermatozoa to the zona pellucida of the oocyte. Glycodelin-A inhibits spermatozoa-zona pellucida binding. Previous data showed that glycodelin-A receptor(s) and zona pellucida protein receptor(s) on human spermatozoa are closely related. Using a chemical cross-linking approach, the glycodelin-A-sperm receptor complex was isolated. The receptor was identified to be fucosyltransferase-5 (FUT5) by mass spectrometry and confirmed with the use of anti-FUT5 antibodies. Sperm FUT5 was an externally oriented integral membrane protein in the acrosomal region of human spermatozoa. Biologically active FUT5 was purified from spermatozoa. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed the interaction between glycodelin-A and sperm FUT5. Solubilized zona pellucida reduced the binding of glycodelin-A to sperm FUT5. An anti-FUT5 antibody and FUT5 acceptor blocked the binding of glycodelin-A to spermatozoa and the zona binding inhibitory activity of glycodelin-A. Sperm FUT5 bound strongly to intact and solubilized human zona pellucida. The equilibrium dissociation constant of sperm FUT5 binding to solubilized zona pellucida was 42.82 pmol/ml. These observations suggest that human sperm FUT5 is a receptor of glycodelin-A and zona pellucida proteins, and that glycodelin-A inhibits spermatozoa-zona binding by blocking the binding of sperm FUT5 to the zona pellucida.
Evidence for the involvement of testicular protein CRISP2 in mouse sperm-egg fusion.	CRISP2, originally known as Tpx-1, is a cysteine-rich secretory protein specifically expressed in male haploid germ cells. Although likely to be involved in gamete interaction, evidence for a functional role of CRISP2 in fertilization still remains poor. In the present study, we used a mouse model to examine the subcellular localization of CRISP2 in sperm and its involvement in the different stages of fertilization. Results from indirect immunofluorescence and protein extraction experiments indicated that mouse CRISP2 is an intraacrosomal component that remains associated with sperm after capacitation and the acrosome reaction (AR). In vitro fertilization assays using zona pellucida-intact mouse eggs showed that an antibody against the protein significantly decreased the percentage of penetrated eggs, with a coincident accumulation of perivitelline sperm. The failure to inhibit zona pellucida penetration excludes a detrimental effect of the antibody on sperm motility or the AR, supporting a specific participation of CRISP2 at the sperm-egg fusion step. In agreement with this evidence, recombinant mouse CRISP2 (recCRISP2) specifically bound to the fusogenic area of mouse eggs, as previously reported for rat CRISP1, an epididymal protein involved in gamete fusion. In vitro competition investigations showed that incubation of mouse zona-free eggs with a fixed concentration of recCRISP2 and increasing amounts of rat CRISP1 reduced the binding of recCRISP2 to the egg, suggesting that the proteins interact with common complementary sites on the egg surface. Our findings indicate that testicular CRISP2, as observed for epididymal CRISP1, is involved in sperm-egg fusion through its binding to complementary sites on the egg surface, supporting the idea of functional cooperation between homologous molecules to ensure the success of fertilization.
Applications of flow cytometry to artificial insemination: a review.	Flow cytometry is a technique in which sub-populations of cells can be analysed and separated according to the staining pattern seen with various fluorescent markers. This review describes some of the ways in which flow cytometry can be applied to the investigation of sperm populations, either as a means of quality control of semen or to examine the characteristics of different sub-populations of sperm within an ejaculate. These methods can replace or augment existing subjective assessments of semen characteristics. Using this technique it is possible to produce aliquots of sexed sperm for insemination or for in vitro fertilisation. An objective assessment can be made of the effects of environmental stress on male physiology by monitoring changes in semen quality.
Transcription reactivation steps stimulated by oocyte maturation in C. elegans.	Developing oocytes produce materials that will support early embryonic development then cease transcription before fertilization. Later, a distinct transcription program is established in the embryo. Little is understood about how these global gene regulation transitions are effected. We have investigated in C. elegans how oocyte transcription is influenced by maturation, a process that releases meiotic arrest and prepares for fertilization. By monitoring transcription-associated phosphorylation of the RNA polymerase II (Pol II) C-terminal domain (CTD), we find that oocyte transcription shuts down independently of maturation. Surprisingly, maturation signals then induce CTD phosphorylation that is associated specifically with transcription initiation steps and accumulates to high levels when expression of the CTD phosphatase FCP-1 is inhibited. This CTD phosphorylation is also uncovered when a ubiquitylation pathway is blocked, or when maturation is stimulated precociously. CTD phosphorylation is similarly detected during embryonic mitosis, when transcription is also largely silenced. We conclude that oocyte maturation signals induce abortive transcription events in which FCP-1 may recycle phosphorylated Pol II and that analogous processes may occur during mitosis. Our findings suggest that maturation signals may initiate preparations for embryonic transcription, possibly as part of a broader program that begins the transition from maternal to zygotic gene expression.
Cell-cell membrane fusion during mammalian fertilization.	The mechanism of sperm-egg fusion in mammals is a research area that has greatly benefited from the use of gene deletion technology. Because fertilization is internal in mammals and the gametes (particularly the eggs) are sparse in number, in vitro studies have considerable limitations. Using gene deletions, a few cell surface proteins in both gametes have been identified as essential for gamete fusion. Ongoing studies are directed at analysis of the function of these proteins and the search for additional proteins that may be involved in this process. So far, no mammalian proteins have been found that also function in sperm-egg fusion of non-mammalian species or in other types of cell-cell fusion.
Prevention of zona hardening in non-human primate oocytes cultured in protein-free medium.	Development of a protein-free medium for in vitro maturation of oocytes that prevents zona hardening is essential for the study of components that affect the maturation process.
Non-genomic steroid actions in human spermatozoa. "Persistent tickling from a laden environment".	As sperm traverse the female tract from vagina to oocyte, they experience a steroid milieu, which due to transcriptional inactivity, they can only respond to via non-genomic signaling. This environment mediates events including capacitation, changes in motility patterns, chemotaxis, and acrosome reaction. Current knowledge of the events, calcium signaling pathways, and potential identity of receptors involved is reviewed in light of recent data, with a context for further work in the field, and emphasizing the importance of steroids as a mixed stimulant. Progesterone receptor candidates are considered in light of recent findings, including novel classes of receptors such as a progesterone membrane receptor component-1 or -2 complex with serpine-1 mRNA binding protein, the best candidate so far for progesterone activity in human sperm. Given the number of other alternative candidates and the apparent diversity of the signaling pathways activated, the presence of multiple species of progesterone receptors should not be excluded. Given that sperm dysfunction is the most common defined cause of infertility, advances in our currently limited knowledge of these pathways and events are crucial to not only create better therapies but also improve rational diagnosis.
Transforming growth factor beta 1 enhances expression of 50 kDa protein related to 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase in human sperm cells.	Human cellular polypeptide factors, namely interferon-alpha, interferon-gamma transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, and TGF-beta 1, were analyzed for their effect on motility of human sperm cells. Both interferons caused an inhibition of sperm cell motility due to direct cytotoxic effects without inducing 2'-5' oligoadenylate [2-5(A)]synthetase activity. TGF-alpha affected neither motility nor the levels of 2-5(A) synthetase in sperm cells. TGF-beta 1 had no affect on sperm motility, yet it caused an induction of 2-5(A)synthetase activity. Western immunoblot analysis of TGF-beta 1-treated sperm indicated an enhancement of a 50 kDa protein. Metabolic labeling of sperm cells revealed biosynthesis of one major protein of 50 kDa and at least five minor proteins in the range of 30-92 kDa; the level of 50 kDa protein increased after treatment with TGF-beta 1. The treatment of sperm cells with TGF-beta 1 did not affect their penetration in zona-free hamster eggs (SPA). These results indicate that TGF-beta 1 enhances expression of a 50 kDa protein related to 2-5(A) synthetase in human sperm cells along with other minor proteins, and this increase does not affect sperm motility and SPA.
Successful pregnancy using known donor oocytes fertilized in vitro by spermatozoa obtained by electro-ejaculation from a quadriplegic husband.	A 34-year-old quadriplegic man with a C6/C7 spinal cord lesion of 10 years' duration fathered a child with his 35-year-old wife who had undergone a premature menopause 10 years earlier. Pregnancy was achieved from in-vitro fertilization of two oocytes donated by the wife's sister using spermatozoa from the husband obtained by repeated electro-ejaculation techniques. A healthy male infant weighing 2250 g was delivered by Caesarean section at 37 weeks following mild pre-eclampsia.
Hamster sperm-associated alpha-L-fucosidase functions during fertilization.	Sperm-associated alpha-L-fucosidases have been identified in diverse organisms. Their wide phylogenetic distribution and known properties support the likelihood that L-fucose and alpha-L-fucosidase have fundamental function(s) during gamete interaction. This is consistent with the substantial evidence in the literature documenting the importance of carbohydrate moieties during fertilization. Direct enzyme assays were employed to evaluate the functional distribution of alpha-L-fucosidase in preparations of hamster sperm. In vitro fertilization was performed using Syrian hamster sperm and eggs to identify the functional role of hamster sperm-associated alpha-L-fucosidase during zona pellucida binding/penetration, sperm-egg membrane fusion, and postfusion events. Results reported here document the presence of hamster sperm-associated alpha-L-fucosidase and demonstrate that it functions during fertilization at the stage of sperm-oocyte membrane interaction and/or postfusion events within the zygote. Understanding the role of alpha-L-fucosidase during human fertilization could lead to development of improved infertility treatments.
A preferential site for sperm-egg fusion in mammals.	The tendency of mammalian sperm-egg fusion to occur at a site away from the first polar body was investigated in a homologous (mouse oocytes and mouse spermatozoa) and in a heterologous model (hamster oocytes and mouse spermatozoa). Following micromanipulation of the zona pellucida either in proximity to or opposite the first polar body, in vitro fertilization was performed and subsequent differences in sperm-egg interaction were evaluated. Since spermatozoa from random-bred mice do not readily penetrate intact zonae pellucidae in vitro, it is likely that zona penetration occurred through the artificial holes in both models. The creation of a gap in the zona pellucida opposite the first polar body was associated with levels of sperm fusion that were significantly higher than those resulting from manipulation near the first polar body. Spermatozoa were rarely found to penetrate the hole completely, and in general few spermatozoa were observed in the pervitelline space. The proximity between pronuclei following sperm penetration was correlated with the position of the incision with respect to the polar body. The findings suggest that breaching the zona pellucida for microsurgical fertilization should be performed away from the microvillus-free area of the oocyte.
In vitro interactions of eutherian ova/spermatozoa: significance for orientation/binding of gametes.	Ova are observed in vitro to rotate counterclockwise immediately following sperm attachment. This phenomenon was examined in both human-hamster and hamster-hamster systems. The counterclockwise rotation has been found to be directly proportional to the efficiency of in vitro penetration or fertilization. These observations indicate that the eutherian ova possess a definite polarity and that the sperm attachment follow a given geometry.
How the egg regulates sperm function during gamete interaction: facts and fantasies.	Although details of the molecular mechanism are not yet clear, considerable evidence suggests that the egg-specific extracellular matrix component ZP3 regulates an essential event of sperm function, the acrosome reaction. Spatial control of this exocytotic event appears to be exerted by immobilization of the triggering ligand, ZP3, in the zona pellucida matrix surrounding the egg. Our data suggest that the signal transduction pathway in sperm activated by this ligand involves highly conserved components that are involved in many other eukaryotic signalling events. Recent experiments indicate that the murine zona pellucida glycoprotein ZP3 regulates acrosomal exocytosis by aggregating its corresponding receptors (ZP3-Rs) located in the mouse sperm plasma membrane. In other experiments, we have identified a putative ZP3-R of mouse sperm with Mr 95,000. Indirect immunofluorescence localizes this ZP3-R, termed p95, to the acrosomal region of the mouse sperm head, which is the anticipated location for ZP3-Rs. Membrane fractionation studies indicate that p95 cofractionates with a plasma membrane-enriched preparation from sperm that contains zona pellucida-receptor activity. In addition to its role as a ZP3-R, p95 also serves as a substrate for a tyrosine kinase in response to zona pellucida binding. On the basis of the data presented here, and borrowing heavily from findings for other signalling systems, we have formulated two testable hypotheses that are compatible with the available data: either p95 is itself a protein tyrosine kinase receptor, or p95 serves as a ZP3 receptor and is separate from a protein tyrosine kinase that is activated during gamete interaction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Physiology and endocrinology symposium: evidence that oviduct secretions influence sperm function: a retrospective view for livestock.	The mammalian oviduct has long been recognized as an organ essential for successful reproduction. Bovine, ovine, porcine, and equine animal models have offered clear advantages for oviduct study related to gamete physiology, fertilization, and early embryonic development. Livestock species are amenable to surgical alteration of the reproductive tract, estrous cycle manipulation, gamete cryopreservation, and AI, as well as in vitro fertilization and embryo production. Although most reproductive technology developed for livestock was intended to benefit production animal agriculture, these techniques are a treasure trove of tools for researchers to better understand how the oviduct influences gamete function. Oviduct secretions obtained from in vitro tissue cultures or via indwelling oviduct catheters have been used for analyses to define the protein, lipid, carbohydrate, enzyme, and electrolyte compositions of the secretions during the estrous cycle or in response to hormone treatment. Oviduct secretions or components purified from them have also been used in in vitro assays to assess their ability to bind to sperm, influence sperm viability, motility, sperm capacitation, the acrosome reaction, sperm-egg binding, and egg penetration, as well as subsequent embryonic development. Compelling data have emerged which show that the composition of secretions differs during the estrous cycle and that their composition differs whether they originate from the ampullary or isthmic regions of the oviduct. These differences in composition are functionally relevant and associated with different responses by sperm. Evidence indicatess that oviduct-specific glycoproteins, glycosaminoglycans, carbohydrates, norepinepherine, catecholamines, heat-shock protein, and osteopontin are components of the oviductal milieu that have the capacity to modulate sperm function. Future research on the livestock oviduct will likely define the role that oviduct secretions have in modulating sperm function and how these modifications ultimately affect fertilization and embryo development.
Use of zona pellucida-bound sperm for intracytoplasmic sperm injection produces higher embryo quality and implantation than conventional intracytoplasmic sperm injection.	This goal of this study was to compare the outcomes of conventional intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI; control group, n = 53 couples) and a modified ICSI technique using zona pellucida (ZP)-bound sperm for injection of oocytes (test group, n = 53 couples). The proportion of high-quality embryos (grades 1 and 2) and implantation rate were significantly higher in the test group than in the control group, but the difference in fetal heart pregnancy rate was not significant despite seven more pregnancies being obtained in the test group (26 pregnancies) versus the control group (19 pregnancies) following fresh embryo transfers.
Sperm motility-initiating substance in newt egg-jelly induces differential initiation of sperm motility based on sperm intracellular calcium levels.	Sperm motility-initiating substance (SMIS), a novel motility inducer from newt egg-jelly, is activated by the release from associated jelly substances at the beginning of internal fertilization and affects female-stored sperm. We examined motility initiation kinetics of newt sperm in response to SMIS by monitoring the changes of sperm intracellular calcium ([Ca(+)](i)). In quiescent non-motile sperm loaded with the Ca(+) indicator Fluo-4, intracellular free Ca(+) was observed around mitochondria using confocal scanning laser microscopy. A slight increase in [Ca(+)](i) occurred simultaneously and transiently at motility initiation in sperm treated with either heated jelly extract (hJE) containing activated SMIS, or a low osmotic solution, which naturally initiates motility in externally-fertilizing amphibians and can initiate motility in urodele sperm. When the increase of [Ca(+)](i) at motility-initiation was monitored using spectrofluorometry, large increases in [Ca(+)](i) occurred immediately in the low osmotic solution and within 1.5 min in the hJE. In the intact jelly extract (no heating), small increases of [Ca(+)](i) irregularly occurred from around 1 min and for about 4 min, during which motility was differentially initiated among sperm. These results indicate that the SMIS induces differential initiation of sperm motility depending on the activational states of the SMIS and its overall activity. The motility initiation in the jelly extract was delayed in sperm whose intracellular Ca(+) had been chelated with BAPTA-AM. The relative levels of [Ca(+)](i) were variable with a mean of 414  256 nmol/L among resting sperm, suggesting that the level of [Ca(+)](i) in the resting sperm modulates the responsiveness to the SMIS.
Interaction of sperm with the zona pellucida during fertilization.	In order to achieve fertilization sperm cells, first need to successfully interact with the zona pellucida. To this end, the sperm surface is extensively remodeled during capacitation and the resulting sperm cells also possess hyperactivated motility. Together, this serves to mediate optimal recognition of the zona pellucida in the oviduct or after in vitro fertilization incubations (primary zona pellucida binding). When the sperm cell attaches to the zona pellucida, it will be triggered to undergo the acrosome reaction which allows the hyperactivated motile sperm cell to drill through the zona pellucida (secondary zona pellucida binding coinciding with sequential local zona pellucida digestion and rebinding). After successful zona penetration, some sperm cells may enter the perivitelline space. This delaying strategy of the oocyte allows only one sperm cell at a given time to bind and fuse with the oocyte (fertilization) and thus minimizes the risk of polyspermy. The fertilization fusion between the oocyte and the first sperm cell is immediately followed by a polyspermic fertilization block, in which the content of the oocyte's cortical granules is released into the perivitelline space. The cortical reaction blocks further sperm-oocyte fusion either by sticking at the oolemma or by the induction of a biochemical reaction of the zona pellucida (zona pellucida hardening). The cortical reaction thus blocks sperm-zona pellucida binding and/or sperm-zona pellucida penetration. This review summarizes the current understanding of sperm-zona pellucida interactions in relation to mammalian fertilization. The lack of knowledge about sperm-zona pellucida binding in ruminants will be critically discussed.
Membrane transfer from oocyte to sperm occurs in two CD9-independent ways that do not supply the fertilising ability of Cd9-deleted oocytes.	Spermatozoa undergo regulation of their functions along their lifespan through exchanges via vesicles or interactions with epithelial cells, in the epididymis, in the seminal fluid and in the female genital tract. Two different ways of oocyte membrane transfer to spermatozoa have been described: trogocytosis and exosomes. We here report an analysis of in vitro exchanges between the membranes of unfertilised oocytes and capacitated spermatozoa. We showed that optimum conditions are fulfilled when unfertilised oocytes interact with acrosome-reacted spermatozoa, a scenario mimicking the events occurring when the fertilising spermatozoon is inside the perivitelline space. Although CD9 tetraspanin is an essential molecule for fertilisation, exosome and trogocytosis transfer persists in Cd9-null oocytes in spite of their dramatic fusion failure. These exchanges are CD9 tetraspanin independent. We also confirm that mice sperm express CD9 tetraspanin and that when Cd9-null oocytes were inseminated with sperm covered with oocyte membrane materials, including CD9 tetraspanin, no rescue of the oocytes' fertilisability could be obtained. Thus, the existence of two ways of exchange between gametes during fertilisation suggests that these events could be of a physiological importance in this process.
Human spermatozoa migration in microchannels reveals boundary-following navigation.	The migratory abilities of motile human spermatozoa in vivo are essential for natural fertility, but it remains a mystery what properties distinguish the tens of cells which find an egg from the millions of cells ejaculated. To reach the site of fertilization, sperm must traverse narrow and convoluted channels, filled with viscous fluids. To elucidate individual and group behaviors that may occur in the complex three-dimensional female tract environment, we examine the behavior of migrating sperm in assorted microchannel geometries. Cells rarely swim in the central part of the channel cross-section, instead traveling along the intersection of the channel walls ("channel corners"). When the channel turns sharply, cells leave the corner, continuing ahead until hitting the opposite wall of the channel, with a distribution of departure angles, the latter being modulated by fluid viscosity. If the channel bend is smooth, cells depart from the inner wall when the curvature radius is less than a threshold value close to 150m. Specific wall shapes are able to preferentially direct motile cells. As a consequence of swimming along the corners, the domain occupied by cells becomes essentially one-dimensional, leading to frequent collisions, and needs to be accounted for when modeling the behavior of populations of migratory cells and considering how sperm populate and navigate the female tract. The combined effect of viscosity and three-dimensional architecture should be accounted for in future in vitro studies of sperm chemoattraction.
Gamete fusion is required to block multiple pollen tubes from entering an Arabidopsis ovule.	In double fertilization, a reproductive system unique to flowering plants, two immotile sperm are delivered to an ovule by a pollen tube. One sperm fuses with the egg to generate a zygote, the other with the central cell to produce endosperm. A mechanism preventing multiple pollen tubes from entering an ovule would ensure that only two sperm are delivered to female gametes. We use live-cell imaging and a novel mixed-pollination assay that can detect multiple pollen tubes and multiple sets of sperm within a single ovule to show that Arabidopsis efficiently prevents multiple pollen tubes from entering an ovule. However, when gamete-fusion defective hap2(gcs1) or duo1 sperm are delivered to ovules, as many as three additional pollen tubes are attracted. When gamete fusion fails, one of two pollen tube-attracting synergid cells persists, enabling the ovule to attract more pollen tubes for successful fertilization. This mechanism prevents the delivery of more than one pair of sperm to an ovule, provides a means of salvaging fertilization in ovules that have received defective sperm, and ensures maximum reproductive success by distributing pollen tubes to all ovules.
The usefulness of combining traditional sperm assessments with in vitro heterospermic insemination to identify bulls of low fertility as estimated in vivo.	To date, no single in vitro assessment can estimate bull fertility. This research was aimed at evaluating the ability of a series of laboratory assessments to assign 50 Holstein Friesian bulls grouped as low (ER-NRR<-1.5), medium (-0.5<ER-NRR<+0.5) and high (ER-NRR+1.5) fertility based on estimated relative non-return rates (ER-NRR), to the two categories of low and medium-high fertility. Heterospermic insemination with a Piedmontese reference bull was employed to define an index of competitive binding ability (CBI) to the zona pellucida using fluorochrome-labeled sperm, and a competitive fertility index (CFI) using embryo paternal assignment by single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). Furthermore, kinetic parameters, membrane integrity and sperm DNA/chromatin integrity (% DFI) were assayed. Low fertility bulls had lesser (P<0.05) values for total motility and membrane integrity, and a greater value of % DFI as compared to medium and high fertility groups. A modest (P<0.001) correlation was reported among ER-NRR and total motility (r=0.30), progressive motility (r=0.26), membrane integrity (r=0.43) and % DFI (r=-0.26). While % DFI alone allowed the identification of 70% lowly fertile bulls, combining membrane integrity, average path velocity and CBI allowed for identification of 78% of the lowly fertile sires. Paternal assignment by SNPs resulted in 96% of successful assignments and could provide an alternative support to microsatellites for in vivo studies based on heterospermic fertilization for estimating fertility.
Plant fertilization: maximizing reproductive success.	Sperm competition does not occur in flowering plants as typically only a single pair of sperm cells is delivered for double fertilization. Two recent reports show that plants are capable of avoiding reproductive failure when defective sperm cells are released.
Identification of differentially expressed proteins between bull X and Y spermatozoa.	Differential expression of genes leads to variation in phenotypes of X and Y sperm, even though some differential gene products are shared through an intercellular bridge. Differentially expressed proteins between X and Y sperm sorted from semen of nine bulls were compared using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with mass spectrometry (MS) analysis. Overall, 66312 and 64722 protein spots were detected in X sperm and Y sperm, respectively, and 42 significant protein spots were differentially expressed between them (P<0.05). Sixteen of these protein spots were successfully identified by MS and tandem MS and were found to be closely relevant to energy metabolism, stress resistance, cytoskeletal structure and the activity of serine proteases. Expression levels of two of these proteins, CAPZB and UQCRC1, were verified by Western blot. We propose that these differentially expressed proteins may affect the phenotype of X and Y sperm, binding and fusion of sperm/oocyte and development of the zygotic embryo. Our preliminary results provide an overview of differential expression in total protein levels between X and Y spermatozoa. Identification of these altered proteins may provide a theoretical basis for understanding the biological differences between the two types of sperm.
Sperm cryopreservation of the Indian major carp, Labeo calbasu: effects of cryoprotectants, cooling rates and thawing rates on egg fertilization.	A sperm cryopreservation protocol for the Indian major carp, Labeo calbasu, was developed for long-term preservation and artificial fertilization. Milt collected from mature male fish were placed in Alsever's solution (296mOsmolkg(-1)) to immobilize the sperm. Cryoprotectant toxicity was evaluated by motility assessment with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and methanol at 5, 10 and 15% concentrations. DMSO was more toxic at higher concentrations than methanol, and consequently 15% DMSO was excluded from further study. A one-step cooling protocol (from 5 to 80C) with two cooling rates (5 and 10C/min) was carried out in a computer-controlled freezer (FREEZE CONTROL() CL-3300; Australia). Based on post-thaw motility, the 10C/min cooling rate with either 10% DMSO or 10% methanol yielded significantly higher (P=0.011) post-thaw motility than the other rate and cryoprotectant concentrations. Sperm thawed at 40C for 15s and fresh sperm were used to fertilize freshly collected L. calbasu eggs and significant differences were observed (P=0.001) in percent fertilization between cryopreserved and fresh sperm as well as among different sperm-to-egg ratios (P=0.001). The highest fertilization and hatching rates were observed for thawed sperm at a sperm-to-egg ratio of 4.110(5):1. The cryopreservation protocol developed can facilitate hatchery operations and long-term conservation of genetic resources of L. calbasu.
Role of nitric oxide in motility and fertilizing ability of sperm of Heteropneustes fossilis (Bloch.).	The presence of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), inducible NOS (iNOS) and nitric oxide (NO) in the testis of seasonally breeding catfish has previously been demonstrated. The present study was aimed to investigate the presence of NO in fish gametes and its role in sperm physiology and strengthen the previous findings. NO, a biological signalling molecule is synthesized during the conversion of l-arginine to l-citrulline by nitric oxide synthases (NOS) in the presence of NADPH and oxygen. In the present study, a considerable amount of NO content was detected in the fresh sperm suspension of fish. A drastic reduction in NO content of the sperm suspension was observed after cryopreservation. Ovarian fluid collected from freshly stripped eggs also contained a substantial amount of NO. Further, effects of a NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and NOS inhibitor, N-(G)-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (l-NAME) were evaluated on motility and fertilizing ability of fresh and cryopreserved sperm. The percentage of motile fresh sperm (66.23.7%) was enhanced (P<0.05) by SNP at the dose of 10(-3)M, whereas the greater and lesser concentrations of SNP did not influence the percentage of motility as compared to the control. However, a significant reduction in the percentage of motile fresh sperm was observed at the tested doses of 10(-3)M and 10(-4)M of l-NAME. The maximum reduction (23.03.4%) was evoked at the greatest concentration (10(-3)M); while at the smallest dose of 10(-5)M, reduction was insignificant. Ovarian fluid also enhanced sperm motility. Altogether, findings of the present study suggest that NO plays an important role in sperm performance of fish. 
Intracytoplasmic versus subzonal spermatozoa injection. A comparison of 2 different methods of micro-assisted fertilization]	In order to define the usefulness of subzonal sperm insertion (SUZI) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), we studied in a comparative trial 46 consecutive treatment cycles of microassisted fertilisation by SUZI and ICSI. By ICSI 9% of the oocytes in metaphase II were damaged in 26 treatment cycles, by SUZI, however, not one single egg in 20 cycles (p < 0.001). Fertilisation rate after ICSI (65%) was, particularly in cases with combined sperm defects as well, significantly higher than after SUZI (35%; p < 0.001). Additionally, after ICSI a higher transfer (100% vs. 75%; p < 0.05) and pregnancy rate could be obtained (38% vs. 10% per cycle; p < or = 0.05). At the moment, 3 healthy children are born (2 after SUZI, 1 after ICSI), 4 patients are in the 2nd and 3rd trimenon, respectively, the remaining 5 patients aborted. In conclusion, the ICSI technique yields better results than SUZI, especially in cases of very severe male subfertility.
Beakers versus breakers: how fertilisation in the laboratory differs from fertilisation in nature.	The fertilisation of free-spawning invertebrates, mainly sea urchins, has been studied extensively during the last hundred years. However, results obtained from in vitro experiments do not always reflect what happens in the real world. Organisms in their natural habitats have a complex set of challenges, cues and behaviours to contend with during fertilisation and early development, factors that are normally not considered in the laboratory setting. This review examines recent work on fertilisation ecology and discusses the relevance of these results to the findings gleaned from laboratory research. Emphasis is placed on stresses associated with fertilisation in situ, and how responses to environmental stresses (such as from turbulence, oxidative stress, ultraviolet radiation and pathogens) might affect the fertilisation process.
Involvement of N-linked carbohydrate chains of pig zona pellucida in sperm-egg binding.	The sperm receptor activity of pig zona pellucida has been previously shown to exist in one of the components, pig zona protein 3 alpha (PZP3 alpha), that can be purified after the removal of sialylated and/or sulfated N-acetylpoly(lactosamine) by digestion with endo-beta-galactosidase. In this study, we examined whether N-linked or O-linked carbohydrate chains are involved in the sperm receptor activity of pig zona pellucida. The elimination of N-linked carbohydrate chains from endo-beta-galactosidase-digested PZP3 alpha by digestion with N-glycanase markedly reduced its inhibitory effect on sperm-egg binding in an in vitro competition assay, whereas the elimination of O-linked carbohydrate chains by alkali treatment hardly reduced the inhibitory effect. These results indicate that N-linked carbohydrate chains of PZP3 alpha play a major role in mediating the sperm binding of zona pellucida in pig.
A retrospective analysis of unfertilized and presumed parthenogentically activated human oocytes demonstrates a high frequency of sperm penetration.	A total of 518 normal-appearing, meiotically mature human oocytes that were judged unfertilized after insemination in vitro were examined for sperm penetration by conventional fluorescence and laser scanning confocal microscopy with DNA-specific probes. A similar analysis was performed on 29 single pronuclear oocytes that were presumed to originate by spontaneous (parthenogenetic) activation. The results demonstrate that 22% of the unfertilized oocytes and 52% of the presumed parthenogenetic oocytes were actually penetrated. Sperm penetration occurred in both normozoospermic and male factor cases. The findings indicate the importance of penetration analysis in determining the causes of fertilization failure that may reside with the male or female gamete, especially when assessing the utility of and necessity for assisted fertilization in subsequent attempts. The results also suggest that the cytoplasmic capacity to decondense sperm DNA may decline more rapidly than the ability of the oocyte to be penetrated and to mount an effective block to polyspermy.
How does sperm meet egg?--in a marsupial.	Australian marsupials exhibit a wide range of variation in sperm head morphology, and in thickness of the zona pellucida around the oocyte, suggesting interspecfic differences in the processes of sperm-egg interaction. The observations described here are largely based on the dasyurid Sminthopsis crassicaudata. They show that in oestrous females, after mating, a coagulum forms in the lateral vaginae and, within an hour of insemination, numerous spermatozoa congregate in the isthmus of the oviduct in which the vanguard population undergoes transformation with the head rotating on its axis with the tail to form a T-shape. Once oocytes are released, a few spermatozoa migrate to the higher reaches of the oviduct where sperm-zona binding occurs by way of the plasmalemma over the acrosomal region. The acrosome reaction takes place here and, as the egg rotates, the tail of the spermatozoon becomes parallel to the head. A small region of acrosome sometimes appears to remain intact at this time because spermatozoa with partly intact acrosomes have been found within the zona matrix. In some of these, electron-dense bridges between part of the inner and outer acrosomal membranes which may act as stabilizing structures, were also seen. The zona matrix is tightly packed around the penetrating spermatozoon, but that close to the acrosomal region becomes less electron-dense and more filamentous. Once incorporated into the egg, the spermatozoon lacks a cell membrane around the tail but vesicles close to the sperm head may, at least in part, be remnants of an inner acrosomal membrane. How generally applicable these observations are to other Australian marsupials remains to be determined.
Anti-ZP3 antibodies binding to the human zona pellucida: effect of oocyte-storage conditions.	The zona pellucida protein 3 (ZP3) is a zona pellucida (ZP) glycoprotein crucially involved in fertilization. ZP3 plays a major role in sperm binding and induction of the acrosome reaction. In different species, ZP3 proteins differ in their primary structure as derived from cDNA clones. The hemizona assay (HZA) is a bioassay that evaluates binding of human sperm to human ZP and is highly predictive of fertilization outcome under in vitro conditions.
Regulation of intracellular calcium in the mouse egg: calcium release in response to sperm or inositol trisphosphate is enhanced after meiotic maturation.	Fertilization of the immature, prophase I-arrested mouse oocyte produces multiple Ca2+ transients similar to those of the mature, metaphase II egg; however, the first Ca2+ transient is much lower in amplitude and shorter in duration. In contrast to prophase I-arrested oocytes, maturing oocytes fertilized after germinal vesicle breakdown have first Ca2+ transients similar to those of mature fertilized eggs. Immature, prophase-arrested oocytes release less Ca2+ in response to injection of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) than eggs. At high concentrations, the sulfhydryl reagent, thimerosal (200 microM), causes Ca2+ oscillations in eggs and produces similar oscillations in oocytes. A lower concentration of thimerosal (25 microM) does not cause Ca2+ oscillations, but does sensitize IP3-induced Ca2+ release in both eggs and oocytes, since IP3-induced Ca2+ release is enhanced in the presence of 25 microM thimerosal. Incubation of oocytes in 25 microM thimerosal before injection of 2.2 microM IP3 causes oocytes to release as much Ca2+ as is released in eggs injected with 2.2 microM IP3. These results indicate that immature mouse oocytes possess intracellular stores of releasable Ca2+ similar in size to Ca2+ stores in eggs; however, these stores are less sensitive to IP3. Development of the IP3-induced Ca2+ release mechanism may be an important component of maturation; at fertilization of the egg, Ca2+ must be elevated to levels sufficient to activate further development and establish a block to polyspermy. Mouse oocytes appear to develop an increased sensitivity to IP3 during the course of oocyte maturation.
Role of zinc during hamster sperm capacitation.	Zinc stabilizes somatic cell membranes and DNA, inhibits respiration, is present in high concentrations in the male reproductive tract, and may stabilize sperm during storage and ejaculation. Zinc removal from sperm may be necessary to prepare sperm for fertilization (capacitation). Incubation with Zn2+ chelators, e.g., D-penicillamine, can capacitate hamster sperm (Andrews and Bavister, Gamete Res 1989; 23:159-70). In the present study, the Zn(2+)-specific fluorochrome N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-toluenesulfonamide (TSQ) and the vital stain propidium iodide were used to assess the zinc content of live hamster sperm with flow cytometry before and after capacitation. Capacitation was monitored with a salt-stored zona pellucida penetration assay or the occurrence of spontaneous or induced (with lysophosphatidylcholine) acrosome reactions. The effect of added zinc on sperm capacitation was also evaluated. Image Analysis was used to determine the subcellular location of zinc (TSQ fluorescence) and atomic absorption to determine whether the total zinc content of sperm changes during capacitation. Sperm incubated under non-capacitating conditions had high TSQ fluorescence and could not penetrate zonae pellucidae. Sperm incubated under capacitating conditions (plus BSA or D-penicillamine) were zinc-depleted (low fluorescence) and penetrated 90% or 78% of zonae, respectively. Image analysis showed a significant reduction in zinc in the acrosomal region during capacitation with BSA, but this did not correlate with the occurrence of spontaneous acrosome reactions. The atomic absorption data showed that the total zinc content of sperm was reduced by 44% or 40% when sperm were incubated under capacitating conditions (BSA or D-penicillamine, respectively). Zona pellucida penetration was completely inhibited when zinc was present throughout the capacitation period but not when it was added at the end of incubation. These data indicate that removal of zinc from hamster sperm is correlated with capacitation and may play a key regulatory role in this process.
Activation currents, sperm entry and surface contractions in ascidian eggs.	Spermatozoa from the mollusc Ostrea edulis are capable of fusing to and entering de-chorionated ascidian eggs. During interaction they generate activation currents, comparable to the fertilisation currents induced by homologous spermatozoa. Activation currents are inward at -80 mV, with a mean initial slope of 111 +/- 124 pA/s for Ciona intestinalis eggs and 47 +/- 25 pA/s for Phallusia mammillata eggs, while the mean peak currents are 2782 +/- 1132 pA and 1523 +/- 1668 pA, respectively. The fertilisation and activation currents reverse at a holding potential of 0 mV to + 20 mV, suggesting that oyster sperm and ascidian sperm gate the same channel precursor, a non-specific, large conductance channel described previously (Dale & DeFelice, 1984). In contrast to homologous fertilisation, the activation current is not followed by a polarised contraction of the egg surface, nor other signs of egg activation. Staining eggs with Hoechst 33342 after insemination shows the female nucleus and a single oyster sperm nucleus at the antipode. This suggests a specialised predetermined site at the vegetal pole for sperm entry. Homologous and heterologous spermatozoa delivered, in a large pipette, to localised areas of the egg surface generate fast inward currents of 200-2000 pA, but do not induce contraction of the egg surface. This shows that although channel precursors are located globally over the egg surface, channel activation does not necessarily trigger the contraction wave. Subsequent induction of both a fertilisation current and a contraction by homologous sperm added to the bath, implies a regionalised activation site with an accumulation of channel precursors and a 'pacemaker' for the initiation of the contraction wave.
Environment and medium volume influence in vitro fertilisation of pig oocytes.	Oviductal oocytes (n = 795) were obtained from ovulation-induced prepubertal gilts. In the first experiment, different parameters related to in vitro fertilisation (IVF) were compared in the presence and absence of cumulus matrix (which is shed with the oocytes at ovulation). The results show that the presence of this matrix is beneficial because the rates of fertilisation (69%) and monospermy (number of monospermic oocytes/total number of healthy mature oocytes; 42%), and the median number of spermatozoa per oocyte (1.52 +/- 0.06), were improved with respect to those obtained in its absence (54%, 22% and 2.33 +/- 0.08, respectively; p < 0.01). In the second experiment the effect of two different volumes of co-incubation medium (2 ml and 0.4 ml) on the same parameters of porcine IVF were compared. No significant differences between volumes were observed, except in the mean number of spermatozoa per oocyte and the percentage of dispermic oocytes.
Sperm penetration in parthenogenetic mouse embryos triggers a plasma membrane block to polyspermy.	Mouse oocytes activated parthenogenetically do not generate a plasma membrane block against spermatozoa over the first three cell cycles. We show that they lose this fusibility spontaneously at the 8-cell stage. Insemination of 1-cell parthenogenetic embryos induces loss of fusibility earlier, at the 2-cell stage. This observation suggests that incorporation of the sperm cell membrane components into the oolemma may be responsible for the development of the membrane block.
Moderate heat treatment increases the penetrability of zonae pellucidae of salt-stored mammalian oocytes by spermatozoa.	The zona pellucida of mammalian oocytes stored in highly concentrated solutions of neutral salts is known to retain its biological and biochemical properties. However, the zona may become resistant to sperm penetration as the storage period is increased. In cattle and hamsters, the penetrability of zonae of salt-stored oocytes was restored or increased by treating the oocytes with moderate heat without altering the gross morphology of the zona. Although this technique did not work for salt-stored human ova, this may have been due to the use of so-called inseminated-unfertilised ova which (1) may have been fertilised but failed to activate, or (2) were not fertilised because of functionally defective zonae.
A relationship between sperm count and intracellular progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, and cortisol concentrations in human spermatozoa.	In an attempt to determine whether human spermatozoa contain steroid hormones, in this study we have measured the immunoreactive levels of P, 17 alpha-OHP, and F in the extracts of sonicated specimens of sperms obtained as ejaculates from husbands of infertile couples. The results of this study demonstrate for the first time that human spermatozoa contain definite amounts of the measured steroids and suggests an association between steroid levels and sperm count. These steroids identified intracellularly in the haploid germ cells may play a role in the molecular events associated with fertilization.
Relationship between sperm nucleus remodelling and cell cycle progression of fragments of mouse parthenogenotes.	Nucleate and anucleate fragments of parthenogenetically activated mouse oocytes, as well as cybrids obtained by fusion of anucleate fragments (cytoplasts) of maturing and activated matured oocytes were fertilized at different time after activation. Remodelling of the sperm nucleus was studied by electron microscopy at 1.5 and 3 h after fertilization and, in addition, at 14 h in cybrids. Results show that 1) the nuclear envelope of the sperm nucleus can break down when the insemination takes place after the end of M-phase, but the capacity of the parthenote cytoplasm to remodel the sperm nucleus is restricted in time. 2) Male chromatin can decondense within the old, unbroken nuclear envelope, but in such cases formation of a male pronucleus, one of the two nuclei of zygote possessing inactive nucleoli, is never observed.
Immunolocalization of proacrosin/acrosin in rabbit sperm during acrosome reaction and in spermatozoa recovered from the perivitelline space.	The participation of acrosin in mammalian sperm penetration through the zona pellucida has been amply debated. In this paper we report the immunolocalization--by silver enhanced immunogold technique using ACRO-8C10 monoclonal antibody to human acrosin--of proacrosin/acrosin on ejaculated rabbit spermatozoa incubated in vitro in a capacitating medium and on spermatozoa recovered from the perivitelline space. After incubation in a capacitating medium, four different patterns were observed: (1) no labeling on acrosome intact spermatozoa; (2) labeling on the rim of the head; (3) labeling on the whole acrosome area; and (4) no labeling on acrosome reacted spermatozoa. At the start of incubation, spermatozoa with pattern 1 were the most abundant, whereas at the end of the 32 h incubation period, patterns 2 and 3 were the most frequent. On the other hand, 625 perivitelline spermatozoa were recovered from 17 fertilized rabbit eggs, of which 26% were labeled with the antiacrosin monoclonal antibody ACRO-8C10 in two different areas: (1) only on the equatorial region; and (2) only on the postacrosomal area. These results are consistent with the idea that proacrosin/acrosin remains associated to the acrosome reacted spermatozoa for long periods of time, and that proacrosin/acrosin associated to perivitelline spermatozoa could be responsible for the second penetration of fresh rabbit eggs by perivitelline spermatozoa.
The relationship between morphology, motility and zona pellucida binding potential of human spermatozoa.	Prediction of the fertilizing potential of human gametes under in vitro conditions has been a major field of interest of assisted reproductive programmes. However, sperm morphology has been regarded as a predictor of human in vitro fertilization rate. This paper prospectively evaluates the relationships among normal sperm morphology and (1) motion characteristics viz. curvilinear velocity (VCL), straight line velocity (VSL), and linearity (LIN) (n = 37) and (2) sperm-zona pellucida binding capacity under HZA conditions (n = 144) of two separate groups of infertile couples. Semen was evaluated for sperm concentration, percentage motility, forward progression, and percentage normal morphology (strict criteria). The motility characteristics were measured using a computerized Sperm Motility Quantifier (SMQ). The zona binding potential of sperm was evaluated using the hemizona assay. Firstly, the VCL significantly differed between the P-pattern and both the G (72.9 +/- 7 vs. 86.3 +/- 16 microns s-1; P = 0.04) and N patterns (72.9 +/- 7 vs. 91.0 +/- 15 microns s-1; P = 0.002). The VSL differed only between the P and N patterns, being 19.7 +/- 7 vs. 32.6 +/- 15 microns s-1 (P = 0.02), respectively. No significant differences in LIN were noted between any of the three patterns. The sperm concentration differed significantly between the P and both the G (37.9 +/- 35 vs. 80.8 +/- 9 x 10(6) ml-1; P = 0.03) and the N patterns (37.9 +/- 35 vs. 89.7 +/- 72 x 10(6) ml-1; P = 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of follicular fluid at fertilization in vitro on sperm penetration in pig oocytes.	The effects of porcine follicular fluid (PFF) on sperm penetration of pig oocytes and on prevention of polyspermy were examined and characteristics of spermatozoa exposed to PFF were determined. The addition of PFF at the level of 1 and 10% to the prefertilization and fertilization media decreased penetration rates and the mean number of spermatozoa in penetrated eggs regardless of the origin of PFF. In the presence of BSA, supplementation of 0.1% PFF to prefertilization and fertilization media and 1% PFF to prefertilization media did not decrease the penetration rates but did increase monospermic penetration to 54 and 68%, respectively. When PFF was added to prefertilization media, the number of spermatozoa binding to the zona and the percentage of acrosome-intact spermatozoa decreased with increased PFF concentration (from 43.1 +/- 2.8 and 73.1 +/- 4.9% to 7.2 +/- 1.3 and 15.7 +/- 15.4%, respectively). At the end of prefertilization incubation, sperm agglutination was observed and the degree depended on PFF concentration. Supplementation of fetal calf serum to prefertilization and fertilization media blocked the effects of PFF on sperm penetration and binding of spermatozoa to the zona. These results indicate that the prefertilization incubation of porcine spermatozoa in suitable concentrations of porcine follicular fluid will effectively reduce both the number of spermatozoa that attach to the surface of pig eggs and the incidence of polyspermy.
Effects of electrical stimulation before or after in vitro fertilization on sperm penetration and pronuclear formation of pig oocytes.	The effects of exposure of pig oocytes to an electrical pulse-on sperm penetration and pronuclear formation were determined before or after in vitro fertilization (IVF). After in vitro maturation (IVM) or after collection from oviducts of unmated gilts, pig oocytes either were not exposed or were exposed to an electrical pulse (a 10 sec pulse at 4.0 Vmm-1 AC followed by a 30 microseconds pulse at 120 V mm-1 DC), followed 30 min later by IVF. The incidence of male pronuclear formation of both IVM and in vivo-matured oocytes at 12 hr after insemination was decreased from 59% and 100%, respectively, to 2% and 36%, respectively, by the electrical pulse, but the penetration rates (88-100%) and polyspermic rates (79-100%) were not affected by exposure to an electrical pulse. Similarly, when pig IVM oocytes were exposed to an electrical pulse at 6 hr after insemination, electrical activation did not decrease penetration rates (93% vs. 90%), polyspermic rates (83% vs. 91%), or number of spermatozoa in penetrated oocytes (4.0 +/- 0.5 vs. 4.6 +/- 0.5) but did decrease the rate of male pronuclear formation from 58% to 18%. When oocytes were examined at 6 hr after insemination, 75% of them had been penetrated and resumed meiotic progression, but all sperm heads in penetrated oocytes were fully condensed or only partially decondensed. The percentage of penetrated eggs with multiple female pronuclei was increased when oocytes were exposed to an electrical pulse in all experimental series.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Oxidative stress during the interaction of gametes.	Oxidative stress, commonly defined as a disturbance in the prooxidant and antioxidant levels, may be causatively involved in the etiology of defective sperm function. To mimic the physiological situation, in this study xenogeneic activators of the oxidative burst of sperm were excluded. In addition, transition metal-driven production of reactive oxygen species was avoided by chelation of Fenton catalysts. On average, 28 +/- 4 U of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and 375 +/- 105 mumol/L of sulfhydryls were found in normozoospermic ejaculates from 10 healthy men. The in vitro inhibition of superoxide dismutase by diethyldithiocarbamate caused the rapid oxidation of seminal plasma sulfhydryls, suggesting a pivotal role for SOD in maintaining the antioxidant defense system and protecting against oxidant-induced injury. The production of superoxide by hamster sperm as well as hamster oocytes was examined by lucigenin-mediated chemiluminescence both prior to and following the addition of sperm to oocytes for in vitro fertilization. During fusion, the generation of superoxide from both sperm and oocytes was markedly suppressed. This inhibition was partially due to the superoxide dismutase released during gamete interactions.
Assessment of human sperm functional changes after in-vitro coincubation with cells retrieved from the human female reproductive tract.	Human spermatozoa must undergo functional changes prior to fertilization; however, the site of this physiological event is still unclear. To evaluate the influence of the female reproductive tract on sperm fertilizing capacity, fertile sperm samples were coincubated with endometrial, oviductal, granulosa and cumulus cells, follicular fluid and maternal serum. Sperm penetration into the zona-free hamster ova and motion parameters were measured daily for 72 h. Compared to control samples, endometrial and oviductal cell cultures did not alter sperm fertilizing capacity or their movement characteristics. Sperm coincubated with follicular fluid, granulosa or cumulus cells exhibited a significantly higher ability to penetrate zona-free hamster ova for up to 48 h. Sperm motility increased at 4 h in the presence of follicular fluid and serum. At 24 h sperm velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement significantly declined in sperm samples exposed to serum, and velocity also declined in follicular fluid and with coincubation using ovarian follicle cells. Sperm motility and velocity decreased at 48 h in the presence of serum, follicular fluid, cumulus or granulosa cells. Our findings may suggest that specific secretory factors produced in the human pre-ovulatory ovarian follicle enhance human sperm fertilizing capacity.
Evidence for a cannabinoid receptor in sea urchin sperm and its role in blockade of the acrosome reaction.	Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol ((-)delta 9 THC), the primary psychoactive cannabinoid in marihuana, reduces the fertilizing capacity of sea urchin sperm by blocking the acrosome reaction that normally is stimulated by a specific ligand in the egg's jelly coat. The bicyclic synthetic cannabinoid [3H]CP-55,940 has been used as a ligand to demonstrate the presence of a cannabinoid receptor in mammalian brain. We now report that [3H]CP-55,940 binds to live sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus purpuratus) sperm in a concentration, sperm density, and time-dependent manner. Specific binding of [3H]CP-55,940 to sperm, defined as total binding displaced by (-)delta 9THC, was saturable: KD 5.16 +/- 1.02 nM; Hill coefficient 0.98 +/- 0.004. This suggests a single class of receptor sites and the absence of significant cooperative interactions. Sea urchin sperm contain 712 +/- 122 cannabinoid receptors per cell. Binding of [3H]CP-55,940 to sperm was reduced in a dose-dependent manner by increasing concentrations of CP-55,940, (-)delta 9THC, and (+)delta 9THC. The rank order of potency to inhibit binding of [3H]CP-55,940 to sperm and to block the egg jelly stimulated acrosome reaction was: CP-55,940 > (-)delta 9THC > (+)delta 9THC. These findings show that sea urchin sperm contain a stereospecific cannabinoid receptor that may play a role in inhibition of the acrosome reaction. The radioligand binding data obtained with live sea urchin sperm are remarkably similar to those previously published by other investigators using [3H]CP-55,940 on mammalian brain and nonneural tissues. The cannabinoid binding properties of this receptor appear to have been highly conserved during evolution. We postulate that the cannabinoid receptor may modulate cellular responses to stimulation.
Evolution of the sperm aster after microinjection of isolated human sperm centrosomes into meiotically mature human oocytes.	This study examined the feasibility of isolating and transferring the centrosome-containing region of spermatozoa to mature human oocytes. The findings demonstrate that individual sperm centrosomes can be transferred and are capable of nucleating maternal tubulin to form a well-developed sperm aster in the recipient oocyte. The results are discussed with respect to centrosome function in early human development and applications in clinical in-vitro fertilization in the treatment of certain forms of male factor infertility.
Mini-swim-up: a new technique of sperm preparation for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.	The male factor is nowadays one of the major problems in the treatment of infertility. New methods of assisted fertilization such as the intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) show better fertilization and pregnancy rates than classical IVF.
Successful pregnancy after intracytoplasmic injection of a single testicular spermatozoon into a human oocyte: a case report.	Testicular sperm was retrieved from a man with an epididymal obstruction, and an intracytoplasmic sperm injection was made into his wife's oocytes. In 4 mature oocytes treated, 2 fertilized eggs were obtained, and a clinical pregnancy was established with embryo transfers. Our experience demonstrated the possibility of fertilization and conception with testicular sperm.
Defining bioassay conditions to evaluate sperm/zona interaction: inhibition of zona binding mediated by solubilized human zona pellucida.	Our goal was to study the influence of solubilized human zonae pellucidae on zona binding potential and acrosome reaction.
Characterization of the sperm-induced calcium wave in Xenopus eggs using confocal microscopy.	We have used confocal microscopy to examine the [Ca2+]i increase in the albino eggs of the frog Xenopus laevis after fertilization. Eggs were placed in agar wells with their animal poles downward so that fertilization occurred preferentially in the equatorial plane, and confocal microscopy was used to provide a two-dimensional optical section through the three-dimensional Ca2+ wave. These data indicate that the wave of increased [Ca2+]i traverses the entire egg and converges uniformly on the antipode. We show that ratioing two different fluorescent dyes to correct for variations in cell thickness is not a reliable technique for this very thick cell due to differential absorption with depth. Indo-1-dextran proves to be a more reliable Ca2+ indicator in this respect. Indo-1-dextran measurements indicate that the resting [Ca2+]i is not uniform throughout the egg but exhibits a 15% higher [Ca2+]i in the cortex than deep in the cytoplasm. This difference is accentuated during wave propagation and is not dependent on extracellular Ca2+. The average peak [Ca2+]i in the center of the egg as the wave propagates through it is 0.7 microM, approximately 60% of the peak cortical [Ca2+]i. The wave velocity through the center of the egg (5.7 micron/s) is slower than that in the cortex (8.9 micron/s), and both velocities vary slightly during transit. The cortical wave speed is particularly high at the beginning (15.7 micron/s) and end (17.2 micron/s) of the wave. Eggs injected with 30-80 microM of 3 kD heparin to compete with inositol-1,4,5,-trisphosphate for binding to its receptor exhibited multiple localized spots of elevated [Ca2+]i, and many of these did not initiate a wave. For those that did lead to a wave, it was usually slow moving and exhibited a reduced (60% reduction) amplitude compared with controls.
Rat oocytes fertilized in modified rat 1-cell embryo culture medium containing a high sodium chloride concentration and bovine serum albumin maintain developmental ability to the blastocyst stage.	A suitable chemically defined culture medium for 1-cell rat embryos (mR1ECM) was modified to obtain sperm penetration, and the developmental competence of oocytes fertilized in the medium was compared to that of oocytes fertilized in a traditional medium, modified Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate medium (mKRB). Sperm penetration was not observed when polyvinyl alcohol was replaced with BSA in mR1ECM (mR1ECM-BSA); the incidence was improved only when the osmolarity in mR1ECM-BSA was increased to that in mKRB (310 mOsm) by addition of NaCl. The proportion of oocytes penetrated in mR1ECM-BSA with NaCl increased (71.6 +/- 6.9%), which was not different compared to that in mKRB (76.7 +/- 13.7%). High incidences of sperm penetration (88.8 +/- 4.1% to 93.1 +/- 5.1%) were also observed when NaCl concentration in mR1ECM-BSA was increased from 76.7 mM to 100-130 mM. The incidence of embryos developing to the morula and blastocyst stages was higher when fertilized in mR1ECM-BSA containing 110-130 mM NaCl (91-94%) than in mKRB (70%). A total of 5 offspring were obtained after transfer of the morulae and blastocysts (69 embryos/7 females). These results demonstrate that a high developmental ability of rat embryos to the blastocyst stage is attained when the embryos have been fertilized in mR1ECM-BSA containing 110-130 mM NaCl and then cultured in mR1ECM.
Glycodelins: role in regulation of reproduction, potential for contraceptive development and diagnosis of male infertility.	Glycodelins are glycoproteins synthesized in various glands, with sequence homology to beta-lactoglobulins, and named according to their unique oligosaccharide structures. We purified, cloned and sequenced endometrium- and seminal plasma-derived glycodelins (GdA and GdS respectively) and found that they are involved in various types of cell-cell communications. These include interactions between the spermatozoon and the egg, and between immune cells and their targets. Endometrial GdA inhibits sperm-egg binding, whereas the differently glycosylated GdS in seminal plasma does not. These observation are of interest for reproductive physiology, detection of causes of infertility, and they also may have potential for contraceptive development.
Voltage-dependent activation of frog eggs by a sperm surface disintegrin peptide.	Fertilin, a sperm protein of the metalloprotease/disintegrin/cysteine-rich (MDC) family, plays a critical role in sperm-egg binding in mammals. Peptides corresponding to the disintegrin domain of fertilin and antibodies against fertilin have been shown to inhibit mammalian sperm-egg binding and fusion. A protein from the same family, xMDC16, was recently cloned from frog (Xenopus laevis) testis and was found to be involved in frog sperm-egg binding. Here we report that xMDC16 is localized predominantly on the posterior surface of egg jelly-activated sperm, and peptides from the disintegrin domain of this protein activate eggs when applied near the egg surface. Egg activation was dependent on (1) specific amino acid residues (KTX); (2) the presence of divalent cations, but not external Ca2+ alone; and (3) voltage across the egg plasma membrane. This is the first demonstration of egg activation in vertebrates by the surface application of a peptide derived from a sperm surface protein, supporting a model for egg activation that involves a signal transducing receptor for sperm in the egg's plasma membrane.
Sperm plasma membrane receptors for the porcine oocyte plasma membrane.	In vitro fertilisation (IVF) was used to assess the ability of solubilised sperm plasma membrane (PM) proteins to inhibit the interaction of intact gametes. This is a first step before evaluating the ability of individual isolated proteins to competitively inhibit sperm-oocyte interaction as part of the process of studying the molecular events of fertilisation. Porcine oocytes were aspirated from ovaries, matured for 48 h in Medium 199, and the zona pellucida (ZP) was removed by exposure to acid Tyrode's solution. ZP-free matured oocytes were exposed to 200-800 micrograms/ml sperm PM protein for 1 h prior to insemination and during gamete co-incubation. Twenty-four hours after insemination with 5 x 10(5) capacitated sperm/ml, the oocytes were fixed, stained and examined. Sperm PM protein clearly inhibited IVF in a concentration-dependent manner (r = -0.87). The inhibition index (I50%), representing the sperm PM protein concentration necessary to inhibit IVF to 50% of the control value, was 310 micrograms/ml. These results demonstrate that solubilised sperm PM protein inhibits the interaction of intact gametes as one might expect for receptor-ligand interactions. Furthermore, the complement of sperm PM proteins appeared maximally effective at a calculated concentration of 690 microns/ml, providing a foundation for further studies with individual proteins.
