Compartmentalisation of the sperm plasma membrane: a FRAP, FLIP and SPFI analysis of putative diffusion barriers on the sperm head.	Spermatozoa are highly polarised cells with a compartmentalised distribution of lipids and proteins in their plasma membrane. It is not known how these compartments are stably maintained in what is essentially a fluid environment. In this investigation we have examined the hypothesis that intramembranous diffusion barriers selectively retain some components within compartments, while allowing free passage of others. A fluorescence loss in photobleaching analysis of the behaviour of the lipid reporter probe 1,1'-dihexadecyl-3,3,3'3'-tetramethyindocarbocyanine (DiIC16) on the head of boar spermatozoa revealed that it was freely diffusing between all three compartments (anterior acrosome, equatorial segment and postacrosome). Spermatozoa also contained rapidly diffusing particles of DiIC16 over the anterior acrosome and equatorial segment. These particles, approximately 200 nm in diameter, were tracked in real time and their trajectories analysed by mean square displacement. Particle diffusion was essentially random over the anterior acrosome and equatorial segment but showed a periodicity in jump sizes and diffusion coefficients suggestive of microheterogeneities. Particles did not exchange between the equatorial segment and postacrosome, indicating a barrier at the junction between these two compartments. No barrier was detected between the equatorial segment and anterior acrosome. A model is proposed in which a molecular 'filter' is present at the equatorial segment-postacrosomal boundary that allows free passage of single molecules but not molecular complexes. Passage of heterogeneous complexes, such as lipid rafts, requires disassembly and reassembly on either side of the filter.
Interactions of human sperm acrosomal protein SP-10 with the acrosomal membranes.	The interaction of the human acrosomal protein SP-10 with the acrosomal membranes was analyzed by the ability of Triton X-114 (TX-114) and other agents to release SP-10 from the acrosome. Treatment of human sperm with TX-114 revealed a pool of SP-10 that was released by TX-114 and a pool of SP-10 that was TX-114-resistant. TX-114-resistant SP-10 was associated with the equatorial segment and with TX-114-resistant portions of the acrosomal matrix and the inner acrosomal membrane. Phase partitioning of TX-114-released and TX-114-resistant SP-10 pools showed that both were hydrophilic, indicating that these pools consist of proteins that are peripherally associated with, rather than integral to, the acrosomal membranes. Sequential treatments of human sperm with various agents showed that repeated washes with TX-114 or 1.5 M NaCl had little or no effect on TX-114-resistant SP-10, whereas treatment with a chaotropic salt (150 mM sodium thiocyanate) and buffers at pH extremes (pH 2.0 and 10.0) completely released this pool of SP-10 from the acrosome. Together the results suggest that SP-10 is a hydrophilic peripheral acrosomal membrane protein that may be associated with a TX-114-resistant "anchor."
New insights into sperm-zona pellucida interaction: involvement of sperm lipid rafts.	Sperm-zona pellucida (ZP) binding is the first step of gamete interaction. This binding occurs in two sequential steps, starting with the primary binding of acrosome-intact sperm to the ZP followed by the secondary ZP binding of acrosome reacting/reacted sperm. While there are only a few ZP sulfoglycoproteins involved in these binding events, a large number of sperm surface molecules have been shown to possess ZP affinity. In this review, we have given explanations to the existence of these many ZP binding molecules. We have also summarized their origin and the mechanisms of how they are targeted to the sperm surface and acrosome. Recently, we have shown that sperm lipid rafts have affinity for the ZP. A number of ZP binding molecules are also present in sperm lipid rafts. In this review, we have provided an argument that sperm lipid rafts may be the platforms on the sperm surface for ZP interaction.
Exposure of male rats to cyclophosphamide alters the chromatin structure and basic proteome in spermatozoa.	The formation of mature sperm involves the expression of numerous proteins during spermiogenesis and the replacement of histones with protamines to package the genome. Exposure to cyclophosphamide (CPA), an anticancer alkylating agent, during spermiogenesis may disrupt chromatin condensation with adverse consequences to the offspring.
Cyclin E/Cdk2 is required for sperm maturation, but not DNA replication, in early sea urchin embryos.	The cell cycle is driven by the activity of cyclin/cdk complexes. In somatic cells, cyclin E/cdk2 oscillates throughout the cell cycle and has been shown to promote S-phase entry and initiation of DNA replication. In contrast, cyclin E/cdk2 activity remains constant throughout the early embryonic development of the sea urchin and localizes to the sperm nucleus following fertilization. We now show that cyclin E localization to the sperm nucleus following fertilization is not unique to the sea urchin, but also occurs in the surf clam, and inhibition of cyclin E/cdk2 activity by roscovitine inhibits the morphological changes indicative of male pronuclear maturation in sea urchin zygotes. Finally, we show that inhibition of cyclin E/cdk2 activity does not block DNA replication in the early cleavage cycles of the sea urchin. We conclude that cyclin E/cdk2 activity is required for male pronuclear maturation, but not for initiation of DNA replication in early sea urchin development.
Cell surface localization of a novel non-genomic progesterone receptor on the head of human sperm.	Cell surface receptors for progesterone were visualized in human sperm using fluorescein isothiocyanate-progesterone 3-(O-carboxymethyl) oxime-bovine serum albumin (FITC prog CMO BSA). The receptors were confined to the head and not the midpiece or tail. FITC prog CMO BSA was also an effective stimulus to elevate intracellular free calcium in human sperm as detected by fura-2 fluorescence. The elevation of intracellular free calcium is a stimulus for the acrosome reaction, a process which is necessary to occur for sperm to fertilize the egg. It is proposed that progesterone, which is present in the female reproductive tract, can bind to progesterone receptors located in the plasma membrane of the sperm head and elicit an influx of Ca2+ into the underlying cytoplasm and or acrosome and induce the acrosome reaction and facilitate fertilization.
Assembly of the fluorescent acrosomal matrix and its fate in fertilization in the water strider, Aquarius remigis.	Animal sperm show remarkable diversity in both morphology and molecular composition. Here we provide the first report of intense intrinsic fluorescence in an animal sperm. The sperm from a semi-aquatic insect, the water strider, Aquarius remigis, contains an intrinsically fluorescent molecule with properties consistent with those of flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), which appears first in the acrosomal vesicle of round spermatids and persists in the acrosome throughout spermiogenesis. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching reveals that the fluorescent molecule exhibits unrestricted mobility in the acrosomal vesicle of round spermatids but is completely immobile in the acrosome of mature sperm. Fluorescence polarization microscopy shows a net alignment of the fluorescent molecules in the acrosome of the mature sperm but not in the acrosomal vesicle of round spermatids. These results suggest that acrosomal molecules are rearranged in the elongating acrosome and FAD is incorporated into the acrosomal matrix during its formation. Further, we followed the fate of the acrosomal matrix in fertilization utilizing the intrinsic fluorescence. The fluorescent acrosomal matrix was observed inside the fertilized egg and remained structurally intact even after gastrulation started. This observation suggests that FAD is not released from the acrosomal matrix during the fertilization process or early development and supports an idea that FAD is involved in the formation of the acrosomal matrix. The intrinsic fluorescence of the A. remigis acrosome will be a useful marker for following spermatogenesis and fertilization.
Alteration in the processing of the ACRBP/sp32 protein and sperm head/acrosome malformations in proprotein convertase 4 (PCSK4) null mice.	Proprotein convertase 4 (PCSK4) is a member of a family of proprotein convertases that convert inactive precursor proteins into their mature and active forms. PCSK4 is expressed by testicular germ cells and localizes to the sperm acrosome, suggesting roles in fertilization. Mice lacking PCSK4 exhibit a profound fertility defect; yet, to date, few substrates for PCSK4 are known. In this study, two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis analysis was carried out in order to identify proteins that are altered in spermatozoa from PCSK4 null mice. Herein, we report that the sperm fertilization molecule acrosin-binding protein (ACRBP)/sp32, which normally undergoes processing from a 58.5 kDa precursor to a 27.5 kDa mature form, is not proteolytically processed in PCSK4 null mice and thus may be a substrate for PCSK4. However, analysis of the ACRBP sequence did not show a strong consensus site for convertase cleavage, suggesting that ACRBP processing may require the activity of a yet unknown enzyme that itself may be a PCSK4 substrate. Further analysis of spermatozoa from the PCSK4 null mice showed that proacrosin did not undergo autoactivation, supporting a role for the mature form of ACRBP in the regulation of proacrosin conversion into different acrosin isoforms. Finally, examination of ACRBP localization revealed a previously undetected morphological defect in the head/acrosomes of spermatozoa from PCSK4 null mice. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the fertility defect in the PCSK4 null mice may in part be due to altered ACRBP protein processing as well as abnormalities in the sperm head/acrosome.
Small human sperm vacuoles observed under high magnification are pocket-like nuclear concavities linked to chromatin condensation failure.	Since an embryo's ability to grow to the blastocyst stage and implant can be improved by selection of a normal spermatozoon with a vacuole-free head, this study set out to determine the nature of small sperm vacuoles observed under high magnification (>×6300). For 15 infertile men with various sperm profiles, high-magnification microscopy was used to select motile, morphometrically normal spermatozoa with no vacuoles (n=450) or more than two small vacuoles (each of which occupied less than 4% of the head's area; n=450). Spermatozoa acrosome reaction status and degree of chromatin condensation were analysed. Three-dimensional deconvolution microscopy was used to accurately image the nucleus and acrosome at all depths in all spermatozoa. In all 450 spermatozoa with small vacuoles, the latter were seen to be abnormal, DNA-free nuclear concavities. Spermatozoa with small vacuoles were significantly more likely than vacuole-free spermatozoa to have noncondensed chromatin (39.8% versus 9.3%, respectively; P<0.0001). There was no significant difference between the two groups of spermatozoa in terms of acrosome reaction status. No association between chromatin condensation and acrosome reaction status was observed. Small human sperm vacuoles observed under high magnification are pocket-like nuclear concavities related to failure of chromatin condensation.
Further ultrastructural observations on the sperm head of the plains mouse, Pseudomys australis (Rodentia: Muridae).	Ultrastructural and histochemical techniques have been utilized to study selected aspects of the fine structure of the three-hooked sperm head of the plains mouse, Pseudomys australis. The peripheral layer of the two ventral hooks was found to consist of a continuation of the postacrosomal dense lamina. Parallel ridges connected the dense lamina and plasma membrane in the postacrosomal region and ventral hooks. Both these regions stained intensely with silver nitrate. The distribution of actin filaments in the hooks was investigated using NBD-phallacidin. Fluorescence was more intense in the apical regions of the ventral hooks, and two bands of fluorescence extended caudally from their base. It was also shown that the equatorial segment of the acrosome extended onto the dorsal hook. The structural features of the three hooks are discussed in relation to their possible functional significance.
The binding of exogenous DNA pRK31acZ by rabbit spermatozoa, its transfer to oocytes and expression in preimplantation embryos]	It was shown that 35.3% ejaculated rabbit spermatozoa washed from seminal plasma are capable of interacting with heterogeneous DNA. The major part (85.2%) of bound DNA was located in the post-acrosomal part of the sperm head. After incubation with plasmid pRK31acZ the spermatozoa transferred it in the oocytes during in vivo fertilization, as shown by expression of reporter gene lacZ in 19.3% of preimplantation embryos. Additional treatment of the mobile spermatozoa with DMSO and heat shock raised the efficiency of exogenous DNA incorporation in the spermatozoa, as expressed in the percentage of embryos containing bacterial beta-galactosidase (61.7%). It is proposed to use the capture of heterogeneous DNA by the spermatozoa and its transfer in the oocytes for production of transgenic animals and in studies of regulation of gene expression at the early stages of embryogenesis.
Initiation of DNA synthesis by nuclei from scrape-ruptured quiescent mammalian cells in high-speed supernatants of Xenopus egg extracts.	Demembranated sperm heads, detergent-isolated somatic nuclei and even naked DNA are efficiently replicated in cytoplasmic extracts of activated amphibian eggs, but only after nuclear assembly and the formation of an intact nuclear envelope. DNA synthesis has not previously been shown to be initiated in high-speed (200,000 g) supernatants of egg cytoplasm because they are depleted of the vesicular material required to support nuclear envelope formation. Here we show that mammalian nuclei prepared by scrape-rupture are able to initiate DNA replication in such high-speed supernatants. These nuclei begin DNA synthesis asynchronously. This asynchrony cannot be attributed to differences in the time taken for nuclear assembly. Instead, we suggest that the asynchrony reflects intrinsic differences between nuclei and that these differences are a major cause of cell cycle variability. Our demonstration of initiation in high-speed supernatants now enables the initiation of eukaryotic DNA synthesis to be studied independently of nuclear assembly.
Specific binding of acrosome-reaction-inducing substance to the head of starfish spermatozoa.	In the starfish, spermatozoa undergo the acrosome reaction upon encountering the jelly coat of eggs. A highly sulphated glycoprotein in the jelly coat is called acrosome-reaction-inducing substance (ARIS) because it is the key signal molecule to trigger the acrosome reaction. The activity of ARIS is mainly attributed to its sulphate and saccharide residues. The extremely large molecular size and species-specific action of ARIS suggest the presence of a specific ARIS receptor on the sperm surface, but no experimental evidence for the receptor has been presented. We therefore measured specific binding of ARIS and its pronase digest (P-ARIS), which retains the full activity of ARIS, to homologous spermatozoa by using fluorescein-isothiocyanate-labelled ARIS and 125I-labelled P-ARIS, respectively. The spermatozoa had the ability to bind ARIS, as well as P-ARIS, specifically. The binding was species-specific and mostly localised to the head region of spermatozoa. Scatchard plot analysis indicated the presence of one class of ARIS receptor on the surface of acrosome-intact spermatozoa. Furthermore, the specific binding of P-ARIS to the anterior region of sperm heads was microscopically confirmed by using P-ARIS conjugated to polystyrene latex beads with intense fluorescence. It is concluded that starfish spermatozoa have a specific receptor for ARIS on the surface of the anterior region of heads.
Inhibition of nuclear envelope reconstitution in Xenopus interphase egg extract by hemin.	Addition of hemin to the nuclear reconstitution system of Xenopus interphase egg extract using sperm head chromatin resulted in abnormal pseudonuclei exhibiting flattened membrane patches randomly distributed both on the surface and inside the nuclei. The structures that resembled nuclear pores were observed on these flattened membrane patch structures. Although the nucleosome structure was formed as revealed by the micrococcal nuclease digestion, the B-type lamin uptake into the nuclei was inhibited by hemin. Using heminagarose affinity chromatography, we isolated several hemin-binding proteins from fully reconstituted pseudonuclei. Some of the hemin-binding proteins bound concanavalin A (Con A). Comparison of hemin-binding proteins with those isolated from both fractions of supernatant and pellet separated by high speed centrifugation of the egg extract showed that the hemin-binding proteins of pseudonuclei were supplied from both fractions. The uptake of nuclear hemin-binding proteins did not occur in the incompletely reconstituted nuclei resulting from addition of excess sperm chromatin to the system. These results suggest that the hemin-binding proteins participate in the late steps of nuclear reconstitution during formation of the nuclear envelope.
