Global gene expression profiling of the polyamine system in suicide completers.	In recent years, gene expression, genetic association, and metabolic studies have implicated the polyamine system in psychiatric conditions, including suicide. Given the extensive regulation of genes involved in polyamine metabolism, as well as their interconnections with the metabolism of other amino acids, we were interested in further investigating the expression of polyamine-related genes across the brain in order to obtain a more comprehensive view of the dysregulation of this system in suicide. To this end, we examined the expression of genes related to polyamine metabolism across 22 brain regions in a sample of 29 mood-disordered suicide completers and 16 controls, and identified 14 genes displaying differential expression. Among these, altered expression of spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase, spermine oxidase, and spermine synthase, has previously been observed in brains of suicide completers, while the remainder of the genes represent novel findings. In addition to genes with direct involvement in polyamine metabolism, including S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase, ornithine decarboxylase antizymes 1 and 2, and arginase II, we identified altered expression of several more distally related genes, including aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family, member A2, brain creatine kinase, mitochondrial creatine kinase 1, glycine amidinotransferase, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, and arginyl-tRNA synthetase-like. Many of these genes displayed altered expression across several brain regions, strongly implying that dysregulated polyamine metabolism is a widespread phenomenon in the brains of suicide completers. This study provides a broader view of the nature and extent of the dysregulation of the polyamine system in suicide, and highlights the importance of this system in the neurobiology of suicide.
Polyamines mediate uncontrolled calcium entry and cell damage in rat heart in the calcium paradox.	Brief perfusion of heart with calcium-free medium renders myocardial cells calcium-sensitive so that readmission of calcium results in uncontrolled Ca2+ entry and acute massive cell injury (calcium paradox). We investigated the hypothesis that polyamines may be involved in the mediation of abnormal Ca2+ influx and cell damage in the calcium paradox. The isolated perfused rat heart was used for these studies. Calcium-free perfusion promptly (less than 5 min) decreased the levels of polyamines and the activity of their rate-regulating synthetic enzyme, ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), and calcium reperfusion abruptly (less than 15-180 s) increased these components. alpha-Difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a specific suicide inhibitor of ODC, suppressed the calcium reperfusion-induced increase in polyamines and the concomitant increase in myocardial cellular 45Ca influx, loss of contractility, release of cytosolic enzymes, myoglobin, and protein, and structural lesions. Putrescine, the product of ODC activity, nullified DFMO inhibition and restored the calcium reperfusion-induced increment in polyamines and the full expression of the calcium paradox. Putrescine itself enhanced the reperfusion-evoked release of myoglobin and protein in the absence of DFMO. Hypothermia blocked the changes in heart ODC and polyamines induced by calcium-free perfusion and calcium reperfusion and prevented the calcium paradox. These results indicate that rapid Ca2+-directed changes in ODC activity and polyamine levels are essential for triggering excessive transsarcolemmal transport of Ca2+ and explosive myocardial cell injury in the calcium paradox.
Polyamine distribution among maize embryonic tissues and its relation to seed germination.	Polyamines are known to participate in the control of cell division. In the present report, the levels and distribution of polyamines in the embryonic tissues of maize seeds were studied to relate them to the reinitiation of cell division during seed germination. Results indicate higher contents of polyamines in scutellum than in axis tissues of dry seeds. After germination, larger increments of the three polyamines were obtained in axes, rather than in scutella. Seeds of low viability did not show putrescine increments after germination. It is suggested that spermidine and spermine are directly related to the germination process.
