Etoposide exposure during male mouse pachytene has complex effects on crossing-over and causes nondisjunction.	In experiments involving different germ-cell stages, we had previously found meiotic prophase of the male mouse to be vulnerable to the induction of several types of genetic damage by the topoisomerase-II inhibitor etoposide. The present study of etoposide effects involved two end points of meiotic events known to occur in primary spermatocytes--chromosomal crossing-over and segregation. By following assortment of 13 microsatellite markers in two chromosomes (Ch 7 and Ch 15) it was shown that etoposide significantly affected crossing-over, but did not do so in a uniform fashion. Treatment generally changed the pattern for each chromosome, leading to local decreases in recombination, a distal shift in locations of crossing-over, and an overall decrease in double crossovers; at least some of these results might be interpreted as evidence for increased interference. Two methods were used to explore etoposide effects on chromosome segregation: a genetic experiment capable of detecting sex-chromosome nondisjunction in living progeny; and the use of FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) technology to score numbers of Chromosomes X, Y, and 8 in spermatozoa. Taken together these two approaches indicated that etoposide exposure of pachytene spermatocytes induces malsegregation, and that the findings of the genetic experiment probably yielded a marked underestimate of nondisjunction. As indicated by certain segregants, at least part of the etoposide effect could be due to disrupted pairing of achiasmatic homologs, followed by precocious sister-centromere separation. It has been shown for several organisms that absent or reduced levels of recombination, as well as suboptimally positioned recombination events, may be associated with abnormal segregation. Etoposide is the only chemical tested to date for which living progeny indicates an effect on both male meiotic crossing-over and chromosome segregation. Whether, however, etoposide-induced changes in recombination patterns are direct causes of the observed malsegregation requires additional investigation.
Lipid remodelling during epididymal maturation of rat spermatozoa. Enrichment in plasmenylcholines containing long-chain polyenoic fatty acids of the n-9 series.	In their transit from the caput to the cauda segments of the epididymis, rat spermatozoa undergo significant modifications in lipid content and composition. The amount of lipid phosphorus per cell decreases, and most lipid classes show specific changes in their constituent fatty acids. A depletion of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine, concomitant with a virtually unchanged amount of the corresponding plasmalogens, are the major alterations, plasmenylcholine thereby becoming the major phospholipid. Diphosphatidylglycerol, sphingomyelin and the phosphoinositides decrease to a lesser extent or do not change at all, also resulting in relative increases with sperm maturation. Concerning the fatty acids, the proportions of oleate (C18:1, n-9) and linoleate (C18:2, n-6) in most lipids decrease on movement of sperm from caput to cauda, augmenting in turn the proportions of longer-chain (C20 to C24) and more unsaturated fatty acids. Docosapentaenoate (C22:5, n-6) is a major acyl chain present in all lipids at both stages, but uncommon long-chain polyenoic fatty acids of the n-9 series are also present, being almost exclusively found in the choline glycerophospholipids. These fatty acids are found to undergo the most significant changes during sperm maturation. They are minor components of plasmenylcholine in immature spermatozoa, but increase severalfold on maturation, representing more than half of the acyl chains of this major lipid in cells from the cauda. The high concentration of n-9 polyenes in mature sperm plasmenylcholine raises intriguing questions on the possible role epididymal cells may play in providing spermatozoa with such an unusual phospholipid. These plasmenylcholines could contribute to the characteristic lipid domain organization of the mature spermatozoa plasma membrane.
A new paradigm for profiling testicular gene expression during normal and disturbed human spermatogenesis.	The aim of this study was to identify gene expression patterns of the testis that correlate with the appearance of distinct stages of male germ cells. We avoided the pitfalls of mixed pathological phenotypes of the testis and circumvented the inapplicability of using the first spermatogenic wave as done previously on rodents. This was accomplished by using 28 samples showing defined and highly homogeneous pathologies selected from 578 testicular biopsies obtained from 289 men with azoospermia (two biopsies each). The molecular signature of the different developmental stages correlated with the morphological preclassification of the testicular biopsies, as shown by resampling-based hierarchical clustering using different measures of variability. By using analysis of variance (ANOVA) and extensive permutation analysis, we filtered 1181 genes that exhibit exceptional statistical significance in testicular expression and grouped subsets with transcriptional changes within the pre-meiotic (348 genes), post-meiotic (81 genes) and terminal differentiation (38 genes) phase. Several distinct molecular classes, metabolic pathways and transcription factor binding sites are involved, depending on the transcriptional profile of the gene clusters that were built using a novel clustering procedure based on not only similarity but also statistical significance.
Treatment of severe male infertility by micromanipulation-assisted fertilization: an update.	In the past 5-10 years the evolution of micromanipulation-assisted fertilization for the treatment of severe male infertility was marked by the introduction of new technical support, refinement of diagnostic methods for the evaluation of sperm developmental potential, and development of new treatment regimens for the newly discovered abnormalities. The new technical support involves the use of non-contact laser technology to assist micromanipulation for fertilization, the evolution of polarized microscopy-based optical systems to non-invasively detect the position of the meiotic spindle in living human oocytes, and the development of high-magnification optical systems for a better morphological selection of spermatozoa to be used for fertilization. Diagnostic approaches were enriched by commercial availability of kits for the analysis of sperm DNA integrity, leading to the definition of sperm nuclear DNA damage as a distinct cause of male infertility, and by the development of tests, based on heterologous ICSI, for detection of sperm failure to activate oocytes. Several treatment options for these conditions have been proposed and are currently being tested in larger-scale trials. Some technical improvement was also achieved in the field of in vitro maturation of germ cells from men with in vivo maturation arrest, but only a modest clinical improvement resulted from their application. As to the risk for the offspring, recent data are rather reassuring. Except for the risk of transmission of genetically based infertility, no straightforward evidence for a health risk derived from these techniques has been provided. Nevertheless, caution is necessary, particularly concerning the eventual increase in genomic-imprinting abnormalities.
Functional redundancy among Nanos proteins and a distinct role of Nanos2 during male germ cell development.	The mouse Nanos proteins, Nanos2 and Nanos3, are required for germ cell development and share a highly conserved zinc-finger domain. The expression patterns of these factors during development, however, differ from each other. Nanos3 expression in the mouse embryo commences in the primordial germ cells (PGCs) just after their formation, and a loss of this protein results in the germ cell-less phenotype in both sexes. By contrast, Nanos2 expression begins only in male PGCs after their entry into the genital ridge and a loss of this protein results in a male germ cell deficiency, irrespective of the co-expression of Nanos3 in these cells. These results indicate that these two Nanos proteins have distinct functions, which depend on the time and place of their expression. To further elucidate this, we have generated transgenic mouse lines that express Nanos2 under the control of the Oct4DeltaPE promoter and examined Nanos2 function in a Nanos3-null genetic background. We find that ectopically produced Nanos2 protein rescues the Nanos3-null defects, because the germ cells fully develop in both sexes in the transgenic mice. This result indicates that Nanos2 can substitute for Nanos3 during early PGC development. By contrast, our current data show that Nanos3 does not rescue the defects in Nanos2-null mice. Our present findings thus indicate that there are redundant functions of the Nanos proteins in early PGC development, but that Nanos2 has a distinct function during male germ cell development in the mouse.
On the ontogenetic origin of human beings: the scientific solution]	Every living being is the result of a genome-environment interaction. Neither human oocytes nor spermatozoids have human functional genomes, but the zygote that they constitute may have a human functional genome and other functional genomes such as those of the hydatidiform mole, polyploids, and non-human living beings. When the zygotic human functional genome is integrated and activated, the biotic humanity is acquired. This may occur when the paternal chromatin decondenses; the nuclear environment and envelope of both nuclei are changed to constitute pronuclei; the replacement of sperm protamines by histones; genome imprinting modifications; centriole duplication; and more importantly, the fourfold genome replication. Other propositions on the origin of humans are: embryo implantation [6-7 days post fertilization, (dpf)]; the appearance of the antero-posterior axis; the limit for monozygote twining (13dpf) and the appearance of the neural tissue (16dpf). They are refuted because some mammals do not implant; embryo axes are present in the zygote; some animals regenerate complete individuals from each part in which they are divided; plants do not have neural system; a human whose brain was destroyed by cancer continues to be a human. Alternative propositions coming from philosophies, theologies, perceptive knowledge, beliefs and intuitions and based on conceptualizations like person, anima, soul, organization, socio-cultural relations are ideologically or religiously biased and based on irreducible beliefs such as faith. They lead to disagreement rather than to agreement.
Effect of pH on the development of acrosomal responsiveness of human sperm.	Human sperm incubated in vitro gradually become responsive to inducers of the acrosome reaction. The roles of constituents of the incubation medium are not well understood. These experiments tested the effect of the extracellular pH on sperm acrosomal responsiveness. Sperm were incubated 24 h in media with pH varying between 6.7 and 7.6 and then exposed to progesterone to determine the number of sperm that had become acrosomally responsive. The number of responsive sperm was very low following incubation at pH 6.7-7.0, and increased with the pH over the range 7.0-7.6. Sperm incubated at low pH were not damaged as assessed by motility or viability, and if they were transferred to medium of high pH for 8 h, the inhibition of acrosomal responsiveness was reversed. Inhibition of acrosomal responsiveness at low pH was not due to impaired loss of sperm cholesterol, but was correlated with a reduced intracellular pH. The inhibition of acrosomal responsiveness by media of low pH may result from preventing the normal capacitation-related rise in intracellular pH.
Semen analysis: the test techs love to hate.	At the heart of better semen analysis is professionalism. The walls of many labs are covered with slogans like, "at the end of every test is a worried patient who needs an answer". Semen analysis is no different. At its end is a couple desperate to have a child or start a family. In spite of the importance of semen analysis in fertility diagnosis and treatment, it remains in most clinical laboratories "the neglected laboratory test". The tips and recommendations in this article should help any lab improve the quality of semen analysis while reducing the effort required to produce better results. Knowledge and simple, repeatable procedures, combined with QC and competency benchmarks, can put the interest and satisfaction back into a test that is the gateway for fertility treatment. After all, what is not to love about a cell that swims and comes in so many interesting shapes?
Targeted disruption of Nphp1 causes male infertility due to defects in the later steps of sperm morphogenesis in mice.	Juvenile nephronophthisis type I is the most common genetic disorder causing end-stage renal failure in children and young adults. The defective gene responsible has been identified as NPHP1. Its gene product, nephrocystin-1, is a novel protein of uncertain function that is widely expressed in many tissues and not just confined to the kidney. To gain insight into the physiological function of nephrocystin, Nphp1-targeted mutant mice were generated by homologous recombination. Interestingly, homozygous Nphp1 mutant mice were viable without renal manifestations of nephronophthisis. They appeared normal, but males were infertile with oligoteratozoospermia. Histological analysis of the seminiferous tubules showed that spermatogenesis was blocked at the early stages of spermatid elongation, with degenerating spermatids sloughing off into the lumen. Electron microscopic analysis revealed detachment of early elongating spermatids from Sertoli cells, and a failure of sperm head and tail morphogenesis. However, a few mature spermatozoa were still deposited in the epididymis, though they were frequently dead, immotile, or malformed. These novel findings indicate that nephrocystin is critically required for the differentiation of early elongating spermatids into spermatozoa in mice. The possible roles of nephrocystin in the formation and maintenance of Sertoli-spermatid junctions are still under investigation.
Human serum albumin as the protein source in culture of human oocytes, spermatozoa and pre-embryos]	In the treatment of infertility employing in vitro fertilisation and embryo transfer (IVF-EF), oocytes, spermatozoa and pre-embryos are cultured for 48 hours outside the woman's body before they are introduced into the uterus. In addition to the necessary salts, the media in which this culture takes place, also consists of a source of protein. In order to eliminate the variability of patient sera, a prospective, randomized investigation was performed to elucidate whether a well-defined source of protein such as human serum albumin (hSA-hSA 200 mg/ml, Statens Seruminstitute) can replace patient serum as source of protein in the culture of oocytes, spermatozoa and pre-embryos in IVF-ET treatment. The pregnancy rate per transplantation was increased from 30% in the serum group (21 pregnant out of 69 transplantations) to 39% in the albumin group (26 pregnant out of 66 transplantations) but the difference is not significant. On the other hand, the quality of the pre-embryos as assessed by morphological criteria became significantly better and the implantation rate per transplanted pre-embryo was found to be significantly increased in the albumin group. On the basis of this investigation, hSA is recommended as the source of protein, rather than the patient's own serum in the culture of oocytes, spermatozoa and pre-embryos in IVF-ET treatment.
The power of mouse genetics to study spermatogenesis.	Approximately 80 million people worldwide are infertile, and nearly half of all infertility cases are attributed to a male factor. Therefore, progress in reproductive genetics becomes crucial for future diagnosis and treatment of infertility. In recent years, enormous progress has been made in this field. More than 400 mutant mouse models with specific reproductive abnormalities have been produced, and numerous human association studies have been discovered. However, the translation of basic science findings to clinical practice remains protracted, with only modest progress in the application of novel findings to clinical genetic testing and cures. To date, the most significant findings in male infertility remain numeric and structural chromosomal abnormalities and Y-chromosome microdeletions in infertile men. Thus, we anticipate that future genetic investigations will focus on infertile men with a normal somatic karyotype but with various spermatozoal defects, like insufficient production of spermatozoa (oligozoospermia), inadequate motility (asthenozoospermia), abnormal morphology (teratozoospermia), or combinations of these defects. Ultimately, basic advances in mammalian nonhuman reproduction will translate to clinical advances in human reproduction and testing for infertile humans, thereby helping to improve diagnostics and health care for infertile patients.
A comparative analysis of the morphology and evolution of permanent sperm depletion in spiders.	Once thought to be energetically cheap and easy to produce, empirical work has shown that sperm is a costly and limited resource for males. In some spider species, there is behavioral evidence that sperm are permanently depleted after a single mating. This extreme degree of mating investment appears to co-occur with other reproductive strategies common to spiders, e.g. genital mutilation and sexual cannibalism. Here we corroborate that sperm depletion in the golden orb-web spider Nephila clavipes is permanent by uncovering its mechanistic basis using light and electron microscopy. In addition, we use a phylogeny-based statistical analysis to test the evolutionary relationships between permanent sperm depletion (PSD) and other reproductive strategies in spiders. Male testes do not produce sperm during adulthood, which is unusual in spiders. Instead, spermatogenesis is nearly synchronous and ends before the maturation molt. Testis size decreases as males approach their maturation molt and reaches its lowest point after sperm is transferred into the male copulatory organs (pedipalps). As a consequence, the amount of sperm available to males for mating is limited to the sperm contained in the pedipalps, and once it is used, males lose their ability to fertilize eggs. Our data suggest that PSD has evolved independently at least three times within web-building spiders and is significantly correlated with the evolution of other mating strategies that limit males to monogamy, including genital mutilation and sexual cannibalism. We conclude that PSD may be an energy-saving adaptation in species where males are limited to monogamy. This could be particularly important in web-building spiders where extreme sexual size dimorphism results in large, sedentary females and small, searching males who rarely feed as adults and are vulnerable to starvation. Future work will explore possible energetic benefits and the evolutionary lability of PSD relative to other mate-limiting reproductive behaviors.
The sperm-oocyte switch in the C. elegans hermaphrodite is controlled through steady-state levels of the fem-3 mRNA.	Post-transcriptional control regulates many aspects of germline development in the Caenorhabditis elegans hermaphrodite. This nematode switches from spermatogenesis to oogenesis and is, therefore, capable of self-fertilization. This sperm-oocyte switch requires 3' UTR-mediated repression of the fem-3 mRNA. Loss of fem-3 repression results in continuous spermatogenesis in hermaphrodites. Although several factors regulating fem-3 have been identified, little is known about the mechanisms that control fem-3. Here, we investigate the steady-state levels of the fem-3 transcript and the expression pattern of its protein product. We show that FEM-3 is exclusively present in germ cells that are committed to spermatogenesis. We found that in fem-3(gf)/+ heterozygotes, mutant fem-3 gain-of-function transcripts are more abundant than their wild-type counterpart. Furthermore, we show that the penetrance of the fem-3(gf) allele correlates with inefficient FBF binding and extended poly(A) tail size of fem-3 mRNAs. Finally, we show that wild-type and gain-of-function mutated fem-3 mRNAs associate equally well with polyribosomes. We propose that the fem-3 mRNA is regulated through stabilization rather than through translatability.
The maternal to zygotic transition in mammals.	Prior to activation of the embryonic genome, the initiating events of mammalian development are under maternal control and include fertilization, the block to polyspermy and processing sperm DNA. Following gamete union, the transcriptionally inert sperm DNA is repackaged into the male pronucleus which fuses with the female pronucleus to form a 1-cell zygote. Embryonic transcription begins during the maternal to zygotic transfer of control in directing development. This transition occurs at species-specific times after one or several rounds of blastomere cleavage and is essential for normal development. However, even after activation of the embryonic genome, successful development relies on stored maternal components without which embryos fail to progress beyond initial cell divisions. Better understanding of the molecular basis of maternal to zygotic transition including fertilization, the activation of the embryonic genome and cleavage-stage development will provide insight into early human development that should translate into clinical applications for regenerative medicine and assisted reproductive technologies. 
Out-of-season production of 17,20β-dihydroxypregn-4-en-3-one in the roach Rutilus rutilus.	In this study, although the highest production of two physiologically significant progestins in teleosts [17,20β-dihydroxypregn-4-en-3-one (17,20β-P) and 17,20β,21-trihydroxypregn-4-en-3-one (17,20β,21-P)] was observed in the period just prior to spawning in both male and female roach Rutilus rutilus, there was also a substantial production (mean levels of 5-10 ng ml(-1) in blood; and a rate of release of 5-20 ng fish(-1)  h(-1) into the water) in males and females in the late summer and early autumn (at least 7 months prior to spawning). During this period, the ovaries were increasing rapidly in size and histological sections were dominated by oocytes in the secondary growth phase [i.e. incorporation of vitellogenin (VTG)]. At the same time, the testes were also increasing rapidly in size and histological sections were dominated by cysts containing mainly spermatogonia type B. Measurements were also made of 11-ketotestosterone (11-KT) in males and 17β-oestradiol and VTG in females. The 3 months with the highest production of 11-KT coincided with the period that spermatozoa were present in the testes. In females, the first sign of a rise in 17β-oestradiol concentrations coincided with the time of the first appearance of yolk globules in the oocytes (in August). The role of the progestins during the late summer and autumn has not been established. 
Melatonin-mediated effects on killifish reproductive axis.	The aim of this study was to investigate the melatonin-mediated effects upon the neuroendocrine axis of the brackish killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus), a suitable experimental model to study reproductive events. The ability of melatonin to enhance reproductive capacity (fecundity, embryo survival and hatching rate) inducing the transcriptional activity of gonadotropin releasing hormone (gnrh), luteinizing hormone receptor (lhr) and melatonin receptor (mtnr) was investigated in adult females. Moreover, the melatonin-mediated enhancement of killifish sperm motility and velocity was found consistent with higher fecundity of melatonin-exposed fishes. As a further extent, Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) microspectroscopy evidenced a reduction of lipid unsaturation level on isolated spermatozoa from treated males. Moreover, the reduction of mtnr gene expression during embryo development and lower biometric parameters documented in the larvae from melatonin-exposed parents suggest that melatonin acts as a hormonal mediator able to transfer the environmental signal to oocytes and then to embryos as inheritance of adaptive environmental changes. These results support the positive role of melatonin on killifish reproduction and its role as a maternal factor on embryo and larval development. 
Levels of FSH, LH and testosterone, and sperm DNA fragmentation.	Having an offspring is the most important human biological goal, which is necessary for survival of the human species. Lack of offspring is a phenomenon concerning approximately 15% of married couples in Poland. In a half of the cases, a causative agent is the male factor infertility problem. There is evidence that certain male fertility problems are related with disorders of the process of spermatogenesis. The course of normal spermatogenesis depends on proper pituitary secretion of folliculostimulin (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), as well as testicular secretion of testosterone. It is considered that in approximately 20% of patients with idiopathic infertility an elevated level of sperm DNA fragmentation may be the cause of failure in reproduction. The objective of the present study was determination of the relationship between FSH, LH and testosterone levels, and the occurrence of sperm DNA fragmentation.
Maturation antigen of the mouse sperm flagellum: II. Origin from holocrine cells of the distal caput epididymis.	During epididymal transit, the mouse sperm flagellum acquires a surface glycoprotein (SMA4) from epididymal fluid that functions as a sperm antiagglutinin. To determine the origin of this molecule, testes and epididymides of male mice were sectioned for light microscopy and stained with wheat germ agglutinin (WGA)-peroxidase, a probe that has been used previously to examine the biology of SMA4. WGA reactivity was localized to the cytoplasm in a small population of cells in the distal caput epididymis. Testis cells and principle cells of the caput were nonreactive with WGA, while stereocilia were stained on principle cells in the corpus and cauda. The WGA-positive cells in the distal caput were identified as holocrine cells on the basis of morphology, distribution, and PAS + reaction. At high magnification, intense WGA reactivity was due to the presence of numerous apical granules in the cytoplasm. The location of the cells in distal caput coincided exactly with the region of tubule in which sperm first acquired SMA4 on their flagellae. These data suggest that holocrine cells near the junction of caput and corpus epididymis are the source of the sperm antiagglutinin SMA4.
Development and initiation of sperm motility in the hamster epididymis.	Hamster spermatozoa were isolated from the caput, corpus and cauda epididymidis. They were observed in culture medium at 37 degrees C with a phase-contrast microscope and their motility recorded cinematographically. About 20 p. 100 of the caput epididymidis spermatozoa were motile and moved in a confined space with no forward progression. 30 p. 100 of the corpus epididymidis spermatozoa were motile, showing increased flagellar activity and moving in wide circles. 90 p. 100 of the cauda epididymidis spermatozoa were motile and moved forward. Forward motility was induced in immotile spermatozoa from the caput epididymidis by adding cyclic 3'-5' adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) phosphodiesterase inhibitors (caffeine, theophylline, IMX) and epididymal plasma. The best stimulation was initiated by 15 mM caffeine with 10 p. 100 of cauda epididymal plasma; a mean of 60 p, 100 of forward motility was obtained which lasted for one hour and then ceased. Cinematographic studies revealed that some induced sperm movements differed from the equivalent natural ones by the amplitude of the head movements. It is shown that during epididymal transit of hamster spermatozoa, the induction of forward motility requires not only an increased cAMP level but also factors from the cauda epididymal plasma. The idea that glycoprotein of epididymal origin initiates forward motility is discussed.
Chalone or inhibine: control of progenitor spermatogonia in the adult rat by gonadal protein extracts]	Adult male rats received one injection (J0) of busulfan (10 mg/kg BW), which is specifically lethal for type A spermatogonia (Jackson and al., 1962). They were subsequently injected daily (J1 - J10) either with a proteinaceous extract of adult ram testis (10 mg of proteins/day) via the subcutaneous route, or with ram testicular fluid (1, 2 mg of protein/day), or with bovine serum albumin (1 mg/day) in order to analyse the resultant modification of the repopulation of seminiferous epithelium by the reserve stem cells (Clermont and Mauger, 1974). At the end of the treatments (J11), the number of type A spermatogonia per tubular cross section was significantly decreased in animals receiving testicular extract of fluid. The number of primary spermatocytes, from preleptotene up to zygotene stages were only diminished by testicular fluid supplementation. Ten days later (J20) the populations of primary spermatocytes, from preleptotene to pachytene stages derived from cells which were type A spermatogonia at the time of injections, were depleted. Type A spermatogonia were only decreased by testicular fluid treatment. Testicular fluid or extracts did not modify body weight nor the weights of other organs. A protein-like factor originating from the testis and present in the testicular fluid can thus modify the population of type A spermatogonia. Its action, however, is not specific for germ cells as Sertoli cells are affected by the administration of testicular extract in prepuberal rats (Hochereau-De-Reviers and Courot, 1978).
The use of periovulatory human cervical mucus in human sperm capacitation and in-vitro fertilization of foreign eggs.	The time requirement of a routine in-vitro fertilization experiment using human spermatozoa and zona-free hamster oocytes is more than one working day. We have used a simple process of simultaneous sperm washing and capacitation before challenging them against oocytes. Spermatozoa were recovered up to 90 minutes from the proximal end of a column of periovulatory human cervical mucus into Brinster, Whitten and Whittingham's (B.W.W.) medium. Without any further capacitation 50 microliters of these spermatozoal suspension, in the concentration of 2.5-3 X 10(6)/ml, fertilized 81% of a total of 100 eggs. A dramatic decrease in the fertilization rate (18%) was observed when these spermatozoa were further capacitated in-vitro for five hours before actual egg incubation for three hours. Both selection and accelerated capacitation may contribute to this result.
Molecular cloning and developmental expression of an mRNA encoding the 27 kDa outer dense fiber protein of rat spermatozoa.	We have isolated a cDNA (ODF27), encoding the major 27 kDa protein of rat sperm outer dense fibers (ODF), by screening a testicular lambda-gt11 phage cDNA library with an affinity-purified anti-27 kDa ODF polyclonal antibody. A cyanogen bromide derived internal amino acid (a.a.) sequence of the 27 kDa ODF protein was identical to an internal region of the deduced a.a. sequence of this cDNA. The cDNA encodes a protein with a high proportion of a repetitive motif, Cys-Gly-Pro, at the carboxy-terminal end, reminiscent of the testis-specific Mst(3)CGP proteins of Drosophila melanogaster (Schäfer et al., 1993. Mol Cell Biol 13:1708-1718). Nick translation probes of the ODF27 cDNA recognized two complementary mRNAs of 1.2 and 1.5 kb in the rat testis. Developmental Northern blot analysis revealed that these mRNAs are first transcribed in round spermatids. In situ hybridization confirmed the haploid expression of these transcripts and demonstrated that they are found in the cytoplasm of spermatids throughout most of the duration of spermiogenesis. They reach a peak in steps 8-10 of spermiogenesis at the time transcription ceases, remain at high levels from steps 11 to 15, and diminish in steps 16-18 at the time ODF protein synthesis and assembly are shown to be maximum. The translation of these transcripts, therefore, appears to be post-transcriptionally controlled. A literature and NCBl database search revealed that the nucleotide sequence of the 027 cDNA is homologous to the rat gene RT7 (Van Der Hoorn et al., 1990. Dev Biol 142:147-154) and to the rat testis-specific cDNA rts 5/1 (Burfeind and Hoyer-Fender, 1991. Dev Biol 148:195-204), which encodes a 27 kDa polypeptide.
Fine structure of the germinating cells during the spermiogenesis of Arion rufus (Mollusca, Pulmonate Gastropoda).	Changes in spermatozoan ultrastructure have been studied during spermiogenesis of the slug Arion rufus (Gastropoda, Pulmonata, Stylommatophora). The ovotestis was investigated during the male stage, definite by the presence of spermatozoa. Some peculiar characteristics are shown by early spermatids: Around the nucleus, the nuclear envelope presents two thick layers located on opposite sides, the apical and basal plates, that will determine the antero-posterior axis of the spermatid. The chromatin, first dispersed throughout the nucleoplasm gives later on thick filaments which become attached over the inner surface of these plates. The chromatin filaments are then arranged parallel to the anteroposterior axis as the nucleus elongates. The position of the plates determines the antero-posterior axis of the spermatid. In the mature spermatozoa, the chromatin is more condensed and the nucleus presents an helical organization. The acrosome and flagellum are respectively attached externally to the center of the apical and basal plates. The acrosome consists of a membrane-bound vesicle and forms a column of homogeneous material. In the middle piece, the mitochondria have been transformed into a mitochondrial derivate by the way of a complicated metamorphosis. The axoneme is surrounded by three mitochondrial helices but only one of them contains glycogene granules.
A fusca gene homologue in mammalian tissues: Developmental regulation in the rat testes.	By differential screening of a rat pineal cDNA library we identified earlier a novel transcript having a 57% nucleotide homology and a 45% amino acid identity with a plant fusca-gene (fus6) to which a corresponding human sequence (gps1) has recently been reported. Expression of this mammalian fusca homologue (mfh) was seen in a variety of mammalian tissues, including kidney, pineal and retina, but it was particularly strong in the testes. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that the rat testicular mfh message increases markedly from day 28 onwards. Additionally, by in situ hybridization, mfh was localized primarily to the seminiferous tubules with a stage-dependent distribution pattern, a result which was confirmed by immunohistochemistry with antibodies raised against a synthetic MFH oligopeptide. Western blotting also revealed strong signals of the expected molecular weight in testicular extracts from several species. In view of its homology to fus6, a plant gene known to be involved in repressing photomorphogenesis in darkness, the conservation of mfh in mammals suggests a potential function for MFH in signaling pathways involved in the regulation of mammalian differentiation and development.
Stage- and subcellular-specific expression of Id proteins in male germ and Sertoli cells implicates distinctive regulatory roles for Id proteins during meiosis, spermatogenesis, and Sertoli cell function.	Immunohistological detection of each of the four Id proteins (Id1-Id4) in sections of mouse testis revealed a unique temporal and spatial expression pattern for each Id protein during spermatogenesis. Furthermore, each Id protein displayed a distinctive, dynamic pattern of subcellular distribution. Id1 was uniquely expressed in MI/MII spermatocytes undergoing meiotic division. Id4 protein was detectable in the cytoplasm of type A1 spermatogonia, as well as in late pachytene and in diplotene spermatocytes. Id2 protein, which was most abundant in Sertoli cell nuclei, was also detectable in pachytene and diplotene spermatocytes, but as with Id4, it was absent from MI/MII cells. In postmeiotic spermatids, Id1, Id2, and Id4 proteins were expressed in a stage- and subcellular-specific manner. Expression of Id3 was restricted to Sertoli cell cytoplasm. In malignant seminoma cells, all four Id proteins were abundantly expressed with accompanying changes in their subcellular distribution. The observed expression of Id proteins in postproliferative Sertoli cells and spermatids and during specific stages of meiosis implies novel functional roles for this class of transcriptional regulator during spermatogenesis.
