Sulfhydryl oxidase immunoreactivity in seminiferous tubules of infertile men.	Sulfhydryl oxidase (SOx) immunoreactivity was investigated in the seminiferous epithelium of human biopsy material from the testes of 33 adult men with disturbed fertility. SOx immunoreactivity was expressed in normal seminiferous epithelium in type-A spermatogonia (27 +/- 4% of all spermatogonia) (n = 4), in spermatocytes and round spermatids. Mature spermatozoa as well as Sertoli cells were unlabelled. Within the interstitium, Leydig cells were immunopositive. In biopsies of oligozoospermic men showing hypospermatogenesis (n = 24), an increase in labelled spermatogonia up to more than 90% was observed in biopsies, where seminiferous epithelia revealed only spermatogonia and Sertoli cells. Within the group of oligozoospermic patients there was a significant increase of labelled spermatogonia from 43 +/- 13% (greater than 20 mill/ejaculate) (n = 7) to 55 +/- 16% (less than 20 and greater than 10 mill/ejaculate) (n = 6) to 68 +/- 8% (less than 5 mill/ejaculate) (n = 11) and a significant (P = 0.01) decrease of score count from 7.0 +/- 2.7 to 2.0 +/- 1.8. In this group the increase of labelled spermatogonia was correlated with sperm concentrations in the ejaculate (correlation coefficient: r = -0.6). In biopsies of azoospermic patients showing maturation arrest at the level of spermatocytes or spermatids (n = 5) the percentage of labelled spermatogonia was within the range of 24% to 59%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunohistochemical distribution of sulfhydryl oxidase in the human testis.	Sulfhydryl oxidase (SOx) is an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of sulfhydryl compounds. It is present in mitochondria of certain testicular cells at specific stages of functional activation. In the mature human testis moderate SOx immunoreactivity is found in Leydig cells, and lacking in Sertoli and in peritubular cells. The Adark spermatogonia usually contain immunoreactive mitochondria, while in Apale spermatogonia immunoreactivity is mostly low. In stage V of spermatogenesis, Apale spermatogonia were found containing immunoreactive material. Leptotene (stages IV and V) and zygotene (stage VI) primary spermatocytes display a moderate immunoreaction. It is strongest in pachytene spermatocytes of stages I-IV, decreases in stage V, and is low during diakinesis and in secondary spermatocytes. Late spermatids usually show a stronger immunoreactivity than early spermatids. At stage V of spermatogenesis the late spermatids contain only few immunoreactive particles. Spermatozoa are free of SOx-immunoreactive mitochondria. In residual bodies small amounts of SOx-immunoreactive particles are seen. Compared to rat and hamster testis, SOx immunoreactivity of the human testis is less clearly stage-dependent and it is not confined to certain germ cell stages. As deduced from the findings in patients with spermatogenic disorders, the SOx immunoreactivity of spermatogonia in human testis seems to be of diagnostic relevance.
Immunohistochemical localization of testicular sulphydryloxidase during sexual maturation of the Djungarian hamster (Phodopus sungorus).	Immunohistochemical localization of sulphydryloxidase was examined in the testis of the Djungarian hamster from Day 0 to Day 31 of post-natal development. The sulphydryloxidase antibody labelled prespermatogonia and the first population of spermatogonia type A within the seminiferous epithelium. Additionally, Sertoli cells exhibited immunoreactivity from Day 2 to Day 11 after birth. From Day 11 onwards, sulphydryloxidase immunoreactivity was found in germ cells after the initiation spermatogenesis from pachytene primary spermatocytes, showing the highest intensity in mid-pachytene spermatocytes. The pattern of sulphydryloxidase expression during spermatogenesis was identical to that found in adult animals. It is concluded that sulphydryloxidase immunoreactivity not only serves as a marker for early stages of spermatogenesis, especially pachytene spermatocytes, confirming earlier reports, but also for spermatogonial precursors.
Replicating premeiotic germ cells of the mouse contain a novel DNA primase stimulatory factor.	A protein factor that stimulates DNA primase activity associated with DNA polymerase alpha has been identified in mouse germ cell populations enriched in spermatogonia and preleptotene spermatocytes. The partially purified factor enhances DNA primase activity from homologous cell types as well as DNA primase activity from Xenopus laevis oocytes in a poly dT or M 13 directed reaction. The factor does not stimulate DNA polymerase alpha activity in a gapped salmon sperm or poly dT-rA directed reaction. The DNA primase stimulating factor is identified in a male mouse germ cell population enriched in premeiotic cells; it is not detectable in middle-late pachytene spermatocytes, spermatids, Sertoli cells or fibroblasts.
Purification and partial amino acid sequence of initiatorin, a prostatic endopeptidase of the silkworm, Bombyx mori.	We have purified initiatorin, a prostatic endopeptidase that initiates the protein-arginine degradation cascade in the spermatophore of Bombyx mori. Purification of the enzyme from spermatophores was monitored by measuring BAEE (N alpha-benzoyl-L-arginine-ethyl ester) hydrolyzing activity. Spermatophores were used as a source for this enzyme. Of several isoforms the major form (MW, 29 kDa) was purified over 200-fold. The N-terminal sequence of initiatorin showed strong homology with those of serine-type of endopeptidases.
Differential appearance of DNase I-hypersensitive sites correlates with differential transcription of Pgk genes during spermatogenesis in the mouse.	Two functional genes encoding phosphoglycerate kinase are differentially expressed during spermatogenesis in the mouse. Expression of the X-linked Pgk-1 gene is repressed coincident with X chromosome inactivation during prophase of meiosis I. At this same stage, expression of the autosomal Pgk-2 gene is initiated by tissue-specific mechanisms. To investigate the role of chromatin structure in these processes, we have examined the appearance and disappearance of DNase I-hypersensitive (DH) sites in each gene, and correlated this with transcriptional activity as measured by nuclear run-off analysis at specific stages of spermatogenesis. Our results demonstrate that the occurrence of DH sites is related to periods of active transcription. Results with the Pgk-1 gene indicate that transcriptional inactivation of the X chromosome in spermatogenic cells may not be as complete as that in somatic cells, and that maximum repression may be limited to a very transient period during the pachytene stage of first meiotic prophase. Results with the Pgk-2 gene indicate that DH sites appear coincident with, or just prior to, transcriptional activation of this gene. The implications of these results are discussed with respect to the role of X chromosome inactivation in spermatogenic cells and the developmental order of molecular events that regulate differential gene expression during spermatogenesis.
