In vitro interactions of cryopreserved stallion spermatozoa and oviduct (uterine tube) epithelial cells or their secretory products.	Formation of a spermatozoa ('sperm') reservoir in the mare is thought to occur through lectin-mediated sperm attachment to the oviductal epithelium. Once attached, prefertilization sperm survival is supported by oviductal factors. Cryopreservation of stallion sperm decreases the number of sperm attaching to oviduct epithelial cells (OEC) and the length of time these sperm survive. Quantification of in vitro interactions between sperm and OEC in a co-culture system may provide an assay for functional integrity of cryopreserved or fresh sperm samples. Additionally, superior additives for in vitro handling of stallion sperm may be isolated from OEC secretory products. Experiment 1 compared first service conception (FSC) rates resulting from the use of cryopreserved sperm of seven stallions, with sperm function in co-culture such as attachment to OEC and subsequent survival time. Stallions were grouped by cumulative FSC rates observed over three seasons as having average (44 +/- 3%) or high (65 +/- 2%) fertility over a total of 217 first services (31 +/- 9 per stallion). Samples from stallions in the high fertility group had more (P = 0.04) sperm attached to OEC and longer subsequent sperm survival in co-culture (P = 0.05) as compared with those from the average fertility group. FSC rates correlated with numbers of sperm attaching to OEC and their survival time in co-culture (r > or = 0.71). In Experiment 2, the function of cryopreserved stallion sperm was evaluated in culture with OEC secretory products from three different sources. After 5 h of culture, sperm incubated with medium conditioned by bovine OEC which had been 'bioactivated' (e.g. previously exposed to sperm in culture) were found to be more (P < or = 0.05) motile and capacitated as compared to sperm in basal TALP medium alone. Sperm in this conditioned medium also survived longer (P = 0.05; 27 +/- 5 h vs. 17 +/- 4 h) than did those in control medium.
Sperm mobility: A primary determinant of fertility in the domestic fowl (Gallus domesticus).	Previous research demonstrated that sperm mobility is a quantitative trait of the domestic fowl. The trait is quantified by measuring the absorbance of an Accudenz solution after overlay with a sperm suspension and brief incubation at body temperature. In the present work, average and high sperm mobility phenotypes (n = 30 males per phenotype) were selected from a base population. Differences were found between sperm oxygen consumption (p < 0.0001), acylcarnitine content (p < 0.05), linear velocity (p < 0.001), and straightness (p < 0.001), a trajectory variable measured with the Hobson SpermTracker. Oxygen consumption and stearoylcarnitine content of sperm from the high-mobility phenotype were twice those observed with sperm from average males, implying a pivotal role for mitochondria. On the basis of these results, a graded relationship was predicted between fertility and sperm mobility. Males (n = 48) were chosen at random from another base population, sperm mobility was measured per male, and each ejaculate was used to inseminate 8-12 hens (8 x 10(7) viable sperm per hen). When fertility was plotted as a function of sperm mobility, data points approximated a skewed logistic function. The hypothesis that vaginal immunoglobulins constitute an immunological barrier to sperm transport was tested and rejected. Therefore, we concluded that sperm mobility is a primary determinant of fertility in the fowl.
Analysis of in vitro migration patterns of human spermatozoa by a petri dish-based horizontal column.	Spermatozoa are required to travel a considerable distance in vivo to meet the oocyte at the fertilization site. However, none of the existing in vitro tests critically evaluates migration of sperm to assess their potential of reaching the oocyte. On the other hand, an in vivo model is not suitable for this type of study because of ethical and technical constraints. In the present study we utilized a horizontal column technique to analyze sperm migration. Migratory characteristics of fresh, unwashed semen sperm and sperm undergoing various treatments were examined in vitro using a Petri dish-based horizontal fluid column. The procedure involved loading a sperm sample into the column and determining sperm concentration, motility, and viability at different column segments for different migration durations (6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h). All sperm samples produced an exponential migration pattern in all durations of migration. Propagation along the column edge, tendency to exit from the column, and hiding in the blind pouches were some of the important characteristic features exhibited by the migratory sperm. Variations in migration patterns were documented among semen donors, between fresh and frozen semen, and between washed and unwashed sperm. Prolonged postejaculation time diminished migratory potential. The recovery of sperm in the column end was independent of seminal variables with the exception of oligozoospermia. These observations suggest that the Petri dish-based horizontal column is effective for analyzing sperm migration characteristics for prolonged periods. The potential of this migration assay in predicting the in vivo potential of spermatozoa to reach the fertilization site will be worth exploring.
Turkey sperm mobility influences paternity in the context of competitive fertilization.	We have devised a novel means of investigating competitive fertilization in turkeys, using microsatellite genotyping to identify male parentage. Our results demonstrate that sperm mobility is a mechanism responsible in part for paternity efficiency in turkeys. Sperm mobility is composed of several parameters in which sperm motility is a component. Differences between ejaculates in the number of sperm penetrating into a dense, insert, nontoxic solution were measured and used to classify males into high, average, or low sperm mobility phenotypes. Microsatellite genotyping was used to determine parentage of poults after equal numbers of sperm from 10 males (either high or average phenotype, n = 5, mixed with low phenotype, n = 5) were inseminated simultaneously. In a separate study, the numbers of sperm hydrolyzing the perivitelline layer of eggs were compared between hens inseminated with sperm from high-, average-, or low-phenotype males. Overall, heterospermic inseminations resulted in consistently fewer offspring produced by low-mobility phenotype males. This correlated with physiological data in which semen from the low-mobility males had reduced numbers of sperm at the fertilization site as determined by sperm hole counts in the perivitelline layer of eggs. This is the first illustration of a measurable sperm trait predictive of paternity success in a competitive fertilization trial in turkeys, a species that is predominately reproduced by artificial insemination of multiple-sire pools.
Sperm viability in ram semen diluted and stored in three different extenders.	Semen was collected with an artificial vagina from 4 one-year-old rams, in order to study the changes in sperm motility and membrane integrity of spermatozoa split-diluted and stored at 5 degrees C during 7 days in sodium citrate, Tris, and milk-based extenders, respectively. Sperm motility was assessed subjectively and sperm membrane integrity was determined using the fluorescent probes Calcein-AM and Ethidium homodimer. Representative samples were studied using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The average incidence of sperm motility decreased over time in all the extenders (p < 0.001). The incidence of spermatozoa showing progressive motility and intact plasma membrane was significantly higher in semen diluted with sodium citrate than in the other 2 extenders following 4 days of dilution until the end of the study. Evaluation with SEM confirmed the findings obtained with the supra vital fluorescent dyes. The results of the present study indicated that there were no differences between sodium citrate-, Tris- or milk-based extenders when ovine liquid semen was stored at 5 degrees C during a short period (2 days). However, when semen was stored for longer time, spermatozoa in the sodium citrate-based extender sustained its viability better.
Comparative analyses of semen and endocrine characteristics of free-living versus captive jaguars (Panthera onca).	Semen and blood samples were obtained from free-living (n = 6) and captive (n = 8) jaguars (Panthera onca) to compare reproductive characteristics between the two populations. Semen samples were analysed for volume (ml), percentage of motile spermatozoa, rate of forward progression (0-5), concentration (10(6) ml(-1)), total sperm count (10(6)) and sperm morphology. Serum testosterone concentration was determined by radioimmunoassay. Although ejaculate volume was greater in captive jaguars (n = 47 samples) than in free-living jaguars (n = 7 samples) (P < 0.05), the free-living jaguars produced more total spermatozoa (59.3 +/- 12.8 versus 152.0 +/- 88.0 x 10(6), respectively; not significant) with better viability and forward progression (2.8 +/- 0.1 versus 3.5 +/- 0.2, respectively; P < 0.05) and more spermatozoa with normal morphology (73.5 +/- 3.9 versus 5.0 +/- 1.1%, respectively; P < 0.05). Serum testosterone concentrations were similar for captive and free-living male jaguars (3.1 +/- 0.7 and 2.1 +/- 0.8 ng ml(-1), respectively). In summary, the data showed that semen may be collected successfully from free-living jaguars and evaluated under field conditions to establish normative reproductive values in this species. The results also indicate that jaguars maintained in zoos show inferior seminal characteristics compared with free-living animals.
Comparison between human sperm preservation medium and TEST-yolk buffer on protecting chromatin and morphology integrity of human spermatozoa in fertile and subfertile men after freeze-thawing procedure.	The aim of this study was to identify the detrimental effect of the freeze-thaw process on chromatin integrity and morphology of human spermatozoa, and to determine whether human sperm preservation medium (HSPM) or TEST-yolk buffer (TYB) offers a better protection to spermatozoa from cryodamage after the freeze-thaw procedure. Thirty-five semen samples obtained from couples childless because of male factor infertility (subfertile men, group 1) and 25 semen samples from healthy, normal volunteers of proven fertility (group 2) were included in the study. Each semen sample was divided into 2 parts, the first part was mixed with HSPM and the other with TYB (1:1), and frozen with a controlled slow-stage freezer, before plunging into liquid nitrogen. Twelve smears from each semen sample were made before (n = 4) and after (n = 8) the freeze-thaw process. Chromatin structure was evaluated after staining using the acridine orange (AO) test, whereas morphology was analyzed according to strict criteria. The mean percentage of spermatozoa that exhibited normal morphology and intact chromatin structure was decreased after freeze-thaw in all samples treated with HSPM or TYB in comparison with the value observed in the native semen samples of both groups. However, TYB preserved chromatin and morphology significantly better than HSPM did (9.3% +/- 5.6% and 88.7% +/- 11.2% vs. 7.8% +/- 4.2% and 85.5% +/- 12.5%, respectively). Therefore, TYB could be recommended as a first choice cryoprotectant for semen preservation in order to avoid extra chromatin structure damage and morphology alterations of spermatozoa not only for patients pursuing assisted reproduction, but also for donor samples.
Sperm motion characteristics of Garole rams raised for a prolonged period in a semi-arid tropical environment.	The Garole is a prolific but less well known and rare breed of small sheep found in the hot and humid Sunderban region of West Bengal. An ability to breed throughout the year and to graze in knee-deep water, resistance to foot rot and a strong mothering instinct are some of the special features of this breed. Garole rams could provide germplasm to incorporate prolificacy traits by artificial insemination of the nonprolific sheep breeds found in abundance in the semi-arid and arid tropical climates of India. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the semen production by Garole rams maintained in a semi-arid climate for three years and to objectively assess their semen quality by a computer-assisted sperm analysis technique. The donor rams were randomly selected each year from the original flock procured from their natural habitat or from the offspring born at the Institute farm. Semen was collected weekly for three weeks each autumn for three consecutive years from 8 rams each year. The overall means (SD) of the traits that did not differ significantly with age or year were volume, concentration, curvilinear velocity, average path velocity, amplitude of lateral head displacement, beat frequency, motility and the percentages of rapid motile sperms and of slow motile sperms. The age of the rams had a significant effect (p<0.05) on the straight-line velocity but this was not significantly affected by the length of exposure to the semi-arid climate. However, the age and year had significant effects (p<0.05) on linearity, straightness and the percentage of medium motile sperms. It was concluded that Garole rams are capable of producing good-quality semen even after a prolonged period of exposure to a semi-arid tropical climate.
Does the Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) adhesion sequence play a role in mediating sperm interaction with the human endosalpinx?	Sperm from several species, including the human, make direct contact with the endosalpinx. Although this is known to be beneficial to sperm function, the specific mechanisms mediating the adhesion are poorly understood.
Antifertility effects of fluphenazine in adult male rats.	The underlying mechanisms in human infertility associated with hyperprolactinemia have yet to be established. Hyperprolactinemia is a known side-effect of fluphenazine, a broad spectrum, long-acting phenothiazine known to be D2 dopamine receptor antagonist. Dose-related effects of fluphenazine decanoate were ascertained on the fertility of 60-day treated, adult male rats. Significant increase in the serum levels of prolactin and decrease in the levels of LH and FSH were seen at doses of 1-3 mg/kg/day. No effect was evident on the serum testosterone (T) and estradiol. The tissue levels of Inhibins were not affected. The weights of testes, epididymides, seminal vesicles, ventral prostate, adrenal and pituitary glands were not affected. Testicular histology showed sloughing indicating the sensitivity of this parameter to FSH deficiency. Mating occurred within 10 days of cohabitation in the control and 1-2 mg/kg/day treated groups but delayed in the 3 mg/kg/day treated group with a significant effect on potency. Implantation sites, litter size and fertility index were significantly reduced at 2-3 mg/kg/day doses of fluphenazine. No effects however were seen on sperm counts or motility whereas morphological changes were apparent in the acrosome. Chromatin decondensation in vitro was enhanced and sperm chromatin structure assay revealed DNA denaturation. Hypothalamic tyrosine hydroxylase levels were increased in 1-3 mg/kg/day dose range. Hyperprolactinemic males sired fewer pups as compared to controls. Hypothalamic tyrosine hydroxylase was upregulated at all the doses. The antifertility effects of fluphenazine-induced hyperprolactinemia appeared to be unrelated to testosterone (T). In addition, FSH decrease might have affected the intrinsic sperm quality and thereby reduced litter size.
Incidence of sperm-tail tyrosine phosphorylation and hyperactivated motility in normozoospermic and asthenozoospermic human sperm samples.	Our objective was to study the incidence of sperm-tail phosphotyrosine immunoreactivity in normozoospermic and asthenozoospermic human sperm samples, its association with sperm motion parameters, particularly hyperactivated motility, and its potential involvement in the pathogenesis of asthenozoospermia. The work was conducted as a prospective experimental study in the Sperm Biology and Andrology laboratories of the Jones Institute, a medical school-based fertility center. The study subjects were healthy fertile male donors (normozoospermic samples) and infertile patients (asthenozoospermic samples) attending the center. Recently ejaculated semen samples were washed twice to eliminate seminal plasma and a swim-up was performed to select the motile population which, in turn, was incubated up to 18 h at 37 degrees C in 3.5% human serum albumin-supplemented Ham's F10 to allow for capacitation. For evaluation, sperm aliquots were taken pre-swim-up (T0), immediately post swim-up (T1), at 6 h (T6), and 18 h (T18) of incubation. The main outcome measures were computer-analyzed sperm motion parameters and hyperactivated motility, and immunodetection of phosphotyrosine (PY)-containing proteins. During the capacitating incubation, normozoospermic samples displayed maximum motility, velocity, and hyperactivation at T6, significantly decreasing their values at T18. PY-proteins were located both at the tail and head of spermatozoa. Their expression increased progressively during the incubation, being present in about 70% of the sperm tails at T18. Asthenozoospermic samples showed an inability to respond to capacitation with an increase in motion parameters and PY-phosphorylation. At T6, both hyperactivation and PY-phosphorylation were significantly lower than in normal samples. Our results suggest that PY-phosphorylation of tail proteins is highly conspicuous in human spermatozoa, and increases its incidence in a time-dependent manner, as more sperm become capacitated. Asthenozoospermic samples displaying low percentages of motile sperm and altered motion characteristics showed a decreased incidence of PY-phosphorelated sperm. Tail protein PY-phosphorylation may be related to sperm movement, especially to hyperactivated motility and its deficiency may be associated to asthenozoospermia.
Outcome of intracytoplasmic sperm injection in relation to the meiotic pattern in patients with severe oligoasthenozoospermia.	The aim of the study was to evaluate the intracytoplasmic sperm injection outcome in a selected group of patients with oligoasthenozoospermia in relation to the results obtained from their meiotic analysis.
The mast cells in semen: their effects on sperm motility.	This study was conducted to evaluate any possible association between mast cells and sperm concentration, morphology, and motility. The study comprised 400 patients who had applied for semen analysis. To evaluate mast cells, 6 smear slides were prepared for each subject and stained with 1% toluidin blue-pyronine (pH 4). The slides revealing any mast cells were labeled as mast+. Concentration and motility was evaluated through a Makler chamber. Kruger's strict criteria were used in morphometric analysis. The mean age of 86 mast+ cases (21% of total patients) was 31+/-6.7; progressive sperm motility rate was 33+/-21.2. The mean concentration was 32+/-30.2 x 10(6)/mL, and normal sperm percentage was 11.8+/-6.5. Progressive sperm motility rate in the mast- cases were 53+/-25. The mean age of mast cell+ patients was higher than that of mast cell- patients (t=3.57, p<.001), while they had lower sperm concentration (p>.05) and lower normal morphologic sperm rate (t=2.26, p<.024), compared to mast cell- patients. The relation between mast cell+ and mast cell- cases and sperm progressive motility was statistically significant (t=6.44, p<.001). It was concluded that sperm parameters were negatively affected by mast cells.
Semen quality of smoking and non-smoking men in infertile couples in a Swedish population.	A study of semen quality, using conventional semen analysis, was undertaken. 186 male smokers were compared with 164 non-smoking men undergoing infertility investigation. The cigarette smokers were subdivided into three groups according to the number of cigarettes they smoked: less than 10 (n = 27), 10-19 (n = 84) and greater than 19 cigarettes per day (n = 75). No statistically significant effect of cigarette smoking on sperm density, motility or morphologic features of sperm was detected. Nor was any significant difference in sperm quality, except for semen volume and total sperm count, disclosed between men in the different smoking categories or between heavy smokers and non-smoking men. Thus, the present study does not corroborate reports of detrimental effects of cigarette smoking alone on sperm concentration, motility or morphology on the bases of this population of Swedish men in infertile couples.
Membrane attack complex (MAC)-mediated damage to spermatozoa: protection of the cells by the presence on their membranes of MAC inhibitory proteins.	Although antibody and complement are known to cause immobilization and killing of spermatozoa in vitro the components of the complement system mediating these effects remain undefined. Here we have examined the effects of the membrane attack complex (MAC) on spermatozoa and demonstrate that spermatotoxic effects are dependent on assembly of the complete MAC. We subsequently examined the presence and functional significance of the complement regulatory proteins decay accelerating factor (DAF), MAC-inhibiting protein (MIP) and CD59 antigen on spermatozoa. Both DAF and CD59 antigen were present on the membranes of these cells. Neutralization of CD59 antigen with specific antibodies increased the susceptibility of the cells to MAC-mediated damage, suggesting a role for this molecule in the protection of spermatozoa from complement-mediated damage in the female reproductive tract.
The use of comet assay to assess DNA integrity of boar spermatozoa following liquid preservation at 5 degrees C and 16 degrees C.	The comet assay, under neutral conditions, allows the assessment of DNA integrity influenced by sperm ageing, which is manifested in DNA double-strand breaks. Here, we attempted to use a modified neutral comet assay test (single-cell gel electrophoresis), to our knowledge for the first time, to assess DNA integrity of boar spermatozoa during liquid storage for 96 h at 5 degrees C and 16 degrees C. In this comet assay protocol we used 2% beta-mercaptoethanol prior to the lysis procedure, to aid in removing nuclear proteins. Ejaculates from 3 boars (designated A, C and G) were diluted with a standard semen extender, Kortowo-3 (K-3), which was supplemented with lipoprotein fractions extracted from hen egg yolk (LPFh) or ostrich egg yolk (LPFo). Irrespective of the extender type, the percentage of comet-detected spermatozoa with damaged DNA increased gradually during prolonged storage at 5 degrees C and 16 degrees C. Spermatozoa stored in K-3 extender exhibited elevated levels of DNA damage at both storage temperatures. Significant differences in DNA damage among the boars were more pronounced during storage in LPF-based extenders at 5 degrees C: spermatozoa of boars A and G were less susceptible to DNA damage. The percent of tail DNA in comets was lower in LPF-based extenders, and there were individual variations among the boars. We observed that changes in DNA integrity were dependent on the extender type and storage temperature. A higher level of DNA instability was observed in K-3 extended semen compared with K-3/LPFh or K-3/LPFo extended semen during storage at 5 degrees C. No significant difference in the level of DNA damage between K-3/LPFh and K-3/LPFo was observed. It seems that a long-term storage can affect genomic integrity of boar spermatozoa. The modified neutral comet assay can be used to detect low levels of DNA damage in boar spermatozoa during liquid preservation. Therefore, screening for sperm DNA damage may be used as an additional test of sperm function that can have diagnostic value in practice.
Ligands and receptors mediating signal transduction in sea urchin spermatozoa.	Sea urchins have long been a model system for the study of fertilization. Much has been learned about how sea urchin sperm locate and fertilize the egg. Sperm and eggs are spawned simultaneously into the surrounding seawater. Sperm signaling pathways lead to downstream events that ensure fertilization. Upon spawning, sperm must acquire motility and then they must swim towards or respond to the egg in some way. Finally, they must undergo a terminal exocytotic event known as the acrosome reaction that allows the sperm to bind to the vitelline layer of the egg and then to fuse with the egg plasma membrane. Motility is stimulated by exposure to seawater, while later events are orchestrated by factors from the egg. The sperm signaling pathways are exquisitely tuned to bring the sperm to the egg, bind, and fuse the two cells as quickly as possible.
Changes in sperm glycogen synthase kinase-3 serine phosphorylation and activity accompany motility initiation and stimulation.	Sperm motility is regulated by protein phosphorylation. We have shown that the signaling kinase, glycogen synthase kinase-3 alpha (GSK-3 alpha), is present in spermatozoa. In somatic cells, GSK-3 is regulated by serine and tyrosine phosphorylation. In this report, we document that both GSK-3 alpha and GSK-beta isoforms are present in spermatozoa, with GSK-3 alpha being the predominant isoform. The relationship between GSK-3 serine phosphorylation and motility was investigated. Serine phosphorylation of GSK-3 increases significantly in spermatozoa during their passage through the epididymis. Initiation and stimulation of motility in vitro by isobutyl-methyl-xanthine, 2-chloro-2'-deoxy-adenosine, and calyculin A lead to a dramatic increase in GSK-3 serine phosphorylation. The concentration-dependent induction of motility by calyculin A is closely associated with GSK-3 serine phosphorylation. Immunoprecipitation of GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3 beta shows that both of the GSK-3 isoforms are more active in caput than in caudal spermatozoa. Calyculin A treatment decreased the activity of both isoforms. Column chromatography was used to purify inactive GSK-3 alpha from the caudal sperm extracts. This GSK-3 alpha species was phosphorylated at amino acid residues serine 21 and tyrosine 214. Inactive GSK-3 alpha is present in caudal but not in caput epididymal spermatozoa. The enzymes protein kinase B (PKB; also known as cAkt) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-kinase), the upstream signaling proteins involved in GSK-3 phosphorylation, are both present in spermatozoa. Fluorescence immunocytochemistry showed that GSK-3 is present in the head and tail regions of sperm. Our work suggests a novel role for the signaling system involving GSK-3 in the regulation of sperm motility.
Comparing the clinical outcomes of intrauterine insemination by two different density gradient preparation methods.	Sperm preparation has play an integral part in the success of in-vitro fertilization. The aim of this study was to compare 2 different density gradient preparations for sperm separation in respect to sperm recovery, motility, motion parameters and clinical outcome after intrauterine insemination.
The influence of centrifugation on quality and freezability of stallion semen]	The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of various centrifugation methods on sperm loss and quality of frozen-thawed semen. From at a total of 8 Warmblood stallions of the National Stud Farm in Avenches, 3 ejaculates each were collected and seminal plasma was removed using 3 different centrifugation regimes. In method I (reference method) centrifugation occurred by a speed of 600 x g during 10 minutes. In method II 1000 x g was used during 2 minutes while in method III centrifugation was performed by 2000 x g during 2 minutes. After centrifugation 90%, of the supernatant was removed and sperm loss calculated. After resuspension of the pellet with freezing medium, functional membrane integrity was evaluated by HOS-test and motility determined. In frozen-thawed semen motility, viability as well as functional membrane integrity (HOS-test) and acrosome status using chlortetracyclinassay (CTA) were assessed. Our results demonstrate that mean sperm loss (I, 1.9%; II, 8.7%; III, 3.7%) was significantly (P < 0.05) different between the three centrifugation regimes. Regarding semen quality of frozen-thawed semen, HOS in method III (52.1%) was significantly lower than in methods I (55.5%) and II (55.3%). Evaluation of the acrosome status by CTA showed that more than 70% of sperm cells were capacitated and 25% capacitated and acrosome reacted. From our results we conclude that sperm loss and functional membrane integrity (HOS-test) in frozen-thawed semen were significantly influenced by the centrifugation regime. Therefore, stallion semen should be centrifuged at 600 x g during 10 minutes before freezing in order to obtain low sperm loss and a good quality of frozen-thawed semen.
Effects of acid sphingomyelinase deficiency on male germ cell development and programmed cell death.	Deficiency of acid sphingomyelinase (ASM), an enzyme responsible for producing a pro-apoptotic second messenger ceramide, has previously been shown to promote the survival of fetal mouse oocytes in vivo and to protect oocytes from chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in vitro. Here we investigated the effects of ASM deficiency on testicular germ cell development and on the ability of germ cells to undergo apoptosis. At the age of 20 weeks, ASM knock-out (ASMKO) sperm concentrations were comparable with wild-type (WT) sperm concentrations, whereas sperm motility was seriously affected. ASMKO testes contained significantly elevated levels of sphingomyelin at the age of 8 weeks as detected by high-performance, thin-layer chromatography. Electron microscopy revealed that the testes started to accumulate pathological vesicles in Sertoli cells and in the interstitium at the age of 21 days. Irradiation of WT and ASMKO mice did not elevate intratesticular ceramide levels at 16 h after irradiation. In situ end labeling of apoptotic cells also showed a similar degree of cell death in both groups. After a 21-day recovery period, the numbers of primary spermatocytes and spermatogonia at G2 as well as spermatids were essentially the same in the WT and ASMKO testes, as detected by flow cytometry. In serum-free cultures both ASMKO and WT germ cells showed a significant increase in the level of ceramide, as well as massive apoptosis. In conclusion, ASM is required for maintenance of normal sphingomyelin levels in the testis and for normal sperm motility, but not for testicular ceramide production or for the ability of the germ cells to undergo apoptosis.
Sperm subpopulations in Iberian red deer epididymal sperm and their changes through the cryopreservation process.	We have applied a statistical protocol based on principal component analysis, clustering methods, and discriminant analysis for the identification of sperm subpopulations in computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) data. Samples were obtained from the cauda epididymis of 11 Iberian red deer and cryopreserved following a standard protocol. Motility by CASA was analyzed just after sperm recovery, just before freezing, and after thawing, and eight motility descriptors for each individual spermatozoon were recorded. Sperm viability and acrosomal status were also assessed. Subpopulation analysis was performed in four sequential steps: principal component analysis using the eight motility descriptors; nonhierarchical clustering analysis (k-means) using the first two principal components; hierarchical clustering analysis (UPGMA); and selection of the final number of clusters. Three clusters were obtained for each motility analysis: slow and nonlinear; rapid and linear; and rapid, high ALH, nonlinear. We detected variations in the clusters between treatments (initial, prefreezing and postthawed). Indeed, motility increased and linearity decreased in the prefreezing analysis. A discriminant analysis isolated three descriptors that were used again in the same statistical analysis, giving four clusters that resembled the pattern found in the first classification. We also performed a clustering analysis of the males according to prefreezing/postthawed variation of total motility, viability, and acrosomal status. The proportion of the linear subpopulations in the prefreezing treatment, in both clustering analyses, correlated positively with postthawed viability recovery. Our results show that clustering analysis of CASA data gives useful and practical information that is not obtained by conventional sperm analysis.
Basal sliding and the mechanics of oscillation in a mammalian sperm flagellum.	The mechanism of oscillation in cilia and flagella has been a long-standing mystery. This article raises the possibility of a mechanical explanation based on new findings relating to where in the flagellum microtubule sliding can occur--and where it cannot occur. All theoretical analyses of flagellar bending have until now made the assumption that sliding displacements at the base of the flagellum cannot occur. One consequence of this has been the need to accept that sliding must be transmitted through propagating bends, an idea that has been tolerated even though it becomes paradoxical if bends are the result of resistance to sliding. Our observations, of spermatozoa from the chinchilla, have led us to a contradictory view. We have shown directly, by light microscopy and by two methods of electron microscopy, that basal sliding does occur. Also, evidence from video microscopy indicates that a propagating bend cannot transmit sliding through it. We have analyzed a movement pattern in which the beat frequency increases fourfold in a phasic manner. Our analysis of this suggests that new bends terminate when no further sliding is possible. At this point the bend direction immediately reverses. That is, the flagellar beat frequency increases when there is a limitation to sliding. One can see directly the alternation in basal sliding direction under these circumstances. This suggests a mechanism for the initiation of a new bend in the opposite direction to the bend just completed: we propose that the initiating trigger is the reversal of elastic deformations at the base, which reverses the direction of interdoublet sliding.
Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase-S, a sperm-specific glycolytic enzyme, is required for sperm motility and male fertility.	Although glycolysis is highly conserved, it is remarkable that several unique isozymes in this central metabolic pathway are found in mammalian sperm. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase-S (GAPDS) is the product of a mouse gene expressed only during spermatogenesis and, like its human ortholog (GAPD2), is the sole GAPDH isozyme in sperm. It is tightly bound to the fibrous sheath, a cytoskeletal structure that extends most of the length of the sperm flagellum. We disrupted Gapds expression by gene targeting to selectively block sperm glycolysis and assess its relative importance for in vivo sperm function. Gapds(-/-) males were infertile and had profound defects in sperm motility, exhibiting sluggish movement without forward progression. Although mitochondrial oxygen consumption was unchanged, sperm from Gapds(-/-) mice had ATP levels that were only 10.4% of those in sperm from WT mice. These results imply that most of the energy required for sperm motility is generated by glycolysis rather than oxidative phosphorylation. Furthermore, the critical role of glycolysis in sperm and its dependence on this sperm-specific enzyme suggest that GAPDS is a potential contraceptive target, and that mutations or environmental agents that disrupt its activity could lead to male infertility.
Protein phosphatase-type 2B is involved in the regulation of the acrosome reaction but not in the temperature-dependent flagellar movement of fowl spermatozoa.	The motility and acrosomal integrity of fowl spermatozoa in TES/NaCl buffer, with or without homogenized inner perivitelline layers (IPVL) prepared from laid fowl eggs, was almost negligible at 40 degrees C. However, motility became vigorous even at 40 degrees C when 2 mmol CaCl2/l was added, and the acrosome reaction was also stimulated in the presence, but not in the absence, of IPVL. The presence of deltamethrin or fenvalerate, specific inhibitors of protein phosphatase-type 2B (PP2B), did not permit the restoration of motility at 40 degrees C but, in the presence of IPVL, these compounds stimulated the acrosome reaction in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 1-1000 nmol/l. These results suggest that IPVL is necessary for the activation of the acrosome reaction in fowl spermatozoa and that Ca2+ plays an important role in the stimulation of motility and acrosomal exocytosis. Furthermore, it appears that the intracellular molecular mechanisms for the regulation of the acrosome reaction of fowl spermatozoa are different from those for the restoration of motility, i.e. protein dephosphorylation by PP2B in the former but not in the latter case.
Spermatozoa motility in the Persian sturgeon, Acipenser persicus: effects of pH, dilution rate, ions and osmolality.	Sperm motility is a prerequisite factor determining semen quality and fertilizing capacity. The effects of environmental factors including pH, cations and osmolality as well as the role of dilution rate on sperm motility parameters in Acipenser persicus were studied. The best pH and dilution rate for activation of spermatozoa were pH 8.0 and dilution ratio 1:50. Ionic factors can stimulate the initiation of sperm activation. The maximum percentage of motile sperm and total duration of sperm motility were observed in solutions containing 25 mM NaCl, 0.2 mM KCl, 3 mM CaSO4, 10 mM MgSO4 and sucrose with an osmolality of 50 mosmol kg(-1). The present study provides us with some basic knowledge about sturgeon spermatozoa biosensitivity to ionic and osmolality effects. A sensitivity of A. persicus sperm was observed after induction of activation of sperm motility in solution containing cations or sucrose with high osmolality. Concentrations more than 50 mM Na+, more than 1 mM K+, more than 3 mM Ca2+ and more than 10 mM Mg2+ had negative effects on sperm motility. Also, osmolality more than 100 mosmol kg(-1) had an inhibitory effect. It is clear that ions and osmolality stimulate the motility of spermatozoa by changes in the properties of the plasma membrane including its potential and its ionic conductance. The inhibitory role of high osmolality of the swimming medium (more than 100 mosmol kg(-1)) and insufficient osmolality of the seminal plasma to inhibit semen motility suggested that osmolality is not the principal factor preventing sperm motility in seminal fluid but that K+ is a major inhibitory factor of sperm motility in seminal plasma.
Fertilization of IVF/ICSI using sibling oocytes from couples with subfertile male or unexplained infertility.	The significance of the performance of conventional in vitro fertilization and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (IVF/ICSI) using sibling oocytes from couples with subfertile male or unexplained infertility was evaluated. A total of 410 sibling oocyte cumulus-corona complexes (OCCC) from 21 couples with subfertile male (group A) and 11 unexplained infertile couples (group B) were randomly divided, in order of retrieval, into two groups inseminated either by conventional IVF or by ICSI. The treatment outcomes and the influence of infertility factors on fertilization in each group were compared. The results showed that although the two pronuclear (2PN) fertilization rate per injected sibling oocytes was significantly higher after ICSI (group A: 68.2% +/- 28.8%; group B: 66.2% +/- 24.9%) than after conventional IVF (group A: 41.8% +/- 32.7%; group B: 40.1% +/- 22.1%), the other variables studied included: the fertilization rates of per allocated sibling oocytes IVF/ICSI, the fertilization rates of sibling oocytes IVF/ICSI after excluding failed IVF fertilization cycles, as well as the cleavage rates of normal fertilization were not statistically significant (P>0.05). Similarly, though the total fertilization failure rate in the IVF group (group A: 42.9%; group B: 36.4%) was significantly higher than in the ICSI group (group A: 4.8%; group B: 0), we did not cancel cycles due to the normal fertilization of sibling oocytes. Embryo transfer was possible in all 32 couples. There were 10 clinical pregnancies in the two groups. We also discovered a possible association between some semen parameters and sperm functions of group A, and women age and duration of infertility of group B and fertilization. It is suggested that adoption of the split IVF/ICSI technology in the above cases may help eliminate fertilization failures. This is also a useful method to investigate the effect of single factor on the employment of assisted reproductive technology.
Contribution of the secretory material of caecilian (amphibia: Gymnophiona) male Mullerian gland to motility of sperm: a study in Uraeotyphlus narayani.	Caecilians are a unique group of limbless burrowing amphibians with discontinuous distribution. Several caecilian species are viviparous, and all practice internal fertilization. In amniotic vertebrates the sperm undergo post-testicular physiological maturation when they are initiated into motility under the influence of an epididymal secretion. Further, during ejaculation mammalian sperm are suspended in a fluid secreted by the male accessory sex glands, viz., prostate gland and seminal vesicles. Caecilians lack comparable glands, but still practice internal fertilization. Uniquely, male caecilians retain the Mullerian ducts in the adults as a pair of functional glands. It has long been hypothesized, based on indirect evidence, that the Mullerian gland would be a male accessory sex gland, secreting a fluid in which sperm are suspended during ejaculation and which would also provide nutritional support to the ejaculated sperm. In the present study, the secretory material of the Mullerian gland of Uraeotyphlus narayani was mixed with sperm obtained from the testis, and the changes in motility were recorded. Uraeotyphlus narayani sperm possess a perforatorium of the acrosome proceeding deep into the endonuclear canal of the nucleus. The midpiece is characterized by closely applied centrioles, the anterior ends of the axoneme and axial fiber, and a mitochondrial sheath. The long tail has an undulating membrane on one side, supported by the axoneme and an axial fiber. The live sperm possess a mitochondrial vesicle, also known as the cytoplasmic droplet, anywhere along the head and the midpiece, as in anuran sperm, which is shed from sperm that have ceased motility. Uraeotyphlus narayani sperm are motile the moment they are released directly from the testis, indicating that the sperm do not require post-testicular physiological maturation. On being mixed with the secretory material of the Mullerian gland, the spermatozoa are enhanced in speed as well as duration of motility. Therefore, the caecilian male Mullerian gland is considered to be the male accessory sex gland.
Relationship between sperm viability as determined by flow cytometry and nonreturn rate of dairy bulls.	A newly developed flow cytometric method for determination of sperm concentration and viability was tested in an insemination trial with cryopreserved bull sperm to establish the relationship between sperm viability and nonreturn rates. Semen for experimental inseminations was produced from 157 young sires (114 Holstein and 43 Jersey), each contributing 4 experimental semen collections. Straws containing approximately 15 x 10(6) motile sperm before freezing were used in 118,680 experimental inseminations performed by 254 artificial insemination technicians in 6352 Danish herds. Statistical analysis based on 44,946 experimental first inseminations showed that the major part (95.4%) of variation in the 56-day nonreturn rate (NRR56) was residual. Only 0.38% of the total variation in NRR56 was due to bulls and differences between ejaculate within bull. However, bulls were preselected, and a relatively high insemination dose was used. Correlations between sperm viability as assessed by flow cytometry and NRR56 was slightly lower than observed for microscopic assessment of sperm motility. However, flow cytometry makes it possible to achieve an objective and precise determination of sperm viability. It was therefore possible to calculate the effect on NRR56 provided selection of semen is based on the flow cytometric method. Three freezing extenders were used in this experiment, but a significant difference in NRR56 was not observed. Flow cytometric results for 1 extender (Biociphos Plus) indicated poorer sperm survival during postthaw incubation compared with Triladyl extender with whole and with clarified egg yolk.
Motility, ATP levels and metabolic enzyme activity of sperm from bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus).	Male bluegill displays one of two life history tactics. Some males (termed "parentals") delay reproduction until ca. 7 years of age, at which time they build nests and actively courts females. Others mature precociously (sneakers) and obtain fertilizations by cuckolding parental males. In the current study, we studied the relations among sperm motility, ATP levels, and metabolic enzyme activity in parental and sneaker bluegill. In both reproductive tactics, sperm swimming speed and ATP levels declined in parallel over the first 60 s of motility. Although sneaker sperm initially had higher ATP levels than parental sperm, by approximately 30 s postactivation, no differences existed between tactics. No differences were noted between tactics in swimming speed, percent motility, or the activities of key metabolic enzymes, although sperm from parentals had a higher ratio of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) to citrate synthase (CS). In both tactics, with increasing CPK and CS activity, sperm ATP levels increased at 20 s postactivation, suggesting that capacities for phosphocreatine hydrolysis and aerobic metabolism may influence interindividual variation in rates of ATP depletion. Nonetheless, there was no relation between sperm ATP levels and either swimming speed or percent of sperm that were motile. This suggests that interindividual variation in ATP levels may not be the primary determinant of variation in sperm swimming performance in bluegill.
Improved properties of systems for computer-assisted motility analysis]	For a number of years, computer-assisted methods have been employed for the motility analysis of spermatozoa. In addition to a number of advantages, such as short processing time and good reproducibility, they have certain shortcomings in the recognition and tracking of spermatozoa at high densities. For example, sperm cells and contaminating particles of the same size cannot be distinguished. The tracking of crossing sperm cell trajectories is also a problem. For this reason, procedures that are free from such shortcomings have been introduced. Their application leads to an improvement in the performance of computer-assisted semen analysis methods.
Relationship between total superoxide dismutase activity with lipid peroxidation, dynamics and morphological parameters in canine semen.	There is a lack of information regarding biochemical studies on canine semen. The knowledge of canine sperm metabolism is important because this species has differences in fertility among males, but biochemical studies are not well developed in this species. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are active molecules produced during the oxygen reduction that have been implicated in several deleterious effects on the function and viability of spermatozoa when they are produced at high concentrations. Peroxidation of the plasma membrane phospholipids leads to a loss of motility, viability, and cytosolic elements, metabolic changes and structural alterations in spermatozoa. The most important antioxidant enzyme involved in ROS detoxification in mammalian spermatozoa is superoxide dismutase (SOD). The aims of the present study were to determine the presence of SOD-like activity in different fractions of canine semen, and to determine the relationship between SOD-like activity and different morphological, dynamical and biochemical parameters in canine spermatozoa. We demonstrated the presence of SOD-like activity in canine seminal plasma and spermatozoa; the negative correlation between SOD-like activity and lipid peroxidation concentrations in spermatozoa suggests a protective effect of this enzymatic activity against the potential oxidative stress in canine spermatozoa. A significant negative correlation between percentage of abnormal spermatozoa, and the percentage of progressive motility or vigor was found. Abnormal spermatozoa not only showed a deformed shape, moreover there was an energetic motility system failure. The presence of SOD-like activity in seminal plasma, spermatic, and postspermatic fractions of canine semen was demonstrated for the first time.
Controlling the swimming speed of human sperm by varying the incubation temperature and its effect on cervical mucus penetration.	The objective of the present experiments was to study the effect of sperm velocity as a single variable on the ability of sperm to penetrate cervical mucus in a modified Kremer test. Sperm incubated at 13, 22 and 37 degrees C exhibited progressive velocities of 25 +/- 1.7, 40 +/- 2.1 and 56 +/- 2.1 microns sec-1 (mean +/- SEM, n = 6) respectively, but the percentage of progressively motile sperm, their lateral head displacement and the viscoelastic properties of cervical mucus remained comparatively unchanged over this temperature range. The number of sperm which penetrated the mucus and the percentage of successful collisions were correlated strongly with the average velocity of the sperm population (r = 0.82 and r = 0.72 respectively). It is concluded that sperm velocity has an important influence on the penetration of cervical mucus because it governs the frequency of collisions with the mucus interface and is determined by the thrust generated by the flagellum which also determines the ability of the sperm to traverse the mucus interface.
Effect of reactive oxygen species produced by spermatozoa and leukocytes on sperm functions in non-leukocytospermic patients.	To investigate whether there is an impact of different sources of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on sperm functions.
Molecular physiology and pathology of Ca2+-conducting channels in the plasma membrane of mammalian sperm.	Current evidence indicates that mechanisms controlling the intracellular Ca2+ concentration play pivotal roles in determining sperm fertilizing ability. Multiple Ca2+-permeable channels have been identified and characterized in the plasma membrane and in the acrosome membrane of mammalian sperm. This review summarizes the recent findings and assesses the evidence suggesting that these channels play roles in controlling a host of sperm functions ranging from motility to the acrosome reaction, and describes recent advances in the identification of the underlying gene defects of inherited sperm Ca2+ channelopathies.
Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase modifies boar sperm motion parameters.	Motility is the most widely used indicator of sperm quality. Besides modulation by the cAMP pathway little is known regarding the intracellular pathways that regulate boar sperm motility. Recently the role of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) in the regulation of human sperm motility has been described. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the role of PI3-K in boar sperm kinematics by using the specific PI3-K inhibitor, LY294002. Boar sperm was incubated up to 1 h in non-capacitating medium in the presence or absence of the cAMP analog, 8Br-cAMP or the PI3-K inhibitor, LY294002 or both. Boar sperm incubated in capacitating medium was treated in the presence or absence of LY294002. First, we have clearly identified that PI3-K is present in whole lysates of boar spermatozoa. Inhibition of PI3-K significantly increased boar sperm straight-line velocity, circular velocity and average velocity without an effect on the percentage of progressively motile spermatozoa in both media. Inhibition of PI3-K induced the same effects on boar sperm velocities as activation of the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) pathway and treatment with the PI3-K inhibitor, LY294002 had neither summatory nor synergic effects on boar sperm motion parameters when treated simultaneously with the cAMP analog 8Br-cAMP. Our data suggest that PI3-K plays a negative role, regulating boar sperm motion parameters through a possible inhibition of the cAMP/PKA activating pathway, and since some Computer Aided Sperm Analysis (CASA)-derived parameters have been related to field fertility our results point to the possibility of modulating sperm motile quality by modifying the PI3-K cellular pathway.
Serine protease activity, bovine sperm protease, 66 kDa (BSp66), is present in hamster sperm and is involved in sperm-zona interaction.	Bovine sperm protease, 66 kDa (BSp66) is a serine protease previously characterized in bovine spermatozoa. Like other proteases, it may be present in sperm from other mammalian species different from bovine, playing a role in the fertilization process. In this study, we looked for BSp66 in hamster spermatozoa using heterologous antibodies against bovine BSp66. An immunoreactive protein was detected by Western blotting in mature and immature sperm. The detected protein had two isoforms similar to the ones reported in bovine sperm. Furthermore, indirect immune detection by fluorescence and electron microscopy assays, showed BSp66 signal at the acrosomal region similar to bovine sperm. As it was determined in bovine sperm, the acrosomal reaction displays the antigen within the acrosomal content. When live hamster sperm was incubated with polyclonal antibody against bovine BSp66 a decrease in the number of sperm bound to zona pellucida in homologous IVF and an impairment of head-head agglutination, were observed. These results suggest that a protease homologous to bovine BSp66 is present in golden hamster spermatozoa, with a conserved molecular mass and cellular location. Moreover, hamster BSp66 is probably involved in zona pellucida recognition.
Hyperactivation enhances mouse sperm capacity for penetrating viscoelastic media.	A movement pattern known as hyperactivation has been observed among sperm recovered from the periovulatory oviduct of several species. In culture medium, hyperactivated sperm swim in a pattern that is far less progressive than that of freshly ejaculated sperm. In the oviduct, sperm encounter highly viscoelastic substances, such as mucus and the cumulus matrix. We have previously reported that hyperactivated hamster sperm become more progressive in vitro when the viscosity of medium is increased. In the present study, we tested the effect of increasing the viscosity and viscoelasticity of the medium on the swimming progressiveness of mouse sperm. Caudal epididymal sperm were incubated in a medium that produced hyperactivated motility in 60 min. Swimming velocities of sperm incubated for 60 min were compared with those of fresh sperm after addition of one of the following to culture medium: solutions of 1.8% methylcellulose (high viscosity), 1.8% long chain polyacrylamide (high viscoelasticity), or culture medium alone (low viscosity). In culture medium, hyperactivated sperm had significantly lower mean straight-line velocities than fresh sperm (p = 0.004); this difference disappeared in methylcellulose (p = 0.085) and was reversed in polyacrylamide (p = 0.004). This and other velocity measurements indicated that hyperactivated mouse sperm penetrate viscoelastic media more efficiently than fresh sperm and therefore may be more efficient at penetrating oviductal mucus and cumulus matrix in vivo.
Effects of human oviductal in vitro secretion on spermatozoa and search of sperm-oviductal proteins interactions.	It has been suggested that oviductal proteins could be involved in modulating sperm function and fertilizing ability through as yet not well-known mechanisms. The objective of the study was to investigate the pattern of proteins secreted by human oviductal tissue cultures and the effects of their conditioned media (CM) on sperm function under capacitating conditions and in phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In addition, interactions between spermatozoa and oviductal proteins were examined. The oviductal tissue was obtained from pre-menopausal patients scheduled for hysterectomies because of uterine fibromyoma. Normozoospermic semen samples were obtained from healthy donors. Cultures of human fallopian tissue were carried out and CM were collected for analysis of the de novo production of [35S]-methionine-labelled proteins by SDS-PAGE. Motile spermatozoa were incubated under capacitating conditions and in PBS, with or without CM, and sperm fertilizing ability was assessed by ionophore-induced acrosome reaction (AR) and the acrosome reaction to ionophore challenge (ARIC) score. The ionophore-induced AR was evaluated by the Pisum sativum technique. Sixteen de novo produced proteins were detected in CM. One of these proteins (molecular weight 79 kDa) was detected in extracts from spermatozoa pre-incubated with CM. Sperm survival and motility were maintained in the presence of CM, although results showed a significant decrease in ARIC score (p < 0.05), with respect to controls. The presence of CM significantly decreased sperm fertilizing ability, without affecting sperm survival. These results suggest that the oviductal secretion could contribute to preserve sperm viability and motility, and to prevent a premature response of spermatozoa to AR inducers.
Effect of alpha-tocopherol and tocopherol succinate on lipid peroxidation in equine spermatozoa.	The objective of this study was to compare the effect of alpha-tocopherol and its ester, alpha tocopherol succinate, on lipid peroxidation and motility of equine spermatozoa. In experiment one, spermatozoa were incubated with dl-alpha-tocopherol (5, 25, 100 or 500 microM), DL-alpha tocopherol succinate (5, 25, 100 or 500 microM) or vehicle (0.5% ethanol) at 38 degrees C, and sperm motility was determined at 30, 60 and 120 min. In experiment two, spermatozoa loaded with the lipophilic probe, C11BODIPY(581/591), were incubated with dl-alpha-tocopherol (50 and 100 microM), DL-alpha-tocopherol succinate (50 and 100 microM) or ethanol (0.5%) and with the promoters cumene hydroperoxide, Fe2SO4, and ascorbate at 38 degrees C in 5% CO2. Lipid peroxidation was determined by changes in fluorescence of C11BODIPY(581/591), and motility was determined by CASA at 0, 15, 30 and 60 min. In experiment three, spermatozoa loaded with C11BODIPY(581/591) were incubated with dl-alpha-tocopherol (5, 25, 100 or 500 microM), DL-alpha-tocopherol succinate (5, 25, 100 or 500 microM) or ethanol (0.5%) at 38 degrees C and then submitted to a 4-hour incubation at room temperature. Motility and lipid peroxidation were determined at 1 and 4 h. In experiment four, the effect of DL alpha tocopherol (5, 25 or 500 microM), DL-alpha-tocopherol succinate (5, 25 or 500 microM) or ethanol (0.5%) on lipid peroxidation and motility were evaluated during storage at 5 degrees C in a skim-milk based extender. Although dl-alpha-tocopherol succinate appeared more effective than DL-alpha-tocopherol in preventing lipid peroxidation during short-term incubations, the succinate ester suppressed sperm motility compared to dl-alpha-tocopherol alone.
The relation of computer-based measures of sperm morphology and motility to male infertility.	We investigated the relation between various sperm characteristics, including morphometric parameters, and impaired fertility among 596 men who participated in a national study. Semen was collected and processed by using a standardized protocol, and sperm measurements were made using a computer-aided sperm analysis instrument. We defined infertility in two ways: (1) the inability to father a child after trying for a year or longer, and (2) the number of children fathered. We found that all measures of sperm motion were decreased among men with impaired fertility. After adjustment for the other motion parameters and various potential confounders, however, only the percentage of progressive cells was associated with infertility. One morphometric parameter, the mean length/width ratio, was consistently associated with both measures of infertility, even after adjustment for potential covariates. This measure was also strongly associated with infertility among various subgroups defined by poor sperm concentration, motility, and morphology. The sperm length/width ratio appears to be an important correlate of infertility in males.
Hyperactivated sperm progress in the mouse oviduct.	Sperm from naturally mated mice were observed and videotaped moving within mouse oviducts. The typical pattern of sperm progress involved intermittently breaking free and swimming a short distance, then reattaching to the epithelium. The proportion of sperm that swam freely (were not attached to the epithelium) was calculated and analyzed for effects of oviductal region, ovulation status, and sperm location relative to the lumen. A significantly higher proportion of sperm were free in the ampulla than in the isthmus (26.3% +/- 0.8% vs. 11.8% +/- 1.0%; p less than 0.0001) and in post-ovulatory than pre-ovulatory (16.2% +/- 2.0% vs. 10.6% +/- 1.6%; p less than 0.05) oviducts. Flagellar curvature ratio values showed that free sperm (0.716 +/- 0.024) had more sharply curved tails than stuck sperm (0.782 +/- 0.013). While this difference is significant (p = 0.01), the effect of attachment status interacted significantly (p less than 0.05) with the oviductal region such that there was a greater difference in the isthmus than in the ampulla. Only sperm using the more curved tail beats of hyperactivation were seen to break free from the epithelium and to progress along the oviduct. These results indicate that hyperactivation plays a role in moving sperm out of the isthmic reservoir and to the site of fertilization.
Evaluation of gilthead sea bream, Sparus aurata, sperm quality after cryopreservation in 5 ml macrotubes.	Cryopreservation produces several types of damage in spermatozoa, leading to fertility impairment. The reduction arises both from a lower viability post-thaw and from sublethal dysfunctions in some of the surviving cells. In the present study, we have analysed the effect of cryopreservation in 5 ml macrotubes on the quality of post-thawed gilthead sea bream sperm. Several standard sperm quality parameters were determined: pH and osmolarity of seminal plasma, sperm concentration, and motility. An exhaustive determination of sperm quality before and after cryopreservation was investigated. Several parameters related with spermatozoal status were determined: ATP content, plasma membrane integrity and functionality, mitochondrial functionality, and sperm fertility. Our results demonstrated that gilthead sea bream spermatozoa suffer several types of damage after freezing/thawing. The percentage of viable cells slightly decreased after cryopreservation, however plasma membrane was affected by cryopreservation, since cells could not resist the hyperosmotic shock. Mitochondrial status was affected by cryopreservation since there was a decrease in the parameters of sperm motility, ATP content (3.17 nmol ATP/10(5) spermatozoa to 1.7 nmol ATP/10(5) spermatozoa in 1:20 frozen samples) and an increase of the percentage of cells with mitochondrial depolarized membranes (11% for fresh and 27% for 1:20 frozen samples). Fertility rate was similar either using fresh or frozen/thawed sperm (77 and 75% hatched larvae, respectively).
Maturation and regulation of the motility of spermatozoa in the epididymis of the tammar wallaby (Macropus eugenii).	Demembranated spermatozoa from the rete testis developed vigorous flagellation when reactivated with ATP, but showed no forward progression such as that seen in samples from the cauda epididymidis. The proportion of spermatozoa that were reactivated was smaller for samples from the rete testis than from the cauda epididymidis. Studies in vitro of undiluted micropuncture samples from the epididymis indicated that the activity of spermatozoa is suppressed as they develop the capacity for motility. However, as spermatozoa spontaneously became activated during the collection or subsequent incubation of undiluted samples, it was concluded that the suppressive action is labile. The activity of spermatozoa in vitro was examined in diluted samples from the cauda epididymidis. A concentration of 2.5 mmol extracellular calcium/l was better than lower concentrations. Diluents at pH 5.5 completely inhibited sperm motility when they contained 20 mmol lactate/l (but not glutamate) and the effect was reversed by readjusting the diluent to pH 7.4. However, lactate was not considered to suppress sperm motility in situ, as the plasma from the cauda epididymidis contained only 2.7 +/- 0.5 mmol lactate/l. There was no effect of sodium concentration (1 and 115 mmol/l), pH (5.5 and 7.4) or amiloride (0 and 1 mmol/l) on sperm motility, indicating that motility is not dependent on the concentration of sodium above 1 mmol/l or on a sodium-proton exchange system. The relative viscosity of plasma from the cauda epididymidis did not affect the motility of spermatozoa.
A comparison of critical osmolality and hydraulic conductivity and its activation energy in fowl and bull spermatozoa.	Measurements were made of critical osmolality, the osmolality at which 50% of the cells are lysed, and of the permeation time, the time taken to lyse 50% of the cells in an osmotic solution lower than the critical osmolality, for fowl and bull spermatozoa. Cell lysis was determined by means of fluorescent viability stains (carboxyfluorescein diacetate and propidium iodide) using a flow cytometer. The advantages and pitfalls of this approach are addressed. The values obtained have been used to compute the water permeability, or hydraulic conductivity, of the plasma membrane and its activation energy for each species. Fowl spermatozoa were found to have a lower critical osmolality (17 mOsm) than bull spermatozoa (36 mOsm), and this is discussed in relation to the differences in cell shape and size. The hydraulic conductivities of fowl and bull spermatozoa were 2.1 and 10.8 microns x atmosphere x minute, respectively, and the respective activation energies were 4.4 and 3.0 kcal/mol. The relevance of these findings to cryopreservation of spermatozoa is considered.
New measures of sperm motion. I. Adaptive smoothing and harmonic analysis.	Several kinematic measures from computer-aided sperm analysis (CASA) instruments depend critically upon the computation of the spatially averaged path of a sperm's curvilinear swimming trajectory. Presently available instruments compute the average path by smoothing the curvilinear trajectory using a fixed-length running average. We demonstrate that this method significantly distorts the spatially averaged path for irregularly swimming sperm, both within and between trajectories, resulting in inaccurate calculations for the velocity of the average path (VAP), amplitude of lateral head displacement (ALH), beat-cross frequency (BCF), wobble of the curvilinear trajectory (WOB), and straightness of the curvilinear trajectory (STR). The authors introduce an alternative approach, based on engineering signal processing techniques, where the width of the running average is adapted to the changing wavelengths of the major spatial oscillations of each curvilinear trajectory. How this adaptive method results in less distortion of the average path and produces more accurate characterizations of the above measures is shown. This method is implemented in a computer program developed by the authors, called PathTool. It is also demonstrated that the simple methods used to characterize the frequency and amplitude of the major oscillation in a sperm's curvilinear trajectory (ie, BCF and ALH) are only accurate for the most periodic, progressive, and symmetrical trajectories. Three new measures are introduced, based on mathematical harmonic analysis, that are more robust alternatives to the present methods. These new methods and measures are initially evaluated using prototypical sperm trajectories from human semen. Results suggest that adaptive smoothing and harmonic analysis produce more accurate estimates of the frequency and magnitude of oscillations in sperm trajectories than the method based on fixed-length smoothing, BCF, and ALH.
Effects of age and environmental factors on semen production and semen quality of Austrian Simmental bulls.	More than 90% of the breeding stock of Austrian dual purpose Simmental cows is artificially inseminated. Knowledge of factors affecting sperm production and semen quality is of importance with regard to reproductive efficiency and thus genetic improvement as well as for the productivity and profitability of AI centers. Hence, semen data from two Austrian AI centres collected in the years 2000 and 2001 were evaluated. In total, 3625 and 3654 ejaculates from 147 and 127 AI bulls, respectively, were analysed regarding ejaculate volume, sperm concentration, percentage of viable spermatozoa in the ejaculate, total spermatozoa per ejaculate and motility. Effects accounted for were the bull (random), age of bull, collection interval, number of collection on collection day, bull handler, semen collector, temperature on day of semen collection, in the course of epididymal maturation (average temperature of days 1-11 before collection) and during spermatogenesis (average temperature of days 12-65 before collection). Age of bull significantly affected all traits (P<0.01 to P<0.001) except motility score in center 2. Ejaculate volume and total number of spermatozoa increased with age of bull while sperm concentration was lower in higher age classes (center 1). The collection team was also found to significantly influence semen quality traits. With increasing collection interval ejaculate volume and total number of spermatozoa increased significantly (P<0.05 to P<0.001) while collection intervals between 4-9 days and 1-6 days were superior with regard to sperm concentration and percentage of viable spermatozoa, respectively (P<0.10 to P<0.001). First ejaculates were superior with respect to ejaculate volumes, sperm concentrations and total number of spermatozoa per ejaculate (P<0.001). Temperature, either on day of semen collection or during epididymal maturation or spermatogenesis, had important but inconsistent effects on semen production and sperm quality. Overall, however, ambient temperatures in the range of 5-15 degrees C were found to be optimal for semen production.
Characteristics of captive Japanese black bears (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) semen collected by electroejaculation with different voltages for stimulation and frozen-thawed under different conditions.	The Japanese black bear (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) is an endangered species in some areas of Japan, and semen collection and cryopreservation are important means to preserve genetic resources and prevent extinction. The aim of the present study was to improve the methods for electroejaculation and cryopreservation in these bears. We collected the semen from captive mature Japanese black bears during the mating season by the electroejaculation method using maximum stimulus voltages of 10 V (n=9) and 7 V (n=15), and compared the characteristics of fresh semen after collection. None of the variables examined (i.e. total sperm count, motility, viability, morphology, and rate of urine contamination) were statistically different between the two electro-stimulus voltages. After the semen obtained was cryopreserved, the effects of three different diluents (egg yolk-TRIS-citrate-glucose, egg yolk-TRIS-citrate-fructose, and egg yolk-TRIS-citrate-fructose-lactose-raffinose; n=10) and two different incubation times (1-1 and 3-0 h of cooling-glycerol equilibration times; n=12) on frozen-thawed spermatozoa. None of the variables examined (i.e. motility, viability and morphology) were statistically different among the three diluents and between the two incubation times. The results indicate that, in the collection and cryopreservation of Japanese black bear semen: (1) a maximum voltage of 7 V may be enough to obtain ejaculates; (2) the three diluents examined were useful; and (3) glycerol equilibration time may be omitted with prior cooling for 3h.
The onset of puberty in North American bison (Bison bison) bulls.	Prepubertal testicular development was evaluated in young North American bison (Bison bison) bulls over a 12 months period, by following various parameters of semen quality intended to measure sexual maturity level. The study goals were to characterize bison male reproductive development and to define the age and onset of puberty. Semen was collected by electro-ejaculation from 12 bulls once a month for a period of 12 months, from 13 through 24 months of age. Volume, density, gross motility, individual motility, morphology, live/dead ratio, and concentration were used to judge the quality of the ejaculates. Abnormal sperm were classified into categories according to descriptions used for bovine evaluations and guidelines created by the Western Canadian Association of Bovine Practitioners were used for determining satisfactory semen quality. Minimums of 60% progressive motility and 70% normal sperm cells identified samples as satisfactory. Puberty was defined as the point in testicular development where an ejaculate contains a minimum of 50 x 10(6)sperm cells, showing at least 10% progressive motility. Fecal samples collected from bulls prior to electro-ejaculation for testosterone determination by a commercial testosterone specific antibody radioimmunoassay showed no significant changes in mean fecal testosterone concentrations over time. Changes in mean body weights over the study period were calculated, the average body weight at 13 and 24 months of age were 263+/-18.6 and 475+/-52.2 kg, respectively. Under these experimental conditions, age was determined to be the most significant factor in determining the onset of puberty. On average, bulls reached puberty at 16.5+/-2.5 months. There was a significant increase in the number of normal sperm with increasing bull age as well as significant decreases in proximal cytoplasmic droplets and head defects, but no significant changes in midpiece and principal piece defects. There were significant increases with age in individual progressive motility, gross motility, concentration, density, and volume but not in the percent of live sperm. Bison bulls used for breeding should be capable of passing a breeding soundness evaluation by 24 months of age. The commercial bison industry semen tests, and possibly rejects, many developmentally incomplete bulls between 19 and 21 months of age. We suggest that these may actually be developing normally and should not be hastily discarded; it may be worth testing again at 24 months.
The seasonal fertility of North American bison (Bison bison) bulls.	The objective of this study was to determine the presence and magnitude of seasonal fluctuations in semen quality and other reproductive indices in bison bulls. Testicles from 288 commercially slaughtered bison bulls were collected monthly over a 1-year period. Carcass and testicle weight were determined and measurements of seminiferous tubule lumen, diameter, and epithelial thickness were made. Sperm cell morphology and defects were described and quantified using epididymal semen from each testicle. Twenty-one Plains (Bison bison bison) and Wood bison (Bison bison athabascae) breeding bulls, averaging 6.0 years of age (range 2.5-8.0), from three farms were selected for semen collection and evaluation on the basis of producer co-operation. Semen was collected by electro-ejaculation on four seasonal occasions during a 12-month period. Ejaculate quality was judged on the basis of volume, density, gross and individual motility, morphology, live/dead ratio, and concentration. Sperm cell morphologies were evaluated microscopically and classified according to criteria used for bovine semen. Fecal testosterone was measured at each semen collection using a commercial competitive binding radioimmunoassay. There was an increase in carcass weights over the study period and testis weights were moderately correlated (r=0.44) with carcass weights. However, mean testes weights were heavier (P<0.05) in the summer than in winter, spring, or fall periods. There were no differences in the proportion of normal and abnormal epididymal sperm between seasons but there were seasonal changes in the testicular parenchyma. Seminiferous tubule and lumen diameter, and epithelial thickness were greatest (P<0.05) in summer. Live bulls gained weight between April and November, but lost weight over the winter. Normal sperm cell percentages as well as individual sperm cell motility in electro-ejaculated sperm samples were higher (P<0.05) at the pre-breeding collection relative to other collections, but no change in sperm cell concentrations occurred over the study period. Fecal testosterone concentrations were highest at the pre-breeding period (June) but decreased (P<0.05) in each subsequent collection to reach their lowest levels in the April. While many changes in seen characteristics were not significant, overall results indicate the presence of some reproductive seasonality and increased testicular capacity in the summer breeding season. Bulls showing marginal semen quality in the winter but otherwise carrying desirable genetic traits may warrant another evaluation in late spring prior to being culled from a breeding program.
Semen evaluation in the chamois of Abruzzi (Rupicapra pyrenaica ornata).	The chamois of Abruzzi (Rupicapra pyrenaica ornata) has been classified as endangered by the World Union for Conservation. The objective of this study was to analyze seasonal differences in the characteristics of various male reproductive organs and in semen quality. The study was conduced during 2004 in the reserve of Lama dei Peligni (Italy) on three chamois males aged between 2 and 5 years. Males were captured during March-May months and October-December months. Various testicular and scrotal measurements were taken and semen was collected using an electroejaculator. Sperm motility pattern was evaluated using computer assisted sperm analyzer, membrane integrity using differential staining and morphology with phase contrast microscopy. Testicular size, sperm motility membrane integrity and the percent of morphological normal spermatozoa were greater during October-December. The authors concluded that sperm characteristics are strongly influenced by season and that semen collected in this period (breeding season) has suitable quality for manipulation and long-term preservation.
Human spermatozoa do not undergo the acrosome reaction during storage in the cervix.	Incubation of human spermatozoa in capacitation media for 24 hours resulted in a significant increase in acrosome-reacted spermatozoa compared with preincubation (baseline) levels. By contrast, sperm samples recovered from the cervix for as long as 72 hours after coitus showed only baseline percentages of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa. These results indicate that human spermatozoa do not undergo the acrosome reaction during cervical storage even if they undergo capacitation.
Sperm motility parameters to evaluate the seminal quality of Boa constrictor occidentalis, a threatened snake species.	Semen quality analysis constitutes a powerful tool to evaluate the fertility potential of males in threatened species. The Argentine boa constrictor or lampalagua (Boa constrictor occidentalis) is a threatened snake species and has been included in Appendix I of CITES. The objective of this work is to characterize the sperm of B. c. occidentalis on the bases of dynamic parameters to improve this species conservation. Dynamic parameters were measured in sperm samples using videomicroscopy and image analysis software. The sperm population showed a high degree of heterogeneity in velocity parameter values and 95% of the cells showed a linear pattern of movement. Studies in other species indicate that the number of motile spermatozoa and their movement speed is directly correlated with fertilization success. This work will help to establish basic parameter values for the evaluation of the reproductive potential of populations of B. c. occidentalis and to resolve questions referred to its reproductive strategies.
Semen changes after extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy for distal-ureteral stones.	To determine the effects on semen of extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy for distal-ureteral stones.
The effect of cryopreservation on sperm head morphometry in Florida male goat related to sperm freezability.	The Sperm Class Analyzer was used to investigate the effect of freeze-thawing procedure on Florida buck sperm head morphometry, and to relate possible changes in sperm head dimensions to cryopreservation success. Semen samples (n=76) were frozen with tris and milk-based extenders and thawed. Sperm quality samples (motility, morphology, acrosome), and sperm head morphometric values (length, width, area, perimeter, ellipticity) were compared between fresh and frozen-thawed samples. Sperm freezability was judged according to the sperm quality parameters assessed. Fertility data was obtained after artificial insemination with cryopreserved semen. Cryopreservation success was different between freezing methods. Sperm head dimensions were significantly (p<0.05) smaller in cryopreserved tris and milk spermatozoa respectively than in those of the fresh samples. The sperm head morphometric parameters that had changed after cryopreservation were lower in suitable semen samples after thawing and with successful pregnancies after artificial insemination. These data suggest that changes in sperm head morphometry might reflect spermatozoa injury occurred during cryopreservation.
Effects of liquid storage on amidase activity, DNA fragmentation and motility of turkey spermatozoa.	Short-term liquid storage of turkey semen is of great interest in the management of turkey reproduction due to the extensive use of artificial insemination. This study examined changes in DNA fragmentation (using a comet assay), sperm motility characteristics (using computer-aided sperm analysis), and amidase activity (using a colorimetric assay) of turkey sperm stored for 24 and 48 h. In addition we found that turkey spermatozoa contain besides acrosin, additional two serine proteinases of molecular weight of 34 and 42 kDa. We found that, after 48 h of liquid storage, decreases in sperm motility characteristics and increases in amidase activity and DNA fragmentation occurred. An increase of amidase activity was found after 24h. Decreases in sperm motility and increase in DNA fragmentation were found after 48 h of storage. These data suggest that a decrease in turkey sperm quality during short-term storage is related to disturbances to the acrosome, presumably related to premature activation of acrosomal serine proteinases, and to a lesser extent a decrease in sperm motility characteristics and damage of sperm DNA.
Nematode sperm motility: nonpolar filament polymerization mediated by end-tracking motors.	In nematode sperm cell motility, major sperm protein (MSP) filament assembly results in dynamic membrane protrusions in a manner that closely resembles actin-based motility in other eukaryotic cells. Paradoxically, whereas actin-based motility is driven by addition of ATP-bound actin subunits onto actin filament plus-ends located at the cell membrane, MSP dimers assemble from solution into nonpolar filaments that lack a nucleotide binding site. Thus, filament polarity and on-filament ATP hydrolysis, although essential for actin-based motility, appear to be unnecessary for membrane protrusions by MSP. As a potential resolution to this paradox, we propose a model for MSP filament assembly and force generation by MSP filament end-tracking proteins. In this model, ATP hydrolysis drives affinity-modulated, processive interactions between membrane-associated proteins and elongating filament ends. However, in contrast to the "actoclampin" model for actin filament end-tracking motors, ATP activates the tracking protein (or a soluble cofactor) rather than the MSP subunits themselves (in contrast to activation of actin subunits by ATP binding). The MSP end-tracking model predicts properties that are consistent with several key observations of MSP-based motility, including persistent membrane attachment, polymerization of filament ends at the membrane with depolymerization of free-filament ends away from the membrane, as well as a saturating dependence of polymerization rate on the concentration of non-MSP soluble cytoplasmic components.
Reconstitution in vitro of MSP-based filopodium extension in nematode sperm.	The major sperm protein (MSP) motility system in nematode sperm is best known for propelling the movement of mature sperm, where it has taken over the role usually played by actin in amoeboid cell motility. However, MSP filaments also drive the extension of filopodia, transient organelles composed of a core bundle of MSP filaments, that form in the late in sperm development but are not found on crawling cells. We have reconstituted filopodial extension in vitro whereby thin bundles of MSP filaments, each enveloped by a membrane sheath at their growing end, elongated at rates up to 17 microm/min. These bundles often exceeded 500 microm in length but were comprised of filaments only 1 microm long. The reconstituted filopodia assembled in the same cell-free sperm extracts that produced MSP fibers, robust meshworks of filaments that exhibit the same organization and dynamics as the lamellipodial filament system that propels sperm movement. The filopodia and fibers that assembled in vitro both had a membranous structure at their growing end, shared four MSP accessory proteins, and responded identically to agents that alter MSP-based motility by modulating protein phosphorylation. However, filopodia grew three- to four-fold faster than fibers. The reconstitution of filopodial extension shows that, like the actin cytoskeleton, MSP filaments can adopt two architectures, bundles and meshworks, each capable of pushing against membranes to generate protrusion. The reconstitution of both forms of motility in the same in vitro system provides a promising avenue for understanding how the forces for membrane protrusion are produced.
Characteristics of ejaculated rat semen after lesion of scrotal nerves.	The scrotum, representing the pouch surrounding the testes and their associated structures, plays a significant role in maintaining the gonad at a temperature lower than that of the body. Although thermoregulation of the testes has been ascribed as a main function of the scrotum, here we found that mechanical stimulation of the scrotum is important during mating to facilitate the appropriate expulsion of semen during ejaculation. Previously we showed that the scrotal skin area is innervated by two nerve branches, the proximal (Psb) and distal (Dsb) scrotal branches which supply the proximal or distal half of the scrotum, respectively. The sensory field of each nerve is testosterone-dependent. The decreased androgen levels following castration reduce the sensitive area to mechanical stimuli that can be restored following exogenous administration of the hormone. Here, we tested the effect of scrotal nerve transection on sexual parameters of experienced male rats. Data show that lesion of PSb or DSb alone or combined did not affect the execution of sexual behavior. However, these lesions significantly reduced the proportion of males that expelled semen during ejaculation, with that semen showing a reduced quantity of sperm. Thus, scrotal nerves are important in reproduction not for the appropriate display of sexual behavior, but for the expulsion of a normal quantity of semen and number of sperm during ejaculation. Our suggestion is that scrotal afferents trigger spinal reflexes to activate autonomic efferents supplying the male reproductive tract for the control of seminal emission.
A Ser/Thr kinase required for membrane-associated assembly of the major sperm protein motility apparatus in the amoeboid sperm of Ascaris.	Leading edge protrusion in the amoeboid sperm of Ascaris suum is driven by the localized assembly of the major sperm protein (MSP) cytoskeleton in the same way that actin assembly powers protrusion in other types of crawling cell. Reconstitution of this process in vitro led to the identification of two accessory proteins required for MSP polymerization: an integral membrane phosphoprotein, MSP polymerization-organizing protein (MPOP), and a cytosolic component, MSP fiber protein 2 (MFP2). Here, we identify and characterize a 34-kDa cytosolic protein, MSP polymerization-activating kinase (MPAK) that links the activities of MPOP and MFP2. Depletion/add-back assays of sperm extracts showed that MPAK, which is a member of the casein kinase 1 family of Ser/Thr protein kinases, is required for motility. MPOP and MPAK comigrated by native gel electrophoresis, coimmunoprecipitated, and colocalized by immunofluorescence, indicating that MPOP binds to and recruits MPAK to the membrane surface. MPAK, in turn, phosphorylated MFP2 on threonine residues, resulting in incorporation of MFP2 into the cytoskeleton. Beads coated with MPAK assembled a surrounding cloud of MSP filaments when incubated in MPAK-depleted sperm extract, but only when supplemented with detergent-solubilized MPOP. Our results suggest that interactions involving MPOP, MPAK, and MFP2 focus MSP polymerization to the plasma membrane at the leading edge of the cell thereby generating protrusion and minimizing nonproductive filament formation elsewhere.
Expression of CatSper family transcripts in the mouse testis during post-natal development and human ejaculated spermatozoa: relationship to sperm motility.	CatSper is a unique sperm cation channel-like protein family exclusively expressed in the testis and plays important roles in sperm functions. The temporal expression profiles of CatSper1-4 mRNAs in the mouse testis during post-natal development through adulthood were investigated using real-time RT-PCR. The CatSper2 transcript was present in the testis of the 8-day-old mice, and was repressed in the adult testis after two sharp up-regulations at day 18 and 35. CatSper1 and CatSper3, 4 mRNAs were detectable in the testis of 18-day and 15-day-old mice, respectively. After sharp up-regulation at day 25 and 35, respectively, they were maximal at the adult testis stage. The differences between the temporal expression profiles of the CatSper transcripts in post-natal mouse testis development suggest different regulation to their transcription, and potentially contribute to the possibility of forming heteromeric channels among these four CatSper family members. CatSper1-3 transcripts were identified to be present in the human ejaculated spermatozoa by RT-PCR. Significantly higher levels of CatSper2 and CatSper3 mRNAs revealed by real-time RT-PCR were observed in the high-motile spermatozoa than in the low-motile fraction and suggests that CatSper2 and CatSper3 transcripts in the human ejaculated spermatozoa could be the potential targets for further study and male infertility screening.
Effect of body weight, age and breeding history on canine sperm quality parameters measured by the Hamilton-Thorne analyser.	During the last decade, several computer assisted sperm analysis (CASA) systems have been validated for canine sperm quality assessment. Regarding the impressive possibilities of these systems, further research is required to determine which CASA measurements are of clinical importance in canine andrology. In the present study, the sperm quality parameters obtained by the Hamilton-Thorne Semen Analyser (Ceros 12.1; HTR) were correlated with the body weight and the age of the dogs. Moreover, the sperm quality parameters of dogs with a different breeding history were compared. The sperm-rich fraction was collected from 111 dogs of 50 different breeds, which were presented at our department. Immediately after collection, the concentration, the total sperm output (TSO) and 13 different sperm motility and velocity characteristics were measured by the HTR. The percentage of live spermatozoa and the spermatozoal morphology were examined on eosin/nigrosin stained smears. Based on their breeding history, the dogs were divided in three groups: 'fertile' (n = 60), 'subfertile' (n = 17) or 'not used for breeding' (n = 34). Significant (p < 0.05) correlations were established between the body weight of the dogs and the TSO (r = 0.245) and velocity curvilinear (VCL; r = -0.220), respectively. The age was negatively correlated with the percentage of normal spermatozoa (r = -0.203; p < 0.05). The correlations with all the other evaluated sperm parameters were low and not significant. Significant differences between the 'fertile' and the 'subfertile' group were found for all of the evaluated sperm quality parameters (except for BCF, LIN, STR and MEDIUM). In conclusion, dogs tend to produce ejaculates with a lower percentage of normal spermatozoa with increasing age and dogs with higher body weights produce ejaculates with a higher TSO and a lower VCL. Significantly poorer sperm characteristics were found for dogs with lower in vivo fertility results.
Comparison of computer-assisted sperm motility analysis parameters in semen from Belgian blue and Holstein-Friesian bulls.	Subjective microscopic sperm motility results have recently been demonstrated to differ between Holstein-Friesian (HF) and Belgian Blue (BB) bulls. However, such assessments are rather imprecise. In the present study, sperm motility was assessed objectively by means of the Hamilton Thorne CEROS version 12.2c computer-assisted sperm motility analyser (CASA), and differences between the BB and HF breed could also be demonstrated. Higher percentages of both totally (p < 0.0001) and progressively (p < 0.0001) motile spermatozoa were encountered in the HF breed compared with the BB breed. Furthermore, a lower kinetic efficiency of the BB spermatozoa, evidenced by a lower beat cross-frequency (p = 0.0007) combined with a higher lateral head displacement (p = 0.0015), was the basis for the lower velocity of BB sperm cells. Additionally, BB spermatozoa move less straight forward, resulting in a lower straightness (p < 0.0001). No sperm motility differences were observed between age groups within the BB breed. The breed differences were observed in the examined bull populations residing at AI centres, in Belgium for the BB bulls and in the Netherlands for the HF bulls. However, these bull populations are selected for fertility. A similar pattern was observed in an unselected bull population of both breeds, although these differences were mostly non-significant for the different CASA parameters. Nevertheless, these data suggest that a genetic component might be responsible for the observed sperm motility breed differences.
Effect of sperm cryopreservation on the European eel sperm viability and spermatozoa morphology.	The main objective of the present work was to study the effect of cryopreservation of European eel sperm both on the sperm viability and the spermatozoa head morphology. Spermatozoa morphology was evaluated with computer-assisted morphology analysis after collection in fresh samples, after adding the freezing medium containing dimethyl sulfoxide as cryoprotectant and, finally, after the cryopreservation process and thawing. Cell viability was assessed, in both fresh and thawed samples, by Hoechst 33258 staining. Computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) was used to determine the percentage of motile cells and to measure motility parameters in sperm samples. A significant decrease of head perimeter (12.56%) and area (17.90%) was detected from spermatozoa in fresh to thawed samples, indicating that cells do not recover the original size after the cryopreservation process. CASA was used to measure the percentage of motile cells (51.9%) and spermatozoa motility parameters such as curvilinear, straight line and angular path velocities, as well as beating cross frequency. This technique was employed in the fresh sperm samples but proteins present at the freezing medium (L-alpha-phosphatidylcholine) made impossible to use this last technique in thawed samples. When sperm viability was assessed by Hoechst staining, a significant decrease of approximately 15% (73.10 vs 58.26%) of alive spermatozoa was registered from fresh to thawed samples. The percentage of motile cells measured by CASA in fresh samples (51.9%) was lower than the percentage of alive cells determined by Hoechst stainning, suggesting the existence of different batches of spermatozoa in different stages of development, even during the eight to tenth weeks of treatment, when the highest sperm quality was found.
Fluorescent stain method for the simultaneous determination of mitochondrial potential and integrity of plasma and acrosomal membranes in boar sperm.	The purpose of this study was to validate a technique for simultaneous evaluation of the plasma, acrosomal and mitochondrial membranes in boar spermatozoa, using an association of fluorescent probes: Propidium iodide (PI), fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated Pisum sativum agglutinin (FITC-PSA) and JC-1. Three ejaculates from each of four different boars, all showing motility >or=80% and abnormal morphology <or=10%, were diluted in TALP medium and split into two aliquots. One of the aliquots was flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and thawed in three continuous cycles, to induce damage in cellular membranes and to disturb mitochondrial function. Three treatments were prepared with the following fixed ratios of fresh semen : flash frozen semen; 100 : 0 (T100), 50 : 50 (T50), and 0 : 100 (T0). The samples were then submitted to a stain technique. To a 150-microl aliquot of diluted semen it was added 3 microl of PI (0.5 mg/ml), 2 microl of JC-1 (153 microm) and 50 microl of FITC-PSA (100 microg/ml). Samples were incubated at 38.5 degrees C for 8 min, in the dark. An 8-microl sample was put on a slide, coverslipped and immediately evaluated by epifluorescent microscopy. The association of fluorescent probes was divided into eight cell classes, according to plasma membrane integrity, intact acrosome and mitochondrial function. For plasma membrane integrity, detected by PI probe, the equation: (p < 0.0001) and R(2) = 0.97 was obtained. The intact acrosome, verified by the FITC-PSA probe, produced the equation: (p < 0.0001) and R(2) = 0.98. The mitochondrial potential, marked by JC-1, was estimated by the equation: (p < 0.001) and R(2) = 0.99. The group of spermatozoa with combined intact plasma membrane, intact acrosome and high mitochondrial potential (IPIAH), was estimated by the equation: (p < 0.0001) and R(2) = 0.97. The resulting linear equations demonstrate that this technique is efficient and practical for the simultaneous evaluations of the plasma, acrosomal and mitochondrial membranes in boar spermatozoa.
Air contact influences the pH of extended porcine semen.	In this study, the pH-rise during storage of extended porcine semen was examined. This pH-rise was found to be caused by CO(2)-loss from the buffering system in the extender and was more pronounced with increasing air volume in the recipient. An influence on sperm motility parameters was observed between semen samples stored in the presence of different amounts of ambient air in the recipient. Velocity parameters and percentage motile spermatozoa were significantly lower for semen stored in recipients with higher air volume and elevated pH. Adjusting extender preparation by avoiding air contact in commercial AI-centres may minimize the pH-rise and its influence on sperm motility.
Sperm survival: relationship to age-related sperm DNA integrity in infertile men.	The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effect of age and sperm DNA integrity on sperm survival. Semen samples from fifty six unselected patients undergoing infertility evaluation were assessed in terms of standard semen parameters, DNA integrity, and sperm survival after 6-24 h of incubation. Prolonged incubation of density gradient selected sperm adversely effects sperm survival in older patients and patients with extensive sperm DNA damage. Immediate preparation of such samples prior to use for assisted reproductive technology (ART) may overcome the negative effect of extended incubation.
Relationship between age and semen parameters in men with normal sperm concentration: analysis of 6022 semen samples.	This study evaluates retrospectively the relationship between age and semen parameters among men with normal sperm concentration. It was based on computerized data and performed in an Academic Fertility and IVF Unit. Six thousand and twenty-two semen samples with sperm concentrations of >or=20 x 10(6) ml(-1) were examined according to WHO criteria and analysed in relation to patients' age. For each age group, mean values +/- SD of semen volume, sperm concentration, percentage of motile spermatozoa, normal morphology, acrosome index, total sperm count/ejaculate, total motile sperm count/ejaculate and sexual abstinence duration were examined. A peak semen volume of 3.51 +/- 1.76 ml(-1) was observed at age >or=30 to <35 years and a lowest volume of 2.21 +/- 1.23 ml(-1) was observed at age >or=55 years (P<0.05). Sperm motility was found to be inversely related to age with peak motility of 44.39 +/- 20.69% at age <25 years and lowest motility of 24.76 +/- 18.27% at age >or=55 years (P<0.05). A reduction of 54% was observed for total motile sperm, between values of 103.34 +/- 107 x 10(6) at age >or=30 to <35 years and 46.68 +/- 53.73 x 10(6) (P<0.05) at age >55 years. A statistically significant and inverse relationship was observed between semen volume, sperm quality and patient age, in spite of prolonged sexual abstinence duration. Top sperm parameters were observed at age >or=30 to <35 years, while the most significant reduction in sperm parameters occurred after the age of 55 years.
Adjustments on the cryopreservation conditions reduce the incidence of boar ejaculates with poor sperm freezability.	The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of different cryopreservation conditions (CCs) for freezing and thawing boar ejaculates, focusing on those having sub-optimal sperm freezability. Using a split-ejaculate technique, single ejaculates from 53 boars were diluted in lactose-egg yolk extender, containing a final glycerol concentration (GLY) of 2 or 3%, packaged in 0.5 mL straws and were cooled at rates of -10, -40 or -60 degrees C/min (cooling rate: CR). Thereafter, the frozen sperm samples were thawed by warming them at rates of approximately 1200 or approximately 1800 degrees C/min (warming rate: WR). Frozen-thawed sperm samples were assessed for the sperm motility (CASA system) and flow cytometric analysis of plasma and acrosomal membranes integrity. Cooling rate had no influence (P>0.05) on sperm quality parameters, however GLY and WR independently affected (P<0.05) all assessed sperm parameters. Evaluating the combined effect of GLY and WR (four different CCs resulting of a 2 x 2 factorial design), the best post-thaw quality results were achieved for sperm samples frozen with 3% glycerol and thawed at 1800 degrees C/min (CC4). However, there was a significant interaction (P<0.001) between CC and ejaculate for all post-thaw sperm quality assessments. Therefore, ejaculates were classified in three different populations according to the post-thaw sperm quality achieved using control CC (CC1: 2% of glycerol and approximately 1200 degrees C/min of warming). The effectiveness of CCs was different (P<0.05) in the three ejaculate populations. Spermatozoa from ejaculates considered as "good" freezers were relatively unaffected (P>0.05) by the modifications in the CCs, whereas those from "moderate" and, mainly, "bad" freezers were very sensitive (P<0.05). In conclusion, optimization of the CCs - GLY and WR - can improve the cryosurvival of spermatozoa in some ejaculates, particularly in those having poor sperm freezing ability.
Non-genomic steroid actions in human spermatozoa. "Persistent tickling from a laden environment".	As sperm traverse the female tract from vagina to oocyte, they experience a steroid milieu, which due to transcriptional inactivity, they can only respond to via non-genomic signaling. This environment mediates events including capacitation, changes in motility patterns, chemotaxis, and acrosome reaction. Current knowledge of the events, calcium signaling pathways, and potential identity of receptors involved is reviewed in light of recent data, with a context for further work in the field, and emphasizing the importance of steroids as a mixed stimulant. Progesterone receptor candidates are considered in light of recent findings, including novel classes of receptors such as a progesterone membrane receptor component-1 or -2 complex with serpine-1 mRNA binding protein, the best candidate so far for progesterone activity in human sperm. Given the number of other alternative candidates and the apparent diversity of the signaling pathways activated, the presence of multiple species of progesterone receptors should not be excluded. Given that sperm dysfunction is the most common defined cause of infertility, advances in our currently limited knowledge of these pathways and events are crucial to not only create better therapies but also improve rational diagnosis.
Cryo-scanning electron microscopy (Cryo-SEM) of boar semen frozen in medium-straws and MiniFlatPacks.	In this study we demonstrate, in the frozen state, the architecture of frozen boar spermatozoa collected from the sperm-rich fraction of ejaculates (n=13) from four fertile boars packed and split-frozen in medium-straws (MS) and MiniFlatPacks (MFP), cross-sectioned in the frozen state and evaluated by image analysis on images obtained by use of cryo-scanning electron microscopy (Cryo-SEM). The tested hypothesis was that the degree of in situ dehydration and levels of homogeneity of boar semen either frozen in MSs or MFPs packages differ between them, with MFPs allowing for a more uniform dehydration of the spermatozoa and a higher cryosurvival, monitored by computer assisted sperm analysis (CASA) as proportion of linearly motile spermatozoa, compared to semen packaged and processed in MSs. The organization and relative surface of biological material (veins; e.g., frozen extender, bound water, solutes and spermatozoa) as well as free water (lakes) was measured as the degree of dehydration of the samples. The apparent organization of lakes and veins differed between packages, with the MFPs depicting larger lakes than the MSs. The sizes of the lakes in the latter appeared, moreover, highly asymmetrical depending on their position of the section. The relative surface of these lakes per section, respectively veins differed between packages (P<0.05), indicating a larger amount of free-water (lakes; 81.73+/-2.07% vs. 77.91+/-1.57%) in the MFPs and, consequently, thinner veins than in MSs. In conclusion, MFPs seem to allow for a more homogenous dehydration of the spermatozoa/frozen extender compared to MSs, which might account for their somewhat better sperm quality post-thaw.
Inhibiting sperm motility for male contraception: will the sperm tail be its "Achilles heel"?	Blocking sperm motility has great appeal as a male contraceptive. A drug that targets sperm motility might have a very rapid onset of action, possibly allowing for administration immediately prior to intercourse and minimizing concerns about compliance. Promising sperm motility targets include transmembrane calcium channels, a unique adenylyl cyclase, and novel flagellar proteins. Future efforts directed towards effectively antagonizing the activities of these or other such targets will be required to completely impair sperm production, function, or both and create a usable male "pill."
Characterization and cooled storage of semen from corn snakes (Elaphe guttata).	The phylogenetic order Squamata has many representatives that could benefit from the use of semen preservation as a tool for assisting conservation. To date, few studies have been made evaluating the potential for collecting and preserving semen from snakes. The objectives of this study were to characterize semen parameters of the corn snake (Elaphe guttata), including appearance, volume, concentration, sperm motility, and sperm morphology, and to determine the longevity of corn snake sperm motility stored at 4 degrees C. Single semen samples were collected from 22 adult corn snakes. The appearance of the corn snake semen was generally cloudy, and the color was white to tan. Corn snake spermatozoa initially exhibited a median motility of 92.5%. Corn snakes were found to produce small-volume ejaculates (median 0.01 ml). However, the overall concentration of the snake ejaculate was high (chi = 852 x 10(6) +/- 585 x 10(6) spermatozoa/ml). Morphologically, a mean of 75.7 +/- 9.3% of the sperm cells in an ejaculate were normal. Snake ejaculate with a white appearance had significantly higher sperm concentrations (chi = 1,859 x 10(6) +/- 1,008 x 106 sperm cells/ml; F = 15.74, P = 0.001) than tan ejaculates (chi = 601 x 10(6) +/- 439 x 106 sperm cells/ml). Sperm motility decreased significantly in samples that were stored at 4 degrees C for greater than 48 hr in a refrigerator or Equitainer I. This is the first study to characterize semen volume, appearance, and concentration; sperm motility; and sperm morphology in captive corn snakes. The information derived from this study can be used to develop a model for a collection, cooled storage, and shipping program for semen from endangered or threatened captive and wild snakes.
Semen collection and characterization in rockhopper penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome chrysocome).	Low egg fertility and hatchability is a common problem in captive populations of rockhopper penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome chrysocome). These conditions make sustaining a captive population challenging. A method for collecting and evaluating semen from rockhopper penguins was developed to assist in the evaluation of low egg fertility found in one captive population. Six adult male rockhopper penguins were conditioned to allow semen collection once a week from the start of breeding season until ejaculates no longer contained sperm. A total of 59 ejaculates was collected between 17 September and 31 December 2004. Forty-five of these samples were evaluated for volume, pH, sperm concentration, and sperm quality (motility, viability, and morphology). There was a large variation between individuals and between collections for each individual. The mean motility was 34.5% (+/- 22%). Mean volume of ejaculate was 0.23 ml (+/- .31 ml). Mean concentration was 16.9 x 10(6) sperm/ml (+/- 48.7 x 10(6) sperm/ml). Mean number of sperm per collection was 1.7 x 10(6) (+/- 4.2 x 10(6)). Mean percentage of living sperm was 82.9% (+/- 18.1%). Mean percentage of sperm with normal morphology was 82.1% (+/- 18.8%). Mean pH was 6.47 (+/- 0.49). During this season, only one of these males paired with a female. The pair produced one fertile egg, but the embryo died early in incubation. Male rockhopper penguins had low sperm concentration and low motility indicating that low male fertility may be contributing to the poor egg fertility rate. This work represents the first step in an ongoing study to improve captive breeding of rockhopper penguins.
Separate locations of urocortin and its receptors in mouse testis: function in male reproduction and the relevant mechanisms.	Urocortin (UCN), a newly identified corticotrophin-releasing-factor (CRF) related peptide, has been demonstrated to play important roles in female reproductive system. However, few studies were reported about its effects on male reproduction. This study aimed to investigate the expression profile of UCN and CRF receptors (CRFR) in mouse testis and functions of UCN in male reproduction. Expression of UCN and CRFR mRNA was detected by RT-PCR. Localization of UCN peptide was determined by immunohistochemistry and double-immunostaining. We found that both UCN mRNA and peptide were obviously expressed in mature spermatozoa, whereas CRFR1 and CRFR2 were expressed respectively in spermatocytes and spermatogonia. Double-immunostaining results showed that UCN expression decreased with acrosome reaction (AR) proceeding. UCN significantly inhibited AR initiated by progesterone with chlortetracycline staining and decreased spermatozoa motility concentration-dependently. Pre-incubation of spermatozoa with astressin, a CRFR antagonist, did not affect these inhibitions. In addition, flow cytometry showed that UCN concentration-dependently decreased intracellular Ca(2+) [Ca(2+)](i) in spermatozoa. In summary, UCN located in mouse spermatozoa and exerted inhibitory effects on male reproductive functions including motility and AR. UCN's inhibition on [Ca(2+)](i) via T-type calcium channels might be responsible for these effects.
Effect of long-term storage on deoxyribonucleic acid damage and motility of sperm bank donor specimens.	The percentage of sperm DNA damage in samples from sperm bank donors was not significantly different (P=.17), whereas the percentage of motile cells was lower (P=.009) after long-term (9-13 years) compared with short-term (1-5 years) storage. Density gradient isolation reduced the difference in sperm motility between the two groups.
Assessment of selected quality parameters of epididymal cat (Felis catus s. domestica, L. 1758) sperm using flow cytometry method and computer assisted sperm analyser.	The improvement of biotechnical methods connected with fast and precise semen quality assessment and its utilization in assisted reproductive techniques is an urgent necessity in felids. The aim of this study was to evaluate some quality parameters (i.e. the viability and share of cells with intact plasma membrane) of epididymal sperm of cats using the flow cytometry method and computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) examination. The material consisted of epididymal spermatozoa flushed from 22 pairs of epididymes after routine neutering procedures obtained from domestic cats aged between 8 and 36 months. The epididymes were cut and incubated with an extender without egg yolk. The samples were assessed for sperm viability (Live/Dead Sperm Viability Kit), percentage of subtle membrane changes (Apoptosis Detection Kit) and motility using FACScalibur flow cytometer and assisted sperm analyser HTM IVOS version 12.2. The flow cytometry method revealed 71.3% and 84.4% of live sperm using Live/Dead Sperm Viability Kit and Apoptosis Detection Kit respectively. The population of early-apoptotic and late-apoptotic sperm were 0.8% and 1.1% respectively. The CASA examination found 51.5% of motile sperm. However, the motility examination under light microscope revealed 69.5% of motile sperm. The data revealed an indistinctive per cent of apoptotic cells and 18.9% and 15.6% of dead cells using Live/Dead Sperm Viability Kit and Apoptosis Detection Kit, respectively, which indicate that the sperm obtained after flushing the epididymis possess potential properties for further assisted reproduction techniques.
Analysing motility parameters on fresh bull semen could help to predict resistance to freezing: a preliminary study.	Batches of straws often need to be thrown away after freezing because of a too few number of motile or progressive sperm cells after thawing. Our objective was to evaluate the possibility to predict before freezing the quality of the semen after freezing/thawing. Computer-Aided Sperm Analysis was performed on motility parameters both before and after freezing of 20 ejaculates from different bulls. Significant variation between bulls was observed both before and after freezing for all the analysed traits (anova2; p < 0.001): proportion of motile (%mot) and progressive (%prog) sperm, velocity on the curved line (VCL), velocity on the straight line (VSL), velocity on the average path (VAP), linearity (VSL/VCL), beat cross frequency and average orientation change of the head. Freezing significantly altered the motility parameters and correlations were found between samples analysed before and after freezing (Pearson coefficient: R = 0.43-0.72; p < 0.05). The mean VAP, VSL and the %prog obtained before freezing were highly correlated to the %mot and %prog observed after freezing (R = 0.75-0.82; p < 0.001). Applying thresholds on mean VAP and VSL values allowed us to predict respectively 6 and 7 of nine batches that would be rejected after freezing due to a too low %prog (<15%). Combining different traits did not add to the precision. In conclusion, analysis of velocity traits on fresh sperm seems more efficient than analysis of %mot or %prog to discard batches that will be of poor quality after freezing.
Mitochondrial function and reactive oxygen species action in relation to boar motility.	Flow cytometric assays of viable boar sperm were developed to measure reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation (oxidization of hydroethidine to ethidium), membrane lipid peroxidation (oxidation of lipophilic probe C(11)-BODIPY(581/591)), and mitochondrial inner transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi(m); aggregation of mitochondrial probe JC-1) during hypothermic liquid storage and freeze-thawing of boar semen and to investigate relationships among ROS, motility, DeltaPsi(m), and ATP production. Basal ROS formation and membrane lipid peroxidation were low in viable sperm of both fresh and frozen-thawed semen, affecting < or =4%. Sperm in fresh, liquid-stored and frozen-thawed semen appeared to be equally susceptible to the activity ROS generators xanthine/xanthine oxidase, FeSO(4)/ascorbate, and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Of the ROS generators tested, FeSO(4)/ascorbate was specific for membrane lipid peroxidation, whereas menadione, xanthine/xanthine oxidase, and H(2)O(2) were specific for oxidization of hydroethidine. Menadione (30microM) and H(2)O(2) (300microM) decreased (P<0.05) motility by 90% during 60min of incubation. Menadione decreased (P<0.05) the incidence of sperm with high DeltaPsi(m) by 95% during 60min of the incubation, although ATP content was not decreased (P>0.05) until 120min. In contrast, H(2)O(2) did not affect DeltaPsi(m) or ATP at any time. The formation of ROS was not associated with any change in viability (90%) for either menadione or H(2)O(2) through 120min. Overall, the inhibitory affects of ROS on motility point to a mitochondrial-independent mechanism. The reduction in motility may have been due to an ROS-induced lesion in ATP utilization or in the contractile apparatus of the flagellum.
Effect of cryopreservation on phosphorylation state of proteins involved in sperm motility initiation in sea bream.	We have previously demonstrated that in sea bream Sparus aurata motility initiation determined changes in the phosphorylation state of some proteins. This paper describes an investigation of the effect of a freezing-thawing procedure on the protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation pattern. Proteins extracted from fresh and cryopreserved spermatozoa (before and after motility activation) were separated on SDS-PAGE, blotted on nitrocellulose membrane and treated with anti-phosphotyrosine, anti-phosphothreonine, or anti-phosphoserine antibodies. The results obtained demonstrate that the cryopreservation protocol has a strong effect on the phosphorylation state of proteins. In general, compared to fresh sperm, phosphorylated proteins are most numerous in both activated and non-activated cryopreserved sperm, and in particular we observed a dramatic increase in threonine phosphorylation. However, frozen-thawed sperm showed a minor number of proteins that changed their phosphorylation state after motility activation. Among these, we identified the acetyl-coenzyme A synthetase that plays a role in sperm motility initiation in both fresh and cryopreserved sperm.
Diagnostic accuracy of an initial azoospermic reading compared with results of post-centrifugation semen analysis after vasectomy.	Semen analysis is a common laboratory procedure but few data are available to support recommendations as to whether centrifugation is necessary in the post-vasectomy context. We evaluated the accuracy of a pre-centrifugation determination of azoospermia compared with post-centrifugation results.
Effect of varicocelectomy on serum inhibin B levels in infertile patients with varicocele.	In recent years serum inhibin B level has been proposed as a major indicator for Sertoli cell function and spermatogenesis. This study evaluated the effect of varicocelectomy on serum inhibin B levels and semen parameters in infertile patients with varicocele.
Transforming growth factor beta 1 enhances expression of 50 kDa protein related to 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase in human sperm cells.	Human cellular polypeptide factors, namely interferon-alpha, interferon-gamma transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, and TGF-beta 1, were analyzed for their effect on motility of human sperm cells. Both interferons caused an inhibition of sperm cell motility due to direct cytotoxic effects without inducing 2'-5' oligoadenylate [2-5(A)]synthetase activity. TGF-alpha affected neither motility nor the levels of 2-5(A) synthetase in sperm cells. TGF-beta 1 had no affect on sperm motility, yet it caused an induction of 2-5(A)synthetase activity. Western immunoblot analysis of TGF-beta 1-treated sperm indicated an enhancement of a 50 kDa protein. Metabolic labeling of sperm cells revealed biosynthesis of one major protein of 50 kDa and at least five minor proteins in the range of 30-92 kDa; the level of 50 kDa protein increased after treatment with TGF-beta 1. The treatment of sperm cells with TGF-beta 1 did not affect their penetration in zona-free hamster eggs (SPA). These results indicate that TGF-beta 1 enhances expression of a 50 kDa protein related to 2-5(A) synthetase in human sperm cells along with other minor proteins, and this increase does not affect sperm motility and SPA.
Effect of thawing temperature on the motility recovery of cryopreserved human spermatozoa.	To investigate the effects of thawing temperature on sperm function after cryopreservation. The technical aspects of sperm cryopreservation have significantly improved over the last few decades. However, a standard protocol designed to optimize sperm motility recovery after thawing has not yet been established.
Human papillomavirus found in sperm head of young adult males affects the progressive motility.	To evaluate the prevalence of human papillomavirus (HPV) sperm infection and its correlation with sperm parameters in a cohort of young adult males.
Comparison of the ability of two sperm preparation techniques to remove microbes.	The ability of a new sperm preparation method--self migration in sodium hyaluronate (SH)--to remove microbes from samples was compared to that of the traditional method of centrifugation/swim up (CS). Two 1-ml aliquots were taken from 20 semen samples used for inseminations, and prepared by each of the methods. Samples for culture were taken immediately before wash and at 2 and 24 h after. Microbes were found in all raw semen samples with a mean concentration of 47.8 x 10(3) colony forming units per ml (c.f.u./ml). After preparation and 2 h incubation with and without penicillin, both CS and SH were found greatly to reduce the number of isolates. There were no differences between the ability of the two methods to reduce microbe concentration, although SH recovered more progressive motile spermatozoa than CS (P less than 0.05). When penicillin preparation was omitted, both the CS and SH methods resulted in significantly more isolates after 24 h of incubation. This effect of penicillin preparation was also evident after only 2 h of incubation with CS, but not with SH. No clinical signs of infection were observed among women receiving treatment. We conclude that sperm preparation by self migration in sodium hyaluronate is a simple and safe method to remove microbes and to recover motile spermatozoa.
Carbohydrate antigen 15-3 and mucinous carbohydrate antigen immunoreactivities in human seminal plasma.	Carbohydrate antigen 15-3 (CA 15-3) and mucinous carbohydrate antigen (MCA) immunoreactivities were detected in human seminal plasma. Mean values for CA 15-3 (8.2 +/- 3.7 U/ml, range 2.6 - 18.4 U/ml) and MCA (13.8 +/- 8.2 U/ml, range 2.1-31.9 U/ml) in the seminal plasma were of the same magnitude as that found in serum. No correlation was obtained between seminal plasma, either CA 15-3 or MCA immunoreactivities, and volume of seminal plasma, sperm count or percent of motile spermatozoa. Seminal plasma CA 15-3 and MCA levels were significantly (p less than 0.001) correlated (r = 0.55). The nature and origin of CA 15-3 and MCA immunoreactivities in human plasma are unknown.
Evaluation of shape variability of stallion sperm heads by means of image analysis and Fourier descriptors.	This study quantified and evaluated the variability of sperm head shape for 10 different stallions. Sperm head shape characteristics including sperm head length to width ratio, position of the center of gravity, curvature, and degree of roundness were assessed and analysed from images using elliptic Fourier descriptors and inverse Fourier transformation. The first four principal components accounted for 88.46-92.33% of the total variance and provided a good summary of the overall data. In the case of the ejaculate with defective sperm heads the components accounted for 97.35-98.21% of variation. The study was able to quantitatively confirm that head length to width ratio, which contributed 48.63-53.48% and 71.30-73.34% to the total variance for normal and defective sperm, respectively, was the predominant determining parameter of sperm head shape. There were no statistical significant relationships between Fourier descriptors and values of sperm concentration and/or motility.
Microencapsulation of canine sperm and its preservation at 4 degrees C.	The objective of this study was to develop a preservation method for canine sperm using microencapsulation. Pooled ejaculates from three beagles (Canis familiaris) were extended in egg yolk Tris extender and were encapsulated in gel (alginate only) or polycation (poly-L-lysine membrane bound) microcapsules at 0.75% and 1.0% alginate concentration. In Experiment 1, characteristics of microcapsule and microencapsulated sperm were evaluated during chilling storage for 48 h. Gel microcapsules at 0.75% alginate concentration had a teardrop-like structure with fragility, whereas those at 1.0% alginate had a solid spherical structure. In all groups, diameter of the microcapsules increased with duration of storage (P<0.05). Alginate concentration did not affect the sperm recovery rate from microcapsules. Total average recovery rate of sperm from polycation microcapsules was lower than that of gel microcapsules (P<0.05). Progressive motility of polycation microencapsulated sperm and unencapsulated sperm (control) was higher than that of the gel microencapsulated sperm, both at 0.75% and 1.0% alginate concentration (P<0.05), although viability of sperm was similar among the three groups. In Experiment 2, to evaluate the sperm longevity after chilling storage, sperm were microencapsulated in polycation microcapsules at 1.0% alginate concentration, stored at 4 degrees C for 0, 1, 4, and 7 d, and then cultured at 38.5 degrees C for 0, 6, and 24h. Progressive motility and viability of microencapsulated sperm were higher than those of unencapsulated spermatozoa at 0 to 24h of culture after 4 and 7 d of chilling storage (P<0.05). In conclusion, polycation microencapsulation at 1.0% alginate concentration can be successfully applied for chilling storage of canine sperm by maintaining motility and viability for up to 7 d.
Competition drives cooperation among closely related sperm of deer mice.	Among the extraordinary adaptations driven by sperm competition is the cooperative behaviour of spermatozoa. By forming cooperative groups, sperm can increase their swimming velocity and thereby gain an advantage in intermale sperm competition. Accordingly, selection should favour cooperation of the most closely related sperm to maximize fitness. Here we show that sperm of deer mice (genus Peromyscus) form motile aggregations, then we use this system to test predictions of sperm cooperation. We find that sperm aggregate more often with conspecific than heterospecific sperm, suggesting that individual sperm can discriminate on the basis of genetic relatedness. Next, we provide evidence that the cooperative behaviour of closely related sperm is driven by sperm competition. In a monogamous species lacking sperm competition, Peromyscus polionotus, sperm indiscriminately group with unrelated conspecific sperm. In contrast, in the highly promiscuous deer mouse, Peromyscus maniculatus, sperm are significantly more likely to aggregate with those obtained from the same male than with sperm from an unrelated conspecific donor. Even when we test sperm from sibling males, we continue to see preferential aggregations of related sperm in P. maniculatus. These results suggest that sperm from promiscuous deer mice discriminate among relatives and thereby cooperate with the most closely related sperm, an adaptation likely to have been driven by sperm competition.
Evidence for the function of hyperactivated motility in sperm.	After insemination, mammalian sperm undergo a striking change in flagellar beat pattern, termed hyperactivation. In low-viscosity culture medium, nonhyperactivated sperm flagella generate relatively symmetrical, low-amplitude waves, while hyperactivated sperm flagella generate an asymetrical beating pattern that results in nonprogressive movement. Since sperm encounter highly viscous and viscoelastic fluids in the female reproductive tract, the progress of hyperactivated sperm was compared with that of nonhyperactivated and transitional sperm in media of increasing viscosity. Hamster sperm obtained from the caudal epididymis were incubated in a medium that promotes capacitation. After 0, 3, and 4 h of incubation, the majority of the sperm exhibited, respectively, activated, transitional, and hyperactivated motility. At each of these time points, aliquots of sperm were removed from incubation and added to solutions of 0, 5%, 10%, 20%, and 30% Ficoll in medium. Samples containing mostly hyperactivated sperm (4 h) maintained higher swimming and flagellar velocities and were able to generate greater forces in response to increased viscous loading than activated sperm (0 h). Transitional sperm (3 h) showed an intermediate response. The paths of hyperactivated sperm through solutions of 20% and 30% Ficoll were considerably straighter than those made through medium alone. This is the first demonstration that hyperactivation can confer a mechanical advantage upon sperm in the oviduct where they may encounter viscous oviductal fluid and a viscoelastic cumulus matrix.
Sperm nuclear vacuoles, as assessed by motile sperm organellar morphological examination, are mostly of acrosomal origin.	Microinjection of nuclear vacuole-free spermatozoa selected by motile sperm organellar morphological examination (MSOME) has been claimed to enhance assisted reproduction treatment outcome compared with intracytoplasmic sperm injection. However, the nature of these nuclear vacuoles is unclear, since their localization at the front of the sperm head suggests they might be of acrosomal origin. To study this hypothesis, acrosomal status was evaluated using Pisum sativum agglutinin staining on a smear, together with sperm organellar morphological examination using the same optics as for MSOME on 30 sperm samples from infertile patients, yielding >3200 spermatozoa. Vacuoles were present in 61% of spermatozoa when acrosomal material or intact acrosomes were observed, versus 29% when spermatozoa were acrosome reacted (P<0.0001). Induction of the acrosomal reaction by ionophore A23587 from 17.4% to 36.1% significantly increased the percentage of vacuole-free spermatozoa from 41.2% to 63.8% (P<0.001). These data suggest that most nuclear vacuoles are of acrosomal origin. Hence, the best spermatozoa selected by MSOME are mostly acrosome-reacted spermatozoa. As microinjection of spermatozoa with a persistent acrosome drastically hampers embryo development in animal models, this suggests that the improvement in pregnancy rates reported following intracytoplasmic injection of morphologically selected sperm might be due to the procedure allowing injection of acrosome-reacted spermatozoa.
The effects of severity of oligozoospermia on Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) cycle outcome.	The objective of this study was to explore the relationship between the severity of oligozoospermia and the development of embryos and clinical outcome in patients undergoing ICSI. A total of 908 intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles involving women of < or =37 years of age were included in this study. The patients were divided into four treatment groups according to the results of an analysis of their husbands' semen: (A) mild oligozoospermia that ranged from 10 x 10(6)/ml to <20 x 10(6)/ml (n=283), (B) mild to severe oligozoospermia that ranged from 5 x 10(6)/ml to <10 x 10(6)/ml (n=192), (C) severe oligospermia that ranged from 1 x10(6)/ml to <5 x 10(6)/ml (n=259), and (D) very severe oligozoospermia that ranged from 0 to <1 x10(6)/ml (n=174). Two pronuclei (PN) oocytes at MII were injected and the development of high quality embryos on day 2, as well blastocyst formation rate on day 5, the implantation rate, clinical pregnancies, and fetal loss, were examined. A lower percentage of two pronuclei (2PN) oocytes in the very severe oligozoospermia group was observed, however, there was no difference in clinical outcome when the oligozoospermic patients were divided by sperm concentration. In addition, no significant difference was detected in zygote production or clinical outcome between spermatozoa with a motility of <40% and spermatozoa with a motility of > or =40%. The results of this study emphasize the importance of selecting good quality sperm for oocyte injection, especially in cases involving very severe oligozoospermia.
Good-quality semen recovered from a paraplegic man with physostigmine salicylate treatment. A case report.	A subcutaneous injection of physostigmine was employed to treat paraplegic anejaculation. The sperm motility was greater than in previously reported studies in which electroejaculation techniques were used for seminal emission.
Human follicular fluid stimulates the motility of washed human sperm.	Human follicular fluid (hFF) was collected by laparoscopic oocyte pickup during IVF to evaluate the effect of hFF on human sperm motility with a transmembrane migration method. Freshly ejaculated human sperm were washed with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and mixed with either PBS or hFF. Amplitude of motility increases were 38% and 72% in washed fertile sperm and washed asthenozoospermic sperm when individual control motility was considered to be 100%. The stimulatory effect of hFF was lost when preheated at 100 degrees C for 30 minutes. hFF collected from mature follicles stimulated sperm motility better than that collected from intermediate or immature follicles. hFF did not stimulate the motility of unwashed sperm in freshly ejaculated human semen. A heat labile factor(s) in hFF may stimulate the motility of washed human sperm. Whether this factor could be used to improve the success rate of IVF and artificial insemination awaits further investigation.
A comparison of bovine seminal quality assessments using different viewing chambers with a computer-assisted semen analyzer.	Computer-assisted sperm analysis of fresh and frozen-thawed bovine sperm requires proper handling and preparation, and the type of slide used in the assessment is critical if the resultant data are to be useful quality control measurements. In the present study, 4 different slide viewing chambers, a Makler chamber, a clean slide-coverslip, or a 2- or 4-cell chamber Leja slide, were compared with assess their utility in providing reliable measurements of sperm motility variables. A Hamilton-Thorne IVOS Computer-Assisted Semen Analyzer (CASA) was the instrument used to determine sperm measurements utilizing the 4 different chambers. Fifty-eight different freeze batches of bovine semen that had been collected from 47 bulls at 7 sites that sex-sort sperm using Sexing Technologies sorting criteria were incorporated into the trial. Neither the percentage of motile sperm nor the percentage of progressively motile sperm differed for the Makler chamber vs. slide-coverslip comparisons. Similarly, total and progressively motile sperm did not differ between the 2- and 4-cell chambered Leja slides. However, total and progressive motility of sperm determined with the Makler chamber and slide-coverslip were greater (P < 0.0001) than motilities recorded by the 2- or 4-cell chambered Leja slides. Based on the results, the type of viewing chamber can affect the range of sperm motility values when CASA is used for quality control evaluations of thawed, cryopreserved sex-sorted sperm samples.
GATA4 regulates Sertoli cell function and fertility in adult male mice.	Transcription factor GATA4 is expressed in Sertoli and Leydig cells and is required for proper development of the murine fetal testis. The role of GATA4 in adult testicular function, however, has remained unclear due to prenatal lethality of mice harboring homozygous mutations in Gata4. To characterize the function of GATA4 in the adult testis, we generated mice in which Gata4 was conditionally deleted in Sertoli cells using Cre-LoxP recombination with Amhr2-Cre. Conditional knockout (cKO) mice developed age-dependent testicular atrophy and loss of fertility, which coincided with decreases in the quantity and motility of sperm. Histological analysis demonstrated Sertoli cell vacuolation, impaired spermatogenesis, and increased permeability of the blood-testis barrier. RT-PCR analysis of cKO testes showed decreased expression of germ cell markers and increased expression of testicular injury markers. Our findings support the premise that GATA4 is a key transcriptional regulator of Sertoli cell function in adult mice.
Sperm motility-initiating substance in newt egg-jelly induces differential initiation of sperm motility based on sperm intracellular calcium levels.	Sperm motility-initiating substance (SMIS), a novel motility inducer from newt egg-jelly, is activated by the release from associated jelly substances at the beginning of internal fertilization and affects female-stored sperm. We examined motility initiation kinetics of newt sperm in response to SMIS by monitoring the changes of sperm intracellular calcium ([Ca(+)](i)). In quiescent non-motile sperm loaded with the Ca(+) indicator Fluo-4, intracellular free Ca(+) was observed around mitochondria using confocal scanning laser microscopy. A slight increase in [Ca(+)](i) occurred simultaneously and transiently at motility initiation in sperm treated with either heated jelly extract (hJE) containing activated SMIS, or a low osmotic solution, which naturally initiates motility in externally-fertilizing amphibians and can initiate motility in urodele sperm. When the increase of [Ca(+)](i) at motility-initiation was monitored using spectrofluorometry, large increases in [Ca(+)](i) occurred immediately in the low osmotic solution and within 1.5 min in the hJE. In the intact jelly extract (no heating), small increases of [Ca(+)](i) irregularly occurred from around 1 min and for about 4 min, during which motility was differentially initiated among sperm. These results indicate that the SMIS induces differential initiation of sperm motility depending on the activational states of the SMIS and its overall activity. The motility initiation in the jelly extract was delayed in sperm whose intracellular Ca(+) had been chelated with BAPTA-AM. The relative levels of [Ca(+)](i) were variable with a mean of 414  256 nmol/L among resting sperm, suggesting that the level of [Ca(+)](i) in the resting sperm modulates the responsiveness to the SMIS.
Two distinct Ca(2+) signaling pathways modulate sperm flagellar beating patterns in mice.	Hyperactivation, a swimming pattern of mammalian sperm in the oviduct, is essential for fertilization. It is characterized by asymmetrical flagellar beating and an increase of cytoplasmic Ca(2+). We observed that some mouse sperm swimming in the oviduct produce high-amplitude pro-hook bends (bends in the direction of the hook on the head), whereas other sperm produce high-amplitude anti-hook bends. Switching direction of the major bends could serve to redirect sperm toward oocytes. We hypothesized that different Ca(2+) signaling pathways produce high-amplitude pro-hook and anti-hook bends. In vitro, sperm that hyperactivated during capacitation (because of activation of CATSPER plasma membrane Ca(2+) channels) developed high-amplitude pro-hook bends. The CATSPER activators procaine and 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) also induced high-amplitude pro-hook bends. Thimerosal, which triggers a Ca(2+) release from internal stores, induced high-amplitude anti-hook bends. Activation of CATSPER channels is facilitated by a pH rise, so both Ca(2+) and pH responses to treatments with 4-AP and thimerosal were monitored. Thimerosal triggered a Ca(2+) increase that initiated at the base of the flagellum, whereas 4-AP initiated a rise in the proximal principal piece. Only 4-AP triggered a flagellar pH rise. Proteins were extracted from sperm for examination of phosphorylation patterns induced by Ca(2+) signaling. Procaine and 4-AP induced phosphorylation of proteins on threonine and serine, whereas thimerosal primarily induced dephosphorylation of proteins. Tyrosine phosphorylation was unaffected. We concluded that hyperactivation, which is associated with capacitation, can be modulated by release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores to reverse the direction of the dominant flagellar bend and, thus, redirect sperm.
Effect of butylated hydroxytoluene on dog sperm longevity in chilling storage and cryopreservation.	This study evaluated the effect of butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), a lipid-soluble antioxidant, on dog sperm in chilling storage and cryopreservation. In Experiment 1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 mM BHT were added to egg yolk Tris extender (EYT), and sperm were stored at 4C for 96 hr. Sperm motility, viability, acrosomal integrity and morphological abnormality in the BHT treatment groups were not different from those of the control (0 mM BHT). In Experiment 2, the effect of BHT in EYT containing 0.75% Equex STM paste and 5% glycerol on survivability of cryopreserved sperm was examined after culture at 39C for 3 hr. Sperm motility, viability and acrosomal integrity in the 0.2 to 0.8 mM BHT treatment groups were not different from those of the control. However, sperm motility, viability and acrosomal integrity decreased when 1.6 mM BHT was added to the extender (P<0.05). In conclusion, supplementation of the extender with 0.2 to 0.8 mM BHT did not affect characteristics of dog sperm in chilling storage and cryopreservation. Supplementation of 1.6 mM BHT did not affect characteristics of chilled sperm but impaired longevity of cryopreserved sperm in the dog.
Evaluation of different cryoprotectants (CPAs) in boar semen cryopreservation.	This study was performed to evaluate the use of dimethylacetamide (DMA) and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) in boar sperm cryopreservation. Semen from eight boars was cryopreserved following treatment with 3, 5, and 7% DMA and DMSO, and 3% glycerol (control). After thawing, sperm conventional parameters and membrane integrities were evaluated. There were no significant differences among different DMA concentrations in all evaluations. Membrane intactness were higher in 5% and 7% DMSO than 3% DMSO (P<0.05). Sperm motility of 5% DMSO was lower than that of 3% glycerol (P<0.005), and membrane intactness were lower in 5% DMA and DMSO than 3% glycerol (P<0.05). DMA and DMSO didn't improve sperm quality and glycerol remains the most useful for boar sperm cryopreservation.
Coupling biochemistry and hydrodynamics captures hyperactivated sperm motility in a simple flagellar model.	Hyperactivation in mammalian sperm is characterized by highly asymmetrical waveforms and an increase in the amplitude of flagellar bends. It is important for the sperm to be able to achieve hyperactivated motility in order to reach and fertilize the egg. Calcium (Ca(2+)) dynamics are known to play a large role in the initiation and maintenance of hyperactivated motility. Here we present an integrative model that couples the CatSper channel mediated Ca(2+) dynamics of hyperactivation to a mechanical model of an idealized sperm flagellum in a 3-d viscous, incompressible fluid. The mechanical forces are due to passive stiffness properties and active bending moments that are a function of the local Ca(2+) concentration along the length of the flagellum. By including an asymmetry in bending moments to reflect an asymmetry in the axoneme's response to Ca(2+), we capture the transition from activated motility to hyperactivated motility. We examine the effects of elastic properties of the flagellum and the Ca(2+) dynamics on the overall swimming patterns. The swimming velocities of the model flagellum compare well with data for hyperactivated mouse sperm.
Group X secreted phospholipase A specifically decreases sperm motility in mice.	Different mammalian secreted phospholipases A(2) (sPLA(2) s) are expressed in male reproductive organs and/or in sperm cells but their cellular functions are still not fully characterized. Because several reports indicate a link between cellular lipids and sperm motility, we have investigated the effect of mouse group IIA, IID, IIE, V, and X sPLA(2) s on sperm motility. Among these enzymes, only mouse group X sPLA(2) (mGX sPLA(2) ) acts as a potent inhibitor of sperm motility that decreases track speed (VCL) and lateral displacement of the head (ALH) of both noncapacitated and capacitated sperm. The inhibitory effect of mGX sPLA(2) is dependent on its enzymatic activity because (i) both the proenzyme form of mGX sPLA(2) (pro-mGX) and the H48Q mutant of mGX sPLA(2) have very weak enzymatic activity and are unable to modulate sperm motility and (ii) LY329722, a specific inhibitor of sPLA(2) s, blocks the inhibitory effect of mGX sPLA(2) . Moreover, mGX sPLA(2) exerts a gradual potency on sperm subpopulations with different velocities, an effect which may be linked to the heterogeneity of lipid composition in these sperm subpopulations. Finally, we found that endogenous mGX sPLA(2) released during spontaneous acrosome reaction modulates sperm motility of capacitated sperm. Together, our results suggest a new role of sPLA(2) in sperm physiology where the sPLA2 selects a sperm subpopulation for fertilization based on its effect on sperm motility.
Hydrodynamics of the double-wave structure of insect spermatozoa flagella.	In addition to conventional planar and helical flagellar waves, insect sperm flagella have also been observed to display a double-wave structure characterized by the presence of two superimposed helical waves. In this paper, we present a hydrodynamic investigation of the locomotion of insect spermatozoa exhibiting the double-wave structure, idealized here as superhelical waves. Resolving the hydrodynamic interactions with a non-local slender body theory, we predict the swimming kinematics of these superhelical swimmers based on experimentally collected geometric and kinematic data. Our consideration provides insight into the relative contributions of the major and minor helical waves to swimming; namely, propulsion is owing primarily to the minor wave, with negligible contribution from the major wave. We also explore the dependence of the propulsion speed on geometric and kinematic parameters, revealing counterintuitive results, particularly for the case when the minor and major helical structures are of opposite chirality.
Evaluation of motility, membrane status and DNA integrity of frozen-thawed bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) spermatozoa after sex-sorting and recryopreservation.	Artificial insemination (AI) with sex-sorted frozen-thawed spermatozoa has led to enhanced management of ex situ bottlenose dolphin populations. Extended distance of animals from the sorting facility can be overcome by the use of frozen-thawed, sorted and recryopreserved spermatozoa. Although one bottlenose dolphin calf had been born using sexed frozen-thawed spermatozoa derived from frozen semen, a critical evaluation of in vitro sperm quality is needed to justify the routine use of such samples in AI programs. Sperm motility parameters and plasma membrane integrity were influenced by stage of the sex-sorting process, sperm type (non-sorted and sorted) and freezing method (straw and directional) (P<0.05). After recryopreservation, sorted spermatozoa frozen with the directional freezing method maintained higher (P<0.05) motility parameters over a 24-h incubation period compared to spermatozoa frozen using straws. Quality of sperm DNA of non-sorted spermatozoa, as assessed by the sperm chromatin structure assay (SCSA), was high and remained unchanged throughout freeze-thawing and incubation processes. Though a possible interaction between Hoechst 33342 and the SCSA-derived acridine orange was observed in stained and sorted samples, the proportion of sex-sorted, recryopreserved spermatozoa exhibiting denatured DNA was low (6.64.1%) at 6h after the second thawing step and remained unchanged (P>0.05) at 24h. The viability of sorted spermatozoa was higher (P<0.05) than that of non-sorted spermatozoa across all time points after recryopreservation. Collective results indicate that bottlenose dolphin spermatozoa undergoing cryopreservation, sorting and recryopreservation are of adequate quality for use in AI.
Restoration of seminal plasma to stallion spermatozoa selected by colloid centrifugation increases sperm progressive motility but is detrimental to chromatin integrity.	There is controversy about whether the presence of some seminal plasma (SP) in an equine insemination dose is necessary for promoting fertility. A new technique for improving stallion sperm quality, single layer centrifugation (SLC) using a species-specific colloid, Androcoll-E, selects a sperm subpopulation that is highly motile with normal morphology, intact membranes and good chromatin integrity from the rest of the ejaculate and removes SP. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of restoring homologous SP (5% and 10%) on the progressive motility, velocity, and chromatin integrity of SLC-selected stallion spermatozoa in 44 semen samples over time. Sperm progressive motility (P<0.01) and the proportion with class A velocity (>50 m/sec) were increased in samples where SP was restored, whereas the proportion with class B velocity (10 to 50 m/sec) was decreased compared with SLC samples. However, after 24 h cold storage of treated samples, progressive motility was not different for the SP-treated groups compared with SLC, whereas chromatin damage DNA fragmentation index (%DFI) was higher. In contrast, adding SP to untreated 24 h-stored SLC samples did not affect progressive motility although it did increase the proportion of spermatozoa with class A velocity. There was individual variation between stallions whether 5% or 10% SP produced a greater increase in progressive motility. In conclusion, 5% to 10% SP can be added back to SLC-selected samples if considered necessary to optimize fertility. However, it should be added immediately before insemination rather than before storage of the sperm dose, to benefit from the transient increase in sperm progressive motility and avoid increased chromatin damage.
Microfluidic mixing for sperm activation and motility analysis of pearl Danio zebrafish.	Sperm viability in aquatic species is increasingly being evaluated by motility analysis via computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) following activation of sperm with manual dilution and mixing by hand. User variation can limit the speed and control over the activation process, preventing consistent motility analysis. This is further complicated by the short interval (i.e., less than 15 s) of burst motility in these species. The objectives of this study were to develop a staggered herringbone microfluidic mixer to: 1) activate small volumes of Danio pearl zebrafish (Danio albolineatus) sperm by rapid mixing with diluent, and 2) position sperm in a viewing chamber for motility evaluation using a standard CASA system. A herringbone micromixer was fabricated in polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) to yield high quality smooth surfaces. Based on fluorescence microscopy, mixing efficiency exceeding 90% was achieved within 5 s for a range of flow rates (from 50 to 250 L/h), with a correlation of mixing distances and mixing efficiency. For example, at the nominal flow rate of 100 L/h, there was a significant difference in mixing efficiency between 3.5 mm (754%; meanSD) and 7 mm (922%; P=0.002). The PDMS micromixer, integrated with standard volumetric slides, demonstrated activation of fresh zebrafish sperm with reduced user variation, greater control, and without morphologic damage to sperm. Analysis of zebrafish sperm viability by CASA revealed a statistically higher motility rate for activation by micromixing (564%) than manual activation (457%; n=5, P=0.011). This micromixer represented a first step in streamlining methods for consistent, rapid assessment of sperm quality for zebrafish and other aquatic species. The capability to rapidly activate sperm and consistently measure motility with CASA using the PDMS micromixer described herein will improve studies of germplasm physiology and cryopreservation.
Computer assisted sperm analysis of motility patterns of postthawed epididymal spermatozoa of springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis), impala (Aepyceros melampus), and blesbok (Damaliscus dorcus phillipsi) incubated under conditions supporting domestic cattle in vitro fertilization.	The need for information on the reproductive physiology of different wildlife species is important for ex situ conservation using such methods as in vitro fertilization (IVF). Information on species reproductive physiology and evaluation of sperm quality using accurate, objective, repeatable methods, such as computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) for ex situ conservation has become a priority. The aim of this study was to evaluate motility patterns of antelope epididymal spermatozoa incubated for 4 h under conditions that support bovine IVF using CASA. Cauda epididymal spermatozoa were collected postmortem from testicles of springbok (N=38), impala (N=26), and blesbok (N=42), and cryopreserved in biladyl containing 7% glycerol. Spermatozoa were thawed and incubated in Capacitation media and modified Tyrode lactate (m-TL) IVF media using a protocol developed for domestic cattle IVF. The study evaluates 14 motility characteristics of the antelope epididymal sperm at six time points using CASA. Species differences in CASA parameters evaluated under similar conditions were observed. Several differences in individual motility parameters at the time points were reported for each species. Epididymal sperm of the different antelope species responded differently to capacitation agents exhibiting variations in hyperactivity. Motility parameters that describe the vigor of sperm decreased over time. Spermatozoa from the different antelope species have different physiological and optimal capacitation and in vitro culture requirements. The interspecies comparison of kinematic parameters of spermatozoa between the antelopes over several end points contributes to comparative sperm physiology which forms an important step in the development of species specific assisted reproductive techniques (ARTs) for ex situ conservation of these species.
Differences in the ability of spermatozoa from individual boar ejaculates to withstand different semen-processing techniques.	The present study aimed to evaluate the ability of spermatozoa from individual boar ejaculates to withstand different semen-processing techniques. Eighteen sperm-rich ejaculate samples from six boars (three per boar) were diluted in Beltsville Thawing Solution and split into three aliquots. The aliquots were (1) further diluted to 310(7) sperm/mL and stored as a liquid at 17C for 72 h, (2) frozen-thawed (FT) at 110(9) sperm/mL using standard 0.5-mL straw protocols, or (3) sex-sorted with subsequent liquid storage (at 17C for 6 h) or FT (210(7) sperm/mL using a standard 0.25-mL straw protocol). The sperm quality was evaluated based on total sperm motility (the CASA system), viability (plasma membrane integrity assessed using flow cytometry and the LIVE/DEAD Sperm Viability Kit), lipid peroxidation (assessed via indirect measurement of the generation of malondialdehyde (MDA) using the BIOXYTECH MDA-586 Assay Kit) and DNA fragmentation (sperm chromatin dispersion assessed using the Sperm-Sus-Halomax() test). Data were normalized to the values assessed for the fresh (for liquid-stored and FT samples) or the sorted semen samples (for liquid stored and the FT sorted spermatozoa). All of the four sperm-processing techniques affected sperm quality (P<0.01), regardless of the semen donor, with reduced percentages of motile and viable sperm and increased MDA generation and percentages of sperm with fragmented DNA. Significant (P<0.05) inter-boar (effect of boars within each semen-processing technique) and intra-boar (effect of semen-processing techniques within each boar) differences were evident for all of the sperm quality parameters assessed, indicating differences in the ability of spermatozoa from individual boars to withstand the semen-processing techniques. These results are the first evidence that ejaculate spermatozoa from individual boars can respond in a boar-dependent manner to different semen-processing techniques.
Human spermatozoa migration in microchannels reveals boundary-following navigation.	The migratory abilities of motile human spermatozoa in vivo are essential for natural fertility, but it remains a mystery what properties distinguish the tens of cells which find an egg from the millions of cells ejaculated. To reach the site of fertilization, sperm must traverse narrow and convoluted channels, filled with viscous fluids. To elucidate individual and group behaviors that may occur in the complex three-dimensional female tract environment, we examine the behavior of migrating sperm in assorted microchannel geometries. Cells rarely swim in the central part of the channel cross-section, instead traveling along the intersection of the channel walls ("channel corners"). When the channel turns sharply, cells leave the corner, continuing ahead until hitting the opposite wall of the channel, with a distribution of departure angles, the latter being modulated by fluid viscosity. If the channel bend is smooth, cells depart from the inner wall when the curvature radius is less than a threshold value close to 150m. Specific wall shapes are able to preferentially direct motile cells. As a consequence of swimming along the corners, the domain occupied by cells becomes essentially one-dimensional, leading to frequent collisions, and needs to be accounted for when modeling the behavior of populations of migratory cells and considering how sperm populate and navigate the female tract. The combined effect of viscosity and three-dimensional architecture should be accounted for in future in vitro studies of sperm chemoattraction.
Src family tyrosine kinase regulates acrosome reaction but not motility in porcine spermatozoa.	During the capacitation process, spermatozoa acquire the ability to fertilize an oocyte, and upregulation of cAMP-dependent protein tyrosine phosphorylation occurs. Recently, Src family tyrosine kinase (SFK) has been involved in spermatozoa capacitation as a key PKA-dependent tyrosine kinase in several species. This work investigates the expression and role of SFK in porcine spermatozoa. SFK members Lyn and Yes are identified in porcine spermatozoa by western blotting as well as two proteins named SFK1 and SFK2 were also detected by their tyrosine 416 phosphorylation, a key residue for SFK activation. Spermatozoa with SFK1 and SFK2 increase their Y416 phosphorylation time-dependently under capacitating conditions compared with noncapacitating conditions. The specific SFK inhibitor SU6656 unaffected porcine spermatozoa motility or viability. Moreover, SFK inhibition in spermatozoa under capacitating conditions leads to a twofold increase in both nonstimulated and calcium-induced acrosome reaction. Our data show that capacitating conditions lead to a time-dependent increase in actin polymerization in boar spermatozoa and that long-term incubation with SFK inhibitor causes a reduction in the F-actin content. In summary, this work shows that the SFK members Lyn and Yes are expressed in porcine spermatozoa and that SFK1 and SFK2 are phosphorylated (activated) during capacitation. Our results point out the important role exerted by SFK in the acrosome reaction, likely mediated in part by its involvement in the actin polymerization process that accompanies capacitation, and rule out its involvement in porcine spermatozoa motility.
The usefulness of combining traditional sperm assessments with in vitro heterospermic insemination to identify bulls of low fertility as estimated in vivo.	To date, no single in vitro assessment can estimate bull fertility. This research was aimed at evaluating the ability of a series of laboratory assessments to assign 50 Holstein Friesian bulls grouped as low (ER-NRR<-1.5), medium (-0.5<ER-NRR<+0.5) and high (ER-NRR+1.5) fertility based on estimated relative non-return rates (ER-NRR), to the two categories of low and medium-high fertility. Heterospermic insemination with a Piedmontese reference bull was employed to define an index of competitive binding ability (CBI) to the zona pellucida using fluorochrome-labeled sperm, and a competitive fertility index (CFI) using embryo paternal assignment by single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). Furthermore, kinetic parameters, membrane integrity and sperm DNA/chromatin integrity (% DFI) were assayed. Low fertility bulls had lesser (P<0.05) values for total motility and membrane integrity, and a greater value of % DFI as compared to medium and high fertility groups. A modest (P<0.001) correlation was reported among ER-NRR and total motility (r=0.30), progressive motility (r=0.26), membrane integrity (r=0.43) and % DFI (r=-0.26). While % DFI alone allowed the identification of 70% lowly fertile bulls, combining membrane integrity, average path velocity and CBI allowed for identification of 78% of the lowly fertile sires. Paternal assignment by SNPs resulted in 96% of successful assignments and could provide an alternative support to microsatellites for in vivo studies based on heterospermic fertilization for estimating fertility.
Impaired fertilizing ability of superoxide dismutase 1-deficient mouse sperm during in vitro fertilization.	The oxidative modification of gametes by a reactive oxygen species is a major deleterious factor that decreases the successful rate of in vitro fertilization. Superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) plays a pivotal role in antioxidation by scavenging the superoxide anion, and its deficiency causes infertility in female mice, but the significance of the enzyme in male mice remains unclear. In the present study, we characterized Sod1(-/-) (Sod1-KO) male reproductive organs and compiled the first report of the impaired fertilizing ability of Sod1-KO sperm in in vitro fertilization. Insemination of wild-type oocytes with Sod1-KO sperm exhibited lower rates of fertility compared with insemination by wild-type sperm. The low fertilizing ability found for Sod1-KO sperm was partially rescued by reductant 2-mercaptoethanol, which suggested the oxidative modification of sperm components. The numbers of motile and progressive sperm decreased during the in vitro fertilization process, and a decline in ATP content and elevation in lipid peroxidation occurred in the Sod1-KO sperm in an incubation time-dependent manner. Tyrosine phosphorylation, which is a hallmark for sperm capacitation, was also impaired in the Sod1-KO sperm. These results collectively suggest that machinery involved in sperm capacitation and motility are vulnerable to oxidative damage during the in vitro fertilization process, which could increase the rate of inefficient fertilization.
Treatment of human sperm with serine protease during density gradient centrifugation.	Seminal pathogens can bind specifically or non-specifically to spermatozoa, rendering semen decontamination procedures ineffective, whereby vertical or horizontal transmission of the infection could occur. Serine proteases have been demonstrated to effectively inactivate viruses and to break pathogen-sperm bonds. However, the addition of a protease to density gradient layers during semen processing could negatively impact on sperm parameters. This study investigated the effect of the addition of a recombinant, human-sequence protease (rhProtease) on sperm parameters during density gradient centrifugation.
Absence of reproductive and developmental toxicity in rats following exposure to a 20-kHz or 60-kHz magnetic field.	The use of intermediate frequency (IF) magnetic fields (MFs) in occupational equipment and domestic appliances, such as inductive heating cookers, is increasing. The WHO indicated a lack of scientific evidence needed to assess the health risk of exposure to IF MFs. Male and female rats (24/group) were exposed to a 20 kHz, 0.2 mT(rms) or 60 kHz, 0.1 mT(rms) sinusoidal MF for 22 h/day from 14 days prior to and during mating. Copulated females were exposed until gestation day 7 and sacrificed thereafter. Mated males were sacrificed to examine MF exposure effects on spermatogenesis. Reproductive examinations were blinded, and experiments were duplicated per frequency to ensure reproducibility. No statistically significant, exposure-related changes were found in the estrous cycle, copulation and fertility indices, numbers of corpora lutea and implantation sites, or pre- and postimplantation loss. No reproducible changes were observed in sperm count, motility, or morphological abnormality, or in the weights of testes and epididymides after MF exposure. No significant abnormalities were observed in gross pathology or histopathology of the uterus, ovary, testis, and epididymis in the MF- or sham-exposed groups. MF exposure during the preimplantation period was not toxic to fertility or early embryogenesis under the experimental conditions.
Sperm sorting based on the imitation of the physiological process on the microfluidic chip]	To establish a new method for sperm sorting by imitating the physiological process of sperm-cervical mucus interaction on the microfluidic chip.
Vitamin E (Trolox) addition to Tris-egg yolk extender preserves ram spermatozoon structure and kinematics after cryopreservation.	Several studies reveal that vitamin E acts as a cellular stabilizer of unsaturated lipids against oxidative deterioration, thus maintaining structural and functional integrity at the subcellular level. The objective of this study was to evaluate Vitamin E (Trolox) addition to freezing extender for ram spermatozoa. Semen samples were diluted in Tris-yolk egg medium without antioxidant (control group) and with Trolox in different concentrations (30, 60 and 120M). After thawing (37C/30s), samples were subjected to analysis for plasma membrane integrity (PMi), acrosome integrity (Aci), mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), sperm kinematics, and ultrastructural integrity. The Trolox 60 and 120M groups showed higher percentages of iPMs (P<0.05) when compared to the control group. Differences were observed among groups in sperm kinematic indicators (progressive motility, linearity, straightness, oscillation index, straight-line velocity and average path velocity), with higher values (P<0.05) for the Trolox 60 and 120M groups. On ultrastructural assessment, Trolox addition at the three concentrations preserved spermatozoon head plasma membranes, while for the spermatozoon tail, plasma membrane preservation at 60M was higher (P<0.05) than the other groups. The Trolox 60 and 120M groups presented more mitochondrial ultrastructural preservation than the other groups (P<0.05). These results indicate that Trolox addition to Tris-egg yolk at 60 and 120M provides greater structural integrity (plasma membrane and mitochondria) and kinematics for ram spermatozoa after cryopreservation. 
Role of nitric oxide in motility and fertilizing ability of sperm of Heteropneustes fossilis (Bloch.).	The presence of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), inducible NOS (iNOS) and nitric oxide (NO) in the testis of seasonally breeding catfish has previously been demonstrated. The present study was aimed to investigate the presence of NO in fish gametes and its role in sperm physiology and strengthen the previous findings. NO, a biological signalling molecule is synthesized during the conversion of l-arginine to l-citrulline by nitric oxide synthases (NOS) in the presence of NADPH and oxygen. In the present study, a considerable amount of NO content was detected in the fresh sperm suspension of fish. A drastic reduction in NO content of the sperm suspension was observed after cryopreservation. Ovarian fluid collected from freshly stripped eggs also contained a substantial amount of NO. Further, effects of a NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and NOS inhibitor, N-(G)-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (l-NAME) were evaluated on motility and fertilizing ability of fresh and cryopreserved sperm. The percentage of motile fresh sperm (66.23.7%) was enhanced (P<0.05) by SNP at the dose of 10(-3)M, whereas the greater and lesser concentrations of SNP did not influence the percentage of motility as compared to the control. However, a significant reduction in the percentage of motile fresh sperm was observed at the tested doses of 10(-3)M and 10(-4)M of l-NAME. The maximum reduction (23.03.4%) was evoked at the greatest concentration (10(-3)M); while at the smallest dose of 10(-5)M, reduction was insignificant. Ovarian fluid also enhanced sperm motility. Altogether, findings of the present study suggest that NO plays an important role in sperm performance of fish. 
Male urogenital infections: impact of infection and inflammation on ejaculate parameters.	Urogenital infections and inflammation may contribute significantly to ejaculate parameters essential for male infertility.
Varicocele decreases epididymal neutral -glucosidase and is associated with alteration of nuclear DNA and plasma membrane in spermatozoa.	To assess the relationship between a marker of epididymal function and both the fragmentation of the sperm nucleus and the integrity and maturity of the sperm membrane in patients with or without varicocele.
Premises for fowl sperm preservation based on applied bioenergetics.	The primary goal of this work was to test whether the sperm mobility assay could be used to derive mathematical relationships from which predictions could be made about sperm cell function. A precondition was random sampling from a pool of sperm. This precondition was met by centrifuging mobile sperm through 12% (wt/vol) Accudenz containing the Ca(2+) chelator 1,2-bis-(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) and then holding washed sperm at 20C within buffered potassium chloride. These 2 conditions rendered washed sperm immobile at 20C. Resumption of sperm mobility was independent of time (P > 0.8558) when sperm were reactivated at body temperature with 2 mM Ca(2+) in isotonic sodium chloride at pH 7.4. Reactivated sperm mobility was 93% of the prewash control. Subsequent experiments served to define a dose response, predict optimal conditions for in vitro sperm mobility, and show how sperm can recover from an imposed non-physiological condition. Thus, functions were derived from which predictions were made. Whereas the utility of BAPTA treatment was confirmed in a new context, such utility did not address the question of whole-cell Ca(2+) flux during sperm cell manipulation. This issue is pivotal for the application of bioenergetics to fowl sperm preservation. Therefore, the secondary goal of this research was to investigate sperm cell Ca(2+) flux using a simulation of conditions encountered by sperm during centrifugation through 12% (wt/vol) Accudenz. These conditions included a temperature of 30C, a Ca(2+) sink, and no exogenous substrate. Sperm motion was measured with a Hobson SpermTracker. Data points conformed to parabolic functions when motile concentration and velocity were plotted as functions of time. In each case, maximums were observed, e.g., 26 min for motile concentration. The upswing was attributed to a redistribution of intracellular Ca(2+) whereas the downswing was attributed to sperm cell Ca(2+) depletion. A pronounced isothermal increase was observed for each variable when the Ca(2+) sink was overcome with exogenous Ca(2+). Experimental outcomes supported four testable premises applicable to fowl sperm preservation research: 1) the importance of sperm mobility phenotype, 2) the relationship between mitochondrial Ca(2+) cycling and sperm mobility, 3) the utility of the sperm mobility assay for predicting experimental outcomes, and 4) understanding mitochondrial Ca(2+) cycling in terms of whole-cell Ca(2+) flux.
Egg yolk and glycerol requirements for freezing boar spermatozoa treated with methyl -cyclodextrin or cholesterol-loaded cyclodextrin.	Egg yolk (EY) and glycerol are common constituents of extenders used for sperm cryopreservation. It has been demonstrated that using cholesterol-loaded cyclodextrins (CLC) improves sperm cryosurvival in several species. However, standard freezing extenders might not be the most appropriate for CLC-treated sperm. This study evaluated the EY and glycerol requirements for freezing CLC-treated boar spermatozoa. Semen samples from 34 ejaculates coming from 4 boars were used. Each ejaculate was split into three aliquots: one was used untreated (control), and the other two were treated with 1 mg of CLC or methyl--cyclodextrin/120  10(6) sperm for 15 min at 22 C prior to cryopreservation. Our results indicated that reducing the concentration of EY was detrimental for sperm viability after thawing (31.57  2 vs. 19.89%  2 for 20 and 10% EY, respectively; P <0.05), even in semen treated with CLC. On the other hand, it was observed that the traditional concentration of glycerol (3%) was not the appropriate for freezing CLC-treated sperm (61.10  3 vs. 47.87%  3 viable sperm for control and CLC-treated sperm, respectively; P <0.05). Thus, CLC-treated sperm showed a higher tolerance to high glycerol concentrations (5%) in terms of sperm viability (59.19%  3) than non-treated sperm (45.58%  3; P<0.05). Therefore, it could be necessary to modify the freezing extenders for CLC-treated sperm. Nevertheless, additional studies will be needed to evaluate alternative cryoprotectants and to determine the effect of high glycerol concentrations on sperm functionality. 
GPI-anchored protein complex, LY6K/TEX101, is required for sperm migration into the oviduct and male fertility in mice.	A disintegrin and metallopeptidase domain 3 (ADAM3) is a sperm membrane protein reported to be critical for both sperm migration from the uterus into the oviduct in vivo and sperm binding to the zona pellucida in vitro. In order for ADAM3 to be expressed on the sperm surface, the interaction with testis-expressed gene 101 (TEX101), a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein, is essential. Without TEX101, ADAM3 is degraded during sperm transition through the epididymis. However, it is also known that TEX101 has to be shed and to disappear from testicular germ cells (TGCs) by the GPI-anchored protein-releasing activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) for the correct localization of ADAM3 on the mature sperm surface to take place. Here, we found that in a mouse line with a disruption for another testis-specific GPI-anchored protein, lymphocyte antigen 6 complex, locus K (LY6K), the male mice became infertile and demonstrated a phenotype similar to that found in Adam3(-/-), Tex101(-/-), and Ace(-/-) mice. LY6K interacted with TEX101 and ADAM3 in the TGCs but disappeared from mature spermatozoa. Differing from more than 10 previously known gene knockout mouse lines that showed male infertility by impaired sperm migration into the oviduct, spermatozoa from Ly6K(-/-) mice had no aberrance in ADAM3. Thus, LY6K is a newly identified factor involved in sperm fertilizing ability. The lack of effect on ADAM3 in Ly6K(-/-) mice is indicative of an as yet undefined pathway in the mouse. 
Effects of cryopreservation on the human sperm acrosome and its response to A23187.	The proportion of human spermatozoa from 28 ejaculates to lose their acrosomes during cryopreservation was measured and correlated with the number that became immotile or lost the integrity of their plasma membrane. The ability of washed spermatozoa to acrosome react in response to A23187 before and after cryopreservation was compared. Motility was assessed by time-lapse photography; intact acrosomes were stained with fluorescein conjugated Pisum sativum agglutinin and dead spermatozoa were stained with bisbenzimide (H33258). Twenty-four per cent of spermatozoa lost their acrosomes during freezing and thawing, but the number that did so was not correlated with the number that became immotile or non-viable. Frozen spermatozoa exhibited fewer spontaneous acrosome reactions than did fresh spermatozoa (5 versus 13% after 4 h), but they responded to A23187 in a similar way. Although frozen spermatozoa were significantly more likely to die during the incubation, the data do not suggest that degenerative acrosome loss had a major influence on the results. In the hamster egg test frozen-thawed spermatozoa achieved more penetrations than did fresh spermatozoa when stimulated with 0 or 1 mumol A23187 l-1 but considerably fewer when stimulated with 4 mumol A23187 l-1. The following conclusions were made. First, cryopreservation damage to the acrosome, the plasma membrane and the flagellum can occur independently. Second, acrosome function is maintained after cryopreservation as long as the organelle remains mechanically intact. Third, some spermatozoa that lose their acrosomes during cryopreservation remain viable and can fuse with zona-free hamster eggs.
The regulation of sperm motility by a novel hyaluronan receptor.	To determine if a novel receptor for hyaluronan, termed RHAMM, is responsible for the previously observed increase in sperm locomotion in response to hyaluronan and to assess whether expression of the RHAMM protein is involved in sperm motility.
The immunohistochemical localization of alpha 2-macroglobulin in rat testes is consistent with its role in germ cell movement and spermiation.	alpha 2-Macroglobulin (alpha 2-MG) is a nonspecific protease inhibitor and binding protein for peptide hormones that was recently isolated from Sertoli cell-enriched culture medium and shown to be the same protein as alpha 2-MG in serum. The present study was conducted to determine the localization of alpha 2-MG in the seminiferous epithelium in order to gain insight into its possible site(s) of action. Immunostainable alpha 2-MG was present in the lumen of the tubules consistent with its proposed role as a protease inhibitor needed to inactivate the protease released from defective spermatozoa in the male reproductive tract. Immunoreactive alpha 2-MG was also localized adjacent to the heads of elongated spermatids, the most mobile cells in the seminiferous epithelium; immunostainable alpha 2-MG was not observed adjacent to round spermatids and spermatocytes, which are relatively less mobile. The intensity of the staining around the elongated spermatids was dependent on the stage of the spermatogenic cycle. Stainable alpha 2-MG was present adjacent to the spermatids in stage XI soon after the elongation process began. Immunoreactive product was in stages XI-XIV but only faintly visible. The most intense staining reaction for alpha 2-MG was in stages I-VI; it was reduced in stage VII; and virtually no alpha 2-MG was detectable in stages VIII-X at and just after spermiation. The postnatal changes of alpha 2-MG in the testis was also examined. During the first 2 weeks after birth, alpha 2-MG was not detected in the seminiferous epithelium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Role of endocrine factors in male infertility.	On the evidence of physical examination, history, and semen analysis, endocrinological alteration is suspected in the background of infertility in about one third of the husbands of couples consulting a doctor because of childless marriage. The data of 206 male patients have been processed, and in 71 cases the serum FSH, LH, prolactin and testosterone contents were examined. Statistical analysis was performed for the relationship between gonadotropic hormones and testosterone level, and between the sperm motility and the FSH level, the results of which are presented here.
Evaluation of the role of reactive oxygen species in male infertility.	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production from spermatozoa has been measured by chemiluminescence in the two fractions of a Percoll gradient column (47 and 90%). Chemiluminescent signals were recorded in each fraction after the addition of luminol and horse-radish peroxidase (basal state), and after stimulation with formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine and phorbol ester (PMA). Oligozoospermic samples show a higher rate of ROS production than the normozoospermic samples in both fractions of Percoll. Also, ROS were generated at a higher rate by asthenozoospermic samples in the 90% Percoll fraction than by normal samples after stimulation with PMA. Our data confirm that fact that white blood cells play a major role in the production of ROS, even after purification on a Percoll gradient. Immunological cases were also found to be associated with an increased production of ROS, which may be caused by the same underlying pathological condition responsible for the production of the antibodies. Repeated centrifugation of the samples triggers a burst of ROS in excess of that produced after Percoll preparation. In addition, superoxide dismutase activity was found to be significantly increased in cases with an elevated production of ROS. It is concluded that measuring the ROS generation by semen may yield useful information on the functional capacity of spermatozoa, which may be used to improve the success of male infertility management.
Comparative analysis of motility characteristics of Percoll-selected spermatozoa populations from fresh and cryopreserved semen.	The proportion and quality of motility of spermatozoa in normozoospermic ejaculates were assessed using computer-assisted semen analysis. The ejaculate was split and the motility re-assessed following separation on a Percoll gradient with or without cryomedium and cryopreservation. Cryopreservation caused a significant decrease in the proportion of motile spermatozoa and in their velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement. The initial decrease in the proportion of motile spermatozoa was found to be in part an effect of the cryomedium. The use of Percoll gradient separation did not initially change these effects but after 4 h incubation differences in velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement between samples were no longer evident. Percoll-selected, cryopreserved spermatozoa had both a stable proportion of motile spermatozoa and a stable velocity for at least 48 h, whereas in fresh spermatozoa populations, similarly separated using Percoll, the proportion of motile spermatozoa had decreased by 24 h and the velocity was lower at 48 h. Percoll preparation is an effective method for the selection of motile spermatozoa from cryopreserved semen which, after a short incubation, have similar motility characteristics to fresh spermatozoa.
Characterization of zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) sperm morphology and their motility prior to and after spawning.	In order to understand more about the reproductive physiology of the zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha), we have examined the effect of spawning on the kinematics and fertilization ability of their spermatozoa. Sperm morphology was characterized using scanning electron microscopy, differences in sperm kinematics were examined using CASA following manual collection of sperm from the gonad or spawning induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and the fertilization ability of spawned and manually removed spermatozoa were compared. D. polymorpha sperm have a tail 50 microns long, a midpiece consisting of four spherical mitochondria-rich regions approximately 0.6 micron in diameter, a conical nucleus 2.52 microns in length, and a cylindrical acrosome 0.72 micron in height and width. Kinematic analysis revealed that manually removed sperm exhibit significantly lower motion characteristics as compared to spawned sperm. Treatment with 5-HT had no significant effect on the sperm kinematics of either manually removed or spawned spermatozoa. These data suggest that D. polymorpha spermatozoa have a similar morphology to other bivalve sperm, spawning results in a significant enhancement in sperm kinematics, and 5-HT does not directly alter sperm motion.
Development of sperm motility patterns in the murine epididymis.	The maturation of sperm motility in the epididymis of the mouse was assessed using a computer-assisted sperm analysis system. Spermatozoa were immotile in the most proximal regions of the epididymis but developed motility rapidly in the proximal caput epididymis; the percentage motility remained high thereafter. In the caput, flagellar beat was erratic with little progression, but in the proximal corpus region circular movement patterns were reflected in reduced linearity (LIN) and straightness (STR) of the sperm tracks, although velocities were little changed and wobble (WOB) increased. In the mid-corpus region, however, all velocities, LIN, STR and WOB, increased markedly. In more distal regions there was little change in these parameters. Distribution curves of the kinematic parameters of spermatozoa obtained from each region indicated that the most heterogeneous population was that from the mid-corpus epididymis; the most homogeneous was that from the mid-cauda region. Individual sperm tracks revealed slowly progressing spermatozoa in the distal caput, transforming to motion in small circles, interrupted by more linear progression. More distally, linear progression was interrupted by looping movements and a generally progressive path was observed thereafter, with less deviation from the average path as the spermatozoa matured. Spermatozoa displaying motion compatible with passing the uterotubal junction were first found in the proximal corpus epididymis, in agreement with earlier in-vivo fertilization studies on where fertilizing capacity is achieved with epididymal spermatozoa.
Seminal fluid analysis and sperm function testing.	The diagnosis of male infertility is a rapidly developing field of investigation. The traditional descriptive approach to semen analysis is still at the heart of the diagnostic workup of male patients and important advances have been made in the standardization of the procedures used to construct the conventional semen profile, as embodied in the WHO handbook. Significant improvements have also been made in the techniques used to assess the quality of sperm motility. While this was once an entirely subjective exercise, the introduction of CASA systems to take objective measurements of the trajectories of human spermatozoa has revolutionized this form of analysis. The speed and accuracy of such systems has permitted detailed analyses of the relationships between sperm movement and sperm function, which has greatly enhanced the diagnostic power of this form of descriptive analysis. Notwithstanding the importance of the descriptive approach to semen analysis, it has also been recognized that to achieve an accurate diagnosis of male infertility such criteria should be supplemented with assays designed to reveal the functional competence of the spermatozoa. Bioassays have therefore been developed to measure such functions as the penetration of cervical mucus, sperm-zona interaction, the acrosome reaction, and sperm-oocyte fusion. All of these assays have been shown to generate information predictive of the fertilizing potential of human spermatozoa in vivo and in vitro. Despite their diagnostic value, the time, expense, and expertise required to run such functional assays has meant that they have not been widely used by infertility specialists. These functional assays are of value, however, in fundamental studies designed to elucidate the biochemical basis of defective sperm function. The first fruits of this research effort are now beginning to appear in the identification of a number of cytoplasmic markers for defective sperm function and the realization that lipid peroxidation plays a key role in the etiology of male infertility. In the wake of these fundamental studies will flow a new generation of biochemical tests for the diagnosis of defective sperm function and, it is hoped, the development of rational therapies with which to treat this condition.
Isolation and analysis of microtubule motor proteins.	Isolation of microtubule motor proteins is needed both for the discovery of new motors and for characterization of the products of motor-related genes. The sequences of motor-related genes cannot yet be used to predict the mechanochemical properties of the gene products. This was illustrated by the first kinesin-related gene product to be characterized. Protein expressed from the ncd gene moved toward the minus ends of microtubules (Walker et al., 1990; McDonald et al., 1990), while kinesin itself moves toward the plus ends. Until the relationship between mechanochemical function and amino acid sequence is more thoroughly understood, biochemical isolation and characterization of microtubule motor proteins will remain essential. Two approaches for getting useful quantities of microtubule motor proteins have been used: isolation from cytosol as described under Section II above and isolation from bacteria carrying cloned motor protein genes in expression vectors. Bacterial expression of functional microtubule motors has been successful to date in only a few cases (Yang et al., 1990; Walker et al., 1990, McDonald et al., 1990). Additional progress is expected with the expression of cloned genes from viral vectors in cultured eukaryotic cells, but broad success has not yet been reported. Biochemical isolation of motors from their natural cytosol has some distinct advantages. One can have confidence that a given motor will be folded properly and have normal post-translational modifications. In addition, if it exists in vivo as a heteromultimer, a microtubule motor isolated from its native cytosol will carry with it a normal complement of associated proteins. Studies of such associated proteins will be important in learning how motors accomplish their tasks in vivo. Drosophila cytosol should be a rich source of microtubule motors. Drosophila carry at least 11 and perhaps as many as 30 genes that are related to kinesin (Stewart et al., 1991; Endow and Hatsumi, 1991). The work of Tom Hays' lab indicates that Drosophila carry more than nine dynein related genes (Rasmussen et al., 1994). Relatively little effort to isolate the products of these genes from cytosol has been made. The only work that I am aware of has produced a kinesin-like microtubule motor (D.G. Cole, K.B. Sheehan, W.M. Saxton, and J.M. Scholey, in progress) that may be the Drosophila homolog of Xenopus eg5 (Sawin et al., 1992). This isolation was straightforward, and efforts to identify additional motors are almost assured of success.
Advantages of treatment with human follicular fluid in the management of severely dyspermic patients in human in vitro fertilization programs.	In 26 couples undergoing in-vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF/ET), where the male partner was severely dyspermic, the seminal fluid was treated with Pellet Swim-up (PSu), modified by a 20-minute sperm incubation period in non-decomplemented human follicular fluid (hFF) diluted to 50%. In another group of 26 severely dyspermic couples undergoing IVF/ET, the semen was treated with a variant of centrifugation on discontinuous Percoll gradients (CDPG), called mini-CDPG. Pre-treatment with hFF produced a significant increase in oocyte fertilization rate (46.8% in the hFF group compared with 18.4% in the mini-CDPG couples; Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test: D = 0.5, p < 0.01), in the transfer rate per patient (96.1% in the hFF group and 50% in the mini-CDPG group; (Chi-square Test: x2 = 11.827, p < 0.001), and in the pregnancy rate per patient (respectively of 26.9% and 0%; Fisher's exact probability test: P = 0.0049, p < 0.01). There was a high miscarriage rate in the pregnancies obtained in the hFF group (42.8%). The results might be linked to a positive effect of the hFF on sperm capacity and on acrosome reaction. The Authors conclude that the use of hFF would seem to be an extremely useful treatment of the semen of severely dyspermic patients in assisted fertilization programs.
Does patient semen quality alter during an in vitro fertilization (IVF) program in a manner that is clinically significant when specific counseling is in operation?	It has been shown that the stress of infertility may impair semen quality. Whether counseling can attenuate this affect is unproven. This study examines, in an IVF program setting, where specific counseling is in operation, whether semen collected on the day of oocyte recovery is significantly different from that obtained during the prior clinical suitability assessment of the couple.
A prospective clinical study of the relationship between the computer-assisted assessment of human semen quality and the achievement of pregnancy in vivo.	The objective of this study was to examine the clinical predictive value for the achievement of pregnancy in vivo of the assessment of human semen quality by computer-assisted semen analysis using the Hamilton-Thorn Motility Analyser (HTM-S), alongside classic World Health Organization (WHO) techniques. A prospective follow-up study of 303 couples attending a regional infertility clinic providing tertiary level services to the population of a single geographical region was undertaken. Couples attending the infertility clinic, in whom the female partner was normal on conventional investigations (history, examination, evidence of ovulation, laparoscopy), were studied. After initial assessment, couples were followed for a median of 15 months and treatment-independent pregnancies observed and related to the results of semen assessment. During the period of follow-up, the treatment-independent pregnancy rate was 52%. Several measures of semen quality, determined both manually and by the HTM-S, were found to be predictive of the achievement of pregnancy and were related to the time taken to conceive. Couples who conceived had higher sperm concentrations and motilities, determined both manually and by the HTM-S, as well as differences in sperm head morphometry and sperm velocity determined by the HTM-S. Using multiple logistic regression, the prognostic accuracy of the HTM-S alone was similar to manual techniques, although data from the computer assisted sperm analysis system were preferred. Using proportional hazards regression, several variables were related to the achievement of pregnancy, particularly morphometry and motility. It was concluded that a strong case can be made for the introduction of automated assessment of human semen in routine service andrology laboratories.
Coenzyme Q10 concentrations in normal and pathological human seminal fluid.	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) levels were assayed in total seminal fluid or both in seminal fluid and seminal plasma in 77 subjects with normal or pathological findings at standard semen analysis. CoQ10 levels showed a significant correlation with sperm count and with sperm motility. An interesting exception was constituted by patients with varicocele, in whom the correlation with sperm concentration was preserved, whereas the correlation with sperm motility was lacking. Moreover, they showed an increased ratio of plasma CoQ to total seminal CoQ10 in comparison with the other subjects. These data suggest a pathophysiological meaning of CoQ10 in human seminal fluid and a possible molecular defect in varicocele patients. CoQ10 measurement could represent an important examination in infertile patients; moreover, from these results a rationale might arise for a possible treatment with exogenous CoQ10 in dyspermic patients.
Two-dimensional electrophoretic profile of human sperm membrane proteins.	The purpose of this study was to characterize highly enriched human spermatozoa membrane proteins by two-dimensional electrophoresis and computer image analysis. Sperm membrane proteins were extracted by detergent solubilization from three different preparations: 1) washed semen cells following centrifugation and three wash steps in Ham's F-10 medium (the standard sperm preparation, which is contaminated with seminal immature germ cells, white blood cells, and acellular material), 2) the motile sperm fraction following centrifugation of diluted semen cells through a Percoll density gradient to enrich (> 98%) the viable mature sperm population, and 3) sperm membrane vesicles isolated from Percoll-purified motile mature sperm by nitrogen cavitation followed by differential centrifugation. The two-dimensional gel profiles of extracts of washed semen cells and motile spermatozoa contained more than 600 protein spots between pH 4 and 7 and apparent molecular mass ranging from 7.9 to 93.5 kDa. Only 73% of the major proteins in these two samples matched by computer image analysis. The highly enriched sperm membrane vesicle extract showed a much simpler protein pattern, with only 64 major protein spots, 61 of which could be matched with proteins detected in extracts from purified motile sperm. The isoelectric point and molecular weight coordinates of these major human sperm membrane proteins could serve as a foundation for systematic isolation and further characterization of human sperm antigens for studies of mechanisms of fertilization and the development of contraceptive vaccines.
Effect of low-dose testicular irradiation on sperm count and fertility in patients with testicular seminoma.	The treatment of seminoma with radiation therapy risks transient infertility. We have prospectively followed eight patients with stage I seminoma of the testicle. All patients underwent radical orchiectomy of the affected testis. The mean age of the patients was 32.9 years (range 24-40). Each patient was treated with megavoltage radiation with a 10- or 18-MV linear accelerator. The remaining testicle was shielded using a standard lead enclosure, and the mean testicular dose was 44 cGy (range 20.8-78.2). Semen specimens were delivered to the lab within 30 minutes of ejaculation. All specimens were analyzed using a computer-assisted sperm analyzer. Pretreatment parameters were within normal limits for all but one patient; one patient presented with a borderline normal sperm count at 18 and 22 x 10(6)/ml. Following treatment, there was a decrease in sperm count, detected at 3 months, to < 10 x 10(6)/ml (range 4.4- 8.6 x 10(6)) in all patients except one, who presented with an initial pretreatment count of 189 x 10(6)/ml, which decreased to 58 x 10(6)/ml at 3 months, 32 x 10(6)/ml at 6 months, and rose to 325 x 10(6)/ml by 12 months following treatment. Although the sperm count for this patient (D.L.) was within the normal range, the post-radiation sperm count was less than 20% of the pretreatment count. There was no difference in the motility at 3 months, the mean of which was 51.3%. One patient's (F.C.) wife conceived at 9 months following treatment, one at 12 months (J.R.), and one (J.S.) at 14 months, and all have delivered normal infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dual DNA staining assessment of bovine sperm viability using SYBR-14 and propidium iodide.	A new membrane-permeant DNA stain, SYBR-14, was used in combination with propidium iodide (PI) to estimate the proportion of living sperm in bovine semen. The SYBR-14 stained living sperm while PI only stained degenerate cells that had lost their membrane integrity. Staining with SYBR-14 resulted in the nuclei of living sperm fluorescing bright green. Aliquots containing nearly all living bovine sperm were prepared using glass wool/Sephadex filtration to remove dead and damaged cells. A portion of this filtered sample was killed by unprotected freeze-thawing and used to provide mixed aliquots containing known ratios of living and dead sperm. Flow cytometry was used to assess the green and red fluorescence of these mixtures. The percentages of living sperm, as determined by the log of green fluorescence, were 85.1, 68.8, 39.8, 20.7, and 1.4 for ratios of 100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, and 0:100 of the filtered, killed mixtures. Also, bovine semen was diluted 1:60 in HEPES-0.1% bovine serum albumin and incubated for 0, 3, 6, and 24 hours at 36 degrees C to assess changes in cell viability. As cell death occurred during this incubation period, a relatively rapid transition of staining from green to red occurred as sperm died. Three replicates of cryopreserved sperm from six bulls were also examined using SYBR-14 and PI to assess the proportion of living and dead cells. Flow cytometric analyses of these samples, which had been processed and stored in homogenized milk, indicated that this stain combination was useful in assessing the quality of cryopreserved sperm. The combination of SYBR-14 and PI was determined to be an effective tool for assessing the viability of fresh or cryopreserved sperm.
The routine assessment of sperm motility at room temperature and 37 degrees C.	The World Health Organization (WHO) laboratory manual (1992) states that assessment of sperm motility can be performed at either 37 degrees C or room temperature (20-24 degrees C). The motility of spermatozoa in 44 semen samples (22 fresh samples and 22 frozen-thawed samples) was assessed at both of these temperatures and a significant difference in the motility profiles was noted, specifically an increase at 37 degrees C in the percentage (expressed here as median and ranges) of spermatozoa with excellent progressive motility and an overall increase in the percentage with total progressive motility. With fresh samples the excellent progressive motility increased from 41 (19-53) to 54 (30-66) and the overall motility from 58.5 (39-74) to 65.0 (40-79). With the frozen-thawed samples the excellent motility increased from 14 (1-33) to 25 (6-45) and the overall motility from 30.5 (14-51) to 33.0 (16-52). As the WHO laboratory manual was published 'In response to a growing need for the standardisation of procedures for the examination of human spermatozoa' it is proposed that only one temperature for routine analysis should be used, namely 37 degrees C, which may have more physiological relevance and eliminate effects of fluctuations in ambient laboratory temperature.
A comparison of sperm and embryo transport in the female reproductive tract of marsupial and eutherian mammals.	A review on current knowledge of sperm and embryo transport in the female reproductive tract of marsupials. Some of the unique features of gamete structure-function and female genital tract morphology will be described and compared with data available on eutherian mammals.
Pregnant women's serum provides a novel support for human sperm hyperactivated motility.	Medium composition and assay parameters for assessing human sperm hyperactivated motility (HA) were investigated during a time-course study.
Effects of four methods of sperm preparation on the motile concentration, morphology, and acrosome status of recovered sperm from normal semen samples.	This prospective study compared the effects of four sperm preparation methods on semen samples with normal sperm parameters. The samples were obtained from husbands of infertile couples being evaluated at a fertility center in New York City. Twenty-nine of 51 men in the study (56.9%) had fathered a child within the past 2-5 years. Specifically, the study compared the effects of simple wash (unselective) and three selective methods--conventional swim-up, three-gradient Percoll separation, and swim-up from the Percoll-separated fraction--on the concentration, percentage motile, percentage normal (oval) morphology, percentage intact acrosomes, percentage motile sperm recovery, and motile sperm concentration in the processed samples. The same parameters were measured in the untreated ejaculate, resulting in five data sets. These data were analyzed by both comparison across the five sets and pairwise multiple comparisons between sets.
White blood cells in semen affect hyperactivation but not sperm membrane integrity in the head and tail regions.	The presence of high numbers of peroxidase-positive PML in ejaculated semen significantly reduced sperm HA, an important step leading to sperm capacitation. Sperm membranes at both the head and tail regions, as assessed by the hypo-osmotic viability parameter and the hypo-osmotic sperm swelling test, respectively, were not affected by peroxidase-containing leukocytes. Sperm motility was not affected, but sperm curvilinear and straight line velocity parameters were reduced in the presence of high concentrations of leukocytes in the ejaculate. The results suggested that the effect of leukocytes on sperm was through a reduction in sperm hyperactive motility but not through alterations in the sperm head and tail membranes.
The level of endothelin-like immunoreactivity in seminal fluid correlates positively with semen volume and negatively with plasma gonadotrophin levels.	The newly discovered vasoactive peptides, endothelin 1, 2 and 3, and their receptors are widely distributed in various non-vascular tissues. Recent studies have suggested the presence, as well as possible regulatory roles, of endothelins at several levels of the pituitary-gonadal axis. We determined the level of endothelin-like immunoreactivity in the seminal fluid and examined its possible correlation with routine semen parameters or plasma levels of FSH, LH or testosterone.
Production of normal young following transfer of mouse embryos obtained by in vitro fertilization between cryopreserved gametes.	Unfertilized oocytes (C57BL/6N and C3H/He) and epididymal spermatozoa (DBA/2N and Jcl:ICR) from mice were frozen separately and stored at -196 degrees C. After thawing, in vitro fertilization was performed using C57BL/6N oocytes and DBA/2N spermatozoa, C57BL/6N oocytes and Jcl:ICR spermatozoa, C3H/He oocytes and DBA/2N spermatozoa, and C3H/He oocytes and Jcl:ICR spermatozoa. Embryos developed to the two-cell stage by incubation in vitro were transferred to the oviducts of female recipients on the first day of pseudopregnancy (day when vaginal plug was confirmed). The rate of development to two-cell embryos in each group was in the 22-45% range. When these two-cell embryos were all transferred to recipients, offspring were produced from 23-35% of the embryos.
Phospholipids of human spermatozoa and their role in ensuring fertility]	The phospholipid composition of spermatozoa in healthy subjects (n = 13) and infertile men (n = 38) was studied. The level of inorganic phosphorus of total phospholipids decreased in spermatozoa of infertile men (relative and excretory infertility). It was found that the phosphatidyl ethanolamine amount in spermatozoa of infertile men fell. The level of phosphatidyl serine had certain tendency to decrease as well. Lyso-phosphatidyl serine was detected in some samples of infertile spermatozoa. Correlation between the amount of spermatozoa, its motility, vitality etc. and content of some phospholipids was found.
Comparison of motility and flow cytometric assessments of seminal quality in fresh, 24-hour extended and cryopreserved human spermatozoa.	Functional differences among fresh 24-hour extended and cryopreserved human spermatozoa were assessed using both computer-assisted semen analysis (CASA) and flow cytometry. The objective was to determine if there were interrelationships among various qualitative parameters of the fresh and treated samples when assessed by these two automated methods. Fertile donor specimens (n = 15) were split and examined for sperm motility and curvilinear velocity using CASA within 1 hour postejaculation, after 24 hours in TEST-yolk buffer at 5 degrees C and after cryopreservation in TEST-yolk-glycerol medium. Flow cytometric analyses were performed on 24-hour extended and cryopreserved (CP) samples after fluorescent staining with rhodamine 123 to quantify mitochondrial function and carboxydimethyl fluorescein diacetate and propidium iodide to assess plasma membrane integrity. The percentages of spermatozoa with functional mitochondria and intact membranes along with the proportion of dead cells were identified and quantified by flow cytometry. Quadrant analyses of these data were used to determine the relative red and green fluorescent intensities. The initial sperm motility was correlated to the motility observed for the 24-hour stored and the CP samples. The sperm velocity of both the initial and the 24-hour extended samples was correlated to the velocity of CP samples. As for the comparison of the two automated methods for assessing seminal quality, the only sperm motion parameter that was correlated with a sperm population identified by flow cytometry (quadrant 4) was the curvilinear velocity of the sperm after 24 hours storage (r = 0.69) and after cryopreservation (r = 0.74). The present findings indicate that additional research is needed to determine if prefreeze analyses of donor sperm could be useful in predicting the post-thaw integrity of CP samples and, thereby, be useful in screening potential semen donors.
Effect of freezing method, thawing temperature and post-thaw dilution/washing on motility (CASA) and morphology characteristics of high-quality human sperm.	Sixteen semen samples, 12 donor and four patient samples of high initial quality, were processed to compare the effect of two freezing methods, two thawing temperatures and the effect of dilution and washing on sperm motility and morphology characteristics. Sperm samples were divided in two equal parts and frozen either by fast vapour freezing or by slow computer-controlled freezing. For each freezing method, half of the straws were thawed at room temperature (22 degrees C), the other half were thawed at 37 degrees C. From each freeze-thawing treatment, one straw was evaluated immediately post-thawing; another straw was washed to remove the cryoprotectant solution. In this way, each semen sample was subjected to eight freeze-thawing treatments. No effect of the freezing method and thawing temperature was observed on motility characteristics evaluated by computer-assisted semen analysis, nor on light-microscopical morphology parameters. Post-thaw dilution and washing, however, exerted a deleterious effect on sperm motility, by reducing percentage motility by 50% compared to unwashed thawed specimens. Linearity and percentage of morphologically normal spermatozoa were obviously impaired, while percentage of abnormal tails and beat cross frequency increased significantly. In general, freeze-thawing was most successful when rapid vapour freezing was followed by 37 degrees C thawing, and when slower computer-controlled freezing was combined with 22 degrees C thawing, causing significant interactions between the freezing method and the thawing temperature. For semen samples of high initial quality, vapour and computer-controlled freezing were equally effective in terms of recovery of morphologically normal, motile spermatozoa.
Origin of a sperm motility inhibitor from boar seminal plasma.	We have investigated the origin of the sperm motility inhibitor (SPMI) from boar seminal plasma. SPMI was measured by its capacity to inhibit the motility of demembranated spermatozoa and by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Among the various reproductive and now reproductive tissues and fluids tested, only the seminal vesicle fluid and seminal plasma contained significant amounts of SPMI biological activity and SPMI antigen. Like other seminal vesicle fluid proteins, SPMI is diluted 6- to 8-fold upon ejaculation. By immunohistochemical detection at the light microscope with antibodies obtained from rabbits immunized with SPMI purified from boar seminal plasma, SPMI was found in the cytosol and/or on the plasma membrane bordering the lumen of the seminal vesicles. At the electron microscope level, SPMI appeared to be present only on the surface of the secretory cells. The data indicate that SPMI originates from a single tissue, the seminal vesicle, and suggest that only the mature form present on the luminal surface of the gland can react with the antibody generated from rabbits immunized with the secreted form of SPMI.
Evaluation of spermatological parameters used to predict the fertility of frozen bull semen.	Post-thaw motility, velocity and acrosome integrity of frozen semen were determined in 18 bulls with varying fertility (average non-return rates: 71.3 (+/- 2.8)--range: 65.2-75.7). Five semen straws were investigated from each bull. The average values for sperm motility (percentage motile spermatozoa), sperm velocity (graded from 0-3) and acrosome integrity (proportion of spermatozoa with intact acrosome) were 67.5%, 2.5 and 79.3%, respectively. Significant correlations were found between sperm motility and velocity, but not between sperm motility and acrosome integrity. Both sperm motility and velocity were significantly related to bull fertility. It was concluded that of the post-thaw semen characteristics investigated in this study these 2 parameters provided a reliable basis for prediction of bull fertility.
Some routine test parameters of semen taken from the male partner of infertile couples and the state of the urogenital tract (prostate, seminal vesicles, testicles, epididymis) examined by ultrasound]	The authors investigated 214 men with endorectal and percutaneous scrotal sonography. These men were treated for the reason of sperm defects. The age range was 22 to 52 years. They were married for 2-10 years and infertile. The sperm was defected in respect of low percentage of motility (< or = 50%) and vitality and increased percentage of morphological abnormalities. The paper is an attempt to find the correlation between the sperm vitality and the frequency of prostate, seminal vesicles, testes and ejaculatory ducts defects. These correlations were particularly evident in sperm samples with decreased sperm concentration (1-20 mln/ml). The authors suggested the usefulness of the finding in treating the male infertility.
Analysis of sperm movement in relation to the oxidative stress created by leukocytes in washed sperm preparations and seminal plasma.	The addition of luminol to unprocessed semen samples resulted in the generation of chemiluminescent signals, the intensity of which was highly correlated with the level of leukocyte contamination. Despite the spontaneous oxidant-generating capacity of seminal leukocytes, no correlations were observed between leukocyte contamination and the fertility status of the subjects or any aspect of the semen profile, including the motility of the spermatozoa or their performance in a hyaluronate penetration assay. Luminol-dependent chemiluminescence and leukocyte contamination were also correlated in washed sperm suspensions prepared either by repeated centrifugation or on discontinuous Percoll gradients. However, in such sperm suspensions, the spontaneous generation of oxidants by contaminating leukocytes (> 2 x 10(4) leukocytes/ml) was invariably associated with a decreased capacity for movement. Moreover, causative associations between leukocyte contamination, reactive oxygen species generation, lipid peroxidation and impaired sperm motility were revealed by experiments involving the selective addition or removal of activated leukocytes. From these observations we can conclude that low concentrations of leukocytes are a common feature of the human ejaculate and can impair sperm function, particularly in the absence of seminal plasma. These findings have implications for our understanding of the importance of leukocytospermia in defining the fertility of human spermatozoa in vivo and in vitro.
Variations in spontaneous and induced acrosome reaction: correlations with semen parameters and in-vitro fertilization results.	To determine whether variations in spontaneous and induced acrosome reactions are correlated with semen quality, and to identify the inducers of clinical interest, the acrosome reaction, sperm concentration, motility and morphology were recorded in 117 semen samples from patients undergoing an in-vitro fertilization (IVF) attempt. The spontaneous acrosome loss after 24 h incubation in Mnzo B2 medium and after induction by calcium ionophore A23187, progesterone, human follicular fluid, cyclic adenosine 3'-5'-phosphate (cAMP) analogue and phorbol ester (TPA) were measured using the fluorescein isothiocyanate-GB24 antibody. The mean (range) spontaneous acrosome reaction was 3.4 +/- 0.6% (0.0-30.0). Response to the tested inducers was 23.3 +/- 1.6% (0.0-72.0) for calcium ionophore, 5.4 +/- 0.8% (0.0-60.0) for progesterone, 1.0 +/- 0.7% (0.0-24.0) for human follicular fluid, 2.6 +/- 0.7% (0.0-39.0) for the cAMP analogue and 2.3 +/- 0.7% (0.0-31.0) for TPA. The response to calcium ionophore was correlated significantly to sperm concentration, motility and morphology, while the responses to progesterone and TPA were correlated significantly to motility and acrosome morphology. The responses to other inducers were not linked to classic semen parameters. When studying acrosome reaction as a function of IVF results, the responses to calcium ionophore and TPA were discriminant. The results of this study show that the spontaneous acrosome loss and the responses to acrosome reaction inducers are highly variable and partially linked to semen quality. The responses to calcium ionophore and TPA could be of interest in predicting the fertilizing ability in vitro.
Evaluation of a computer-aided semen analysis system with sperm tail detection.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the Stroemberg-Mika cell motion analyser (SM-CMA) which uses tail detection in order to discriminate between immotile spermatozoa and other particles. Analysis of the spermatozoa by the SM-CMA can easily be checked on a video monitor. The semen samples were from donors and patients visiting the fertility unit of the University Hospital, Hanzeplein, The Netherlands. Both fresh semen samples and purified sperm suspensions were used to estimate sperm counts and motility characteristics. We tested the use of the x10 objective instead of the x20 and we assessed the ways in which motility characteristics were influenced by temperature. We found a considerable discrepancy between sperm concentrations measured manually and by computerized analysis, both in semen samples and in purified sperm suspensions. The SM-CMA correctly recognizes motile spermatozoa, but underestimates immotile ones. Although temperature affects motility characteristics, in routine measurements the influence of short cooling periods, which are unavoidable, was nil. We found that using the x10 objective can be useful, especially at low sperm concentrations. In our opinion, the SM-CMA system is, despite some shortcomings in its user-interface, a useful and versatile instrument for examination of human semen samples, with desirable features.
Pregnancy and birth after intracytoplasmic sperm injection with spermatozoa from a patient with tail stump syndrome.	Tail stump syndrome, which may be associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia, is also associated with morphological defects of the flagellum resulting in severe asthenozoospermia. Until recently, these morphological anomalies caused definite male infertility. Today, however, new methods such as micromanipulation techniques provide a rational therapy for this patient group. A pregnancy followed by living offspring was achieved following the intracytoplasmic injection of immotile spermatozoa from a patient with tail stump syndrome.
Sperm motility inhibitor from human seminal plasma: association with semen coagulum.	Human seminal plasma contains a sperm motility inhibitor (SPMI) originating from the seminal vesicles as a 52 kDa precursor form that is rapidly degraded by prostatic proteases after ejaculation. In this study, the distribution of SPMI biological activity and antigens was analysed in chemically induced, as well as naturally occurring, arrest of semen liquefaction. SPMI activity was detected exclusively in the coagulated semen fraction at 2200 +/- 560 IU, whereas total seminal plasma proteins separated more evenly between soluble and coagulated components (91 +/- 19 and 65 +/- 18 mg, respectively). An SPMI antiserum recognized different forms of SPMI precursors at 52, 38, 35, 33 and 20 kDa in the coagulum while the soluble protein fraction contained only one major immunoreactive band at 15 kDa. High levels of SPMI activity (1500 +/- 180 IU/ml) together with high molecular mass forms of SPMI precursor and low sperm motility (26%) were detected in semen samples that failed to liquefy spontaneously at room temperature. Addition of prostatic secretions to the non-liquefying samples caused a decrease of SPMI activity (330 +/- 17 IU/ml) and transformed the SPMI precursor into low molecular mass forms (14-22 kDa) with a concomitant increase in sperm motility to 49%. The results suggest that SPMI is highly associated with the seminal coagulum components as very active forms that may adversely affect sperm motility when not properly processed after ejaculation.
Mini-swim-up: a new technique of sperm preparation for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.	The male factor is nowadays one of the major problems in the treatment of infertility. New methods of assisted fertilization such as the intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) show better fertilization and pregnancy rates than classical IVF.
Effect of dominance status on sex hormone levels in laboratory and wild-spawning male trout.	We investigated the relationship between male social status and hormone levels in salmonids spawning under laboratory and field conditions. In small groups of rainbow trout (Onchorhynchus mykiss) spawning in the laboratory, dominant males had higher plasma levels of testosterone (T) and 17 alpha, 20 beta-dihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one (17,20 beta-P) compared with subordinates. Steroid levels increased in subordinate males that became dominant after dominant males were experimentally removed; higher steroid levels in dominant males appears to be a result rather than a cause of their social status. In free-ranging brown trout (Salmo trutta) sampled in the field, we found higher levels of 11-ketotestosterone (11KT) but not T in dominant males. No significant differences in levels of either androgen were found between dominant and subordinate male brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) sampled at the same field location. Furthermore, in marked contrast with the laboratory fish, there were no significant differences in plasma 17,20 beta-P between dominant and subordinate males in either species of fish in the wild. The different findings in the laboratory and field may indicate species differences in behavioral endocrinology among brook, brown, and rainbow trout. Alternatively, the greater differential in hormonal profile of dominant and subordinate males in the laboratory may reflect the relative uniformity of the laboratory environment; this simple environment may allow competitively superior males to more completely dominate less competitive tank-mates and to exclude them from female sexual cues. In any case, these results suggest that the relationship between steroid hormones and spawning behavior in male salmonids is likely more complex than suggested by experiments conducted solely on laboratory-held rainbow trout.
Intracellular calcium concentration in equine spermatozoa attached to oviductal epithelial cells in vitro.	Interaction of spermatozoa with oviductal epithelial cells (OEC) in the oviductal isthmus prolongs the life span of spermatozoa. The hypothesis that the interaction of equine spermatozoa with OEC affects their intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was tested in a sperm-OEC coculture model. Changes in [Ca2+]i in spermatozoa loaded with the fluorescent calcium indicator indo-1 acetoxymethylester (AM) were determined for spermatozoa attached to OEC or to Matrigel, as well as for free-swimming spermatozoa incubated without oviductal epithelium. [Ca2+]i was determined before incubation and at 0.5, 2, 4, and 6 h of incubation by ratio image analysis of fluorescent images captured at 405 nm and 490 nm. At each time point, [Ca2+]i was lower in motile spermatozoa attached to OEC than in free-swimming spermatozoa. [Ca2+]i in spermatozoa attached to Matrigel was lower than in free-swimming spermatozoa and was comparable to [Ca2+]i in spermatozoa attached to OEC only at 0.5 h incubation. Beyond 0.5 h of incubation, [Ca2+]i was higher in spermatozoa attached to Matrigel than in spermatozoa attached to OEC. These results indicate that spermatozoa with low [Ca2+]i might preferentially attach to OEC and to Matrigel, but that [Ca2+]i is maintained at this basal level only in spermatozoa attached to OEC. The reduced [Ca2+]i in spermatozoa associated with OEC may prevent premature capacitation and acrosomal exocytosis of spermatozoa stored in the isthmic sperm reservoir.
Carrier-mediated gamma-aminobutyric acid uptake in human spermatozoa indicating the presence of a high-affinity gamma-aminobutyric acid transport protein.	Human spermatozoa are capable of a carrier-mediated gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) uptake. The uptake is dependent on the concentration of Cl- and Na+ in the external medium, and the kinetics of the carrier resembles high-affinity GABA transport proteins. The time-dependent uptake of GABA displays large interindividual differences and is not correlated to motility parameters or morphology in the individual sample. Incubation of human spermatozoa with radiolabeled GABA was performed. Swim-up preparations of human spermatozoa were incubated with [3H]GABA, and subsequent GABA uptake was measured at various times by scintillation counting. GABA was accumulated intracellularly, and the uptake could be inhibited by preincubation of the samples in 200 microM nipecotic acid. Addition of aminooxyacetic acid in the medium did not alter the results, indicating that the internalized GABA remained unmetabolized intracellularly throughout the observation period. Kinetic analysis of GABA uptake was performed, and the Km for GABA transport was 14 microM. GABA uptake was reduced by equimolar substitution of NaCl in the capacitating medium by KCl, choline chloride, LiCl, N-methyl-D-glucamine (HCl) or D-glucuronic acid (sodium salt). Maximal reduction of [3H]GABA uptake was observed when the Na+ fraction of the medium was replaced with KCl. The results indicate the presence of a high-affinity GABA transport protein in the plasma membrane of human spermatozoa. GABA uptake was subsequently measured in 30 individual semen samples from men of barren couples. Large interindividual differences in GABA uptake was observed, but GABA uptake was not correlated to motility parameters or to morphology in the individual samples analyzed.
Rat epididymal sperm quantity, quality, and transit time after guanethidine-induced sympathectomy.	Guanethidine, a chemical that selectively abolishes peripheral noradrenergic nerves, was used to investigate the role of sympathetic innervation in the maintenance of epididymal sperm quantity and quality. Four groups of 10 adult male rats each were treated daily for 21 days, by i.p. injections, with either 0 (saline vehicle), 6.25, 12.5, or 25 mg/kg guanethidine. Norepinephrine content was reduced to undetectable levels in the cauda epididymidis in all guanethidine groups after 3 wk of treatment and was reduced to 7.4% of the control values after 1 wk of 6.25 mg/kg treatment. While body weight gain was significantly decreased at 12.5 and 25 mg/kg compared to that in controls, there was a significant increase in the weights of the seminal vesicles/coagulating glands in all treated groups. The number of homogenization-resistant spermatids per testis and the daily sperm production per testis remained unchanged. The weight of the epididymis was significantly increased at 6.25 and 12.5 mg/kg. Moreover, the number of cauda epididymal sperm and the transit time were increased significantly at 6.25 mg/kg (10.2 days) compared to values in the control cauda (6.3 days). Neither serum testosterone levels nor LH was affected in a dosage-related manner. There were no effects of guanethidine treatment on cauda epididymal sperm motility or morphology. A quantitative analysis of detergent-extracted cauda epididymal sperm proteins by SDS-PAGE revealed no differences, but there were diminutions in seven proteins in homogenates of caput/corpus tissue. Histologic analysis of testis and epididymis sections revealed no differences between control and denervated animals. In a subsequent experiment the lowest effective dosage (6.25 mg/kg) was given to rats for 1 wk, and an increased number of cauda epididymal sperm and a delay in sperm transit were observed. Our results indicate that low-dosage guanethidine exposure denervates the epididymis within 1 wk, thereby delaying epididymal transit; however, neither 1- nor 3-wk exposure produces qualitative changes in the sperm.
Mouse spermatozoa modify their motility parameters and chemotactic response to factors from the oocyte microenvironment.	The aim of this work was to evaluate the period of time required for the induction of changes in motility of mouse spermatozoa in response to factors from the microenvironment of oocytes. To determine the effects of the latency time, the period of preincubation before contact with the oocyte product(s), sperm samples were incubated for 15 or 90 min and then exposed to either Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM) or to a crude extract of superovulated oocytes (CE). The assays were performed in a Zigmond chamber by filling one compartment with either DMEM or CE, and the other compartment with the sperm suspension. A videomicroscopy system was used for tracking the spermatozoa. Sperm motility analysis was assessed using a semiautomatic objective method, and the following parameters were determined; (1) dynamic parameters: curvilinear velocity, linear velocity and linearity; (2) progressive motility: percentage of spermatozoa showing either circular or linear patterns of movement; and (3) directional motility: percentage of spermatozoa that moved towards either the DMEM or the CE. The results of this work showed that when the spermatozoa contacted soluble factors in CE after only 15 min of previous incubation, there was a significant increase in their dynamic parameters, change in their progressive motility, and induction of directional movement of the spermatozoa towards the CE components, while a longer period of preincubation did not significantly modify these effects. On the other hand, in the presence of culture medium (with or without addition of bovine serum albumin), the spermatozoa needed a more extended period of incubation to significantly increase their dynamic parameters and to modify their progressive motility, while maintaining a random direction of movement.
Xenopus laevis fertilisation: analysis of sperm motility in egg jelly using video light microscopy.	Xenopus laevis eggs are surrounded by an extracellular matrix consisting of a vitelline envelope, and three jelly layers, J1, J2, and J3 (from egg surface outward). The jelly layers vary in thickness (about 150, 15 and 200 microns for J1, J2 and J3 respectively) but all are translucent allowing observation of sperm penetration. Video microscopy demonstrated that sperm are able to penetrate and traverse J3 at velocities approaching 30 microns/s. Sperm swim through jelly in a corkscrew-like manner with their rotational and forward velocities being tightly coupled at about 30 degrees/micron forward travel. They are propelled by whip-like power strokes involving hairpin bends in the flagellum that are generated every 180 degrees of rotation and which are propagated from base to tip. The overall trajectories of individual sperm are quite variable. Many sperm head directly for J2 but some do not, these swimming circumferentially, or even away from the egg surface. Most sperm (over 97%) that enter the jelly do not get to the egg surface but are stopped at a variety of positions within J3 or at the outer surface of J2. Efficient sperm penetration and passage through the jelly layers requires a low electrolyte concentration in the surrounding medium, and is inhibited by the lectin wheat germ agglutin (WGA) in a dose-dependent manner. WGA does not block sperm penetration of J3 but does block further progression towards the egg surface. This observation suggests that sperm motility within the jelly is dependent on the carbohydrate moieties of the large glycoconjugates present, and that their alteration by WGA binding accounts for the inability of sperm to reach the egg surface and fertilise the egg.
Human sperm endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression: correlation with sperm motility.	To characterize the pattern of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression on human spermatozoa and to determine whether sperm eNOS expression correlates with sperm function.
Plasma membrane integrity of cryopreserved human sperm: an investigation of the results of the hypoosmotic swelling test, the water test, and eosin-Y staining.	[1] To examine the relationship between sperm membrane integrity and motion parameters before and after cryopreservation; [2] to determine the capacity of the membrane integrity tests to predict the outcome of cryopreservation in fertile and infertile men; and [3] to examine the degree of agreement between tail and head membrane integrity of testicular and ejaculated immotile sperm cryopreserved for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.
The heparin-glutathione test: an alternative to the hypo-osmotic swelling test to select viable sperm for intracytoplasmic sperm injection.	To evaluate the heparin-glutathione test (HEGLUT) for the selection of viable sperm for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
Effect of storage temperature on sperm cryopreservation.	To evaluate the influence of cryopreservation temperature on human sperm motility and morphology.
Comparison of sperm separation methods: effect on recovery, motility, motion parameters, and hyperactivation.	To compare the Enhance (Percoll; Conception Technologies, San Diego, CA) and PureSperm (Gen X International, Madison, CT) sperm preparation methods with respect to recovery (percentage of motile sperm), motility (%), path and progressive velocities (microm/s), and hyperactivation (%).
The role of oxygen radicals in the physiology and pathology of human sperm]	Reactive oxygen species in low doses are necessary compound of sperm capacitation and hyperactivation. Superoxide anion, hydroxyl radical and hydrogen peroxide initiate sperm capacitation. The edding of antioxidant enzymes inhibits the spontaneous and induced sperm hyperactivation. The process of capacitation is accompanied with the superoxide anion production output by spermatozoa. High doses of reactive oxygen species block the sperm motility through the inhibition of ATP synthesis by the mitochondrial enzymes and cell membrane compounds injury.
