Efficacy of repeated cycles of combination therapy for the eradication of infecting organisms in chronic bacterial prostatitis.	A total of 137 patients with a diagnosis of chronic bacterial prostatitis (CBP) were subjected to combination pharmacological therapy with antibacterial agents (ciprofloxacin/azithromycin), alpha-blockers (alfuzosin) and Serenoa repens extracts. Of those, 88 patients (64.2%) showed microbiological eradication at the completion of a 6-week cycle of therapy. Of the remaining 49 patients showing persistence of the causative organism(s) or reinfection at the end of treatment, 36 completed a second cycle of combination therapy for 6 weeks: 27 patients (75%) showed eradication of the causative organism, whereas in nine cases persistence or reinfection was observed. The cumulative eradication rate of the present study - calculated on a total of 137 enrolled patients - is 83.9%. Clinical examination showed a marked improvement of signs and symptoms linked to prostatitis. Remarkably, combination therapy could attenuate CBP symptoms prior to microbiological eradication, thus rapidly decreasing the impact of the disease on the quality of life of patients. Clinical remission was extended throughout a follow-up period of 30 months for 94% of patients, whereas seven patients showed relapse of the disease. In summary, our results indicate that about 20% of patients enrolled in this study, who were refractory to a protocol of 6-week combination therapy, could be 'rescued' by a second cycle of treatment. Clinical follow-up data show that combination therapy could ensure extended relief from CBP symptoms, and a general improvement in quality of life.
Prevalence of sexually transmissible pathogens in semen from asymptomatic male infertility patients with and without leukocytospermia.	To determine the prevalence of pathogens that cause sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in semen from asymptomatic male infertility patients with and without leukocytospermia (LCS), and associations between STIs, inflammatory markers, and other semen variables.
Male accessory gland infection frequency in infertile patients with chronic microbial prostatitis and irritable bowel syndrome: transrectal ultrasound examination helps to understand the links.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the frequency of male accessory gland  infection (MAGI) in patients with chronic bacterial prostatitis (CBP) plus  irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and to compare the sperm parameters of patients  with or without MAGI. In addition, another objective of this study was to  evaluate the ultrasound characterization of the anatomical space between the  posterior wall of the prostate and the anterior wall of the rectum using  transrectal ultrasonography. Fifty consecutive patients with the following  criteria were enrolled: 1) infertility, 2) diagnosis of CBP, and 3) diagnosis  of IBS according to the Rome III criteria. The following 2 age-matched control  groups were also studied: infertile patients with CBP alone (n = 56) and  fertile men (n = 30) who had fathered a child within the previous 3 months.  Patients and controls underwent an accurate patient history; administration of  the National Institutes of Health-Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index and  the Rome III questionnaires for prostatitis and IBS, respectively; physical  examination; semen analysis; and transrectal ultrasound evaluation (limited to  patients with CBP and IBS or CBP alone). A significantly higher frequency of  MAGI was found in patients with CBP plus IBS (82.0%) compared with patients  with CBP alone (53.6%) or fertile men (0%). The presence of MAGI in patients  with CBP plus IBS was associated with a significantly lower sperm  concentration, total number, and forward motility, and with a higher seminal  leukocyte concentration compared with patients with CBP alone and MAGI. Sperm  normal morphology was similar in the groups of patients. All sperm parameters  did not differ significantly in both groups of patients without MAGI. With  ultrasound evaluation, a significantly higher frequency of dilatation of  prostatic venous plexus was found in patients with CBP plus IBS (75%) compared  with patients with CBP alone (10%). Patients with CBP plus IBS had a  significantly higher frequency of MAGI compared with patients with CBP alone.  This was associated with worse sperm parameters and, hence, poorer  reproductive prognosis. We suggest searching for the presence of IBS in  patients with prostatitis syndrome, in particular when CBP and/or worse sperm  parameters are present. Finally, this is the first observation on ultrasound  examination of the anatomical space between the posterior wall of the prostate  and the anterior wall of the rectum reported in patients with CBP and IBS.  Further studies should clarify the meaning of the ultrasound findings.
Cytomegalovirus and male infertility.	Male infertility may be due to a multiplicity of etiologic factors. In this study we have investigated the presence of cytomegalovirus (CMV) in 150 infertile men (selected after the exclusion of other etiopathogenic factors of infertility) and 80 subjects screened for pre-marriage consult. CMV was found in the sperm of 7/150 patients and 3/80 subjects screened for pre-marriage consult. Moreover, the seminal abnormalities evidenced in infertile men (a significant decrease of nemaspermic concentration and motility, of fructose, a significantly increased pH) were also observed in subjects screened for pre-marriage consult having CMV in the sperm. These abnormalities were related to alterations of cell-mediated immunity (decreased OKT4+, increased OKT8+ with decreased OKT4/OKT8 ratio). Among ten CMV+ subjects, two with idiopathic sterility and three subjects screened for pre-marriage consult showed a negativization of CMV in the sperm, during the observation period (one year), and a decreased anti-CMV titre lower than eight. Contemporary, a normalization of immunologic and seminal parameters was observed.
Sperm-associated retroviruses in the mouse epididymis.	Sperm adsorbed with retrovirus particles were recovered from the epididymis of apparently normal male mice. Epididymal semen from all four mouse strains examined was positive for retrovirus (10(5) to 10(8) particles per microgram of protein) indicating that epididymal fluids and sperm may be important vehicles for murine retrovirus spread. Immunoblot analyses revealed that the banding patterns of electrophoretically separated epididymal viral proteins from the four strains of males were more similar to each other than to either xenotropic New Zealand Black virus or ecotropic Rauscher leukemia virus proteins. The results indicate that retrovirus particles, possibly a unique strain, are commonly expressed at relatively high titers in the reproductive tract of male mice and are sperm-associated.
Mycoplasma hominis- tissue cell interactions: a review with new observations on phenotypic and genotypic properties.	Strains of Mycoplasma hominis isolated from different tissues of patients with a variety of disease processes and from cell culture substrates show marked phenotypic and genotypic heterogeneity, as determined by their antigenic and isozyme properties and by [3H]DNA-DNA hybridization and DNA cleavage pattern analyses. Strains isolated from the same tissues (blood of postpartum patients or human urogenital tract or cell culture substrates) have very high genomic homology and form clusters of similar strains. Clusters of strains that colonize similar specialized urogenital tissues may initiate diseases that reflect damage to the particular tissue colonized. Antigenic markers such as those for attachment components for different strain clusters may help determine the role, if any, played by strain differences in the etiology of a family of urogenital diseases.
Group B streptococci as an etiologic agent of infections in adults and their characteristics]	The investigation was performed on 1471 bacteriologically-positive samples of materials derived from patients hospitalized in various hospital wards (mainly gynecology and obstetrics). Group B streptococci were in 10% etiological factors of infections in patients from gynecological and obstetrical wards. These bacteria were isolated in 25% from pus, 15.7% from vaginal smears and in 13.7% from cervix uteri. In urinary tract infections, group B streptococci were present in 10.7% of urine samples with positive bacteriological result. They were also isolated from 8.3% of sperm samples treated because of infertility. Isolated strains of group B streptococci belonged most frequently to following serotypes: Ic, III, R, Ib and II consisting respectively 33.5, 19.3, 12.9, and 11.0% of all strains out of 155 tested serologically. These results demonstrate that group B streptococci are frequently causative in bacterial infections of hospitalized patients.
Rederivation of mice by means of in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer.	In vitro fertilization and embryo transfer were performed for rederivation of four strains of mice harbouring mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) and/or Pasteurella pneumotropica (P. pneumotropica). Superovulated oocytes were fertilized by preincubated cauda epididymis sperm in vitro. Fertilized eggs at 2-cell stage were transferred into the oviducts of specific pathogen free (SPF) recipients. Microbial examination of sperm and/or oocyte donors verified the presence of P. pneumotropica and/or of antibodies to MHV in all strains, but neither in the recipients nor in the offspring antibodies to MHV could they be detected. The results indicate that an in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) system is an effective and simple alternative to cesarean operation in infected mice.
