Effect of activation regimens for rat oocytes on full-term development after round spermatid injection.	The present study was designed to compare the effect of two activation regimens for rat oocytes on full-term development after round spermatid injection (ROSI). Oocytes were treated either with 1.25 mM SrCl2 for 20 min or with two direct-current (DC) pulses at 100 V/mm for 99 msec followed by exposure to 2 mM 6-dimethylaminopurine (6-DMAP) for 20 min. Single spermatids then were injected into the oocytes that were ready for polar body extrusion. The proportions of oocytes surviving injection and exhibiting pronuclear formation were comparable between the SrCl2 group (76.8% and 45.6%, respectively) and the DC+6-DMAP group (78.3% and 34.9%, respectively). More SrCl2-activated ROSI oocytes (44.2%) cleaved into the two-cell stage than did those activated with DC+6-DMAP (34.7%). However, the proportions of the two-cell embryos developing to morulae/blastocysts and live offspring were significantly (P = 0.0005 and 0.042) lower in the SrCl2 group (12.3 and 6.1%, respectively) than the DC+6-DMAP group (36.1 and 14.6%, respectively). Our results indicate DC+6-DMAP is better than SrCl2 for oocyte activation prior to successful ROSI of rats.
Cloning and characterization of rat spermatid protein SSP411: a thioredoxin-like protein.	In an attempt to identify new sperm-specific genes that are involved in sperm maturation, fertilization, and embryo development, such as the mammalian ortholog of the sperm-supplied protein gene, spe-11, in Caenorhabditis elegans, we cloned and characterized a new spermatid-specific protein gene, ssp411, from adult rat testes. The ssp411 cDNA shared >85% sequence identity with an unnamed human protein, FLJ21347, and an uncharacterized mouse testicular protein called transcript increased in spermiogenesis 78 (TISP78). A 2.8-kb ssp411 mRNA was expressed in a testis-specific and age-dependent manner; the mRNA was evident at 28 days and remained at high levels throughout adulthood. An SSP411 protein of molecular weight 88 000 was detected in testicular extracts by Western blot analysis. Ssp411 mRNA and SSP411 protein, as analyzed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, were both expressed in a stage-dependent fashion during the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium. The ssp411 mRNA was predominantly localized to round and elongated spermatids, with maximal expression at stages VII-XII. The SSP411 protein was mainly observed in elongated spermatids and reached its highest levels during stages V-VI. A conserved thioredoxin-like domain was detected in the N-terminal region of SSP411 and its orthologs. An analysis of the predicted 3-dimensional structural modeling and folding pattern further suggested that SSP411 is identifiable as a member of thioredoxin family. In summary, we have identified a new rat spermatid protein gene, ssp411, and its orthologs in human and mouse and demonstrated that SSP411 might belong to a testis-specific thioredoxin family. This suggests that SSP411 may play a role in sperm maturation, fertilization, and/or embryo development, as has been shown in thioredoxin family.
Reciprocal regulation of the mouse protamine genes by the orphan nuclear receptor germ cell nuclear factor and CREMtau.	Germ cell nuclear factor (GCNF) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, which is expressed in the adult predominantly in the male and female germ cells. In the male, GCNF is expressed in spermatogenic cells. GCNF binds as a homodimer to direct repeat response elements of the consensus half-site sequence, AGGTCA, with 0 bp spacing (DR0). Using this information, a search of genomic databases was performed to identify candidate GCNF responsive, spermatogenic-specific, genes that contain DR0 sequences. The mouse protamine genes are the strongest candidates identified to date, as they are post-meiotically expressed in round spermatids and contain DR0 elements in their proximal promoters. Previous work has shown that both recombinant and endogenous GCNF bind to DR0 elements in the mouse protamine 1 and 2 (Prm 1 and Prm 2) promoters with high affinity and specificity. The present work shows that in transient transfection assays in GC-1 and JEG-3 cells, co-transfection of a GCNF-VP16 expression plasmid with reporter plasmids containing either the wild type Prm 1 or Prm 2 promoter established that GCNF-VP16 is able to regulate transcription from both promoters in a DR0-dependent manner. Wild type GCNF, in contrast, acts as a repressor of basal transcription on both the Prm 1 and Prm 2 promoters in a DR0-dependent manner. Furthermore, CREMtau activation of these promoters is also repressed by wild-type GCNF, indicating that GCNF also acts as a repressor of activated transcription. GCNF therefore defines a novel nuclear receptor-signaling pathway that may regulate a subset of genes involved in the terminal differentiation process of spermatogenesis, exemplified by the protamines.
Developmental expression of p63 in the mouse testis.	p63 is a member of the p53 gene family and have structural similarities with p53. p63 encodes for multiple isotypes either with N-terminal transactivation domain (TAp63) or without it (DeltaNp63). In the mammalian testis, it has been shown that p53 plays important roles in the regulation of germ cell apoptosis and meiosis. However, little is known for the physiological function of p63 in the mammalian spermatogenesis. To investigate the potential roles of p63 in the developing mouse testis, we examined the expression pattern of p63 in the mouse testis from birth to adulthood. In addition to the TAp63 mRNA which was continuously expressed in the developing testis, transcripts encoding DeltaNp63 was detected at specific stages of testicular development by RT-PCR, from postnatal day 1 to day 7 and from 3 weeks to 4 weeks after birth. Western blot analysis of whole testis lysates with anti-p63 antibody revealed an approximately 68 kD band throughout development and a less abundant protein at 60 kD in the earlier period of postnatal development. Immunopositive reactions for p63 were observed as early as 10 days after birth and p63 protein was localized to the nuclei of spermatocytes and round spermatids. These findings strongly suggest that p63 might be involved in the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of spermatogenic cells in the developing mouse testis.
Retinoic acid receptor alpha is required for synchronization of spermatogenic cycles and its absence results in progressive breakdown of the spermatogenic process.	Targeted mutagenesis of the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RAR alpha) gene has revealed its essential role in spermatogenesis. Although cells in all stages of spermatogenesis were detected in RAR alpha(-/-) testes, there was an increase in degenerating pachytene spermatocytes and a temporary developmental arrest in step 8-9 spermatids in the first wave of spermatogenesis, a delay in the onset of the second wave, and a temporary arrest in preleptotene to leptotene spermatocytes in the first, second, and third waves. A striking aspect of the mutant phenotype was the failure of spermatids to align at the tubular lumen at stage VIII. Furthermore, there were missing or decreased numbers of the predicted cell types in tubules, and they exhibited a profound asynchrony of mixed spermatogenic cell types. In vivo bromodeoxyuridine labeling revealed a significant decrease in germ cell proliferation in both juvenile and adult RAR alpha(-/-) testes and confirmed the arrest at step 8-9 spermatids. Retinoid signaling through RAR alpha, thus, appears to be critical for establishment of synchronous progression of spermatogenesis and the subsequent establishment of correct cellular associations.
Expression of Stat3 in germ cells of developing and adult mouse ovaries and testes.	The Signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stat) family of proteins plays diverse roles during differentiation in many tissues. Stat3 is an essential mammalian gene, critical during embryonic development. In mammals, Stat3 is differentially distributed in the cytoplasm of mature oocytes and in preimplantation embryos suggesting that Stat3 may be involved in determination of polarity. Here, we report that Stat3 protein is expressed in the cytoplasm of oocytes from primordial, primary and secondary follicles in the adult ovary and in developing acrosomes of round spermatids in the adult testis. Stat3 is also expressed in gonocytes, prospermatogonia, oogonia and oocytes of embryonic and neonatal gonads.
Quantitative morphology of the testicular tubular epithelium in the water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis).	Ultrastructural features and morphometric evaluations of water buffalo seminiferous epithelium are reported for the 6 phases of the spermatogenic cycle. The relative Sertoli cell volume varies between 30% (phase 4) and 39% (phase 8), the calculated volume of a Sertoli cell between 7118 microns3 and 8968 microns3 (phase 4). Smooth ER is the organelle that exhibits the most prominent changes in Sertoli cells during the spermatogenic cycle: it occupies about 6% in phase 3 and 21% in phase 4. All spermatogenic cells of the same clone present cytoplasmic bridges among them. From preleptotene (about 470 microns3) to late diplotene (about 2300 microns3) the volume of a primary spermatocyte increases nearly 5-fold; their nuclear volumes increase 3.5-fold in the same period. Secondary spermatocytes are found only in phase 4 of the cycle. Due to partial cell necrosis and autolysis late maturation phase spermatids display not more than 25% of the size of early cap phase spermatids. 63% of all numerically possible germ cells disappear from the seminiferous epithelium during spermatogenesis. Particularly heavy cell loss is observed in phase 4 and involves the spermatogonial fraction as well as cells during the second meiotic division.
Expression of heat-shock locus hsr-omega in nonstressed cells during development in Drosophila melanogaster.	The hsr-omega locus forms one of the largest Drosophila heat-shock puffs and produces three major transcripts. These three transcripts are also produced constitutively, at lower levels, in almost all tissues and developmental stages. The amounts of the transcripts in nonstressed cells are modulated during development. The hormone ecdysone leads to increased levels of hsr-omega transcripts in cultured cells, suggesting that changing ecdysone titers may play a role in the developmental changes of hsr-omega transcript levels. By in situ hybridization to RNA in tissue sections, we detect only two cell types that lack hsr-omega transcripts--the preblastoderm embryo and the primary spermatocyte. There are no maternal transcripts of hsr-omega in the embryo. Transcripts appear abruptly at the time that the zygotic genome becomes transcriptionally active, shortly before the formation of the cellular blastoderm. No constitutive hsr-omega transcripts are found in primary spermatocytes. The spermatocytes cannot respond to heat shock by transcribing either hsr-omega or hsp70 RNA. Constitutive hsr-omega transcription is resumed later in spermatogenesis and hsr-omega RNA is detected in differentiating spermatids. These spermatids are also capable of mounting a heat-shock response, as measured by increases in hsr-omega and hsp70 RNA.
The seminiferous epithelium cycle and daily spermatic production in the adult maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus, Illiger, 1811).	The duration of the seminiferous epithelium cycle was estimated in adult maned wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus, Illiger, 1811), by applying intratesticular injections with tritiated thymidine. The total duration of the seminiferous epithelium cycle in this species was calculated in 8.99 days. So, taking into account that approximately 4.5 cycles of the seminiferous epithelium are necessary for the whole spermatogenesis process to complete, the production of spermatozoa from one spermatogonia will take about 40.45 days. The duration of the spermiogenesis was calculated to be 12.3 days. The eight stages of the seminiferous epithelium cycle were described by the tubular morphology method, which is based either on the form and position of the spermatid nuclei and the occurrence of meiotic divisions. The values of the relative frequency for the pre-meiotic, meiotic and post-meiotic phases in this species were 3.5, 0.78 and 4.8 days, respectively. The maned wolf produces about 29 million spermatozoa a day for each testis gram, therefore being classified among the species provided with a high spermatogenetic efficiency.
Spermatogenic efficiency in the spiny rat, Trinomys moojeni (Rodentia: Echimyidae).	The spiny rat (Trinomys moojeni) is a rodent found in the Atlantic Forest, which is considered one of the most diverse and threatened biomes in the world. Knowledge on reproductive biology and physiology is critical to conservation and species management, allowing the prevention of extinction and the use of males in natural and artificial reproduction programs. The main objectives of the present study were to investigate the testis structure as well as spermatogenic and Sertoli cell efficiency in the spiny rat captured in the Caraça Natural Reserve, a fragment of the Atlantic Forest located in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Ten sexually mature spiny rats were analyzed. Intraperitoneal injections of tritiated thymidine were administered to estimate duration of spermatogenesis. The testes were perfused-fixed in buffered glutaraldehyde and routinely processed for histological and morphometric analyses as well as the characterization of the stages of seminiferous epithelium cycle. Volume density (%) of seminiferous tubules and Leydig cells were 97 +/- 0.3 and 0.3 +/- 0.02, respectively. The duration of one spermatogenic cycle and total duration of spermatogenesis were 8.6 +/- 0.1 and 38.5 +/- 0.5 days, respectively. Due to the very great volume density of the seminiferous tubules, short duration of spermatogenesis, tubule length per gram of testis (approximately 40 m), great Sertoli cell efficiency (approximately 15 spermatids per Sertoli cell) and large number of Sertoli cells per testis gram (53 million), spermatogenic efficiency in the spiny rat (82 million) is by far the greatest of the mammalian species investigated thus far.
Cyclic localization change of Golgi apparatus in Sertoli cells induced by mature spermatids in rats.	Previously we reported that the intracellular localization of the Golgi apparatus of rat Sertoli cells changes during the seminiferous epithelial cycle, and that the cyclic changes seem to be correlated to specific generations of germ cells. To ascertain which generations of germ cells are responsible for the cyclic changes, we determined the relative volume of the Golgi apparatus within the basal, mid, and apical cytoplasm of Sertoli cells in testes with and without mature spermatids. In normal adult rats, the Golgi apparatus was usually localized exclusively in the basal cytoplasm, whereas at stages VII-IX it increased remarkably in mid and apical cytoplasm, with a concomitant decrease in the basal cytoplasm. In young adult testes without spermatids at steps 15-19 of spermiogenesis (2nd layer spermatids), the Golgi apparatus was localized in the basal cytoplasm throughout the seminiferous epithelial cycle. Orchiopexy maintained for 35 days following 60 days of cryptorchidism allowed germ cells to regenerate to spermatids at steps 1-14 of sperminogenesis (1st layer spermatids), but failed to change the intracellular localization of the Golgi apparatus in Sertoli cells. At 50 days after orchiopexy, when all generations of germ cells appeared in the tubules, the cyclic changes in localization of the Golgi apparatus were restored similar to those in normal adult testes. These findings indicate that the cyclic change in localization of the Golgi apparatus in Sertoli cells is evoked by the presence of 2nd layer spermatids.
Poly(ADP-ribose) metabolism is essential for proper nucleoprotein exchange during mouse spermiogenesis.	Sperm chromatin is organized in a protamine-based, highly condensed form, which protects the paternal chromosome complement in transit, facilitates fertilization, and supports correct gene expression in the early embryo. Very few histones remain selectively associated with genes and defined regulatory sequences essential to embryonic development, while most of the genome becomes bound to protamine during spermiogenesis. Chromatin remodeling processes resulting in the dramatically different nuclear structure of sperm are poorly understood. This study shows that perturbation of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) metabolism, which is mediated by PAR polymerases and PAR glycohydrolase in response to naturally occurring endogenous DNA strand breaks during spermatogenesis, results in the abnormal retention of core histones and histone linker HIST1H1T (H1t) and H1-like linker protein HILS1 in mature sperm. Moreover, genetic or pharmacological alteration of PAR metabolism caused poor sperm chromatin quality and an abnormal nuclear structure in mice, thus reducing male fertility.
The role of chromatoid bodies and cytoskeleton for differentiation of rat spermatozoids]	The ultrastructural and immunocytochemical study of rat male germ cells on different developing stages has been made. The investigation of morphological changes of spermatogenic cells has demonstrated the presence of tight connections between chromatoid bodies (CBs) and other cell organelles, particularly with the nucleus and Golgi apparatus; has revealed the association of manchette noncentrosomal microtubules (MT) with spermatid perinuclear ring plasma membrane (PM) in the zone of the adhesion intercellular contact--zonula adhaerens (ZA). The comparison of the results obtained in this work with available literary data has given possibility to analyze expected pathways of noncentrosomal MT nucleation in the late spermatids. This paper puts the supposition that noncentrosomal MTs are nucleated on the sites of perinuclear ring ZA. The immunocytochemical analysis discovered two novel proteins for these cells--BASP1 and MARCKS. It has been shown that these proteins present in the CBs in the early spermatids. During the spermatozoid differentiation these proteins are revealed along the outer dense fibers (ODFs) of the sperm tail. BASP1 and MARCKS are supposed to involve in the processes of calcium accumulation in the CBs and ODFs. Calcium ions seem to play the significant role in RNA processing and protein synthesis in spermatids. Calcium is also necessary for the mobility of sperms which is mainly determined by ODFs.
Expression of mouse protamine 1 genes in transgenic mice.	Mouse protamine genes are expressed exclusively in spermatids. Mouse protamine 1 (mP1) transcriptional regulatory elements can target the expression of either marked mP1 transgenes or mP1 chimeric genes to spermatids in transgenic mice. Sequences between -40 and -465 bp relative to the transcription start site are required for expression in spermatids, whereas sequences 3' of the point of translation initiation are dispensable. mP1 transcriptional regulatory sequences were used to direct the expression of a toxic gene product to spermatids. The phenotypic consequences of toxin expression in spermatids are described.
Chromatin and microtubule organization during premeiotic, meiotic and early postmeiotic stages of Drosophila melanogaster spermatogenesis.	Larval and pupal testes of Drosophila melanogaster were fixed with a methanol/acetone fixation procedure that results in good preservation of cell morphology; fixed cells viewed by phase-contrast optics exhibit most of the structural details that can be seen in live material. Fixed testis preparations were treated with anti-tubulin antibodies and Hoechst 33258 to selectively stain microtubules and DNA. The combined analysis of cell morphology, chromatin and microtubule organization allowed a fine cytological dissection of gonial cell multiplication, spermatocyte development, meiosis and the early stages of spermatid differentiation. We placed special emphasis on the spermatocyte growth phase and the meiotic divisions, providing a description of these processes that is much more detailed than those previously reported. In addition, by means of bromo-deoxyuridine incorporation experiments, we were able to demonstrate that premeiotic DNA synthesis occurs very early during spermatocyte growth.
Radiation induction of germline mutation at a hypervariable mouse minisatellite locus.	Paternal 60Co gamma-irradiation was tested for the induction of germline mutation at the mouse hypervariable minisatellite locus, Ms6hm. Male C3H/HeN mice were exposed to 3 Gy 60Co gamma-ray and mated with C57BL/6N females. Matings were made at 1-7, 15-21 and 71-77 days post-treatment to test spermatozoa, spermatids and spermatogonia stages. Reciprocal crosses were also made with irradiated C57BL/6N males. Southern analysis was carried out on DNA from parents and F1 mice. The paternal mutation frequencies per gamete of the Ms6hm locus were 8.3, 13, 28 and 15% for the C3H/HeN control, exposed spermatozoa, spermatids and spermatogonia stages, respectively. The paternal mutation frequencies per gamete were 7.7% for the C57BL/6N control and 13% for the C57BL/6N exposed spermatozoa stage. The increase in the paternal germline mutation frequency was statistically significant for C3H/HeN spermatids irradiation (p < 0.005). The induced mutation frequencies were of the order of 10(-1), and was too high to be accounted for by the direct action of radiation on the locus. These results suggest the presence of a previously unexpected mechanism of radiation induction of germline mutation. In addition, we demonstrate that the hypervariable minisatellite locus can serve as a sensitive monitor for genetic damages to germline cells.
Behaviour of hamster and mouse round spermatid nuclei incorporated into mature oocytes by electrofusion.	Round spermatids of the hamster and mouse were electrofused with homologous mature oocytes to examine the behaviour of their nuclei within the ooplasm. A single spermatid was inserted in the perivitelline space of a mature oocyte and an electric fusion pulse given. In the hamster, the best spermatid-oocyte fusion took place when the oocytes were pretreated with neuraminidase, subjected to 30 s AC (2 MHz, 20 V/cm) followed by a single fusion DC pulse (3000 V-cm, 10 microseconds) and another 30 s AC current. Inclusion of micromolar Ca2+ and Mg2+ in the fusion medium was essential for oocyte activation. Under these conditions all oocytes were activated and 20-40% fused with spermatids. Of these fused oocytes only 5-10% had fully developed spermatid (male) and oocyte (female) pronuclei. In the rest the spermatid-derived pronuclei remained small throughout the pronuclear stage. However, nucleolus-like structures appeared de novo and DNA synthesis occurred in these small pronuclei. Regardless of the size of male pronuclei, chromosomes from the spermatid and oocyte appeared to mingle and participate in the first cleavage. About 70% of the fused oocytes developed into the 2-cell stage. Electrofusion of mouse oocytes with spermatids was less efficient. Even under the best conditions tested, less than 10% of the oocytes fused with spermatids. Here again, most spermatid nuclei remained small throughout the pronuclear stage.
The testis-specific high-mobility-group protein, a phosphorylation-dependent DNA-packaging factor of elongating and condensing spermatids.	Mammalian spermiogenesis is characterized by a striking restructuring of the spermatid chromatin caused by the replacement of nucleohistones with transition proteins and their subsequent replacement with nucleoprotamines. The onset of nuclear elongation and chromatin condensation in spermatids is accompanied by a general decrease in the transcriptional activity of the DNA. A recently identified testis-specific high-mobility-group (tsHMG) protein, similar to the human mitochondrial transcription factor I and to the linker-associated protein delta of Tetrahymena thermophila micronuclei, is thought to play a structural role in this process. We confirm by immunoblot analysis of fractionated germ cells that the presence of tsHMG is restricted to transcriptionally quiescent elongating and condensing spermatids. Purified recombinant tsHMG protein displays preferential binding to supercoiled plasmid DNA, which reversibly protects the DNA against the DNA-relaxing activity of eukaryotic topoisomerase I and also impairs the transcriptional activity of this template when assayed in vitro. The tsHMG protein can also introduce negative supercoils into a relaxed plasmid substrate in a topoisomerase I-dependent manner. We also show that the tsHMG protein is the substrate of a Ca2+-phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase C) present in testis extracts of adult mice and demonstrate that phosphorylation by protein kinase C is required for both the DNA-binding and the topoisomerase I-dependent supercoiling activities of tsHMG. Our results support the hypothesis that the spermatid tsHMG protein is a topological factor (transition protein) that can modulate the activity of topoisomerase I. This activity could contribute to the important transition in chromatin structure which leads to the decrease in DNA metabolism observed at the early stages of spermatid elongation.
Spermatids as gametes: indications and limitations.	The feasibility of achieving viable embryos, developing to term after transfer into the uterus, by fertilizing oocytes with spermatids has been demonstrated both in animal studies and in preliminary human clinical trials. Here we review the current clinical indications of spermatid conception and discuss the predictable success rates associated with each of these indications. Potential health hazards relating to the use of spermatids for conception are updated taking into account the risk of abnormal or incomplete epigenetic modifications of newly discovered human imprinted genes. We also add new experimental data showing the occurrence of spermatids in patients lacking spermatozoa and demonstrating that round spermatids recovered from patients with complete spermiogenesis failure (no elongated spermatids or spermatozoa ever detected in the patient's history) are often deficient in the factor(s) responsible for oocyte activation. The possible consequences of this deficiency for the occurrence of abnormal fertilization patterns and for the impairment of further preimplantation and post-implantation development are discussed. It is concluded that the development of diagnostic tests to assess the intrinsic quality of spermatids, with regard to their ability to act as gametes, is urgently needed as part of pre-treatment diagnosis before infertile couples are included in a spermatid conception programme. Centres wishing to use spermatids in human assisted reproduction should also be prepared to offer adequate diagnostic methods to control genomic imprinting abnormalities in the progeny.
Localisation of inositol trisphosphate and ryanodine receptors during mouse spermatogenesis: possible functional implications.	During spermatogenesis the activity of intracellular Ca(2+)-release channels is likely to play an important role in different specific cellular functions. Accordingly, messenger RNAs for the three inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) subtypes were found to be present throughout spermatogenesis. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed distinct distribution patterns of the mature IP3Rs during sperm differentiation. At early stages, IP3Rs are distributed throughout the cytoplasm, and as differentiation proceeds they become selectively localised to the Golgi complex. Consistently, spermatogonia underwent large intracellular Ca2+ release in response to thapsigargin (TG), while smaller responses were detected in late spermatocytes and spermatids. The distribution of IP3Rs and the larger Ca(2+)-release responses found in spermatogonia, suggest that IP3Rs may be involved in cell proliferation at this stage. This notion is supported by our observations in a spermatogenic cell line that depletion of intracellular Ca2+ pools using TG inhibits cell division, and that incubation with an IP3R-I antisense oligonucleotide completely inhibited proliferation. Furthermore, the three genes encoding ryanodine receptor proteins (RyRs) are expressed at all stages of spermatogenesis. However, immunocytochemical studies with specific antibodies against each of the RyR subtypes detected types 1 and 3 in spermatogenic cells and only type 3 in mature sperm. In contrast to IP3Rs, RyRs remain scattered in the cytoplasm throughout differentiation. Functional responses to caffeine and ryanodine were absent in spermatogenic cells and in mature sperm. These findings suggest that IP3Rs have significantly more important roles in spermatogenesis than RyRs, and that one of these roles is crucial for cell proliferation.
Round spermatids from hybrid sterile mice can initiate normal embryo development.	Fertilization and embryo development following intracytoplasmic injection of round spermatids collected from hybrid sterile mice (BALB/c) were investigated. The rates of oocyte activation, blastocyst formation and development into live offspring were compared with those after intracytoplasmic injection of round spermatids from fertile mice (B6D2F1). The injection of oocytes with round spermatids from hybrid sterile or sterile males resulted in similar rates of normal fertilization and embryo development. The rates of development to term of 2-cell embryos were also similar, regardless of the origin of the round spermatids injected. This finding suggested that round spermatids from hybrid sterile mice have the ability to fertilize normally and to allow normal embryo development.
