A cell surface/plasma membrane antigen of Candida albicans.	Antibody from BALB/cByJ mice immunized against a membranous fraction of Candida albicans agglutinated whole cells as well as the membranous fraction. Hybridoma techniques were used to isolate an IgM monoclonal antibody (mAb) designated 10G which agglutinated whole cells and reacted with the subcellular fraction. Yeast cells of 15 additional C. albicans strains and isolates of C. stellatoidea, C. tropicalis, C. intermedia and C. lusitaniae were also agglutinated by mAb 10G. The antigen was not detected on other fungi, including Candida krusei, C. utilis, Cryptococcus neoformans, Cr. albidus, Torulopsis glabrata, Rhodotorula spp. and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To determine the cellular location of the epitope to which mAb 10G is specific, freeze-substitution was compared with traditional chemical fixation methods in preparation of samples for immunocolloidal gold electron microscopy (IEM). With both fixation procedures, the antigen recognized by mAb 10G was found randomly and densely concentrated on the plasma membrane on exponential-phase yeast-form cells and had a patchy distribution on the cell wall surface. Association of the antigen with the plasma membrane was confirmed by IEM of isolated membranes. On developing hyphal cells, antigen appeared first on the plasma membrane and later on the cell wall surface. Treatment of yeast cells with beta-mercaptoethanol and Zymolyase before fixation removed the antigen from the surface but left the cytoplasmic antigen undisturbed. Treatment of yeast cells or solubilized antigen with heat or proteolytic enzyme (trypsin, Pronase B, proteinase K) did not remove or destroy the antigen, suggesting a non-protein nature of the epitope.
Validation and development of an immunofluorescence method for isolating and identifying mycobacteria L forms]	The complement fixation test and the immunofluorescence test have demonstrated that the L-forms of mycobacteria retain their species-specific and genus-specific determinants and possess serological activity. The L-variants obtained by different methods differ in size, depending on the degree of the destruction of their cell wall. Specific antisera to the L-forms of mycobacteria, suitable for use in the indirect immunofluorescence test, have been obtained. These antisera are highly specific and permit not only the rapid detection, but also identification of the L-forms.
Localization of enterobacterial common antigen: Proteus mirabilis and its various L-forms.	An investigation of Proteus mirabilis wild-type strains and their various derived L-forms shows that the enterobacterial common antigen (ECA) is localized in the outer membrane of the cell envelope of these strains. In strains where the outer membrane is lacking (stable protoplast L-forms) or where its amount is reduced (spheroplast UL19) no ECA or only reduced amounts of it are detected by serological tests or by ferritin-labeling techniques.
