Growth of the cranial base in craniosynostosis.	The configuration of the neurocranium has long been used as a diagnostic tool in assessing infants with abnormal head shape. In the case of craniosynostosis, a characteristic shape is caused by a constraint placed on growth of the neurocranium by prematurely closed sutures and secondary accommodation to that constraint. This investigation is a preliminary test of our hypotheses of growth of the cranial base under these constraints. Three dimensional landmark coordinate data were collected from pre-, peri-, and postoperative CT scans of eleven patients from The Cleft Palate and Craniofacial Deformities Institute, St. Louis, MO. These data were used in two sets of analytical comparisons. Comparisons of preoperative and perioperative morphology were taken to represent preoperative growth, while comparisons of perioperative to postoperative CT scans represent postoperative growth. Finite-element scaling analysis (FESA) and Euclidean distance matrix analysis (EDMA) were used to make these comparisons. Our results show that in cases involving premature closure of the metopic, sagittal, and bilateral coronary sutures, predictions about growth of the cranial base made prior to analysis prove correct. In these forms of craniosynostosis there are characteristic and consistent changes in the cranial base in both pre- and postoperative growth. Preoperative and postoperative growth in patients diagnosed with unicoronal synostosis show a greater degree of individual variability and do not follow a predictable pattern.
Spheno-occipital synchondrosis fusion in modern Americans.	This study examines spheno-occipital synchondrosis fusion in the modern American population and presents age ranges for forensic use. The sample includes 162 modern individuals aged 5-25 years. The basilar synchondrosis was scored as open, closing, or closed via direct inspection of the ectocranial site of the suture. Transition analysis was used to determine the average ages at which an individual transitions from unfused to fusing and from fusing to fused. The maximum likelihood estimates from the transition analysis indicate that females are most likely to transition from open to closing at 11.4 years and males at 16.5 years. Females transition from closing to closed at 13.7 years and males at 17.4 years. The probability distributions associated with these maximum likelihood estimates were used to derive age ranges for age estimation purposes. These results reflect sexual dimorphism in basilar synchondrosis fusion and agree approximately with average age at pubertal onset.
The spheno-occipital synchondrosis: the missing link between the profession's concept of craniofacial growth and orthodontic treatment.	The role of the speno-occipital synchondrosis in craniofacial growth as it affects the spatial position of the upper face and maxillary dentition has been masked by the traditional method of superimposing cephalometric tracings on the anterior cranial base. Furthermore, the erroneous assumption that the overall direction of growth of the face is demonstrated by superimosing stable areas of the anterior cranial base has led to gross misinterpretation of treatment results throughout our literature.
