Erythrocyte ankyrin promoter mutations associated with recessive hereditary spherocytosis cause significant abnormalities in ankyrin expression.	Ankyrin defects are the most common cause of hereditary spherocytosis (HS). In several kindreds with recessive, ankyrin-deficient HS, mutations have been identified in the ankyrin promoter that have been proposed to decrease ankyrin synthesis. We analyzed the effects of two mutations, -108T to C and -108T to C in cis with -153G to A, on ankyrin expression. No difference between wild type and mutant promoters was demonstrated in transfection or gel shift assays in vitro. Transgenic mice with a wild type ankyrin promoter linked to a human (A)gamma-globin gene expressed gamma-globin in 100% of erythrocytes in a copy number-dependent, position-independent manner. Transgenic mice with the mutant -108 promoter demonstrated variegated gamma-globin expression, but showed copy number-dependent and position-independent expression similar to wild type. Severe effects in ankyrin expression were seen in mice with the linked -108/-153 mutations. Three transgenic lines had undetectable levels of (A)gamma-globin mRNA, indicating position-dependent expression, and four lines expressed significantly lower levels of (A)gamma-globin mRNA than wild type. Two of four expressing lines showed variegated gamma-globin expression, and there was no correlation between transgene copy number and RNA level, indicating copy number-independent expression. These data are the first demonstration of functional defects caused by HS-related, ankyrin gene promoter mutations.
beta-Spectrin S(ta) Bárbara: a novel frameshift mutation in hereditary spherocytosis associated with detectable levels of mRNA and a germ cell line mosaicism.	Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is a common inherited anaemia characterized by the presence of spherocytic red cells and by a heterogeneous nature in terms of its clinical presentation, molecular basis and inheritance. Defects in several membrane protein genes have been involved in the pathogenesis of HS, including defects in the beta-spectrin gene. We detected a novel frameshift mutation in the beta-spectrin gene, a C deletion at codon 638, in a patient presenting with HS and spectrin deficiency. The mutant protein was not detected in the membrane or in other cellular compartments, but detectable levels of mutant mRNA were found in the patient. Interestingly, this mutation was not present in the patient's parents, suggesting a genetic mosaicism, especially as the patient has an affected brother with the same molecular defect. We analysed DNA from different tissues of the parents and the mutation was absent from all tissues analysed. This mutation seems to be confined to the germ cell lineage of the patient's mother and must present a mosaic pattern in these cells as the patient also has unaffected siblings.
Defects in processing and trafficking of the AE1 Cl-/HCO3- exchanger associated with inherited distal renal tubular acidosis.	Distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) results from impaired urinary acidification by the renal collecting duct. Acquired dRTA can be secondary to diverse pathological processes, including diabetic, ischemic, fibrosing, or immunological processes; less frequently it presents as a familial disorder with either an autosomal recessive or dominant pattern of transmission. Mutations in the SLC4A1/AE1/band 3 Cl(-)/HCO(3)(-) exchanger gene have been identified as causes for both dominant and recessive forms of dRTA. These mutations comprise a group almost entirely distinct from the SLC4A1 mutations that underlie the familial hemolytic anemia of hereditary spherocytosis. Why does one group of mutations express almost exclusively an isolated erythroid phenotype, whereas the second group of mutations expresses almost exclusively a phenotype explicable entirely by defective function of renal collecting duct type A intercalated cells? This review summarizes current research addressing this central question in the pathobiology of inherited dRTA associated with mutations in the SLC4A1 gene. Studying dRTA-associated mutant AE1 polypeptides can provide novel insights into the biology of the intercalated cell and the collecting duct as well as more generally into mechanisms by which epithelial cells generate and maintain functional polarity.
Hereditary spherocytosis--defects in proteins that connect the membrane skeleton to the lipid bilayer.	The molecular causes of hereditary spherocytosis (HS) have been unraveled in the past decade. No frequent defect is found, and nearly every family has a unique mutation. In dominant HS, nonsense and frameshift mutations of ankyrin, band 3, and beta-spectrin predominate. Recessive HS is most often due to compound heterozygosity of defects in ankyrin, alpha-spectrin, or protein 4.2. Common combinations include a defect in the promoter or 5'-untranslated region of ankyrin paired with a missense mutation, a low expression allele of alpha-spectrin plus a missense mutation, and various mutations in the gene for protein 4.2. In most patients' red cells, no abnormal protein is present. Only rare missense mutations, like ankyrin Walsrode (V463I) or beta-spectrin Kissimmee (W202R), have given any insight into the functional domains of the respective proteins. Although the eminent role of the spleen in the premature hemolysis of red cells in HS is unquestioned, the molecular events that cause splenic conditioning of spherocytes are unclear. Electron micrographs show that small membrane vesicles are shed during the formation of spherocytes. Animal models give further insight into the pathogenetic consequences of membrane protein defects as well as the causes of the variability of disease severity.
Deficiency of alpha-spectrin synthesis in burst-forming units-erythroid in lethal hereditary spherocytosis.	A child diagnosed in utero with hydrops fetalis and a hematocrit of 6.4% was studied to determine the etiology of the anemia. Fetal red blood cells (RBCs) obtained during in utero transfusion had extremely abnormal osmotic fragility. A maternal history of mild autosomal dominant hereditary spherocytosis was present, and the father, who was hematologically normal, had a slightly abnormal osmotic fragility test. The patient was transfusion dependent after birth, with circulating nucleated RBCs but less than 1% reticulocytes. The patient's anemia failed to respond to splenectomy. Because mature RBCs of the patient were not available for study, progenitor-derived erythroblasts grown in culture were investigated. Immunodot assays of the patient's progenitor-derived cells showed a total cell spectrin content 26% of normal. Immunoprecipitation of whole burst-forming units-erythroid-derived cells and solubilized membranes from cells pulse-labeled with 35S-methionine showed a severe deficiency in alpha-spectrin synthesis and a markedly reduced amount of alpha- and beta-spectrin on cell membranes. No alpha-spectrin degradation products were found within the cells or were produced during membrane preparation. Ankyrin content and band 3 synthesis were not different from control. Inheritance of two genetic defects causing severely reduced alpha-spectrin synthesis is proposed as the cause of the lethal anemia, resulting in cell fragmentation during precursor enucleation or during egress from bone marrow.
Band 3 Edmonton I, a novel mutant of the anion exchanger 1 causing spherocytosis and distal renal tubular acidosis.	dRTA (distal renal tubular acidosis) and HS (hereditary spherocytosis) are two diseases that can be caused by mutations in the gene encoding the AE1 (anion exchanger 1; Band 3). dRTA is characterized by defective urinary acidification, leading to metabolic acidosis, renal stones and failure to thrive. HS results in anaemia, which may require regular blood transfusions and splenectomy. Mutations in the gene encoding AE1 rarely cause both HS and dRTA. In the present paper, we describe a novel AE1 mutation, Band 3 Edmonton I, which causes dominant HS and recessive dRTA. The patient is a compound heterozygote with the new mutation C479W and the previously described mutation G701D. Red blood cells from the patient presented a reduced amount of AE1. Expression in a kidney cell line showed that kAE1 (kidney AE1) C479W is retained intracellularly. As kAE1 is a dimer, we performed co-expression studies and found that, in kidney cells, kAE1 C479W and G701D proteins traffic independently from each other despite their ability to form heterodimers. Therefore the patient carries one kAE1 mutant that is retained in the Golgi (G701D) and another kAE1 mutant (C479W) located in the endoplasmic reticulum of kidney cells, and is thus probably unable to reabsorb bicarbonate into the blood. We conclude that the C479W mutant is a novel trafficking mutant of AE1, which causes HS due to a decreased cell-surface AE1 protein and results in dRTA due to its intracellular retention in kidney.
Mutation of conserved histidines alters tertiary structure and nanomechanics of consensus ankyrin repeats.	The conserved TPLH tetrapeptide motif of ankyrin repeats (ARs) plays an important role in stabilizing AR proteins, and histidine (TPLH)-to-arginine (TPLR) mutations in this motif have been associated with a hereditary human anemia, spherocytosis. Here, we used a combination of atomic force microscopy-based single-molecule force spectroscopy and molecular dynamics simulations to examine the mechanical effects of His → Arg substitutions in TPLH motifs in a model AR protein, NI6C. Our molecular dynamics results show that the mutant protein is less mechanically stable than the WT protein. Our atomic force microscopy results indicate that the mechanical energy input necessary to fully unfold the mutant protein is only half of that necessary to unfold the WT protein (53 versus 106 kcal/mol). In addition, the ability of the mutant to generate refolding forces is also reduced. Moreover, the mutant protein subjected to cyclic stretch-relax measurements displays mechanical fatigue, which is absent in the WT protein. Taken together, these results indicate that the His → Arg substitutions in TPLH motifs compromise mechanical properties of ARs and suggest that the origin of hereditary spherocytosis may be related to mechanical failure of ARs.
Embolisation of the splenic artery as an alternative to splenectomy for treating hereditary spherocytosis.	In 48 years old men with microspherocytosis constantly refusing splenectomy an experimental embolisation of the spleen artery with Spongostan was performed. 5 years of follow-up confirm the efficiency of this method of management. Further observations, however, are needed to formulate the indication for this method of treatment.
