Amphiphile-induced vesiculation in aged hereditary spherocytosis erythrocytes indicates normal membrane stability properties under non-starving conditions.	Aged HS erythrocytes with a defined primary defect in band 3 protein or ankyrin were incubated with amphiphiles (detergents) at sublytic concentrations (37 C, 60 min) or glucose-starved (37 C, 24 h). In line with previous studies, the release of AChE (exovesicles) from HS erythrocytes during glucose-starvation was significantly higher (11%) compared to that from control erythrocytes (1%). Control and HS cells responded, however, similarly to amphiphile-treatment (non-starving conditions). Amphiphiles induced similar types of shape alterations and a similar amount of AChE release (14-15%). Furthermore, the size and shape of amphiphile-induced exo- and endovesicles released from control and HS erythrocytes were similar. The results suggest that the stability properties of the membrane are not seriously disturbed in aged HS erythrocytes under non-starving conditions.
Temporal differences in membrane loss lead to distinct reticulocyte features in hereditary spherocytosis and in immune hemolytic anemia.	Spherocytic red cells with reduced membrane surface area are a feature of hereditary spherocytosis (HS) and some forms of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA). It is generally assumed that membrane loss in spherocytic red cells occurs during their sojourn in circulation. The structural basis for membrane loss in HS is improper assembly of membrane proteins, whereas in AIHA it is due to partial phagocytosis of circulating red cells by macrophages. A hypothesis was formed that these different mechanisms should lead to temporal differences in surface area loss during red cell genesis and during sojourn in circulation in these 2 spherocytic syndromes. It was proposed that cell surface loss could begin at the reticulocyte stage in HS, whereas surface area loss in AIHA involves only circulating mature red cells. The validity of this hypothesis was established by documenting differences in cellular features of reticulocytes in HS and AIHA. Using a novel technique to quantitate cell surface area, the decreased membrane surface area of both reticulocytes and mature red cells in HS compared with normal cells was documented. In contrast, in AIHA only mature red cells but not reticulocytes exhibited decreased membrane surface area. These data imply that surface area loss in HS, but not in AIHA, is already present at the circulating reticulocyte stage. These findings imply that loss of cell surface area is an early event during genesis of HS red cells and challenge the existing concepts that surface area loss in HS occurs predominantly during the sojourn of mature red cells in circulation.
Recombinant Human Erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) therapy in a newborn with hereditary spherocytosis]	The newborn with hereditary spherocytosis can develop severe anemia, requiring red blood cell transfusions. Therapy with r-HuEPO has been proposed to avoid transfusions.
Osmotic swelling and hole formation in membranes of thalassemic and spherocytic erythrocytes.	Osmotic swelling and kinetics of the pore formation in the membranes of spherocytic, thalassemic, and normal erythrocytes were studied by measuring the time-dependent capacitance and conductance at a frequency of 0.2 MHz. No significant difference between the swelling rate of control and spherocytic cells was observed, whereas slower kinetics of swelling were found for thalassemic cells. Time records of the conductance indicate that the probability of the pore formation in the stretched membrances varies in the following order: thalassemia < control < spherocytosis. Based on these findings it was concluded that the erythrocyte swelling is controlled by the initial cell shape, volume, intracellular hemoglobin concentration, and elastic membrane properties, whereas the kinetics of the pore formation depend solely on the resistivity of the stretched membrane of the swollen RBC to the osmotic shock. Therefore, it was assumed that investigations of the pore formation may be used not only for examinations of spherocytic and thalassemic cells, but also for normocytic, normochromic, biconcave-shaped RBCs with altered membrane elasticity.
Calcium transport and adenosine triphosphatase activities of erythrocyte membranes in congenital spherocytosis.	Calcium transport from red cells was measured in seventeen patients with congenital or hereditary spherocytosis (HS). The efflux remained at a lower level in resealed ghost cells of patients than in normal cells both in the presence and absence of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). We studied the activities of Ca2+,Mg2+-ATPase, ouabain-sensitive Na+,K+-ATPase, Mg2+-ATPase and Ca2+-(spectrin-)ATPase in cell membranes prepared by washing the cells with hypotonic medium. The mean +/-SD Ca2+,Mg2+-ATPase/Mg2+-ATPase of HS patients was 3.34 +/- 1.06, and 2.81 +/- 0.42 in control subjects. Na+,K+-ATPase/Mg2+-ATPase was 2.38 +/- 0.38 in HS cells compared to 2.01 +/- 0.41 in normal cells. Ca2+-ATPase/Mg2+-ATPase of HS membranes was 0.57 +/- 0.18 and the control value 0.43 +/- 0.08. These data indicate calcium retention in the erythrocytes of HS patients in spite of increases in Ca2+,Mg2+-ATPase activity in the majority of patients.
Identification of quantitative trait loci that modify the severity of hereditary spherocytosis in wan, a new mouse model of band-3 deficiency.	Defects in red blood cell (RBC) membrane skeleton components cause hereditary spherocytosis (HS). Clinically, HS varies significantly even among individuals with identical gene defects, illustrating the profound effects of genetic background on disease severity. We exploited a new spontaneous mouse model, wan, which arose on the inbred C3H/HeJ strain, to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) that modify the HS phenotype. Homozygous wan mice have severe HS due to a complete deficiency of erythroid band 3. A QTL analysis of RBC count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin content (MCHC) was performed in wan/wan mice from an F2 intercross between C3H/HeJ(+/wan) and CAST/Ei(+/+) F1 hybrids. Hematologic and survival data from C3H, CAST/Ei F2 wan homozygotes support the hypothesis that genetic modifiers significantly influence the band-3 null HS phenotype. Significant QTL were identified for the MCV trait only, suggesting that RBC membrane characteristics are a target for modifier gene action. The most significant quantitative trait locus, Hsm1 (hereditary spherocytosis modifier 1), localizes to mouse Chromosome 12 and is dominant. The peak LOD score was obtained with a marker for Spnb1 encoding erythroid beta-spectrin, an obvious candidate gene.
Pregnancy complicated by hereditary spherocytosis.	Hereditary spherocytosis is a spectrum of inherited erythrocyte membrane defects that result in hemolysis and varying degrees of anemia. Among 50 pregnancies in 23 women with spherocytosis, maternal complications were infrequent except for anemia, and perinatal outcomes were generally good. In six women, blood volume expansion estimated by 51chromium-tagged erythrocytes was similar to that for normal pregnant women. Mean red cell survival measured during seven pregnancies in six women ranged at 30-90 days, consistent with the heterogeneity of this disorder.
Splenic sequestration associated with sickle cell trait and hereditary spherocytosis.	Coexistence of sickle cell trait and hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is unusual, and only 16 cases have been reported in the literature. These patients have the same clinical and hematological features as individuals having HS alone. We report a serious complication, acute splenic sequestration crisis (ASSC), occurring in two patients with sickle cell trait and HS. One patient experienced four episodes of ASSC during an 11-year span, while the other had two episodes of this complication during a 4-year period. Red blood cell studies and membrane protein analysis confirmed the diagnosis of HS as a consequence of spectrin deficiency. Splenectomy resulted in marked clinical and hematological improvement in both patients. Histological examination of spleens following splenectomy confirmed that significant erythrostasis and sickling had indeed occurred. ASSC can occur in patients with coexistence of sickle cell trait and HS, and this potentially life-threatening complication should be considered in this condition.
Human parvovirus B19 as the cause of aplastic crisis in hereditary spherocytosis]	A seven months old boy was admitted to hospital for investigation and treatment of severe anaemia. The final diagnosis was hereditary spherocytosis. When, six weeks later, he developed an aplastic crisis, serological criteria provided evidence of recent human parvovirus B19 infection. The same disease was detected in the family. Human parvovirus B19 is shown to be of particular interest in aplastic crisis.
Lipid profile in beta-thalassemia intermedia patients: correlation with erythroid bone marrow activity.	Lipid abnormalities, including low levels of all fractions of serum lipids, have been repeatedly reported in all phenotypes of beta-thalassemia. Unexpectedly, in more recent studies, the concentration of total cholesterol (TC) and high- and/or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C and LDL-C) has been found in beta-thalassemia intermedia (TI) patients even lower than in thalassemia major, without a clear explanation of pathophysiology of these findings. This lack of information prompted us to evaluate the plasma lipids and lipoproteins pattern in the TI patients followed in our department; the data were compared with those found in hereditary spherocytosis patients. Furthermore, in both groups of patients, the erythroid bone marrow activity was evaluated, utilizing the level of soluble transferrin receptors (sTfR) in the plasma. Both groups of patients showed similar lipid abnormalities (low-TC, HDL-C and LDL-C) and the same increase of sTfR, with significantly lower hemoglobin levels in TI patients. Data analysis of our study shows that the lipid profile in TI patients is not influenced by age, sex, liver injury, hemoglobin or ferritin levels; the higher erythroid bone marrow activity with the enhanced cholesterol consumption could be the dominant mechanism implicated in the lipid abnormalities of TI patients.
Complementary markers for the clinical severity classification of hereditary spherocytosis in unsplenectomized patients.	Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is usually classified as mild, moderate or severe using conventional features, namely, hemoglobin (Hb) concentration, reticulocyte count and bilirubin levels, which do not always contribute to an adequate clinical classification. The aim of our study was to establish the importance of some laboratory routine parameters, as markers of HS clinical outcome, by studying a control group (n=26) and unsplenectomized HS patients (n=82) presenting mild, moderate or severe HS. We performed a basic hematologic study and evaluated the reticulocyte count, bilirubin, erythropoietin (EPO) and soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) levels; the osmotic fragility (OFT) and criohemolysis tests (CHT); the ratios Hb/MCHC (mean cell hemoglobin concentration), Hb/RDW (red cell distribution width) and MCHC/RDW, were calculated. Hb changed significantly in accordance with HS severity, but not reticulocytes or bilirubin. We found that MCHC, RDW, EPO, sTfR, OFT, CHT and the calculated ratios were significantly changed in patients, and, therefore, were valuable as complementary diagnostic tools for HS. Moreover, RDW, Hb/MCHC, Hb/RDW and MCHC/RDW changed significantly with worsening of HS; thus, they are also good markers for the clinical outcome of HS. In conclusion, we propose the use of these routine parameters as useful to complement the analysis of HS severity.
Study of serum hepcidin in hereditary hemolytic anemias.	The aim of this study was to assess the level of hepcidin in hereditary chronic hemolytic anemias and to correlate the serum hepcidin levels to the need for blood transfusions (frequency of blood transfusions and the serum ferritin level). Seventy pediatric patients with hereditary chronic hemolytic anemias, attending to hematology clinics of Cairo University and Misr University for Science and Technology (MUST) hospitals were the subjects of this study [53 patients with β-thalassemia major (β-TM), 10 patients with β-thalassemia intermedia (β-TI), four patients with congenital spherocytosis and three patients with sickle cell disease) (38 males and 32 females)]; their ages ranged from 1-14 years. Seventy normal children, age- and sex-matched, served as the control group. The results of this study revealed decreased hepcidin levels in patients (all types of congenital chronic hemolytic anemias) [mean ± SD (standard deviation) = 22.9 ± 6.0] compared to controls (mean ± SD = 132.4 ± 16.7) with highly significant statistical difference in between. Hepcidin levels were higher in β-TM patients (mean ± SD = 23.7 ± 6.2) than in β-TI patients (mean ± SD = 21.8 ± 4.0), the hepcidin to ferritin ratio was significantly less than one. In β-TM patients, the mean ± SD was 0.03 ± 0.004, and in β-TI patients the mean ± SD = 0.025 ± 0.002, with highly significant statistical difference with hepcidin-to-ferritin ratios in controls being mean ± SD = 2.3 ± 0.7. Hepcidin and hepcidin/ferritin ratios can be used as good markers of hemolytic anemia and iron overload as they have very high sensitivity (99.0 and 99.0%, respectively) and very high specificity (98.0 and 97.0%, respectively). Our findings highlight the potential usefulness of hepcidin measurement as a diagnostic tool. The use of hepcidin as an adjuvant therapy with iron chelators is important as it has a vital role in combating hemosidrosis.
Hereditary spherocytosis, elliptocytosis, and other red cell membrane disorders.	Hereditary spherocytosis and elliptocytosis are the two most common inherited red cell membrane disorders resulting from mutations in genes encoding various red cell membrane and skeletal proteins. Red cell membrane, a composite structure composed of lipid bilayer linked to spectrin-based membrane skeleton is responsible for the unique features of flexibility and mechanical stability of the cell. Defects in various proteins involved in linking the lipid bilayer to membrane skeleton result in loss in membrane cohesion leading to surface area loss and hereditary spherocytosis while defects in proteins involved in lateral interactions of the spectrin-based skeleton lead to decreased mechanical stability, membrane fragmentation and hereditary elliptocytosis. The disease severity is primarily dependent on the extent of membrane surface area loss. Both these diseases can be readily diagnosed by various laboratory approaches that include red blood cell cytology, flow cytometry, ektacytometry, electrophoresis of the red cell membrane proteins, and mutational analysis of gene encoding red cell membrane proteins. 
Acute kernicterus in a neonate with O/B blood group incompatibility and a mutation in SLC4A1.	We cared for a term female newborn, who at 108 hours of age, with a total serum bilirubin of 15.4 mg/dL, was discharged from the hospital on home phototherapy. At a return appointment 44 hours later, her total serum bilirubin was 41.7 mg/dL and signs of acute kernicterus were present. Maternal/fetal blood group O/B incompatibility was identified, with a negative direct antiglobulin test, which was positive on retesting. She had abundant spherocytes on blood smear, and these persisted at follow-up, but neither parent had spherocytes identified. A heterozygous SLC4A1(E508K) mutation (gene encoding erythrocyte membrane protein band 3) was found, and in silico predicted to result in damaged erythrocyte cytoskeletal protein function. No mutations were identified in other red cell cytoskeleton genes (ANK1, SPTA1, SPTB, EPB41, EPB42) and the UGT1A1 promoter region was normal. Neurologic follow-up at 2 and 4 months showed developmental delays consistent with mild kernicterus. 
The affinity glycated hemoglobin in a family with hereditary spherocytosis and in other non-hemoglobinopathic hemolytic anemias.	The glycated hemoglobin (GHb) is lowered by hemolytic anemia. The cation-exchange HbA1 has been shown to be lowered by hereditary spherocytosis (HS). The HbA1, however, can be increased by elevations of fetal hemoglobin (HbF). The affinity GHb, a parameter related to, but not identical with, the HbA1, and unaffected by HbF, has been shown to be low in hemoglobinopathies but not, to our knowledge, in HS and other non-hemoglobinopathic hemolytic anemias. Therefore, the affinity GHb and HbF was determined in four members of an HS family and in nine other cases of non-hemoglobinopathic hemolytic anemia, including three autoimmune hemolytic anemias, four red cell fragmentation syndromes (two "Waring blender" syndromes, one thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura in association with tumor, and one case of disseminated intravascular coagulation), and two red cell membrane defects: paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria and another case of hereditary spherocytosis. The GHb for these nine cases was 3.6 +/- 1.7 percent (normal 6.0 +/- 2.0 percent; p less than 0.001). The reticulocyte count, available in four cases, was 0.23 +/- 0.14 and correlated negatively with the GHb. The average GHb in the HS family was 3.9 +/- 0.8 percent, which was significantly less than the normal of 6.0 +/- 2.0 percent (p less than 0.001); the HbF was less than 1.0 percent. It is concluded that the GHb is diminished in hemolytic anemias not associated with hemoglobinopathies and that this lowering reflects the shortened red cell life span in these processes. To our knowledge, this is the first report of low GHb in hemolytic anemia not associated with hemoglobinopathy, by the affinity chromatographic technique, as opposed to the cation-exchange chromatographic technique.
Ca2+ influx in normal and spherocytic red cells.	The influx of 45Ca2+ into normal red cells and various types of spherocytic red cells was studied after blocking active Ca2+ extrusion by vanadate. The measurements were performed with and without verapamil, a calcium antagonist. The influx of Ca2+ into red cells from unsplenectomized persons was 22 +/- 7 mumol/l packed red cells/h (mean +/- SD), and 17 +/- 7 mumol/l per h when incubated with verapamil. The influx of Ca2+ into red cells from four splenectomized normal controls was of the same magnitude as in the unsplenectomized controls but there was no effect of verapamil on the influx rate. The influx of Ca2+ into red cells from nine splenectomized patients with hereditary spherocytosis (HS) was 27 +/- 9 mumol/l per h without and 24 +/- 9 mumol/l per h with verapamil. In 9 normal red cell samples made spherocytic by thermal damage the corresponding values were 32 +/- 16 and 31 +/- 19 mumol/l per h, respectively. The uptake of Ca2+ in chlorpromazine-induced spherocytic red cells was 20 +/- 4 mumol/l per h without and 19 +/- 5 mumol/l per h with verapamil in 9 experiments. These results indicate that although in HS erythrocytes changes in the cell membrane lead to an increased Ca2+ influx, the slow calcium channels are not affected, whereas in spherocytes induced by thermal damage or by incubation with chlorpromazine the channels are blocked, at least partly.
Measurement of phospholipids in erythrocytes, plasma and platelets in a patient with hereditary spherocytosis]	The amount and distribution of phospholipids (PLs) were studied in erythrocytes, plasma and platelets of one patient with hereditary spherocytosis (HS). Phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was always decreased. Total PLs amount was remarkably reduced in erythrocytes but normal in platelets. Since platelets do not contain those proteins which have been implicated in the red cell abnormalities of patients with HS, our findings reinforce the theory that a defective protein-lipid interaction causes the abnormal lipid loss in the erythrocytes of these patients.
Rapid local oscillations of the surface of the human erythrocyte]	The transverse displacements of the human erythrocyte surface with amplitude 300-400 nm in the frequency range 0.2-30 Hz are recorded on the minimal area erythrocyte rim (approximately 0.5 X 0.5 microns). These local oscillations of the surface are diminished at hypoosmotic erythrocyte swelling, on addition of substances which increase the membrane rigidity (0.01% glutaraldehyde, 0.5 mM 4-hydroxymercuribenzoate, cell membrane stain--0.002% Heliogen Blue) and on discocyte--echinocyte transformation due to addition of 1-2 mM 2,4-dinitrophenol. The amplitude of transverse displacements is reduced by 1.7-2 times on erythrocytes of patients with inherent microspherocytosis. These erythrocytes have inherent defects in spectrin. It is suggested that spectrin is important for rapid local oscillations of the human erythrocyte surface.
A spin-label study of membrane proteins and internal microviscosity of erythrocytes in hereditary spherocytosis.	Electron spin resonance (ESR) spectra of erythrocyte membranes of patients with hereditary spherocytosis (HS) and of healthy controls labeled with a maleimide spin label did not differ significantly both before and after prolonged incubation at 37 degrees C. It suggests that the different behavior of spin-labeled HS erythrocyte membranes upon incubation at a higher temperature reported previously is due indeed to structural abnormalities of HS red cell membranes and not to alterations in their proteolytic activity. Measurements of the rotational correlation time of Tempamine spin probe demonstrated a significant elevation of internal microviscosity of erythrocytes in HS, more pronounced in non-splenectomized patients.
Abnormal degradation of erythrocyte membrane proteins in hereditary spherocytosis.	The degradation rate of erythrocyte membrane proteins by membrane-bound proteases was compared in healthy controls and in patients with hereditary spherocytosis (HS). An increased degradation rate of spectrin and a decreased digestion rate of Band 3 were found in HS patients. These differences may be due to altered accessibilities of membrane proteins to proteases and/or to changes in the pattern of membrane-associated proteases and may be connected with the decrease in the spectrin: Band 3 ratio reported for erythrocyte membranes in HS.
Hemoglobin autoxidation at physiological concentrations.	Methemoglobin formation was studied at near physiological hemoglobin concentration. The reaction proceeds at a faster rate when the concentration of hemoglobin is high (15-18 mM in heme) than when it is low (2 mM). Constant shaking of hemoglobin preparations during the incubation decreases the differences seen in the rates of autoxidation between concentrated and dilute samples. When red cell hemolysate is used instead of pure hemoglobin, similar results are obtained. A comparison of rates of methemoglobin formation in hemoglobin solutions under low air pressure (1/2 atm) with those under normal air pressure (1 atm) shows no differences between concentrated and dilute samples. There is also no significant difference between the rates of autoxidation of dilute and concentrated solutions when the reactions are carried out under one atmosphere of oxygen (100 percent O2). The study of one patient with hereditary spherocytosis demonstrated higher hemoglobin autoxidation rate in spherocytes, which have higher hemoglobin concentration, than in normal biconcave red cells. These results suggest that: a) the rate of hemoglobin autoxidation at red cell hemoglobin concentration is significantly faster than rates obtained by studying dilute solutions; b) although the accelerated oxidation might be related to multiple factors, one seems to be less accessibility of oxygen when the hemoglobin solution is highly concentrated.
Pitted erythrocytes in splenectomized subjects with congenital spherocytosis and in subjects splenectomized for other reasons.	Pitted erythrocytes counts are used in the quantitative assessment of functional hyposplenism and in the prediction of recurrence of splenic function in splenectomized subjects. Pitted erythrocyte counts were investigated in 16 patients splenectomized for hereditary spherocytosis, in 21 patients splenectomized for other reasons and in 23 healthy controls. In both groups of splenectomized patients the pitted erythrocyte counts were equally increased compared with the healthy controls.
Red cell survival studies in hereditary spherocytosis.	The in vivo survival of hereditary spherocytes has been investigated with the (51)Cr red cell survival technique. Spherocytes invariably showed a shorter survival in a normal recipient than in the donor's own circulation. Moreover transfusion of spherocytes from a mother to her son, both with hereditary spherocytosis, showed that "foreign" spherocytes have a shorter survival than the "self" spherocytes of the recipient. These findings are attributed to splenic reticuloendothelial blockade, specific towards hereditary spherocytes in the patient's own circulation. There was no correlation between the Na(+) influx and the hemolytic tendency of hereditary spherocytes when the latter was measured by the survival t(1/2) in compatible normal recipients. However osmotic fragility influenced cell survival since cells with high fragility were rapidly sequestered in the normal spleen. It is suggested that both cell shape and a selective reticuloendothelial blockade in the spleen are important factors in determining the severity of hemolysis in the individual patient.
Membrane lipid depletion in hyperpermeable red blood cells: its role in the genesis of spherocytes in hereditary spherocytosis.	Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) red cells lose membrane lipids excessively during incubation in vitro. Individual phosphatides as well as cholesterol are lost in proportion to their content in membranes, suggesting that fragments of membrane are removed. Supplementation of HS red cells with glucose during incubation has no consistent protective effect, whereas diminishing the excessive sodium flux through these cells by suspending them in either sodium-free or hypertonic media prevents membrane fragmentation. The characteristic excessive increase in osmotic fragility which occurs in incubated HS red cells results both from inordinate accumulation of intracellular sodium ions which produces osmotic swelling, and from depletion of surface material which generates microspherocytosis. Inhibiting both of these processes by incubating HS red cells in sodium-free media completely prevents increases in osmotic fragility despite prolonged incubation. Normal red cells rendered hyperpermeable to cations by exposure either to n-butanol or to inhibitors of membrane sulfhydryl groups, lose membrane lipid upon incubation in a similar fashion to untreated HS red cells; perfectly smooth microspherocytes, akin to those seen in HS, are thereby generated.I conclude that depletion of membrane lipids in HS which leads to microspherocytosis is correlatable with the excessive cation flux and possibly to the stimulated metabolism of acidic phosphatides in these red cells. It is suggested that this relation is derived from the fact that these phosphatides are in some way involved in maintaining the proper alignment of repeating membrane lipoprotein units, and that this function is adversely affected when these molecules are turning over more rapidly in response to increased cation flux.
Red cell membrane protein phosphorylation in hemolytic anemias and muscular dystrophies.	We review our current understanding of membrane phosphorylation in normal and abnormal erythrocytes. The major phosphoproteins in red blood cell (RBC) membranes are spectrin (band 2), bands 3, 2.1, and 4.5, and glycophorin A. At least two protein kinases can be distinguished on the basis of their stimulation by cyclic AMP and salt; they are present both in the membrane and in the cytosol. Analysis of the conflicting data on endogenous membrane-protein phosphorylation in abnormal RBCs indicates a considerable variability of phosphorylation rates which largely depends on the manner of preparation of ghosts and enzyme assay conditions. This variability reflects differences in the partitioning of protein kinases between the membrane and cytosol, the specificity and accessibility of membrane-protein substrates, and reaction kinetics. We select examples of data from several hemolytic anemias to illustrate that precautions are needed to interpret abnormalities of membrane-protein phosphorylation properly; we discuss possible new methodological approaches.
Abnormal binding of spectrin to the membrane of erythrocytes in some cases of hereditary spherocytosis.	In two cases of hereditary spherocytosis that we have examined, spectrin was bound abnormally tightly to the erythrocyte membrane, and could not be released by low ionic strength dialysis. This type of behaviour occurs in normal red cells only after heating above 50 degrees C. It appears that some cases of spherocytosis may be due to the presence of a protein which is abnormally temperature sensitive.
Marked reduction of spectrinin hereditary spherocytosis in the common house mouse.	In contrast to the disease in humans, hereditary spherocytosis in the common house mouse produces an extreme spherocytosis. The cells show a broad distribution in size ranging from microcytic to macrocytic. Of particular interest is the finding of a substantial reduction in the major membrane polypeptide called spectrin, supporting a critical role for this protein in the control of erythrocyte shape and membrane stability.
Effects of abnormal cytoskeletal structure on erythrocyte membrane mechanical properties.	Measurements of the mechanical properties of the erythrocyte membrane provide a direct assessment of the proper function of its structural components. To assess the effects of alterations in molecular structure on membrane mechanical properties, measurements have been performed on cells from six individuals whose membranes contain inherited, biochemically characterized structural defects. Because the contribution of the membrane skeleton to the mechanical behavior of the membrane is most evident in shear deformation, mechanical experiments were performed to measure the material constants which characterize the response of the membrane to shear force resultants. The surface elastic shear modulus characterizes the elastic response of the membrane; the yield shear resultant is the maximum shear force resultant which the membrane can support elastically; and the plastic viscosity coefficient characterizes the rate of membrane deformation when the elastic limit has been exceeded. Generally, it was found that when the molecular defect is found to occur in a region of the skeleton which is stress-supporting, the maximum elastic strength of the membrane is reduced. However, the magnitude of the reduction can be quite different for membranes having similar or even identical defects. In some cases the differences can be attributed to the removal of the most fragile cells of the population by the spleen, but other results indicate that the biochemical description of the defects may be incomplete. These results emphasize the need for further refinements both in the biochemical characterization of membrane skeleton structure and in the description and measurement of membrane mechanical properties.
Inherited hemolytic disease in mice: a review and update.	There are four overt hemolytic diseases in the mouse which have almost identical clinical syndromes but are genetically distinct. These include hemolytic anemia (gene symble ha), jaundice (ja), normoblastic anemia (nb) and spherocytosis (sph). Each of the hemolytic disorders arises from an intrinsic defect in erythrocyte membrane proteins. Each of the responsible genes is involved, in some fashion, in the common process of membrane development and the maintenance of its integrity. Because each gene has its own special function, the gross phenotypic manifestations, although similar, must have a different functional basis.
Hereditary spherocytosis of man. Altered binding of cytoskeletal components to the erythrocyte membrane.	Human erythrocytes possess a lattice work of extrinsic proteins on the inner face of the membrane (;cytoskeleton') that maintains the shape and deformability of the cell. The major proteins of the cytoskeleton are spectrin and actin, which are attached to the membrane by protein bands 2.1 (;ankyrin') and 4.1. The interactions of spectrin/actin with erythrocyte membranes from normal subjects and from patients with hereditary spherocytosis (HS) have been studied by using an air-driven ultracentrifuge, which can rapidly separate membranes from soluble proteins (150000g for 30s). The total amount of spectrin/actin in HS and normal ghosts is similar. However, the rate of dissociation of spectrin and actin from HS erythrocyte membranes at low ionic strength is significantly lower than that observed for normal membranes. Spectrin and actin isolated from either HS or normal membranes re-associated in a similar manner to spectrin/actin-depleted vesicles prepared from normal cells. Scatchard analysis showed an average binding capacity of 278mug/mg of membrane protein. However, spectrin/actin-depleted vesicles prepared from HS cells bound significantly less spectrin/actin prepared from either the normal or abnormal cells (average binding capacity 158mug/mg of membrane protein). The defect was defined further by studying the cytoskeleton obtained by Triton X-100 extraction of membranes. Under conditions of low ionic strength cytoskeletons prepared from HS membranes dissociated more slowly than those prepared from normal membranes, and only 80% of the protein from HS cytoskeletons could be solubilized after 180min compared with 100% for normal cytoskeletons. The difference between HS and normal membranes, which persists in isolated cytoskeletons, suggests that alterations in either the primary structure or the degree of phosphorylation of protein bands 2.1 or 4.1 may be central to the molecular basis of hereditary spherocytosis.
Glycosylated hemoglobins (GHb): an index of red cell survival.	Levels of glycosylated hemoglobins (GHb) are significantly (p less than 0.0005) lower in patients with hemolytic anemia (n = 20; mean = 3.9% +/- 0.1% SD GHb of total Hb) compared to patients with nonhemolytic anemia (n = 20; mean = 7.0% +/- 0.7% GHb) and normal controls (n = 30; mean = 6.7% +/- 0.7% GHb). A curvilinear correlation between GHb and red cell survival is demonstrable (n = 20;r2 = 0.88; p less than 0.001). Determination of GHb may be useful as a screening test for hemolytic anemia and for the evaluation of the degree of hemolysis, provided that diabetes mellitus can be excluded.
Sucrose density gradient analysis of erythrocyte membranes in hemolytic anemias.	To investigate the membrane abnormalities that may play a pathophysiologic role in several hemolytic anemias we determined the density distribution on sucrose density gradients of human red blood cell (RBC) membranes from patients with these disorders, from normal controls, and from incubated normal RBC. We analyzed the fractions for membrane-adsorbed hemoglobin (Hb), globin, and nonglobin cytoplasmic proteins. The relationship between the cytoplasmic proteins adsorbed on the membranes and the specific gravity (SG) of the membranes was linear. An increase in SG of the entire membrane population was seen in Hb C disease due to adsorbed Hb. Subpopulations of membranes with increased SG due to adsorption of nonglobin protein were evident in the membranes from two splenectomized patients with hemolytic glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) variants. Dense membrane subpopulations found in RBC membranes from three splenectomized patients with Hb Köln were associated with adsorbed globin, while similar subpopulations in RBC membranes from three splenectomized patients with hereditary spherocytosis demonstrated increased SG due to adsorbed Hb. Splenectomized normals had no such abnormality in membrane density. Sucrose density gradients demonstrate that membrane bound cytoplasmic protein is characteristic of the RBC membranes in several hemolytic disorders. Additionally, gradients are useful for the isolation and further analysis of those subpopulations of RBC membranes with abnormal SG and exaggerated membrane protein abnormalities.
Increased cation permeability in mutant mouse red blood cells with defective membrane skeletons.	Cellular cation homeostasis in mouse erythrocytes with defective membrane skeletons was examined in three mouse mutants, hemolytic anemia (sphha/sphha), spherocytosis (sph/sph), and normoblastosis (nb/nb), and compared with reticulocytes produced by repetitive bleeding of congenic normal mice. To assess reticulocyte maturity, nucleic acid and transferrin receptor contents were measured by fluorescence flow cytometry; mutant cells were somewhat more mature than normal reticulocytes by these criteria. Red blood cell (RBC) sodium contents (Nac+) in homozygous sphha/sphha, sph/sph, and nb/nb animals were 30.1 +/- 0.9, 28.9 +/- 0.3, and 26.9 +/- 1.5 mmol/L cell, respectively, whereas cellular potassium (Kc+) was 102 +/- 2.6, 101 +/- 7.8, and 97.4 +/- 3.0. Nac+ and Kc+ in normal reticulocyte preparations were 11.3 +/- 0.7 and 123 +/- 10, respectively. Net Na+ and K+ fluxes in the presence of ouabain were markedly increased in mutant RBCs. Sodium uptake was 14.8 +/- 1.6, 15.4 +/- 3.3, and 14.7 +/- 3.1 mmol/L cell/h in sphha/sphha, sph/sph, and nb/nb mutants, respectively, whereas K+ loss was 17.0 +/- 4.0, 15.0 +/- 3.8, and 14.1 +/- 2.6. Normal mouse reticulocytes gained Na+ at a rate of 3.9 +/- 1.0 mmol/L cell/h and lost K+ at 6.0 +/- 2.1, rates indistinguishable from those in mature mouse RBCs. Potassium loss from sphha/sphha and nb/nb cells was not dependent on the presence of a Na+ gradient, and net cation movements were insensitive to bumetanide (sphha/sphha and nb/nb RBCs) and to chloride replacement with sulfamate (nb/nb cells). We conclude that mutant mouse RBCs with dysfunctional membrane skeletons have increased passive permeability to monovalent cations. These findings support a role of the membrane skeleton in the maintenance of the membrane permeability barrier and suggest that the abnormal permeability associated with human hereditary spherocytosis and elliptocytosis may be a consequence of the membrane skeleton defects reported in these disorders.
Determination of spectrin in erythrocytes: an important aid in the diagnosis of hereditary spherocytosis]	Assay of spectrin in erythrocytes as a diagnostic test in hereditary spherocytosis (HS).
Red cell membrane polypeptides under normal conditions and in genetic disorders.	Broadly speaking, the red cell membrane is comprised of --a cholesterol-rich phospholipid bilayer that is studded by a large number of trans-bilayer proteins, --of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-proteins) standing outside, and --an important protein assembly, the erythrocyte or membrane skeleton, that laminates the inner surface of the bilayer. Among the trans-bilayer proteins, one finds the anion exchanger, the glycophorins, the glucose transporter, a variety of cation transporters and pumps, and of course proteins carrying the epitopes of many blood groups. Among the GPI-proteins, one encounters the acetylcholinesterase and the decay-accelerating factor (CD 55). Among the skeletal proteins, finally, one recognises spectrin, actin (and a number of actin-binding proteins other than spectrin: dematin, tropomyosin, tropomodulin, etc.), protein 4.1 and protein p55. Spectrin heterotetramer organizes into a bidimensional network with a hexagonal mesh on the average. This network is linked to trans-bilayer proteins, through the complex beta-spectrin-ankyrin-anion exchanger (+ protein 4.2) on the one hand and, on the other hand, through the triangular interaction between protein 4.1, glycophorin C and protein p55. The sequence of the above proteins and the exon-intron organisation of their genes are known in most cases. Many proteins have a widespread tissue distribution in the form of variants adapted to their local functions. Such variants may be the products of multigene families (anion exchanger, ankyrin, spectrin), or derive from a single gene (protein 4.1, protein 4.2), the transcripts of which undergo cell-specific alternative splicing. It has been established that many congenital haemolytic anaemias result from mutations altering the above-mentioned genes. We will provide two examples. Hereditary elliptocytosis stems from an array of mutations located at, or near the head-to-head self-association region of two spectrin alpha beta dimers, or from mutations which, most often, yield a reduction (heterozygous state) or the lack (homozygous state) of protein 4.1. The aggravation of elliptocytosis associated with alpha-spectrin mutations frequently yields poikilocytosis and usually stems from the occurrence, in trans, of a low expression allele, allele alpha LELY. Hereditary spherocytosis derives from mutations in the ankyrin gene (80% of the cases), the anion exchanger gene (10-15% of the cases), the protein 4.2 gene (rare cases) and the alpha- and beta-spectrin genes (rare cases). Anion exchanger mutations usually cause the decrease in this protein (heterozygous state).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Endogenous phosphorylation of membrane proteins in normal and in hereditary spherocytosis erythrocytes.	The phosphorylation state of the proteins in hereditary spherocytosis erythrocyte membranes, incubated in the presence of [gamma-32P]ATP, appears to be different from that in normal ones. This is indicated by the finding that in the two types of erythrocyte membranes the ratios between the 32P-labeling of their phosphorylserine and phosphorylthreonine residues were different.
Hereditary spherocytosis: one year study of erythrocyte membrane proteins]	Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) is a congenital hemolytic anemia which affects one person out of 5000 in Northern Europe. HS is caused by defects of the red cell membrane proteins involving mainly ankyrin or band 3, and less frequently, protein 4.2 or spectrin. The reduction of red cell osmotic resistance and the recognition of spherocytes on the peripheral blood smear are the primary laboratory tests necessary to evocate a diagnosis of hereditary spherocytosis. Analysis of the red cell membrane proteins using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis is used to quantify individual proteins and to identify the protein defect related to a diagnosis of HS. Samples from 47 patients and 25 controls were studied by electrophoresis of the red cell membrane proteins. Protein deficiencies related to HS were demonstrated for 21 patients. In 4 other cases, abnormalities of membrane proteins unrelated to HS were also demonstrated. Electrophoresis of the red cell membrane proteins allows the identification of the protein deficiency related to HS and thus confirms the diagnosis of HS, but also points to the underlying molecular defect, the inheritance pattern and the clinical aspects of the disease.
