Gene expression alterations in the sphingolipid metabolism pathways during progression of dementia and Alzheimer's disease: a shift toward ceramide accumulation at the earliest recognizable stages of Alzheimer's disease?	There is mounting evidence linking Abeta42 generation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) with sphingomyelin catabolism. Using microarray technology to study 17 brain regions from subjects with varying severity of AD and dementia we detected multiple gene expression abnormalities of the key enzymes that control sphingolipid metabolism. These changes were correlated with the progression of clinical dementia. The upregulation of gene expression of the enzymes controlling synthesis de novo of Cer and the downregulation of the enzymes involved in glycosphingolipid synthesis was evident as early in disease progression as in mild dementia. Together these changes suggest a shift in sphingolipid metabolism towards accumulation of Cer, depletion of glycosphingolipids and the reduction of synthesis of the anti-apoptosis signaling lipid-sphingosine 1-phosphate as a function of disease progression. This disrupted balance within the sphingolipid metabolism may trigger signaling events promoting neurodegeneration across cortical regions. This potential mechanism may provide a link between lipid metabolism disturbance and AD.
Sphingolipid storage affects autophagic metabolism of the amyloid precursor protein and promotes Abeta generation.	Deposition of amyloid β peptides (Aβs) in extracellular amyloid plaques within the human brain is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aβ derives from proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by β- and γ-secretases. The initial cleavage by β-secretase results in shedding of the APP ectodomain and generation of APP C-terminal fragments (APP-CTFs), which can then be further processed within the transmembrane domain by γ-secretase, resulting in release of Aβ. Here, we demonstrate that accumulation of sphingolipids (SLs), as occurs in lysosomal lipid storage disorders (LSDs), decreases the lysosome-dependent degradation of APP-CTFs and stimulates γ-secretase activity. Together, this results in increased generation of both intracellular and secreted Aβ. Notably, primary fibroblasts from patients with different SL storage diseases show strong accumulation of potentially amyloidogenic APP-CTFs. By using biochemical, cell biological, and genetic approaches, we demonstrate that SL accumulation affects autophagic flux and impairs the clearance of APP-CTFs. Thus, accumulation of SLs might not only underlie the pathogenesis of LSDs, but also trigger increased generation of Aβ and contribute to neurodegeneration in sporadic AD.
