Sphingolipids in food and the emerging importance of sphingolipids to nutrition.	Eukaryotic organisms as well as some prokaryotes and viruses contain sphingolipids, which are defined by a common structural feature, i.e. , a "sphingoid base" backbone such as D-erythro-1,3-dihydroxy, 2-aminooctadec-4-ene (sphingosine). The sphingolipids of mammalian tissues, lipoproteins, and milk include ceramides, sphingomyelins, cerebrosides, gangliosides and sulfatides; plants, fungi and yeast have mainly cerebrosides and phosphoinositides. The total amounts of sphingolipids in food vary considerably, from a few micromoles per kilogram (fruits) to several millimoles per kilogram in rich sources such as dairy products, eggs and soybeans. With the use of the limited data available, per capita sphingolipid consumption in the United States can be estimated to be on the order of 150-180 mmol (approximately 115-140 g) per year, or 0.3-0.4 g/d. There is no known nutritional requirement for sphingolipids; nonetheless, they are hydrolyzed throughout the gastrointestinal tract to the same categories of metabolites (ceramides and sphingoid bases) that are used by cells to regulate growth, differentiation, apoptosis and other cellular functions. Studies with experimental animals have shown that feeding sphingolipids inhibits colon carcinogenesis, reduces serum LDL cholesterol and elevates HDL, suggesting that sphingolipids represent a "functional" constituent of food. Sphingolipid metabolism can also be modified by constituents of the diet, such as cholesterol, fatty acids and mycotoxins (fumonisins), with consequences for cell regulation and disease. Additional associations among diet, sphingolipids and health are certain to emerge as more is learned about these compounds.
Rafts and synapses in the spatial organization of immune cell signaling receptors.	The multichain immune recognition receptors (MIRRs), including the T cell and B cell antigen receptors and the high affinity receptor for IgE, play an important role in immune cell signaling. The MIRRs have no inherent kinase activity, but rather associate with members of the Src-family kinases to initiate signaling. Although a great deal is understood about the biochemical cascades triggered by MIRRs, the mechanism by which signaling is initiated was not known. The evidence now indicates that the Src-family kinases are concentrated in cholesterol- and sphingolipid-rich membrane microdomains, termed lipid rafts, that exclude the MIRRs. Upon ligand-induced crosslinking the MIRRs translocate into rafts where they are phosphorylated. The MIRRs subsequently form highly ordered, polarized structures termed immunological synapses that provide for prolonged signaling. An understanding of the biochemical composition of rafts and synapses and the mechanisms by which these form should lend insight into the regulation of immune cell activation.
High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of molecular species of sphingolipid-related long chain bases and long chain base phosphates in Saccharomyces cerevisiae after derivatization with 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbamate.	The molecular species of dihydrosphingosines and phytosphingosines and their 1-phosphates with carbon chain lengths from 16 to 20 have been tagged with the fluorescent amino group reagent, 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbamate. All these derivatives could be resolved by reversed phase HPLC on a C18 column. A convenient one-pot method is described whereby lipid extracts from strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae containing carbon chain length homologs of sphingolipid long chain bases and their phosphorylated derivatives were directly reacted with 6-aminoquinolyl-N-hydroxysuccinimidyl carbamate, ester lipids were deacylated, and the reaction mixtures were subjected to liquid chromatography. Five molecular species of both sphingolipid long chain bases and their phosphorylated derivatives are for the first time separated and analyzed. The procedure is quite sensitive, requiring only approximately 10(8) wild-type cells.
Phenylketonuria in Indian children.	Three untreated phenylketonuric Indian children aged respectively 3 1/2 years, 1 1/2 years and 1 year showed rapid neurological deterioration. Plasma, cerebrospinal fluid and urine phenylalanine concentrations were significantly raised and the phenylalanine-tyrosine ratio was high. Analysis of a biopsy of the right frontal lobe of the brain in one case showed the myeline lipids--cerebroside and sulphatide--to be decreased. The total cerebroside in white matter was low. Light microscopy showed marked pallor of the white matter of the brain and extensive spongy degeneration. Ultrastructurally these spongy vesicles are located between the lamellae of the myelin sheath.
Analysis of phospho- and sphingolipids in dairy products by a new HPLC method.	Dairy phospho- and sphingolipids are gaining interest due to their nutritional and technological properties. A new HPLC method, using an evaporative laser light-scattering detector, was developed, which enabled excellent separation of glucosylceramide, lactosylceramide, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylcholine, sphingomyelin, and lysophosphatidylcholine in less than 21 min, including the regeneration of the column. No loss of column performance was observed after 1500 runs because an acid buffer was used. The output signal of the evaporative laser light scattering detector was highly dependent of the flow of the carrier gas and the temperature of the nebulizer, and was maximized by means of a response surface experimental design. Finally, raw milk, cream, butter, buttermilk, Cheddar whey, quarg, and Cheddar cheese were analyzed for their polar lipid content. The absolute values varied substantially (0.018 to 0.181 g/100 g of product). Significant differences were found in the relative content of each polar lipid class among the analyzed products.
Simultaneous quantitative analysis of bioactive sphingolipids by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	There has been a recent explosion in research concerning novel bioactive sphingolipids (SPLs) such as ceramide (Cer), sphingosine (Sph) and sphingosine 1-phosphate (Sph-1P) that necessitates development of accurate and user-friendly methodology for analyzing and quantitating the endogenous levels of these molecules. ESI/MS/MS methodology provides a universal tool used for detecting and monitoring changes in SPL levels and composition from biological materials. Simultaneous ESI/MS/MS analysis of sphingoid bases (SBs), sphingoid base 1-phosphates (SB-1Ps), Cers and sphingomyelins (SMs) is performed on a Thermo Finnigan TSQ 7000 triple quadrupole mass spectrometer operating in a multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) positive ionization mode. Biological materials (cells, tissues or physiological fluids) are fortified with internal standards (ISs), extracted into a one-phase neutral organic solvent system, and analyzed by a Surveyor/TSQ 7000 LC/MS system. Qualitative analysis of SPLs is performed by a Parent Ion scan of a common fragment ion characteristic for a particular class of SPLs. Quantitative analysis is based on calibration curves generated by spiking an artificial matrix with known amounts of target synthetic standards and an equal amount of IS. The calibration curves are constructed by plotting the peak area ratios of analyte to the respective IS against concentration using a linear regression model. This robust analytical procedure can determine the composition of endogenous sphingolipids (ESPLs) in varied biological materials and achieve a detection limit at 1 pmol or lower level. This and related methodology are already defining unexpected specialization and specificity in the metabolism and function of distinct subspecies of individual bioactive SPLs.
Liquid chromatography with dual parallel mass spectrometry and 31P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy for analysis of sphingomyelin and dihydrosphingomyelin. II. Bovine milk sphingolipids.	Liquid chromatography coupled to atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) and electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry (MS), in parallel, was used for simultaneous detection of bovine milk sphingolipids (BMS). APCI-MS mass spectra exhibited mostly ceramide-like fragment ions, [Cer-H(2)O+H](+) and [Cer-2H(2)O+H](+), which were used to identify individual molecular species of BMS according to fatty acyl chain length:degree of unsaturation and long-chain base (LCB). ESI-MS was used to confirm the molecular weights of BMS species. Both sphingomyelin (SM) and dihydrosphingomyelin (DSM) molecular species were identified, with DSM species constituting 20% of BMS. Approximately 56 to 58% of DSM species contained a d16:0 LCB, while 34 to 37% contained a d18:0 LCB. Approximately 26 to 30% of SM species contained a d16:1 LCB, while 57 to 60% contained a d18:1 LCB. BMS species contained both odd and even carbon chain lengths. The most abundant DSM species contained a d16:0 LCB with a 22:0, 23:0 or 24:0 fatty acyl chain, while the most abundant SM species contained a d18:1 LCB with a 16:0 or 23:0 fatty acyl chain. (31)P NMR spectroscopy was used to conclusively confirm that DSM is a dietary component in BMS.
Rapid measurement of sphingolipids from Arabidopsis thaliana by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.	Changes in sphingolipids have been associated with profound effects in cell fate and development in both plants and animals. Sphingolipids as a group consist of a large number of different compound classes of which numerous individual species may vary in response to environmental stimuli to affect cellular responses. The ability to measure all sphingolipids simultaneously is, therefore, essential to an understanding of the biochemical regulation of sphingolipid metabolism and signaling molecules derived from it. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the major sphingolipid classes are glycosylinositolphosphoceramides, glucosylceramides, hydroxyceramides and ceramides. Other minor but potentially important sphingolipids are free long-chain bases and their phosphorylated derivates. By using a single solvent system with reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry detection we have been able to separate and measure 168 sphingolipids from a crude sample. This greatly speeds up and simplifies the analysis of plant sphingolipids and should pave the way for a better understanding of their role in plant performance.
Associative and predictive biomarkers of dementia in HIV-1-infected patients.	Infection with HIV can result in a debilitating CNS disorder known as HIV dementia (HIV-D). Since the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), the incidence of HIV-D has declined, but the prevalence continues to increase. In this new era of HIV-D, traditional biomarkers such as CSF viral load and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 levels are less likely to be associated with dementia in patients on HAART and biomarkers that can predict HIV-D have not yet been identified.
Use of Bodipy-labeled sphingolipid and cholesterol analogs to examine membrane microdomains in cells.	Much evidence has accumulated to show that cellular membranes such as the plasma membrane, contain multiple "microdomains" of differing lipid and protein composition and function. These domains are sometimes enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipids and are believed to be important structures for the regulation of many biological and pathological processes. This review focuses on the use of fluorescent (Bodipy) labeled analogs of sphingolipids and cholesterol to study such domains. We discuss the similarities between the behavior of Bodipy-cholesterol and natural cholesterol in artificial bilayers and in cultured cells, and the use of Bodipy-sphingolipid analogs to visualize membrane domains in living cells based on the concentration-dependent monomer-excimer fluorescence properties of the Bodipy-fluorophore. The use of Bodipy-D-erythro-lactosylceramide is highlighted for detection of domains on the plasma membrane and endosome membranes, and the importance of the sphingolipid stereochemistry in modulating domain formation is discussed. Finally, we suggest that Bodipy-sphingolipids may be useful in future studies to examine the relationship between membrane domains at the cell surface and domains enriched in other lipids and proteins on the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane.
Identification of lipids in the cuticle of the parasitic nematode Anisakis simplex and the somatic tissues of the Atlantic cod Gadus morhua.	The main aim of this work was to assign the cuticular lipids identified in a parasitic nematode and to distinguish those originating from its host. The hypothesis that long-chained fatty acids and sterols are imported by the parasite in the absence of certain enzymes was also tested. The organisms (Anisakis simplex and Gadus morhua) were extracted in petroleum ether and dichloromethane. Matrix-assisted laser desorption time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF) was used to identify unknown components, and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI/MS) to verify recognized groups of lipids. The lipid classes identified in the surface layer were free saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, triacylglycerols, sterols and non-polar sphingolipids (ceramides, sphingoid bases). The most abundant fraction consisted of fatty acids. The predominant saturated acids were tetradecanoic acid in the petroleum ether extract of A. simplex, hexadecanoic acid in the dichloromethane extract of A. simplex, and also the polyunsaturated octadecahexaenoic and octadecatrienoic acids in both extracts of the parasitic nematode. The mass spectrum revealed the presence of fatty acids with different numbers of carbons, and with odd and even numbers of unsaturated bonds. The MALDI-TOF mass spectrum also identified triacylglycerols (TAGs). The dominant short-chain TAGs were CoCoCy:(1), CoCoPg and Bu0:0B:(6). The majority of TAGs were found in the ether and dichloromethane extracts of A. simplex. Sterols were the least common class of lipids found in the nematode extracts; most likely, this is the fraction that is entirely incorporated from the host organism because of the parasite's inability to synthesize them. MALDI-TOF also identified non-polar sphingolipids--ceramides and sphingoid bases. The signals due to N-octanoyl-D-erythro-octasphinganine (m/z 288.3) and N-tetranoyl-D-erythro-tetradecasphinganine (m/z 316.4) were dominant on the mass spectra; quite a large number of short-chain non-polar sphingolipids were also identified.
Mass and relative elution time profiling: two-dimensional analysis of sphingolipids in Alzheimer's disease brains.	Current lipidomic profiling methods rely mainly on MS to identify unknown lipids within a complex sample. We describe a new approach, involving LC×MS/MS (liquid chromatography×tandem MS) analysis of sphingolipids based on both mass and hydrophobicity, and use this method to characterize the SM (sphingomyelin), ceramide and GalCer (galactosylceramide) content of hippocampus from AD (Alzheimer's disease) and control subjects. Using a mathematical relationship we exclude the influence of sphingolipid mass on retention time, and generate two-dimensional plots that facilitate accurate visualization and characterization of the different ceramide moieties within a given sphingolipid class, because related molecules align horizontally or vertically on the plots. Major brain GalCer species that differ in mass by only 0.04 Da were easily differentiated on the basis of their hydrophobicity. The importance of our method's capacity to define all of the major GalCer species in the brain samples is illustrated by the novel observation that the proportion of GalCer with hydroxylated fatty acids increased approximately 2-fold in the hippocampus of AD patients, compared with age- and gender-matched controls. This suggests activation of fatty acid hydroxylase in AD. Our method greatly improves the clarity of data obtained in a lipid profiling experiment and can be expanded to other lipid classes.
Mucilaginibacter herbaticus sp. nov., isolated from the rhizosphere of the medicinal plant Angelica sinensis.	A strictly aerobic, Gram-staining-negative, non-motile and rod-shaped bacterial strain, DR-9(T), was isolated from rhizosphere soil of the medicinal herb Angelica sinensis. Strain DR-9(T) grew at 20-40 °C, at pH 4.0-9.0 and in the presence of 0-1 % (w/v) NaCl. The major fatty acids were iso-C15 : 0 and summed feature 3 (C16 : 1ω7c and/or C16 : 1ω6c and/or iso-C15 : 0 2-OH), MK-7 was the major isoprenoid quinone, and phosphatidylethanolamine and an unidentified aminophospholipid were the major polar lipids. A phylogenetic tree based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain DR-9(T) formed a lineage within the genus Mucilaginibacter and was closely related to Mucilaginibacter polysacchareus DRP28(T) (96.1 % sequence similarity), Mucilaginibacter myungsuensis HMD1056(T) (95.9 % sequence similarity), Mucilaginibacter ximonensis XM-003(T) (95.8 %) and Mucilaginibacter boryungensis BDR-9(T) (95.1 %). The status of strain DR-9(T) as a representative of a separate species was confirmed by DNA hybridization, with 38.6, 36.3 and 29.9 % DNA-DNA relatedness with M. polysacchareus DRP28(T), M. ximonensis XM-003(T) and M. boryungensis BDR-9(T), respectively. The genomic DNA G+C content of strain DR-9(T) was 49.8 %. These data suggest that strain DR-9(T) should be considered as a representative of a novel species of the genus Mucilaginibacter, for which the name Mucilaginibacter herbaticus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is DR-9(T) ( = KACC 16469(T) = NBRC 108839(T)).
Fabry disease: experience of screening dialysis patients for Fabry disease.	The prevalence rate for Fabry disease is conventionally considered to be 1 case in 40,000; however, due to increased screening accuracy, reports now suggest that prevalence is 1 case in 1,500 among male children, and it is likely that the clinical importance of the condition will increase in the future. In dialysis patients to date, prevalence rates are between 0.16 and 1.2 %. Globotriaosylsphingosine (Lyso-GL-3), which is a substrate of α-galactosidase A (α-Gal A), has surfaced as a new biomarker, and is also effective in the determination and monitoring of the effects of enzyme replacement therapy. In terms of genetic abnormalities, the E66Q mutation has recently become a topic of discussion, and although doubts have been expressed over whether or not it is the gene responsible for Fabry disease, there is still a strong possibility that it is a functional genetic polymorphism. At present, the standard treatment for Fabry disease is enzyme replacement therapy, and in order to overcome the problems involved with this, a method of producing recombinant human α-Gal A using methanol-assimilating yeast, and chemical or medicinal chaperone treatment are of current interest. Migalastat hydrochloride is known as a pharmacological chaperone, but is currently in Phase III global clinical trials. Adding saposin B to modified α-N-acetyl galactosaminidase is also under consideration as a treatment method.
Analysis of glycerophospho- and sphingolipids by CE.	Glycerophospholipids are amphiphilic molecules possessing polar head groups with a glycerol backbone and nonpolar variable long-chain fatty acids. Numerous molecular species are found in a single class of glycerophospholipid, conferring to these lipids a high structural diversity. They are major components of biological membranes and participate in important activities involving cell signaling and substrate transport. Sphingolipids consist of long-chain bases linked by an amide bond to a fatty acid and via the terminal hydroxyl group to complex carbohydrate or phosphorus moieties, constituting a complex family of compounds that also present an enormous structural variability. As important component of neuronal membranes, sphingolipids contribute to cellular diversity and functions and are associated with several neurodegenerative disorders. Moreover, they were studied in several foods due to their sensorial, reological, and antioxidant characteristics. In this work, the most relevant information available on glycerophospholipid and sphingolipid analysis by CE is reviewed. CE is a very promising analytical technique in polar lipid analysis, which provides high efficiency, relatively high resolution, and enormous versatility and requires small amounts of sample and solvent. MEKC and NACE methodologies have been developed as the most useful alternatives for these analyses by CE. Very interesting LODs have been achieved enabling the application of CE to the determination of glycerophospholipids and sphingolipids in several food and biological matrices. 
Diacyl, alkenyl, and alkyl ether phospholipids in ejaculated, in utero-, and in vitro-incubated porcine spermatozoa.	The phospholipids of porcine spermatozoa were analyzed by a hydrolytic procedure directly after ejaculation, and after incubation for 120 min in vitro or in ligated uterine segments of females with induced estrus. Total phospholipid content of ejaculated sperm was 65.7 micro g lipid P per 10(9) sperm, of which 41% was alkyl ether and 23% was alkenyl ether glycerophospholipid. All of the ether phospholipids were choline and ethanolamine glycerophospholipids. In order of decreasing amount (% of total phospholipid), the phospholipids were choline and ethanolamine glycerophospholipids (49.9 and 28.2), sphingolipid (10.6), cardiolipin (5.5), phosphatidylinositol (2.3), phosphatidic acid (1.5), phosphatidylserine (1.2), and phosphatidylglycerol (0.8). Phosphorus-containing sphingolipid separated into two components during thin-layer chromatography. Sphingosine was the only long-chain base identified in either band. Major fatty acids in the band with lower R(f) were 16:0 (56%), 20:0 (23%), and 18:0 (11%) plus smaller amounts of 14:0, 18:1, and 22:0, while those in the band with higher R(f) were 14:0 (30%), 16:0 (45%), and 18:1 (12%) plus smaller amounts of 18:0, 20:0, and 22:0. Choline was the only water-soluble base present in the lower R(f) sphingomyelin while ethanolamine was prevalent in the higher R(f) component. Incubation of washed spermatozoa in Ca(2+)-free Ringer-fructose at 37 degrees C for 2 hr produced no significant change in the level of any of the phospholipids. Incubation of washed sperm in the uterus for 2 hr, in the presence of oviductal secretions, produced an increase in phosphatidylcholine from 7.2 to 10.2 micro g lipid P per 10(9) sperm.-Evans, R. W., D. E. Weaver, and E. D. Clegg. Diacyl, alkenyl, and alkyl ether phospholipids in ejaculated, in utero-, and in vitro-incubated porcine spermatozoa.
Lipids of myelin, white matter and gray matter in a case of generalized deficiency of cytochrome b5 reductase in congenital methemoglobinemia with mental retardation.	The lipid classes and fatty acid compositions of myelin, white matter and gray matter were analyzed in a case of generalized deficiency of cytochrome b5 reductase in congenital methemoglobinemia with mental retardation. When compared with normal data, the percentage of 24:1 was considerably decreased and diminished unsaturation was observed in cerebrosides, whereas the sum of 24:0 and 24:1 was the same as in normals. The ratio of hydroxy fatty acids to total fatty acids in cerebrosides was low. The contents of cholesterol and phospholipids in white matter were reduced to 80% of the normal, whereas cerebroside was reduced to 48% of the normal.
WIF-B cells: an in vitro model for studies of hepatocyte polarity.	We have evaluated the utility of the hepatoma-derived hybrid cell line, WIF-B, for in vitro studies of polarized hepatocyte functions. The majority (> 70%) of cells in confluent culture formed closed spaces with adjacent cells. These bile canalicular-like spaces (BC) accumulated fluorescein, a property of bile canaliculi in vivo. By indirect immunofluorescence, six plasma membrane (PM) proteins showed polarized distributions similar to rat hepatocytes in situ. Four apical PM proteins were concentrated in the BC membrane of WIF-B cells. Microtubules radiated from the BC (apical) membrane, and actin and foci of gamma-tubulin were concentrated in this region. The tight junction-associated protein ZO-1 was present in belts marking the boundary between apical and basolateral PM domains. We explored the functional properties of this boundary in living cells using fluorescent membrane lipid analogs and soluble tracers. When cells were incubated at 4 degrees C with a fluorescent analog of sphingomyelin, only the basolateral PM was labeled. In contrast, when both PM domains were labeled by de novo synthesis of fluorescent sphingomyelin from ceramide, fluorescent lipid could only be removed from the basolateral domain. These data demonstrate the presence of a barrier to the lateral diffusion of lipids between the PM domains. However, small soluble FITC-dextrans (4,400 mol wt) were able to diffuse into BC, while larger FITC-dextrans were restricted to various degrees depending on their size and incubation temperature. At 4 degrees C, the surface labeling reagent sNHS-LC-biotin (557 mol wt) had access to the entire PM, but streptavidin (60,000 mol wt), which binds to biotinylated molecules, was restricted to only the basolateral domain. Such differential accessibility of well-characterized probes can be used to mark each membrane domain separately. These results show that WIF-B cells are a suitable model to study membrane trafficking and targeting in hepatocytes in vitro.
Consequences of beta-glucocerebrosidase deficiency in epidermis. Ultrastructure and permeability barrier alterations in Gaucher disease.	Hydrolysis of glucosylceramide by beta-glucocerebrosidase results in ceramide, a critical component of the intercellular lamellae that mediate the epidermal permeability barrier. A subset of type 2 Gaucher patients displays ichthyosiform skin abnormalities, as do transgenic Gaucher mice homozygous for a null allele. To investigate the relationship between glucocerebrosidase deficiency and epidermal permeability barrier function, we compared the stratum corneum (SC) ultrastructure, lipid content, and barrier function of Gaucher mice to carrier and normal mice, and to hairless mice treated topically with bromoconduritol B epoxide (BrCBE), an irreversible inhibitor of glucocerebrosidase. Both Gaucher mice and BrCBE-treated mice revealed abnormal, incompletely processed, lamellar body-derived sheets throughout the SC interstices, while transgenic carrier mice displayed normal bilayers. The SC of a severely affected type 2 Gaucher's disease infant revealed similarly abnormal ultrastructure. Furthermore, the Gaucher mice demonstrated markedly elevated transepidermal water loss (4.2 +/- 0.6 vs < 0.10 g/m2 per h). The electron-dense tracer, colloidal lanthanum, percolated between the incompletely processed lamellar body-derived sheets in the SC interstices of Gaucher mice only, demonstrating altered permeability barrier function. Gaucher and BrCBE-treated mice showed < 1% and < 5% of normal epidermal glucocerebrosidase activity, respectively, and the epidermis/SC of Gaucher mice demonstrated elevated glucosylceramide (5- to 10-fold), with diminished ceramide content. Thus, the skin changes observed in Gaucher mice and infants may result from the formation of incompetent intercellular lamellar bilayers due to a decreased hydrolysis of glucosylceramide to ceramide. Glucocerebrosidase therefore appears necessary for the generation of membranes of sufficient functional competence for epidermal barrier function.
