Laparoscopic common bile duct exploration.	Since the introduction of laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the management of common bile duct (CBD) stones has undergone significant change. Preoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with sphincterotomy is now routinely done in cases where the diagnosis of choledocholithiasis is suspected preoperatively, with clearance of the bile ducts before laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Intraoperative discovery of CBD stones by cholangiography represents a challenge to the surgeon, who must make a decision about when to perform laparoscopic CBD exploration, convert to open surgery, or send the patient for ERCP during the postoperative period. Because ERCP has a definite failure rate, laparoscopic CBD exploration can be a treatment option. Among 2500 laparoscopic cholecystectomies done by our group from January 1991 to June 1997, 50 patients (2%) underwent laparoscopic CBD exploration, 13 by the transcystic technique and 37 by choledocotomy, with a conversion rate of 8% and a hospital stay of 4.3 days. One patient died from complicated pancreatitis following ERCP and unsuccessful extraction of a CBD stone. We obtained our goal of a CBD free of stones in 92% of the cases. We conclude that laparoscopic CBD exploration is an effective method for treating choledocolithiasis that allows management of this pathology in one stage, although it requires advanced laparoscopic skills and adequate equipment.
Portal biliopathy.	In patients with portal hypertension, particularly with extrahepatic portal vein obstruction, portal biliopathy producing biliary ductal and gallbladder wall abnormalities are common. Portal cavernoma formation, choledochal varices and ischemic injury of the bile duct have been implicated as causes of these morphological alterations. While a majority of the patients are asymptomatic, some present with a raised alkaline phosphatase level, abdominal pain, fever and cholangitis. Choledocholithiasis may develop as a complication and manifest as obstructive jaundice with or without cholangitis. Endoscopic sphincterotomy and stone extraction can effectively treat cholangitis when jaundice is associated with common bile duct stone(s). Definitive decompressive shunt surgery is sometimes required when biliary obstruction is recurrent and progressive.
Wall stent-enhanced lateral pancreaticojejunostomy for small-duct pancreatitis.	The purpose of this study was to see if a small (<7 mm) pancreatic duct could be dilated to an acceptable diameter, allowing lateral pancreaticojejunostomy to decompress the pancreatic duct and relieve pain, while preserving pancreatic endocrine and exocrine function.
Splenic rupture after ERCP]	We report on a 52 year old woman, who developed splenic rupture after endoscopic sphincterotomy for multiple biliary stones. After hemorrhagic shock had developed, the diagnosis was established by computed tomography and ultrasound guided paracentesis. The patient was treated by emergency splenectomy. The case report stresses the necessity to be aware of splenic rupture as a rare complication after ERCP. A review of the current literature regarding splenic rupture is provided and mechanisms of splenic trauma and risk factors are discussed.
Intrabiliary rupture of hepatic echinococcosis cysts: presentation of a clinical case and review of the literature]	Intrabiliary rupture of hydatid cyst of liver is a complication of hydatid disease. The authors report the case of a patient surgically treated by total pericistectomy and suture communication with biliary system, the best treatment for this condition.
Long-term prognosis after treatment of patients with choledocholithiasis.	This study was conducted to examine the long-term prognosis of after treatment of patients with choledocholithiasis, including the recurrence of lithiasis, and to thereby determine the best treatment modality for choledocholithiasis based on its pathological entity.
Management of acute cholangitis.	Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is the treatment of choice for patients with (severe) acute cholangitis. For fit patients without co-morbidity with mild cholangitis and CBD stones with a gallbladder in situ, the one-stage laparoscopic approach could be considered as an alternative in centers with sufficient experience. The results of both procedures are comparable. Open surgery is relatively safe. It has a high success rate, good/excellent long-term results, but is not very attractive for the patient and should not be used routinely nowadays. Therefore, the indication should be limited for management of severe complications after ES as perforations of the duodenum, large CBD stones and patients with Mirizzi's syndrome or intrahepatic stones with stenosis of the bile duct. ES as primary treatment for CBD stones should be followed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy in 'fit' patients. In patients with malignant disease, particularly after repeated stent failure and subsequent cholangitis, bypass surgery should be considered in patients with a life expectancy of >3 months.
Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction and other functional biliary disorders: evaluation and treatment.	Functional biliary disorders encompass the conditions of SOD and gallbladder dysmotility, both of which result in clinical pain syndromes. Obtaining objective diagnostic and outcomes data for both disorders has been an ongoing challenge over the last two decades. SOD, although initially believed to be strictly a biliary disorder, has now been implicated in recurrent pancreatitis. The biliary-type classification allows a clinician to stratify patients who would benefit from SOM and endoscopic sphincterotomy. Further study into the impact of endoscopic therapy for recurrent pancreatitis is needed. By the same token, the dilemma of postcholecystectomy abdominal pain, whether classified as biliary or pancreatic type III, remains challenging. The current limitations of knowledge highlight the need for prospective randomized studies to evaluate the clinical significance of SOM abnormalities to facilitate treatment of these patients.
Clinical meaning of GGT activity in follow-up of patients with alcohol-related liver injury and cholestasis.	The dynamics of GGT was investigated in three groups of patients after removing some primary causes of GGT increase. Group A included 34 patients with alcohol-related liver disease, group B included 16 patients with alcoholic liver injury and cholestasis, caused by concomitant alcoholic pancreatitis and group C included 17 patients with extrahepatic cholestasis, caused by choledocholithiasis. Follow-up assays of GGT were performed on the 7th, 14th and 30th days. Our results showed that the dynamics of GGT was more rapid after removing the cause for cholestasis than in stopping alcohol consumption in patients with chronic liver diseases. On the 14th day more than a 50% decrease in GGT activity was noted in 20% of the patients from groups A and B and in almost all cases from group C. On the 30th day, the reference range of GGT was not attained by any of the patients with liver disease nor in five patients from group C. No significant correlation was found between the severity of liver damage and the extent of GGT increase at the beginning and at the end of the follow-up period.
Metabolic changes in a patient in the early phase of acute pancreatitis]	The present paper reports on the perioperative metabolic changes in a 70-year-old female patient in whom an acute (oedematous) pancreatitis occurred during the transduodenal excision of a villous adenoma of the duodenal papilla. Since blood was taken for metabolic investigations before, during and after surgery, data on the changes in the intermediary metabolism during the early phase of acute pancreatitis in humans was recorded. Raised activity of the pancreatic enzymes amylase and lipase was demonstrable just minutes after extirpation of the papillary tumour after intraoperative cholangiography had been performed via a choledochotomy. This showed occlusion of the duodenal papilla as well as imaging the pancreatic duct. The reflux of bile into the pancreatic duct is considered to be one of the causative factors of acute pancreatitis (Opie-syndrome). The following metabolic changes were registered at surgery and on the first day thereafter: reduction in the serum concentration of cholesterol ester, the triglycerides and the phospholipids by 30 to 50% of the preoperative values respectively, as well as lactacidaemia (up to 60 mg/dl). At the same time, the serum bilirubin concentration and the concentrations of the amino acids alanine and glutamate in the serum were temporarily raised. The question is, whether these metabolic changes were a direct consequence of the activity of the pancreatic enzymes of amino acid and lipid metabolism that were released into the blood, or whether reduced synthesis by the liver (lipoproteins, lecithin: cholesterol-acyl-transferase) was responsible for these changes.
Endoscopic papillotomy in biliary tract pain and fluctuating cholestasis with common bile duct dilatation and small gallbladder stones.	In patients suspected of having functional disorders of the papilla it is often difficult to establish the indications whether or not to perform endoscopic papillotomy (EP). We report on thirty-two consecutive patients referred for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography who all had longstanding biliary tract pain and episodes of liver enzyme elevation indicating cholestasis. Further features were: 1) a dilated common bile duct (CBD) after cholecystectomy (n = 11) or 2) a dilated CBD without or with larger (greater than cystic duct diameter) gallbladder stones (n = 6) or 3) multiple small gallbladder stones, with a normal or dilated CBD, in patients with signs of acute gallstone pancreatitis or in whom elective cholecystectomy was not indicated (n = 15). No CBD stones, organic obstruction or other disorders were found in these patients. Without further diagnostic procedures, EP was routinely performed. The laboratory (up to 3 months) and clinical findings (2 to 4 years follow up) showed improvement in all patients undergoing EP. We conclude that immediate EP appears justified in these selected patients.
Endoscopic treatment of liver tumors]	In cases of patients of high operation risk the endoscopic stent implantation has the smallest morbidity and mortality as well as it ensures acceptable life quality in non-resec table neoplastic stenosis of liver portal region. In better life expectancy the more expensive metallic stents can be recommended because they are committed with less complications.
Influence of endoscopic papillary balloon dilation and endoscopic sphincterotomy on sphincter of oddi function: a randomized controlled trial.	Endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD) is assumed to have a theoretical advantage over endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST) in preserving sphincter of Oddi function because it does not involve cutting the biliary sphincter. Although attempts have been made to study the influence of EPBD and EST on sphincter of Oddi function, there is little agreement on this issue. In this study we used a method different from those described in previous reports to clarify whether EPBD or EST preserves sphincter of Oddi function better.
Symptomatic biliary stones at the lower end of the common duct following hepaticoduodenostomy]	A 66-year-old patient developed episodes of severe pain due to recurrent cholangitis and pancreatitis. 2 years prior to this referral the patient had undergone an end-to-side hepaticoduodenostomy and a cholecystectomy because of choledocholithiasis and obstructive jaundice. 20 years previously a Billroth II operation had been carried out for the treatment of ulcer disease. Since the hepaticoduodenostomy the patient has suffered from recurrent epigastric pain, nausea and postprandial vomiting. An oedematous pancreatitis following a recurrent chronic cholangitis was assumed. As the intrahepatic biliary ducts appeared to be normal on radiological studies and hepatobiliary scintigraphy showed a downright transit of the tracer, recurrent cholangitis appeared at first to be a rather unlikely explanation. However, follow-up MRI and MRCP showed large calculi at the lower end of the common duct, which was also enlarged up to 1 cm. For this reason an open duodenotomy with subsequent papillosphincterotomy and retrograde choledochoscopy was carried out. The diagnosis was confirmed hereby and all calculi were removed during the operation. Since then the patient has been free of symptoms and complaints. This case shows that remaining calculi at the lower end of the common bile duct can cause severe clinical problems. Therefore the bile ducts should be inspected endoscopically and stones removed prior to, or during the primary operation.
Recurrence of acute gallstone pancreatitis and relationship with cholecystectomy or endoscopic sphincterotomy.	To determine the prevalence of recurrence of gallstone pancreatitis, its clinical features, and the presence of prognostic factors of recurrence.
Selective endoscopic cholangiography for the detection of common bile duct stones in patients with cholelithiasis.	The detection and management of common bile duct (CBD) stones in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy continues to be controversial. Several diagnostic and therapeutic strategies have been suggested. These include intraoperative cholangiography, selective endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography, and endoscopic ultrasonography. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of selective ERCP in detecting CBD stones in patients with cholelithiasis before laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Therapeutic pancreatic endoscopy.	Over the past decade, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) has developed from being a diagnostic tool to become one that is primarily used to provide therapy. This development occurred first for biliary disorders and more recently for primary diseases of the pancreas. Not only can new-generation computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography procedures suggest a diagnosis in the majority of individuals with pancreatic diseases today; in addition, ERCP-related complications can be minimized or avoided altogether in conjunction with positron-emission tomography or directed cytology or biopsy, either using ultrasound or CT guidance, or with tissue obtained during endoscopic ultrasonography. It is against this background that papers on therapeutic pancreatic endoscopy published during approximately the last year are reviewed here. Despite these developments, however, the following three issues concerning current advances in pancreatic endotherapy should be emphasized: firstly, most of the techniques reviewed here affect only a small number of patients; secondly, most of the techniques have been reported only by expert centers; and thirdly, most of the studies concerned have lacked control groups, and there is still a paucity of studies investigating endoscopic techniques on a randomized basis in comparison with surgery or medical therapy for the treatment of most benign and malignant pancreatic disorders.
Endoscopic biliary drainage for severe acute cholangitis.	Emergency surgery for patients with severe acute cholangitis due to choledocholithiasis is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Because recent results suggested that emergency endoscopic drainage could improve the outcome of such patients, we undertook a prospective study to determine the role of this procedure as initial treatment.
Evaluation of endoscopic sphincterotomy in sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.	In this prospective study the efficacy of endoscopic sphincterotomy was evaluated in ten post-cholecystectomy patients with clinical and biliary manometric evidence of SO dysfunction. Ten patients (8 females, 2 males, median age 59 years) were assessed at a median period of 24 months (range 12-48) after endoscopic sphincterotomy. Eight of the ten patients (80%) were symptomatically improved after endoscopic sphincterotomy although only four were totally asymptomatic. The two patients who had unchanged symptoms after sphincterotomy have since had alternative diagnoses made and have improved on appropriate therapy. It is concluded that endoscopic sphincterotomy is effective in relieving symptoms in post-cholecystectomy patients with clinical and manometric evidence of SO dysfunction.
A rare complication of the hepatic hydatid cyst: intraperitoneal perforation without anaphylaxis.	The hepatic hydatid cyst can lead to serious complications as a perforation into the biliary system or into the respiratory tract. The perforation into the peritoneal cavity can become dramatic, characterized by acute abdomen, usually with anaphylaxis. We recently treated a patient with a liver hydatid cyst perforated into the abdominal cavity. Computed tomography was a useful diagnostic tool, and the patient underwent emergency surgery. At laparotomy, 8 liters of hydatid liquid with floating daughter cysts and purulent material was found. The peritoneal cavity was washed with hypertonic solution, the hepatic cyst with daughter cysts. was removed, and a subtotal pericystectomy was performed. The critical clinical picture did not allow a cholecystectomy or a probe of the common hepatic duct to verify a biliary leakage. A biliary fistula appeared after 4 days and was successfully treated by endoscopic sphincterotomy. No anaphylactic phenomena were seen, probably because the great quantity of purulent material caused inactivity of the allergic component.
Endoscopic approach to pancreatic duct calculi and obstructive pancreatitis.	Twelve patients with chronic pancreatitis and obstructing pancreatic calculi underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and attempted pancreatic stone extraction. This procedure, utilizing conventional stone baskets and balloons, as well as extracorporeal or laser lithotripsy in a subset, was ultimately successful in 11 of 12 patients. Nine of the 10 patients with relapsing pancreatitis have not had a symptomatic flare at a mean follow-up of 17 months. In contrast, neither of the patients who presented with chronic pain had convincing symptomatic improvement. The authors conclude that endoscopic removal of pancreatic duct calculi deserves further investigation in the treatment of relapsing attacks of chronic pancreatitis.
Papillotomy in acute pancreatitis: more benefits than risks]	The pathogenesis of acute pancreatitis is still unclear. OPIE's theory that obstruction of the Ampulla of Vater can be an important etiological factor in acute pancreatitis is still relevant for the ongoing discussion whether endoscopic papillotomy can improve acute pancreatitis. Patients with severe acute pancreatitis have to undergo an early ERCP for the detection of the biliary origin of the disease. In case of the detection of choledocholithiasis endoscopic papillotomy should be performed. The rate of complications and the duration of hospitalization can be significantly reduced in contrast to conservative treatment. Controlled clinical studies are necessary to answer the question if endoscopic papillotomy should be carried out in all patients with severe acute pancreatitis.
A patient with abdominal pain and markedly elevated transaminase levels after cholecystectomy.	A 33-year-old white female with a history of cholecystectomy presented to the emergency department with intermittent severe abdominal pain radiating from the left upper quadrant to the right upper quadrant, associated with nausea and emesis. Three weeks previously the patient had presented to the emergency department with similar pain in the abdomen. Laboratory investigations had revealed elevated bilirubin, transaminase, and alkaline phosphatase levels. At that time, pain and liver chemistry test results improved and the patient was discharged on hospital day 3. She denied a history of alcohol use, new medications, or the ingestion of other toxins.
Routine laparoscopic cholecystectomy after endoscopic sphincterotomy for choledocholithiasis in octogenarians: is it worth the risk?	No unanimous consensus has been reached as to the need for routine laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) after endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) for choledocholithiasis in very elderly patients, who are considered as high-risk subjects for surgery.
Early endoscopic intervention versus early conservative management in patients with acute gallstone pancreatitis and biliopancreatic obstruction: a randomized clinical trial.	To test the hypothesis that early endoscopic intervention, performed on patients with acute gallstone pancreatitis and biliopancreatic obstruction, reduces systemic and local inflammation.
The clinical significance of bile duct sludge: is it different from bile duct stones?	Some patients with suspected common bile duct (CBD) stones are found to have sludge and no stones. Although sludge in the gallbladder is a precursor of gallbladder stones, the significance of bile duct sludge (BDS) is poorly defined. This study aimed to compare BDS with bile duct stones in terms of frequency, associated risk factors, and clinical outcome after endoscopic therapy.
Metal clip as a nidus for formation of common bile duct stone following laparascopic cholecystectomy.	A 83-year-old woman came to our hospital with fever up to 38.5 degrees C, abdominal pain and jaundice. She had undergone a cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones in 1992. The endoscopic retrograde cholangiography showed a dilated common bile duct with a free floating surgical clip with stone formation around this foreign body. After endoscopic sphincterotomy the extraction of the foreign body was successful. We found a two cm cholesterol stone the nidus of which was built by a Filshie-clip. The post endoscopic course was uneventful.
Endoscopic management of biliary hydatid disease: report on six cases.	Six patients with a ruptured Echinococcus liver cyst were treated by means of endoscopy. The treatment consisted of endoscopic sphincterotomy, cyst material extraction and hypotonic saline lavage via a nasobiliary catheter. In five patients successful complete endoscopic treatment was achieved, including removal of daughter cysts. In the sixth patient only partial treatment could be performed with clearance of daughter cysts since there was no communication with the main liver cyst. Follow-up ultrasonography, CT and ERCP in all patients showed complete cure and no evidence of disease recurrence in five of them. The sixth patient required surgery one month after endoscopic treatment of the acute biliary obstruction.
Endoscopic sphincterotomy in the management of postoperative complications of hepatic hydatid disease.	The results obtained using endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST) in the management of postoperative biliary complications of hepatic hydatid disease are presented. The outcome was favourable in all eight patients treated with no associated morbidity or mortality. In three patients the clinical manifestations of cholangitis resolved, and in five of six patients the external bile fistula previously present for 26 to 68 days closed within 3 to 15 days. In one patient with a long-standing fistula (5 years) the bile outflow was reduced from 600cc to 50-100cc per day. No complications due to EST were encountered. The results show that EST can be considered the treatment of choice for biliary fistulae following surgery for hepatic hydatid disease and for drainage of bile in patients with cholangitis due to hydatid disease.
Endoscopic management of a relapsing hepatic hydatid cyst with intrabiliary rupture: a case report and review of the literature.	Hydatid disease, although endemic mostly in sheep-farming countries, remains a public health issue worldwide, involving mainly the liver. Intrabiliary rupture is the most frequent complication of the hepatic hydatid cyst. Endoscopy is advocated, preoperatively, to alleviate obstructive jaundice caused by intracystic materials after a frank rupture and is also a useful and well-established adjunct in locating postoperative biliary fistulas. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography with sphincterotomy has been successful as the sole and definitive means of treatment of intrabiliary ruptured hydatid cysts. A case of an elderly woman with frank rupture is presented, where the rupture was definitively managed endoscopically in conjunction with sphincterotomy to remove the intrabiliary obstructive daughter cysts and to achieve decontamination of the biliary tree. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography provided an excellent diagnostic and therapeutic modality in the present case and, thus, it should be considered as definitive treatment in similar cases especially if surgical risk is anticipated to be high.
Characteristics of laparoscopic interventions in the patients with calculous cholecystitis complicated with hepatic cirrhosis]	Operative interventions in the patients suffering calculous cholecystitis on the hepatic cirrhosis background are accompanied by multiple complications. During ten year period laparoscopic cholecystectomy was conducted in the clinics in 138 patients suffering hepatic cirrhosis. In 12 patients, admitted to the hospital for obturation jaundice, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography and endoscopic papillotomy were primarily done. In 3-7 days after successful removal of calculi from the ducts the laparoscopic cholecystectomy was performed. In 39 (28.3%) of patients complications had occurred, the most frequent of which was intraabdominal hemorrhage, as well as gastrointestinal bleeding from the varicosely changed esophageal veins in the early postoperative period--in 15 (10.8%). Two patients died as a consequence of postoperative hemorrhage occurring from varicosely changed esophageal veins, developed on the hepatocellular insufficiency background.
Laboratory diagnosis and nonoperative management of biliary complications in living donor liver transplant patients.	Biliary complications associated with living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) remain a major problem. Information regarding biochemical abnormalities helpful for the diagnosis and the nonoperative management of such complications are limited.
Prevalence of periampullary diverticular, its association with choledocolithiasis and technical sucess with ERCP]	Periampullary diverticula (DP) are thought to be associated with bile duct stones; they may influence the index of success or failure at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (CPE) and may increase the risk of its complications.
Management and outcome of severe acute pancreatitis.	The treatment of severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) varies among several institutes. It has been evolving from routine surgical management to conservative management in the early stages. The surgical management has a role in the later stages of the disease.
Biliary tract complications after liver transplantation: a review.	Biliary complications continue to be a major cause of morbidity in liver transplant recipients with an incidence of 10-30% following whole-organ transplantation and a mortality rate of up to 10%. Biliary leaks and strictures are most common but sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, hemobilia, and biliary obstruction are also observed. Biliary complications may be related to various factors such as hepatic artery patency, preservation injury, cytomegalovirus infection, chronic ductopenic rejection, ABO incompatibility, and technical reasons. The latter include imperfect anastomosis, T-tube-related complications and the use of partial liver grafts when cut surface biliary leaks or inadvertent bile duct injuries may occur during parenchymal division. The usage of a T-tube for duct-to-duct anastomosis in whole-organ liver transplantation remains controversial, mainly because of the high rates of T-tube-related complications observed in many series. In this article we review the etiology, as well as the main types of biliary complications according to the technique of biliary reconstruction and liver transplant procedure performed. Their management is also discussed with interventional radiology and endoscopic techniques emerging as the preferred treatment option, obviating the need for surgery in a selected majority of patients.
Permanent stenting in "unextractable" common bile duct stones in high risk patients. A prospective randomized study comparing two different stents.	Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) and stone extraction is the treatment of choice for bile duct stones. Therefore, if ES and conventional stone extraction fail, further treatment is mandatory. Insertion of a biliary endoprosthesis is an effective option.
Endoscopic ultrasound-guided choledochoduodenostomy in patients with failed endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography.	Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)-guided biliary drainage was performed for treatment of patients who have obstructive jaundice in cases of failed endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). In the present study, we introduced the feasibility and outcome of EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy in four patients who failed in ERCP. We performed the procedure in 2 papilla of Vater, including one resectable case, and 2 cases of cancer of the head of pancreas. Using a curved linear array echoendoscope, a 19 G needle or a needle knife was punctured transduodenally into the bile duct under EUS visualization. Using a biliary catheter for dilation, or papillary balloon dilator, a 7-Fr plastic stent was inserted through the choledochoduodenostomy site into the extrahepatic bile duct. In 3 (75%) of 4 cases, an indwelling plastic stent was placed, and in one case in which the stent could not be advanced into the bile duct, a naso-biliary drainage tube was placed instead. In all cases, the obstructive jaundice rapidly improved after the procedure. Focal peritonitis and bleeding not requiring blood transfusion was seen in one case. In this case, pancreatoduodenectomy was performed and the surgical findings revealed severe adhesion around the choledochoduodenostomy site. Although further studies and development of devices are mandatory, EUS-guided choledochoduodenostomy appears to be an effective alternative to ERCP in selected cases.
Are the echogenicities on intraductal ultrasonography really biliary microlithiasis?	Intraductal ultrasonography (IDUS) is a useful procedure for diagnosing microlithiasis in the bile duct but it is not easy to differentiate between tiny echogenicity and real microlithiasis. We compared the echogenicity seen on IDUS and the findings of bile microscopy (BM) of bile that was collected in the common bile duct (CBD) to determine whether the echogenicity seen on IDUS is real microlithiasis.
Bile leak from the duct of Luschka.	A 64-year-old diabetic man underwent an open cholecystectomy for acute necrotizing cholecystitis. Post-operatively he developed a biloma which was drained percutaneously. A bile leak was suspected and he underwent an ERCP. Initial cholangiography was normal, but upon continued injection of contrast agent, a bile leak originating from a branch of the right hepatic duct or duct of Luschka became evident. A sphincterotomy was performed and a plastic stent was placed into the common bile duct. The leak resolved and the plastic stent was removed 6 weeks later.
Management of late biliary complications in patients with gallbladder stones in situ after endoscopic papillary balloon dilation.	Patients with untreated gallbladder stones in situ are at high risk for late biliary complications after endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD) and bile duct stone extraction. Few data exist on the short-term and long-term results in these patients after the recurrence of bile duct stones and acute cholecystitis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of late biliary complications in patients with gallbladder stones in situ after EPBD.
Management of patients with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction based on a new classification.	To propose a new classification system for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (SOD) based on clinical data of patients.
Laparoscopic exploration of the common bile duct to relieve choledocholithiasis in children.	The optimal method of managing paediatric choledocholithiasis is controversial. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and sphincterotomy are effective in adults; however, the long-term outcome in the paediatric population is unknown. We report our experience with laparoscopic common bile duct (CBD) exploration to relieve choledocholithiasis in children and propose a management algorithm.
Proximally migrated pancreatic stent successfully removed using needle-knife and forceps: complication after precut papillotomy assisted by pancreatic stenting.	Pancreatic stent-assisted ampullary precut papillotomy is a rescue method for cases with difficult bile duct cannulation during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). We describe a case in which post-ERCP pancreatitis (PEP) developed due to the proximal migration of pancreatic stent, after precut papillotomy. Removal of the migrated pancreatic stent was achieved after needle-knife incision of the pancreatic duct's orifice followed by retrieval of the stent using rat-tooth forceps, which resulted in rapid resolution of the PEP. Caution is needed when pancreatic stent is placed after papillary incision. Needle-knife incision of the pancreatic duct orifice followed by forceps removal is an effective technique for rescuing pancreatic stent migration.
Frequency of common factors for post endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography pancreatitis.	To determine the frequency of factors leading to post endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) pancreatitis.
Effect of the time of day on the success and adverse events of ERCP.	Physician fatigue and decreased concentration have been proposed as causes of lower completion and adenoma detection rates in afternoon colonoscopies compared with morning colonoscopies. ERCP is a technically demanding and highly operator-dependent procedure, and its success may similarly be affected in the afternoon compared with the morning.
What is the value of ERCP in the era of MRCP?]	The diagnostic approach in patients suspicious for gallstone disease is represented by two main methods--ERCP and MRCP. The magnetic resonance cholangio-pancreatography is safe and precise method of imaging diagnostics, while the endoscopy combines both good diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities.
Efficacy and safety of self-expandable metal stents for biliary decompression in patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy for pancreatic cancer: a prospective study.	Increasing numbers of patients with resectable pancreatic cancer are receiving neoadjuvant therapy. Biliary drainage with plastic stents during this period can be associated with recurrent episodes of stent occlusion resulting in unplanned ERCPs and interruptions in therapy.
Endoscopic management of hepatic hydatid cyst with biliary communication.	A serious complication of hepatic hydatid cyst disease is communication between the cyst and the biliary tree. Surgical management of biliary fistulas is associated with high morbidity and mortality. We carried out a prospective study of endoscopic management of hydatid cysts communicating with bile ducts in 28 patients.
One-stage versus two-stage management for concomitant gallbladder stones and common bile duct stones in patients with obstructive jaundice.	No consensus exists regarding the optimal management of concomitant gallbladder stones and common bile duct stones (CBDS). Previous studies showed a significant association between the presence of obstructive jaundice and increased risk of postoperative complications and conversion to open surgery. This retrospective study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of one-stage (laparoscopic cholecystectomy [LC] plus laparoscopic common bile duct exploration) management versus two-stage (preoperative endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography/endoscopic sphincterotomy + LC) management for patients with obstructive jaundice, concomitant gallbladder stones, and CBDS. One-stage management (n = 88) or two-stage management (n = 122) was used for 210 eligible patients between January 2009 and March 2011. Both types of management proved to be effective and safe. No significant difference was observed in terms of stone clearance from the common bile duct (CBD), postoperative morbidity, mortality, or conversion to open surgery. However, one-stage management was more cost-effective and decreased the number of procedures. In addition, postoperative hospital stay and operative time were shorter for patients who received one-stage management. Especially for patients with CBD greater than 1 cm in diameter, one-stage management is a better choice. 
Wait-and-see policy versus cholecystectomy after endoscopic sphincterotomy for bile-duct stones in high-risk patients with co-existing gallbladder stones: a prospective randomised trial.	Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is one of the most important advances in the treatment of common bile duct (CBD) stones. However, the use of ES to remove CBD stones in high-risk patients without cholecystectomy is still debatable. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of a wait-and-see policy versus cholecystectomy after ES for CBD stones in high-risk patients with co-existing cholelithiasis.
Pancreatic panniculitis: a rare complication of pancreatitis secondary to ERCP.	Panniculitis is an uncommon and rare complication of systemic fat necrosis in patients with pancreatic diseases. The skin manifestations are independent of the severity of the pancreatic pathology and can occur at any time. The lesions can precede, be concomitant with or rarely follow the pancreatic illness. We report a case of acute pancreatitis post Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio Pancreatography (ERCP) for common bile duct stone, with subcutaneous panniculitis. We noted a complete resolution within two weeks after the treatment of the pancreatic pathology.
Traumatic bile leaks from blunt liver injury in children: a multidisciplinary and minimally invasive approach to management.	Selective non-operative management (NOM) of hemodynamically stable pediatric patients with blunt hepatic trauma is the standard of care. Traumatic bile leaks (TBL) are a potential complication following liver injury. The use of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in the diagnosis and treatment of TBL is described in adults, but limited in the pediatric literature. We report our experience with a multidisciplinary and minimally invasive approach to the management of TBL.
Acute obstructive cholangitis complicated by tumor migration after transarterial chemoembolization: a case report and literature review.	Intraductal tumor invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is considered rare. Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is effective for tumor thrombus of HCC in the bile duct. However, a few cases of obstructive jaundice caused by migration of a tumor fragment after TACE have recently been reported. The aim of this study was to identify factors that affect tumor migration after TACE. At this writing, a review of the medical literature disclosed seven reported cases of biliary obstruction caused by migration of a necrotic tumor cast after TACE. We, herein, report on an additional case of acute obstructive cholangitis complicated by migration of a necrotic tumor cast after TACE for intrabile duct invasion of HCC, in a 71-year-old man. The tumor cast in the common bile duct was removed successfully using a basket during ERCP and was pathologically confirmed to be a completely necrotic fragment of HCC. The patient's symptoms showed dramatic improvement. In summary, physicians should be aware of acute obstructive cholangitis complicated by tumor migration in a patient undergoing TACE. We suggest that an intrabile duct invasion would be a major predisposing factor of tumor migration after TACE and drainage procedures such as ERCP or percutaneous transbiliary drainage could be effective treatment modalities in these patients.
A single institution's experience of infundibulotomy in patients taking antiplatelet agents: outcomes, safety and complications]	The diagnostic and therapeutic utility of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) has been well demonstrated for biliary and pancreatic diseases. Biliary access can be allowed by infundibulotomy if failed by using the standard cannulation methods. However, no data are available regarding ERCP-related complications in patients taking antiplatelet agents who are undergoing infundibulotomy. Therefore, we aimed to assess the frequency of ERCP-related complications after infundibulotomy in patients taking antiplatelet agents.
A case of plummer-vinson syndrome associated with Crohn's disease.	Plummer-Vinson syndrome manifests as cervical dysphagia, iron deficiency anemia, an upper esophageal web, and atrophic glossitis. The cause of the esophageal web is thought to be iron deficiency anemia; however, the cause of Plummer-Vinson syndrome has not been established. Crohn's disease is usually accompanied by malnutrition and iron deficiency anemia; however, no case of concomitant Crohn's disease and Plummer-Vinson syndrome with aggravated malnutrition and anemia has been previously reported. Here, we report on a rare case of Plummer-Vinson syndrome in a Crohn's disease patient, which caused malnutrition and constipation.
Endoscopic lithotomy using sublingual nitroglycerin]	After medical sphincter dilation using sud-lingual nitroglycerin, endoscopic removal of common bile duct stones in 15 patients was carried out. Complete stone removal was obtained in 14 of 15 patients. Only 0.3 mg to 0.6 mg nitroglycerin was needed to give an enough dilation of the orifice for cannulating the basket catheter into the bile duct. Mechanical lithotriptor was smoothly cannulated in one patient because of possible impaction. Blood pressure was dropped transiently in one patient by nitroglycerin, however, the general condition of the patient was stable. This procedure is safe, easy and effective in preserving sphincter function. Acute cholecystitis, a common complication of persistent gallbladder stone after endoscopic sphincterotomy, may be avoided by employing this method. More clinical studies, on long term and in a large scale of patients, are necessary to reduce complications that usually occur after sphincterotomy.
Late results of endoscopic sphincterotomy in patients with intact gallbladder]	Late complications and the recurrence rate of gall-bladder stones were registered by means of annual follow-up examinations over a maximum period of five and a half years in 91 out of 116 patients in whom endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST) with the gall-bladder in situ was performed. It turned out that only one patient had colic after EST in the group of patients with patent ductus cysticus (n = 36). It was not necessary to cholecystectomise any patients. In contrast, there were 13 cases of patients with incompetent ductus cysticus (n = 55) having a colic or cholecystitis and 5 cases where the patients had to be choletectomised after EST. Thus the evaluation of the ductus cysticus is of prognostic importance in making a decision to carry out cholecystectomy after successful EST.
Endoscopy in cholestasis]	The spectrum of causes of cholestasis ranges from microscopically recognizable damage to the parenchymal cells of the liver to obstruction of the ductus choledochus und papilla Vateri. Liver biopsy on the one hand and ERCP on the other therefore constitute the morphological methods that come closest to the pathological substrate. Obligatory sonography serves the restriction of diagnosis to a large extent. Laparoscopy is nearly always dispensable. Even in case of liver biopsy the therapeutic consequences should have an influence. Consequently, for transpapillary endoscopic methods in obstructive jaundice it is essential to remove the obstruction (papillotomy and extraction of the calculus or nasobiliary probe or intraluminal tube) if possible in one and the same session. The purely diagnostic ERC possibly causes dangerous cholangitis in mechanical icterus. Transpapillary and percutaneous transhepatic endoscopic methods are becoming more and more sophisticated and new indications are being discovered. However, the results of sonography and endoscopy in obstructive jaundice depend very much on the equipment available and experience of the investigator. He should realistically estimate what he is able to do as well as the patients' chances of recovery. In addition he should maintain contact to large departments of surgery and endoscopy.
Biliary endoprostheses in elderly patients with endoscopically irretrievable common bile duct stones: report on 117 patients.	Endoscopic sphincterotomy and stone extraction can clear the bile ducts in 85% to 90% of patients. In case endoscopic stone extraction fails, insertion of a biliary endoprosthesis is an alternative.
Endoscopic transpapillary drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts.	Endoscopic therapy of pancreatic pseudocysts has been reported mainly in small series.
Treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts with ductal communication by transpapillary pancreatic duct endoprosthesis.	Endoscopic treatment of pancreatic pseudocysts via cystenterostomy has been recognized as a successful treatment option in carefully selected patients. Pancreatic transpapillary stenting as an alternative treatment option in patients with pancreatic pseudocysts directly communicating with the main duct has received little consideration. The aim of the current study was to assess the safety and utility of transpapillary pancreatic endoprosthesis in the treatment of communicating pseudocysts.
Biliary surgery.	In the past 2 years, a revolution of unprecedented scope has occurred in biliary surgery. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, first performed in 1987, has now become the procedure of choice to treat cholelithiasis. Because laparoscopic surgery proliferated in the absence of controlled clinical trials, concerns have been raised regarding its complications. This article reviews the technique of laparoscopic cholecystectomy, examines its feasibility and complications, and discusses the evolving role of intraoperative cholangiography and the approach to common bile duct stones. In a separate section, we review the year's literature on gallstone pancreatitis and on surgical treatment of benign biliary strictures.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography: before and after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.	In 39 patients with indication of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC), an endoscopic cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was performed before the procedure whenever intermittent cholestasis, acute pancreatitis or ultrasonografic biliary tract dilatation were detected. No abnormality was found in 24 of them. In 14, bile duct stones were removed by endoscopic sphincterotomy (EST). Later they were submitted to LC, and no complication was observed. Only 1 patient with cholangiografic diagnosis of Mirizzi's syndrome underwent open cholecystectomy. Twenty-four patients were referred to ERCP between 2 and 210 days following LC, after development of complications. The etiology of these complications could be established in all the cases. Sixteen patients had bile duct stones, 14 of them were treated successfully by EST and 2, with multiple stones, required open surgery extraction. Four patients had cystic bile leaks, of which 1 healed spontaneously, 1 closed his fistula after EST and removal of stones, 1 cured after a nasobiliary tube was inserted endoscopically and 1 required surgical treatment. Four patients with complete obstruction of common bile duct by misplaced clips received surgical treatment. We conclude that ERCP is indicated before LC in patients with clinical, humoral or ultrasound findings of extrahepatic cholestasis. The application of EST plus LC systematically in cases of biliary duct stones remains still controversial. We agree that ERCP is an excellent method in the diagnosis and treatment of LC complications.
Endoscopic therapy of biliary and pancreatic disorders in children.	Although many reports in the literature describe the use of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in children, few mention the therapeutic application of the technique in treating pediatric patients with pancreatic or biliary pathology. We report here on our two-year experience, consisting of 42 ERCPs conducted in 25 patients for a variety of pancreaticobiliary indications. Ages ranged from 22 months to 19 years. Five patients had normal studies; the remainder were diagnosed with a variety of pancreatic and or biliary anomalies. Seventeen patients had therapeutic interventions consisting of sphincterotomy (n = 12), dilation (n = 6), or stent placement (n = 9), with many of these procedures being done in combination. Five patients had mild complaints of abdominal pain or vomiting immediately after ERCP, but no major technical or medical complications were encountered. We find that therapeutic ERCP can be safely performed in children, but only by highly experienced endoscopists familiar with these specialized procedures.
Endoscopic treatment of biliary leakage after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.	Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is an effective and safe treatment for uncomplicated symptomatic cholelithiasis. However, biliary tract injury may be more common with this procedure than with open cholecystectomy. We have encountered 17 patients with a biliary leak among 465 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the diagnosis being established by clinical and radiographic parameters. The most common site of leakage was the cystic duct stump. Patients underwent endoscopic sphincterotomy and biliary stent placement, with an overall success rate of 96%. No morbidity or mortality related to the endoscopic procedures was encountered. We conclude that biliary leakage after laparoscopic cholecystectomy is uncommon. When it occurs, it can be treated safely and efficaciously by endoscopic means.
Response of serum cytokines in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy.	The clinical observation that a laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a minimally invasive operation has not been demonstrated on a biochemical basis. Interleukin-6, a known endogenous pyrogen and hepatocyte-stimulating protein, correlates with the significance of surgical trauma. Utilizing the IL-6 immunoassay, we studied this biochemical parameter of trauma to compare its response in laparoscopic vs open cholecystectomy. Sixteen patients who underwent only laparoscopic cholecystectomy showed peak IL-6 concentrations of 51 pg/ml (22-86) vs a peak IL-6 concentration of 124 pg/ml (56-225) for open cholecystectomy. Six additional patients who underwent an ERCP followed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy showed a dramatic rise in peak IL-6 concentration to 315 pg/ml (15-634). These results biochemically confirm the true minimal invasiveness of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The findings in the ERCP-followed-by-laparoscopic-cholecystectomy group support the theory that two invasive procedures in close proximity may prime the cytokine system in its response to surgical trauma.
Laparoscopic management of choledocholithiasis.	The authors report on a group of 114 patients with common bile duct (CBD) stones who were treated by laparoscopic surgery. Management through the cystic duct was considered the first option. Choledochotomy was used for those patients in which the cystic approach was not possible or was unsuccessful. Transcystic lithotripsy was considered for patients with CBD stones in disproportion with the size of the cystic duct. Laparoscopic antegrade sphincterotomy was indicated as a drainage procedure. The transcystic approach was used in 89.5% of the patients; choledochotomy was used in 6.2%; and both ways were used in 4.3%. Different procedures were used, including mechanical and electrohydraulic lithotripsy, choledochotomy with T-tube or endoprostheses drainage, laparoscopic sphincterotomy, end-to-end common bile duct anastomosis, and choledochoduodenum anastomosis. One of the patients was in the 21st week of pregnancy. The laparoscopic approach to choledocholithiasis was successfully performed in 94.8% of the patients. Mean hospital stay was 1.7 days. There was a 6.2% incidence of complications and the mortality rate was 0.9%. In 84.3% of the patients, the transcystic approach was used successfully, with a complication rate of 4.9% and a mean hospital stay of 1.6 days. Three patients were converted to open surgery early in this series. Thus far, one patients has presented residual CBD stones. The results obtained suggest that laparoscopic common bile duct exploration is a technically feasible procedure, with low complication and mortality rates, although it requires adequate selection of patients and a variety of techniques and types of equipment.
Endoscopic removal of calculi from the choledochus. Are there debatable questions in this problem?]	The article generalizes experience (1986-1991) in the treatment of 246 patients with choledocholithiasis with the performance of endoscopic papillosphincterotomy. Most patients (61%) were over 60 years of age, many had serious concomitant diseases. Among patients with occlusion of the bile ducts, 53.6% had obstructive purulent cholangitis, 53.6% had acute biliary pancreatitis, and 30.9% had acute cholecystitis. Typical as well as atypical cannulation EPST was applied. To exclude an X-ray load on the patient and doctor, the orifices of the terminal part of the common bile duct and of the main pancreatic duct were identified in most patients by an elaborated method of cannulation with aspiration control without preliminary contrast X-ray examination. After EPST the concrements were removed completely in 194 and partly in 52 patients. Complications occurred in 35 patients (bleeding in 5, acute pancreatitis in 8, acute cholangitis in 6, acute cholecystitis in 8, perforation of the duodenum in 1, and wedging of Dormia's basket in 8 patients. Eight patients died after EPST from unresolved purulent cholangitis and multiple cholangitic abscesses of the liver. The long-term results were studied in follow-up periods of 12 months to 7 years. Recurrent cholelithiasis was encountered in 2 patients. On the basis of the accumulated experience we believe EPST to be the method of choice in the management of: residual and recurrent choledocholithiasis, patients with cholecystocholedocholithiasis and operation risk factors, patients with acute biliary pancreatitis and acute obstructive cholangitis.
Obstructive jaundice caused by residual and/or recurrent choledochal lithiasis: endoscopic and surgical treatment]	Results of surgical and endoscopic treatment in 79 patients (58 females and 21 males, age 40-89, mean 62), affected with jaundice, due to secondary choledochal lithiasis, are reported. Thirty-four patients (43%) underwent surgical operation: choledochotomy and T-tube 12, choledocho-jejunostomy 4, choledochoduodenostomy 3, papillosphincteroplasty 15. In 45 patients (57%) EST has been performed. Comparison of results has been obtained after 30 days and after 3-105 months (mean 49). Optimal results have been achieved in 94.9% of patients: 100% after surgery and 94.1% after EST. Morbidity and mortality outcomes in patients who underwent EST (11.1% and 0% after 30 days respectively, 8.1% and 8.1% after several months) are better compared to those ones after surgical treatment (17.6% and 5.8% after 30 days, 20% and 16% after several months). We conclude that EST is nowadays the therapy of choice in patients with jaundice due to choledochal lithiasis, either relapsing or residual.
Therapeutic ERCP: spectrum of procedures performed in 60 consecutive patients.	Therapeutic applications of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) have increased dramatically, and endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) is the cornerstone of these techniques. Indications include treatment of retained biliary duct stones, papillary stenosis, benign and malignant strictures, and acute cholangitis and pancreatitis. We reviewed our recent experience to assess the spectrum of procedures done and their results. Medical records and radiographic examinations in 60 consecutive patients undergoing therapeutic ERCP were studied. Patients were placed into one of three treatment groups; Group 1, ES alone (N = 21); Group 2, ES plus stone retrieval (N = 15); and Group 3, ES plus stent placement (N = 24). In Group 1, all of eight patients with ductal stones had spontaneous passage. In 11 patients with papillary stenosis, nine had relief of symptoms following ES. Two patients with pancreatitis improved after ES. In Group 2, all 15 patients with ductal stones had successful retrieval. In Group 3, patients were treated for biliary stricture alone (4), retained stones (7), pancreatitis (5), neoplasms (6) and papillary stenosis (2). In these 24 patient, 21 (88%) were treated successfully or had palliation of their symptoms. In our series, a wide variety of therapeutic applications of ERCP was used to manage simple and complex biliary disease. ES alone or in combination with other techniques was done in all patients. Overall, 55 (92%) of 60 interventional procedures were successful as defined by removal of stones and relief or palliation of symptoms.
Adenoma of the common bile duct simulating a calculus]	We report the case of a 81-year old woman having had a cholecystectomy due to cholelithiasis four years ago. Three years later she suffered from cholangiolithiasis, which was treated by endoscopic revision of the hepatic duct. After another year she had right upper quadrant pain and was admitted to hospital. ERCP revealed an intraluminal filling defect. Suspecting cholangiolithiasis the patient was referred to our hospital for papillotomy and extraction of a "common duct stone". On withdrawal of the basket a tissue mass was removed. The histological examination showed a tubulopapillary adenoma of the common bile duct.
Basic principles of treatment for patients with acute pancreatitis]	The results of treatment of 1,320 patients with acute pancreatitis were analysed, 460 of them had the destructive form of the disease. The high significance of multicomponent etiopathogenetic treatment is demonstrated. The importance of etiotropic treatment with the application of endoscopic interventions, as well as treatment with cytostatics is emphasized. Timely combined use of these methods prevents a progressive uncontrolled course, and reduces the volume of treatment and its duration. The authors also discuss the first experience in nontraditional management of patients with postnecrotic cavitary complications of pancreonecrosis by the aspiration "closed" method with the use of ultrasound.
Endoscopic sphincterotomy for the treatment of cystic duct leak following laparoscopic cholecystectomy.	Two patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy had postoperative cystic duct leak from slipped metallic clips. One patient presented with biliary ascites and the other with biliocutaneous fistula. Open surgery done in the first patient was not successful in controlling the fistula. Rapid closure of the fistulae was achieved in both cases using endoscopic sphincterotomy.
Transanal ultrasound and manometry in the evaluation of fecal incontinence.	This preliminary study was undertaken to clarify the role of ultrasonography of anal sphincters in the colorectal laboratory.
Follow-up of elderly patients previously treated for uncomplicated acute lithiasic cholecystitis]	Surgery is usually indicated in elderly patients with acute lithiasic cholecystitis although single antibiotics are often used for patients over 75 with complex medical histories and major visceral lesions. In our series of 45 patients, no new biliary pathology was seen in 26 (57.8%) after a mean follow-up of 40 months. In 15 patients, acute cholecystitis recurred and in 4 a stone found in the common bile duct. No deaths were associated with biliary pathology. While antibiotics appear to have an immediate beneficial effect, medium and long term results are mediocre. Percutaneous cholecystectomie however would be a satisfactory technique for external drainage even though mortality related to other pathologies is high.
Endoscopic papillotomy and extraction of bile duct calculi in patients with gallbladder in situ and cholelithiasis]	Cholecystectomy with surgical papillotomy is a prolonged procedure with significant morbidity and mortality. In patient stay is usually extended. Occasionally the bad general conditions and the advanced age of the patients contraindicate surgical procedures. Eventually, the drainage of the biliary ducts is inevitable. For this reason, since 1983, we are performing the endoscopic papillotomy and extraction of stones from the bile duct in patients with choledocholithiasis and cholelithiasis. Cholecystectomy was performed only in cases with real necessity. Ninety one patients, 26 men and 65 women, between 25 and 82 years, have been submitted to this procedure in our department. Cholecystectomy was performed in 52 cases after 24 to 72 hours post-papillotomy. Due to acute cholecystitis 12 patients had to be operated after a period of 2 months to 2 years. No cholecystectomy was performed in 27 patients, they are still asymptomatic. Then were no mortality related to the method.
Hazard and outcome of retreated choledochal cyst patients.	Thirty-nine patients initially treated for choledochal cyst (25: cyst-enterostomy for 15 type I and 10 type IV A, 13: cyst excision for 8 type I and 5 type IV A, 1: sphincterotomy for type III) have been completely followed up for a mean period of 17 years to examine the effect of surgical management on their lives. Eighteen of 25 cases with cyst-enterostomy (72%) needed retreatment due to the complications but one could not be retreated because of the presence of advanced bile duct carcinoma. Fourteen of 17 cases were retreated with cyst excision, of whom 12 showed an excellent outcome but other two were suffering from cholangitis and hepatolithiasis. The remaining 3 patients retreated with PTCS or cyst-enterostomy showed a poor outcome. Of 13 patients who had undergone cyst excision with hepatico-jejunostomy as the first choice, 12 showed a good outcome but one needed retreatment due to the anastomotic stenosis and hepatolithiasis. Thus, excision of cyst should be the surgical management for choledochal cyst. However, it should be noted that three of 27 patients treated initially or secondarily with cyst excision showed unsatisfactory results mainly due to the anastomotic stenosis. The results demonstrate that hepaticojejunostomy with a wide opening stoma is necessary to prevent postoperative morbidity.
General surgery: biliary surgery.	The management of biliary tract disease has changed completely as a result of minimally invasive treatment. For most patients with gallstones that cause symptoms a laparoscopic cholecystectomy will treat the condition with minimal morbidity and a short recovery period. If complications are encountered, conversion to a mini-cholecystectomy gives results that are nearly as good. Acute cholecystitis can be treated by percutaneous drainage followed either by percutaneous cholecystolithotomy or a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Gallstones in the bile duct are best treated by endoscopic sphincterotomy with duct clearance. The day of the large cholecystectomy scar with its subsequent incisional hernia has gone.
Endoscopic extraction of bile duct stones: management related to stone size.	Endoscopic sphincterotomy has become the first line treatment for patients with common bile duct (CBD) stones. This technique may fail, however, due to difficult anatomy, previous surgery, periampullary diverticula or the presence of a large stone. The importance of stone size to the success of endoscopic sphincterotomy has not been fully assessed. A prospective study was carried out over the period January 1987 to December 1989 on 100 patients (45 male, 55 female, median age 69 years, range 19-97) with CBD stones in which a policy of early duct clearance was followed. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) was performed and the stone size and number recorded from the cholangiograms and corrected for magnification. Sphincterotomy was performed using a diathermy unit with a cutting current and stones were extracted using a balloon catheter or a Dormia basket. Of the 100 patients with CBD stones receiving ERCP, successful clearance of the biliary tree was possible in seven without endoscopic sphincterotomy and five were felt to be unsuitable for endoscopic sphincterotomy. Of the remaining 88 patients endoscopic sphincterotomy was successful in 75 (85%). Of the 75 patients having endoscopic sphincterotomy stone clearance was successful in 44 (59%). There were no deaths and only four complications, which rapidly resolved on conservative treatment (two acute pancreatitis, two bleeding). The number of CBD stones present was similar in those patients with successful endoscopic sphincterotomy and duct clearance (median 1, range 1-10, n = 44) as in those in whom it failed (median 2, range 1-6, n = 31). In contrast there was a highly significant difference when stone size was analysed (successful clearance median stone size 10 mm, range 3-27 mm; unsuccessful: median 18 mm, range 10-42, p<0.001). Stones less than 10 mm in diameter (n=21) were all removed successfully whereas in patients with stones over 15 mm (n=25) only three were removed endoscopically (12%). All patients with evidence of residual stones had additional treatment. Of these 31 patients, 10 had surgery, 11 had insertion of an endoprosthesis, and 10 had dissolution treatment with methyl-tert-butyl ether through a nasobiliary catheter. This study shows the importance of stone size to the success rate of endoscopic removal of bile duct stones.
Post-cholecystectomy patients with "objective signs" of partial bile outflow obstruction: clinical characteristics, sphincter of Oddi manometry findings, and results of therapy.	Seventeen patients, 15 women and 2 men with upper abdominal pain categorized to biliary group I suspected sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, underwent thorough clinical evaluation including ERCP and endoscopic sphincter of Oddi manometry. All the patients were subsequently treated by endoscopic (n = 15) or surgical (n = 2) sphincterotomy. The mean age of patients studied was 62 years. They all had cholecystectomy several years previously (median, 18 years). At ERCP all patients showed a large common bile duct dilation (mean diameter, 18 mm) and delayed contrast drainage greater than 45 minutes. Sphincter of Oddi manometry, although abnormal in most patients, revealed normal sphincter of Oddi pressure in six patients (35%). Nonetheless, sphincterotomy resulted in relief of symptoms in all (mean follow-up, 28 months; range, 3 to 46 months), thus suggesting that their pain was indeed caused by the disordered sphincter of Oddi. These findings support the previous assumption that in symptomatic post-cholecystectomy patients the triad of elevated liver function tests, dilated common bile duct, and delayed contrast drainage at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography indicates a definitive sphincter of Oddi abnormality. The normal sphincter of Oddi pressures in many of these patients are probably due to a different, noncompliant type of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Because these patients invariably benefit from sphincterotomy, sphincter of Oddi manometry in this category is not only unnecessary, but it may also be misleading.
Laparoscopic common bile duct exploration.	Twenty-one patients underwent laparoscopic common bile duct exploration during a 9 month period. Ten had stones flushed after ampullary dilatation. Seven had stones removed with a Dormier basket and one had direct common duct incision with T-tube insertion. Three failed attempted stone flushing and had stones removed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and sphincterotomy. Operating time ranged from 1.5 to 3.5 h. Nineteen patients were discharged by the second postoperative day. This early experience with laparoscopic stone removal is encouraging, reducing the need for pre-operative or postoperative ERCP.
Emergency endoscopic papillotomy]	The authors describe their experience with urgent endoscopic procedures of the papilla Vater. They consider septic cholangitis and acute pancreatitis indications for endoscopic papillotomy. The authors made a total of 27 operations, incl. 22 on account of pancreatitis and five on account of cholangitis. One female patient with necrotizing pancreatitis caused by a protracted sepsis and multiorgan failure, died. Otherwise there were no serious complications; after the majority of operations a steep drop of pathological laboratory values was recorded. One of the most important factors for successful endoscopic intervention is in the authors' opinion rapid action. With regard to the favourable initial results the authors recommend a detailed multi-centre prospective randomized study.
Sphincter of Oddi disfunction in "idiopathic" recurrent pancreatitis]	As the pathogenesis of acute recurrent pancreatitis remains unclear in 30% of patients, it was the aim of this study to find out whether and how often changes in sphincter of Oddi motility is present in these patients and whether endoscopic treatment promises success.
Migratory surgical clip in the common bile duct: CT diagnosis.	There are only a few case reports in the literature describing the migration of metallic surgical clips into the common bile duct. Diagnosis of this postcholecystectomy complication is usually made during ERCP. We describe the identification on CT scan of a migratory surgical clip in the common bile duct in a patient with biliary colic.
Diagnosis and therapy for ampullary tumors: 63 cases.	From 1970 to 1992 a total of 63 patients underwent operation for ampullary tumor: 40 pancreatoduodenectomies (PDs), 3 total PDs, 8 ampullectomies, and 12 bypass or exploratory laparotomies. The resectability rate was 68%. There were 9 benign tumors, 1 anaplastic tumor, and 53 adenocarcinomas. According to Martin's classification, there were 7 stage I, 11 stage II, 14 stage III, and 21 stage IV tumors. All patients with stage I, II, and III tumors underwent resection. Patients with stage IV tumors had either resection (n = 11) or bypass (n = 10). The mean duration of hospital stay was 20.6 days. Operative mortality was 12.7% for the whole series and 7.5% after PD (2.5% for the last 10 years). Overall survival was 40% at 5 years (85% for stage I, 65% for stage II, 44% for stage III, and 8% for stage IV). Survival was better for stages I, II, and III after PD than after ampullectomy. For stage IV patients survival was 70% after PD versus 20% after bypass at 1 year and 25% versus 0% after 2 years. In our opinion, PD should be proposed even for benign lesions because two of our patients had to undergo repeat operation (PD) 4 and 22 years later, respectively, for stage IV disease. PD is our choice for all tumors of the ampulla.
Endoscopic approaches to common bile duct injuries.	Operative injury of the biliary tree is not a new complication of cholecystectomy but has become increasingly more visible during the emergence of the laparoscopic approach. Optimal treatment of such problems depends upon early recognition and strategic planning of a therapeutic approach. ERCP has become increasingly important in identifying bile leaks and their source after cholecystectomy. A high index of suspicion is mandatory in patients complaining of discomfort several days after surgery, and liberal use of CT or ultrasound imaging helps identify bile leaks before peritonitis is severe. Once bile leaks or ductal injury are suspected, ERCP should be performed to confirm the leak, identify its site and cause, and help define a therapeutic plan. In minor leaks, endoscopic diversion by sphincterotomy or stenting provides a rapid solution. In more significant injuries where ductal integrity is intact, endoscopic dilatation and stenting may play a role in closing leaks and resolving strictures while averting surgery. Where injury is severe, ERCP, often combined with transhepatic cholangiography, helps to rapidly assess the extent of injury and plan a strategy for operative repair.
Endoscopic sphincterotomy for bile duct calculi-factors influencing the success rate.	Endoscopic sphincterotomy is an established treatment of retained or recurrent common bile duct calculi after cholecystectomy and in the majority of patients with an intact gallbladder. In order to identify patients ultimately requiring additional endoscopic procedures or surgery, factors predictive of decreased endoscopic bile duct clearance were sought.
Endoscopic sphincterotomy prior to laparoscopic cholecystectomy for the treatment of cholelithiasis.	Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the standard treatment for symptomatic cholecystolithiasis; however, there is debate on the management of patients with concomitant common bile duct stones. Several options have been suggested; endoscopic sphincterotomy and laparoscopic common bile duct exploration seemed to be the preferred methods at this moment.
Endoscopic treatment of bile duct stones: is stone extraction necessary after endoscopic sphincterotomy?	The current treatment for stones in the biliary tree is endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) followed by stone extraction with the help of balloon catheters or metal baskets. Stone extraction techniques are often associated with complications. Moreover, the balloon catheters break easily which aids to the cost of the procedure. The present study was designed to examine the effectiveness of endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) alone in allowing spontaneous expulsion of bile duct stones and to determine the circumstances which warrant stone extraction.
Endoscopic treatment of biliary ascariasis. Report of a case.	Ascaris lumbricoides is the most common intestinal parasite to infect humans. The incidence of ascariasis is increasing in our regions, due to world travel and population migration. In one third of cases, the worm can enter the bile duct and cause cholangitis or biliary colics. Diagnosis and treatment of ascariasis are discussed. Endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography (ERCP) with endoscopic extraction of the worm, using a Dormia basket, is a safe and effective procedure for the diagnosis and treatment of biliary ascariasis. This technique serves as an effective alternative for surgery.
ERCP in association with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. A strategy to minimize the number of unnecessary ERCPs.	With the evolution of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) as the standard operation for benign gallbladder disease, the role of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in the management of common bile duct (CBD) stones has to be defined.
What place for endoscopic sphincterotomy in treatment of acute pancreatitis?]	A prospective study was undertaken in order to evaluate the effects of endoscopic sphincterotomy on the evolution of biliary and idiopathic acute pancreatitis.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in patients with Billroth II gastrectomy.	Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopacreatography and associated therapeutic procedures are widely used in routine clinical practice. The changes in the upper gastrointestinal anatomy after a Billroth II anastomosis may present technical difficulties at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopacreatography.
The utility of liver function test abnormalities concomitant with biliary symptoms in predicting a favorable response to endoscopic sphincterotomy in patients with presumed sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.	We sought to study the utility of liver function test abnormalities concomitant with biliary symptoms in predicting a favorable response to endoscopic sphincterotomy in patients with Geenen class II sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.
Hypertensive pancreatic sphincter.	Major papilla pancreatic sphincter dysfunction, a variant of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, causes pancreatitis or pancreatic-type pain. Endoscopic manometry as performed at endoscopic retrograde cholangiography is the most commonly used method to identify sphincter dysfunction. Noninvasive testing, such as secretin-stimulated ultrasound analysis of duct diameter, is less reliable and of relatively low sensitivity. Two-thirds of patients with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction have elevated pancreatic basal sphincter pressure. Patients with suspected or documented sphincter of Oddi dysfunction may respond to biliary sphincterotomy alone, but warrant evaluation of their pancreatic sphincter if symptoms persist after therapy. Whether such pancreatic and biliary sphincters should be treated at the first treatment session is controversial. Pancreatic sphincterotomy is associated with a complication rate very similar to that of biliary sphincterotomy except that the pancreatitis rate is two- to fourfold higher. Prophylactic pancreatic stenting diminishes such pancreatitis by approximately 50%.
The prediction of common bile duct stones using a neural network.	The role of preoperative ERCP and endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) in the diagnosis and treatment of suspected common bile duct stones (CBDS) in the laparoscopic age is controversial. The preoperative diagnosis of CBDS by ERCP and the removal of CBDS by ES are advantageous because of technical difficulties in performing laparoscopic exploration of the common bile duct. Approximately 50% of preoperative ERCP examinations are normal, however. The noninvasive diagnosis of CBDS has assumed new importance, but it has proved to be an elusive goal. Neural networks are a form of artificial computer intelligence that have been used successfully to interpret ECGs and to diagnose myocardial infarcts. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a neural network could be trained to predict CBDS accurately in patients at high risk of having duct stones.
Endoscopic sphincterotomy for common bile duct stones in younger patients.	Most follow-up studies of patients with common bile duct stones treated with endoscopic sphincterotomy include older patients. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to do a medium-term follow-up of patients under the age of 60 years, who underwent endoscopic sphincterotomy and removal of common bile duct stones.
Effectiveness of endoscopic sphincterotomy in complicated hepatic hydatid disease.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the results of endoscopic sphincterotomy in patients with hepatic hydatid cysts that have ruptured into the biliary tract.
Cholestasis: interventional therapy]	Treatment of cholestasis by bile duct obstruction is nowadays dominated by endoscopy and other interventional measures. Intraductal concrements can be removed almost always without open surgery. This is as a rule achieved by a transpapillary approach with the additional use of lithothripsy. Percutaneous transhepatic treatment of concrements is restricted to patients in which a transpapillary approach is impossible. Stenoses of biliary ducts by malignancies are treated with plastic or metallic endoprosthesis if curative resection is precluded. Percutaneous drainage is a valid option in reserve. Stenosis of the papilla by scars, tumors or sphincter dysfunction are mainly treated endoscopically, malignancies--if possible--by radical surgery. Rare causes for obstruction have also to be considered. They are in most instances amenable to interventional procedures.
Causes, clinical features and non-operative management of bile leaks.	This paper evaluates the management of 31 patients with bile leaks identified over a 7-year period. Leaks complicated cholecystectomy in 19 patients (11 laparoscopic, 8 open), interventional procedures in 10 (including surgery in 1), trauma in one and was spontaneous in one case. Confirmation of the diagnosis typically lagged behind the onset of symptoms (mean for the group 4.2 days), indicating that a high index of suspicion is required in at-risk patients with typical symptoms. These include abdominal pain or distension, fever, bile leaking along a drain, jaundice, abnormal liver function tests and elevated white cell count. Two post-surgical bile leaks required surgical drainage of abdominal cellections. The remainder were successfully managed by non-operative methods including percutaneous drainage, endoscopic retrograde cholangiography with or without sphincterotomy or stent placement and percutaneous stenting. The spontaneous leak and all bile leaks complicating interventional procedures were managed non-operatively, although six patients in this group died due to the underlying malignant pathology. Only the patient with self-inflicted transection of the bile duct died directly from the complications of the bile leak. Although this is a varied, small series, we conclude that the majority of bile leaks can be managed by non-operative techniques. Whilst endoscopy is the primary modality for treatment, percutaneous techniques are crucially important for the management of complex cases and endoscopic failure.
