Diclofenac reduces the incidence of acute pancreatitis after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography.	Acute pancreatitis following endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography presents a unique opportunity for prophylaxis and early modification of the disease process because the initial triggering event is temporally well defined and takes place in the hospital. We report a prospective, single-center, randomized, double-blind controlled trial to determine if rectal diclofenac reduces the incidence of pancreatitis following cholangiopancreatography.
Biliary dyskinesia: is the problem with Oddi?	We report our experience of cholecystectomy for treating symptoms suggestive of biliary disease in association with a decreased gallbladder ejection fraction (GBEF) but without evidence of cholelithiasis. Five children with normal biliary ultrasounds were evaluated between January 1990 and December 2000 for recurrent upper abdominal pain. Based on a cholecystokinin (CCK)-provoked GBEF of less than 50% and the absence of any other gastrointestinal pathology, patients underwent cholecystectomy with operative cholangiography for presumed biliary dyskinesia. Pathological examination demonstrated chronic inflammation in all cases. Two patients had complete resolution of their symptoms, but three had persistent pain following surgery. Biliary dyskinesia seems an uncommon cause of persistent abdominal pain in childhood. Cholecystectomy was not always effective in relieving symptoms. Biliary scintigraphy with CCK provocation should not be used as the sole criterion for cholecystectomy. Sphincteric manometry may be valuable in the assessment of this small group of patients to avoid inappropriate intervention. The future perhaps lies in better understanding of the physiological action and pharmacological control of the sphincter of Oddi.
Aerobilia and hypomotility of the sphincter of Oddi in a patient with chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction.	A 50-year-old woman with a typical history of chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction was admitted to hospital because of an acute episode of abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting. The diagnosis of chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction had been established in this patient who had malnutrition and extreme weight loss as a result of severe malabsorption syndrome. The abdominal roentgenogram showed a typical hypotonic intestine with an enlarged stomach and distended intestinal loops with the radiological signs of an ileus. In addition to former episodes, there was also a transient aerobilia. The patient had not undergone biliary surgery or endoscopic sphincterotomy. To investigate the cause of the findings, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and endoscopic manometry of the sphincter of Oddi were performed. The endoscopy showed the stomach and duodenum with a wide and dilated lumen and no spontaneous motility. Endoscopic manometry of the biliary tract and the sphincter of Oddi showed several abnormalities compared with a group of normal volunteers or patients who were examined via biliary manometry for other reasons. There was a low basal pressure (3.5 mm Hg) in the sphincter of Oddi together with low-amplitude phasic contractions (25-30 mm Hg), but the contraction frequency was in the normal range. Further investigations of the motility of the gastrointestinal tract in this patient showed diffuse esophageal spasms and a markedly delayed gastric emptying. The findings of biliary manometry in this patient suggest involvement of the sphincter of Oddi and the biliary system in chronic idiopathic pseudo-obstruction.
Evaluation of endoscopic sphincterotomy in sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.	In this prospective study the efficacy of endoscopic sphincterotomy was evaluated in ten post-cholecystectomy patients with clinical and biliary manometric evidence of SO dysfunction. Ten patients (8 females, 2 males, median age 59 years) were assessed at a median period of 24 months (range 12-48) after endoscopic sphincterotomy. Eight of the ten patients (80%) were symptomatically improved after endoscopic sphincterotomy although only four were totally asymptomatic. The two patients who had unchanged symptoms after sphincterotomy have since had alternative diagnoses made and have improved on appropriate therapy. It is concluded that endoscopic sphincterotomy is effective in relieving symptoms in post-cholecystectomy patients with clinical and manometric evidence of SO dysfunction.
HIDA scan ejection fraction does not predict sphincter of Oddi hypertension or clinical outcome in patients with suspected chronic acalculous cholecystitis.	Hepatobiliary iminodiacetic scan with ejection fraction (HIDA EF) is used to evaluate chronic acalculous cholecystitis (CAC). A presumed etiology of CAC is sphincter of Oddi hypertension (SOH). In this study, we evaluated the value of HIDA EF to predict patient response to laparoscopic cholecystectomy and to identify SOH.
Evaluation of serum amylase and gabexate mesilate with endoscopic papillary balloon dilatation.	Gabexate mesilate (GM) relaxes the papilla of Vater in addition to inhibiting the several proteases. We evaluated whether prophylactic administration of GM would prevent the occurrence of acute pancreatitis in endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD). Nineteen patients with common bile duct stones were separated into two groups according to the admission year. The group A has been administered GM intravenously at 2mg/kg/hr after EPBD till six hours later, and the group B has been administered GM before fifteen minutes of EPBD till six hours later. The mean value of sphincter of Oddi (SO) basal and peak pressure in the group B was significantly lower than that in the group A, moreover the mean value of the pancreatic pressure in the group B was significantly lower than that in the group A. However two cases had mild acute pancreatitis in the group B. GM loosened SO and pancreatic duct pressure by direct stimulation of SO, although it could not have enough effect to prevent the acute pancreatitis in EPBD.
Endoscopic manometry of the sphincter of Oddi and pancreatic duct in patients with papillary stenosis.	The function of the sphincter of Oddi (SO) in patients with papillary stenosis was evaluated using endoscopic manometry to determine its possible contribution to pancreatic dysfunction. A total of 30 patients with papillary stenosis were divided into two groups according to the pattern of narrowing of the sphincter zone observed in ERCP studies: group A, a mild form, and group B, a severe form. Group C (control) comprised 12 subjects with no abnormality of the pancreas or biliary system. The SO contraction pressure was significantly higher in group A (115.1 mmHg) than in groups B (79.2) and C (91.1). The SO basal pressure in groups A (11.5 mmHg) and B (10.3) was significantly higher than in group C (5.8). The pancreatic duct pressure in group A (15.5 mmHg) was significantly higher than in group C (9.7), while group B (11.1) showed an intermediate value. The increase in pancreatic duct pressure following intravenous secretin was significantly greater in groups A and C than in B. The BT-PABA test in groups A and C revealed a normal value in contrast to group B. A significant correlation was observed between these two factors. The function of both the SO and the pancreas thus appears to be abnormal in patients with severe narrowing of the SO and papillary stenosis.
Biliary tract complications after liver transplantation: a review.	Biliary complications continue to be a major cause of morbidity in liver transplant recipients with an incidence of 10-30% following whole-organ transplantation and a mortality rate of up to 10%. Biliary leaks and strictures are most common but sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, hemobilia, and biliary obstruction are also observed. Biliary complications may be related to various factors such as hepatic artery patency, preservation injury, cytomegalovirus infection, chronic ductopenic rejection, ABO incompatibility, and technical reasons. The latter include imperfect anastomosis, T-tube-related complications and the use of partial liver grafts when cut surface biliary leaks or inadvertent bile duct injuries may occur during parenchymal division. The usage of a T-tube for duct-to-duct anastomosis in whole-organ liver transplantation remains controversial, mainly because of the high rates of T-tube-related complications observed in many series. In this article we review the etiology, as well as the main types of biliary complications according to the technique of biliary reconstruction and liver transplant procedure performed. Their management is also discussed with interventional radiology and endoscopic techniques emerging as the preferred treatment option, obviating the need for surgery in a selected majority of patients.
Biliary pain in postcholecystectomy patients without biliary obstruction. A prospective radionuclide study.	Biliary pain without obvious biliary obstruction is common in postcholecystectomy patients. We studied 20 symptomatic patients with episodes of biliary-type pain after cholecystectomy (all having undergone endoscopic retrograde cholangiography), and in 18 asymptomatic postcholecystectomy controls. We performed quantitative hepatobiliary radionuclide analysis with dimethyl-imidodiacetic acid. From a series of 90 dynamic images at 1-min intervals using a gamma camera coupled to a computer, time-activity curves were produced in regions of interest in the liver, intrahepatic biliary tree, common duct, and heart, from which quantitative biliary excretion indexes were obtained. The results demonstrate a biliary kinetic dysfunction in patients with postcholecystectomy pain without morphological abnormalities.
Management of patients with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction based on a new classification.	To propose a new classification system for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction (SOD) based on clinical data of patients.
Sphincter of Oddi manometry by choledochoscope in patients with duodenobiliary reflux.	  Previous research has confirmed that duodenobiliary reflux exists in patients with choledocholithiasis. The objective of this study was to investigate whether the motor activity of the sphincter of Oddi (SO) has an effect on duodenobiliary reflux.
Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction: an evidence-based review.	Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction is a painful syndrome that presents as recurrent episodes of right upper quadrant biliary pain, or recurrent idiopathic pancreatitis. It is a disease process that has been a subject of controversy, in part because its natural history, disease course and treatment outcomes have not been clearly defined in large controlled studies with long-term follow-up. This review is aimed at clarifying the state-of-the-art with an evidence-based summary of the current diagnostic and therapeutic approaches and modalities for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. 
Computer analysis of pressure tracings from the sphincter of Oddi.	Since the sphincter of Oddi exhibits very regular phasic motor activity it offers itself to the design of a simple computer program in the analysis of gastrointesinal motility. This investigation is the first attempt of a practical application of such a computer program. The signals coming out of the pressure preamplifier are submitted to active filtering in order to prevent aliasing and then to analog to digital conversion. After being fed into a computer they are precessed in a number of controllable and adaptable steps before the final analysis. Computer analysis then yields a detailed quantitative print out of a large variety of variables which compares very favourably with the visual analysis. It speeds up the time of analysis and allows for a study of long-term recording. Computer analysis of pressure tracings from the sphincter of Oddi may serve as a model for a study of motor activity of all parts of the digestive tract with this modern method of data handling.
Alterations in biliary motility correlate with increased gallbladder prostaglandin synthesis in early cholelithiasis in prairie dog.	Abnormal biliary motility has been observed in humans with gallstones and in animal models; however, the mechanism by which these abnormalities occur remains unknown. In this study we investigated the relationship between cholesterol gallstone formation, changes in biliary motility, and rates of gallbladder prostaglandin synthesis in prairie dogs receiving a 0.34% cholesterol diet for two, four, or six weeks. Gallstones did not occur until four weeks, when the incidence was 14%; after six weeks the incidence was 64%. Gallbladder emptying increased slightly at two weeks before becoming significantly decreased at four and six weeks. In contrast, there was a near linear increase in basal cystic duct resistance which began by two weeks of cholesterol feeding, although sphincter of Oddi resistances remained normal throughout the period of study. The synthesis of prostaglandins E and F2 alpha by the gallbladder was also increased beginning at two weeks and rose to a plateau at four and six weeks. In view of the potent effects of prostaglandins on biliary smooth muscle, these findings suggest that prostaglandins may mediate early changes in gallbladder and cystic duct motility which ultimately result in impaired gallbladder emptying.
Observations on the function of Oddi's sphincter in patients with primary bile duct stones]	We recorded the pressure of Oddi's sphincter (SO) in 54 patients with gall stones and 25 patients as controls who had no biliary disease. Endoscopic manometry used in this study recorded the dynamic changes of the intraluminal pressure of SO as well as the static pressure of the common bile duct. It was found that in control group, common bile duct pressure was 1.54 +/- 0.15 kPa, basic pressure of SO 2.12 +/- 0.22 kPa, SO-bile duct pressure difference 0.58 +/- 0.07 kPa, and SO peak pressure 5.56 +/- 0.47 kPa, respectively. There was no significant difference between patients with gallbladder stones and secondary cholelithiasis and those in control group. But the pressure of SO was significantly lower in patients with primary bile duct stones than that in controls. This phenomenon indicates that in such patients the contraction strength of SO is weak or lost. This may explain retrograde cholangitis often seen in some patients. We suggest that in order to prevent retrograde cholangitis, adequate procedure should be taken in operation on patients with functional impairment of SO.
Motility of the sphincter of Oddi and pancreatic main ductal pressure in patients with alcoholic, gallstone-associated, and idiopathic chronic pancreatitis.	We endoscopically measured pressures of the pancreatic duct (PP) and the sphincter of Oddi (SO) in patients with alcoholic (ALCP, n = 10), gallstone-associated (GSCP, n = 7), and idiopathic chronic pancreatitis (ICP, n = 21), and in 20 controls. The PP was significantly higher in the patients with ALCP (55.7 +/- 28.9 mm Hg), GSCP (33.6 +/- 16.2 mm Hg), or ICP (44.5 +/- 25.8 mm Hg) than in the controls (16.2 +/- 8.7 mm Hg), but there was no significant difference between ALCP, GSCP, and ICP. There was no significant difference between control subjects and ICP in the motility of SO. In ICP, there was no correlation between the PP and the motility of SO. In ALCP and GSCP, the frequencies of the papillary sphincter waves were significantly higher than in normal subjects, and there were correlations between the PP and the motility of SO. These data suggest that increased pancreatic ductal pressure in GSCP with papillitis or ALCP may be due in part to papillary dysfunction, but not in ICP.
Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction: results of treatment by endoscopic sphincterotomy.	From a consecutive series of 451 patients with post-cholecystectomy symptoms referred for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), 40 (9 per cent) were diagnosed as having sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Eight patients were excluded from the study because of incomplete data (n = 6) or additional diagnoses (n = 2). Thirty of the patients had successful ERCP and endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES); this failed in the remaining two because of severe papillary stenosis (6.3 per cent). Endoscopic biliary manometry was performed in 23 patients (77 per cent). Immediate post-ES complications occurred in eight patients (25 per cent). At a median follow-up of 46 months (range 10-88 months) 19 patients had a good outcome (63.3 per cent) and 11 patients had a poor outcome (36.7 per cent). Patients with a good outcome tended to have a delay of months or years following cholecystectomy before the development of symptoms (median 6 years versus 0 years, P = 0.0003). At ERCP, patients with a good outcome had greater common bile duct diameters (mean +/- s.d. mm, 12.6 +/- 3.6 versus 8.8 +/- 1.8, P = 0.0003) and delayed drainage from the biliary tree of injected contrast (13 versus 2 patients, P = 0.02). Endoscopic biliary manometry was abnormal in all 15 patients with a good outcome in whom it was performed but in only 3 out of 8 patients with a poor outcome (P = 0.003). Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction is an important, albeit uncommon, cause of post-cholecystectomy symptoms. ES provides symptomatic relief in the majority of patients but improved criteria for predicting outcome are required.
Peroperative sphincter of Oddi manometry: motility disorder in patients with cholelithiasis.	Intraluminal pressure recordings from the sphincter of Oddi (SO) have made significant contributions towards the understanding of normal SO function and are being used for the diagnosis of SO motility abnormalities. In this study the endoscopic intraluminal methods for measuring SO pressure changes have been adapted for use under sterile conditions during surgery on the biliary system. Sphincter of Oddi pressure measurement in a group of patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy for gallstones, were compared with a group of control subjects undergoing endoscopic study of the SO. There was no significant difference in CBD pressure. SO basal pressure, SO wave amplitude and SO wave frequency. However, a highly significant difference was noted in the propagation direction of the SO contractions. The control subjects had a predominance of antegrade contractions whereas patients undergoing cholecystectomy had a predominance of retrograde contractions. This result suggests an association between SO motility disorder and the presence of gallstones.
Results of sphincteroplasty in patients with spastic sphincter of Oddi. Predictive value of operative biliary manometry and provocation tests.	The predictive value of different preoperative provocation tests and operative biliary manometry was studied in a series of 22 patients undergoing sphincteroplasty for suspected spastic sphincter of Oddi (SPO). The result of the operation was good in 59%, 54%, and 71% of patients in groups with a positive codein test, a positive endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography filling pain sign, and positive fentanyl test, respectively. Common bile duct pressure (CBDP) did not differ significantly between the SPO spasm group and control patients, but in the fentanyl test the CBDP elevation was significantly higher (p less than 0.01) than in controls (7.7 versus 3.3 mm Hg). It was concluded that the operative fentanyl test seems to be useful in predicting the response to surgery (sphincteroplasty) in patients with post-cholecystectomy biliary-type pain and suspected SPO spasm.
Endoscopic manometry in the diagnosis of the postcholecystectomy pain syndrome.	A manometric study of the distal biliary tract was carried out by means of a side-hole perfused catheter passed through the papilla Vateri during duodenoscopy in patients with postcholecystectomy biliary pain not due to stones or inflammation of the biliary tree. The sphincter of Oddi showed in these cases a significantly higher basal tone than in controls with superimposed phasic pressure waves of high amplitude. The basal pressure of the common bile duct was also higher than in controls. These manometric findings may help differentiate the functional papillary stenosis from other causes of the postcholecystectomy pain syndrome and may be useful in settling the question of performing sphincterotomy in these patients.
Endoscopic manometry of the sphincter of Oddi and the pancreatic and biliary ducts in patients with chronic pancreatitis.	Sphincter of Oddi activity and the common bile duct (CBD) and pancreatic duct (PD) pressures were measured by means of endoscopic manometry in 15 patients (11 men and 4 women aged 18-77 (median, 40) years) with various degrees of chronic pancreatitis. Eleven of the 15 patients studied had an abnormal manometric pattern: elevated base-line pressures were seen in 8 patients, elevated duct pressures in 6 patients, abnormal peristalsis in 6 patients, and discoordination in 4 patients. There was no relation between the severity of chronic pancreatitis as shown by endoscopic retrograde pancreatography and the pancreatic function test and the manometric findings. However, a positive correlation between the sphincter of Oddi base-line pressure and the pancreatic duct pressure was found. It is concluded that manometric abnormalities are common findings in patients with chronic pancreatitis. Whether this is primary or secondary to the inflammatory process is still uncertain.
Post-cholecystectomy patients with "objective signs" of partial bile outflow obstruction: clinical characteristics, sphincter of Oddi manometry findings, and results of therapy.	Seventeen patients, 15 women and 2 men with upper abdominal pain categorized to biliary group I suspected sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, underwent thorough clinical evaluation including ERCP and endoscopic sphincter of Oddi manometry. All the patients were subsequently treated by endoscopic (n = 15) or surgical (n = 2) sphincterotomy. The mean age of patients studied was 62 years. They all had cholecystectomy several years previously (median, 18 years). At ERCP all patients showed a large common bile duct dilation (mean diameter, 18 mm) and delayed contrast drainage greater than 45 minutes. Sphincter of Oddi manometry, although abnormal in most patients, revealed normal sphincter of Oddi pressure in six patients (35%). Nonetheless, sphincterotomy resulted in relief of symptoms in all (mean follow-up, 28 months; range, 3 to 46 months), thus suggesting that their pain was indeed caused by the disordered sphincter of Oddi. These findings support the previous assumption that in symptomatic post-cholecystectomy patients the triad of elevated liver function tests, dilated common bile duct, and delayed contrast drainage at endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography indicates a definitive sphincter of Oddi abnormality. The normal sphincter of Oddi pressures in many of these patients are probably due to a different, noncompliant type of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Because these patients invariably benefit from sphincterotomy, sphincter of Oddi manometry in this category is not only unnecessary, but it may also be misleading.
Sphincter of Oddi disfunction in "idiopathic" recurrent pancreatitis]	As the pathogenesis of acute recurrent pancreatitis remains unclear in 30% of patients, it was the aim of this study to find out whether and how often changes in sphincter of Oddi motility is present in these patients and whether endoscopic treatment promises success.
Sphincter of Oddi.	It has been more than 100 years since Rugero Oddi described the sphincter that bears his name. In that time, investigators have determined its precise anatomy and they have demonstrated its independence from the duodenal muscle wall. Modern manometric techniques have defined the motor activity of the sphincter and motility abnormalities in patients presenting with either recurrent biliary-type pain or idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis. The term Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction is used to describe motility disorders of the sphincter. Clinical studies have shown that in patients with manometrically determined stenosis, division of the sphincter is associated with cure of the symptoms in more than 70%. For patients with biliary-type pain, division of the bile duct sphincter is all that is required, whereas in patients with idiopathic recurrent pancreatitis, division of the septum between the bile duct and the pancreatic duct is mandatory.
The utility of liver function test abnormalities concomitant with biliary symptoms in predicting a favorable response to endoscopic sphincterotomy in patients with presumed sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.	We sought to study the utility of liver function test abnormalities concomitant with biliary symptoms in predicting a favorable response to endoscopic sphincterotomy in patients with Geenen class II sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.
Hypertensive pancreatic sphincter.	Major papilla pancreatic sphincter dysfunction, a variant of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction, causes pancreatitis or pancreatic-type pain. Endoscopic manometry as performed at endoscopic retrograde cholangiography is the most commonly used method to identify sphincter dysfunction. Noninvasive testing, such as secretin-stimulated ultrasound analysis of duct diameter, is less reliable and of relatively low sensitivity. Two-thirds of patients with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction have elevated pancreatic basal sphincter pressure. Patients with suspected or documented sphincter of Oddi dysfunction may respond to biliary sphincterotomy alone, but warrant evaluation of their pancreatic sphincter if symptoms persist after therapy. Whether such pancreatic and biliary sphincters should be treated at the first treatment session is controversial. Pancreatic sphincterotomy is associated with a complication rate very similar to that of biliary sphincterotomy except that the pancreatitis rate is two- to fourfold higher. Prophylactic pancreatic stenting diminishes such pancreatitis by approximately 50%.
