Catabolic role of a three-component salicylate oxygenase from Sphingomonas yanoikuyae B1 in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon degradation.	Sphingomonas yanoikuyae B1 possesses several different multicomponent oxygenases involved in metabolizing aromatic compounds. Six different pairs of genes encoding large and small subunits of oxygenase iron-sulfur protein components have previously been identified in a gene cluster involved in the degradation of both monocyclic and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Insertional inactivation of one of the oxygenase large subunit genes, bphA1c, results in a mutant strain unable to grow on naphthalene, phenanthrene, or salicylate. The knockout mutant accumulates salicylate from naphthalene and 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid from phenanthrene indicating the loss of salicylate oxygenase activity. Complementation experiments verify that the salicylate oxygenase in S. yanoikuyae B1 is a three-component enzyme consisting of an oxygenase encoded by bphA2cA1c, a ferredoxin encoded by the adjacent bphA3, and a ferredoxin reductase encoded by bphA4 located over 25kb away. Expression of bphA3-bphA2c-bphA1c genes in Escherichia coli demonstrated the ability of salicylate oxygenase to convert salicylate to catechol and 3-, 4-, and 5-methylsalicylate to methylcatechols.
Elucidation of the ipso-substitution mechanism for side-chain cleavage of alpha-quaternary 4-nonylphenols and 4-t-butoxyphenol in Sphingobium xenophagum Bayram.	Recently we showed that degradation of several nonylphenol isomers with alpha-quaternary carbon atoms is initiated by ipso-hydroxylation in Sphingobium xenophagum Bayram (F. L. P. Gabriel, A. Heidlberger, D. Rentsch, W. Giger, K. Guenther, and H.-P. E. Kohler, J. Biol. Chem. 280:15526-15533, 2005). Here, we demonstrate with 18O-labeling experiments that the ipso-hydroxy group was derived from molecular oxygen and that, in the major pathway for cleavage of the alkyl moiety, the resulting nonanol metabolite contained an oxygen atom originating from water and not from the ipso-hydroxy group, as was previously assumed. Our results clearly show that the alkyl cation derived from the alpha-quaternary nonylphenol 4-(1-ethyl-1,4-dimethyl-pentyl)-phenol through ipso-hydroxylation and subsequent dissociation of the 4-alkyl-4-hydroxy-cyclohexadienone intermediate preferentially combines with a molecule of water to yield the corresponding alcohol and hydroquinone. However, the metabolism of certain alpha,alpha-dimethyl-substituted nonylphenols appears to also involve a reaction of the cation with the ipso-hydroxy group to form the corresponding 4-alkoxyphenols. Growth, oxygen uptake, and 18O-labeling experiments clearly indicate that strain Bayram metabolized 4-t-butoxyphenol by ipso-hydroxylation to a hemiketal followed by spontaneous dissociation to the corresponding alcohol and p-quinone. Hydroquinone effected high oxygen uptake in assays with induced resting cells as well as in assays with cell extracts. This further corroborates the role of hydroquinone as the ring cleavage intermediate during degradation of 4-nonylphenols and 4-alkoxyphenols.
Sphingomonas mucosissima sp. nov. and Sphingomonas desiccabilis sp. nov., from biological soil crusts in the Colorado Plateau, USA.	Two bacterial strains, CP173-2(T) and CP1D(T), were isolated from biological soil crusts (BSCs) collected in the Colorado Plateau, USA. Both strains were pigmented, Gram-negative, non-motile rods and produced abundant mucus. They contained C(16 : 0), C(18 : 1)omega7c and C(14 : 0) 2-OH as the predominant cellular fatty acids, ubiquinone-10 as the isoprenoid quinone and sphingoglycolipid. Based on the above characteristics, the isolates were assigned to the family Sphingomonadaceae; 16 rRNA gene signature nucleotides placed them within the genus Sphingomonas. Strains CP173-2(T) and CP1D(T) had a 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity of 96.7 % with each other and 91.6-98.9 % sequence similarity with other species in the genus, indicating that they represent two separate, and possibly novel, species. The closest species to strains CP173-2(T) and CP1D(T) were, respectively, Sphingomonas dokdonensis (98.9 % gene sequence similarity) and Sphingomonas panni (97.9 %). However, strain CP173-2(T) exhibited a DNA-DNA relatedness of only 32.5 % with the type strain of S. dokdonensis. Similarly, the DNA-DNA relatedness between strain CP1D(T) and the type strain of S. panni was only 18 %. Phenotypic characterization supported this low relatedness. On the basis of this evidence, we propose that the new strains represent two novel species, for which the names Sphingomonas mucosissima sp. nov. (with type strain CP173-2(T)=ATCC BAA-1239(T)=DSM 17494(T)) and Sphingomonas desiccabilis sp. nov. (with type strain CP1D(T)=ATCC BAA-1041(T)=DSM 16792(T)) are proposed.
