The toxic effect of deltamethrin on linyphiid and erigonid spiders in connection with ambient temperature, humidity, and predation.	The first part of this study concerns the effect of temperature and air humidity on the toxicity of deltamethrin to the erigonid Oedothorax apicatus. The second part concerns the effect of deltamethrin on behavior of linyphiids and erigonids with respect to their ability to escape from predators and to select between unfavorable (dry) and favorable (moist) habitat conditions. The toxic effect of deltamethrin was highest at the combination of high temperature and low air humidity. It was concluded that the spider's sensitivity to drought is increased by this pyrethroid. Affected spiders, however, are less able to select moist habitat conditions than unaffected ones. Walking speed of spiders was decreased by exposure to deltamethrin and their predation by carabid beetles was increased. It was concluded that the effect observed under field conditions is the result of a combination of neurological, physiological, and behavioral disturbance.
Effects of the metals lead and zinc on the growth, development, and reproduction of Pardosa astrigera (Araneae: Lycosidae).	Metal pollution is a serious environmental problem worldwide, and severely threatens biological diversity and human health. In order to investigate the effects of metals on a potential indicator species of wolf spider, Pardosa astrigera (Araneae: Lycosidae), 3rd-instar spiderlings were exposed to metals by using sublethal concentrations of PbCl₂ and ZnCl₂ solutions as their drinking water. The total durations of development of P. astrigera from the 3rd to 6th instars were significantly longer than that of the control group, and females showed a sharp reduction in total egg number. Body weights were significantly decreased in the mature spiders exposed to PbCl₂ solutions and ZnCl₂ solutions of high concentration (100 mM). These results suggest that detoxifying strategies deployed by P. astrigera against metal intoxication incur the costs of delayed development, and reduced growth and reproduction.
Octopamine and serotonin have opposite effects on antipredator behavior in the orb-weaving spider, Larinioides cornutus.	In this study, we experimentally elevated levels of octopamine and serotonin in an orb-weaving spider, and observed the effects on the antipredator behavior thanatosis (death feigning), activity level, and running speed. We found that octopamine significantly shortened the duration of thanatosis, and its effect wore off over 24 h. We also found that serotonin significantly lengthened thanatosis, but in this case, the effect persisted for over 24 h. Neither octopamine nor serotonin affected the general activity or running speed of the spiders. To our knowledge, this is the first study to directly explore the role of biogenic amines on a specific antipredator behavior in spiders. Given that spiders must be both aggressive toward prey, yet wary of predators, we believe that this system will be an outstanding model to explore connections between behavioral ecology and neurochemistry.
Metallothioneins and energy budget indices in cadmium and copper exposed spiders Agelena labyrinthica in relation to their developmental stage, gender and origin.	The aim of our studies was to explain the role of metallothioneins (MTs) in the neutralization of excessive amounts of metals (essential: copper (Cu) and toxic: cadmium (Cd)) and to describe the energy status in metal-exposed spiders Agelena labyrinthica in relation to its developmental stage, gender and origin. Juvenile, female and male spiders were collected from three variously polluted habitats, transferred to the laboratory and exposed to the metals in their diet. Cu and Cd accumulation in the body and exuviae, bioaccumulation factor, percentage of metallothionein positive cells, MT concentration, percentage of cells with depolarized mitochondria, ATP concentration and ADP/ATP ratio were measured and calculated. Cu appeared to be regulated and its excess is eliminated via, among others, the molting process, while Cd was rather accumulated by the spiders. The level of MTs increased significantly mainly in females exposed to both metals, irrespectively of the pollution degree of their site of origin, indicating a defensive role of the proteins. In general, even if both the MT level and the energy status indices were positively correlated with Cd and Cu concentrations in the spider body, the energy status of A. labyrinthica did not seem disturbed.
The existance of a winter diapause revealed by the effects of hormone treatment in the spider Pisaura mirabilis Cl. (Pisauridae)]	In the same experimental conditions, injections of ecdysterone induce moulting phenomena appearing after significantly different times according to whether the nymphs of Pisaura have been captured in October or January. The variable sensibility of the spiders towards an equal amount of hormones allows us to confirm the occurrence of winter-diapause in this Arachnid.
