An unusual anomaly : cervical spondylolysis in an adult]	A case of spondylolysis with exceptional involvement of the cervical spine is reported. The lesion turned out to be a defect in the pars interarticularis of a cervical vertebra. Such cases generally involve the sixth vertebra. Spondylolysis is asymptomatic more often than not. Positive diagnosis is supported by an analysis of the anatomic structures on radiographs and CT-scans. Differential diagnoses include congenital lesion (articular dysplasia) is always found, there is no argument allowing the assertion that cervical spondylolysis is a congenital condition rather than secondary to stress fractures.
Coexistent neurenteric cyst and enterogenous cyst. Further support for a common embryologic error.	The authors describe common embryological pathways responsible for coexistent neurenteric and enterogenous cysts in a patient with spinal dysraphism.
Uroneurological assessment of spina bifida cystica and occulta.	Spina bifida is a rare but well-documented congenital spinal anomaly comprising a cystic form, which appears in infancy, and an occult form, which appears in late childhood and in adulthood. Herein, we report the results of uroneurological assessment in patients with spina bifida cystica and occulta, with respect to diagnosis and management of the disorders.
Segmental spinal cord hypoplasia and meningocele with preservation of medullary function: case report.	In very rare dysraphic cases, it is not clear whether the primary abnormalities are in the neural elements, or in the bony elements.
Split-cord malformation and tethered cord associated with immature teratoma.	We report a case of a 12-month-old boy with split-cord malformation, tethered cord, and intradural immature teratoma containing immature nephroblastic tissue. He also had a horseshoe kidney.
Thoracolumbar intradural extramedullary bronchiogenic cyst.	Intradural extramedullary bronchiogenic cysts are rare findings. All five reported cases were located cervically or upper thoracically. To our knowledge, we describe the first case of an intraspinal bronchiogenic cyst in a thoracolumbar location. We present the case of a 41-year-old patient with a known spina bifida occulta who suffered from a continuous, sharp, and therapy-refractory pain in the left leg. Magnetic resonance imaging of the thoracic and lumbar vertebra revealed an intradural extramedullar mass at T12 to L1 level. After laminectomy T-12 through L-1/L-2 and longitudinal opening of the dura mater, the cystic mass was shown to be attached to the conus medullaris and the cauda equina, and therefore could be removed only partially. Histopathological examination revealed the diagnosis of bronchiogenic cyst. We therefore conclude that intradural extramedullary bronchiogenic cysts may appear also at thoracolumbar levels. Surgical resection can be achieved with good outcome.
Spina bifida occulta in epilepsy syndromes.	We studied radiographs of the lumbar vertebral column and sacral region for 182 patients with epilepsy for the presence of spina bifida occulta. Spina bifida occulta was twice as common in patients with idiopathic epilepsy as in patients with symptomatic epilepsy and twice as common in patients with idiopathic epilepsy as in the general population. We discuss the relationship between spina bifida occulta and idiopathic epilepsy.
Primary lumbosacral Wilms tumor associated with diastematomyelia and occult spinal dysraphism. A report of a rare case and a short review of literature.	The occurrence of an extrarenal Wilms tumor in the lumbosacral region is an extremely uncommon condition.
The patient with symptoms following resection of a lipomyelomeningocele: do increases in the lumbosacral angle indicate a tethered spinal cord?	The angulation of the sacrum is easily measured. The authors have previously reported on patients who were symptomatic with a diagnosis of myelomeningocele who were found to have changes in their lumbosacral angle (LSA) corresponding to the onset of symptoms indicative of a tethered spinal cord. The aim of this study was to verify this same finding in a group of patients with occult spinal dysraphism (that is, closed neural tube defect).
Location of spina bifida occulta and ultrasonographic bladder abnormalities predict the outcome of treatment for primary nocturnal enuresis in children.	We examined whether the existence of spina bifida occulta or ultrasonographic bladder abnormalities was related to the outcome of treatment for primary nocturnal enuresis in children.
Tethered cord due to spina bifida occulta presenting in adulthood: a tricenter review of 61 patients.	Children with spina bifida occulta require early surgery to prevent neurological deficits. The treatment of patients with a congenitally tethered cord who present in adulthood remains controversial.
MR evaluation of spinal dermal sinus tracts in children.	The MR studies of seven pediatric patients with surgically proved spinal dorsal dermal sinuses were reviewed retrospectively. Five of the seven had associated congenital tumors (three epidermoids, two dermoids). The subcutaneous portions of the spinal tracts and intramedullary portions of tumor were easily identified with the use of standard spin-echo techniques. However, except for limited areas where they were lined by fat, the intraspinal portions of the dermal sinuses were poorly seen. Moreover, diffuse subarachnoid tumor was missed in two patients. Three-dimensional Fourier transform gradient-echo acquisition using a volumetric radiofrequency pulse as a "spoiler" proved to be helpful in evaluating these abnormalities. Optimal radiologic workup of patients with dorsal dermal sinuses awaits the development of new MR imaging sequences. For now, heavily T1-weighted MR sequences should be obtained and supplemented with sonography in infants and with CT myelography in older children.
Human tail: nature's aberration.	Human tail refers to a congenital cutaneous appendix protruding from the lumbosacral region. It is usually associated with an underlying spina bifida occulta, a form of spinal dysraphism. A contiguous fibrolipoma can sometimes be seen extending from the subcutaneous portion of the tail into the inferior spinal cord, resulting in tethered cord syndrome. Management of such lesions includes complete neurologic examination and magnetic resonance imaging. Early diagnosis and microsurgical intervention can prevent development or progression of severe neurologic defects in later life.
Tethered cervical spinal cord. Case report.	A case of congenital tethered cervical spinal cord is presented in a young adult. Metrizamide computerized tomography was the most useful imaging technique for identifying the tethered spinal cord. Intraoperative somatosensory evoked potentials correlated well with clinical improvement following surgery.
A case of neurogenic bladder caused by spinal cord traction in childhood. Diagnostic and therapeutic aspects]	The diagnostic and therapeutic aspects of a pediatric case of tethered cord syndrome are described. The urological symptoms were of primary importance; bladder dysfunction was confirmed urodynamically; voiding cystourethrography showed trabeculation and elongation of bladder with distal sphincter obstruction and left vesicoureteral reflux. The bladder dysfunction was managed satisfactorily with pharmacological therapy and clean intermittent self-catheterization. Nuclear magnetic resonance demonstrated a tethered spinal cord with lipoma of cauda equina. The importance of neuroradiology is emphasized in order to establish an early and precise diagnosis. Early neurosurgery is justified by the need to avoid any progressive and severe lower extremity deficit and by the high frequency of urological improvement in cases treated with spinal operation. However, in this case, clinical and pathological findings suggested to defer any surgical intervention.
Assessment and management of the lower extremity in myelodysplasia.	The goal in managing the lower extremity in a child with spina bifida is to achieve a pattern of development as near normal as possible. Lower limb deformities are produced by muscle imbalance, weight-bearing, and the postural effects of gravity. At any point in time, the management of the lower extremities will depend on the child's general development. Lower limb paralysis, hydrocephalus, bladder infections, hydromyelia, and Arnold Chiari malformation, all contribute to developmental delay. A child's potential for mobility varies with the severity of the motor and sensory deficit. Surgery is done to correct deformity, provide joint stability, and improve joint mobility. The results of surgery will be compromised if the child is not neurologically stable, or if appropriate therapy and orthotic care are not available. Muscle imbalance produces the problem of deformity and instability of the hip. Deformity must be corrected if the child is to assume an upright posture. Instability is of concern only in those children with a strong quadriceps muscle. Hip surgery for instability should be limited to one procedure, which must achieve a stable concentric reduction and balance the muscle forces about the hip. The common deformities seen at the knee are recurvatum, knee flexion contractures, and genu valgum. Most knee deformities can be corrected by soft tissue procedures. Well-designed orthoses rocker sole shoes, and appropriate gait training help prevent knee deformities. The goal in managing foot deformities is to achieve a plantigrade foot with stable skin. Whenever there is a problem with sensation, concentrated pressure in one area of a deformed foot will lead to skin breakdown. Surgical procedures must completely correct deformity and restore muscle imbalance. After surgery, meticulous orthotic care is required to prevent skin breakdown and avoid loss of correction. The orthopedist has a significant role in helping a child with spina bifida to achieve a pattern of development as near normal as possible. He or she must work in concert with a team of professionals and realize that orthopedic surgery is but an incident in the habilitative program. This rather chatty narrative is based on spina bifida care experience, in Sheffield, Toronto, and Chicago.
Webbed neck associated with other developmental defects]	In patients with a combination of congenital webbed deformity of the neck with the Klippel-Weil syndrome, muscular hyperplasia of lateral masses of the neck and latent cerebrospinal hernias favorable cosmetic results could be obtained by an operative dissection of excessive soft tissues including the muscular and cyst ectopic cerebrospinal membrane tissues.
Incidence and distribution of renal anomalies in patients with neural tube defects.	In 190 patients with neural tube defects the sensory levels to pin prick were compared with the incidence and distribution of congenital renal anomalies. 17 such anomalies comprised 3 examples of renal agenesis, 5 horseshoe kidneys, 8 ureteral duplications and one simple ureterocele. The pattern of anomalies showed that renal agenesis was associated with a sensory level in the dermatomes T5-8, horseshoe kidneys with T9-L1 and duplications predominantly with the sacral dermatomes.
Cutaneous signs of spinal dysraphism. Report of a patient with a tail-like lipoma and review of 200 cases in the literature.	The term "spinal dysraphism" was coined in 1940 by Dr Lichtenstein to designate incomplete fusion or malformations of structures in the dorsal midline of the back, particularly congenital abnormalities of the vertebral column and spinal cord. Raphes develop on the face and head, brancheal arches, sternum, and spinal column. When dysraphism occurs in these sites, failure of closure of fontanelles, cleft lip and palate, brancheal cysts, and abnormalities of the ribs and spine result. A review of 200 cases of occult spinal dysraphism showed the condition to be more common in female patient and to be associated with cutaneous signs in more than 50% of instances. The age at which neurologic symptoms appeared in recorded cases is from birth to 76 years, the average being three years. A case of spinal dysraphism with a tail-like cutaneous structure is presented. The cutaneous manifestations accompanying spinal dysraphism that may lead to early recognition of this syndrome and early institution of treatment are discussed.
The spinal disorders in diastrophic dwarfism.	Of seven patients with diastrophic dwarfism, all had cervical spina bifida occulta. Two had cervical kyphosis, which was severe in one. Scoliosis was present in five patients and was always progressive. Lumbar lordosis was seen in all seven patients and was not progressive.
Lumbosacral lipomas with spina bifida. Anatomo-clinical correlations. Therapeutic results]	From 1971 to 1982, the authors saw 41 patients who presented lumbo sacral lipomas with spina bifida; 9 remained outpatients and had regular clinical follow up; the other 32 were operated on; 1 was lost sight of, shortly after the operation. 40 patients were then regularly followed; of these, 15 (37%) developed neurological deficits (14 before and 1 long after surgery). Intraspinal lipomas were classified into 2 groups: group I (18 cases), when the lipomas displaced but did not include the lumbo sacral roots; group II (14 cases) when it included most or all of these roots. Despite an inevitably less satisfactory liberation of the spinal cord in the group II, post operative results were not significantly different in the 2 groups. Comparing the post operative results of this series to others in the literature, the authors come to the following 3 conclusions: 1) these operations are benign; 2) they are all the more effective when the neurological deficits are either recent or evolutive, and 3) they protect most of the patients from eventual neurological deterioration. Therefore the authors agree that patients with lumbo sacral lipomas should be operated on at the onset of neurological deficits but also recommend early intervention, even in the absence of any neurological disturbance.
The association of hydrocephalus and Arnold--Chiari malformation with spina bifida in the fetus.	Twenty-one fetuses with spina bifida and twenty apparently normal fetuses of between 14--23 weeks gestation were examined for the presence of hydrocephalus and Arnold--Chiari malformation. Sacral, lumbo-sacral, lumbar, thoraco-lumbo-sacral and thoraco-lumbar lesions were found. Some were closed, some were open. The amount of neural tissue at the site of the lesion was very variable. In three cases, diastematomyelia was found. The heads of spina bifida fetuses were not enlarged. Hydrocephalus was found in eleven of them and the Arnold--Chiari malformation in twelve. In nine fetuses the abnormalities co-existed. Hydrocephalic brain showed depression of the tentorium, abnormalities in the corpus callosum and absence of the lateral fissure. The more cephalad and extensive the spinal lesion, the more likely it was to be accompanied by brain abnormalities. Isolated sacral defects were not associated either with hydrocephalus or with the Arnold--Chiari malformation. Pathological changes in the brain occurred in the presence of both open and closed spinal lesions and were apparently unrelated to fetal age. No evidence was found as to the sequence in which these brain abnormalities appeared.
Spinal dysraphism in the cervical and dorsal regions in childhood.	Spinal dysraphism entirely confined to the cervical or dorsal levels is uncommon. In a large series affecting all levels, only 26 such cases that required operation were found. These are described in order to determine their particular features which include a high incidence of expanding lesions (dermoid cyst and neurenteric cyst) and are therefore associated with a much higher risk of morbidity than dysraphism, at lower levels.
Association of imperforate anus with occult spinal dysraphism.	Neurological deficits may occur in some children with imperforate anus produced by unrecognized spinal cord anomalies amenable to neurosurgical correction. Although this association has been well described, its frequency has not been defined. The authors prospectively studied 45 infants with imperforate anus from 1985 to 1992 to establish the frequency of this association. Eighteen infants (40%) had high imperforate anus, 24 had low imperforate anus (53%), and 3 had anal stenosis (7%). All underwent radiographic spinal cord imaging in early infancy, which consisted of radiographs (45), ultrasound (26), magnetic resonance imaging (29), computed tomography (1), and myelography (1). Thirty-three percent of the patients with imperforate anus had bony sacral abnormalities. Eight infants were discovered to have spinal cord abnormalities. Two of those infants had obvious myelomeningocele at birth, and 6 infants (14%) had occult spinal dysraphism consisting of tethered cord with or without associated lipoma of the cord. There was no correlation between the presence of tethered cord and the gender of the infants, the type of malformation (high versus low imperforate anus), or the presence of sacral dysplasia (Fisher's exact test). Five of the infants who were found to have tethered cord underwent neurosurgical intervention and repair of the defect, and 1 infant was followed up clinically. The mean follow-up time of all the infants was 2.5 +/- 0.9 (+/- SD) years. No neurological sequelae occurred in the infants who had surgical correction. The frequency of occult spinal dysraphism with imperforate anus was 14%. It was independent of the type of imperforate anus or the coexistence of bony sacral anomalies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A new technique of osteotomy for femoral varisation in the management of hip dislocation and paralytic subluxation of the hip]	Severe valgus deformity of the upper femur is a frequent feature of the unstable paralytic hip. Thus, the insertion of the osteosynthesis material during a varization osteotomy can be technical demanding. Risks and benefits of a modified femoral varization osteotomy were evaluated in a retrospective follow-up study.
The tethered cord syndrome : a review of causes]	We present eighteen cases with Tethered cord syndrome (TCS). They were eleven adults and eight children. There were eight cases with surgical interventions performed in other centers during the newborn period for different types of spinal disraphisms. Clinical onset was insidious in 88% of the cases, and in 12% of the cases was acute, due to a precipitating factor. The main clinical findings were neurological skeletal , urological and cutaneous alterations in variable frequencies. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was the best diagnostic test. Urodynamic studies in patients with urological alterations were abnormal and they helped to establish additional pharmacological treatment. After surgery 88% of the patients had an improvement or an arrest in the progression of the symptoms. Patients with shorter duration of the symptoms (less than 2 years) had a better prognosis.
Tethered cord syndrome accompanied by unilateral muscle atrophy in the calf muscle.	A 40-year-old man developed slowly progressive muscle atrophy in his calf muscle. The patient became aware of asymmetry of his right big toe during in his teens; muscle atrophy was revealed at the age of 25 years. Multi-image examinations revealed "tethered cord syndrome" with spina bifida occulta. Spinal magnetic resonance image revealed a pathogenetic mechanism of asymmetry of muscle atrophy in the calf muscle. This suggested that spinal MRI imaging is one of the most useful diagnostic methods for this disease.
Rare coexistence of congenital malformations in adult.	Coexistence of several developmental abnormalities in adults is very rare and often asymptomatic. In many instances appearance of clinical symptomatology is evoked by some additional factors, not related directly with the basic pathological process. In a 21-year-old oligophrenic man a progressive paresis of inferior limbs appeared in the course of the upper respiratory tract infection. During 5 days of hospitalization transient peripheral paresis of the right facial nerve, tetraplegia, sphincter and respiratory disturbances occurred. Guillain-Barré syndrome and subarachnoid hemorrhage were diagnosed. On autopsy hemorrhagic focus in the medulla and in the cervical and upper thoracic parts of the spinal cord was found. Microscopic examination revealed hypocellularity of the 2nd and 4th layers of the temporal cortex, presence of the central canal within the brain stem, and hemorrhagic focus in the medulla. Two malformations in spinal cord were revealed: intraspinal angioma extending from the C2 to the Th6 segments and diastematomyelia within Th11 and lumbar segments. Diastematomyelia, cortical hypocellularity and angioma composed of fetal, lacunar artery- and vein-like vessels, are related with different periods of the ontogenic development. Coexistence of these malformations indicates prolonged action of the pathogenic factor(s), both in the embryonic and fetal life.
Morphological changes in the peripheral nervous system in the case of congenital malformations of the spinal cord.	A 21-year-old oligophrenic man developed after upper respiratory tract infection, quadriplegia with sphincter and respiratory disturbances. Lumbar punction revealed subarachnoid bleeding and elevated cerebrospinal protein level. Guillain-Barré syndrome and subarachnoid hemorrhage were diagnosed. At autopsy intraspinal angioma (C2-D6) and diastematomyelia (D11-lumbar segments) were found. Beside, intraspinal hemorrhage was present. Morphological examination of posterior and anterior spinal roots as well as peripheral nerves was done. Spheroids, axonal degeneration and prominent loss of myelinated fibers were observed in the proximal parts of the spinal roots. Axonal degeneration of myelinated fibers and regenerated fibers were noted in the distal parts of spinal roots and in peripheral nerves. Abnormal, fetal-like vessels were present in the spinal roots. Two mechanisms of acute and chronic changes (transneuronal and Wallerian degeneration) are discussed.
Faun tail and sacral hemangioma associated with occult spinal dysraphism]	Hemangiomas are the most frequent skin tumor of childhood. Usually, a "wait and see" policy is adopted. However, a sacral hemangioma may reveal occult neurodysraphism.
A split cord malformation.	This report describes a case of split cord malformation without a septum. A 2-year-old boy presented with a 3-month history of neurogenic bladder. MRI did not show any apparent abnormality around the conus medullaris. However, CT myelography clearly demonstrated the presence of a split filum terminale. The patient underwent laminectomy of L1-5 laminas and untethering of the split filum terminale. CT myelography was superior to MRI in diagnosing split cord malformation in this case. As MRI is currently regarded as the superior imaging modality, this reported case may have been missed because the pathology was not apparent on MRI.
Bladder dysfunction and neurological disability at presentation in closed spina bifida.	Congenital closed spinal anomalies are associated with distortion of the spinal cord, the spinal nerve roots or both, and can result in neurological abnormalities of the lower limbs and neuropathic bladder dysfunction. This study reports clinical and videourodynamic findings in a group of 51 patients with closed spina bifida. The mean age at presentation to a specialist neurological clinic was 3.3 years. Twenty five patients presented with urinary tract disturbance and 12 presented with neurological problems. Thirty three had normal neurological examination or only minor objective signs, 21 had normal renal tract ultrasonography but only two patients had normal videourodynamics, with 31 having two or more abnormalities during this assessment. Neither clinical neurological assessment nor the history of voiding behaviour are reliable indicators of bladder dysfunction and subsequent risk of renal damage. Therefore, all patients with a known or suspected diagnosis of closed spina bifida should have videourodynamic assessment.
The significance of associated malformations of the central nervous system in myelomeningocele]	Neural tube defects are the most frequent congenital structural malformations in Norway. Approximately half of these are myelomeningocele. Infants with myelomeningocele frequently have hydrocephalus at birth. Problems with intracranial pressure may as well develop later. There are several reports on pathological corpus callosum and an increasing number of reports on cognitive problems in patients with myelomeningocele. Most patients with myelomeningocele have a tethered spinal cord, and some have syringomyelia. Chiari malformation type II is a malformation of the skull and brainstem which is frequently observed in individuals with myelomeningocele. Chiari malformation may cause severe respiratory problems in infants. Chiari malformation, tethered cord as well as syringomyelia are associated with a range of neurological problems which may progress in adulthood. Surgical intervention may improve the situation. Anaesthesia may induce neurological complications in individuals with Chiari malformation or syringomyelia. Since pregnancy and childbirth are associated with complications, women with myelomeningocele should be examined before they become pregnant. Children and adults with myelomeningocele should routinely undergo MRI examinations of caput and the spinal cord to clarify their anatomical situation.
