Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilizes bone marrow-derived cells into injured spinal cord and promotes functional recovery after compression-induced spinal cord injury in mice.	The aim of the present study was to elucidate the effects of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mediated mobilization of bone marrow-derived stem cells on the injured spinal cord. Bone marrow cells of green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic mice were transplanted into lethally irradiated C57BL/6 mice. Four weeks after bone marrow transplantation, spinal cord injury was produced by a static load (20 g, 5 min) at T8 level. G-CSF (200 microg/kg/day) was injected subcutaneously for 5 days. Immunohistochemistry for GFP and cell lineage markers was performed to evaluate G-CSF-mediated mobilization of bone marrow-derived cells into injured spinal cord. Hind limb locomotor recovery was assessed for 6 weeks. Immunohistochemistry revealed that G-CSF increased the number of GFP-positive cells in injured spinal cord, indicating that bone marrow-derived cells were mobilized and migrated into injured spinal cord. The numbers of double positive cells for GFP and glial markers were larger in the G-CSF treated mice than in the control mice. Luxol Fast Blue staining revealed that G-CSF promoted white matter sparing. G-CSF treated mice showed significant recovery of hind limb function compared to that of the control mice. In conclusion, G-CSF showed efficacy for spinal cord injury treatment through mobilization of bone marrow-derived cells.
Treatment of non-rheumatoid occipitocervical instability. Internal fixation with the Hartshill-Ransford loop.	We performed posterior fixation with a Hartshill-Ransford contoured loop in 43 patients with instability at the craniocervical junction. No external bracing was used. Fifteen patients had congenital malformations, ten had tumours, seven had 'bone-softening' conditions (such as osteogenesis imperfecta), five had suffered complicated fractures, three had occipito-C1-C2 hypermobility due to lax ligaments and three had severe degenerative spondylosis with pseudotumours of the transverse ligament. Twenty-nine patients had transoral decompression of the cord before fixation. In most cases, cancellous bone grafts taken from the iliac crest were used to induce fusion; in nine very ill patients, no bone graft was used. In the whole series there was no instance of construct failure, broken wire or laminar fracture. The best results were achieved in patients with tumours or bone-softening conditions. No patient with normal neurology deteriorated after surgery but seven had worse neurological deficits after operation than before. Neck stiffness caused half the patients to change their lifestyle.
