Multicentric anaplastic astrocytoma in a child.	We report a rare case of anaplastic astrocytoma with multicentric central nervous system lesions in a 10-year-old girl presenting with a 1-month history of progressive headache and paraparesis. Neurological examination upon admission revealed papilloedema of both eyes and grade 2/5 weakness of both legs. Cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple tumour foci within the suprasellar region, cerebellar hemisphere, cervical and thoracic cords. After an uneventful laminectomy and excision of the tumour at the T8-9 level, a significant improvement of motor function was observed. The histological diagnosis was anaplastic astrocytoma based on the WHO classification. The patient received postoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and was able to walk with the aid of auxiliary crutches. Despite being an uncommon disease in children and being associated with an unfavourable long-term outcome, early diagnosis and appropriate management of this condition may contribute to reduced patient morbidity.
Coexistent intramedullary spinal cord and choroidal metastases in ovarian cancer.	Involvement of intramedullary spinal cord and the choroid by ovarian cancer is rare, and coexistence of metastases at these sites is extremely rare and has never been reported. This condition rapidly progresses to a neurological emergency; however, an efficient standard treatment method is not available for this rare condition. The case presented herein is of a female patient with stage II, poorly differentiated serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary. She presented with blindness and other neurologic complaints during the course of treatment for a recurrence at 50 months after the primary surgical treatment for the tumor. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed intramedullary spinal cord metastasis and choroidal metastasis, coexisting with multiple brain metastases and intra-abdominal lesions. Neurological emergency was prevented by administering whole-brain irradiation therapy followed by systemic chemotherapy. Early diagnosis and multidisciplinary treatment, including radiotherapy and chemotherapy, may offer good palliation for such unusual metastases of ovarian cancer.
Long-term evaluation of a CNS prophylaxis trial--treatment comparisons and outcome after CNS relapse in childhood ALL: a report from the Childrens Cancer Study Group.	The current status of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who had developed CNS disease while being treated on protocol CCG-101 was investigated. Seven hundred thirty-six eligible patients were entered into the study between June 1972 and July 1974. All children who were greater than 18 months of age were eligible for randomization to a CNS prophylaxis trial for which one regimen gave only a short course of intrathecal methotrexate (IT MTX) as prophylaxis. All other regimens included radiation therapy as prophylaxis. Current follow-up (median, greater than 10 years) shows no significant difference by standard life-table analysis for ultimate survival, although a substantial excess of CNS episodes occurred on the IT MTX regimen. Of the 675 patients who completed induction therapy and achieved remission in the study, 100 (14.8%) developed CNS disease as the first evidence of relapse. Fifty-five of these 100 had no subsequent CNS episodes. Only 17 of these 55 patients are surviving without further relapses since the CNS episode. The median time to isolated CNS relapse was 457 days. Time to the initial CNS relapse was found to be the most important factor for predicting outcome. Thirty-five of the 55 patients with isolated relapse subsequently relapsed in the bone marrow, and of these, 32 have died. Twenty patients of the 100 with CNS disease as the first evidence of relapse developed two episodes of CNS involvement and 17 of these 20 patients subsequently relapsed in the bone marrow; only one patient survived. Twenty-five patients of the 100 have shown a pattern of chronic CNS disease with multiple CNS relapses. The overall disease-free survival for the 100 patients who developed one or more relapse was only 16%. These data demonstrate that the occurrence of a CNS relapse is an indicator of poor subsequent outcome. Comparison of results of groups receiving different CNS prophylaxis required careful consideration of the entire pattern of relapses and mortality.
Use of nitrosourea derivatives in the treatment of patients with Hodgkin's disease with lesions of the central nervous system]	The study deals with the effectiveness of nitrosourea derivatives (nitrosomethylurea and CCNU) used for monochemotherapy or polychemotherapy in combination with vinca alkaloids, natulan and prednisolone in 22 patients suffering Hodgkin's disease with spinal cord and intracranial involvement. Complete regression of neurologic symptoms was seen in 61.1% of patients with spinal cord dysfunction and in 3 of 4 cases of brain involvement. The effectiveness of nitrosomethylurea-based regimens did not differ-significantly from those including CCNU. The longest complete remission obtained was 124+ months. No relationship was found between the type, degree and duration of symptoms, on the one hand, and the likelihood of achieving complete remission, on the other.
PCNU and recurrent childhood brain tumors.	PCNU, the latest nitrosourea analogue to be subjected to clinical trials, held promise as a superior chemotherapy agent for brain tumors because of more favorable biochemical and cytotoxic characteristics in laboratory studies. Thirty-nine children with a variety of recurrent primary CNS tumors, all of whom had evaluable disease, participated in a phase II PCNU trial. Their mean age was 9.7 (3-20) years. PCNU was administered as a 2 hour intravenous infusion in one of 2 dose schedules at 6-7 week intervals; 100-125 mg/m2 for minimally treated patients and 70-90 mg/m2 for heavily treated patients. Response was assessed after 2 courses of chemotherapy after attempting to taper the steroid dose. The overall objective response rate was 18% (7/39) for a mean of 5.9 months (2+ -12). Only partial responses were observed. Disease-specific responses rates were: brainstem glioma--18% (3/17); cerebral glioma--27% (3/12); ependymoma--1/1; and primitive neuroectodermal tumors--(0/9) including 5 medulloblastomas, 2 pineoblastomas and 3 cerebral primitive neuroectodermal tumors. Toxicity was primarily hematologic and clinically significant thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000 mm3) was encountered in 30/38 (79%) patient trials. Modest activity of PCNU in recurrent childhood gliomas is confirmed. Our response rates, using objective CT criteria, are somewhat lower than those reported for BCNU and CCNU. Because of comparable hematologic toxicity and efficacy, intravenous PCNU does not appear to offer a clinical advantage to existing nitrosoureas for children with recurrent brain tumors using a 2 hour intravenous infusion schedule.
Reduction in central nervous system leukemia with a pharmacokinetically derived intrathecal methotrexate dosage regimen.	During the period 1976-1981, 3241 children were enrolled on three major studies of acute lymphoblastic leukemia by participating institutions of the Children's Cancer Study Group. Each study included a different method of central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis: (1) standard therapy with cranial irradiation, 2400 rads, and intrathecal methotrexate at 12 mg/m2 six times during consolidation (CCG-141); (2) a modification of CCG-141 in which the intrathecal methotrexate was initiated during induction (CCG-141A); and (3) a reduced cranial irradiation dose of 1800 rads with intrathecal methotrexate given at the same frequency as a CCG-141A, with or without maintenance intrathecal methotrexate, but with a dosage regimen derived from CNS volume considerations rather than based on body surface area (CCG-160 series). Strategy 3, a change in the intrathecal methotrexate dosage, has resulted in the lowest incidence of CNS leukemia to date (p less than 0.007). The cumulative 3-yr CNS relapse rate has decreased from 8%-10% to 2%-5% in average-risk patients (p less than 0.02; life table estimate) and from 23%-27% to 6% in high-risk patients (p less than 0.0002; life table estimate), despite a reduction in the cranial irradiation dose from 2400 to 1800 rads. Maintenance intrathecal chemotherapy has had a marginal effect among patients randomized to receive this additional therapy (p = 0.06). The overall outcome has been an increase in the continuous complete remission rate (p = 0.04) but not in the estimated 3-yr continuous hematologic remission or survival rates.
Craniospinal irradiation for trilateral retinoblastoma following ocular irradiation.	A case study is presented. Craniospinal radiotherapy and a three-fold pineal boost for trilateral retinoblastoma were delivered to a patient previously irradiated for ocular retinoblastoma. The availability of CT-based three-dimensional treatment planning provided the capability of identifying the previously irradiated volume as a three-dimensional anatomic structure and of designing a highly customized set of treatment beams that minimized reirradiation of that volume.
A double-blind study of L-threonine in patients with spinal spasticity.	We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of oral L-threonine at 6 g/day in patients with spinal spasticity. Muscle tone from selected leg muscles, measured by the Ashworth Scale, was the principal measure of spasticity and was evaluated before and at the end of each treatment period. A 10% reduction in Ashworth score was regarded as a positive response to a treatment. The results were analyzed sequentially, patients being classified as threonine-responders, placebo-responders or non-responders (those who responded to both treatments by either less or greater than 10%) and a level of significance of p = 0.05 was chosen. The trial concluded in favour of L-threonine after 33 patients. Side-effects were minimal. L-threonine has a modest but definite antispastic effect, and its possible role in modifying spinal glycinergic transmission is discussed.
Chemosensitive epidural spinal cord disease in non-Hodgkins lymphoma.	Epidural spinal cord disease (ESCD), an infrequent complication of systemic non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL), can occur at diagnosis or at relapse, and is usually treated with radiotherapy, or infrequently surgical decompression. We retrospectively analyzed 140 patients with intermediate-grade NHL (IG-NHL) who were treated on a dose-intense protocol using doxorubicin, vincristine, and high-dose cyclophosphamide (NHL-15). There were seven episodes of ESCD in six (4.3%) patients. Five episodes were asymptomatic at presentation; one patient had back pain, leg numbness, and tingling; and one had radicular pain and mild leg weakness. None had malignant cells in the CSF. One patient received high-dose dexamethasone after laminectomy for diagnostic biopsy; otherwise, dexamethasone was used only as an anti-emetic prior to chemotherapy. Patients who developed ESCD at diagnosis received the planned course of NHL-15 chemotherapy as treatment for ESCD, and those treated with NHL-15 who developed ESCD at relapse were given a regimen containing ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (ICE). After chemotherapy alone, five of seven episodes showed radiographic resolution of ESCD and improvement of neurologic deficits. One patient received consolidation radiotherapy (2,700 cGy) to the spine after ICE for relapsed ESCD and had a complete response. One patient had progression of systemic lymphoma and ESCD despite chemotherapy. These data suggest that chemotherapy may be effective as initial treatment of ESCD in IG-NHL and may reduce the potential complications of spinal surgery and radiotherapy.
A cutaneous agranular CD2- CD4+ CD56+ "lymphoma": report of two cases and review of the literature.	We report 2 cases of agranular CD2- CD4+ CD56+ non-Hodgkin lymphoma in which skin seemed to be the primary site. A 21-year-old woman's initial symptom was a skin nodule on the right cheek. She also had tumors in the nasopharynx, and the bone marrow subsequently became involved. No lymphadenopathy was present. She experienced complete remission after dose-intensified therapy with cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunomycin, vincristine [Oncovin], and prednisone (CHOP), but the disease relapsed in the central nervous system 6 months later. An 81-year-old man experienced an 11-month history of skin nodules in the left forearm. On admission, he had a bone marrow infiltration of lymphoma cells. He died of pneumonia during chemotherapy. The malignant cells of the 2 patients had similar morphologic features, with a monocytoid nucleus and no cytoplasmic granules. The cells in both cases showed a unique phenotype: CD2-, CD3-, CD4+, CD8-, CD13-, CD14-, CD34-, CD16-, CD56+, CD57-, HLA-DR-positive. Staining for peroxidase and alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase was negative. The T-cell receptor beta, gamma, delta, IgH, kappa, lambda genes were of germ line configurations. The DNA of Epstein-Barr virus was not detected from the bone marrow cells by polymerase chain reaction. Only 3 other cases with similar phenotypes have been reported; all had skin lesions. Although the origin of these cells remains unknown, we propose that this is a distinct clinicopathologic entity.
Intramedullary metastases of bronchogenic carcinoma. Two cases]	Intramedullary metastases are uncommon. We report two cases in patients with small cell bronchogenic cancer. The clinical diagnosis was supported by T1 magnetic resonance imaging after gadolinium injection. A unique medullary metastasis associated with other metastatic localizations was observed in the first patient and multiple intramedullary metastases alone in the second. These secondary intramedullary localizations were highly sensitive to chemotherapy after the first monthly cure in the first patient and after the third in the second patient. We emphasize the importance of chemotherapy in such cases, usually associated with focal radiotherapy.
