When chromosomal dynamics control cell division]	In most tumor cells a chromosomal instability leads to an abnormal chromosome number (aneuploidy). The mitotic checkpoint is essential for ensuring accurate chromosome segregation by allowing mitotic delay in response to a spindle defect. This checkpoint delays the onset of anaphase until all the chromosomes are correctly aligned on the mitotic spindle. When unattached kinetochores are present, the metaphase/anaphase transition is not allowed and the time available for chromosome-microtubule capture increases. Genes required for this delay were first identified in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (the MAD, BUB and MPS1 genes) and subsequently, homologs have been identified in higher eucaryotes showing that the spindle checkpoint pathway is highly conserved. The checkpoint functions by preventing an ubiquitin ligase called the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC) from ubiquitinylating proteins whose destruction is required for anaphase onset.
Cell cycle-dependent degradation of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae spindle motor Cin8p requires APC(Cdh1) and a bipartite destruction sequence.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cin8p belongs to the BimC family of kinesin-related motor proteins that are essential for spindle assembly. Cin8p levels were found to oscillate in the cell cycle due in part to a high rate of degradation imposed from the end of mitosis through the G1 phase. Cin8p degradation required the anaphase-promoting complex ubiquitin ligase and its late mitosis regulator Cdh1p but not the early mitosis regulator Cdc20p. Cin8p lacks a functional destruction box sequence that is found in the majority of anaphase-promoting complex substrates. We carried out an extensive mutagenesis study to define the cis-acting sequence required for Cin8p degradation in vivo. The C terminus of Cin8p contains two elements required for its degradation: 1) a bipartite destruction sequence composed of a KEN-box plus essential residues within the downstream 22 amino acids and 2) a nuclear localization signal. The bipartite destruction sequence appears in other BimC kinesins as well. Expression of nondegradable Cin8p showed very mild phenotypic effects, with an increase in the fraction of mitotic cells with broken spindles.
pkl1(+)and klp2(+): Two kinesins of the Kar3 subfamily in fission yeast perform different functions in both mitosis and meiosis.	We have identified Klp2p, a new kinesin-like protein (KLP) of the KAR3 subfamily in fission yeast. The motor domain of this protein is 61% identical and 71% similar to Pkl1p, another fission yeast KAR3 protein, yet the two enzymes are different in behavior and function. Pkl1p is nuclear throughout the cell cycle, whereas Klp2p is cytoplasmic during interphase. During mitosis Klp2p enters the nucleus where it forms about six chromatin-associated dots. In metaphase-arrested cells these migrate back and forth across the nucleus. During early anaphase they segregate with the chromosomes into two sets of about three, fade, and are replaced by other dots that form on the spindle interzone. Neither klp2(+) nor pkl1(+) is essential, and the double deletion is also wild type for both vegetative and sexual reproduction. Each deletion rescues different alleles of cut7(ts), a KLP that contributes to spindle formation and elongation. When either or both deletions are combined with a dynein deletion, vegetative growth is normal, but sexual reproduction fails: klp2 Delta,dhc1-d1 in karyogamy, pkl1 Delta,dhc1-d1 in multiple phases of meiosis, and the triple deletion in both. Deletion of Klp2p elongates a metaphase-arrested spindle, but pkl1 Delta shortens it. The anaphase spindle of klp2 Delta becomes longer than the cell, leading it to curl around the cell's ends. Apparently, Klp2p promotes spindle disassembly and contributes to the behavior of mitotic chromosomes.
Roles of the fission yeast formin for3p in cell polarity, actin cable formation and symmetric cell division.	Both symmetric and asymmetric cell divisions are required for the generation of appropriate cell lineages during development. Wild-type Schizosaccharomyces pombe cells divide in a symmetric fashion to produce two similar rod-shaped daughter cells. Formins are proteins with conserved roles in cell polarity, cytokinesis, and the regulation of actin and microtubule cytoskeletons.
Cdc2-cyclin B triggers H3 kinase activation of Aurora-A in Xenopus oocytes.	Xenopus oocytes are arrested in meiotic prophase I and resume meiotic divisions in response to progesterone. Progesterone triggers activation of M-phase promoting factor (MPF) or Cdc2-cyclin B complex and neosynthesis of Mos kinase, responsible for MAPK activation. Both Cdc2 and MAPK activities are required for the success of meiotic maturation. However, the signaling pathway induced by progesterone and leading to MPF activation is poorly understood, and most of the targets of both Cdc2 and MAPK in the oocyte remain to be determined. Aurora-A is a Ser/Thr kinase involved in separation of centrosomes and in spindle assembly during mitosis. It has been proposed that in Xenopus oocytes Aurora-A could be an early component of the progesterone-transduction pathway, acting through the regulation of Mos synthesis upstream Cdc2 activation. We addressed here the question of Aurora-A regulation during meiotic maturation by using new in vitro and in vivo experimental approaches. We demonstrate that Cdc2 kinase activity is necessary and sufficient to trigger both Aurora-A phosphorylation and kinase activation in Xenopus oocyte. In contrast, these events are independent of the Mos/MAPK pathway. Aurora-A is phosphorylated in vivo at least on three residues that regulate differentially its kinase activity. Therefore, Aurora-A is under the control of Cdc2 in the Xenopus oocyte and could be involved in meiotic spindle establishment.
Mitosis under control]	The mitotic checkpoint is essential to ensure accurate chromosome segregation by allowing a mitotic delay in response to a spindle defect. This checkpoint postpones the onset of anaphase until all the chromosomes are attached and correctly aligned onto the mitotic spindle. The checkpoint functions by preventing an ubiquitin ligase called the anaphase-promoting complex (APC) from ubiquitinylating proteins whose degradation is required for anaphase onset. Loss of this checkpoint results in chromosome missegregation in higher eukaryotes and may contribute to the genomic instability observed in most of the tumour cells.
Involvement of Crm1 in hepatitis B virus X protein-induced aberrant centriole replication and abnormal mitotic spindles.	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) includes an X gene (HBx gene) that plays a critical role in liver carcinogenesis. Because centrosome abnormalities are associated with genomic instability in most human cancer cells, we examined the effect of HBx on centrosomes. We found that HBx induced supernumerary centrosomes and multipolar spindles. This effect was independent of mutations in the p21 gene. Furthermore, the ability of HBV to induce supernumerary centrosomes was dependent on the presence of physiological HBx expression. We recently showed that HBx induces cytoplasmic sequestration of Crm1, a nuclear export receptor that binds to Ran GTPase, thereby inducing nuclear localization of NF-kappaB. Consistently, supernumerary centrosomes were observed in cells treated with a Crm1-specific inhibitor but not with an HBx mutant that lacked the ability to sequester Crm1 in the cytoplasm. Moreover, a fraction of Crm1 was found to be localized at the centrosomes. Immunocytochemical and ultrastructural examination of these supernumerary centrosomes revealed that inactivation of Crm1 was associated with abnormal centrioles. The presence of more than two centrosomes led to an increased frequency of defective mitoses and chromosome transmission errors. Based on this evidence, we suggest that Crm1 is actively involved in maintaining centrosome integrity and that HBx disrupts this process by inactivating Crm1 and thus contributes to HBV-mediated carcinogenesis.
CYTOPLASMIC MICROTUBULES IN DIFFERENT ANIMAL CELLS.	In avian, murine, and human cells fixed with glutaraldehyde, cytoplasmic microtubules 180 to 250 A in diameter and of undetermined length were found. These cytoplasmic microtubules are similar to those described by Ledbetter and Porter in plant cells after the same glutaraldehyde fixation. The cytoplasmic microtubules in animal cells are connected with the satellites of the centrioles and are similar to the mitotic spindle fibers. Their protein nature and their possible role in maintaining the shape of the cells are discussed. Their presence in all examined animal cells as well as in plant cells favors the hypothesis that they are a permanent component of the cytoplasm.
CYTOCHEMICAL LOCALIZATION OF ADENOSINE TRIPHOSPHATASE IN THE MITOTIC APPARATUS OF HELA AND SARCOMA 180 TISSUE CULTURE CELLS.	ATPase was localized in distinct regions of the mitotic apparatus of HeLa and Sarcoma 180 tissue culture cells. ATPase was demonstrated in the metaphase spindle of HeLa and Sarcoma 180 cells fixed in cold buffered 2 per cent formalin (pH 6.5 to 6.8) containing 2 x 10(-3)M CaCl(2). A high concentration of ATPase was frequently observed at the poles of the spindle. ATPase was also demonstrated in the interzonal region of both cell types during anaphase. The narrowing of the band of ATPase activity localized in the interzonal region during telophase indicates that ATPase activity is associated with the central spindle. In polar views of Sarcoma 180 cells fixed in cold, unbuffered, 2 per cent formalin, ATPase was frequently localized in granules in the region of the inner circumference of the ring of chromosomes formed at metaphase. ATPase in the mitotic apparatus of HeLa and Sarcoma 180 cells was shown not to be due to non-specific alkaline phosphatase. Mitotic apparatus ATPase in Sarcoma 180 cells was suppressed by an -SH inhibitor.
Contribution of noncentrosomal microtubules to spindle assembly in Drosophila spermatocytes.	Previous data suggested that anastral spindles, morphologically similar to those found in oocytes, can assemble in a centrosome-independent manner in cells that contain centrosomes. It is assumed that the microtubules that build these acentrosomal spindles originate over the chromatin. However, the actual processes of centrosome-independent microtubule nucleation, polymerisation, and sorting have not been documented in centrosome-containing cells. We have identified two experimental conditions in which centrosomes are kept close to the plasma membrane, away from the nuclear region, throughout meiosis I in Drosophila spermatocytes. Time-lapse confocal microscopy of these cells labelled with fluorescent chimeras reveals centrosome-independent microtubule nucleation, growth, and sorting into a bipolar spindle array over the nuclear region, away from the asters. The onset of noncentrosomal microtubule nucleation is significantly delayed with respect to nuclear envelope breakdown and coincides with the end of chromosome condensation. It takes place in foci that are close to the membranes that ensheath the nuclear region, not over the condensed chromosomes. Metaphase plates are formed in these spindles, and, in a fraction of them, some degree of polewards chromosome segregation takes place. In these cells that contain both membrane-bound asters and an anastral spindle, the orientation of the cytokinesis furrow correlates with the position of the asters and is independent of the orientation of the spindle. We conclude that the fenestrated nuclear envelope may significantly contribute to the normal process of spindle assembly in Drosophila spermatocytes. We also conclude that the anastral spindles that we have observed are not likely to provide a robust back-up able to ensure successful cell division. We propose that these anastral microtubule arrays could be a constitutive component of wild-type spindles, normally masked by the abundance of centrosome-derived microtubules and revealed when asters are kept away. These observations are consistent with a model in which centrosomal and noncentrosomal microtubules contribute to the assembly and are required for the robustness of the cell division spindle in cells that contain centrosomes.
Early embryogenesis of the pinewood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus.	The early embryogenesis and cell lineage of the pinewood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus was followed from a single-cell zygote to a 46-cell embryo under Nomarski optics, and elongation of the microtubules was studied by immunostaining. As a B. xylophilus oocyte matures, it passes through a passage connecting the oviduct with the quadricolumella, the distal part of the uterus, and reaches the quadricolumella where it stays for a few minutes and is fertilized. After fertilization, the germinal vesicle disappears, an eggshell is formed, and the male and female pronuclei appear. The pronuclei move toward each other and fuse at the center of the egg. Around this time, the microtubule-organizing center appears. The presumptive region of sperm entry into the oocyte becomes the future anterior portion of the embryo. This anterior-posterior axis determination is opposite to that of Caenorhabditis elegans, where the sperm entry site becomes the posterior portion of the embryo. The optimal growth temperatures of these two nematodes also differ in that temperatures of about 30 degrees C afford the fastest growth rate and highest hatching frequency in B. xylophilus. Otherwise, the lineage resembles that of C. elegans with respect to timing, positioning and the axis orientation of each cell division.
Tumor suppressor WARTS ensures genomic integrity by regulating both mitotic progression and G1 tetraploidy checkpoint function.	Defects in chromosomes or mitotic spindles activate the spindle checkpoint, resulting in cell cycle arrest at prometaphase. The prolonged activation of spindle checkpoint generally leads to mitotic exit without segregation after a transient mitotic arrest and the consequent formation of tetraploid G(1) cells. These tetraploid cells are usually blocked to enter the subsequent S phase by the activation of p53/pRb pathway, which is referred to as the G(1) tetraploidy checkpoint. A human homologue of the Drosophila warts tumor suppressor, WARTS, is an evolutionarily conserved serine-threonine kinase and implicated in development of human tumors. We previously showed that WARTS plays a crucial role in controlling mitotic progression by forming a regulatory complex with zyxin, a regulator of actin filament assembly, on mitotic apparatus. However, when WARTS is activated during cell cycle and how the loss of WARTS function leads to tumorigenesis have not been elucidated. Here we show that WARTS is activated during mitosis in mammalian cells, and that overexpression of a kinase-inactive WARTS in Rat1 fibroblasts significantly induced mitotic delay. This delay resulted from prolonged activation of the spindle assembly checkpoint and was frequently followed by mitotic slippage and the development of tetraploidy. The resulting tetraploid cells then abrogated the G(1) tetraploidy checkpoint and entered S phase to achieve a DNA content of 8N. This impairment of G(1) tetraploidy checkpoint was caused as a consequence of failure to induce p53 expression by expressing a kinase-inactive WARTS. WARTS thus plays a critical role in maintenance of ploidy through its actions in both mitotic progression and the G(1) tetraploidy checkpoint.
Analysis of a spindle pole body mutant reveals a defect in biorientation and illuminates spindle forces.	The spindle pole body (SPB) is the microtubule organizing center in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. An essential task of the SPB is to ensure assembly of the bipolar spindle, which requires a proper balancing of forces on the microtubules and chromosomes. The SPB component Spc110p connects the ends of the spindle microtubules to the core of the SPB. We previously reported the isolation of a mutant allele spc110-226 that causes broken spindles and SPB disintegration 30 min after spindle formation. By live cell imaging of mutant cells with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-Tub1p or Spc97p-GFP, we show that spc110-226 mutant cells have early defects in spindle assembly. Short spindles form but do not advance to the 1.5-microm stage and frequently collapse. Kinetochores are not arranged properly in the mutant cells. In 70% of the cells, no stable biorientation occurs and all kinetochores are associated with only one SPB. Examination of the SPB remnants by electron microscopy tomography and fluorescence microscopy revealed that the Spc110-226p/calmodulin complex is stripped off of the central plaque of the SPB and coalesces to from a nucleating structure in the nucleoplasm. The central plaque components Spc42p and Spc29p remain behind in the nuclear envelope. The delamination is likely due to a perturbed interaction between Spc42p and Spc110-226p as detected by fluorescence resonance energy transfer analysis. We suggest that the force exerted on the SPB by biorientation of the chromosomes pulls the Spc110-226p out of the SPB; removal of force exerted by coherence of the sister chromatids reduced fragmentation fourfold. Removal of the forces exerted by the cytoplasmic microtubules had no effect on fragmentation. Our results provide insights into the relative contributions of the kinetochore and cytoplasmic microtubules to the forces involved in formation of a bipolar spindle.
The A78V mutation in the Mad3-like domain of Schizosaccharomyces pombe Bub1p perturbs nuclear accumulation and kinetochore targeting of Bub1p, Bub3p, and Mad3p and spindle assembly checkpoint function.	During mitosis, the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) responds to faulty attachments between kinetochores and the mitotic spindle by imposing a metaphase arrest until the defect is corrected, thereby preventing chromosome missegregation. A genetic screen to isolate SAC mutants in fission yeast yielded point mutations in three fission yeast SAC genes: mad1, bub3, and bub1. The bub1-A78V mutant is of particular interest because it produces a wild-type amount of protein that is mutated in the conserved but uncharacterized Mad3-like region of Bub1p. Characterization of mutant cells demonstrates that the alanine at position 78 in the Mad3-like domain of Bub1p is required for: 1) cell cycle arrest induced by SAC activation; 2) kinetochore accumulation of Bub1p in checkpoint-activated cells; 3) recruitment of Bub3p and Mad3p, but not Mad1p, to kinetochores in checkpoint-activated cells; and 4) nuclear accumulation of Bub1p, Bub3p, and Mad3p, but not Mad1p, in cycling cells. Increased targeting of Bub1p-A78V to the nucleus by an exogenous nuclear localization signal does not significantly increase kinetochore localization or SAC function, but GFP fused to the isolated Bub1p Mad 3-like accumulates in the nucleus. These data indicate that Bub1p-A78V is defective in both nuclear accumulation and kinetochore targeting and that a threshold level of nuclear Bub1p is necessary for the nuclear accumulation of Bub3p and Mad3p.
The Caenorhabditis elegans Aurora B kinase AIR-2 phosphorylates and is required for the localization of a BimC kinesin to meiotic and mitotic spindles.	BimC kinesins are required for mitotic spindle assembly in a variety of organisms. These proteins are localized to centrosomes, spindle microtubules, and the spindle midzone. We have previously shown that the Caenorhabditis elegans Aurora B kinase AIR-2 is required for the localization of the ZEN-4 kinesin protein to midzone microtubules. To determine whether the association of BimC kinesins with spindle microtubules is also dependent on AIR-2, we examined the expression pattern of BMK-1, a C. elegans BimC kinesin, in wild-type and AIR-2-deficient embryos. BMK-1 is highly expressed in the hermaphrodite gonad and is localized to meiotic spindle microtubules in the newly fertilized embryo. In mitotic embryos, BMK-1 is associated with spindle microtubules from prophase through anaphase and is concentrated at the spindle midzone during anaphase and telophase. In the absence of AIR-2, BMK-1 localization to meiotic and mitotic spindles is greatly reduced. This is not a consequence of loss of ZEN-4 localization because BMK-1 is appropriately localized in ZEN-4-deficient embryos. Furthermore, AIR-2 and BMK-1 directly interact with one another and the C-terminal tail domain of BMK-1 is specifically phosphorylated by AIR-2 in vitro. Together with our previous data, these results suggest that at least one function of the Aurora B kinases is to recruit spindle-associated motor proteins to their sites of action.
A requirement for breast-cancer-associated gene 1 (BRCA1) in the spindle checkpoint.	BRCA1-associated breast cancer exhibits significantly higher levels of chromosomal abnormalities than sporadic breast cancers. However, the molecular mechanisms regarding the roles of BRCA1 in maintaining genome integrity remain elusive. By using a mouse model deficient for Brca1 full-length isoform (Brca1(Delta11/Delta11)), we found that Brca1(Delta11/Delta11) cells displayed decreased expression of a number of genes that are involved in the spindle checkpoint, including Mad2, which is a key component of spindle checkpoint that inhibits anaphase-promoting complex. We showed that Brca1(Delta11/Delta11) cells failed to arrest at metaphase in the presence of nocodazole and underwent apoptosis because of activation of p53. Consistently, reconstitution of Mad2 in Brca1(Delta11/Delta11) cells partially restored the spindle checkpoint and attenuated apoptosis. By using UBR60 cells, which carry tetracycline-regulated expression of BRCA1, we demonstrated that BRCA1 binds to transcription factor OCT-1 and up-regulates the transcription of MAD2. Furthermore, we showed that the induction of BRCA1 to endogenous MAD2 or transfected MAD2 luciferase reporter in UBR60 cells was completely inhibited by acute suppression of BRCA1 by RNA interference. These data reveal a role of BRCA1 in maintaining genome integrity by interplaying with p53 and genes that are involved in the spindle checkpoint and apoptosis.
DNA replication checkpoint prevents precocious chromosome segregation by regulating spindle behavior.	The DNA replication checkpoint maintains replication fork integrity and prevents chromosome segregation during replication stresses. Mec1 and Rad53 (human ATM/ATR- and Chk2-like kinases, respectively) are critical effectors of this pathway in yeast. When treated with replication inhibitors, checkpoint-deficient mec1 or rad53 mutant fails to maintain replication fork integrity and proceeds to partition unreplicated chromosomes. We show that this unnatural chromosome segregation requires neither the onset of mitosis nor APC activation, cohesin cleavage, or biorientation of kinetochores. Instead, the checkpoint deficiency leads to deregulation of microtubule-associated proteins Cin8 and Stu2, which, in the absence of both chromosome cohesion and bipolar attachment of kinetochores to microtubules, induce untimely spindle elongation, causing premature chromosome separation. The checkpoint's ability to prevent nuclear division is abolished by combined deficiency of microtubule-destabilizing motor Kip3 and Mad2 functions. Thus, the DNA replication checkpoint prevents precocious chromosome segregation, not by inhibiting entry into mitosis as widely believed, but by directly regulating spindle dynamics.
Differential expression of tyrosinated tubulin in Spisula solidissima polar bodies.	The C-terminus of alpha-tubulin can be reversibly modified by a specific tyrosine ligase to yield an isoform known as Tyr-tubulin. Tyr-tubulin is typically found in more dynamic microtubule arrays such as the mitotic spindle, as opposed to stable structures like centrioles and flagella. In developing systems, it is expressed in relatively undifferentiated, proliferative cell types but is replaced by detyrosinated (Glu-) tubulin during differentiation. We found Tyr-tubulin highly enriched in a single polar body of Spisula solidissima embryos. Quantitation of DNA content by Hoechst staining indicates that polar body 1 (with twice the DNA content of polar body 2) is the Tyr-tubulin-positive cell. Other than the apoptosis marker caspase, this is, to our knowledge, the first distinguishing marker antigen for polar bodies, particularly for one polar body vs. another. This localization of Tyr-tubulin is unlikely to be a byproduct of the meiotic process itself, because it arises after ejection of both polar bodies is complete. Although polar bodies are typically thought of as a terminally differentiated vestige of meiosis, the localization of this more dynamic tubulin isoform suggests an active role in early development.
Association of MAD2 expression with mitotic checkpoint competence in hepatoma cells.	Chromosomal instability (CIN) refers to high rates of chromosomal gains and losses and is a major cause of genomic instability of cells. It is thought that CIN caused by loss of mitotic checkpoint contributes to carcinogenesis. In this study, we evaluated the competence of mitotic checkpoint in hepatoma cells and investigated the cause of mitotic checkpoint defects. We found that 6 (54.5%) of the 11 hepatoma cell lines were defective in mitotic checkpoint control as monitored by mitotic indices and flow-cytometric analysis after treatment with microtubule toxins. Interestingly, all 6 hepatoma cell lines with defective mitotic checkpoint showed significant underexpression of mitotic arrest deficient 2 (MAD2), a key mitotic checkpoint protein. The level of MAD2 underexpression was significantly associated with defective mitotic checkpoint response (p < 0.001). In addition, no mutations were found in the coding sequences of MAD2 in all 11 hepatoma cell lines. Our findings suggest that MAD2 deficiency may cause a mitotic checkpoint defect in hepatoma cells.
A spindle checkpoint functions during mitosis in the early Caenorhabditis elegans embryo.	During mitosis, chromosome segregation is regulated by a spindle checkpoint mechanism. This checkpoint delays anaphase until all kinetochores are captured by microtubules from both spindle poles, chromosomes congress to the metaphase plate, and the tension between kinetochores and their attached microtubules is properly sensed. Although the spindle checkpoint can be activated in many different cell types, the role of this regulatory mechanism in rapidly dividing embryonic animal cells has remained controversial. Here, using time-lapse imaging of live embryonic cells, we show that chemical or mutational disruption of the mitotic spindle in early Caenorhabditis elegans embryos delays progression through mitosis. By reducing the function of conserved checkpoint genes in mutant embryos with defective mitotic spindles, we show that these delays require the spindle checkpoint. In the absence of a functional checkpoint, more severe defects in chromosome segregation are observed in mutants with abnormal mitotic spindles. We also show that the conserved kinesin CeMCAK, the CENP-F-related proteins HCP-1 and HCP-2, and the core kinetochore protein CeCENP-C all are required for this checkpoint. Our analysis indicates that spindle checkpoint mechanisms are functional in the rapidly dividing cells of an early animal embryo and that this checkpoint can prevent chromosome segregation defects during mitosis.
Functional analysis of cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain in Caenorhabditis elegans with fast-acting temperature-sensitive mutations.	Cytoplasmic dynein, a minus-end-directed microtubule motor, has been implicated in many cellular and developmental processes. Identification of specific cellular processes that rely directly on dynein would be facilitated by a means to induce specific and rapid inhibition of its function. We have identified conditional variants of a Caenorhabditis elegans dynein heavy chain (DHC-1) that lose function within a minute of a modest temperature upshift. Mutant embryos generated at elevated temperature show defects in centrosome separation, pronuclear migration, rotation of the centrosome/nucleus complex, bipolar spindle assembly, anaphase chromosome segregation, and cytokinesis. Our analyses of mutant embryos generated at permissive temperature and then upshifted quickly just before events of interest indicate that DHC-1 is required specifically for rotation of the centrosome/nucleus complex, for chromosome congression to a well ordered metaphase plate, and for timely initiation of anaphase. Our results do not support the view that DHC-1 is required for anaphase B separation of spindle poles and chromosomes. A P-loop mutation identified in two independent dominant temperature-sensitive alleles of dhc-1, when engineered into the DHC1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, conferred a dominant temperature-sensitive dynein loss-of-function phenotype. This suggests that temperature-sensitive mutations can be created for time-resolved function analyses of dyneins and perhaps other P-loop proteins in a variety of model systems.
Ablation of PRC1 by small interfering RNA demonstrates that cytokinetic abscission requires a central spindle bundle in mammalian cells, whereas completion of furrowing does not.	The temporal and spatial regulation of cytokinesis requires an interaction between the anaphase mitotic spindle and the cell cortex. However, the relative roles of the spindle asters or the central spindle bundle are not clear in mammalian cells. The central spindle normally serves as a platform to localize key regulators of cell cleavage, including passenger proteins. Using time-lapse and immunofluorescence analysis, we have addressed the consequences of eliminating the central spindle by ablation of PRC1, a microtubule bundling protein that is critical to the formation of the central spindle. Without a central spindle, the asters guide the equatorial cortical accumulation of anillin and actin, and of the passenger proteins, which organize into a subcortical ring in anaphase. Furrowing goes to completion, but abscission to create two daughter cells fails. We conclude the central spindle bundle is required for abscission but not for furrowing in mammalian cells.
Aurora-A - a guardian of poles.	The three human homologues of Aurora kinases (A, B and C) are essential for proper execution of various mitotic events and are important for maintaining genomic integrity. Aurora-A is mainly localized at spindle poles and the mitotic spindle during mitosis, where it regulates the functions of centrosomes, spindles and kinetochores required for proper mitotic progression. Recent studies have revealed that Aurora-A is frequently overexpressed in various cancer cells, indicating its involvement in tumorigenesis. What are the normal physiological roles of Aurora-A, how are these regulated and how might the enzyme function during tumorigenesis?
Kinetochore-spindle microtubule interactions during mitosis.	The kinetochore is a proteinaceous structure that assembles onto centromeric DNA and mediates chromosome attachment to microtubules during mitosis. This description is deceivingly simple: recent proteomic studies suggest that the diminutive kinetochores of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are comprised of at least 60 proteins organized into as many as 14 different subcomplexes. Many of these proteins, such as the centromeric histone variant CENP-A, and entire subcomplexes, such as the Ndc80(Hec1) complex, are conserved from yeast to humans despite the diverse nature of the DNA sequences on which they assemble. There have recently been advances in our understanding of the molecular basis of how kinetochores establish dynamic attachments to spindle microtubules, and how these attachments are correctly oriented to ensure segregation of sister chromatids to daughter cells.
Microtubule-depolymerizing kinesins.	The fact that some kinesin-related proteins can destabilize microtubules is now a well-established fact. However, the contribution that these kinesins make to cellular function is just coming into focus. Key structural and kinetic studies on the mechanism of microtubule depolymerization by these kinesins have provided a framework for understanding their cellular regulation and function. Completion of some of the genome sequences and recent technological advances enabling the rapid depletion of cellular proteins in metazoans have clarified the functional role and level of cooperation between members of the depolymerizing kinesin families. Recent studies utilizing these technologies have revealed how these kinesins play an integral role in the mechanics of mitotic spindle assembly, chromosome segregation and the shaping of connections in the brain.
Spindle assembly: asters part their separate ways.	Cells have developed diverse ways to separate two microtubule asters to form a mitotic spindle. Here, I focus on two mechanisms used to position asters around chromosomes during mitosis: first, aster migration around the nuclear envelope and, second, aster attachment to a contractile cortex at the plasma membrane after the nuclear envelope has broken down. Although certain cell types use one mechanism predominantly, most rely on both to ensure proper spindle assembly.
A role for PML3 in centrosome duplication and genome stability.	The promyelocytic leukemia gene (PML), which is disrupted by the chromosomal translocation t(15;17) in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), encodes a multifunctional protein involved in several important cellular functions. Herein, we demonstrate that PML is localized to centrosomes and that PML deficiency leads to centrosome amplification. By using PML isoform-specific antibodies, we found PML3-specific association with the centrosome and the pole of the mitotic spindle. PML3 deficiency leads to dysregulation of the centrosome duplication checkpoint. Furthermore, PML3 physically interacts with Aurora A and regulates its kinase activity. Specific knockdown of PML3 activates Cdk2/cyclin kinase activity. The results of this study implicate a direct role for PML3 in the control of centrosome duplication through suppression of Aurora A activation to prevent centrosome reduplication.
A RAD9-dependent checkpoint blocks meiosis of cdc13 yeast cells.	Mutations in CDC13 have previously been found to cause cell cycle arrest of Saccharomyces cerevisiae at a stage in G2 immediately preceding the mitotic division. We show here that cdc13 blocks the meiotic pathway at a stage that follows DNA replication, but in this case the spindle has not yet formed nor have the chromosomes undergone synapsis or recombination. This arrest is alleviated by rad9, thus implicating the same checkpoint function that delays mitotic progression when chromosomal lesions are present. An assessment of the spores produced upon alleviation of the meiotic arrest by rad9 reveals that the absence of recombination in strains bearing cdc13 alone is attributable to the RAD9-mediated arrest rather than to other effects of cdc13 lesions. We have tested the possibility that this checkpoint function is important in regulating meiotic progression to permit resolution of recombinational intermediates during ongoing meiosis and have found no evidence that rad9 alters the execution of functions that might depend upon such regulation. We consider the possible role of other checkpoints in yeast meiosis.
polo encodes a protein kinase homolog required for mitosis in Drosophila.	We show that mutation in polo leads to a variety of abnormal mitoses in Drosophila larval neuroblasts. These include otherwise normal looking mitotic spindles upon which chromosomes appear overcondensed; normal bipolar spindles with polyploid complements of chromosomes; bipolar spindles in which one pole can be unusually broad; and monopolar spindles. We have cloned the polo gene from a mutant allele carrying a P-element transposon and sequenced cDNAs corresponding to transcripts of the wild-type locus. The sequence shows that polo encodes a 577-amino-acid protein with an amino-terminal domain homologous to a serine-threonine protein kinase. polo transcripts are abundant in tissues and developmental stages in which there is extensive mitotic activity. The transcripts show no obvious spatial pattern of distribution in relation to the mitotic domains of cellularized embryos but are specifically concentrated in dividing cells in larval discs and brains. In the cell cycles of both syncytial and cellularized embryos, the polo kinase undergoes cell cycle-dependent changes in its distribution: It is predominantly cytoplasmic during interphase; it becomes associated with condensed chromosomes toward the end of prophase; and it remains associated with chromosomes until telophase, whereupon it becomes cytoplasmic.
Overexpression of Cdc20 leads to impairment of the spindle assembly checkpoint and aneuploidization in oral cancer.	Defects in the spindle assembly checkpoint are thought to be responsible for an increased rate of aneuploidization during tumorigenesis. Despite a plethora of information on the correlation between BUB-MAD gene expression levels and defects in the spindle checkpoint, very little is known about alteration of another important spindle checkpoint protein, Cdc20, in human cancer and its role in tumor aneuploidy. We observed overexpression of CDC20 in several oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cell lines and primary head and neck tumors and provide evidence that such overexpression of CDC20 is associated with premature anaphase promotion, resulting in mitotic abnormalities in OSCC cell lines. We also reconstituted the chromosomal instability phenotype in a chromosomally stable OSCC cell line by overexpressing CDC20. Thus, abnormalities in the cellular level of Cdc20 may deregulate the timing of anaphase promoting complex (APC/C) in promoting premature anaphase, which often results in aneuploidy in the tumor cells.
Biophysical model of self-organized spindle formation patterns without centrosomes and kinetochores.	Eukaryotic cell division and chromosome segregation depend crucially on the mitotic spindle pattern formation. The usual pathway for spindle production involves microtubule polymerization from two centrosomes. However, experiments using Xenopus extracts with micrometer-sized chromatin-coated beads found, remarkably, that spindle patterns can form in the absence of centrosomes, kinetochores, and duplicated chromosomes. Here we introduce a previously undescribed biophysical model inspired by the heuristic interpretations of the experiments that provides a quantitative explanation and constraints for this type of experiment. The model involves plus-directed (chromokinesin and Eg5) and minus-directed (cytoplasmic dynein oligomers) motors walking on microtubules and the boundary conditions caused by the chromatin-coated spheres. This model combines the effects of the plus-directed cross-linking motor Eg5 and any chromokinesin on the chromatin-covered beads, reflecting current uncertainties in the division of function between the two kinds of motors. The model can nucleate dynamically a variety of self-organized spindle patterns over a wide range of biological parameter values. Our calculations show that spindles will form over a wide range of parameter values. Some parameter values cause a monaster to form instead of a bipolar spindle. Varying the processivity and the dynein microtubule attachment and detachment rates, we find stability parameters for spindle formations. These results not only constrain the possible parameter values, but they point toward the proper division of function between Eg5 and chromokinesin in this spindle formation pathway. The model results suggest experiments that would further enhance our understanding of the basic elements needed for spindle pattern formation in this pathway.
Chronic oxaliplatin resistance induces epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in colorectal cancer cell lines.	Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a process whereby cells acquire molecular alterations that facilitate cell motility and invasion. In preliminary studies, we observed that oxaliplatin-resistant (OxR) colorectal cancer (CRC) cells underwent morphologic changes suggestive of a migratory phenotype, leading us to hypothesize that OxR CRC cells undergo EMT.
APC/C-mediated degradation in early mitosis: how to avoid spindle assembly checkpoint inhibition.	The APC/C is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that, by targeting substrates for proteasomal degradation, plays a major role in cell cycle control. In complex with one of two WD40 activator proteins, Cdc20 or Cdh1, the APC/C is active from early mitosis through to late G1 and during this time targets many critical regulators of the cell cycle for degradation. However, this destruction is carefully ordered to ensure that cell cycle events are executed in a timely fashion. Recent studies have begun to shed light on how the APC/C selects different substrates at different times in the cell cycle. One particular problem is how the APC/C recognizes its first set of substrates, Nek2A and cyclin A, in early mitosis when, at this time, the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) inhibits most APC/C-dependent degradation. The answer may lie in how substrates are recruited to the APC/C. While checkpoint-dependent substrates appear to require Cdc20 for recruitment, experiments on the early mitotic substrate Nek2A demonstrate that it can bind the APC/C in the absence of Cdc20. The direct interaction of substrates with core subunits of the APC/C could allow their degradation to proceed unhindered even when the SAC is active.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 regulation of chromatin segregation and cytokinesis in mouse preimplantation embryos.	Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is a highly conserved serine/threonine protein kinase implicated in diverse cellular processes. Activity of GSK-3 is essential for meiotic chromatin segregation in oocytes, yet expression and/or function of GSK-3 have not been reported in mammalian preimplantation embryos. Objectives of this study were to characterize GSK-3 protein expression/phosphorylation in mouse preimplantation embryos, to assess the effect of GSK-3 activity inhibition on early mitotic events, and to differentiate nuclear and cytoplasmic anomalies in GSK-3 inhibited embryos. Both GSK-3 isoforms were expressed during embryo development, with a differential expression of alpha versus beta. Phosphorylation of GSK-3alpha/beta at residues Y279/Y216 indicated constitutive activation throughout preimplantation development. Phosphorylation at N-terminal residues S21/S9 indicated inhibition of GSK-3alpha/beta activity that was differentially regulated during early development; both alpha and beta isoforms were phosphorylated during early divisions, whereas at the blastocyst stage, only beta was phosphorylated. Cytoplasmic microinjection of zygotes with anti-GSK-3alpha/beta antibody significantly compromised embryonic development past the two-cell stage compared to controls. Reversibility of developmental block was tested via pharmacological inhibitors of GSK-3, lithium chloride (LiCl) and alsterpaullone. Similar to immunoneutralization, significantly fewer zygotes cultured with either LiCl or alsterpaullone developed past the two-cell stage compared to controls and this mitotic block was not reversible. Inhibition of GSK-3 activity significantly compromised timing of pronuclear membrane breakdown and mitosis initiation, nuclear development, and cytokinesis. Inhibition of GSK-3 also resulted in abnormal chromatin segregation, evidenced by incomplete karyokinesis and micronuclei formation. These results suggest that GSK-3 activity is critical for early preimplantation embryonic development.
Formin-2 is required for spindle migration and for the late steps of cytokinesis in mouse oocytes.	Female meiotic divisions in higher organisms are asymmetric and lead to the formation of a large oocyte and small polar bodies. These asymmetric divisions are due to eccentric spindle positioning which, in the mouse, requires actin filaments. Recently Formin-2, a straight actin filaments nucleator, has been proposed to control spindle positioning, chromosome segregation as well as first polar body extrusion in mouse oocytes. We reexamine here the possible role of Formin-2 during mouse meiotic maturation by live videomicroscopy. We show that Formin-2 controls first meiotic spindle migration to the cortex but not chromosome congression or segregation. We also show that the lack of first polar body extrusion in fmn2(-/-) oocytes is not due to a lack of cortical differentiation or central spindle formation but to a defect in the late steps of cytokinesis. Indeed, Survivin, a component of the passenger protein complex, is correctly localized on the central spindle at anaphase in fmn2(-/-) oocytes. We show here that attempts of cytokinesis in these oocytes abort due to phospho-myosin II mislocalization.
Chromosomes with delayed replication timing lead to checkpoint activation, delayed recruitment of Aurora B and chromosome instability.	Certain chromosome rearrangements display a significant delay in chromosome replication timing (DRT) that is associated with a subsequent delay in mitotic chromosome condensation (DMC). DRT/DMC chromosomes are common in tumor cells in vitro and in vivo and occur frequently in cells exposed to ionizing radiation. A hallmark for these chromosomes is the delayed phosphorylation of serine 10 of histone H3 during mitosis. The chromosome passenger complex, consisting of multiple proteins including Aurora B kinase and INCENP is thought to be responsible for H3 phosphorylation, chromosome condensation and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes. In this report, we show that chromosomes with DRT/DMC contain phosphorylated Chk1, consistent with activation of the S-M phase checkpoint. Furthermore, we show that INCENP is recruited to the DRT/DMC chromosomes during all phases of mitosis. In contrast, Aurora B kinase is absent on DRT/DMC chromosomes when these chromosomes lack serine 10 phosphorylation of H3. We also show that mitotic arrest deficient 2 (Mad2), a member of the spindle assembly checkpoint, is present on DRT/DMC chromosomes at a time when the normally condensed chromosomes show no Mad2 staining, indicating that DRT/DMC activates the spindle assembly checkpoint. Finally, cells with DRT/DMC chromosomes have centrosome amplification, abnormal spindle assembly, endoreduplication and significant chromosome instability.
An inhibitor of the kinesin spindle protein activates the intrinsic apoptotic pathway independently of p53 and de novo protein synthesis.	The kinesin spindle protein (KSP), a microtubule motor protein, is essential for the formation of bipolar spindles during mitosis. Inhibition of KSP activates the spindle checkpoint and causes apoptosis. It was shown that prolonged inhibition of KSP activates Bax and caspase-3, which requires a competent spindle checkpoint and couples with mitotic slippage. Here we investigated how Bax is activated by KSP inhibition and the roles of Bax and p53 in KSP inhibitor-induced apoptosis. We demonstrate that small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of Bax greatly attenuates KSP inhibitor-induced apoptosis and that Bax activation is upstream of caspase activation. This indicates that Bax mediates the lethality of KSP inhibitors and that KSP inhibition provokes apoptosis via the intrinsic apoptotic pathway where Bax activation is prior to caspase activation. Although the BH3-only protein Puma is induced after mitotic slippage, suppression of de novo protein synthesis that abrogates Puma induction does not block activation of Bax or caspase-3, indicating that Bax activation is triggered by a posttranslational event. Comparison of KSP inhibitor-induced apoptosis between matched cell lines containing either functional or deficient p53 reveals that inhibition of KSP induces apoptosis independently of p53 and that p53 is dispensable for spindle checkpoint function. Thus, KSP inhibitors should be active in p53-deficient tumors.
Ectopic expression of Plk1 leads to activation of the spindle checkpoint.	Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1), the best characterized member of the mammalian polo-like kinase family, is well regulated throughout the cell cycle, and is inhibited following DNA damage. Chk1 plays a key role in the response to DNA damage. We recently reported that Chk1 is required for mitotic progression through negative regulation of Plk1. Here, we report the phenotypes of cultured cells upon ectopic expression of various forms of Plk1. Epitopic expression of Plk1 led to mitotic arrest, whereas coexpression of Chk1 could release this mitotic block. Moreover, the Plk1 expression-induced mitotic block was also released by inactivation of the spindle-assembly checkpoint.
ZW10 function in mitotic checkpoint control, dynein targeting and membrane trafficking: is dynein the unifying theme?	ZW10 was initially identified as a mitotic checkpoint protein involved in chromosome segregation. It was subsequently implicated in targeting cytoplasmic dynein and dynactin to mitotic kinetochores, though the relationship between these functions remains incompletely understood. Recent studies have revealed that ZW10 performs important functions in nondividing cells as well. These include cytoplasmic dynein targeting to Golgi and other membranes, but also SNARE-mediated ER-Golgi trafficking. Identifying a unifying function for ZW10 in these diverse contexts has been elusive, but likely involves cytoplasmic dynein, as discussed here.
Chk1-dependent regulation of Cdc25B functions to coordinate mitotic events.	The coordination of mitotic spindle formation and chromatin condensation is an essential prerequisite for successful mitosis. Both events are thought to be initiated by cyclin B/Cdk1, whose initial activation occurs in late prophase at the centrosomes. Recently, we have shown that Chk1 localizes to interphase centrosomes and thereby negatively regulates entry into mitosis by preventing premature activation of cyclin B/Cdk1. Here, we demonstrate that inhibition of Chk1 kinase induces mitotic entry with regular spindle assembly but aberrant and mislocalized chromatin. This effect, which we have termed the 'paraspindle' phenotype, was reverted by downregulation of Cdc25B phosphatase using siRNA, which restored normal mitosis with regular chromatin. Analogous to Chk1 inhibition, the 'paraspindle' phenotype was induced by overexpression of Cdc25B but not Cdc25A. Our results suggest that Chk1 functions to coordinate mitotic events through regulation of Cdc25B.
The Ndc80/HEC1 complex is a contact point for kinetochore-microtubule attachment.	Kinetochores are multicomponent assemblies that connect chromosomal centromeres to mitotic-spindle microtubules. The Ndc80 complex is an essential core element of kinetochores, conserved from yeast to humans. It is a rod-like assembly of four proteins- Ndc80p (HEC1 in humans), Nuf2p, Spc24p and Spc25p. We describe here the crystal structure of the most conserved region of HEC1, which lies at one end of the rod and near the N terminus of the polypeptide chain. It folds into a calponin-homology domain, resembling the microtubule-binding domain of the plus-end-associated protein EB1. We show that an Ndc80p-Nuf2p heterodimer binds microtubules in vitro. The less conserved, N-terminal segment of Ndc80p contributes to the interaction and may be a crucial regulatory element. We propose that the Ndc80 complex forms a direct link between kinetochore core components and spindle microtubules.
Chemical genetics reveals the requirement for Polo-like kinase 1 activity in positioning RhoA and triggering cytokinesis in human cells.	Polo-like kinases (Plks) play crucial roles in mitosis and cell division. Whereas lower eukaryotes typically contain a single Plk, mammalian cells express several closely related but functionally distinct Plks. We describe here a chemical genetic system in which a single Plk family member, Plk1, can be inactivated with high selectivity and temporal resolution by using an allele-specific, small-molecule inhibitor, as well as the application of this system to dissect Plk1's role in cytokinesis. To do this, we disrupted both copies of the PLK1 locus in human cells through homologous recombination and then reconstituted Plk1 activity by using either the wild-type kinase (Plk1(wt)) or a mutant version whose catalytic pocket has been enlarged to accommodate bulky purine analogs (Plk1(as)). When cultured in the presence of these analogs, Plk1(as) cells accumulate in prometaphase with defects that parallel those found in PLK1(Delta/Delta) cells. In addition, acute treatment of Plk1(as) cells during anaphase prevents recruitment of both Plk1 itself and the Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (RhoGEF) Ect2 to the central spindle, abolishes RhoA GTPase localization to the equatorial cortex, and suppresses cleavage furrow formation and cell division. Our studies define and illuminate a late mitotic function of Plk1 that, although difficult or impossible to detect in Plk1-depleted cells, is readily revealed with chemical genetics.
Changes in chromosome number, genetic instability, and occupational exposures]	Aneugenic compounds cause chromosome missegregation during cell division and induce aneuploidy in cells that do not die. Aneuploidy is a key step in the progression from a normal cell into a cancerous cell, and it could represent an early event in the carcinogenic process. Missegregation of chromosome during anaphase often originates from centrosome abnormality, which plays a key role in the formation of the mitotic spindle during cell division. Micronuclei (MN) are thought to be biomarkers of chromosome damage due to genetic instability or exposure to environmental mutagens or carcinogens (occupational exposure for example). The MN assay in combination with fluorescent in situ hybridization discriminates between MN containing acentric chromosome fragments (chromosome breakage) and MN containing whole chromosomes (chromosome loss), consecutively to clastogenic and aneugenic events, respectively. Centromere-positive micronuclei are due to alteration in mitotic apparatus proteins. Two pathways could be involved : chromosome migration impairment would lead to MN containing a single chromosome whereas centrosome amplification would induce MN containing several chromosomes. For biomonitoring purposes, numerous confounding factors (host factors, lifestyle, genetic polymorphism) influence the MN biomarker. Thus, the separated analysis of MN containing a single or several centromeres could be useful, as centrosome abnormalities seem to be linked with an increase in genetic instability.
Polo-like kinase controls vertebrate spindle elongation and cytokinesis.	During cell division, chromosome segregation must be coordinated with cell cleavage so that cytokinesis occurs after chromosomes have been safely distributed to each spindle pole. Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) is an essential kinase that regulates spindle assembly, mitotic entry and chromosome segregation, but because of its many mitotic roles it has been difficult to specifically study its post-anaphase functions. Here we use small molecule inhibitors to block Plk1 activity at anaphase onset, and demonstrate that Plk1 controls both spindle elongation and cytokinesis. Plk1 inhibition did not affect anaphase A chromosome to pole movement, but blocked anaphase B spindle elongation. Plk1-inhibited cells failed to assemble a contractile ring and contract the cleavage furrow due to a defect in Rho and Rho-GEF localization to the division site. Our results demonstrate that Plk1 coordinates chromosome segregation with cytokinesis through its dual control of anaphase B and contractile ring assembly.
Faulty spindle checkpoint and cohesion protein activities predispose oocytes to premature chromosome separation and aneuploidy.	Aneuploidy accounts for a major proportion of human reproductive failures, mental and physical anomalies, and neoplasms. To heighten our understanding of normal and abnormal chromosome segregation, additional information is needed about the underlying molecular mechanisms of chromosome segregation. Although many hypotheses have been proposed for the etiology of human aneuploidy, there has not been general acceptance of any specific hypothesis. Moreover, it is important to recognize that many potential mechanisms exist whereby chromosome missegregation may occur. One area for investigating aneuploidy centers on the biochemical changes that take place during oocyte maturation. In this regard, recent results have shown that faulty mRNA of spindle-assembly checkpoint proteins and chromosome cohesion proteins may lead to aneuploidy. Also, postovulatory and in vitro aging of mouse oocytes has been shown to lead to decreased levels of Mad2 transcripts and elevated frequencies of premature centromere separation. The intent of this review is to highlight the major events surrounding chromosome segregation and to present the published results that support the premise that faulty chromosome cohesion proteins and spindle checkpoint proteins compromise accurate chromosome segregation.
Phosphorylation of MyoGEF on Thr-574 by Plk1 promotes MyoGEF localization to the central spindle.	We reported previously that a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, MyoGEF, localizes to the central spindle, activates RhoA, and is required for cytokinesis. In this study, we have found that Plk1 (polo-like kinase 1) can phosphorylate MyoGEF, thereby recruiting MyoGEF to the central spindle as well as enhancing MyoGEF activity toward RhoA. The in vitro kinase assay shows that Plk1 can phosphorylate MyoGEF on threonine 574. Immunoprecipitation/immunoblot analysis demonstrates that mutation of threonine 574 to alanine dramatically decreases threonine phosphorylation of MyoGEF in transfected HeLa cells, suggesting that threonine 574 is phosphorylated in vivo. Consistent with these observations, immunofluorescence shows that Plk1 and MyoGEF colocalize at the spindle pole and central spindle during mitosis and cytokinesis. Importantly, RNA interference-mediated depletion of Plk1 interferes with the localization of MyoGEF at the spindle pole and central spindle. Moreover, mutation of threonine 574 to alanine in MyoGEF or depletion of Plk1 by RNA interference leads to a decrease in MyoGEF activity toward RhoA in HeLa cells. Therefore, our results suggest that Plk1 can regulate MyoGEF activity and localization, contributing to the regulation of cytokinesis.
The role of the APC tumor suppressor in chromosomal instability.	Colorectal cancer (CRC) still represents the model of choice to study the mechanisms underlying tumor initiation and progression. Accordingly, CRC has been central in the analysis of the role played by chromosomal instability (CIN) in tumor initiation and progression. Although loss of APC tumor suppressor function initiates the adenoma-carcinoma sequence in the vast majority of CRCs through constitutive activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, the APC gene also represents a candidate CIN gene in CRC. Accordingly, two studies published in 2001 showed that truncating Apc mutations can lead to both quantitative and qualitative ploidy changes in primary mouse cell lines, mainly due to kinetochore and centrosome abnormalities. Here, we review and discuss the more recent literature on APC's functional activities possibly related to its role in eliciting CIN in tumor initiation and progression. We propose a model where loss and/or truncation of APC cause mitotic spindle defects that, upon somatic inactivation of other putative CIN genes (e.g. spindle and cell cycle checkpoint genes, DNA repair, telomere maintenance, etc.) underlie aneuploidy as observed in the majority of CRCs.
Meiotic regulation of TPX2 protein levels governs cell cycle progression in mouse oocytes.	Formation of female gametes requires acentriolar spindle assembly during meiosis. Mitotic spindles organize from centrosomes and via local activation of the RanGTPase on chromosomes. Vertebrate oocytes present a RanGTP gradient centred on chromatin at all stages of meiotic maturation. However, this gradient is dispensable for assembly of the first meiotic spindle. To understand this meiosis I peculiarity, we studied TPX2, a Ran target, in mouse oocytes. Strikingly, TPX2 activity is controlled at the protein level through its accumulation from meiosis I to II. By RNAi depletion and live imaging, we show that TPX2 is required for spindle assembly via two distinct functions. It controls microtubule assembly and spindle pole integrity via the phosphorylation of TACC3, a regulator of MTOCs activity. We show that meiotic spindle formation in vivo depends on the regulation of at least a target of Ran, TPX2, rather than on the regulation of the RanGTP gradient itself.
Influence of airborne suspended matter on mitotic cell division.	The effect of organic extracts of airborne suspended matter collected in the highly polluted industrial region of Silesia (Poland) on mitotic cell division was evaluated in the Chinese hamster V79 cell line. Crude benzene extracts as well as sequential elution solvent chromatography (SESC) fractions were investigated for their ability to affect the mitotic index, the proportion of anaphases-telophases to metaphases (AT/M ratio), the cloning efficiency and to produce aneuploid cells. The incidence of cell division disturbances in V79 cells exposed to extracts increased in a concentration-dependent manner. Mitotic arrest, manifested as a highly increased mitotic index and a concomitant decrease in the AT/M ratio, was found for the crude extract at a dose corresponding to 0.75 m3 of air. Comparable effects were noticed for SESC fraction 4, probably containing monophenol compounds. A strong dose-dependent reduction of cloning efficiency of V79 cells demonstrated cytotoxic activity of both the crude extract and fraction 4.
hZwint-1 bridges the inner and outer kinetochore: identification of the kinetochore localization domain and the hZw10-interaction domain.	Accurate chromosome segregation in mitosis is required to maintain genetic stability. hZwint-1 [human Zw10 (Zeste white 10)-interacting protein 1] is a kinetochore protein known to interact with the kinetochore checkpoint protein hZw10. hZw10, along with its partners Rod (Roughdeal) and hZwilch, form a complex which recruits dynein-dynactin and Mad1-Mad2 complexes to the kinetochore and are essential components of the mitotic checkpoint. hZwint-1 localizes to the kinetochore in prophase, before hZw10 localization, and remains at the kinetochore until anaphase, after hZw10 has dissociated. This difference in localization timing may reflect a role for hZwint-1 as a structural kinetochore protein. In addition to hZw10, we have found that hZwint-1 interacts with components of the conserved Ndc80 and Mis12 complexes in yeast two-hybrid and GST (glutathione transferase) pull-down assays. Furthermore, hZwint-1 was found to have stable FRAP (fluorescence recovery after photobleaching) dynamics similar to hHec1, hSpc24 and hMis12. As such, we proposed that hZwint-1 is a structural protein, part of the inner kinetochore scaffold and recruits hZw10 to the kinetochore. To test this, we performed mutagenesis-based domain mapping to determine which regions of hZwint-1 are necessary for kinetochore localization and which are required for interaction with hZw10. hZwint-1 localizes to the kinetochore through the N-terminal region and interacts with hZw10 through the C-terminal coiled-coil domain. The two domains are at opposite ends of the protein as expected for a protein that bridges the inner and outer kinetochore.
Essential role of protein phosphatase 2A in metaphase II arrest and activation of mouse eggs shown by okadaic acid, dominant negative protein phosphatase 2A, and FTY720.	Vertebrate eggs arrest at second meiotic metaphase. The fertilizing sperm causes meiotic exit through Ca(2+)-mediated activation of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C). Although the loss in activity of the M-phase kinase CDK1 is known to be an essential downstream event of this process, the contribution of phosphatases to arrest and meiotic resumption is less apparent, especially in mammals. Therefore, we explored the role of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) in mouse eggs using pharmacological inhibition and activation as well as a functionally dominant-negative catalytic PP2A subunit (dn-PP2Ac-L199P) coupled with live cell imaging. We observed that PP2A inhibition using okadaic acid induced events normally observed at fertilization: degradation of the APC/C substrates cyclin B1 and securin resulting from loss of the APC/C inhibitor Emi2. Although sister chromatids separated, chromatin remained condensed, and polar body extrusion was blocked as a result of a rapid spindle disruption, which could be ameliorated by non-degradable cyclin B1, suggesting that spindle integrity was affected by CDK1 loss. Similar cell cycle effects to okadaic acid were also observed using dominant-negative PP2Ac. Preincubation of eggs with the PP2A activator FTY720 could block many of the actions of okadaic acid, including Emi2, cyclin B1, and securin degradation and sister chromatid separation. Therefore, in conclusion, we used okadaic acid, dn-PP2Ac-L199P, and FTY720 on mouse eggs to demonstrate that PP2A is needed to for both continued metaphase arrest and successful exit from meiosis.
Genotoxicity of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and its steroidal analogue EA-4 in human lymphocytes and mouse cells in vitro.	The aim of our study is to: (a) investigate whether ATRA and its steroidal analogue EA-4 enhance micronucleation in human lymphocytes and mouse cells in vitro and clarify the micronucleation mechanism by FISH and CREST analysis respectively, and (b) analyze their effect on spindle organization by immunofluorescence of - and -tubulin in mouse cells. We found that they: (a) induce micronucleation mainly via chromosome breakage and chromosome delay in a lesser extent, (b) disturb microtubule network, chromosome orientation and centrosome duplication/separation, (c) accumulate cell cycle at ana-telophases, which exert micronucleation, multiple -tubulin signals, nucleoplasmic bridges and multinucleation, and (d) generate multinucleated and multimicronucleated interphase cells.
Chromosome passenger complexes control anaphase duration and spindle elongation via a kinesin-5 brake.	During mitosis, chromosome passenger complexes (CPCs) exhibit a well-conserved association with the anaphase spindle and have been implicated in spindle stability. However, their precise effect on the spindle is not clear. In this paper, we show, in budding yeast, that a CPC consisting of CBF3, Bir1, and Sli15, but not Ipl1, is required for normal spindle elongation. CPC mutants slow spindle elongation through the action of the bipolar kinesins Cin8 and Kip1. The same CPC mutants that slow spindle elongation also result in the enrichment of Cin8 and Kip1 at the spindle midzone. Together, these findings argue that CPCs function to organize the spindle midzone and potentially switch motors between force generators and molecular brakes. We also find that slowing spindle elongation delays the mitotic exit network (MEN)-dependent release of Cdc14, thus delaying spindle breakdown until a minimal spindle size is reached. We propose that these CPC- and MEN-dependent mechanisms are important for coordinating chromosome segregation with spindle breakdown and mitotic exit.
Shugoshin is a Mad1/Cdc20-like interactor of Mad2.	Mammalian centromeric cohesin is protected from phosphorylation-dependent displacement in mitotic prophase by shugoshin-1 (Sgo1), while shugoshin-2 (Sgo2) protects cohesin from separase-dependent cleavage in meiosis I. In higher eukaryotes, progression and faithful execution of both mitosis and meiosis are controlled by the spindle assembly checkpoint, which delays anaphase onset until chromosomes have achieved proper attachment to microtubules. According to the so-called template model, Mad1-Mad2 complexes at unattached kinetochores instruct conformational change of soluble Mad2, thus catalysing Mad2 binding to its target Cdc20. Here, we show that human Sgo2, but not Sgo1, specifically interacts with Mad2 in a manner that strongly resembles the interactions of Mad2 with Mad1 or Cdc20. Sgo2 contains a Mad1/Cdc20-like Mad2-interaction motif and competes with Mad1 and Cdc20 for binding to Mad2. NMR and biochemical analyses show that shugoshin binding induces similar conformational changes in Mad2 as do Mad1 or Cdc20. Mad2 binding regulates fine-tuning of Sgo2's sub-centromeric localization. Mad2 binding is conserved in the only known Xenopus laevis shugoshin homologue and, compatible with a putative meiotic function, the interaction occurs in oocytes.
High LET radiation enhances nocodazole Induced cell death in HeLa cells through mitotic catastrophe and apoptosis.	To understand how human tumor cells respond to the combined treatment with nocodazole and high LET radiation, alterations in cell cycle, mitotic disturbances and cell death were investigated in the present study. Human cervix carcinoma HeLa cells were exposed to nocodazole for 18 h immediately followed by high LET iron ion irradiation and displayed a sequence of events leading to DNA damages, mitotic aberrations, interphase restitution and endocycle as well as cell death. A prolonged mitotic arrest more than 10 h was observed following nocodazole exposure, no matter the irradiation was present or not. The occurrence of mitotic slippage following the mitotic arrest was only drug-dependent and the irradiation did not accelerate it. The amount of polyploidy cells was increased following mitotic slippage. No detectable G(2) or G(1) arrest was observed in cells upon the combined treatment and the cells reentered the cell cycle still harboring unrepaired cellular damages. This premature entry caused an increase of multipolar mitotic spindles and amplification of centrosomes, which gave rise to lagging chromosomal material, failure of cytokinesis and polyploidization. These mitotic disturbances and their outcomes confirmed the incidence of mitotic catastrophe and delayed apoptotic features displayed by TUNEL method after the combined treatment. These results suggest that the addition of high-LET iron ion irradiation to nocodazole enhanced mitotic catastrophe and delayed apoptosis in HeLa cells. These might be important cell death mechanisms involved in tumor cells in response to the treatment of antimitotic drug combined with high LET radiation.
Equilibria of idealized confined astral microtubules and coupled spindle poles.	Positioning of the mitotic spindle through the interaction of astral microtubules with the cell boundary often determines whether the cell division will be symmetric or asymmetric. This process plays a crucial role in development. In this paper, a numerical model is presented that deals with the force exerted on the spindle by astral microtubules that are bent by virtue of their confinement within the cell boundary. It is found that depending on parameters, the symmetric position of the spindle can be stable or unstable. Asymmetric stable equilibria also exist, and two or more stable positions can exist simultaneously. The theory poses new types of questions for experimental research. Regarding the cases of symmetric spindle positioning, it is necessary to ask whether the microtubule parameters are controlled by the cell so that the bending mechanics favors symmetry. If they are not, then it is necessary to ask what forces external to the microtubule cytoskeleton counteract the bending effects sufficiently to actively establish symmetry. Conversely, regarding the cases with asymmetry, it is now necessary to investigate whether the cell controls the microtubule parameters so that the bending favors asymmetry apart from any forces that are external to the microtubule cytoskeleton.
The spindle assembly checkpoint works like a rheostat rather than a toggle switch.	The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) is essential in mammalian mitosis to ensure the equal segregation of sister chromatids. The SAC generates a mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC) to prevent the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) from targeting key mitotic regulators for destruction until all of the chromosomes have attached to the mitotic apparatus. A single unattached kinetochore can delay anaphase for several hours, but how it is able to block the APC/C throughout the cell is not understood. Present concepts of the SAC posit that either it exhibits an all-or-nothing response or there is a minimum threshold sufficient to block the APC/C (ref. 7). Here, we have used gene targeting to measure SAC activity, and find that it does not have an all-or-nothing response. Instead, the strength of the SAC depends on the amount of MAD2 recruited to kinetochores and on the amount of MCC formed. Furthermore, we show that different drugs activate the SAC to different extents, which may be relevant to their efficacy in chemotherapy.
Kinetic framework of spindle assembly checkpoint signalling.	The mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) delays anaphase onset until all chromosomes have attached to both spindle poles. Here, we investigated SAC signalling kinetics in response to acute detachment of individual chromosomes using laser microsurgery. Most detached chromosomes delayed anaphase until they had realigned to the metaphase plate. A substantial fraction of cells, however, entered anaphase in the presence of unaligned chromosomes. We identify two mechanisms by which cells can bypass the SAC: first, single unattached chromosomes inhibit the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) less efficiently than a full complement of unattached chromosomes; second, because of the relatively slow kinetics of re-imposing APC/C inhibition during metaphase, cells were unresponsive to chromosome detachment up to several minutes before anaphase onset. Our study defines when cells irreversibly commit to enter anaphase and shows that the SAC signal strength correlates with the number of unattached chromosomes. Detailed knowledge about SAC signalling kinetics is important for understanding the emergence of aneuploidy and the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutics targeting the mitotic spindle. 
Determinants of robustness in spindle assembly checkpoint signalling.	The spindle assembly checkpoint is a conserved signalling pathway that protects genome integrity. Given its central importance, this checkpoint should withstand stochastic fluctuations and environmental perturbations, but the extent of and mechanisms underlying its robustness remain unknown. We probed spindle assembly checkpoint signalling by modulating checkpoint protein abundance and nutrient conditions in fission yeast. For core checkpoint proteins, a mere 20% reduction can suffice to impair signalling, revealing a surprising fragility. Quantification of protein abundance in single cells showed little variability (noise) of critical proteins, explaining why the checkpoint normally functions reliably. Checkpoint-mediated stoichiometric inhibition of the anaphase activator Cdc20 (Slp1 in Schizosaccharomyces pombe) can account for the tolerance towards small fluctuations in protein abundance and explains our observation that some perturbations lead to non-genetic variation in the checkpoint response. Our work highlights low gene expression noise as an important determinant of reliable checkpoint signalling. 
Slipping past the spindle assembly checkpoint.	Error-free genome segregation depends on the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC), a signalling network that delays anaphase onset until chromosomes have established proper spindle attachments. Three reports now quantitatively examine the sensitivity and robustness of the SAC response. 
An improved optical tweezers assay for measuring the force generation of single kinesin molecules.	Numerous microtubule-associated molecular motors, including several kinesins and cytoplasmic dynein, produce opposing forces that regulate spindle and chromosome positioning during mitosis. The motility and force generation of these motors are therefore critical to normal cell division, and dysfunction of these processes may contribute to human disease. Optical tweezers provide a powerful method for studying the nanometer motility and piconewton force generation of single motor proteins in vitro. Using kinesin-1 as a prototype, we present a set of step-by-step, optimized protocols for expressing a kinesin construct (K560-GFP) in Escherichia coli, purifying it, and studying its force generation in an optical tweezers microscope. We also provide detailed instructions on proper alignment and calibration of an optical trapping microscope. These methods provide a foundation for a variety of similar experiments. 
Huntingtin regulates mammary stem cell division and differentiation.	Little is known about the mechanisms of mitotic spindle orientation during mammary gland morphogenesis. Here, we report the presence of huntingtin, the protein mutated in Huntington's disease, in mouse mammary basal and luminal cells throughout mammogenesis. Keratin 5-driven depletion of huntingtin results in a decreased pool and specification of basal and luminal progenitors, and altered mammary morphogenesis. Analysis of mitosis in huntingtin-depleted basal progenitors reveals mitotic spindle misorientation. In mammary cell culture, huntingtin regulates spindle orientation in a dynein-dependent manner. Huntingtin is targeted to spindle poles through its interaction with dynein and promotes the accumulation of NUMA and LGN. Huntingtin is also essential for the cortical localization of dynein, dynactin, NUMA, and LGN by regulating their kinesin 1-dependent trafficking along astral microtubules. We thus suggest that huntingtin is a component of the pathway regulating the orientation of mammary stem cell division, with potential implications for their self-renewal and differentiation properties. 
The spindle apparatus in early embryonic divisions of Ephestia kuehniella Z. (Pyralidae, Lepidoptera) is formed by alignment of minispindles.	Spindles were isolated from deposited eggs of the Mediterranean mealmoth, Ephestia kuehniella. Their structure and development were studied using anti-tubulin immunofluorescence. The microtubules were labelled with three different monoclonal antibodies. These were directed against beta-tubulin, tyrosinated alpha-tubulin and acetylated alpha-tubulin. Significant differences in the staining behaviour were not detected with the three antibodies. An unusual mode of spindle formation was observed during the first mitotic division after fusion of the pronuclei. Several of the ensuing embryonic divisions may show the same phenomenon. Prophase of these divisions was characterised by an irregular arrangement of microtubules in the nuclear area. The microtubular mass in the nuclear area increased concomitantly with chromosome condensation. Microtubular foci, comparable to the forming asters of canonical spindles, were not detected. The formation of an orderly pattern in the microtubule mass was signalled by the appearance of minispindles apparently developing around individual chromosomes. Several minispindles subsequently aligned and formed metaphase-like entities within the nuclear area. The metaphase-like entities, in turn, aligned with one another and gave rise to a conventional bipolar metaphase spindle with small asters. The further development of the spindle was conventional. The chromosomes migrated towards the spindle poles and finally daughter nuclei formed. The anaphase and telophase spindles possessed both a prominent array of interzone microtubules and asters. The events in prophase of early embryonic mitosis of E. kuehniella may represent a rare case of chromosome-induced spindle formation.
Segregation of minichromosomes in trypanosomes: implications for mitotic mechanisms.	In addition to 11 pairs of housekeeping chromosomes, the genome of Trypanosoma brucei contains approximately 100 minichromosomes that are probably involved in the ability of the parasite to evade the host's immune response. This minichromosomal population is segregated on the mitotic spindle. How this is achieved provides insight into potential segregation mechanisms for small DNA molecules in eukaryotic microorganisms.
