Hirayama flexion myelopathy: neutral-position MR imaging findings--importance of loss of attachment.	To investigate the sensitivity and specificity of various neutral-position magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings in the diagnosis of Hirayama flexion myelopathy.
The epidemiology and disease outcomes of human T-lymphotropic virus type II.	Human T-lymphotropic virus type II (HTLV-II) is a human retrovirus which is endemic in Amerindian and pygmy tribes. Molecular subtypes show geographic segregation consistent with an ancient origin of this virus within humans in Africa or South America. More recently, injection drug users in the United States and Europe have become infected with HTLV-II, and secondary sexual transmission has introduced the virus at low levels into the general population and blood donors. HTLV-II has been linked with a spastic paraparesis called HTLV-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), and perhaps with other neurological syndromes. It is also associated with an increased incidence of pneumonia and bronchitis, inflammatory conditions such as arthritis, and perhaps with increased mortality. Except for a few cases of cutaneous lymphoma in patients coinfected with HIV, there is no evidence that HTLV-II causes lymphoproliferative disease. HTLV-II and HIV coinfection has not been proven to alter the course of HIV disease, but such patients may have altered levels of CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes, and antiretroviral therapy may paradoxically increase HTLV-II proviral load.
Cervical angina: a seemingly still neglected symptom of cervical spine disorder?	Retrospective, case series.
Severe and long-lasting complications of the nerve root and spinal cord after central neuraxial blockade.	Although rare, major complications after spinal and epidural anesthesia do occur. We report the complications after central neuraxial blockade occurring in 2000 in France.
Delayed spinal cord deficits after thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair.	Limited information is available about the treatment and outcomes of delayed paraplegia after thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA) repair. The objective of this study was to assess factors that precipitate and favorably affect delayed-onset neurologic deficits.
Cervical high-intensity intramedullary lesions without spinal cord compression in achondroplasia.	In the authors' experience, the appearance of a cervical high-intensity intramedullary (CHII) lesion on magnetic resonance (MR) images in the absence of local spinal cord compression is frequently observed in patients with achondroplasia, although it has been mentioned only sporadically in the literature. Hence, the authors conducted a retrospective study in a consecutive single-center series of patients with achondroplasia to determine the prevalence and imaging features of this entity. They also reviewed the literature.
Dermal sinus tract of the spine.	Spinal dermal sinus tract (DST) is a rare entity which usually comes to clinical attention by cutaneous abnormalities, neurologic deficit, and/or infection. We performed this study to assess presentation patterns, associated anomalies, radiologic, urologic, and surgical findings in children afflicted with spinal DST.
Neurologic manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus-2: dementia, myelopathy, and neuropathy in West Africa.	While well documented in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1, neurologic sequelae have not been systematically evaluated in HIV-2. After excluding for confounding comorbidities, 67 individuals from a rural cohort in Guinea-Bissau (22 HIV-2 participants, 45 seronegative controls) were evaluated. HIV + individuals were divided into CD4 < 350 and CD4 ≥ 350 for analysis. HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), assessed by the International HIV Dementia Scale (IHDS), distal sensory polyneuropathy (DSPN), and myelopathy were the main outcome variables. In univariate analysis, there was no difference in IHDS scores among groups. When analyzed by primary education attainment, IHDS scores were nonsignificantly higher (p = 0.06) with more education. There was no significant difference in DSPN prevalence among groups; overall, 45% of participants had DSPN. There were no cases of myelopathy. In multivariate linear regression, higher IHDS scores were significantly correlated with older age (coefficient = -0.11, p < 0.001). Logistic regression analysis showed that older age (odds ratio (OR) 95% CI 1.04-1.20), lower CD4 count (OR 95% CI 0.996-0.999), and higher BMI (OR 95% CI 1.02-1.43) significantly predicted the presence of DSPN. While a significant increase in cognitive impairment was not observed in HIV-2-infected individuals, the study suggests the IHDS may be a less effective screening tool for HAND in settings of lower educational attainment as encountered in rural Guinea-Bissau. Similar to HIV-1, DSPN seems to occur with lower CD4 counts in HIV-2. Further study of the viral-host interactions in HIV-2 and its consequent neurological diseases may provide an avenue for understanding the epidemic problems of HIV-1.
Spinal cord injury in Manitoba: a provincial epidemiological study.	To define the epidemiological trends and identify populations at risk of traumatic and non-traumatic spinal cord injury (NTSCI) for the province of Manitoba, Canada.
Smoking behavior and delivery of evidence-based care for veterans with spinal cord injuries and disorders.	Little is known about those veterans with spinal cord injuries and disorders (SCI/D) who smoke cigarettes. This study identified the factors associated with smoking in this population, motivations for smoking, and the readiness for smoking cessation. Current practices for the delivery of evidence-based tobacco cessation were also examined.
Incidence and prevalence of spinal cord injury in Canada: a national perspective.	Despite decades of research, there are no national estimates of the incidence or prevalence of spinal cord injury (SCI) in Canada. Our objective was to utilize the best available data to estimate the incidence and prevalence of traumatic SCI (TSCI) and non-traumatic SCI (NTSCI) in Canada for 2010.
Factors determining the success of endovascular treatments among patients with spinal dural arteriovenous fistulas.	Despite improvements of embolization agents and techniques, endovascular treatment of spinal dural arteriovenous fistula (SDAVF) is still limited by inconsistent success. The aim of embolization is to occlude initial portion of the draining vein by liquid embolic materials. This study investigates factors that contribute to the success of embolization treatments among SDAVF patients.
Spinal cysticercosis.	Myelopathy in a Cambodian patient proved to be due to cysticercosis. Spinal cysticercosis is rare, and Indochina is an unusual place to have acquired it.
Cervical myelopathy secondary to ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament in a Caucasian patient.	Cervical myelopathy consequent on ossification of posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) is very rare in Caucasians. A 65-year-old Anglo-Saxon woman developed progressive gait disturbance, paresthesia in both legs and urinary urge incontinence. Radiological examination showed OPLL from fifth to seventh cervical vertebral level; the dense OPLL was graphically displayed by three-dimensional computerized tomography. Medial corpectomy, C5 to C7, and removal of OPLL, with subsequent fusion C4 to T1 using a free fibula graft resulted in clinical improvement. Three dimensional computerized tomographic imaging is a valuable diagnostic procedure in OPLL.
