Chondrosarcoma of the spine: 1954 to 1997.	Primary chondrosarcoma of the spine is extremely rare. During the last 43 years only 21 patients with this disease were registered at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. The purpose of this study was to examine the demographic characteristics, treatments, and outcomes of this set of patients.
Extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma of bone.	Small cell carcinoma has been reported to arise in many extrathoracic sites. However, such tumours arising from bone have not been previously described. We report what we believe is the first reported case of extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma of bone. The tumour arose from the fifth dorsal vertebra in a 60 year old woman. The patient was treated with local radiotherapy and combination chemotherapy and remains in remission, 18 months after diagnosis. As such extrathoracic small cell tumours are rare, there seem to be no clear-cut guidelines for treating them, but combination chemotherapy is recommended.
Solitary bone plasmocytoma: treatment and outcome features]	- To describe natural history of solitary bone plasmocytomas (SBO) after treatment.
Case report: cisplatin-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome.	Two patients developed noncardiogenic pulmonary edema (NCPE), following red blood cell transfusion in a setting of acute cisplatin nephropathy. One manifested the full picture of hemolytic uremic syndrome, the other had transient features following blood transfusion. We further reviewed the clinical records on blood transfusion for all patients with cisplatin nephropathy. A third case of (NCPE) was identified in a patient with acute renal dysfunction. However, none of the 16 patients with cisplatin-induced, mild stable chronic renal impairment had pulmonary dysfunction or other laboratory evidence for microangiopathy following transfusion. Hemolytic uremic syndrome may be a rare manifestation of cisplatin toxicity. Caution is indicated in transfusing patients with acute platinum nephropathy even in the absence of overt microangiopathy. The pathogenesis of this syndrome and the cause for NCPE is unclear. The literature is reviewed and discussed.
Percutaneous intratumoral injection with pingyangmycin lipiodol emulsion for the treatment of recurrent sacrococcygeal chordomas.	This study describes fluoroscopy-guided percutaneous intratumoral injection therapy (PIIT) with a pingyangmycin lipiodol emulsion in the management of recurrent sacrococcygeal chordomas after surgical excision. Seven patients underwent a total of 22 treatment sessions (3-4 sessions per patient); treatment responses were evaluated clinically, and lesion size was determined using computed tomography (CT). Over 10-26 months of follow-up, tumor sizes and visual analogue scale (VAS) scores of all patients were decreased. No patients had complications during the follow-up period. Preliminary results showed that PIIT with pingyangmycin lipiodol emulsion under fluoroscopic guidance is effective and safe and may be considered as a treatment option.
Positron emission tomography with computed tomography (PET-CT) to evaluate the response of bone metastases to non-surgical treatment.	A case of solitary bone metastasis from breast cancer, where MRI assessment of treatment response was inaccurate and whole-body fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)FDG) positron emission tomography with computed tomography (PET-CT) proved more reliable and objective, is presented.
Less invasive palliative surgery for spinal metastases.	There may be patients with spinal metastasis for whom neither vertebroplasty/kyphoplasty nor open surgery is appropriate. Percutaneous pedicle screw fixation (PPSF) may fill the gap between techniques.
Stage 0 osteonecrosis of the jaw in a patient on denosumab.	Osteonecrosis of the jaws (ONJ) is a complex disease involving multiple tissue and cell-type responses to wound healing or infection. AAOMS defines bisphosphonate related ONJ (BRONJ) as exposed, necrotic bone in the maxillofacial region that has persisted for more than 8 weeks in a patient with current or previous antiresorptive treatment, without a history of radiation therapy to the jaws. Since the first reported ONJ cases in 2003 and 2004, there has been little advancement in understanding the etiology and pathophysiology of ONJ. Many hypotheses have been proposed, including bisphosphonate (BP) toxicity to oral epithelium, altered wound healing after tooth extraction, high turnover of the mandible and maxilla, oral biofilm formation, infection and inflammation, and suppression of angiogenesis and bone turnover. The current classification system of ONJ involves stages 0 to 3 and is based on patient clinical presentation. This report describes a case of stage 0 ONJ in a patient on denosumab and indicates the full-spectrum similarities between BP- and denosumab-associated ONJ clinically, radiographically, and histologically. 
Hormone-dependent spinal leiomyoma.	A 43-year-old woman underwent subtotal removal of a cervical spinal leiomyoma in 1980 and 1981. When her (cyclic) symptoms recurred and tumor growth was demonstrated, she was treated with a synthetic anti-gonadotropic hormone (Danazol; Danatrol) until menopause, when medication could be discontinued without further recurrence of her symptoms or increase in size of the residual tumor.
Low-dose Adriamycin remission maintenance therapy for pediatric solid tumors.	A low-dose maintenance schedule of Adriamycin was evaluated in six children whose metastatic solid tumors regressed following toxic induction therapy with Adriamycin. Three of these children are now disease-free more than one year following discontinuation of therapy. Adriamycin can be given on a low-dose maintenance schedule free from alopecia, fever, stomatitis, myelosuppression and recognizable cardiomyopathy. Further studies of similar schedules are warranted.
Clinical results of nonsurgical treatment for spinal metastases.	In contrast with many analyses of surgical treatment for spinal metastases, there have been only a few recent well-documented publications assessing nonsurgical treatment. This paper is a study of the outcome of nonsurgical therapy for metastatic tumors of the spine.
The control of severe cancer pain by continuous intrathecal infusion and patient controlled intrathecal analgesia with morphine, bupivacaine and clonidine.	The management of severe cancer pain may be problematic in spite of recent advances in pain management. A small percentage of patients with severe intractable pain and/or intractable side effects may require more aggressive interventional pain management strategies including the administration of medications continuously by the intrathecal route. A variety of medications, including morphine, bupivacaine, and clonidine, may be used intrathecally for the control of cancer pain. Optimal use of these medications requires individual titration to the patient's needs. We describe a case of severe cancer pain where these medications were used successfully by continuous intrathecal infusion and patient controlled intrathecal analgesia.
