Effects of embryonic neural stem cells and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the repair of spinal cord injury]	The ability of implanted embryonic neural stem cells (NSCs) to improve survival, migration, and functional recovery following a compression spinal cord injury (SCI) was tested in adult rats. NSCs were isolated from E14-16 rat cerebral cortex and SCI was produced by using an aneurysm clip applicator applied to the 8th thoracic spinal cord according to method of Dolan and Tator. Two weeks after the injury, NSCs (4 microl of 1 x 10(4) cells/microl) were injected into the lesion site. The grafted NSCs were noted to survive and integrate with the host spinal cord 1 month after transplantation, which was demonstrated by the presence of Hoechst 33342 (a nuclear dye) pre-labeled NSCs within and surrounding the lesion site. Some of these cells remained undifferentiated and were stained with nestin, a marker for NSCs. Transplanted NSCs migrated for at least 3 mm from the injury epicenter towards both the rostral and caudal directions. Significant reduction in the lesion area (P<0.05) and improvement in inclined plane (P<0.05) and BBB locomotor rating scale (P<0.05) were found in the cases that received implantation of NSCs, as compared with those that received vehicle injection. More importantly, when glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF; 1.5 microg/microl) was added to the transplants, further reduction in lesion area (P<0.01) and improvement in the function were observed in the combined treatment group as compared with the vehicle infused group. Our results suggest that intraspinal treatment with NSCs and GDNF synergistically reduced lesion size and improved functional outcome after a compressive SCI in adult rats.
Nasal OEC transplantation promotes respiratory recovery in a subchronic rat model of cervical spinal cord contusion.	Engraftment of nasal olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC) is considered as a promising therapeutic strategy for spinal cord repair and one clinical trial has already been initiated. However, while the vast majority of fundamental studies were focused on the recovery of locomotor function, the efficiency of this cellular tool for repairing respiratory motor dysfunction, which affects more than half of paraplegic/tetraplegic patients, remains unknown. Using a rat model that mimics the mechanisms encountered after a cervical contusion that induces a persistent hemi-diaphragmatic paralysis, we assessed the therapeutic efficiency of a delayed transplantation (2 weeks post-contusion) of nasal OECs within the injured spinal cord. Functional recovery was quantified with respiratory behavior tests, diaphragmatic electromyography and neuro-electrophysiological recording of the phrenic motoneurons while axogenesis was evaluated using immunohistochemistry. We show that 3 months post-transplantation, nasal OECs improve i) breathing movements, ii) activities of the ipsilateral diaphragm and corresponding phrenic nerve, and iii) axonal sprouting in the injury site. We also demonstrate that this functional partial recovery is mediated by the restoration of ipsilateral supraspinal command. Our study brings further evidence that olfactory ensheathing cells could have clinical application especially in tetraplegic patients with impaired breathing movements. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Understanding olfactory ensheathing glia and their prospect for nervous system repair.
Species-specific control of cellular proliferation and the impact of large animal models for the use of olfactory ensheathing cells and Schwann cells in spinal cord repair.	Autologous transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) and Schwann cells (SCs) is considered a promising option to promote axonal regrowth and remyelination after spinal cord injury in humans. However, if the experimental data from the rodent model can be directly extrapolated to humans, as widely believed, remains to be established. While limitations of the rodent system have recently been discussed with regard to the distinct organization of the motor systems, the question whether OECs and SCs may display species-specific properties has not been fully addressed. Prompted by recent studies on canine and porcine glia, we performed a detailed analysis of the in vitro and in vivo properties of OECs and SCs and show that rodent but not human, monkey, porcine, and canine glia require mitogens for in vitro expansion, display a complex response to elevated intracellular cAMP, and undergo spontaneous immortalization upon prolonged mitogen stimulation. These data indicate fundamental inter-species differences of the control of cellular proliferation. Whether OECs and SCs from large animals and humans share growth-promoting in vivo properties with their rodent counterpart is not yet clear. Autologous implantation studies in humans did not reveal adverse effects of cell transplantation so far. However, in vivo studies of large animal or human glia and rodent recipients mainly focused on the remyelinating potential of the transplanted cells. Thus, further experimental in vivo studies in large animals are essential to fully define the axonal growth-promoting potential of OECs and SCs. Based on the homology of the in vitro growth control between porcine, canine and human glia, it is concluded that these species may serve as valuable translational models for scaling up human procedures. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Understanding olfactory ensheathing glia and their prospect for nervous system repair.
