Trunk deformity is associated with a reduction in outdoor activities of daily living and life satisfaction in community-dwelling older people.	We have evaluated the association between trunk deformities of the sagittal plane and functional impairment of daily living in community-dwelling elderly subjects. The analysis involved a detailed assessment of indoor and outdoor activities of daily living, satisfaction with life, and mental status. The participants in this study were 236 community-dwelling older adults, aged 65 years and older, living in Kahoku district of Kochi in Japan. The participants were classified based on their posture, which was assessed using photographs of the subjects, and interviewed to assess their basic activities of daily living (BADL), instrumental ADL (IADL), and cognitive well-being in the cross-sectional study. The statistical analysis was performed using the Mann-Whitney U-test. The lumbar kyphosis group received significantly lower BADL and IADL scores than the normal group. The trunk deformity group which were defined as kyphosis, flat back, and lumbar lordosis groups exhibited decreases in activities that included going out, shopping, depositing and withdrawing money, and visiting friends in the hospital. These activities require going outdoors; thus, this study showed that the trunk deformity group had limitations in outdoor activities. There was no significant difference between the geriatric depression score (GDS) and the pattern of posture. The abnormal trunk deformity groups tended to score lower than the normal group with regard to subjective healthiness and life satisfaction measures, including subjective health condition, everyday feeling, satisfaction with human relationships, satisfaction with economic condition, and satisfaction with present life.
Cervical spine curvature and craniofacial morphology in an adult Caucasian group: a multiple regression analysis.	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between cervical curvature and skeletal facial morphology. Pre-treatment lateral cephalograms in natural head position were obtained from 98 orthodontic adult subjects (56 males and 42 females; mean age = 31.5 years, standard deviation +/-5.8 years). The amount of concavity of the cervical curvature was calculated by a second-order quadratic interpolation of the most infero-posterior points of the bodies of the seven cervical vertebrae on the radiographs. Linear regression with stepwise elimination was carried out to evaluate the sagittal and vertical craniofacial dimensions. The results revealed that the amount of curvature was related to (1) the horizontal position of the upper incisors with respect to the maxillary and mandibular skeletal bases and (2) the sagittal millimetric dimension of the maxillary base. These cephalometric variables explained 51 per cent of the total variance of cervical curvature. There was no significant correlation between cervical curvature and any other cephalometric variable. Cervical curvature was not influenced by age or gender.
Intra- and interobserver repeatability of the assessment of anteroposterior curvatures of the spine using Saunders digital inclinometer.	According to the requirements of Evidence Based Medicine, every research tool and method should be subjected to reliability evaluation. A variety of inclinometers are used for the assessment of sagittal plane spinal curvatures in clinical practice. The aim of the study was to evaluate the intra- and interobserver repeatability of measurements of the anterior-posterior spinal curvatures taken with Saunders digital inclinometer.
