Aneurysmal bone cysts of the spine.	Thirteen patients with aneurysmal bone cyst of the spine (excluding sacral lesions) were retrospectively reviewed. Treatment for aneurysmal bone cysts remains controversial, but surgical resection, irradiation, and embolization are common treatment modalities for those involving the spine. Of 102 patients with aneurysmal bone cysts, 15 had a lesion of the spine, including 2 sacral cases. Of the 13 patients with a lesion of the thoracic or lumbar spine, 9 underwent resection of the lesion, 2 curettage and cementation, and 2 only currettage. Eleven patients underwent segmental arthrodesis with instrumentation after treatment of the primary or recurrent lesion, while 2 patients underwent segmental arthrodesis using autogeneic bone. Nine patients did not develop a local recurrence after resection of the lesion. However, the 2 patients who underwent curettage alone developed local recurrences. None of 4 patients developed recurrences after curettage and cementation. After recurrence, 1 patient underwent additional resection with irradiation, and 1 patient underwent resection alone. At the final follow-up, all lesions were under control. In one patient, lumbar kyphosis developed after segmental arthrodesis with instrumentation, and arthrodesis was performed again. Radical resection of aneurysmal bone cysts of the spine with instrumentation is the optimal method of acquiring a high degree of local control and preventing spinal deformity.
One-stage posterior decompression and reconstruction of the cervical spine by using pedicle screw fixation systems.	This retrospective study was conducted to analyze the results of one-stage posterior decompression and reconstruction of the cervical spine by using pedicle screw fixation systems in 46 patients.
Artificial disc replacement with the modular type SB Charité III: 2-year results in 50 prospectively studied patients.	The Modular Type SB Charite disc prosthesis has been developed as a device for artificial disc replacement (ADR) in patients with symptomatic discopathies. Here, we report on our first series of 50 (out of 350) patients, who had a satisfactory clinical result in 70% of cases (2 years' follow-up). Subgroup analysis revealed that patients with an isolated discopathy without previous spinal operations or other pathology at the same or other spinal level benefitted more from the surgery. However, this technique was associated with some problems: a 13% rate of permanent side-effects and/or complications was observed caused by the anterior approach. Four percent were related to poor implantation technique. There were no problems related to the material of the prosthesis. Twelve patients needed re-operation, but this was beneficial in only three of them. In one patient we had to convert to an interbody fusion. We conclude that in patients with severe isolated symptomatic discopathies that are resistant to conservative treatment, a mobile disc prosthesis is worth considering as a real alternative to a spondylodesis. However, accurate patient selection is imperative. With these criteria we were encouraged by our results to continue the implantation of this artificial disc.
Visual analog scales for interpretation of back and leg pain intensity in patients operated for degenerative lumbar spine disorders.	A prospective observational study of visual analog scale (VAS) scores for pain in patients operated at one institution within the framework of a national registry.
Use of epidural analgesia for pain management after major spinal surgery.	This is a retrospective study of the role of postoperative epidural analgesia in major spinal surgical procedures. With the number and complexity of the procedures performed on the spine ever-increasing, this method of analgesia is becoming more important.
Biomechanical comparison of the stable efficacy of two anterior plating systems.	To compare the immediate stable efficacy and load sharing effect of two types of anterior cervical screw-plating instrumentations: the Morscher Synthes titanium locking screw-plate system and the Caspar trapezoidal screw-plate system.
Outcome of and complications associated with prophylactic percutaneous laser disk ablation in dogs with thoracolumbar disk disease: 277 cases (1992-2001).	To determine outcome of and complications associated with prophylactic percutaneous laser disk ablation in dogs with thoracolumbar disk disease.
Lumbosacral arachnoiditis.	One hundred patients with lumbosacral adhesive arachnoiditis documented either directly at surgery or by unequivocal myelography served as the basis for this report on the pathologic process. Nomenclature for this disease, involving radiculitis, arachnoiditis, and adhesive arachnoiditis, is proposed. The entity appears not to be rare, as previously thought, but common in patients with severe back and/or leg pain and functional incapacitation due to the failed back surgery syndrome. While true incidence and relationship to a combination of causal factors remains to be accurately documented, the importance of Pantopaque in contributing to this disease process appears to be quite significant.
Experimental and clinical substantiation of the functional transpedicular stabilization of the vertebral column]	Metallic construction for transpecular stabilization (transpedicular constructions T-TPC). Titanium nickelide (TiNi) alloys have come into existence in the surgical treatment of diseases of the vertebral column and spinal cord. The properties of these alloys are the storage of a shape, superelasticity, and cyclic longevity. The adequate mechanical behavior of live tissues and TiNi-based alloys suggests that metallic constructions made from TiNi are more physiological and functional than those made from steels and titanium alloys. The foregoing makes it possible to consider the design of metallic constructions to be promising for transpedicular spinal stabilization involving the latter's reliability and stability with the physiological and functional capacities of TiNi fixing arms. The study performed computer-assisted simulation of surgical treatment for different spinal diseases by using TPC by means of the programme package ANSYS and statistical and cyclic studies of TPC up to the international standards on a Terotest testing machine. The experimental findings were used to formulate recommendation to use TPC of varying rigidity to treat spinal injuries and diseases. Eight operations were performed to treat patients with diseases of the lower thoracic and lumbar parts of the vertebral column, by using TiNi rod of the optimum rigidity, which yielded good clinical results.
Meralgia paraesthetica following lumbar spine surgery: a study in 110 consecutive surgically treated cases.	Lateral cutaneous femoral nerve (LCFN) injury or Meralgia paraesthetica (MP) results in restriction of activity. Compression of the nerve by disc hernia, retroperitoneal tumors, and external pressure around the anterior superior iliac spine is common. However, it is not commonly observed after lumbar spinal surgery in prone position.
Two-year observation of artificial intervertebral disc replacement: results after supplemental ultra-high strength bioresorbable spinal stabilization.	This 2-year experimental study was conducted to investigate the efficacy of a bioactive three-dimensional (3D) fabric disc for lumbar intervertebral disc replacement. The authors used a bioresorbable spinal fixation rod consisting of a forged composite of particulate unsintered hydroxyapatite/poly-L-lactide acid (HA/PLLA) for stability augmentation. The biomechanical and histological alterations as well as possible device-related loosening were examined at 2 years postoperatively.
Vertebral body replacement in spine surgery]	Autografts and allogeneous bone grafts as well as cages are used for the reconstruction of the anterior column after corpectomy. Recently, expandable cages for vertebral body replacement have been developed. Based on our own experience, the purpose of this study was to summarize the available biomechanical and clinical data of expandable corpectomy cages and to compare it with established fixation techniques. If used correctly, expandable cages offer several surgical advantages in comparison to non-expandable cages. However there were no significant differences between the biomechanical properties of expandable and non-expandable cages. Additionally, design variations of expandable corpectomy cages did not show any significant impact on the biomechanical stability. Currently available mid-term clinical and radiological data on the treatment of fractures, metastasis and infection of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar spine demonstrated no significant difference between expandable and non-expandable cages. However, the increased stress-shielding effect of expandable cages compared to non-expandable cages might result in a deterioration of the long-term clinical outcome.
Anatomical and pathological considerations in percutaneous vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty: a reappraisal of the vertebral venous system.	To focus attention of the clinician on the anatomy and (patho)physiology of the vertebral venous system, so as to offer a tool to better understand and anticipate (potential) complications that are related to the application of percutaneous vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty.
Spinal operations performed in prone position: pulmonary gas exchange, hemodynamics, and possible complications]	Invasive and non-invasive studies have been used to study the cardiac and respiratory systems in 93 patients during prolonged prone surgical interventions into the vertebral column. Pronounced hemodynamic changes have been found to be absent at the stage of anesthetic anesthesia and while turning the patient with to the prone position. Gas exchange is determined by the increase in alveolar dead space, PaCO2, and PaO2. The position complications during these interventions are caused by errors while placing the patient on an operating table.
Minimal access spinal technologies: state-of-the-art, indications, and techniques.	Minimal access spinal technologies aim primarily at minimizing the trauma associated with surgical exposure of the spine. They owe their existence mainly to recent progress in optical and imaging devices and to the development of instrumentations specifically designed for insertion via minimally invasive approaches. No published scientific studies have proved that minimally invasive techniques are superior over standard techniques. However, patients benefit from the decreased postoperative pain, shorter hospital stay, and expedited return to normal activities. Finally, minimal access spinal technologies are evolving at a fast pace. Progress is being made in defining the indications, and assessable results have been obtained for a number of lesions. This article describes the main techniques and highlights the beneficial effects on patient comfort.
Iatrogenic paraplegia in spinal surgery.	Paraplegia as a result of a surgical spinal procedure is a rare complication. The risk cannot be precisely quantified due to the lack of current data. The aim of this study was to record a sufficiently large number of major spinal operations, especially extended methods in scoliosis surgery. Hereby, a reliable statement regarding the risk of severe neurological complications with these surgical techniques should be possible. First, a retrospective analysis of patients from a German spine centre (spinal fusion) and a survey of 17 German centres of spinal surgery were conducted for the retrospective acquisition of severe iatrogenic neurological complications.
Efficacy of novel-concept pedicle screw fixation augmented with calcium phosphate cement in the osteoporotic spine.	Pedicle screw instrumentation has become increasingly popular for rigid internal stabilization of the thoracolumbar spine. However, when pedicle screws are used in elderly osteoporotic patients, the screw-bone interface is stripped easily. Therefore, the risk of screw loosening and backing-out after surgery has increased. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the novel-concept pedicle screw fixation augmented with calcium phosphate cement (CPC) in the osteoporotic spine. The novel-concept screw has the same shape as the ordinary screw, but it is hollow and fabricated with 20 small holes (1.3 mm in diameter) leading to the hollow part on the bottom of the thread. Fifteen embalmed cadaveric lumbar vertebrae were instrumented with two types of pedicle screw (the ordinary screw and the novel-concept screw) in each pedicle. Only the novel-concept screws were augmented with CPC after insertion. Seven days later, axial pull-out testing was performed at a crosshead speed of 10 mm/min. The mean maximal pull-out strength of the ordinary screws was 258 N, and that of the novel concept screws was 637 N. These results suggest that the novel-concept screw augmented with CPC can be useful for pedicle screw fixation of the osteoporotic spine.
Isolated L4-L5 fusions using the variable screw placement system: unilateral versus bilateral.	Thirty-six patients were retrospectively followed an average of 25.1 months to evaluate the relative effectiveness of unilateral (16 patients) versus bilateral (20 patients) variable screw placement (VSP) instrumentation in isolate L4-L5 fusions. Demographic variables and preoperative diagnoses were similar between treatment groups. Outcome was assessed primarily through evaluation of plain roentgenograms and self-report questionnaires. Use of VSP instrumentation at the L4-L5 level with autogenous posterolateral grafting achieved a successful fusion rate of 97% with minimal complications. Fusion results with unilateral instrumentation were nearly identical to those of bilateral; in both cases, results were better than most historical controls for noninstrumented fusions in situ. Clinical outcome, as obtained through standardized measurement techniques of pain and function, demonstrated 69% excellent and good results. Clinical outcome was similar between treatment groups yet was not significantly related to the fusion status obtained at follow-up.
Experience with the "fixateur interne": initial clinical results.	Impressive clinical reports have come from several major spinal research centers regarding the results of using the AO spinal internal fixator, a recently released pedicle screw rod system. A retrospective review of the first 2 years of clinical results from a diverse group of orthopedic surgeons using this device at a Canadian University center may provide some insight into potential clinical outcomes in general use. These results contrast with the outcome data provided to date, which have been presented by expert academic spinal surgeons. The results suggest that there may be room for considering limited release of this device, perhaps with the requirement for special certification in its application.
A computer touch-screen version of the North American Spine Society outcome assessment instrument for the lumbar spine.	We validated the North American Spine Society (NASS) outcome-assessment instrument for the lumbar spine in a computerised touch-screen format and assessed patients' acceptance, taking into account previous computer experience, age and gender. Fifty consecutive patients with symptomatic and radiologically-proven degenerative disease of the lumbar spine completed both the hard copy (paper) and the computerised versions of the NASS questionnaire. Statistical analysis showed high agreement between the paper and the touch-screen computer format for both subscales (intraclass correlation coefficient 0.94, 95% confidence interval (0.90 to 0.97)) independent of computer experience, age and gender. In total, 55% of patients stated that the computer format was easier to use and 66% preferred it to the paper version (p < 0.0001 among subjects expressing a preference). Our data indicate that the touch-screen format is comparable to the paper form. It may improve follow-up in clinical practice and research by meeting patients' preferences and minimising administrative work.
Surgical management for low back pain. Rationale and indication]	Various spinal diseases that cause low back pain have two distinct pathologies, including mechanical disruption of the spinal column and compression of the cauda equina and the nerve roots. Although, the advancement in surgical techniques has brought satisfactory neural recovery, resolution of low back pain still remains unpredictable. The development of low back pain is affected by psychosocial factors besides pathological lesions in the lumbar spine leading to functional impairment. Surgical indication for low back should be carefully decided considering such nonorganic aspects of low back pain.
Indication and surgical methods of lumbosacral spinal fusion for lumbal degenerative diseases]	In degenerative lumbar spinal diseases with low back pain and leg pain, the indications for lumbar spinal fusion are not clear. It is unclear for the following reasons. The definition of instability is not clear. And it is also difficult to observe the exact source of the low back pain. In addition, there are limited numbers of randomized prospective study about the usefulness of spine fusion. Controversy still exists for when spinal instrumentation should be used. A spinal surgeon performs a posterolateral fusion or a posterior interbody fusion with or without instrumentation, mainly based on his experience and belief.
Fracture of anterior cervical plate implant--report of two cases.	Anterior cervical plate is a convenient and popular implant employed after corpectomy and bone grafting for traumatic or degenerative cervical spine disease. Although short-segment anterior cervical surgery may adequately be managed with anterior plate fixation alone, multilevel anterior cervical constructs exhibit a relatively high complication rate warranting a simultaneous posterior fusion. We report two patients undergoing two-level anterior corpectomy/fusion with a fixed anterior plate alone and exhibiting plate fracture in conjunction with pseudoarthrosis. The instrument failure was mainly attributed to pseudoarthrosis. However, improper contouring of the plate causing microstructural damage might create a weak point and contributed to this unusual hardware failure.
The prophylactic use of inferior vena cava filters in patients undergoing high-risk spinal surgery.	Prophylactic inferior vena cava filter (IVCF) placement is advocated in some high-risk groups. We sought data regarding safety and efficacy for prophylactic IVCF placement in patients at high risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE) following major spinal reconstruction. Seventy-four spine surgery patients with contraindication to anticoagulation (44 females, 30 males; mean age 56.2) received prophylactic IVCFs. Criteria were (1) history of thromboembolism, (2) diagnosed thrombophilia, (3) malignancy, (4) bedridden >2 weeks prior to surgery, (5) staged procedures or multiple levels, (6) combined anterior/posterior approaches, (7) expected need for significant iliocaval manipulation during exposure, and (8) single-stage anesthetic time >8 hr. Seventy patients had at least two risk factors. All received IVCFs prior to the first stage of spine reconstruction. Patients were evaluated for filter complications, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and pulmonary embolism (PE). Patients' lower extremity veins from groin to ankle were imaged weekly until discharge using duplex ultrasound (DUS). One-third also underwent thoracic and pelvic computed tomography scans, and the pelvic veins, IVC, and pulmonary vasculature were evaluated for VTE. Multiple DUS (n = 198, mean 2.6 studies per patient) were performed in 68 patients. At a mean follow-up of 11 months, one of the patients developed PE. Twenty-seven limbs in 23 patients developed DVT. Five limbs had isolated calf DVT, and 22 had proximal vein involvement. Insertion site DVT accounted for nearly one-third of the DVTs. Six patients died from unrelated complications. There was one technical error with an IVCF deployed in the iliac vein. Despite a high incidence of DVT following high-risk spinal surgery, prophylactic IVCF placement appears to protect patients from PE.
The role of vascularized bone grafts in spine surgery.	The use of vascularized bone grafts in complex spine reconstruction is particularly attractive in situations that involve large segmental bone defects, failed previous attempts at arthrodesis, poor soft tissue beds secondary to infection or radiation exposure necrosis or failed arthrodesis in neuromuscular disease processes. This article details the indications and rationale for vascularized bone grafting as well as the results of vascularized bone grafting of the spine.
The decision-making process: allograft versus autograft.	The decision whether to use allograft or autograft in ventral cervical fusions has been widely discussed. The literature includes several prospective randomized trials. Extensive clinical evidence indicates that autograft use results in increased arthrodesis rates and less graft collapse. However, autograft harvest has a substantial morbidity rate. Allografts avoid the morbidity associated with autograft harvest but result in decreased arthrodesis rates and increased graft collapse rates. The decreased arthrodesis rate associated with allografts becomes more significant in multilevel surgery and in patients who smoke. The introduction and use of ventral cervical plates have made allograft use more attractive by increasing arthrodesis rates and decreasing graft collapse.
Neurosurgery in old age. II: CNS tumors--cerebrospinal-vascular diseases--pain surgery--conclusions]	The relative percentage of patients who are admitted to our clinic with benign tumours often susceptible to therapy has increased from 23% (1974) to 55% (1989). In patients over 60 years old, these are above all cranial tumours (most frequently meningiomas), whereas metastases predominate at the spinal cord. 8% of the cranial meningiomas show an apoplectiform course (mostly steal effects). On the other hand, very large cranial meningiomas causing few symptoms are particularly frequent in elderly patients (larger reserve space, reduced tendency to edema). The use of minimally damaging surgical approaches, palliative operations and possibly a cautious radicality adapted to location and extent are especially important for tumour surgery in elderly patients, especially for tumours with a low tendency to proliferate. Our own experience in vascular pathology concern arteriovenous aneurysms and the diagnosis/therapy of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage and space-occupying malacia in the region of the cerebrum and the cerebellum. Epidural hematomas and the spinal dural arteriovenous fistulae which often become manifest at an advanced age owing to increasing medullary venous stasis are of particular therapeutic importance in elderly patients. Depending on the situation, direct surgical elimination or treatment by selective embolization may be considered. Typical trigeminal neuralgia is especially frequent in patients over 60 years in neurosurgical treatment of very severe therapy-resistant pain. Whereas the microvascular decompression of the trigeminal roots near the pons (compression by arterial loops) is most important in younger patients, we use the minimally invasive, relatively simple percutaneous thermo-rhizotomy in the Gasserian ganglion with selective functional elimination of the thinner pain fibers in elderly patients. Ablative measures are otherwise possible, above all in nociceptive pain, whereas the stimulation of the lemniscal system is of primary significance in deafferentation pain (e.g. causalgia). Spinal stimulation in inoperable peripheral arterial occlusive disease (leg, pelvis) to improve the microcirculation is of special importance: The prospect of success is greater than 80% in Fontain stage III. We do not apply subarachnoid spinal morphine administration only in malignancies, in contrast to intraventricular morphine administration (right anterior horn). For elderly patients with very severe inoperable lumbar stenosis (mostly spondylarthritis), the dosage-controlled continuous low-dose subarachnoid administration of morphine via a subcutaneously implanted programmable pump with a reservoir is suitable in some cases. These examples show that neurosurgery may be appropriate even in elderly patients. Today, more differentiated and at the same time minimally invasive diagnostic and surgical methods are available.
Efficacy and complications of patient-controlled analgesia treatment after spinal surgery.	Postoperative pain is one of the most common therapeutic problems in hospitals. Patient-controlled analgesia has gained popularity over the last decade in dealing with this problem. The goal of this article is to examine the effect of PCA in patients who underwent spinal fusion and to measure its effect on the different sexes and age groups.
Keyhole partial laminectomy and tapping technique combined blind transpedicular screw placement in cervical spine]	To investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of keyhole partial laminectomy and tapping technique combined blindly transpedicular screw placement in cervical spine.
Intraoperative monitoring of motor-evoked potentials in children undergoing spinal surgery.	Clinical case series.
Anterior approaches to fusion of the cervical spine: a metaanalysis of fusion rates.	Anterior cervical discectomy (ACD), ACD with interbody fusion (ACDF), ACDF with placement of an anterior plate system (ACDFP), corpectomy, and corpectomy with plate placement are used to fuse the cervical spine. The authors conducted a metaanalysis of studies published after 1990 in which fusion rates achieved with each procedure were reported for patients with degenerative disease at one, two, and three disc levels.
Pedicle screw fixation (T1, T2, and T3).	The indications for thoracic pedicle screw fixation have expanded over the past decade. Thoracic pedicle screws are now being used in the treatment of degenerative, traumatic, neoplastic, congenital, and developmental disorders. The pedicles of T1, T2, and T3 are typically large and ovoid in shape and amenable to pedicle screw fixation in most instances. The placement of thoracic pedicle screws requires knowledge of the topographic and deep bony anatomy of the thoracic spine as well as an appreciation of the surrounding visceral structures at risk. With strict adherence to the surgical techniques of insertion, thoracic pedicle screw fixation is a safe and effective method of stabilization. It offers several advantages over other forms of fixation, especially in the upper thoracic spine where the options are limited.
C1 lateral screws and C2 pedicle/pars screws.	A variety of techniques exist for fixation of the upper cervical spine. The development of universal posterior cervical screw-rod instrumentation systems has resulted in recent interest in new and stable segmental fixation into C1 and C2. The C1 lateral mass is a safe and robust anchor point; however, the anatomic corridor to access the screw entry portal is unfamiliar. Understanding the C1 bony landmarks and the course and relationship of the soft-tissue structures (such as the vertebral artery and the C2 nerve root) is critically important. Alternative techniques for achieving segmental screw fixation into C2 are being developed. With polyaxial screw heads and lateral offset connectors, screw anchors can be driven into the most sturdy and safest aspects of C2 without concern for the position of the longitudinal rod.
Robotic assisted spinal surgery--from concept to clinical practice.	After several years of product development, animal trials and human cadaver testing, the SpineAssist--a miniature bone-mounted robotic system--has recently entered clinical use. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the only available image-based mechanical guidance system that enables pedicle screw insertion with an overall accuracy in the range of 1 mm in both open and minimally invasive procedures. In this paper, we describe the development and clinical trial process that has brought the SpineAssist to its current state, with an emphasis on the various difficulties encountered along the way and the corresponding solutions. All aspects of product development are discussed, including mechanical design, CT-to-fluoroscopy image registration, and surgical techniques. Finally, we describe a series of preclinical trials with human cadavers, as well as clinical use, which verify the system's accuracy and efficacy.
Urethral catheterization in spinal surgery: a randomized prospective study.	In a prospective randomized study the effect of the use of an intraoperative indwelling urethral catheter (IUC) on urinary complications was investigated in patients undergoing spinal fusion. Two groups were formed; 16 patients received an intraoperative IUC and 16 patients had no intraoperative catheter (NC). All patients were, if necessary, intermittently catheterized in the postoperative period. Seven of the patients in the IUC group had positive cultures, defined as > or = 100,000 CFU/ml, compared with two patients in the NC group (n.s.). Another four patients in the NC group had cultures > or =10000 CFU/ml. Thirteen patients in the IUC group and 14 patients in the NC group had positive dip slides. The largest received urine volume in each patient at one intermittent catheterization did not differ significantly between the groups. However, in three patients in the NC group the volumes exceeded 1000 ml. Thus, irrespective of treatment dip slides showed bacteriuria in 84% of the patients. Perioperative indwelling catheters do not seem to cause many more infection complications than no bladder drainage during surgery, and the advantages of reduced risk of bladder distension injury and more accurate monitoring of fluid balance suggest their use.
Posterior spinal fusion of the cervical spine using the Alligator plate: operative technique and clinical results.	We have designed a new type of clamping plate called the "Alligator plate" for posterior cervical spinal fixation and used it in some cases with cervical instability. Seventeen patients with cervical instability treated by posterior cervical fixation using Alligator plate were clinically evaluated. As a control group, 21 patients treated by a wire fixation method (cerclage) were also evaluated. Clinical results were evaluated radiographically on dynamic flexion-extension lateral radiographs with confirmation of the fusion mass on oblique-view radiographs. The results of Alligator plate fixation were excellent in 15 patients, good in one and poor in one. The results of wire fixation were excellent in 15 patients, good in three, fair in one and poor in two. A safe and simple alternative instrumentation, the Alligator plate has sufficient stability to be useful for treating instability of the lower cervical spine.
Anatomic features of the paramedian muscle-splitting approaches to the lumbar spine.	Intermuscular approaches can expose the lumbar spine and minimize muscular trauma and injury. The segmental anatomy of the posterior lumbar musculature allows surgical access through separation of muscle groups and fascicles and provides one to develop intermuscular working channels while preserving the integrity of the muscles and their function. In addition, preservation of the accompanying neurovascular bundles minimizes blood loss, tissue atrophy, and pain. With these approaches, a variety of procedures for decompression, discectomy, interbody fusion, or pedicle screw fixation can be achieved for single or multiple levels without subperiosteal stripping or muscle transection.
Admission and acute complication rate for outpatient lumbar microdiscectomy.	Specialization is generally independently associated with improved outcomes for most types of surgery. This is the first study comparing the immediate success of outpatient lumbar microdiscectomy with respect to acute complication and conversion to inpatient rate. Long-term pain relief is not examined in this study.
On health sustenance and surgical innovation: an inquiry into linear and circular causality.	Innovative surgery teeters on the horns of a dilemma. Although a surgical innovation may offer substantial improvement over conventional treatment strategies on one hand, it may on the other be perceived as involving significant risk by both the surgeon and the patient. Based on primary data collected from field research in the operating rooms of a local hospital and from in-depth interviews with a consultant surgeon of orthopedics and traumatology, this article looks into 2 real-life spine surgery cases: an exploration of the possibilities for cervical spine fusion surgery and the creative use of a computerized surgical navigation tool. The discussion centers on how a surgeon thinks and acts when presented with such scenarios. It is argued that surgical innovation as well as the responses to it develop through a process of "nested" circular causalities that arise from a linearly directed intention-that is, the intention to cure illness. In relation to how a surgeon thinks, it is argued that if the causes for intervention were different-that is, the surgeon's desire to cure an illness and, at the same time, allow the patient to live a better and happier life-then the effect would be the decision to carry out an alternate procedure, thus, presenting a new choice. In relation to how a surgeon acts, it is argued that rigid, unquestioning adherence to prevailing assumptions and practices can serve to stifle originality. Surprise and novelty emerge only when the surgeon challenges existing assumptions as well as the validity of their constituent elements.
Percutaneous lumbar discectomy: a new adjunct to open surgery.	Percutaneous automated lumbar discectomy is a new and alternative method to open operations for lumbar disc disease. The procedure and indications for the procedure are explained in this article. The results of the first 24 such procedures performed at the Indiana University Medical Center will be examined and discussed.
Isoflurane-induced attenuation of motor evoked potentials caused by electrical motor cortex stimulation during surgery.	Dysfunction of spinal motor conduction during surgical procedures may not be reflected by changes in somatosensory evoked potential waveforms. A method of monitoring that allows direct and continuous assessment of motor function within the central nervous system during surgery would be useful. This paper describes one such method utilizing noninvasive electric cortical stimulation to evoke muscle activity (the motor evoked potential, or MEP) during surgery. The effect of isoflurane (superimposed on a baseline of N2O/narcotic anesthesia) on MEP's in response to cortical stimulation is specifically examined. Eight patients undergoing elective neurosurgical operations were included in the study. All patients received a background of general anesthesia and partial nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockade. The motor cortex was stimulated electrically via self-adhesive scalp electrodes. Electromyographic responses from multiple muscles were measured with subdermal electroencephalograph-type needle electrodes. Motor responses to stimulation were continually recorded on magnetic tape for off-line analysis. Once closing of the surgical incision was begun, a series of four to five stimuli of constant magnitude were applied to obtain "baseline" MEP responses. Patients were then ventilated with isoflurane for up to 8 minutes, during which time stimuli were continued every 15 to 20 seconds. Comparison was made of MEP responses for trials before, 1 minute after, and 5 minutes after the addition of isoflurane. All patients demonstrated reproducible motor responses to cortical stimulation during surgery. Addition of isoflurane [isoflurane)exp, less than or equal to 0.5%) to pre-existing anesthesia caused marked attenuation of MEP amplitudes in all patients within 5 minutes of its application, without affecting neuromuscular transmission as judged by direct peripheral nerve stimulation. It is concluded that: 1) monitoring motor system integrity and function with electric transcranial cortical stimulation during surgery is feasible when utilizing an N2O/narcotic anesthetic protocol; and 2) the quality of data obtained will likely suffer with the addition of isoflurane.
Increased in-hospital complications after primary posterior versus primary anterior cervical fusion.	Although anterior (ACDF) and posterior cervical fusion (PCDF) are relatively common procedures and both are associated with certain complications, the relative frequency and severity of these complications is unclear. Since for some patients either approach might be reasonable it is important to know the relative perioperative risks for decision-making.
Surgical site infection in lumbar surgeries, pre and postoperative antibiotics and length of stay: a case study.	Postoperative wound infection also called as surgical site infection (SSI), is a trouble some complication of lumbar spine surgeries and they can be associated with serious morbidities, mortalities and increase resource utilization. With the improvement in diagnostic modalities, proper surgical techniques, antibiotic therapy and postoperative care, infectious complications can result in various compromises afterwards. The objective was to study the relation of surgical site infection in clean lumbar surgeries with the doses of antibiotics. This Retrospective study was conducted at Shifa International Hospital, from January 2006 to March 2008.
What is the incidence and severity of dysphagia after anterior cervical surgery?	Existing studies suggest a relatively high incidence of dysphagia after anterior cervical decompression and fusion (ACDF). The majority of these studies, however, are retrospective in nature and lack a control group.
Posterior fixation of the upper cervical spine: contemporary techniques.	Instrumentation in the upper cervical spine has changed considerably in the past two decades. Previous stand-alone wiring techniques have been made largely obsolete with the development of occipital segmental plating, transarticular screws, and C1 lateral mass screws, as well as a myriad of C2 fixation options, including pedicle, pars, and translaminar screws. Polyaxial screws and segmental fixation are more user-friendly than stand-alone wiring and provide a stronger construct. Awareness of the risks and benefits associated with the use of modern instrumentation and thorough familiarity with the anatomy of the upper cervical spine are essential to avoid complications and optimize outcomes.
Reliability of the balanced inventory for spinal disorders, a questionnaire for evaluation of outcomes in patients with various spinal disorders.	An intrapatient reliability study of the previously validated 18-item questionnaire, the Balanced Inventory for Spinal disorders (BIS), in patients referred for planned spinal surgery. Statistical evaluation of the test-retest assessments was performed by a rank-based method that allows for separate analyses of the systematic and individual components of an observed disagreement.
Necessity of development of Russian vertebrologic registry]	Development of national and international registers for the most socially significant diseases is an important problem of contemporary medicine. Importance and priority of vertebrological register is explained by relatively young age of spinal neurosurgery as specialty, in which many questions concerning indications and optimal methods of treatment remain unsolved, and accumulated experience is quite limited. Nevertheless, vertebrology is on the way from opinions of certain experts to evidence-based scientific proofs. This transition needs generally accepted and convenient instruments for assessment of outcomes of treatment and procedures which should be presented by national vertebrological register. Aims of its development include accumulation of clinically valuable resources and knowledge in vertebrology by means of organization of society of interested professionals and patients. The paper discusses architecture, contents and importance of development of Russian vertebrological register targeted on neurosurgeons, orthopaedic surgeons, vertebrologists and other specialists dealing with this problem. Foreign vertebrological registers are analyzed, their advantages and disadvantages are summarized, requirements for inclusion of criteria in the register are investigated.
Two-year follow-up results after treatment of lumbar instability with titanium-coated fusion system.	  The purpose of this prospective clinical trial, with a minimum two-year follow-up, was to evaluate the clinical effects of a titanium-coated lumbar interbody fusion system in the treatment of lumbar instability.
Red blood cell transfusion in neurosurgery.	The necessity of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions in neurosurgical procedures is under debate. Although detailed recommendations exist for many other surgical disciplines, there are very limited data on the probability of transfusions during neurosurgical procedures.
Motion analysis of single-level cervical total disc arthroplasty: a meta-analysis.	The purpose of this review was to investigate whether cervical total disc arthroplasty (CTDA) preserves motion of the treated level and what its effect is on adjacent segments.
New minimally invasive surgical techniques in spinal surgery]	The last decade has brought significant development in spine surgery. As in all field of surgery, introduction of the minimal invasive, atraumatic procedures characterized our activities. The number of short and long-time complications were significantly reduced and the effectiveness of operations were markedly improved by the new technical conditions, for example by the use of neuronavigation, surgical microscope, intraoperative fluoroscopy, high speed drill and the widespread of keyhole concept. The applied multislice CT imaging and the high resolution MRI enabled to improve the accuracy of the planned surgical procedures and to reduce the mortality and morbidity of operations. In our studies technical methods were investigated and new developments were established in the field of minimal invasive spine surgery. The National Institute of Neurosurgery's spinal surgical team pioneers further development and application of novel minimal invasive procedures. Applied methods of vanguard surgical procedures include split laminotomy, the "archbone" technique, the "over the top" decompression, the multilevel hemi-semi laminectomy, the supraforaminal "burr hole", the facet joint sparing "open tunnel" techniques or parasplit minimal invasive approaches. The new innovative surgical techniques are applied in our daily routine and meet international trends by utilizing benefits of minimal invasive spinal surgery. Using our newly developed innovative techniques allow to decompress neural elements in case of spinal canal stenosis and to remove the intramedullary and extramedullary space-occupying lesions located in the spinal canal and spreading extraspinally through the neuroforamen. These techniques are specially tailored to preserve structural integrity and stability of the spinal column, and allow at the same time to minimize resection of and injury to tissues not directly involved in the pathologic processes. In our studies a classification system of spatial localization of pathological lesions and processes in spinal canal was developed by us. Using this classification system enables the surgeon to select and apply the appropriate minimal invasive technique from dorsal direction and to remove the space-occupying lesions located in the spinal canal. The minimal invasive techniques were characterized and summarized. This overview of the minimal invasive techniques can be applied and recommended in the daily routine of spine surgery. We proudly employ novel surgical techniques having been developed in our institution. These techniques are internationally recognized and applied in our practice on daily basis as well.
Imaging features of postoperative complications after spinal surgery and instrumentation.	The purpose of this article is to illustrate common postoperative complications and their imaging appearances after spinal surgery, including stabilization, fusion, and disk replacement with various techniques and devices.
Perioperative pain control in pediatric patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery.	Management of perioperative pain is critical in the pediatric patient undergoing orthopaedic surgery. A variety of modalities can be used to manage pain and optimize recovery and patient satisfaction, including nonopioid and opioid analgesia; local anesthetic injection; and regional analgesia such as intrathecal morphine, epidural therapy, and peripheral nerve blocks. Acute pain management can be tailored based on the needs of the patient, the surgical site, and the anticipated level of postoperative pain. A preoperative discussion of the plan for perioperative pain control with the patient, his or her parents, and the anesthesiologist can help manage expectations and maximize patient satisfaction.
Factors predicting blood transfusion in different surgical procedures for degenerative spine disease.	Spine surgery frequently needs allogeneic blood transfusions to compensate for great blood loss. Autologous blood donations often are indicated to reduce homologous transfusions. In last decades interbody spinal fusion has gained popularity, being frequently performed in many spine procedures. Nevertheless, there are few studies evaluating the risk factors of additional blood transfusions in the postoperative course of degenerative spine surgery and no one concerning patients who underwent interbody fusion.
Lateral transpsoas fusion: indications and outcomes.	Spinal fusion historically has been used extensively, and, recently, the lateral transpsoas approach to the thoracic and lumbar spine has become an increasingly common method to achieve fusion. Recent literature on this approach has elucidated its advantage over more traditional anterior and posterior approaches, which include a smaller tissue dissection, potentially lower blood loss, no need for an access surgeon, and a shorter hospital stay. Indications for the procedure have now expanded to include degenerative disc disease, spinal stenosis, degenerative scoliosis, nonunion, trauma, infection, and low-grade spondylolisthesis. Lateral interbody fusion has a similar if not lower rate of complications compared to traditional anterior and posterior approaches to interbody fusion. However, lateral interbody fusion has unique complications that include transient neurologic symptoms, motor deficits, and neural injuries that range from 1 to 60% in the literature. Additional studies are required to further evaluate and monitor the short- and long-term safety, efficacy, outcomes, and complications of lateral transpsoas procedures.
Multistep pedicle screw insertion procedure with patient-specific lamina fit-and-lock templates for the thoracic spine: clinical article.	Pedicle screw fixation is a standard procedure of spinal instrumentation, but accurate screw placement is essential to avoid injury to the adjacent structures, such as the vessels, nerves, and viscera. The authors recently developed an intraoperative screw guiding method in which patient-specific laminar templates were used, and verified the accuracy of the multistep procedure in the thoracic spine.
Comparative study of lumbopelvic sagittal alignment between patients with and without sacroiliac joint pain after lumbar interbody fusion.	A retrospective case-control study.
Neuronavigation in minimally invasive spine surgery.	Parallel advancements in image guidance technology and minimal access techniques continue to push the frontiers of minimally invasive spine surgery (MISS). While traditional intraoperative imaging remains widely used, newer platforms, such as 3D-fluoroscopy, cone-beam CT, and intraoperative CT/MRI, have enabled safer, more accurate instrumentation placement with less radiation exposure to the surgeon. The goal of this work is to provide a review of the current uses of advanced image guidance in MISS.
Clinically important deterioration in patients undergoing lumbar spine surgery: a choice of evaluation methods using the Oswestry Disability Index, 36-Item Short Form Health Survey, and pain scales: clinical article.	Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measures have become the mainstay for outcome appraisal in spine surgery. Clinically meaningful interpretation of HRQOL improvement has centered on the minimum clinically important difference (MCID). The purpose of this study was to calculate clinically important deterioration (CIDET) thresholds and determine a CIDET value for each HRQOL measure for patients undergoing lumbar fusion.
Nerve injury after lateral lumbar interbody fusion: a review of 919 treated levels with identification of risk factors.	Lateral lumbar interbody fusion (LLIF) has become an increasingly common minimally invasive procedure for selective degenerative deformity correction, reduction of low-grade spondylolisthesis, and indirect foraminal decompression. Concerns remain about the safety of the transpsoas approach to the spine due to proximity of the lumbosacral plexus.
Incidence, risk factors, and outcomes of postoperative airway management after cervical spine surgery.	Retrospective database analysis.
Causes and risk factors for 30-day unplanned readmissions after lumbar spine surgery.	Retrospective review of a prospective cohort.
Neurosurgery for cervical spondylosis.	The pathogenesis of radiculopathy and myelopathy secondary to cervical spondylosis is described, together with the clinical features of these conditions and the factors that influence their natural history. After discussing the differential diagnosis the medical management and the indications for surgery are considered. Details of the operative approaches are presented in association with the results of treatment.
Clinical evaluation of three surgical methods for treatment of caudal cervical spondylomyelopathy of dogs.	Sixty-four dogs with caudal cervical spondylomyelopathy (CCSM) caused by chronic degenerative disc disease were treated with ventral decompression (n = 20), linear traction and interbody screw stabilization (n = 7), or linear traction and plastic plate stabilization (n = 37). Interbody screw stabilization was ineffective in treating CCSM because of an unacceptably high rate of implant failures. Ventral decompression or linear traction and plastic plate stabilization were effective in the treatment of most patients with mild to moderate neurologic deficits (neck pain, paraparesis, or ambulatory tetraparesis). Although these techniques were also used successfully in some patients with severe neurologic deficits (weakly ambulatory tetraparesis or nonambulatory tetraparesis), variable success rates and prolonged postoperative recovery periods were noted.
Local treatment of infections in neurosurgery with gentamicin PMMA chains (Septopal)]	Treatment of infections after neurosurgical operations at the head and vertebral column is lengthy and stressful for the patient. Hence, we implanted--as has been routine in septic bone surgery for a long time--carriers of antibiotics for local antibiotic therapy in the form of Septopal chains. The course of treatment and the results obtained in 16 patients are presented. In all patients the wound cavities were filled with Septopal chains after débridement. In the course of 6-12 days the chains projecting from the skin by a stab incision were extracted sphere by sphere. The treated wound healed immediately in 14 patients; healing was delayed in 2 patients, but there were no complications. Since the use of Septopal chains results in local gentamicin levels which are so high that the conventional classification of germs into gentamicin-sensitive/gentamicin-resistant is of minor importance, the wounds healed without complications even in those patients where the germs had been classified as "resistant" in the routine antibiogram. Thus, Septopal offers the advantage of primary wound closure without secondary contamination or scatter into the environment (intensive-care ward!), shorter treatment time, reduced stress for the patient and more rapid mobilisation.
Long-term follow-up of lower lumbar fusion patients.	To determine the long-term effects of lower lumbar fusion, 94 subjects were catalogued from medical records. They had a lumbar arthrodesis at the third lumbar level or below and their operations were performed before 1964. Twenty-four were not located and 8 were deceased. Sixty-two subjects (72% of available sample) completed a telephone interview; 52 subjects completed a comprehensive low back questionnaire; and 33 subjects returned for physical examination, flexion-extension lateral lumbar spine films, and a limited computerized axial tomographic (CAT) scan. In general, the subjects who returned for complete evaluation were representative of the larger sample. Forty of 62 patients were men. Ages ranged from 41 to 83 years; the median age was 66 years, 6 months. Follow-up ranged from 21 to 52 years; the median follow-up was 33 years. Forty-four percent (27/61) were currently experiencing low-back pain, 57% (35/61) had back pain in the last year. Fifty-three percent (33/62) were using medication. Fifteen percent (9/62) had undergone repeat lumbar surgery, however, only 5% (3/62) required surgery as a late sequela (more than 10 years postoperatively). Forty-two percent (14/33) had lumbar spinal stenosis, but only 15% (5/33) had dural tube measurements less than 100 mm2. Segmental instability above the fusion was present in 45% (15/33). There was a significant correlation between segmental instability and lumbar spinal stenosis (r = .57, P less than .01). Neither radiographic condition correlated with symptoms, however.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An experience with epidural morphine in lumbar surgery patients.	A chart review of the patients who received epidural morphine for lumbar surgery during the first year of implementation of the procedure was conducted. This article reviews the pharmacology and side effects of epidural morphine, describes the procedure of administering epidural morphine, discusses side effects and technical problems encountered, and presents implications for nursing practice.
Somatosensory evoked potential measurements in percutaneous fluid aspiration from intraspinal cystic lesions.	Two patients were evaluated with somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs) before and after CT-guided fluid aspiration from cystic intraspinal lesions. Our objective was to use the information and the clinical response to this procedure to determine the suitability of the patients for surgical intervention. In both patients, one with a pseudomeningocele and the other with a subarachnoid cyst, improvement in their symptoms corresponded to significant changes in their SSEPs. We believe this technique may be useful in selected cases when it is unclear whether cystic intraspinal fluid collections are responsible for the patient's symptoms. An increase in amplitude and/or decrease in latency of SSEPs, along with clinical improvement after fluid aspiration, may indicate the potential benefit of surgical intervention.
Use of cryopreserved bone in spinal surgery.	One hundred fifty-two consecutive spinal fusions were performed over a 4-year period in 143 patients. Autogenous bone was used in 62 patients and frozen cryopreserved bone in 90. A variety of anterior and posterior procedures with and without instrumentation were performed. The percentage of successful arthrodesis was 87 in those who received autogenous bone, and 86.6 in those who received allograft bone. Thirty-four spinal fusions were surgically explored. Histologic evaluation of the bone taken at the time of surgical exploration showed viable osteocytes laying down osteoid, woven and lamellar bone, and no inflammatory or foreign body reaction. The authors conclude that cryopreserved bone, harvested and processed as described, is advantageous, safe, and results in a rate of bone union comparable to that of autogenous bone.
Decompression laminectomy and lateral spinal fusion in patients with previously failed lumbar spine surgery.	Sixty-two patients who had had previous failed lumbar disk surgery (average 1.4 surgeries) were treated with a decompression laminectomy and lateral spinal fusion. Follow up averaged 4.2 years and results were based on pain relief, improved function, and return to work as recorded on a patient questionnaire. Using a scoring system to quantify the change from the patients felt the surgery was very worthwhile, 32% had a good result, 29% had a fair result, and 38% had a poor result. However, 53% of the patients felt the surgery was very worthwhile, 37% rated it somewhat worthwhile, and 10% responded that the surgery was not worthwhile. Factors which statistically correlated with a higher improvement score were the presence of a unilateral radicular pain pattern, a year pain free interval since the previous surgery, and a myelogram which was more indicative of a disk herniation rather than cicatrix formation. Similarly, those patients who were found to have a recurrent or new disk at the time of surgery did better than those whose major finding was scar formation. The quality of the fusion mass was positively correlated with a better final result with questionable statistical significance (P = .06). Finally, those patients who were industrial improved much less and only 14% returned to work as compared to 61% of the non-industrial patients.
Analysis of the morphometric characteristics of the thoracic and lumbar pedicles.	A total of 2,905 pedicle measurements were made from T1-L5. Measurements were made from spinal computerized tomography (CT) scan examinations and individual vertebral specimen roentgenograms. Parameters considered were the pedicle isthmus width in the transverse and sagittal planes, pedicle angles in the transverse and sagittal planes, and the depth to the anterior cortex in a line parallel to the midline of the vertebral body and along the pedicle axis. There was no significant difference between data obtained from CT scans and specimen roentgenograms. Pedicles were widest at L5 and narrowest at T5 in the transverse plane. The widest pedicles in the sagittal plane were seen at T11, the narrowest at T1. Due to the oval shape of the pedicle, the sagittal plane width was generally larger than the transverse plane width. The largest pedicle angle in the transverse plane was at L5. The posterolateral to anterolateral pedicle axis orientation in the transverse plane, seen at other levels throughout the thoracolumbar spine, reversed at T12. In the sagittal plane, the pedicles angled caudally at L5 and cephaladly from L3-T1. The depth to the anterior cortex was significantly longer along the pedicle axis than along a line parallel to the midline of the vertebral body at all levels with the exception of T12 and T11.
Geriatric neurosurgery.	The "elderly," aged 65 and over, represent a rapidly growing proportion of the American population. Their percentage among the neurosurgical admissions at Henry Ford Hospital increased from 14.4% in 1978 to 22.4% in 1984. Occlusive cerebrovascular disease was the most frequent pathology seen, representing 40% of the population studied. Spinal degenerative myeloradiculopathy represented 14%, tumors 7%, trauma 5.4%, and intracranial hematomas represented 4% of the population. Vascular anomalies represented 3.3% of the patient group, with almost the same number of patients presenting with intracranial hemorrhage. The percentage of patients who were surgically treated was 58%. Mortality was 6.5%, with only 2.5% of the patients requiring special-care-facility placement following release from the hospital. An older group, aged 85 and over, represented 4% of our geriatric population. In the age 85+ group, occlusive cerebrovascular disease was the leading pathology (18% of the population), followed by subdural hematomas (15%), spinal degenerative myeloradiculopathy (11.6%), trigeminal neuralgias (7%), hydrocephalus (4%), vascular anomalies (4%), and tumors (4%). Patients in the age 85+ group were surgically treated in 41% of the cases, with a mortality of less than 10%. In the past, older age (greater than 65 years) was believed to be a contraindication to surgery, however, the increased life expectancy, number, and health of this population made reconsideration of this arbitrary age limit essential. We feel that age alone is not a barrier to proper neurosurgical treatment when other risk factors are adequately managed.
Postero-lateral arthrodeses in spondylolisthesis and lumbosacral disk arthroses. Study of 11 cases with follow-ups exceeding 5 years]	The retrospective study of 111 patients having undergone a postero-lateral arthrodesis for lumbar disc degeneration or spondylolisthesis has enabled to evaluate functional results according to the clinical criteria of Stauffer and Coventry with a mean follow-up of 9.5 years, and to examine among clinical and socio-professional elements, X-rays data and technical conditions of the graft, those which seem to influence in a statistically significant fashion the quality of the results. The long term result was estimated satisfactory (very good and average) for 70% of spondylolisthesis, and stable in time; 3/4 of the patients resumed work, after rehabilitation 2 out of 3 times. Concerning disk arthroses, we have observed 50% of satisfactory results, with degradation of average results one year after surgery occurring 4 out of 10 times, most often more than 5 years after the graft; 58% of the patients resumed work, half of them after rehabilitation. 25 complications were noted and they all evolved favorably. Among factors capable of influencing the quality of the result, no statistically significant influence was found concerning the pre-operative site of the pain, the possible past history of spine surgery, a pre-operative risk profession for the spine, a pre-operative inter-apophyseal arthrosis, the number of levels grafted and a possible associated discal curettage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Experiences with external fixation of the cervical spine in the halo-yoke system]	The Halo-Yoke-System allows an external fixation, reposition and immobilisation of the cervical spine. Indications for application of application of Halo-Yoke exist in conservative or operative treatment of acute traumatic lesions and protection of results after surgical treatment in cases of instability of different etiology (tumour, spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, congenital deformities). The experience basing on 28 own cases is reported.
The management of arthrogryposis.	Arthrogryposis has an evil reputation among orthopedic surgeons, for the deformities are known to be resistant to correction and relapse during growth is common. It is suggested that many of these difficulties have been due to a delay in initiating treatment, to the use of unsuitable methods such as manipulation, and to a lack of appreciation of the pathologic changes. The author's experience with a large number of personally treated cases has convinced him that aggressive surgical treatment in infancy and early childhood is more successful than previously accepted methods of care (Figs. 22, 23).
Disc excision and spine fusion in the management of lumbar disc disease. A minimum ten-year followup.	Seventy-nine percent of 312 patients who underwent lumbar disc surgery were evaluated at least 10 years postoperatively (mean equal to 13.7 years). Residual back and nerve root symptoms and functional impairment were equally as common among the 143 patients who underwent fusion as they were among the 64 patients who did not. Thirty percent of the patients whose spines were fused and 37.7% of those patients whose spines were not fused were considered long-term failures because of persistent symptoms or the need for reoperation. Thirty-seven percent of the fusion patients had persistent graft donor site symptoms. Examined patients showed a high percentage of residual neurologic defects. An unexplained positive Trendelenburg sign was present in 14.8% of the fusion patients and in 18.2% of the patients whose spines were not fused. Although retrospective studies often have problems of accuracy, this analysis confirms other observations that midline spinal fusion offers few benefits in the management of lumbar disc disease.
Failed lumbar disc surgery requiring second operation. A long-term follow-up study.	Forty-five patients who had lumbar disc surgery 10 or more years previously, and had required a second operative procedure, have been evaluated. Failures occurred up to 16 years after the first operation, and were most commonly due to pseudoarthrosis in the patients who underwent spinal fusion initially, and to recurrent disc lesions at the same level as previous surgery in the patients who did not have fusion. The clinical and functional results in the second group of patients who required a second procedure were comparable to those of patients who required only a single procedure. In contrast, patients who had undergone spinal fusion who required a second procedure had significantly worse clinical and functional results, both in comparison to the patients who did not undergo fusion as well as to patients who had had fusion as a single procedure. The only predictable, demonstrable source of failure was acquired spondylolysis. Frequently, repair of pseudoarthrosis did not lead to symptomatic relief. These data suggest that spinal fusion, when it fails, has a significantly worse prognosis than simple disc excision in the management of lumbar disc disease.
Aneurysmal bone cyst of the thoracic and lumbar spine. Report of 4 personal cases and description of an improved radical operation technic]	This report presents results in 4 cases of aneurysmal bone cyst of the thoracic- and lumbar spine with inclusion of the vertebral body. A new own modified radical method of resection (transthoracic or retroperitoneal) for the total resection of the lesion is described. The defect created after vertebral body resection is filled with a homologous femoral head transplant (prepared from material removed during total hip replacement). For correction of the deformity (kyphosis) and stabilisation of the area of VDS-Implant System of Zielke is used. The results thus obtained are excellent, complications or recurrences of the lesion have not been observed.
Antibiotic prophylaxis in orthopedics with special reference to spinal operations]	We report about our experience was the perioperative prophylaxis with antibiotics. We use a prophylaxis only in operations of the spinal column. In our opinion the prevention with antibiotics in other orthopaedic operations is not necessary. As an example we show our hip arthroplasties with a rate of infection under 0,5 percent.
Anterior osteosynthesis of the cervical spine by phusiline bioresorbable screws and plates. Initial results apropos of 5 cases]	The authors have designed a biocompatible and bioresorbable plate (1) in Phusilines* for anterior cervical interbody stabilization. Phusilines* are polymer of alpha hydroxyacid (poly lactic acid), and their in vivo degradation (in lactic acid and via the Krebs circle, in water and carbon dioxide), is complete within 18 months. Screws are available in the same material. Phusilines* are radiotransparent and do not interfere with MRI. The size and shape of the plate have been determined with three dimensional computed tomography, their thickness and their molecular weight and chemical structure have been determined to obtain the best compromise in mechanical properties and time of resorption. Biomechanical studies have been performed in cadaver, and have showed a good quality of the osteosynthesis. Five patients with anterior cervical disco-ligamental instability were operated on according the french law of bioethic (Huriet Law). In these five cases the operation was performed via antero lateral approach, and it consisted in a interbody xenograft with Surgibone (2) and interbody osteosynthesis with a plate and four screws of 16 mm of length and 4 mm of diameter. Clinical and radiological examinations were realised during 18 months. In all cases, clinical results in rachialgia and neurological signs were excellent, in four case the tolerance was excellent, in a case inflammatory phenomens were observed the 8th and the 14th month successfully treated with non steroid anti-inflammatories. Anatomical results were excellent in two cases, good in two cases and incomplete in one case. Reasons of these incomplete results are discussed. These preliminary results are sufficient to continue these implantations.
Increase in creatine kinase MB isoenzyme levels after spinal surgery.	Serial assays of creatine kinase (CK) and particularly its isoenzyme CK-MB are the tests of choice for the laboratory confirmation of myocardial tissue damage. However, elevations attributable to skeletal muscle injury also have been reported, and we noted elevated levels of total CK, CK-MB, and percent MB postoperatively following spinal surgery in some of our patients. To define prospectively the frequency of elevations and their clinical correlates, we studied 20 consecutive spinal surgical procedures in 17 adults. Postoperative elevations of CK-MB occurred in 55% of these procedures in the absence of overt clinical signs of myocardial injury. Elevations were correlated with operative time and the length of the surgical dissection. These data confirm that elevations in CK-MB and percent MB can occur after spinal surgery in the absence of overt clinical manifestations of myocardial injury. Thus, enzyme elevations should not be used in isolation to diagnose myocardial infarction in these patients.
Vascular injury in anterior lumbar surgery.	Anterior approaches to the lumbar spine are rapidly gaining popularity for decompressive and reconstructive procedures. A recognized hazard to this approach to the spine is possible injury to the great vessels. This retrospective study is a review of 102 consecutive anterior lumbar spinal procedures. All approaches were performed by one of two fellowship-trained vascular surgeons. Both have extensive experience with this approach. All injuries to the inferior vena cava, common iliac vein, or other great vessels that required suture repair were recorded. The authors were surprised to note an overall rate for this vascular complication of 15.6%. These injuries included 11 tears of the common iliac vein, four tears of the inferior vena cava, and one avulsion of the iliolumbar vein. Two different approaches were used during this study. Twenty-six cases were performed through a flank incision, with the dissection proceeding through the external and internal oblique muscles as well as the transversus abdominis. The average number of levels exposed was 2.3. Two vascular complications resulted, for an incidence of 7.7%. Seventy-six procedures were carried out through a small (5-10 cm) incision overlying the rectus abdominis muscle. The retroperitoneal space was entered through the posterior rectus sheath without division of any muscle tissue. This resulted in 14 vascular complications, for an incidence of 18.4%. Although the authors are unaware of any major long-term morbidity from this complication in their patient group, they believe feel that the true incidence of this potentially quite serious complication may be underestimated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Complications associated with the technique of pedicle screw fixation. A selected survey of ABS members.	A limited survey analysis of 617 surgical cases in which pedicle screw implants were used was undertaken to ascertain the incidence and variety of associated complications. The different implant systems used included variable spinal plating (n = 249), Edwards (n = 143), and AO fixateur interne (n = 101). The most common intraoperative problem was unrecognized screw misplacement (5.2%). Fracturing of the pedicle during screw insertion and iatrogenic cerebrospinal fluid leak occurred in 4.2% of cases. The postoperative deep infection rate was 4.2%. Transient neuropraxia occurred in 2.4% of cases, and permanent nerve root injury occurred in 2.3% of cases. Previously unreported injury to nerve roots occurred late in the postoperative course in three cases. Screw breakage occurred in 2.9% of cases. All other complications had an incidence of less than 2%. The authors conclude that pedicle screw placement may be associated with significant intraoperative and postoperative complications. This information is of value to surgeons using pedicle implant systems as well as to their patients. Repeat surgery is associated with greater numbers of complications.
Uptake of desflurane during anaesthesia.	The amount of desflurane required to maintain an end-expired concentration of 8% was measured in 30 ASA 1 and 2 patients undergoing elective spinal surgery. The anaesthetic was administered using a computer-controlled closed circle system. After an initial period during which the expired concentration of desflurane was stabilised (4 min) the rate of uptake showed a bi-exponential decline. Mean cumulative usage of desflurane was 10.1 ml of liquid at 30 min, 14.8 ml at 60 min, 25.4 ml at 120 min, 35.8 at 180 min.
Evaluation of postoperative pain in spinal surgery--usefulness of the administration of local anesthetics into the peridural cavity]	Analgesic effects of perioperative administration of local anesthetics into the peridural cavity were examined in 21 patients with cervical or lumbar vertebral diseases. Sufficient analgesic effects were obtained particularly in patients with lumbar vertebral disease. Administration of local anesthetics was also effective for postoperative sleep on the day of operation. No postoperative neurological side effects were observed. These findings suggest that peridural administration of local anesthetics during spinal surgery is very useful.
Biologic enhancement of spinal fusion.	Scientific advances in the past decade have generated considerable clinical interest in developing biologic tools that may ultimately enhance spinal fusion. This article reviews the current understanding of each of these and other fusion-enhancing tools with particular attention to the results of in vivo animal experimentation and, where available, objective clinical data.
Laparoscopic spinal fusion.	This article details the development of the laparoscopic technique of interbody spinal fusion. The rationale for this procedure is discussed as are indications, contraindications, and operative technique. The results of over 100 laparoscopic lumbar fusions are presented along with their complications and surgical recommendations.
Percutaneous interbody fusions.	Percutaneous interbody fusion procedures have evolved as a result of the need for precise and specific access corridors to facilitate the application of technology to perform these procedures. Endoscopic visualization has expanded minimally invasive capabilities, particularly in the thoracic and lumbar spine. Refinement of grafting concepts and structural composition continues. Based on the historical evolution of the described percutaneous interbody fusion procedures, the future of minimally invasive interbody arthrodesis shows promise through the ongoing definition of access corridors and the refinement of operative tools and techniques.
Minimally invasive posterolateral lumbar arthrodesis.	Video-assisted and optical techniques have been adapted to minimally invasive approaches for lumbar arthrodesis. They hold the promise of improved outcomes and reduced morbidity, but development is recent and validation is limited.
Complications of spinal fusion in adult patients more than 60 years of age.	This article describes the overall rate, characteristics, and predictive factors for major and minor complications in spinal fusion patients over 60 years of age (or greater) cared for in the authors' institution. Special emphasis is placed on establishing the most valid incidence of complications after spinal fusion by extracting the information directly from the pateint's permanent medical or clinical database record. Once the spinal surgery risk profile for the elderly patient is established, treatment interventions to modify these risks can be implemented and evaluated prospectively and longitudinally to maximize spinal surgery outcomes.
Complications in spinal fusion.	Complications in spinal fusion can lead to less than desirable results. The complications of spinal fusion in the cervical and lumbar spine are discussed. Methods of avoiding and correcting complications also are reviewed. Through a better understanding, it is hoped that complications can be prevented.
Alternatives to spinal fusion.	Techniques have changed significantly with the advent of less invasive surgical techniques for disc excision and spinal fusion; these include the development of rigid internal fixation devices using multiple points of fixation and the better knowledge of the biology of spinal fusion. Despite these improvements in technology, room exists for alternative forms of surgical treatment because of significant failures particularly related to spinal fusions.
Indications and trends in use in cervical spinal fusions.	Anterior cervical decompression and arthrodesis has evolved over the last 40 years and has become the preferred procedure for managing many cervical spine disorders. The first half of this article discusses the indications for cervical fusion in the management of traumatic, degenerative, neoplastic, infectious, and congenital conditions of the cervical spine. The second half of this article discusses the recent trends in use of cervical spine fusions that demonstrate the increasing frequency of this procedure in the United States over the last 10 years.
Cervical deformity: rationale for selecting the appropriate fusion technique (anterior, posterior, and 360 degree).	This article examines cervical deformities and their treatments, such as iatrogenic deformities, posttraumatic deformities, ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, degenerative subaxial spondylolisthesis, myopathy, infectious spondylitis, and tumors. Congenital scoliosis and kyphosis and torticollis and rotatory atlanto-axial subluxation also are discussed.
Clinical outcomes after cervical spine fusion.	The advent of sterile technique, modern anesthesia, and organized industrial society have allowed for great advances and widespread use of cervical arthrodesis for a variety of disorders. This article defines expected outcome for cervical arthrodesis used to treat degenerative disease, trauma, deformity, and a variety of other disorders.
Indications for thoracic and lumbar spine fusion and trends in use.	Over the last 10 years, the annual number of spinal procedures performed in the United States has more than doubled. In 1996, there were roughly 29,000 thoracic or dorsal fusion procedures, which made up almost 13% of all spine fusions performed. Scoliosis was the most common condition necessitating posterior thoracic fusion. The first half of this article focuses on the indications for thoracic and lumbar fusions; whereas, the second half of this article discusses the trends in use of thoracic and lumbar spine fusions.
Thoracic and lumbar deformity: rationale for selecting the appropriate fusion technique (Anterior, posterior, and 360 degree).	The rationale of anterior versus posterior, or combined fusion is discussed with regards to different clinical diagnoses and situations. Factors involved in the decision-making process include stability, magnitude of deformity, rigidity of deformity, neurologic considerations, bone quality, and medical/metabolic factors. Careful preoperative assessment and planning are required as well as consideration for the patient's overall well being.
Clinical outcome after fusion of the thoracic or lumbar spine in the adult patient.	This article highlights those disease processes for which fusion is used most frequently in the adult. Although the focus is on clinical outcome after fusion, the indications and natural history of the process itself are also briefly discussed to provide a comparative basis on which outcomes may be judged.
