Reduction of ischemic spinal cord injury by dextrorphan: comparison of several methods of administration.	We investigated the effect of dextrorphan, an N -methyl-D -aspartate receptor antagonist, on the reduction of ischemic spinal cord injury and the safe clamping time after various methods of administration.
A porcine model for endolaparoscopic abdominal aortic repair and endoscopic training.	The goals of this laboratory model were to evaluate the performance of the surgical team and endolaparoscopic techniques in the porcine model of infrarenal abdominal aortic repair.
Novel strategy for spinal cord protection during thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery using Doppler ultrasonography]	Paraplegia remains one of the most serious complications after thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. Spinal cord ischemia during the operation is thought to be the most important contributor to the development of this neurological deficit. So, it is important to preserve or reconstruct the critical segmental arteries for spinal cord protection. In order to identify the critical segmental arteries, we evaluate the segmental arteries by measuring the flow velocities using Doppler ultrasonography. The flow velocities are different among segmental arteries and some segmental arteries have no flow even though they are patent. Because we think that the segmental arteries with high flow velocities have much contribution to the spinal cord perfusion, we reconstruct or preserve such segmental arteries during the operation. We hope that this method would be clinically useful for spinal cord protection during thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery.
Thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm repair after detection of the Adamkiewicz artery by magnetic resonance angiography; a way to shorten operating time and improve outcome]	Surgical results were compared between 18 patients (group A) who underwent preoperative anatomic characterization of the Adamkiewicz artery by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and 38 patients (group B) without such imaging. In group A, intercostal or lumbar arteries related to the aneurysm were reattached to the graft only when they represented the origin of the Adamkiewicz artery. In group B, reconstruction from the Th 7 intercostal and the L2 lumbar arteries was performed whenever possible. In-hospital mortality was 16.7% in group A and 15.8% in group B. Total aortic clamp time and operating time were only 84 and 437 min in group A, compared with 134 and 589 min in group B. Three patients showed postoperative paraplegia in group B. No spinal cord injury occurred in patients whose artery had been detected preoperatively. Preoperative anatomic delineation of the Adamkiewicz artery by MRA can reduce risk of ischemic injury to the spinal cord and decrease operating time required for repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms.
Novel strategy for thoracoabdomianl aortic aneurysm repair; intraoperative selective perfusion of the Adamkiewicz artery]	We report our method for delineating the Adamkiewicz artery using multidetector row computed tomography (MDCT) with selective perfusion using a distal perfusion cannula that is clinically available for off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB). The tip of a distal perfusion catheter (Medtronic Quickflow, Minneapolis) designed for OPCAB was applicable for selective perfusion of the segmental arteries. The femoro-femoral venoarterial bypass was branched off into selective perfusion of the segmental arteries, using an independent roller pump and heat exchanger. Our method of visualization of the Adamkiewicz artery was MDCT scanning with injection of contrast medium directly into the proximal descending aorta: namely, "CT during aortography". Lower descending aorta to abdominal aorta (the range involving the aneurysm) was scanned in a cephalad-to-caudal direction using a detector collimation of 4 x 1.25 mm with a table speed of 9.4 mm/sec, pitch of 6, and image thickness of 1.25 mm. All images were reviewed on a workstation to investigate the continuity between the Adamkiewicz artery and its proximal segmental artery with paging, mulitplanar reformation and curved planar reformation. Distal perfusion cannulae of 2.0 mm in diameter were inserted into the respective intercostal arteries. 4-0 polyethylene sutures were placed to tourniquet the catheters. Segmental arteries were perfused with total flow of approximately 80 ml/min at a circuit pressure of 120 mmHg. Reattachment of the ninth intercostal arteries related to the Adamkiewicz artery was carried out. A total of 6 consecutive 6 patients with thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA) have undergone graft replacement by the methods described, since April 2002. All patients survived surgery without any neurological complications. This method is expected to minimize the ischemic time of the spinal cord and attenuate the reperfusion injury.
Repair of thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurisms by the use of hypothermic circulatory arrest]	From 1993 to 2003, repair of thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms using hypothermic circulatory arrest via the left thoracotomy was performed in 115 patients at our hospital. Ninety-one of them were elective cases and 24 of them were emergent cases. Hospital mortality rate was 3.3% in elective cases and 12.5% in emergent cases. Over all hospital mortality rate was 5.2%. Ischemic spinal cord injury was occurred in 2 patients (1.7%). Both of them needed total replacement of thoracoabodominal aorta by the graft. In the near future, Adamkiewicz artery may be detected by the imaging technology preoperatively and we expect the repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm may become safer operation avoiding spinal cord injury. Hypothermic circulatory arrest is a relatively safe and reliable method for the repair of thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms.
Clinical outcome of the operation using deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass with intervals of circulatory arrest in thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm]	Deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass with intervals of circulatory arrest has been used for protection of the spinal cord during operations for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA) in our hospital. We examined the effect of this adjunct this time. We studied 15 patients who were operated using deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass with intervals of circulatory arrest among 19 patients with the TAAA who we performed the operations from 1995 through 2003. The patients ranged in age from 21 to 80 (an average of 65 +/- 14 SD) years. We used deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass with intervals of circulatory arrest between 16 and 20 degrees C for the adjunct but did not use a monitor of evoked spinal cord potentials or cerebrospinal fluid drainage. Operation time was an average of 805 +/- 168 minutes. Cardiopulmonary bypass time was an average of 403 +/- 73 minutes. Deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass time was an average of 215 +/- 67.5 SD minutes. Duration of spinal cord ischemia to the intercostal arteries were reconstructed was from 25 to 104 (50.5 +/- 24) minutes. We recognized nerve disorder in 6 cases in progress after operation, and respiratory organs management period and a hospitalization period became long, but the hospitalization death was 3 cases, and, as for the paraplegia was no case, 12 patients were discharged in good condition. The deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass with intervals of circulatory arrest was regarded as a useful adjunct for prevention of the paraplegia.
Spinal cord protection during most or all of descending thoracic or thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair]	The purpose of this study is to evaluate usefulness of perfusion cooling for regional spinal cord hypothermia during most or all of thoracic or thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair.
Spinal cord protection and operative results of the thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm]	The purpose of this study was to review retrospectively recent results in 75 patients undergoing thoracoabdominal aortic operations using the technique of distal aortic perfusion with segmental aortic clamping. Between July 1997 and November 2003, 46 males (61%) and 29 females (39%) were treated. The patients ranged in age from 26 to 82 (mean 63 +/- 13) years. Indications for surgery included dissecting thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (n = 28), atherosclerotic thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (n = 46), and traumatic aneurysm (n = 1). Emergency operation was performed in 8 (11%). The extent of aneurysm was Crawford type I in 12 patients, type II in 19, type III in 34, and type IV in 10. Profound hypothermic circulatory arrest was used in 3 patients and retrograde segmental clamping technique in 5. Cerebrospinal fluid drainage and naloxone hydrochloride administration were performed as adjunctive methods since February 2000. There were 6 (8%) in-hospital deaths. The overall incidence of postoperative paraplegia or paraparesis was 8% (6/75). Although the survival rate has improved, the problem of a complete prevention of ischemic spinal cord injury on the thoracoabdominal aortic operations remains unsolved. The multimodality approach is needed to reduce the risk of this devastating complication.
Surgical treatment for thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm]	Spinal cord injury such as paraparesis and paraplegia remains one of the major concerns in surgery on the thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA). We utilize spinal cord protection including cerebrospinal fluid drainage (CSFD), adjuncts of aortic distal perfusion, reconstruction of the intercostal or lumbar arteries and deep hypothermia in TAAA repair. This report describes the results of surgical treatment for TAAA including postoperative neurological outcome. Between October 1999 and January 2004, 33 patients (mean age 66 years; range 26 to 81) underwent TAAA repair. Adamkiewicz artery could be detected using magnetic resonance angiography in 9 patients. CSFD was done in 20 patients. TAAA repair was achieved using adjuncts of aortic distal perfusion in 31 patients (partial cardiopulmonary bypass: 19, deep hypothermia: 9, left heart bypass: 3). We tried to reconstruct the intercostal or lumbar arteries which were located between Th8 and L2 as possible. Twenty-five patients underwent reconstruction of the intercostal or lumbar arteries. There were 6 hospital deaths. Postoperative spinal cord injury occurred in 4 patients (paraparesis: 1, paraplegia: 3). This clinical experience demonstrates that current technical strategies enable patients to undergo TAAA repair with acceptable early survival. However, despite aggressive spinal cord protection, few patients suffered from postoperative spinal cord injury. Future research should focus on spinal cord protection in patients with TAAA.
Strategy for spinal cord protection during thoracoabdominal aortic surgery]	Our basic strategy for spinal cord protection during thoracoabdominal aortic surgery has been established since August 1994 such as: 1) distal aortic perfusion using partial cardiopulmonary bypass (32-34 degrees C), 2) multi-segmental sequential clamping, 3) deep hypothermic circulatory arrest when sequential clamping is impossible, 4) evoked spinal cord potential-guided reconstruction of the critical intercostal arteries (preoperative evaluation using multi-detector row computed tomography), 5) cerebrospinal fluid drainage, and 6) administration of naloxone hydrochloride and methylprednisolone. In this paper, we analyzed clinical outcome of thoracoabdominal aortic surgery according to this strategy.
TREK-1, a K+ channel involved in neuroprotection and general anesthesia.	TREK-1 is a two-pore-domain background potassium channel expressed throughout the central nervous system. It is opened by polyunsaturated fatty acids and lysophospholipids. It is inhibited by neurotransmitters that produce an increase in intracellular cAMP and by those that activate the Gq protein pathway. TREK-1 is also activated by volatile anesthetics and has been suggested to be an important target in the action of these drugs. Using mice with a disrupted TREK-1 gene, we now show that TREK-1 has an important role in neuroprotection against epilepsy and brain and spinal chord ischemia. Trek1-/- mice display an increased sensitivity to ischemia and epilepsy. Neuroprotection by polyunsaturated fatty acids, which is impressive in Trek1+/+ mice, disappears in Trek1-/- mice indicating a central role of TREK-1 in this process. Trek1-/- mice are also resistant to anesthesia by volatile anesthetics. TREK-1 emerges as a potential innovative target for developing new therapeutic agents for neurology and anesthesiology.
Electrophysiologic monitoring during surgery to repair the thoracoabdominal aorta.	The repair of aneurysms and dissections that involve the thoracoabdominal aorta represent a major stress to the cardiovascular surgery team because of the feared complication of paraplegia. Here, the etiology of this complication is explained through a description of the relevant surgical anatomy and characteristics of hemodynamic support. In addition, recent advances in the neurophysiologic assessment of the descending motor pathways and their application to perioperative monitoring are discussed.
Protection of the central nervous system during thoracic aortic surgery]	Cardiovascular surgery is constantly progressing. However, the prevalence of central nervous system injury is greater after operations on the aortic arch than after other types of aortic or cardiac surgery. The central nervous system injury is a frequent cause of death or complications after such operations and is likely to occur as a result of the embolization of particulate matter or severe global ischemia during the interval of circulatory arrest. Several different methods are currently being used to protect them during operations on the aortic arch. This thesis is organized about the protection methods for these procedures.
Brain and spinal cord preconditioning for the protection against ischemic injury]	Recent studies have suggested that the brain preconditioning could induce tolerance to ischemia in humans. It has been believed that newly synthesized proteins are required for the acquisition of delayed tolerance in the brain and spinal cord. However, the mechanism other than the synthesis of neuroprotective proteins may also play a pivotal role. Preconditioning may reprogram the response to ischemic injury as seen during hibernation. Preconditioning with hyperbaric oxygen, volatile anesthetics, and xenon seems to be the focus of the attention from the standpoint of the clinical setting. Strong neuroprotection by the preconditioning with isoflurane and xenon is reported in animal experiments and may change the traditional idea of neuroprotection by anesthetics. The discovery that erythropoietin exerts neuroprotective properties has opened new therapeutic avenues. Erythropoietin is induced in the brain by hypoxic preconditioning and by the pharmacological preconditioning. In addition, the intravenous administration of erythropoietin has been shown to be safe and beneficial for acute stroke in humans. Therefore, erythropoietin is now one of the most promising neuroprotective agents. The research in the brain and spinal cord preconditioning will contribute to the elucidation of the mechanism of ischemic injury and to the establishment of new therapies for neuroprotection.
A novel approach to prevent spinal cord ischemia: Inoue stent graft with a side branch of small caliber for the reconstruction of the artery of Adamkiewicz.	Paraplegia remains a serious complication after endovascular repair of thoracic aortic aneurysms, and it has been reported that paraplegia might be due to ischemia of the artery of Adamkiewicz. This study investigates the feasibility of an Inoue stent graft with a side branch of a small caliber for the reconstruction of the intercostal artery branching the artery of Adamkiewicz.
Perioperative implications of retrograde flow in both the subclavian arteries in an adult undergoing surgical repair of coarctation of aorta.	During surgical repair of coarctation of aorta (CoA), management of spinal cord ischemia and prevention of paraplegia is an important issue. The risk factors for paraplegia include level and duration of aortic-clamping, clamping of left subclavian artery (SCA), intraoperative temperature, variability of collateral circulation to the spinal cord, cerebrospinal fluid pressure, upper body arterial pressure, and aortic pressure beyond the aortic clamp. A short clamp time (<30 min), and distal aortic pressure>60 mmHg, minimizes the risks of spinal cord injury. In an adult patient during surgical repair of CoA, the arterial pressure in the femoral artery remained around 45 mmHg and repair took 83 min of aortic-clamping. Neurological assessment on regaining consciousness showed no deficit of lower limbs. Aortic root angiogram had shown retrograde filling of both SCAs. A unique situation in which clamping of SCAs would increase flow to the spinal cord as their clamping would stop stealing of blood and aortic-clamping proximal to CoA will further increase collateral flow; because of these reasons, the patient tolerated prolonged aortic-clamping despite low distal aortic pressure without neurological deficit. However, aortic-clamping increased left ventricular after-load and the patient developed worsening of mitral regurgitation and pulmonary hypertension during aortic clamping.
