Immunophilin ligands FK506 and cyclosporine A improve neurologic and histopathologic outcome after transient spinal cord ischemia in rabbits.	We comparatively evaluated the protective effect of the immunophilin ligands cyclosporine A (INN: ciclosporin), FK506, and rapamycin on the spinal cord in a rabbit model of transient ischemia. Both cyclosporine A and FK506 inhibit calcineurin, whereas rapamycin does not.
Neuroprotective effect of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid in a rabbit spinal ischemia model.	Postoperative paraplegia remains a serious complication after repair of a thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm. The release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate might be responsible for ischemic neuronal damage. We investigated the effect of 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) on the prevention of paraplegia in a rabbit model of spinal cord ischemia.
Uveitis associated with Primary Angiitis of the Central Nervous System.	In Primary Angiitis of the Central Nervous System (PACNS), disease is typically limited to the brain and spinal cord although other organs may be affected. Uveitis is occasionally seen in systemic vasculitides but is not a recognized manifestation of PACNS. We describe two patients who developed PACNS following the onset of uveitis.
Inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway reduces microglial activation and interleukin-1-beta expression in spinal cord ischemia/reperfusion injury in rats.	Ischemic spinal cord injury is a serious complication of aortic surgery. Although the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 are generally regarded as related to cell proliferation and survival, increasing evidence suggests that the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway in ischemia/reperfusion injury is much more sophisticated.
Effects of ketamine on the balance of ions Ca2+, Mg2+, Cu2+ and Zn2+ in the ischemia-reperfusion affected spinal cord tissues in rabbits.	To test the effects of ketamine on metal ion balance in the spinal cord tissues after ischemic reperfusion (I/R), 24 white adult Japanese rabbits were randomly assigned to sham operation group, I/R group or ketamine-treated I/R group. Spinal cord injuries in I/R group and ketamine-treated I/R group were induced by aortic occlusions. Rabbits in ketamine-treated I/R group were intravenously infused 10 mg/kg ketamine twice: once at 10 min before aortic clamping and once at the onset of reperfusion. Post-operative neurological functions and concentrations of ions Ca2+, Mg2+, Cu2+ and Zn2+ in the spinal cord were assessed. Compared with the sham operation group, rabbits in the I/R group showed significantly worsened neurological functions as scored with the modified Tarlov criteria and altered concentrations of ions Ca2+, Mg2+, Cu2+ and Zn2+. These unfavorable changes were significantly reversed in the ketamine-treated I/R group, suggesting that the potent protective effects of ketamine against the I/R-induced spinal cord injuries may be due to its ability to maintain ion balance in the I/R affected tissues.
A peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonist attenuates neurological deficits following spinal cord ischemia in rats.	Neuroprotective effects of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonist in cerebral ischemia have been reported, but the effect of a PPARγ agonist on spinal cord ischemia has not been investigated. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of a PPARγ agonist on spinal cord ischemia. Pioglitazone, a PPARγ agonist, was administered in a rat model of spinal cord ischemia, and the extent of neurological damage and histological alterations were assessed.
