Alterations in AMPA receptor subunit expression after experimental spinal cord contusion injury.	The AMPA-preferring subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors (GluRs) is a hetero-oligomeric ion channel assembled from various combinations of four subunits: GluR1, GluR2, GluR3, and GluR4. Antagonists of these receptors can mitigate the effects of experimental spinal cord injury (SCI), indicating that these receptors play a significant role in pathophysiology after spinal trauma. We tested the hypothesis that SCI alters expression of AMPA receptors using a standardized thoracic weight-drop model of rat contusive spinal cord injury. AMPA receptor subunit expression was measured at 24 hr and at 1 month after SCI with quantitative Western blot analysis and in situ hybridization. GluR2 protein levels were preferentially reduced near the injury site 24 hr after SCI. This reduction persisted at 1 month. At a cellular level, a significant decrease in both GluR2 and GluR4 mRNA was found in spared ventral motor neurons adjacent to the injury site and distal to it, with other AMPA subunit mRNAs maintained at control levels. In contrast, only GluR1 mRNA was decreased in the sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the intermediolateral horn. These results suggest population-specific and long-lasting changes in neuronal AMPA receptor composition, which may alter response to glutamate after SCI. These alterations may contribute not only to acute neuropathological consequences of injury, but they may also be partially responsible for the altered functional state of preserved tissue seen chronically after SCI.
Systemic hypothermia following compression injury of rat spinal cord: reduction of plasma protein extravasation demonstrated by immunohistochemistry.	Systemic hypothermia has neuroprotective effects in experimental models of central nervous system ischemia caused by vascular occlusions. The present study addresses the question as to whether systemic hypothermia can influence the extravasation of plasma proteins following severe spinal cord compression trauma using immunohistochemistry to identify the plasma proteins albumin, fibrinogen and fibronectin. Fifteen rats were assigned to one of three groups and received either thoracic (T) laminectomy or severe spinal cord compression trauma of the T8-9 segment. One group comprised laminectomized animals without compression trauma submitted to a hypothermic procedure in which the core temperature was reduced from 38 degrees to 30 degrees C. The two trauma groups were either submitted to the same hypothermic procedure or kept normothermic during the corresponding time. All animals were killed 24 h following the surgical procedure. The normothermic and hypothermic trauma groups had indications of marked extravasation of albumin, fibrinogen and fibronectin at the site of the injury (T8-9). There was also pronounced extravasation in the cranial and caudal peri-injury zones (T7 and T10) of normothermic injured rats but, with few exceptions, not in the hypothermic ones with the same degree of compression. By measuring the cross-sectional area of the peri-injury zones we found in the hypothermic trauma group a significant reduction of the expansion compared with that present in normothermic injured rats. Our study thus indicates that hypothermia reduces the extravasation of the plasma proteins albumin, fibrinogen and fibronectin following spinal cord compression in the rat. Such a reduction may contribute to neuroprotective effects exerted by hypothermia.
Convective delivery of macromolecules into the naive and traumatized spinal cords of rats.	Many macromolecules have the potential to enhance recovery after injury and other lesions of the spinal cord, but because of the limited penetration of these compounds across the blood-spinal cord barrier, they cannot be used effectively. To determine if convective delivery could be used in a common animal model to investigate potential therapeutic macromolecules and to examine the effects of trauma on convective delivery in that model, the authors examined the distribution of a macromolecule in naive and traumatized rat spinal cords.
Regulation of clusterin expression following spinal cord injury.	We have investigated the localization and regulation of a putative extracellular chaperone, clusterin, in the rat spinal cord after lesion. In control animals, clusterin is expressed in motoneurons, in meningeal and ependymal cells, and in astrocytes mainly located beneath the pial surface. Beginning at day 2 after hemisection at segmental level C6, clusterin levels increase in GFAP-positive astrocytes within the lesioned segment. Three weeks after trauma, clusterin mRNA and protein are elevated in neurons close to the lesion site and in glial elements within scar tissue and within degenerating fiber tracts rostral and caudal to the lesion. This study provides evidence for a role of clusterin in the subacute and late phase of spinal cord injury.
Primary cortical motor neurons undergo apoptosis after axotomizing spinal cord injury.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in loss of voluntary motor control followed by incomplete recovery, which is partly mediated by the descending corticospinal tract (CST). This system is an important target for therapeutic repair strategies after SCI; however, the question of whether apoptotic cell death occurs in these axotomized neurons remains unanswered. In this study, adult (150-175 g) male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent T9 transection of the dorsal funiculus, which axotomizes the dorsal CST, and introduction of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold into the lesion site. Primary motor cortex (M1) was then examined for evidence of apoptosis weekly for 4 weeks after injury. Axotomized pyramidal cells, identified by retrograde transport of Fluoro-Gold, were found in M1 (57.5 +/- 9.6/median section, 6127 +/- 292 total), and a significant proportion were terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) -mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate (dUTP)-rhodamine nick end labeling (TUNEL) -positive at 1 week after injury (39.3 +/- 5.6%), compared with animals undergoing sham surgery (1.2 +/- 1.4%). At 2-4 weeks, fewer cells were Fluoro-Gold-positive (24.6 +/- 65.06 to 25.3 +/- 6.4/median section, 2338 +/- 233 to 2393 +/- 124 total), of which very few were TUNEL-positive. In TUNEL-positive cells, Hoechst 33342 staining revealed nuclear morphology consistent with apoptosis, chromatin condensation, and formation of apoptotic bodies. Fluoro-Gold-positive cells showed increased caspase-3 and Bax immunoreactivity. Hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed similar nuclear changes and dystrophic cells. Internucleosomal DNA fragmentation was detected by gel electrophoresis at the 1-week time point. Lesioned animals not receiving Fluoro-Gold exhibited the same markers of apoptosis. These results document, for the first time, features of apoptotic cell death in a proportion of axotomized cortical motor neurons after SCI, suggesting that protection from apoptosis may be a prerequisite for regenerative approaches to SCI.
Transection of the adult rat spinal cord upregulates EphB3 receptor and ligand expression.	Eph receptors and ligands represent two families of proteins that control axonal guidance during development. Recent work has shown that several Eph receptors are expressed postnatally. Because the Eph molecules represent a class of axon guidance molecules that are mainly inhibitory to axonal growth, we investigated whether EphB3 expression was upregulated in both spinal cord and four supraspinal nuclei (locus coeruleus, vestibular, raphe pallidus, and red) 1 week after a complete spinal cord thoracic transection. Injured rats had a significant increase in EphB3 mRNA and protein expression in the spinal cord. The increased EphB3 expression was colocalized with GFAP staining and indicated that astrocytes play a role in EphB3 expression after spinal cord injury. No change in EphB3 expression was seen in supraspinal brain nuclei, which further demonstrated that changes in expression were due to changes in the local microenvironment at the injury site. The expression of EphB3 was colocalized to regions of the CNS that had a high level of EphB3 binding ligands. These data indicate upregulation of EphB3 expression after injury may also contribute to an environment in the spinal cord that is inhibitory to axonal regeneration.
Morphological characterization of photochemical graded spinal cord injury in the rat.	This study characterizes the histological and immunohistochemical changes in the adult rat spinal cord following photochemically induced spinal cord lesions. The spinal cord was exposed by laminectomy (T12-L1 vertebrae) and bathed with 1.5% rose bengal solution for 10 min. The excess dye was removed by saline rinse and the spinal cord was irradiated with "cold" light for 0, 1, 2.5, 5, and 10 min in different groups of rats. After 15 days a graded loss of spinal tissue was observed according to photoinduction times. Animals irradiated for 1 min showed spinal cavities involving the dorsal funiculi. The cavity became progressively larger, involving dorsal horns in animals irradiated for 2.5 min, together with the dorsolateral funiculi in animals irradiated for 5 min and the ventrolateral funiculi in those irradiated for 10 min, with loss of gray matter in these three groups. Changes in GFAP-, CGRP-, proteoglycan- and calbindin-immunoreactivity were observed in all lesioned groups when compared with control spinal cords. Hypertrophied and heavily GFAP- and proteoglycan-stained astrocytes were seen in irradiated spinal cords. Reactive microglial cells were also found. Both astroglial and microglial reactions paralleled the severity of the spinal cord lesion. A significant loss of CGRP-immunoreactive somas was seen in animals irradiated for 10 min, whereas the wider distribution of calbindin-positive neurons was found in lesioned rats. In spinal cord sections from animals illuminated for 5 min and perfused 60 min postillumination, light and electron microscopy showed cytotoxic edema with astrocytic swelling, red blood cell extravasation, and myelin degradation.
Spontaneous recovery of locomotion induced by remaining fibers after spinal cord transection in adult rats.	A major issue in analysis of experimental results after spinal cord injury is spontaneous functional recovery induced by remaining nerve fibers. The authors investigated the relationship between the degree of locomotor recovery and the percentage and location of the fibers that spared spinal cord transection.
Role of antisense oligodeoxynucleotide of inducible nitric oxide synthase in the apoptosis and p-p38 MAPK signal transduction in rat neurons after spinal cord injury]	To study the role of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ASODN) of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) on the apoptosis and p-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p-p38 MAPK) signal transduction of the neurons after spinal cord injury (SCI).
Post-traumatic inflammation following spinal cord injury.	Inflammatory reaction following a spinal cord injury (SCI) contributes substantially to secondary effects, with both beneficial and devastating effects. This review summarizes the current knowledge concerning the structural features (vascular, cellular, and biochemical events) of SCI and gives an overview of the regulation of post-traumatic inflammation.
Early induction of secondary injury factors causing activation of calpain and mitochondria-mediated neuronal apoptosis following spinal cord injury in rats.	To investigate a potential relationship between calpain and mitochondrial damage in spinal cord injury (SCI), a 40 gram-centimeter force (g-cm) injury was induced in rats by a weight-drop method and allowed to progress for 4 hr. One-centimeter segments of spinal cord tissue representing the adjacent rostral, lesion, and adjacent caudal areas were then removed for various analyses. Calcium green 2-AM staining of the lesion and penumbra sections showed an increase in intracellular free calcium (Ca(2+)) levels following injury, compared with corresponding tissue sections from sham-operated (control) animals. Western blot analysis showed increased calpain expression and activity in the lesion and penumbra segments following SCI. Double-immunofluorescent labeling indicated that increased calpain expression occurred in neurons in injured segments. Western blot analysis also showed an increased Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, indicating the induction of the mitochondria-mediated cell death pathway in the lesion and penumbra. The morphology of mitochondria was altered in lesion and penumbra following SCI: mostly hydropic change (swelling) in the lesion, with the penumbra shrunken or normal. At 4 hr after induction of injury, a substantial amount of cytochrome c had been released into the cytoplasm, suggesting a trigger for apoptosis through caspase 3 activation. Neuronal death after 4 hr of injury was detected by a combined TUNEL and double-immunofluoresence assay in the lesion and penumbra sections of injured cord, compared with sham controls. These results suggest that an early induction of secondary factors is involved in the pathogenesis of SCI. The increased Ca(2+) levels could activate calpain and mediate mitochondrial damage leading to neuronal death in lesion and penumbra following injury. Thus, secondary injury processes mediating cell death are induced as early as 4 hr after the injury, and calpain and caspase inhibitors may provide neuroprotection.
Upregulation of osteopontin expression in rat spinal cord microglia after traumatic injury.	Osteopontin is a noncollagenous extracellular matrix protein that is expressed in various tissues. Recent studies have shown the upregulation of osteopontin expression in the ischemic cortex after cerebral infarction. We demonstrate here the upregulation of osteopontin expression in the spinal cord after compression injury. Laboratory rats were used in a compression model of spinal cord injury (30-g load for 5 min). Northern blot analysis showed that osteopontin mRNA expression levels reached a peak 3 days after injury (sevenfold; p < 0.05). In situ hybridization demonstrated osteopontin mRNA expression in necrotic areas from 24 h, peaking 3 days after injury. Immunohistochemistry detected osteopontin protein immunoreactivity from 12 h, peaking at 3 days. The peak time and distribution of osteopontin protein expression were coincident with those of osteopontin mRNA expression. Osteopontin expression in our model preceded that shown in the previously reported cerebral infarction models. Osteopontin protein was found in the cytoplasm at 3 days and secreted into the extracellular matrix at 7 days. Triple immunolabeling showed that osteopontin was localized in activated microglia surrounded by astrocytes.
Changes in glial cell white matter AMPA receptor expression after spinal cord injury and relationship to apoptotic cell death.	Increasing evidence suggests that AMPA receptors (AMPARs) play a key role in mediating excitotoxic cell damage after acute spinal cord injury (SCI). However, the role of glial AMPARs in posttraumatic white matter injury requires further clarification. In the present study we examined the changes in AMPAR expression after SCI, the cellular distribution of these changes, and their association with apoptosis. Western blots revealed expression of GluR1, 3, and 4, but not GluR2, in spinal cord white matter. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the distribution of AMPARs in spinal cord white matter. Quantification of AMPAR-expressing cells in spinal cord white matter indicated predominantly GluR3 expression in oligodendrocytes and predominantly GluR4 expression in astrocytes. A clip compression model of SCI was used to examine the changes in AMPAR expression in dorsal column white matter after injury. Quantitative analysis of GluR3 levels of expression indicated a significant decrease at 3 days postinjury compared to uninjured animals, followed by a recovery of expression by 2 weeks. GluR4 subunits followed a similar expression pattern. Gene message expression of GluR3 and GluR4 flip/flop mRNA splice variants exhibited a pattern of expression that correlated with protein expression. GluR3-expressing glia appeared to be more susceptible to apoptosis than GluR4-expressing cells. A large decline in GluR3-expressing oligodendrocytes suggests that this subunit may be associated with the induction of apoptosis in white matter glia, thus contributing to secondary injury mechanisms.
Activation of Rho in the injured axons following spinal cord injury.	Axons of the adult central nervous system have very limited ability to regenerate after injury. This inability may be, at least partly, attributable to myelin-derived proteins, such as myelin-associated glycoprotein, Nogo and oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein. Recent evidence suggests that these proteins inhibit neurite outgrowth by activation of Rho through the neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR)/Nogo receptor complex. Despite rapidly growing knowledge on these signals at the molecular level, it remained to be determined whether Rho is activated after injury to the central nervous system. To assess this question, we establish a new method to visualize endogenous Rho activity in situ. After treatment of cerebellar granular neurons with the Nogo peptide in vitro, Rho is spatially activated and colocalizes with p75(NTR). Following spinal cord injury in vivo, massive activation of Rho is observed in the injured neurites. Spatial regulation of Rho activity may be necessary for axonal regulation by the inhibitory cues.
Blockade of interleukin-6 receptor suppresses reactive astrogliosis and ameliorates functional recovery in experimental spinal cord injury.	Endogenous neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) have recently been shown to differentiate exclusively into astrocytes, the cells that are involved in glial scar formation after spinal cord injury (SCI). The microenvironment of the spinal cord, especially the inflammatory cytokines that dramatically increase in the acute phase at the injury site, is considered to be an important cause of inhibitory mechanism of neuronal differentiation following SCI. Interleukin-6 (IL-6), which has been demonstrated to induce NSPCs to undergo astrocytic differentiation selectively through the JAK/STAT pathway in vitro, has also been demonstrated to play a critical role as a proinflammatory cytokine and to be associated with secondary tissue damage in SCI. In this study, we assessed the efficacy of rat anti-mouse IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody (MR16-1) in the treatment of acute SCI in mice. Immediately after contusive SCI with a modified NYU impactor, mice were intraperitoneally injected with a single dose of MR16-1 (100 microg/g body weight), the lesions were assessed histologically, and the functional recovery was evaluated. MR16-1 not only suppressed the astrocytic diffentiation-promoting effect of IL-6 signaling in vitro but inhibited the development of astrogliosis after SCI in vivo. MR16-1 also decreased the number of invading inflammatory cells and the severity of connective tissue scar formation. In addition, we observed significant functional recovery in the mice treated with MR16-1 compared with control mice. These findings suggest that neutralization of IL-6 signaling in the acute phase of SCI represents an attractive option for the treatment of SCI.
Glial changes in primate cerebral cortex following long-term sensory deprivation.	Significant morphological modifications in the layout of primate-specific (interlaminar) astroglia were found in somatosensory areas 3a, 3b, 1 and 2 eleven to thirteen months after transection of the posterior spinal cord in adult Macaca monkeys. These observations plus lack of evidence of a persistent reactive astrocytosis suggest that changes in the spatial arrangement of interlaminar glia may be an integral part of the long-term process of structural reorganization of the cerebral cortex following cortical deafferentation.
Inactivity-induced modulation of Hsp20 and Hsp25 content in rat hindlimb muscles.	Denervation decreases small heat shock protein (HSP) content in the rat soleus muscle; however, it is unknown whether this change is due to inactivity or absence of a nerve-muscle connection. Spinal cord isolation (SI) is a model of inactivity with an intact neuromuscular connection. After 7 days of SI, Hsp20 and Hsp25 levels in the soleus, plantaris, and adductor longus muscles were lower than in control rats, whereas Hsp20 was unchanged and Hsp25 increased in the tibialis anterior. The results for the soleus indicate that these small HSPs respond to inactivity and that this response is not influenced by neural activity-independent factors. Furthermore, the data indicate that these HSPs are impacted to a greater degree in muscles that are predominantly slow or have an antigravity function than in flexor muscles. Understanding the regulation of these HSPs during chronic reductions in neuromuscular activity may have valuable applications for conditions such as spinal cord injury.
Changes in galanin immunoreactivity in rat lumbosacral spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia after spinal cord injury.	Alterations in the expression of the neuropeptide galanin were examined in micturition reflex pathways 6 weeks after complete spinal cord transection (T8). In control animals, galanin expression was present in specific regions of the gray matter in the rostral lumbar and caudal lumbosacral spinal cord, including: (1) the dorsal commissure; (2) the superficial dorsal horn; (3) the regions of the intermediolateral cell column (L1-L2) and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus (L6-S1); and (4) the lateral collateral pathway in lumbosacral spinal segments. Densitometry analysis demonstrated significant increases (P < or = 0.001) in galanin immunoreactivity (IR) in these regions of the S1 spinal cord after spinal cord injury (SCI). Changes in galanin-IR were not observed at the L4-L6 segments except for an increase in galanin-IR in the dorsal commissure in the L4 segment. In contrast, decreases in galanin-IR were observed in the L1 segment. The number of galanin-IR cells increased (P < or = 0.001) in the L1 and S1 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after SCI. In all DRG examined (L1, L2, L6, and S1), the percentage of bladder afferent cells expressing galanin-IR significantly increased (4-19-fold) after chronic SCI. In contrast, galanin expression in nerve fibers in the urinary bladder detrusor and urothelium was decreased or eliminated after SCI. Expression of the neurotrophic factors nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was altered in the spinal cord after SCI. A significant increase in BDNF expression was present in spinal cord segments after SCI. In contrast, NGF expression was only increased in the spinal segments adjacent and rostral to the transection site (T7-T8), whereas spinal segments (T13-L1; L6-S1), distal to the transection site exhibited decreased NGF expression. Changes in galanin expression in micturition pathways after SCI may be mediated by changing neurotrophic factor expression, particularly BDNF. These changes may contribute to urinary bladder dysfunction after SCI.
Influence of electrical stimulation on the morphological and metabolic properties of paralyzed muscle.	Selected morphological and metabolic properties of single fibers were studied in biopsy samples from the tibialis anterior of normal control and spinal cord-injured (SCI) subjects. In the SCI subjects, one muscle was electrically stimulated progressively over 24 wk, in 6-wk blocks for less than or equal to 8 h/day, while the contralateral muscle remained untreated. The percentage of fibers classified as type I [qualitative alkaline preincubation myofibrillar adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase)] was significantly less in the unstimulated paralyzed muscles than in the muscles of normal control subjects. Electrical stimulation increased the proportion of type I fibers in the SCI subjects. For both type I and type II fibers, the cross-sectional area, activities of myofibrillar ATPase and succinate dehydrogenase, and the capillary-to-fiber ratio were also significantly less in the paralyzed muscles than in the normal control muscles. Electrical stimulation increased only the activity of succinate dehydrogenase in both fiber types of the SCI subjects. These data are discussed in relation to the electromechanical properties of the respective muscles described in an accompanying paper (J. Appl. Physiol. 72: 1393-1400, 1992). In general, the electrical stimulation protocol used in this study enhanced the oxidative capacity and endurance properties of the paralyzed muscles but had no effect on fiber size and strength.
Endogenous recovery of injured spinal cord: longitudinal in vivo magnetic resonance imaging.	Pathological changes were followed longitudinally with in vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and behavioral studies in experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). MRI-observed pathology was correlated with histology. On MRI, the cavitated regions of the injured cord were gradually filled with viable tissue between two and 8 weeks postinjury, and a concomitant improvement was observed in the neurobehavioral scores. By weeks 3-6, on MRI, the gray matter (GM) returned in the segments caudal, but not rostral, to the injury site. The corresponding histological sections revealed motor neurons as well as other nuclei in the gray matter immediately caudal to the epicenter, but not at the site of injury, suggesting neuronal recovery in perilesioned areas. The neuronal and neurological recovery appeared to occur about the same time as neovasculature that was reported on the contrast-enhanced MRI, suggesting a role for angiogenesis in recovery from SCI. The role of angiogenesis in neuronal recovery is further supported by the immunohistochemical observation of greater bromodeoxyuridine uptake by blood vessels near the lesion site compared with uninjured cords.
In vivo and in vitro characterization of novel neuronal plasticity factors identified following spinal cord injury.	Following spinal cord injury, there are numerous changes in gene expression that appear to contribute to either neurodegeneration or reparative processes. We utilized high density oligonucleotide microarrays to examine temporal gene profile changes after spinal cord injury in rats with the goal of identifying novel factors involved in neural plasticity. By comparing mRNA changes that were coordinately regulated over time with genes previously implicated in nerve regeneration or plasticity, we found a gene cluster whose members are involved in cell adhesion processes, synaptic plasticity, and/or cytoskeleton remodeling. This group, which included the small GTPase Rab13 and actin-binding protein Coronin 1b, showed significantly increased mRNA expression from 7-28 days after trauma. Overexpression in vitro using PC-12, neuroblastoma, and DRG neurons demonstrated that these genes enhance neurite outgrowth. Moreover, RNAi gene silencing for Coronin 1b or Rab13 in NGF-treated PC-12 cells markedly reduced neurite outgrowth. Coronin 1b and Rab13 proteins were expressed in cultured DRG neurons at the cortical cytoskeleton, and at growth cones along with the pro-plasticity/regeneration protein GAP-43. Finally, Coronin 1b and Rab13 were induced in the injured spinal cord, where they were also co-expressed with GAP-43 in neurons and axons. Modulation of these proteins may provide novel targets for facilitating restorative processes after spinal cord injury.
Spinal cord injury-induced expression of TrkA, TrkB, phosphorylated CREB, and c-Jun in rat lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia.	Previous studies have demonstrated increased expression and phosphorylation of tyrosine kinase receptor (TrkA, TrkB) in lumbosacral DRG after chronic (6 weeks) spinal cord (T8-T10) injury. This study examined the effects of acute SCI (48 hours, 2 weeks) on TrkA and TrkB expression and phosphorylation, and CREB and c-Jun expression in DRG. A significant increase in the number of TrkA- (1.5-3-fold; P < or = 0.05), TrkB- (1.3-2.0-fold; P < or = 0.05), and phosphorylated Trk (pTrk)-immunoreactive (1.5-3-fold; P < or = 0.05) cells was observed in the L1, L6, and S1 DRG 48 hours, 2, or 6 weeks after SCI. A significant increase in the number of phosphorylated (p-) CREB-immunoreactive cells was observed in the L1, L2, L6, and S1 DRG 48 hours, 2, or 6 weeks after SCI. The largest changes in p-CREB-immunoreactivity were in L1 and L2 DRG (10-fold; P <or= 0.01) at 48 hours after SCI; however, changes were modest in bladder afferent neurons. After SCI, the overall number of c-Jun-immunoreactive cells in L1, L2, and S1 DRG was dramatically increased (3-10-fold; P < or = 0.01); however, only a low percentage of bladder afferent cells expressed c-Jun-IR before or after SCI. In summary, these results suggest that TrkA or TrkB may be involved in reorganization of micturition pathways after SCI. However, CREB or c-Jun may not be downstream transcription factors in Trk-mediated signaling cascades in micturition reflex pathways after SCI but may play a role in other, nonbladder SCI-induced changes.
Prolonged local neurotrophin-3 infusion reduces ipsilateral collateral sprouting of spared corticospinal axons in adult rats.	The corticospinal tract is widely used to study regeneration and is essential for voluntary movements in humans. In young rats, corticospinal axons on the uninjured side sprout and grow into the denervated side. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) induces such crossed collateral sprouting in adults. We investigated whether local intraspinal NT-3 infusions would promote collateral sprouting of spared corticospinal terminals from within a partially denervated side, as this would be more appropriate for enhancing function of unilateral and specific movements. Adult rats received a partial bilateral transection of the pyramids, leaving approximately 40% of each tract intact. Vehicle or vehicle plus NT-3 (3 or 10 microg/day) was infused for 14 days into the left side of the cervical (C5/6) or lumbar (L2) cord. The corticospinal processes on the left side were anterogradely traced with cholera toxin B (CTB; which labeled gray matter processes more robustly than biotinylated dextran amine) injected into the front or hind limb area of the right sensorimotor cortex, respectively, 3 days before analysis. Unexpectedly, approximately 40% fewer CTB-labeled corticospinal processes were detectable in the cervical or lumbar gray matter of NT-3-treated rats than in vehicle-infused ones. Vehicle-infused injured rats had more corticospinal processes in the center of the cord than normal rats, evidence for lesion-induced collateral sprouting. NT-3 caused sprouting of local calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive fibers. These results suggest that NT-3 reduces collateral sprouting of spared corticospinal axons from within the denervated regions, possibly because of the injury environment or by increasing sprouting of local afferents. They identify an unexpected context-dependent outgrowth inhibitory effect of NT-3.
Doublecortin expression levels in adult brain reflect neurogenesis.	Progress in the field of neurogenesis is currently limited by the lack of tools enabling fast and quantitative analysis of neurogenesis in the adult brain. Doublecortin (DCX) has recently been used as a marker for neurogenesis. However, it was not clear whether DCX could be used to assess modulations occurring in the rate of neurogenesis in the adult mammalian central nervous system following lesioning or stimulatory factors. Using two paradigms increasing neurogenesis levels (physical activity and epileptic seizures), we demonstrate that quantification of DCX-expressing cells allows for an accurate measurement of modulations in the rate of adult neurogenesis. Importantly, we excluded induction of DCX expression during physiological or reactive gliogenesis and excluded also DCX re-expression during regenerative axonal growth. Our data validate DCX as a reliable and specific marker that reflects levels of adult neurogenesis and its modulation. We demonstrate that DCX is a valuable alternative to techniques currently used to measure the levels of neurogenesis. Importantly, in contrast to conventional techniques, analysis of neurogenesis through the detection of DCX does not require in vivo labelling of proliferating cells, thereby opening new avenues for the study of human neurogenesis under normal and pathological conditions.
Medium and large injured dorsal root ganglion cells increase TRPV-1, accompanied by increased alpha2C-adrenoceptor co-expression and functional inhibition by clonidine.	Some electrophysiologic studies demonstrate new, excitatory alpha2-adrenoceptors on peripheral nociceptors and their dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cell bodies after nerve injury, yet administration of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists at these sites reduces hypersensitivity rather than worsens it. Since TRPV-1 expressing nociceptor afferents are important in many pain states, we examined the expression of this channel and its co-expression with alpha2C-adrenoceptors in injured DRG cell bodies and the ability of alpha2-adrenoceptors to inhibit responses to stimulation. Rats underwent tight ligation of the left L5 and L6 spinal nerves, followed by behavioral testing, removal of L5 and L6 DRGs, and either immunostaining for TRPV-1 channels and alpha2C-adrenoceptors or intracellular calcium videomicroscopy in response to electrical field stimulation before and after perfusion with clonidine and capsaicin. Spinal nerve ligation produced tactile allodynia. In normal and sham controls, about one-third of DRG neurons were TRPV-1-immunoreactive (IR), one half were alpha2C-adrenoceptor-IR and one-fourth co-expressed both. After nerve ligation there was a reduction in the number of small, strongly TRPV-1-IR or alpha2C-adrenoceptor-IR neurons, but an increase in medium and large, lightly stained cells and in their co-expression. The proportion of clonidine inhibited cells which responded to capsaicin increased 5 fold after injury. We conclude that TRPV-1 and alpha2C-adrenoceptors are up-regulated in some injured medium and large size neurons after nerve ligation. Increased co-expression by immunocytochemistry, and increased proportion of cells inhibited by clonidine and expressing functional TRPV-1 channels suggest that these cells may play an important role in the analgesic effects of alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists in neuropathic pain.
Changes in distribution of serotonin induced by spinal injury in larval lampreys: evidence from immunohistochemistry and HPLC.	Larval lampreys are known to successfully recover normal behavior following spinal cord injury. More recently, we showed temperature can influence functional recovery, with colder temperatures more likely producing behavioral abnormality despite the cold being the animals' normal temperature. Here we analyze the differences associated with temperature effects. We examine serotonergic expression along the spinal cord following midbody lesions considering time from injury, temperature during recovery and fiber location. We also examine the relationship between regeneration and locomotion, insofar as the pattern of muscle potentials during unrestrained swimming is normal or abnormal. At 26 weeks after spinal cord injury in all groups of animals, immunohistochemistry and HPLC for serotonin and serotonin expression above and below the lesion can be significantly changed in all regional sources of serotonin independent of the temperature animals recover from their injuries. Animals from warmer tanks recover serotonin expression in the segment immediately caudal to the lesion site with little further away from the lesion; animals from the cold room aquaria have significantly less recovery of expression caudal to the lesion and none further away. There was no apparent relationship between the distribution of serotonin and recovery. The changes suggest that some intraspinal reorganization has occurred. We propose a relationship between the observed results and functional recovery, but it remains conjectural. The fact that some animals recover normal function suggests plasticity must occur in animals successful in recovering normal function. Thus, the lamprey can be used as a model system to study the adaptive changes that permit or prevent functional recovery.
Transplantation of bone marrow stromal cell-derived Schwann cells promotes axonal regeneration and functional recovery after complete transection of adult rat spinal cord.	The aim of this study was to evaluate whether transplantation of Schwann cells derived from bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC-SCs) promotes axonal regeneration and functional recovery in completely transected spinal cord in adult rats. Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) were induced to differentiate into Schwann cells in vitro. A 4-mm segment of rat spinal cord was removed completely at the T7 level. An ultra-filtration membrane tube, filled with a mixture of Matrigel (MG) and BMSC-SCs (BMSC-SC group) or Matrigel alone (MG group), was grafted into the gap. In the BMSC-SC group, the number of neurofilament- and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerve fibers was significantly higher compared to the MG group, although 5-hydroxytryptamine- or calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibers were rarely detectable in both groups. In the BMSC-SC group, significant recovery of the hindlimb function was recognized, which was abolished by retransection of the graft 6 weeks after transplantation. These results demonstrate that transplantation of BMSC-SCs promotes axonal regeneration of lesioned spinal cord, resulting in recovery of hindlimb function in rats. Transplantation of BMSC-SCs is a potentially useful treatment for spinal cord injury.
Attenuation in the evolution of experimental spinal cord trauma by treatment with melatonin.	Melatonin is the principal secretory product of the pineal gland and its role as an immuno-modulator is well established. Recent evidence shows that melatonin is a scavenger of oxyradicals and peroxynitrite and exerts protective effects in septic shock, hemorrhagic shock and inflammation. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of melatonin treatment, in a model of spinal cord injury (SCI). SCI was induced by the application of vascular clips (force of 50 g) to the dura via a four-level T5-T8 laminectomy. SCI in rats resulted in severe trauma characterized by edema, neutrophil infiltration and apoptosis (measured by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end-labeling staining). Infiltration of spinal cord tissue with neutrophils (measured as increase in myeloperoxidase activity) was associated with enhanced lipid peroxidation (increased tissue levels of malondialdehyde). Immunohistochemical examination demonstrated a marked increase in immunoreactivity for nitrotyrosine and Poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) in the spinal cord tissue. In contrast, the degree of (a) spinal cord inflammation and tissue injury (histological score), (b) nitrotyrosine and PAR formation, (c) neutrophils infiltration and (d) apoptosis was markedly reduced in spinal cord tissue obtained from rats treated with melatonin (50 mg/kg i.p., 30 min before SCI, 30 min, 6 hr, 12 hr and 24 hr after SCI). In a separate set of experiment we have clearly demonstrated that melatonin treatment significantly ameliorated the recovery of limb function (evaluated by motor recovery score). Taken together, our results demonstrate that treatment with melatonin reduces the development of inflammation and tissue injury events associated with spinal cord trauma.
Drastic decrease in isoflurane minimum alveolar concentration and limb movement forces after thoracic spinal cooling and chronic spinal transection in rats.	Individuals with spinal cord injury may undergo multiple surgical procedures; however, it is not clear how spinal cord injury affects anesthetic requirements and movement force under anesthesia during both acute and chronic stages of the injury.
X-irradiation reduces lesion scarring at the contusion site of adult rat spinal cord.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in cell death and tissue destruction, and ultimately cavitation followed by the formation of lesion scars at the injury site. The lesion scars include an astrocytic component (glial scar) and a fibroblastic component (connective tissue scar). The purpose of the present study is to determine if X-irradiation could minimize the formation of lesion scars and reduce the levels of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) in the contusion SCI model of the adult rat. Two weeks after SCI, a connective tissue scar formed at the injury site consisting primarily of fibroblasts and exhibits strong CSPG immunoreactivity. The fibroblasts might originate from the connective tissue of pia mater or arachnoid mater. At the same time, reactive astrocytes in the spared tissue accumulate surrounding the lesion cavity to form a thick glial scar with significant enhancement of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and CSPG immunoreactivity. After X-irradiation (40 Gy) of the injury site 2 days post-injury, that results in an attenuated dose to the lesion, the connective tissue scar was not observed, and accordingly, almost no CSPG immunoreactivity was detected at this area. Meanwhile, the glial scar and its CSPG immunoreactivity were prominently reduced. X-irradiation did not show significant improvement in locomotor recovery, but resulted in a slight delay of body weight recovery following injury. This preparative treatment could be used to reduce secondary scarring in the lesion resulting in an enriched site for further treatment such as growth related transplantation.
RhoA, RhoB, RhoC, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA levels in spinal cord, sensory ganglia, and corticospinal tract neurons and long-lasting specific changes following spinal cord injury.	Inhibition of RhoA has been shown to enhance axonal regeneration following spinal cord injury. Here we mapped mRNA expression patterns of RhoA, B, and C, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 in spinal cord, sensory ganglia, and sensorimotor cortex in uninjured rats, and following spinal cord injury or sham laminectomy. In the intact spinal cord, neurons displayed high levels of Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA hybridization signal. GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes expressed primarily RhoB and Rac1, while oligodendrocyte-like cells expressed RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42. Injury caused profound, long-lasting upregulation of RhoA, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA in the spinal cord, while RhoB was modestly increased and RhoC did not change. GFAP-immunoreactive reactive astrocytes exhibited a dramatic increase of RhoA mRNA expression along with increases of Rac1 and Cdc42. Injury also led to elevation of RhoA, Cdc42, and Tc10 in neurons and modest increases of RhoA, Rac1, and Tc10 in oligodendrocyte-like cells. Laminectomy caused similar, but less pronounced alterations of investigated mRNA species. In dorsal root ganglia neuronal RhoA, Rac1, Cdc42, and Tc10 mRNA levels were increased similarly by spinal cord injury and sham surgery. The CST pyramidal cells expressed Tc10 mRNA and the CST itself was Tc10-immunoreactive. Tc10-immunoreactivity disappeared distal to injury. We conclude that there are gene-specific patterns of expression of the six different Rho-GTPases in normal spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia, and that specific changes of temporal and spatial expression patterns occur in response to spinal cord injury, suggesting different roles of these GTPases in the cellular sequelae of CNS injury.
Regulation of neuropilin 1 by spinal cord injury in adult rats.	Using RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence, we have analyzed the expression of neuropilin 1 (Np1) in two models of spinal cord injury (spinal cord hemisection and dorsal column crush) and following dorsal root rhizotomy in adult rats. Our results show that Np1 RNA and protein are up-regulated in the spinal cord after all these lesions but remain unaltered in the adjacent dorsal root ganglia. In control animals, Np1 levels in the spinal cord are low and appear to be localized mainly in blood vessels, motoneurons, and in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. After DCC and rhizotomy, Np1 is expressed de novo around the injury and in the deafferentated dorsal horn, respectively, mainly by OX42-positive microglial cells. Both lesions affect the sensory projections, and interestingly a consistent increase of Np1 signal is additionally seen in the dorsal horn where these projections terminate. Unexpectedly, this increase is bilateral after unilateral rhizotomy.
Can regenerating axons recapitulate developmental guidance during recovery from spinal cord injury?	The precise wiring of the adult mammalian CNS originates during a period of stunning growth, guidance and plasticity that occurs during and shortly after development. When injured in adults, this intricate system fails to regenerate. Even when the obstacles to regeneration are cleared, growing adult CNS fibres usually remain misdirected and fail to reform functional connections. Here, we attempt to fill an important niche related to the topics of nervous system development and regeneration. We specifically contrast the difficulties faced by growing fibres within the adult context to the precise circuit-forming capabilities of developing fibres. In addition to focusing on methods to stimulate growth in the adult, we also expand on approaches to recapitulate development itself.
Glial inhibition of CNS axon regeneration.	Damage to the adult CNS often leads to persistent deficits due to the inability of mature axons to regenerate after injury. Mounting evidence suggests that the glial environment of the adult CNS, which includes inhibitory molecules in CNS myelin as well as proteoglycans associated with astroglial scarring, might present a major hurdle for successful axon regeneration. Here, we evaluate the molecular basis of these inhibitory influences and their contributions to the limitation of long-distance axon repair and other types of structural plasticity. Greater insight into glial inhibition is crucial for developing therapies to promote functional recovery after neural injury.
Tenascin-R restricts posttraumatic remodeling of motoneuron innervation and functional recovery after spinal cord injury in adult mice.	Tenascin-R (TNR) is an extracellular glycoprotein in the CNS implicated in neural development and plasticity. Its repellent properties for growing axons in a choice situation with a conducive substrate in vitro have indicated that TNR may impede regeneration in the adult mammalian CNS. Here we tested whether constitutive lack of TNR has beneficial impacts on recovery from spinal cord injury in adult mice. Using the Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale, we found that open-field locomotion in TNR-deficient (TNR-/-) mice recovered better that in wild-type (TNR+/+) littermates after compression of the thoracic spinal cord. We also designed, validated, and applied a motion analysis approach allowing numerical assessment of motor functions. We found, in agreement with the BBB score, that functions requiring low levels of supraspinal control such as plantar stepping improved more in TNR-/- mice. This was not the case for motor tasks demanding precision such as ladder climbing. Morphological analyses revealed no evidence that improved recovery of some functions in the mutant mice were attributable to enhanced tissue sparing or axonal regrowth. Estimates of perisomatic puncta revealed reduced innervation by cholinergic and GABAergic terminals around motoneurons in intact TNR-/- compared with TNR+/+ mice. Relative to nonlesioned animals, spinal cord repair was associated with increase in GABAergic and decrease of glutamatergic puncta in TNR-/- but not in TNR+/+ mice. Our results suggest that TNR restricts functional recovery by limiting posttraumatic remodeling of synapses around motoneuronal cell bodies where TNR is normally expressed in perineuronal nets.
A role for pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) in detrusor hyperreflexia after spinal cord injury (SCI).	Intrathecal administration of the PAC1 receptor antagonist, PACAP6-38 (10 nM), significantly (P < or = 0.05) reduced intermicturition, threshold and micturition pressures in chronic (3-6 weeks) spinal cord injured rats but intravesical administration (100-300 nM) was without effect. Intrathecal PACAP6-38 reduced the number and amplitude of nonvoiding bladder contractions observed after spinal cord injury (SCI). PACAP may contribute to detrusor hyperreflexia induced by SCI and PACAP antagonists may be a novel approach to reduce detrusor hyperreflexia after SCI.
2', 3'-Cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase cells derived from transplanted marrow stromal cells and host tissue contribute to perineurial compartment formation in injured rat spinal cord.	Transdifferentiation of transplanted marrow stromal cells (MSCs) and reactive changes of glial cells in a completely transected rat spinal cord were examined. Marrow stromal cells exhibited 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP) at the plasma membrane and this has allowed their identification after transplantation by immunoelectron microscopy. In the control rats, the lesion site showed activated microglia/neural macrophages and some elongated cells, whose cytoplasm was immunoreactive for CNP. Cells designated as CNP1 and apparently host-derived expressed CXCR4. In experimental rats receiving MSCs transplantation, CNP1 cells were increased noticeably. This was coupled with the occurrence of a different subset of CNP cells whose plasma membrane was CNP-immunoreactive and expressed CXCR4. These cells, designated as CNP2, enclosed both myelinated and unmyelinated neurites thus assuming a spatial configuration resembling that of Schwann cells. A remarkable feature was the extensive ramifications of CNP1 cells with long filopodia processes delineating the CNP2 cells and their associated neurites, forming many perineurial-like compartments. Present results have shown that CNP2 cells considered to be MSCs-derived can transform into cells resembling Schwann cells based on their spatial relation with the regenerating nerve fibers, whereas the CNP1 glial cells participate in formation of perineurial compartments, probably serving as conduits to guide the nerve fiber growth. The chemotactic migration of CNP cells either derived from host tissue or MSCs bearing CXCR4 may be attracted by stromal derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha) produced locally. The coordinated cellular interaction between transplanted MSCs and local glial cells may promote the growth of nerve fibers through the lesion site.
Acute alterations of glutamate, glutamine, GABA, and other amino acids after spinal cord contusion in rats.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to an alteration of energetic metabolism. As a consequence, glutamate, glutamine, aspartate and other important amino acids are altered after damage, leading to important disregulation of the neurochemical pathways. In the present study, we characterized the acute-phase changes in tissue concentration of amino acids involved in neurotransmitter and non-neurotransmitter actions after SCI by contusion in rats. Animals were submitted to either laminectomy or SCI by contusion and sacrificed at 2, 4, 8, and 12 h after lesion, for the analysis of tissue amino acids by HPLC. Results showed that both aspartate and glutamate contents diminished after SCI, while glutamine concentrations raised, however, the sum of molar concentrations of glutamate plus glutamine remained unchanged at all time points. GABA concentrations increased versus control group, while glycine remained unchanged. Finally, citrulline levels increased by effect of SCI, while taurine-increased only 4 h after lesion. Results indicate complex acute-phase changes in amino acids concentrations after SCI, reflecting the different damaging processes unchained after lesion.
Expression of L-type calcium channel alpha(1)-1.2 and alpha(1)-1.3 subunits on rat sacral motoneurons following chronic spinal cord injury.	In the presence of the monoamines serotonin and norepinephrine, motoneurons readily generate large persistent inward currents (PICs). The resulting plateau potentials amplify and sustain motor output. Monoaminergic input to the cord originates in the brainstem and the sharp reduction in monoamine levels that occurs following acute spinal cord injury greatly decreases motoneuron excitability. However, recent studies in the adult sacral cord of the rat have shown that motoneurons reacquire the ability to generate PICs and plateau potentials within 1-2 months following spinal transection. Ca(v)1.3 L-type calcium channels are involved in generating PICs in both healthy and injured animals. Additionally, expression of Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 L-type calcium channels is altered in several pathological conditions. Therefore, in this paper we analyzed the expression of L-type calcium channel alpha(1) subunits within the motoneuron pool following a complete transection of the spinal cord at the level of the sacral vertebra (S)2 segment. The analysis was done both caudally (S4 segment) and rostrally [thoracic vertebra (T)6 segment] from the injury site. The S4 segment was significantly reduced in diameter when compared with control animals, and this reduction was more evident in the white matter. Ca(v)1.2 alpha(1) subunit expression significantly increased (26%) in the motoneuron pool located caudally but not rostrally from the injury site. In contrast, the expression of Ca(v)1.3 alpha(1) subunit remained unchanged in both S4 and T6 segments. The differential expression of the two alpha(1) subunits in spinal injury suggests that Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 channels have different functions in neuronal adaptation following spinal cord injury.
NGF mRNA is expressed in the dorsal root ganglia after spinal cord injury in the rat.	Nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA is expressed in a variety of cell types in the injured spinal cord and its protein implicated in both positive and negative neurological outcomes of cord injury. Here we demonstrate that NGF mRNA is also upregulated in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after spinal cord injury and that the percentage of sensory neurons expressing NGF mRNA correlates with proximity to the lesion epicenter. Our data suggest that, in DRG, NGF gene expression may be upregulated by damage to the central processes of sensory neurons.
Neurocyte apoptosis and expressions of caspase-3 and Fas after spinal cord injury and their implication in rats.	To study the expression of neurocyte apoptosis and the changes of caspase-3 and Fas after spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats, improved Allen's method was used to make model of acute SCI at the level of T9 and T10. The animals were divided into six groups: a control group and 5 injury groups. The segments of injured spinal cords were taken 6, 24, 48 h and 7, 15 days after injury for morphological studies, including HE staining, Hoechst33258 staining and TUNEL labeling. The expression of caspase-3 was detected by immunohistochemical staining and RT-PCR. TUNEL-positive cells began to appear in the compression region 6 h after the injury, mostly located in the gray matter. TUNEL-positive cells were found in both gray and white matter, reaching a peak at the 3rd day. They began to decrease at the 7th day, distributed mostly in the white matter. Fas increased at the 6th h and peaked at the 3rd day. Caspase-3 mRNA increased at the 6th h, peaking 48 h after the trauma, and decreased after 7 days. The protein expression of caspase-3, as revealed by immunohistochemical staining, was similar to TUNEL in time. It is concluded that apoptosis takes place after spinal cord injury, and caspase-3 mRNA and protein expressions were enhanced in the apoptosis. The expression of caspase-3 has a positive correlation with Fas expression.
Axonal remyelination by cord blood stem cells after spinal cord injury.	Human umbilical cord blood stem cells (hUCB) hold great promise for therapeutic repair after spinal cord injury (SCI). Here, we present our preliminary investigations on axonal remyelination of injured spinal cord by transplanted hUCB. Adult male rats were subjected to moderate SCI using NYU Impactor, and hUCB were grafted into the site of injury one week after SCI. Immunohistochemical data provides evidence of differentiation of hUCB into several neural phenotypes including neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. Ultrastructural analysis of axons reveals that hUCB form morphologically normal appearing myelin sheaths around axons in the injured areas of spinal cord. Colocalization studies prove that oligodendrocytes derived from hUCB secrete neurotrophic hormones neurotrophin-3 (NT3) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Cord blood stem cells aid in the synthesis of myelin basic protein (MBP) and proteolipid protein (PLP) of myelin in the injured areas, thereby facilitating the process of remyelination. Elevated levels of mRNA expression were observed for NT3, BDNF, MBP and PLP in hUCB-treated rats as revealed by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis. Recovery of hind limb locomotor function was also significantly enhanced in the hUCB-treated rats based on Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) scores assessed 14 days after transplantation. These findings demonstrate that hUCB, when transplanted into the spinal cord 7 days after weight-drop injury, survive for at least 2 weeks, differentiate into oligodendrocytes and neurons, and enable improved locomotor function. Therefore, hUCB facilitate functional recovery after moderate SCI and may prove to be a useful therapeutic strategy to repair the injured spinal cord.
Tissue-sparing effect of x-ray microplanar beams particularly in the CNS: is a bystander effect involved?	Normal tissues, including the central nervous system, tolerate single exposures to narrow planes of synchrotron-generated x-rays (microplanar beams; microbeams) up to several hundred Gy. The repairs apparently involve the microvasculature and the glial system. We evaluate a hypothesis on the involvement of bystander effects in these repairs.
Reduction of EphA4 receptor expression after spinal cord injury does not induce axonal regeneration or return of tcMMEP response.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes an increase of inhibitory factors that may restrict axonal outgrowth after trauma. During the past decade, the Eph receptors and ephrin ligands have emerged as key repulsive cues known to be involved in neurite outgrowth, synapse formation, and axonal pathfinding during development. Given the non-permissive environment for axonal regeneration after SCI, we questioned whether enhanced-expression of the EphA4 receptor with repulsive activity for axonal outgrowth is potentially responsible for the regenerative failure. To address this possibility, we have examined the expression of EphA4 after SCI in adult rats following a contusion SCI. EphA4 expression studies demonstrated a time-dependent change for EphA4 protein without alterations in beta-actin. EphA4 was downregulated initially and upregulated 7 days after injury. Blockade of EphA4 upregulation with antisense oligonucleotides did not produce an anatomical or physiological response monitored with anterograde tracing studies or transcranial magnetic motor evoked potentials (tcMMEP), respectively. These results demonstrated that upregulation of EphA4 receptors after trauma is not related to axonal regeneration or return of nerve conduction across the injury site.
Expression of hepatocyte growth factor and c-Met after spinal cord injury in rats.	Since hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) plays a pivotal role in the development of the central nervous system and pathological conditions, we examined the long-term changes in the mRNA and protein expression of HGF and its receptor c-Met after spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats. HGF mRNA was significantly increased from 7 days after SCI in the injured segment, and the peak was at 7 days after SCI as assessed by real-time RT-PCR. Importantly, c-met mRNA expression was up-regulated from 1 day after SCI, and reached a peak at 14 days after SCI. Although up-regulation of HGF and c-met mRNA expression in the injured segment gradually decreased, the increased expression level persisted until 56 days after SCI. Consistent with HGF mRNA expression, HGF protein level was significantly increased mainly in the injured region, which persisted until 56 days after SCI. Immunohistochemistry showed that most of GFAP-positive reactive astrocytes expressed HGF and c-Met both on 14 days and 56 days after SCI. Staining with the mitotic indicator, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), revealed that a small number of BrdU-incorporated cells were co-localized with HGF/GFAP-positive or c-Met/GFAP-positive cells both on 14 and 56 days. These data suggest that HGF and c-Met were up-regulated mainly in the reactive astrocytes around the injured region in the subacute to chronic stage of spinal cord injury. Since HGF plays a critical role in neurotrophic activity, activation of the HGF/c-Met signaling system might be involved in the process of post-traumatic regeneration.
Cyclosporin A has a protective effect with induced upregulation of Hsp70 and nNOS on severe spinal cord ischemic injury in rabbits.	The purpose of this study is to ascertain the neuroprotective effect of cyclosporin A on the 25-min surgical ischemia model in the spinal cords of rabbits with neuropathological correlation and histoimmunochemical analyses measuring HSP70 and neuronal NOS (nNOS). New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into four groups (each n = 8): the C2, C7, Cs2, and Cs7 groups. The C2 and C7 groups underwent a 25-min surgical aortic cross-clamp without intervention and were sacrificed respectively on day 2 and on day 7 postoperatively. The Cs2 and Cs7 groups received cyclosporin A (25 mg/kg) intravenously 15 min after the 25-min cross-clamp and were sacrificed respectively on day 2 and day 7 postoperatively. Neurologic functions were evaluated on postoperative days 2 and 7 using the Tarlov scoring system. Then the rabbits were sacrificed for histopathologic observation. HSP 70 and nNOS stains with TUNEL assay were done for the C2 and Cs2 groups. All rabbits survived the experimental procedure. Tarlov's score for the Cs7 group (2.75 +/- 0.89) was significantly higher than that of the C7 group (1.25 +/- 1.39) (p < .05). Tarlov's score of the Cs7 group was also statistically higher on day 7 than on day 2 (p < .05). Strong correlation between the neurological and histological scorings was found. The TUNEL assay showed that the mean number of positive cells in the C2 group was 17.5 +/- 22.6 and in the Cs2 group was 12.5 +/- 11.1, but there was no statistically significant difference between the groups. There was more expression of HSP70 and nNOS in the cyclosporin groups than in the ischemia groups. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that cyclosporin A reduces neurological injury in the rabbit model of 25-min spinal cord ischemia. The neuroprotective effect of cyclosporin A against ischemia seems to be related to overexpressions of nNOS and HSP70.
Temporal changes in the expression of some neurotrophins in spinal cord transected adult rats.	Functional recovery of neurons in the spinal cord after physical injury is essentially abortive in clinical cases. As neurotrophins had been reported to be responsible, at least partially, for the lesion-induced recovery of spinal cord, it is not surprising that they have become the focus of numerous studies. Studies on endogenous neurotrophins, especially the three more important ones, nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) in injured spinal cord might provide some important clues in clinical treatment. Here we investigate the immunohistological expression of the above three factors at lower thoracic levels of the spinal cord as well as changes in the motor functions of the adult rat hindlimbs after cord transection. The injured rats were allowed to survive 3, 7, 14 and 21 days post operation (dpo). Flaccid paralysis was seen at 3 dpo following cord transection, however, hindlimb function showed partial recovery from 7 dpo to 21 dpo. The numbers of NGF, BDNF and NT-3 immunopositive neurons and their optical densities all increased in the lesion-induced cord. The immuno-expression of NGF and BDNF peaked at 7 dpo, while that of NT-3 peaked at 7 dpo and remained so at least up to 14 dpo. These results suggested that neurotrophins might play essential roles in functional recovery of after spinal cord injury, but the time points for the expression of the three factors differed somewhat.
Nitric oxide in the injured spinal cord: synthases cross-talk, oxidative stress and inflammation.	Nitric oxide (NO) is a unique informational molecule involved in a variety of physiological processes in the central nervous system (SNS). It has been demonstrated that it can exert both protective and detrimental effects in several diseases states of the CNS, including spinal cord injury (SCI). The effects of NO on the spinal cord depend on several factors such as: concentration of produced NO, activity of different synthase isoforms, cellular source of production and time of release. Basically, it has been shown that low NO concentrations may play a role in physiologic processes, whereas large amounts of NO may be detrimental by increasing oxidative stress. However, this does not explain all the discrepancies evidenced studying the effects of NO in SCI models. The analysis of the different synthase isoforms, of their temporal profile of activation and cellular source has shed light on this topic. Two post-injury time intervals can be defined with reference to the NO production: immediately after injury and several hours-to-days later. The initial immediate peak of NO production after injury is due to the up-regulation of the neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) in resident spinal cord cells. The late peak is due primarily to the activity of inducible NOS (nNOS) produced by inflammatory infiltrating cells. High NO levels produced by up-regulated nNOS and iNOS are neurotoxic; the down-regulation of nNOS corresponds temporally to the expression of iNOS. On the bases of the evidence, therapeutic approaches should be aimed: (1) to reduce the NO-elicited damage by inhibition of specific synthases according to the temporal profile of activation; (2) by maintaining physiologic amount of NO to keep the induction of iNOS.
Systemic administration of PEP-1-SOD1 fusion protein improves functional recovery by inhibition of neuronal cell death after spinal cord injury.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) produces excessive levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that induce apoptosis of neurons. Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is a key antioxidant enzyme that detoxifies intracellular ROS, thereby protecting cells from oxidative damage. PEP-1 is a peptide carrier capable of delivering full-length native peptides or proteins into cells. In the study described here, we fused a human SOD1 gene with PEP-1 in a bacterial expression vector to produce a genetic in-frame PEP-1-SOD1 fusion protein; we then investigated the neuroprotective effect of the fusion protein after SCI. The expressed and purified PEP-1-SOD1 was efficiently delivered into cultured cells and spinal cords in vivo, and the delivered fusion protein was biologically active. Systemic administration of PEP-1-SOD1 significantly decreased levels of ROS and protein carbonylation and nitration in spinal motor neurons after injury. PEP-1-SOD1 treatment also significantly inhibited mitochondrial cytochrome c release and activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 in spinal cords after injury. Furthermore, PEP-1-SOD1 treatment significantly reduced ROS-induced apoptosis of motor neurons and improved functional recovery after SCI. These results suggest that PEP-1-SOD1 may provide a novel strategy for the therapeutic delivery of antioxidant enzymes that protect neurons from ROS after SCI.
The role of cation-dependent chloride transporters in neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury.	Altered Cl- homeostasis and GABAergic function are associated with nociceptive input hypersensitivity. This study investigated the role of two major intracellular Cl- regulatory proteins, Na+-K+-Cl- cotransporter 1 (NKCC1) and K+-Cl- cotransporter 2 (KCC2), in neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury (SCI).
Pre-differentiated embryonic stem cells promote neuronal regeneration by cross-coupling of BDNF and IL-6 signaling pathways in the host tissue.	The mechanism of embryonic stem (ES) cell therapeutic action remains far from being elucidated. Our recent report has shown that transplantation of ES cells, predifferentiated into neuronal progenitors, prevented appearance of chronic pain behaviors in mice after experimentally induced spinal cord injury. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that this beneficial effect is mediated by antiapoptotic and regenerative signaling pathways activated in the host tissue by transplanted ES cells. Spinal cord injury was induced by unilateral microinjections of quisqualic acid at spinal levels T12-L2. At 1 week after injury, the pre-differentiated towards neuronal phenotype ES cells were transplanted into the site of injury. Here we show that transplantation of pre-differentiated ES cells activate both brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) signaling pathways in the host tissue, leading to activation of cAMP/PKA, phosporylation of cofilin and synapsin I, and promoting regenerative growth and neuronal survival.
Reduced vascular endothelial growth factor expression in contusive spinal cord injury.	Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is being investigated as a potential interventional therapy for spinal cord injury (SCI). In the current study, we examined SCI-induced changes in VEGF protein levels using Western blot analysis around the epicenter of injury. Our results indicate a significant decrease in the levels of VEGF(165) and other VEGF isoforms at the lesion epicenter 1 day after injury, which was maintained up to 1 month after injury. We also examined if robust VEGF(165) decrease in injured spinal cords affects neuronal survival, given that a number of reported studies show neuroprotective effect of this VEGF isoform. However, exogenously administered VEGF(165) at the time of injury did not affect the number of sparred neurons. In contrast, exogenous administration of VEGF antibody that inhibits actions of not only VEGF(165) but also of several other VEGF isoforms, significantly decreased number of sparred neurons after SCI. Together these results indicate a general reduction of VEGF isoforms following SCI and that isoforms other than VEGF(165) (e.g., VEGF(121) and/or VEGF(189)) provide neuroprotection, suggesting that VEGF(165) isoform is likely involved in other pathophysiological process after SCI.
Swim training initiated acutely after spinal cord injury is ineffective and induces extravasation in and around the epicenter.	Activity-based rehabilitation is a promising strategy for improving functional recovery following spinal cord injury (SCI). While results from both clinical and animal studies have shown that a variety of approaches can be effective, debate still exists regarding the optimal post-injury period to apply rehabilitation. We recently demonstrated that rats with moderately severe thoracic contusive SCI can be re-trained to swim when training is initiated 2 weeks after injury and that swim training had no effect on the recovery of overground locomotion. We concluded that swim training is a task-specific model of post-SCI activity-based rehabilitation. In the present study, we ask if re-training initiated acutely is more or less effective than when initiated at 2 weeks post-injury. Using the Louisville Swim Scale, an 18-point swimming assessment, supplemented by kinematic assessment of hindlimb movement during swimming, we report that acute re-training is less effective than training initiated at 2 weeks. Using the bioluminescent protein luciferase as a blood-borne macromolecular marker, we also show a significant increase in extravasation in and around the site of SCI following only 8 min of swimming at 3 days post-injury. Taken together, these results suggest that acute re-training in a rat model of SCI may compromise rehabilitation efforts via mechanisms that may involve one or more secondary injury cascades, including acute spinal microvascular dysfunction.
Temporal and spatial dynamics of peroxynitrite-induced oxidative damage after spinal cord contusion injury.	The reactive nitrogen species peroxynitrite (PN) has been suggested to be an important mediator of the secondary oxidative damage that occurs following acute spinal cord injury (SCI). The PN decomposition products nitrogen dioxide (*NO(2)), hydroxyl radical (*OH), and carbonate radical (*CO(3)) are highly reactive with cellular lipids and proteins. In this immunohistochemical study, we examined the temporal (3, 24, and 72 h, and 1 and 2 weeks) and spatial relationships of PN-mediated oxidative damage in the contusion-injured rat thoracic spinal cord (IH device, 200 kdyn, T10) using 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT), a marker for protein nitration by PN-derived *NO(2) and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), an indicator of lipid peroxidation (LP) initiated by any of the PN radicals. Minimal 3-NT or 4-HNE immunostaining was seen in sham, non-injured spinal cords. In contrast, both markers showed a substantial increase at 3 h post-injury at the epicenter, that extended throughout the gray matter and into the surrounding white matter. At 24 and 72 h, the oxidative damage expanded circumferentially to involve all but a small rim of white matter tissue at the injury site, and longitudinally as much as 6-9 mm in the rostral and caudal directions. The staining was observed in neuronal soma, axons, and microvessels. At all time points except 3 h, there was no significant difference in the mean rostral or caudal extent of 3-NT and 4-HNE staining. By 1, and more so at 2 weeks, the longitudinal extent of the oxidative damage staining was greatly decreased. The spatial and temporal overlap of 3-NT and 4-HNE staining supports the concept that PN is involved in both damage produced by lipid peroxidation and protein nitration, and that antioxidant agents that target PN or PN-derived radicals should be effective neuroprotectants for acute SCI if administered during the first post-injury hours.
Disuse atrophy of human skeletal muscle: cell signaling and potential interventions.	In response to atrophic stimuli, physical alterations include decreases in fiber diameter and contractile protein content. Despite the fact that these phenotypical alterations have been well characterized, the signaling pathways that mediate these adaptations are still under investigation. There have been significant advances in the past few years delineating signal transduction pathways that regulate protein turnover. In the process of evaluating the effect of various atrophy-inducing stimuli on signal transduction pathways in skeletal muscle, it is apparent that differences do exist concerning both transcriptional and translational adaptations. To this end, it is hypothesized that the processes responsible for invoking skeletal muscle atrophy are unique, despite similar upstream signals and downstream phenotypical adaptations. If this is the case, countermeasures to attenuate atrophy may be more effective if they are designed to accommodate molecular alterations specific to the atrophic stimulus. The aim of this review was to characterize the recent work in humans elucidating the molecular basis of skeletal muscle atrophy in response to immobilization, unloading, spinal cord injury, and detraining to highlight the possibility that all skeletal muscle atrophy is not the same. With an increased understanding of the unique signaling pathways that regulate skeletal muscle protein turnover in the face of various atrophy models, it is possible to exploit these pathways to develop countermeasures to prevent or attenuate atrophy. Eugenics, gene therapy, pharmacology, nutritional, and physical countermeasures are discussed concerning their potential to treat or mitigate atrophy.
Lnk deletion reinforces the function of bone marrow progenitors in promoting neovascularization and astrogliosis following spinal cord injury.	Lnk is an intracellular adaptor protein reported as a negative regulator of proliferation in c-Kit positive, Sca-1 positive, lineage marker-negative (KSL) bone marrow cells. The KSL fraction in mouse bone marrow is believed to represent a population of hematopoietic and endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). We report here that, in vitro, Lnk(-/-) KSL cells form more EPC colonies than Lnk(+/+) KSL cells and show higher expression levels of endothelial marker genes, including CD105, CD144, Tie-1, and Tie2, than their wild-type counterparts. In vivo, the administration of Lnk(+/+) KSL cells to a mouse spinal cord injury model promoted angiogenesis, astrogliosis, axon growth, and functional recovery following injury, with Lnk(-/-) KSL being significantly more effective in inducing and promoting these regenerative events. At day 3 following injury, large vessels could be observed in spinal cords treated with KSL cells, and reactive astrocytes were found to have migrated along these large vessels. We could further show that the enhancement of astrogliosis appears to be caused in conjunction with the acceleration of angiogenesis. These findings suggest that Lnk deletion reinforces the commitment of KSL cells to EPCs, promoting subsequent repair of injured spinal cord through the acceleration of angiogenesis and astrogliosis.
Protective effects of tadalafil on experimental spinal cord injury in rats.	Tadalafil is a selective inhibitor of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5). Nitric oxide (NO) functions as a retrograde neurotransmitter in the spinal cord, and postsynaptic structures respond to NO by producing cGMP. The concentrations of cGMP in the spinal cord are controlled by the actions of PDE. The aim of the study was to evaluate and compare the effects of the use of both methylprednisolone and tadalafil on serum and tissue concentrations of NO, malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and tissue glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity in rats with spinal cord injury (SCI). SCI was induced in Wistar albino rats by dropping a 10 g rod from a 5.0 cm height at T8-10. The 28 rats were randomly divided into four equal groups: tadalafil, methylprednisolone, non-treatment and sham groups. Rats were neurologically tested at 24 hours after trauma. At the end of the experiment, blood samples were collected and spinal cord tissue samples were harvested for biochemical evaluation. The tissue level of NO was increased in the tadalafil group compared with the non-treatment and methylprednisolone groups (p<0.05). The tissue levels of SOD and GSH-Px did not differ between the groups. Serum levels of NO were higher in the tadalafil group than in the non-treatment group (p<0.05). The increase in serum SOD levels was greater in the tadalafil group than the methylprednisolone group. Serum MDA levels in the tadalafil and methylprednisolone groups tended to be lower than in the non-treatment group (p>0.05). Tissue MDA levels in the tadalafil and methylprednisolone groups tended to be lower than in the non-treatment group and sham groups (p>0.05). Although there was no difference in neurological outcome scores between the tadalafil, methylprednisolone and non-treatment groups (p>0.05), the animals in the tadalafil and methylprednisolone groups tended to have better scores than the non-treatment group. Thus, tadalafil appears to be beneficial in reducing the effects of injury to the spinal cord by increasing tissue levels of NO and serum activity of SOD.
Temporal-spatial expression of presenilin 1 and the production of amyloid-beta after acute spinal cord injury in adult rat.	Regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP) is one of the signaling pathways mediating information transfer from the extracellular to the intracellular domain. gamma-Secretase is an aspartyl protease of the RIP that cleaves the intramembrane region of type I integral membrane proteins, such as amyloid precursor protein (APP). Presenilin 1 (PS1) is the catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase and PS1 mutations cause Alzheimer's disease, spastic paraplegia and spinal cord atrophy. The biological function of PS1 in the spinal cord has not been fully elucidated. Thus, to clarify the involvement of RIP in spinal cord injury, we examined the expression of PS1, APP and amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) following rat spinal cord hemisection. Western blot analysis showed that PS1, APP and Abeta levels increased 1 day after spinal cord hemisection. Immunohistochemistry showed an increased number of PS1 immunopositive cells about 1mm from the lesion site. PS1, APP and Abeta double staining with cell-type specific markers showed colocalization of PS1 with axons in the white matter of the lesioned side. These findings suggest that RIP signaling occurs following rat spinal cord injury. In the future, the control of RIP may offer a new strategy for the treatment of spinal cord injury.
Expression of galectin-1 in immune cells and glial cells after spinal cord injury.	Galectin-1, a member of a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins, is differentially expressed by various tissues and performs a wide range of biological functions. Galectin-1 has been shown to mediate inflammation and to be involved in axonal regeneration in the oxidized form and in axonal degeneration in the reduced form; however, its involvement in injury and the repair processes after spinal cord injury have not been studied. Therefore, we studied galectin-1 expression in injured spinal cords. Immunostaining analysis of galectin-1 in injured spinal cords revealed that galectin-1-expressing cells assembled around the lesion site. Galectin-1 was intensively expressed by neutrophils 1 day, by microglia/macrophages 3 days, and by astrocytes 7 days after spinal cord injury. These results suggest that galectin-1 may be associated with the pathogenesis of spinal cord injury.
Beta-catenin signaling increases in proliferating NG2+ progenitors and astrocytes during post-traumatic gliogenesis in the adult brain.	Wnt/beta-catenin signaling can influence the proliferation and differentiation of progenitor populations in the hippocampus and subventricular zone, known germinal centers in the adult mouse brain. It is not known whether beta-catenin signaling occurs in quiescent glial progenitors in cortex or spinal cord, nor is it known whether beta-catenin is involved in the activation of glial progenitor populations after injury. Using a beta-catenin reporter mouse (BATGAL mouse), we show that beta-catenin signaling occurs in NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan+ (NG2) progenitors in the cortex, in subcallosal zone (SCZ) progenitors, and in subependymal cells surrounding the central canal. Interestingly, cells with beta-catenin signaling increased in the cortex and SCZ following traumatic brain injury (TBI) but did not following spinal cord injury. Initially after TBI, beta-catenin signaling was predominantly increased in a subset of NG2+ progenitors in the cortex. One week following injury, the majority of beta-catenin signaling appeared in reactive astrocytes but not oligodendrocytes. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) paradigms and Ki-67 staining showed that the increase in beta-catenin signaling occurred in newly born cells and was sustained after cell division. Dividing cells with beta-catenin signaling were initially NG2+; however, by four days after a single injection of BrdU, they were predominantly astrocytes. Infusing animals with the mitotic inhibitor cytosine arabinoside prevented the increase of beta-catenin signaling in the cortex, confirming that the majority of beta-catenin signaling after TBI occurs in newly born cells. These data argue for manipulating the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway after TBI as a way to modify post-traumatic gliogenesis.
Robust upregulation of serotonin 2A receptors after chronic spinal transection of rats: an immunohistochemical study.	It is well known that spinal motoneurons below a spinal transection become supersensitive to a systemic administration of serotonin (5-HT) precursors, such as 5-hydroxytryptophan. This supersensitivity has been implicated in both the process of functional recovery following chronic lesions, and also in the development of symptoms such as hyperreflexia and spasticity. However, the mechanisms of this denervation supersensitivity are still largely unknown. In this study we have investigated the changes in 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity following chronic spinal transections at the level of the sacrocaudal spinal cord. The results show that in the spinalized rats the immunoreactivity of 5-HT2A receptors below the lesion is dramatically increased in the motoneuron soma and its proximal dendritic territory, most likely also in their distal dendritic territory, to a level 3-5-fold higher than that of sham-operated rats. We also found a small number of intraspinal 5-HT neurons and clusters of 5-HT fibers and their varicosities in the spinal cord caudal to the lesion, which may provide an intrinsic source of 5-HT to act upon the upregulated 5-HT2A receptors. These results indicate that the upregulation of 5-HT2A receptors at least partly underlies the 5-HT denervation supersensitivity of spinal motoneurons after a complete spinal transection.
Quantitative analysis of cellular inflammation after traumatic spinal cord injury: evidence for a multiphasic inflammatory response in the acute to chronic environment.	Traumatic injury to the central nervous system results in the disruption of the blood brain/spinal barrier, followed by the invasion of cells and other components of the immune system that can aggravate injury and affect subsequent repair and regeneration. Although studies of chronic neuroinflammation in the injured spinal cord of animals are clinically relevant to most patients living with traumatic injury to the brain or spinal cord, very little is known about chronic neuroinflammation, though several studies have tested the role of neuroinflammation in the acute period after injury. The present study characterizes a novel cell preparation method that assesses, quickly and effectively, the changes in the principal immune cell types by flow cytometry in the injured spinal cord, daily for the first 10 days and periodically up to 180 days after spinal cord injury. These data quantitatively demonstrate a novel time-dependent multiphasic response of cellular inflammation in the spinal cord after spinal cord injury and are verified by quantitative stereology of immunolabelled spinal cord sections at selected time points. The early phase of cellular inflammation is comprised principally of neutrophils (peaking 1 day post-injury), macrophages/microglia (peaking 7 days post-injury) and T cells (peaking 9 days post-injury). The late phase of cellular inflammation was detected after 14 days post-injury, peaked after 60 days post-injury and remained detectable throughout 180 days post-injury for all three cell types. Furthermore, the late phase of cellular inflammation (14-180 days post-injury) did not coincide with either further improvements, or new decrements, in open-field locomotor function after spinal cord injury. However, blockade of chemoattractant C5a-mediated inflammation after 14 days post-injury reduced locomotor recovery and myelination in the injured spinal cord, suggesting that the late inflammatory response serves a reparative function. Together, these data provide new insight into cellular inflammation of spinal cord injury and identify a surprising and extended multiphasic response of cellular inflammation. Understanding the role of this multiphasic response in the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury could be critical for the design and implementation of rational therapeutic treatment strategies, including both cell-based and pharmacological interventions.
Involvement of spinal phosphorylation cascade of Tyr1472-NR2B, Thr286-CaMKII, and Ser831-GluR1 in neuropathic pain.	Previously we demonstrated that phosphorylation of NR2B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor at Tyr1472 is increased in a neuropathic-pain model and that this phosphorylation is required for the maintenance of neuropathic pain by L5-spinal nerve transection. We obtained these results by using a selective NR2B antagonist and mice deficient in Fyn, which is an Src-family tyrosine protein kinase. However, how Tyr1472 phosphorylation of NR2B is involved in the maintenance of neuropathic pain was unclear. Here, we demonstrated that neuropathic pain was markedly attenuated in the spared nerve injury model of mice with a knock-in mutation of the Tyr1472 site to phenylalanine of NR2B (Y1472F-KI). While phosphorylation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) at its Thr286 and that of the GluR1 subunit of the AMPA receptor at its Ser831 was enhanced in the spinal dorsal horn after spared nerve injury in wild-type mice, such phosphorylation was markedly impaired in Y1472F-KI mice. Inhibition of CaMKII by intrathecal injection of KN93, an inhibitor of CaMKII, reduced mechanical allodynia and phosphorylation of CaMKII at its Thr286 and that of GluR1 at its Ser831 in the spinal cord 7 days after spared nerve injury. These results demonstrate that the phosphorylation of CaMKII and GluR1 occurs downstream of the Tyr1472 phosphorylation of NR2B subunits in the spinal cord and give the first suggestion that activation of CaMKII and GluR1-AMPA receptors may be involved in mechanical allodynia caused by peripheral nerve injury.
Multipotent adult progenitor cells prevent macrophage-mediated axonal dieback and promote regrowth after spinal cord injury.	Macrophage-mediated axonal dieback presents an additional challenge to regenerating axons after spinal cord injury. Adult adherent stem cells are known to have immunomodulatory capabilities, but their potential to ameliorate this detrimental inflammation-related process has not been investigated. Using an in vitro model of axonal dieback as well as an adult rat dorsal column crush model of spinal cord injury, we found that multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs) can affect both macrophages and dystrophic neurons simultaneously. MAPCs significantly decrease MMP-9 (matrix metalloproteinase-9) release from macrophages, effectively preventing induction of axonal dieback. MAPCs also induce a shift in macrophages from an M1, or "classically activated" proinflammatory state, to an M2, or "alternatively activated" antiinflammatory state. In addition to these effects on macrophages, MAPCs promote sensory neurite outgrowth, induce sprouting, and further enable axons to overcome the negative effects of macrophages as well as inhibitory proteoglycans in their environment by increasing their intrinsic growth capacity. Our results demonstrate that MAPCs have therapeutic benefits after spinal cord injury and provide specific evidence that adult stem cells exert positive immunomodulatory and neurotrophic influences.
Promoting survival, migration, and integration of transplanted Schwann cells by over-expressing polysialic acid.	The poor survival and migration of transplanted Schwann cells (SCs) are major drawbacks for their clinical application in cell therapy for neurotrauma. To overcome such drawbacks we genetically modified SCs to over-express polysialic acid (PSA) by lentiviral delivery of polysialyltransferase (PST) to study whether over-expression of PSA could enhance their survival, migration, and integration when transplanted into the spinal cord. It was found that more PSA-expressing SCs (PST/SCs) survived than GFP-expressing SCs (GFP/SCs) after transplantation, although cell loss was still quite significant. PSA expression did not enhance the motility of transplanted SCs in uninjured spinal cord. However, in a spinal cord crush injury model PST/SCs transplanted caudal to the lesion showed that increased number of PST/SCs migrated to the injury site compared with that of GFP/SCs. Induced expression of PSA in spinal cord can further facilitate the infiltration of PST/SCs into the lesion site. PST/SCs were also shown to intermingle well with host spinal cells while GFP/SCs formed boundaries with host tissue. This was confirmed by an in vitro confrontation assay showing that more PST/SCs crossed over to astrocyte territory than GFP/SCs. Furthermore, PST/SCs induced much less expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan in the surrounding tissues than GFP/SCs, indicating that expression of PSA on SCs do not cause significant stress response of astrocytes. These results demonstrate that expression of PSA on SCs significantly changes their biological properties and makes them more feasible for neural repair after neurotrauma.
Amniotic fluid levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein in fetal rats with retinoic acid induced myelomeningocele: a potential marker for spinal cord injury.	The objective of this study was to determine whether amniotic fluid levels of glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP) would reflect myelomeningocele-related neurodegeneration in the rat model of retinoic acid-induced myelomeningocele, which is a model that is very similar to human myelomeningocele and develops the entire spectrum of disease severity including features of the Chiari II malformation.
Long-term changes in expressions of spinal glutamate transporters after spinal cord injury.	Glutamate is a major excitatory transmitter in the central nervous system that may produce cellular injury when its concentration is abnormally increased in the synaptic cleft. Glial glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT-1, which are responsible for clearing synaptic glutamate into glial cells, play an important role in the regulation of the glutamate concentration in the synaptic cleft. However, there has been no report on long-term changes in the levels of glutamate transporters following spinal cord injury. Spinal cord injury (SCI) was induced at T12 by a New York University (NYU) impactor. Segments of the spinal cord at T9-10, L1-2, L4-5 and at the epicenter were removed after SCI, and Western blots for GLAST, GLT-1 and EAAC1 were performed. GLAST and GLT-1 were significantly decreased in the epicenter from 1day up to 8weeks after SCI. GLT-1 was significantly decreased in the spinal segments rostral to the injury site, and GLAST expression was significantly increased in the L4-5 region of the spinal cord for 8weeks. Because strategies to modulate the regulation of glutamate transporters may be applied, the present data serve as a reference for further research, although the long-term roles of glutamate transporters in pathological processes caused by SCI are not clear.
Astrocytes from the contused spinal cord inhibit oligodendrocyte differentiation of adult oligodendrocyte precursor cells by increasing the expression of bone morphogenetic proteins.	Promotion of remyelination is an important therapeutic strategy to facilitate functional recovery after traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). Transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) or oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) has been used to enhance remyelination after SCI. However, the microenvironment in the injured spinal cord is inhibitory for oligodendrocyte (OL) differentiation of NSCs or OPCs. Identifying the signaling pathways that inhibit OL differentiation in the injured spinal cord could lead to new therapeutic strategies to enhance remyelination and functional recovery after SCI. In the present study, we show that reactive astrocytes from the injured rat spinal cord or their conditioned media inhibit OL differentiation of adult OPCs with concurrent promotion of astrocyte differentiation. The expression of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) is dramatically increased in the reactive astrocytes and their conditioned media. Importantly, blocking BMP activity by BMP receptor antagonist, noggin, reverse the effects of active astrocytes on OPC differentiation by increasing the differentiation of OL from OPCs while decreasing the generation of astrocytes. These data indicate that the upregulated bone morphogenetic proteins in the reactive astrocytes are major factors to inhibit OL differentiation of OPCs and to promote its astrocyte differentiation. These data suggest that manipulation of BMP signaling in the endogenous or grafted NSCs or OPCs may be a useful therapeutic strategy to increase their OL differentiation and remyelination and enhance functional recovery after SCI.
Attenuating the endoplasmic reticulum stress response improves functional recovery after spinal cord injury.	Activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) is involved in the pathogenesis of numerous CNS myelin abnormalities; yet, its direct role in traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI)-induced demyelination is not known. The UPR is an evolutionarily conserved cell defense mechanism initiated to restore endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis in response to various cellular stresses including infection, trauma, and oxidative damage. However, if uncompensated, the UPR triggers apoptotic cell death. We demonstrate that the three signaling branches of UPR including the PERK, ATF6, and IRE1 are rapidly initiated in a mouse model of contusive SCI specifically at the injury epicenter. Immunohistochemical analyses of the various UPR markers revealed that in neurons, the UPR appeared at 6 and 24-h post-SCI. In contrast, in oligodendrocytes and astroglia, UPR persisted at least for up to 3 days post-SCI. The UPR-associated proapoptotic transcriptional regulator CHOP was among the UPR markers upregulated in neurons and oligodendrocytes, but not in astrocytes, of traumatized mouse spinal cords. To directly analyze its role in SCI, WT and CHOP null mice received a moderate T9 contusive injury. Deletion of CHOP led to an overall attenuation of the UPR after contusive SCI. Furthermore, analyses of hindlimb locomotion demonstrated a significant functional recovery that correlated with an increase in white-matter sparing, transcript levels of myelin basic protein, and Claudin 11 and decreased oligodendrocyte apoptosis in CHOP null mice in contrast to WT animals. Thus, our study provides evidence that the UPR contributes to oligodendrocyte loss after traumatic SCI.
Regeneration of spinal cord with cell and gene therapy.	Transplantation of fetal spinal cord cells (FSCC) can promote regeneration of injured spinal cord, while Schwann cells (SC) and some growth factors have a similar effect. However, the synergistic effects and optimal combination of these modalities have not yet been evaluated. In the current study, the efficiency of cell therapy of FSCC and/or SC, with/without growth factors (nerve growth factor [NGF] and brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]) was examined, with the aim of establishing an optimized protocol for spinal cord injury.
Synuclein accumulation is associated with cell-specific neuronal death after spinal cord injury.	Spinal cord injury axotomizes neurons and induces many of them to die, whereas others survive. Therefore, it is important to identify factors that lead to neuronal death after injury as a first step toward developing better strategies for increasing neuronal survival and functional recovery. However, the intrinsic molecular pathways that govern whether an injured neuron lives or dies remain surprisingly unclear. To address this question, we took advantage of the large size of giant reticulospinal (RS) neurons in the brain of the lamprey, Petromyzon marinus. We report that axotomy of giant RS neurons induces a select subset of them to accumulate high levels of synuclein, a synaptic vesicle-associated protein whose abnormal accumulation is linked to Parkinson's disease. Injury-induced synuclein accumulation occurred only in neurons that were classified as "poor survivors" by both histological and Fluoro-Jade C staining. In contrast, post-injury synuclein immunofluorescence remained at control levels in neurons that were identified as "good survivors." Synuclein accumulation appeared in the form of aggregated intracellular inclusions. Cells that accumulated synuclein also exhibited more ubiquitin-containing inclusions, similar to what occurs during disease states. When synuclein levels and cell vitality were measured in the same neurons, it became clear that synuclein accumulation preceded and strongly correlated with subsequent neuronal death. Thus, synuclein accumulation is identified as a marker and potential risk factor for forthcoming neuronal death after axotomy, expanding its implications beyond the neurodegenerative diseases.
Silencing of miR20a is crucial for Ngn1-mediated neuroprotection in injured spinal cord.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) compose a relatively new discipline in biomedical research, and many physiological processes in disease have been associated with changes in miRNA expression. Several studies report that miRNAs participate in biological processes such as the control of secondary injury in several disease models. Recently, we identified novel miRNAs that were abnormally up-regulated in a traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). In the current study, we focused on miR20a, which causes continuing motor neuron degeneration when overexpressed in SCI lesions. Blocking miR20a in SCI animals led to neural cell survival and eventual neurogenesis with rescued expression of the key target gene, neurogenin 1 (Ngn1). Infusion of siNgn1 resulted in functional deficit in the hindlimbs caused by aggressive secondary injury and actively enhanced the inflammation involved in secondary injury progression. The events involving miR20a underlie motor neuron and myelin destruction and pathophysiology and ultimately block regeneration in injured spinal cords. Inhibition of miR20a expression effectively induced definitive motor neuron survival and neurogenesis, and SCI animals showed improved functional deficit. In this study, we showed that abnormal expression of miR20a induces secondary injury, which suggests that miR20a could be a potential target for therapeutic intervention following SCI.
Spatiotemporal alteration of phospholipids and prostaglandins in a rat model of spinal cord injury.	We determined quantitative and qualitative alterations in lipids during the occurrence and progression of spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats to identify potential clinical indicators of SCI pathology. Imaging mass spectrometry (IMS) was used to visualize twelve molecular species of phosphatidylcholine (PC) on thin slices of spinal cord with SCI. In addition, twelve species of phospholipids and five species of prostaglandins (PGs) were quantified by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) of lipid extracts from control/injured spinal cords. Unique distribution patterns were observed for phospholipids with different fatty acid compositions, and distinct dynamic changes were seen in both their amounts and their distributions in tissue as tissue damage resulting from SCI progressed. In particular, PCs containing docosahexaenoic acid localized to the large nucleus in the anterior horn region at one day post-SCI and rapidly decreased thereafter. In contrast, PCs containing arachidonic acid (AA-PCs) were normally found in the posterior horn region and were intensely and temporarily elevated one week after SCI. Lysophosphatidylcholines (LPCs) also increased at the same SCI stage and in regions with elevated AA-PCs, indicating the release of AA and the production of PGs. Moreover, LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis of lipid extracts from the spinal cord tissue at the impact site demonstrated a peak in PGE2 that reflected the elevation/reduction pattern of AA-PCs and LPC. Although further investigation is required, we suggest that invasive immune cells that penetrated from the impaired blood-brain barrier at 1-2 weeks post-SCI may have produced LPCs, released AA from AA-PCs, and produced PGs in SCI tissue at sites enriched in AA-PCs/LPC.
p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor reduces neurocan production in cultured spinal cord astrocytes.	Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are formed in scar tissue after a spinal cord injury and inhibit axon regrowth. The production of neurocan, one of these chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, in cultured spinal cord astrocytes increased after the addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) in a dose-dependent manner (2-200 ng/ml). In astrocytes stimulated by 20 ng/ml of EGF, neurocan production was inhibited after the addition of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor (SB203580: 3-10 M) in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that the activation of p38 MAPK is one of the mechanisms of neurocan production in EGF-stimulated astrocytes. The p38 MAPK inhibitor may reduce neurocan production and accelerate axonal regrowth after a spinal cord injury.
Involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and sonic hedgehog in the spinal cord plasticity after neurotoxic partial removal of lumbar motoneurons.	Adult mammals could spontaneously achieve a partial sensory-motor recovery after spinal cord injury, by mechanisms including synaptic plasticity. We previously showed that this recovery is associated to the expression of synapsin-I, and that sonic hedgehog and Notch-1 could be also involved in plasticity. The role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glutamate receptors in regulating synaptic efficacy has been explored in the last decade but, although these mechanisms are now well-defined in the brain, the molecular mechanisms underlying the so called "spinal learning" are still less clear. Here, we measured the expression levels of choline acetyltransferase, synapsin-I, sonic hedgehog, Notch-1, glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2, GluR4, NMDAR1) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, in a motoneuron-depleted mouse spinal lesion model obtained by intramuscular injection of cholera toxin-B saporin. The lesion caused the down-regulation of the majority of analysed proteins. Moreover, we found that in lesioned but not in control spinal tissue, synapsin-I expression is associated to that of both brain-derived neurotrophic factor and sonic hedgehog, whereas GluR2 expression is linked to that of Shh. These results suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and sonic hedgehog could collaborate in modulating synaptic plasticity after the removal of motoneurons, by a mechanism involving both pre- and post-synaptic processes. Interestingly, the involvement of sonic hedgehog showed here is novel, and offers new routes to address spinal cord plasticity and repair.
Acute traumatic spinal cord injury induces glial activation in the cynomolgus macaque (Macaca fascicularis).	Traumatic spinal cord injury leads to direct myelin and axonal damage and leads to the recruitment of inflammatory cells to site of injury. Although rodent models have provided the greatest insight into the genesis of traumatic spinal cord injury (TSCI), recent studies have attempted to develop an appropriate non-human primate model.
Chondroitinase and growth factors enhance activation and oligodendrocyte differentiation of endogenous neural precursor cells after spinal cord injury.	The adult spinal cord harbours a population of multipotent neural precursor cells (NPCs) with the ability to replace oligodendrocytes. However, despite this capacity, proliferation and endogenous remyelination is severely limited after spinal cord injury (SCI). In the post-traumatic microenvironment following SCI, endogenous spinal NPCs mainly differentiate into astrocytes which could contribute to astrogliosis that exacerbate the outcomes of SCI. These findings emphasize a key role for the post-SCI niche in modulating the behaviour of spinal NPCs after SCI. We recently reported that chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) in the glial scar restrict the outcomes of NPC transplantation in SCI by reducing the survival, migration and integration of engrafted NPCs within the injured spinal cord. These inhibitory effects were attenuated by administration of chondroitinase (ChABC) prior to NPC transplantation. Here, in a rat model of compressive SCI, we show that perturbing CSPGs by ChABC in combination with sustained infusion of growth factors (EGF, bFGF and PDGF-AA) optimize the activation and oligodendroglial differentiation of spinal NPCs after injury. Four days following SCI, we intrathecally delivered ChABC and/or GFs for seven days. We performed BrdU incorporation to label proliferating cells during the treatment period after SCI. This strategy increased the proliferation of spinal NPCs, reduced the generation of new astrocytes and promoted their differentiation along an oligodendroglial lineage, a prerequisite for remyelination. Furthermore, ChABC and GF treatments enhanced the response of non-neural cells by increasing the generation of new vascular endothelial cells and decreasing the number of proliferating macrophages/microglia after SCI. In conclusions, our data strongly suggest that optimization of the behaviour of endogenous spinal NPCs after SCI is critical not only to promote endogenous oligodendrocyte replacement, but also to reverse the otherwise detrimental effects of their activation into astrocytes which could negatively influence the repair process after SCI.
From research of BDNF in traumatic brain and spinal cord injury to translational medicine]	Brain and spinal cord injury (BSI), a common neurological disease, is increasing. The functional recovery of BSI is far from satisfactory despite great improvement in clinical treatment of BSI. Research into injury of neurons and neurite as well as the microenvironment that regulate BSI conditions should be able to enable us to find a pivotal position among the complex molecular system for effective clinic practice. Further effort needs to pay attention to translational research. In this paper, we propose a crucial molecule, known as brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), for translational research in relation to BSI because of its significant role in BSI and its changes with various interventions such as acupuncture, hormone, herb and cell agents. Moreover, the establishment of BDNF transgenic release would provide a practical approach for treating BSI with BDNF. It is important that research questions derive from bedsides (what do doctors and patients need?). Answers identified by laboratory research should be put into practice (back to bedsides). This consists of B-to-B double circles. As a key concept of translational medicine, it will guide our direction towards optimal development of medical research and medical practice.
Implication of BDNF expression in transected spinal cord of rats]	To explore the change of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and its relationship with the neurological behavior after spinal cord transection (SCT) in rats.
Effects of electroacupuncture of "governor vessel" acupoints on changes of BDNF in the cortical motor area of mice with spinal cord transection]	To investigate effects of electroacupuncture of "Governor Vessel" acupoints on changes of brain erived neurotrophic facotr (BDNF) in the cortex area of mice with spinal cord transection (SCT).
Experiment study on the treatment of SCI based on HSV carried BDNF transgene technique]	To explore the effect of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) transgenic treatment in rats following spinal cord injury (SCI).
Neuroprotective effects of hypothermia after spinal cord injury in rats: comparative study between epidural hypothermia and systemic hypothermia.	An experimental comparative study on moderate epidural hypothermia (MEH) versus moderate systemic hypothermia (MSH) after spinal cord injury (SCI).
Increased expression of nitric oxide synthase interacting protein (NOSIP) following traumatic spinal cord injury in rats.	Previous studies indicated that nitric oxide (NO) is involved in secondary damage of spinal cord injury (SCI), which worsens the primary physical injury to the central nervous systems. Recently, nitric oxide synthase interacting protein (NOSIP) has been identified to interact with neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase by inhibiting the NO production. However, its expression and function after a central nervous system injury remains unclear. In this study, we examined the expression and cellular localization of NOSIP in the spinal cord of an adult rat. Western blot analysis indicated that NOSIP protein levels increased at day1 post-injury and peaked at day 14. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that NOSIP was primarily expressed in neurons and glial cells in the intact spinal cord. Interestingly, this study also showed that the expression of NOSIP significantly increased in astrocytes after injury. Furthermore, injury-induced expression of NOSIP was co-expressed with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive astrocytes after injury. We also showed the NOSIP was co-localized with nNOS in gray matter and white matter after SCI. All these data taken together suggested that NOSIP may play an important roles in astrogliogenesis after a spinal cord injury.
Injury-induced accumulation of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the rostral part of the injured rat spinal cord.	The spinal cord of a 7-week-old female Wistar rat was hemi-transected at thoracic position 10 with a razor blade, and changes in glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protein and mRNA expression levels in the spinal cord were examined. GDNF protein and mRNA expression levels were evaluated by enzyme immunoassay and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Although GDNF is distributed in the healthy spinal cord from 150 to 400 pg/g tissue in a regionally dependent manner, hemi-transection (left side) of the spinal cord caused a rapid increase in GDNF content in the ipsilateral rostral but not in the caudal part of the spinal cord. On the other hand, injury-induced GDNF mRNA was distributed limitedly in both rostral and caudal stumps. These observations suggest the possibility that increased GDNF in the rostral  part is responsible for the accumulation of GDNF that may be constitutively transported from the rostral to caudal side within the spinal cord. Although such local increase of endogenous GDNF protein may not be sufficient for nerve regeneration and locomotor improvement, it may play a physiological role in supporting spinal neurons including motoneurons.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) protects oligodendrocyte and promotes hindlimb functional recovery after spinal cord injury in rats.	Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a protein that stimulates differentiation, proliferation, and survival of cells in the granulocytic lineage. Recently, a neuroprotective effect of G-CSF was reported in a model of cerebral infarction and we previously reported the same effect in studies of murine spinal cord injury (SCI). The aim of the present study was to elucidate the potential therapeutic effect of G-CSF for SCI in rats.
Intrinsic mechanisms regulating axon regeneration: an integrin perspective.	Adult central nervous system (CNS) axons fail to regenerate after injury because of inhibitory factors in the surrounding environment and a low intrinsic regenerative capacity. Axons in the adult peripheral nervous system have a higher regenerative capacity, due in part to the presence of certain integrins-receptors for the extracellular matrix. Integrins are critical for axon growth during the development of the nervous system but are absent from some adult CNS axons. Here, we discuss the intrinsic mechanisms that regulate axon regeneration and examine the role of integrins. As correct localization is paramount to integrin function, we further discuss the mechanisms that regulate integrin traffic toward the axonal growth cone.
Inflammatory pathways in spinal cord injury.	Injury to the spinal cord results in direct damage to axons, neuronal cell bodies, and glia that cause functional loss below the site of injury. In addition, the injury also triggers an inflammatory response that contributes to secondary tissue damage that leads to further functional loss. Reducing inflammation after spinal cord injury (SCI) is therefore a worthy therapeutic goal. Inflammation in the injured spinal cord is a complex response that involves resident cells of the central nervous system as well as infiltrating immune cells, and is mediated by a variety of molecular pathways and signaling molecules. Here, we discuss approaches we have used to identify novel therapeutic targets to modulate the inflammatory response after SCI to reduce tissue damage and promote recovery. Effective treatments for SCI will likely require a combination of approaches to reduce inflammation and secondary damage with those that promote axon regeneration.
FoxM1 involvement in astrocyte proliferation after spinal cord injury in rats.	The Forkhead box M1 (FoxM1) protein is a proliferation-associated transcription factor that plays a key role in controlling both the G1/S and G2/M transitions of the cell cycle and regulates transcription of cell cycle genes, including cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p27(kip1) and p21(waf1/cip1). The expression levels of FoxM1 directly correlated with the proliferation index, cancer survival, genomic instability rate, and microvessel density, and inversely correlated with apoptosis. Furthermore, FoxM1 is determined to play a role in tissue repair following injury in the lungs and liver. However, the signaling of FoxM1, involved in its expression and its role in central nervous system lesion and repair is poorly known. In this study, we performed a spinal cord injury (SCI) model in adult Sprague-Dawley rats and investigated the dynamic changes and role of FoxM1 expression in the spinal cord. Western blot analysis revealed that FoxM1 was lowly presented in normal spinal cord. It gradually increased, reached a peak at day 3, and then declined to basal levels at 14 days after spinal cord injury. Immunohistochemistry further confirmed that FoxM1 was expressed at low levels in gray and white matters in normal condition and increased after SCI. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that FoxM1was co-expressed with NeuN (neuronal marker) and GFAP (astrocytic marker), and FoxM1 expression was increased predominantly in astrocytes after injury, which were regenerating axons and largely proliferated after injury. Furthermore, co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated increased interactions among FoxM1, Skp2, and p27(kip1) in the spinal cord after injury. Taken together, these results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying astrocyte proliferation during SCI and suggest that FoxM1 might play crucial roles in CNS pathophysiology after SCI.
Aquaporin-4 expression in post-traumatic syringomyelia.	Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is an astroglial water channel protein that plays an important role in the transmembrane movement of water within the central nervous system. AQP4 has been implicated in numerous pathological conditions involving abnormal fluid accumulation, including spinal cord edema following traumatic injury. AQP4 has not been studied in post-traumatic syringomyelia, a condition that cannot be completely explained by current theories of cerebrospinal fluid dynamics. Alterations of AQP4 expression or function may contribute to the fluid imbalance leading to syrinx formation or enlargement. The aim of this study was to examine AQP4 expression levels and distribution in an animal model of post-traumatic syringomyelia. Immunofluorescence and western blotting were used to assess AQP4 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in an excitotoxic amino acid/arachnoiditis model of post-traumatic syringomyelia in Sprague-Dawley rats. At all time-points, GFAP-positive astrocytes were observed in tissue surrounding syrinx cavities, although western blot analysis demonstrated an overall decrease in GFAP expression, except at the latest stage investigated. AQP4 expression was significantly higher at the level of syrinx at three and six weeks following the initial syrinx induction surgery. Significant increases in AQP4 expression also were observed in the upper cervical cord, rostral to the syrinx except in the acute stage of the condition at the three-day time-point. Immunostaining showed that AQP4 was expressed around all syrinx cavities, most notably adjacent to a mature syrinx (six- and 12-week time-point). This suggests a relationship between AQP4 and fluid accumulation in post-traumatic syringomyelia. However, whether this is a causal relationship or occurs in response to an increase in fluid needs to be established.
MCM7 expression is altered in rat after spinal cord injury.	Minichromosome maintenance protein 7 (MCM7), a member of the minichromosome maintenance protein family, is essential for eukaryotic DNA replication initiation and the early stage of the elongation process. MCM7 participates in the cell cycle control of genome duplication. While it is ubiquitously expressed in all tissues, the biological function of MCM7 in the central nervous system is still with limited acquaintance. In the present study, we performed a spinal cord injury (SCI) model in adult rats. Western blotting indicated a marked alteration of MCM7 after SCI. Immunohistochemistry analysis revealed a wide distribution of MCM7 in the spinal cord. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that MCM7 immunoreactivity was increased predominantly in neurons, astrocytes, and microglia after SCI. We also examined the expression profiles of active caspase-3, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), and Ki67, whose changes were correlated with the expression profiles of MCM7. Moreover, colocalization of MCM7/active caspase-3 was detected in neuronal nuclei (NeuN), and colocalization of MCM7/PCNA was detected in NeuN, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and CD11b, respectively. Our results suggest that MCM7 might be implicated in the apoptosis of neuron and proliferation of astrocytes and microglia after SCI. 
Reticulospinal plasticity after cervical spinal cord injury in the rat involves withdrawal of projections below the injury.	Restoring voluntary fine motor control of the arm and hand is one of the main goals following cervical spinal cord injury (SCI). Although the functional improvement achievable with rehabilitative training in rat models is frequently accompanied by corticospinal tract (CST) plasticity, CST rewiring alone seems insufficient to account for the observed recovery. Recent investigations in animal models of SCI have suggested that the reticulospinal tract (RtST) might contribute to mediating improved motor performance of the forelimb. Here we investigate whether the spared RtST can compensate for the loss of CST input and whether RtST projections rearrange in response to cervical SCI. Animals underwent unilateral ablation of the dorsal CST and rubrospinal tract at spinal level C4, while the ventral RtST projections were spared. At the end of the six-week recovery period, injured animals had made significant improvements in single pellet reaching. This was not accompanied by increased sprouting of the injured CST above the injury compared to uninjured control animals. Injury-induced changes in RtST fiber density within the gray matter, as well as in the number of RtST collaterals entering the gray matter or crossing the cord midline were minor above the injury. However, all analyses directly below the injured spinal level consistently point to a significant decrease of RtST projections. The mechanism and the functional relevance behind this new finding warrant further study. Our results also suggest that mechanisms other than anatomical plasticity, such as plastic changes on a cellular level, might be responsible for the observed spontaneous recovery. 
Bone morphogenetic proteins prevent bone marrow stromal cell-mediated oligodendroglial differentiation of transplanted adult neural progenitor cells in the injured spinal cord.	The loss of oligodendroglia and demyelination contributes to the lack of functional recovery after spinal cord injury. The transplantation of adult neural progenitor cells (NPCs) might be a promising strategy to replace oligodendroglia lost after injury, however only a very small proportion of grafted NPCs differentiate into oligodendroglia. The present study aimed to investigate whether co-transplantation of subventricular zone-derived NPCs with bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) will enhance oligodendroglial differentiation of NPCs. In vitro, oligodendroglial differentiation was strongly enhanced by co-cultivation of NPCs with BMSCs or BMSC-conditioned medium. For in vivo experiments, adult Fischer 344 rats underwent cervical dorsal funiculus transections, immediately followed by grafting of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) pre-labeled syngeneic NPCs mixed with BMSCs isolated from adult bone marrow. Six weeks post-injury and grafting, BMSC-containing grafts filled the lesion cavity but did not enhance oligodendroglial differentiation of co-grafted NPCs. The failure of BMSCs to induce oligodendroglial differentiation in vivo coincided with a rapid upregulation of bone morphogenetic protein 2/4 (BMP2/4) around the injury site and in vitro data demonstrated that BMP2/4 can override the oligodendrogenic effects of BMSCs. Moreover, blocking BMP activity can rescue the effect of BMSCs on NPCs. Thus, neutralization of BMP or BMP signaling might be required to allow for BMSC-induced oligodendroglial differentiation of grafted NPCs in the injured spinal cord. 
Anti-edema effect of epigallocatechin gallate on spinal cord injury in rats.	Recent studies indicated that epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) had neuroprotective effects on spinal cord injury (SCI).The current study was performed to determine the anti-edema effect of EGCG after SCI in rats. EGCG (100 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered to rats immediately following SCI. It was found that EGCG (100 mg/kg) could significantly reduce spinal cord water content. In addition, EGCG (100mg/kg) significantly reduced the expression of aquaporin-4(AQP4) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) level at 24, 48 and 72h after injury, but it did not have this effect at 12 h after injury. The changes of AQP4 and GFAP protein induced by EGCG (100 mg/kg) treatment were accompanied by a reduction of spinal cord edema. Our results indicated that EGCG (100 mg/kg) could reduce spinal cord edema after SCI, which could be correlated with the down-regulation the expression of AQP4 and GFAP protein level after SCI.
Morphological study of Schwann cells remyelination in contused spinal cord of rats.	To study the role and effect of Schwann cells (SCs) remyelination in contused spinal cord.
Neuroendocrine and cardiac metabolic dysfunction and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in adipose tissue and pancreas following chronic spinal cord injury in the mouse.	CVD (cardiovascular disease) represents a leading cause of mortality in chronic SCI (spinal cord injury). Several component risk factors are observed in SCI; however, the underlying mechanisms that contribute to these risks have not been defined. Central and peripheral chronic inflammation is associated with metabolic dysfunction and CVD, including adipokine regulation of neuroendocrine and cardiac function and inflammatory processes initiated by the innate immune response. We use female C57 Bl/6 mice to examine neuroendocrine, cardiac, adipose and pancreatic signaling related to inflammation and metabolic dysfunction in response to experimentally induced chronic SCI. Using immuno-histochemical, -precipitation, and -blotting analysis, we show decreased POMC (proopiomelanocortin) and increased NPY (neuropeptide-Y) expression in the hypothalamic ARC (arcuate nucleus) and PVN (paraventricular nucleus), 1-month post-SCI. Long-form leptin receptor (Ob-Rb), JAK2 (Janus kinase)/STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3)/p38 and RhoA/ROCK (Rho-associated kinase) signaling is significantly increased in the heart tissue post-SCI, and we observe the formation and activation of the NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome in VAT (visceral adipose tissue) and pancreas post-SCI. These data demonstrate neuroendocrine signaling peptide alterations, associated with central inflammation and metabolic dysfunction post-SCI, and provide evidence for the peripheral activation of signaling mechanisms involved in cardiac, VAT and pancreatic inflammation and metabolic dysfunction post-SCI. Further understanding of biological mechanisms contributing to SCI-related inflammatory processes and metabolic dysfunction associated with CVD pathology may help to direct therapeutic and rehabilitation countermeasures. 
P45 forms a complex with FADD and promotes neuronal cell survival following spinal cord injury.	Fas-associated death domain (DD) adaptor (FADD), a member of the DD superfamily, contains both a DD and a death effector domain (DED) that are important in mediating FAS ligand-induced apoptotic signaling. P45 is a unique member of the DD superfamily in that it has a domain with sequence and structural characteristics of both DD and DED. We show that p45 forms a complex with FADD and diminishes Fas-FADD mediated death signaling. The DED of FADD is required for the complex formation with p45. Following spinal cord injury, transgenic mice over-expressing p45 exhibit increased neuronal survival, decreased retraction of corticospinal tract fibers and improved functional recovery. Understanding p45-mediated cellular and molecular mechanisms may provide insights into facilitating nerve regeneration in humans. 
SnoN facilitates axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury.	Adult CNS neurons exhibit a reduced capacity for growth compared to developing neurons, due in part to downregulation of growth-associated genes as development is completed. We tested the hypothesis that SnoN, an embryonically regulated transcription factor that specifies growth of the axonal compartment, can enhance growth in injured adult neurons. In vitro, SnoN overexpression in dissociated adult DRG neuronal cultures significantly enhanced neurite outgrowth. Moreover, TGF-1, a negative regulator of SnoN, inhibited neurite outgrowth, and SnoN over-expression overcame this inhibition. We then examined whether SnoN influenced axonal regeneration in vivo: indeed, expression of a mutant form of SnoN resistant to degradation significantly enhanced axonal regeneration following cervical spinal cord injury, despite peri-lesional upregulation of TGF-1. Thus, a developmental mechanism that specifies extension of the axonal compartment also promotes axonal regeneration after adult CNS injury. 
Concise review: Spinal cord injuries: how could adult mesenchymal and neural crest stem cells take up the challenge?	Since several years, adult/perinatal mesenchymal and neural crest stem cells have been widely used to help experimental animal to recover from spinal cord injury. More interestingly, recent clinical trials confirmed the beneficial effect of those stem cells, which improve functional score of patients suffering from such lesions. However, a complete understanding of the mechanisms of stem cell-induced recovery is seriously lacking. Indeed, spinal cord injuries gathered a wide range of biochemical and physiopathological events (such as inflammation, oxidative stress, axonal damage, demyelination, etc.) and the genuine healing process after cell transplantation is not sufficiently defined. This review aims to sum up recent data about cell therapy in spinal cord lesions using mesenchymal or recently identified neural crest stem cells, by describing precisely which physiopathological parameter is affected and the exact processes underlying the observed changes. Overall, although significant advances are acknowledged, it seems that further deep mechanistic investigation is needed for the development of optimized and efficient cell-based therapy protocols.
Persistent phosphorylation of NKCC1 and WNK1 in the epicenter of the spinal cord following contusion injury.	NKCC1 regulates neuronal homeostasis of chloride ions and mediates GABAergic activities in nociceptive processing. WNK1 is an upstream regulator of NKCC1 and acts via SPAK (STE20/SPS1-related proline/alanine-rich kinase) and oxidative stress-responsive kinase 1. NKCC1 activity has been shown to be important in edema formation and nociception following spinal cord injury (SCI).
Canine epidermal neural crest stem cells: characterization and potential as therapy candidate for a large animal model of spinal cord injury.	The discovery of multipotent neural crest-derived stem cells, named epidermal neural crest stem cells (EPI-NCSC), that persist postnatally in an easy-to-access location-the bulge of hair follicles-opens a spectrum of novel opportunities for patient-specific therapies. We present a detailed characterization of canine EPI-NCSC (cEPI-NCSC) from multiple dog breeds and protocols for their isolation and ex vivo expansion. Furthermore, we provide novel tools for research in canines, which currently are still scarce. In analogy to human and mouse EPI-NCSC, the neural crest origin of cEPI-NCSC is shown by their expression of the neural crest stem cell molecular signature and other neural crest-characteristic genes. Similar to human EPI-NCSC, cEPI-NCSC also expressed pluripotency genes. We demonstrated that cEPI-NCSC can generate all major neural crest derivatives. In vitro clonal analyses established multipotency and self-renewal ability of cEPI-NCSC, establishing cEPI-NCSC as multipotent somatic stem cells. A critical analysis of the literature on canine spinal cord injury (SCI) showed the need for novel treatments and suggested that cEPI-NCSC represent viable candidates for cell-based therapies in dog SCI, particularly for chondrodystrophic dogs. This notion is supported by the close ontological relationship between neural crest stem cells and spinal cord stem cells. Thus, cEPI-NCSC promise to offer not only a potential treatment for canines but also an attractive and realistic large animal model for human SCI. Taken together, we provide the groundwork for the development of a novel cell-based therapy for a condition with extremely poor prognosis and no available effective treatment. 
Expressional difference, distributions of TGF-1 in TGF-1 knock down transgenic mouse, and its possible roles in injured spinal cord.	Transforming growth factor 1 (TGF-1) is a multi-functional cytokine implicated in many aspects of mammalian wound healing and scar tissue formation. However, few experiments have so far addressed the potential biological effects of TGF-1 in the nervous system after injury, in addition to the immune system. In the present study, expressional silencing TGF-1 was achieved by selecting predesigning hairpins targeting mouse TGF-1 genes. Four homozygous transgenic offspring were generated and designed as Founder 90, Founder 12, Founder 41 and Founder 46. The down-regulated rates of TGF-1 in different transgenic mice were also determined. To investigate the potential roles of TGF-1, we observed changes in the neurological behavior of TGF-1-knockdown (TGF-1-kd) mice after spinal cord transection (SCT). Moreover, mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, NF-B and TNF, were also detected in nucleate cells from blood by real-time PCR. Consequently, different TGF-1 expressions were detected in multiple tissues, and protein levels of TGF-1 decreased at different rates relative to that of wild type (WT) ones. The levels of TGF-1 proteins in TGF-1-kd mice decreased at most by 57% in Founder 90, which showed a significant recovery in Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan (BBB) scores after SCT compared with that of WT. However, expressions of immune relative genes showed no dramatic difference compared with WT ones. This study is the first to generate TGF-1 down regulated mice and determine the possible roles of TGF-1 in vivo in different conditions.
Acute exercise prevents the development of neuropathic pain and the sprouting of non-peptidergic (GDNF- and artemin-responsive) c-fibers after spinal cord injury.	Spinal cord injury (SCI) impaired sensory fiber transmission leads to chronic, debilitating neuropathic pain. Sensory afferents are responsive to neurotrophic factors, molecules that are known to promote survival and maintenance of neurons, and regulate sensory neuron transduction of peripheral stimuli. A subset of primary afferent fibers responds only to the glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of ligands (GFLs) and is non-peptidergic. In peripheral nerve injury models, restoration of GDNF or artemin (another GFL) to pre-injury levels within the spinal cord attenuates neuropathic pain. One non-invasive approach to increase the levels of GFLs in the spinal cord is through exercise (Ex), and to date exercise training is the only ameliorative, non-pharmacological treatment for SCI-induced neuropathic pain. The purpose of this study was 3-fold: 1) to determine whether exercise affects the onset of SCI-induced neuropathic pain; 2) to examine the temporal profile of GDNF and artemin in the dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord dorsal horn regions associated with forepaw dermatomes after SCI and Ex; and 3) to characterize GFL-responsive sensory fiber plasticity after SCI and Ex. Adult, female, Sprague-Dawley rats received a moderate, unilateral spinal cord contusion at C5. A subset of rats was exercised (SCI+Ex) on automated running wheels for 20min, 5days/week starting at 5days post-injury (dpi), continuing until 9 or 37dpi. Hargreaves' and von Frey testing was performed preoperatively and weekly post-SCI. Forty-two percent of rats in the unexercised group exhibited tactile allodynia of the forepaws while the other 58% retained normal sensation. The development of SCI-induced neuropathic pain correlated with a marked decrease in the levels of GDNF and artemin in the spinal cord and DRGs. Additionally, a dramatic increase in the density and the distribution throughout the dorsal horn of GFL-responsive afferents was observed in rats with SCI-induced allodynia. Importantly, in SCI rats that received Ex, the incidence of tactile allodynia decreased to 7% (1/17) and there was maintenance of GDNF and artemin at normal levels, with a normal distribution of GFL-responsive fibers. These data suggest that GFLs and/or their downstream effectors may be important modulators of pain fiber plasticity, representing effective targets for anti-allodynic therapeutics. Furthermore, we highlight the potent beneficial effects of acute exercise after SCI. 
Beclin-1-mediated autophagy protects spinal cord neurons against mechanical injury-induced apoptosis.	Apoptosis has been widely reported to be involved in the pathogenesis associated with spinal cord injury (SCI). Recently, autophagy has also been implicated in various neuronal damage models. However, the role of autophagy in SCI is still controversial and its interrelationship with apoptosis remains unclear. Here, we used an in vitro SCI model to observe a time-dependent induction of autophagy and apoptosis. Mechanical injury induced autophagy markers such as LC3 lipidation, LC3II/LC3I conversion, and Beclin-1 expression. Injured neurons showed decreased cell viability and increased apoptosis. To elucidate the effect of autophagy on apoptosis, the mechanically-injured neurons were treated with the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin and 3-methyl adenine (3-MA), which are known to regulate autophagy positively and negatively, respectively. Rapamycin-treated neurons showed the highest level of cell viability and lowest level of apoptosis among the injured neurons and those treated with 3-MA showed the reciprocal effect. Notably, rapamycin-treated neurons exhibited slightly reduced Bax expression and significantly increased Bcl-2 expression. Furthermore, by plasmid transfection, we showed that Beclin-1-overexpressing neuronal cells responded to mechanical injury with greater LC3II/LC3I conversion and cell viability, lower levels of apoptosis, higher Bcl-2 expression, and unaltered Bax expression as compared to vector control cells. Beclin-1-knockdown neurons showed almost the opposite effects. Taken together, our results suggest that autophagy may serve as a protection against apoptosis in mechanically-injured spinal cord neurons. Targeting mTOR and/or enhancing Beclin-1 expression might be alternative therapeutic strategies for SCI.
LIN28 expression in rat spinal cord after injury.	LIN28, an RNA-binding protein, is known to be involved in the regulation of many cellular processes, such as embryonic stem cell proliferation, cell fate succession, developmental timing, and oncogenesis. However, its expression and function in central nervous system still unclear. In this study, we performed an acute spinal cord contusion injury (SCI) model in adult rats and investigated the dynamic changes of LIN28 expression in spinal cord. Western blot and immunohistochemistry analysis revealed that LIN28 was present in normal spinal cord. It gradually increased, reached a peak at 3 day, and then nearly declined to the basal level at 14 days after SCI. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that LIN28 immunoreactivity was found in neurons, astrocytes and a handful of microglia. Interestingly, LIN28 expression was increased predominantly in astrocytes but not in neurons. Moreover, the colocalization of LIN28 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen was detected after injury. Western blot showed that LIN28 participated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced astrocytes inflammatory responses by NF-B signaling pathway. These results suggested that LIN28 may be involved in the pathologic process of SCI, and further research is needed to have a good understanding of its function and mechanism.
Clinical pharmacokinetics in patients with spinal cord injuries.	Although spinal cord injury is a catastrophic affliction with numerous victims and a variety of physiological manifestations, the associated disarray in physiology has yet to be systematically or comprehensively studied as a probable cause for altered pharmacokinetics. A significant increase in the volume of distribution of drugs such as the aminoglycosides (gentamicin, amikacin, tobramycin), which are highly distributed into the extracellular fluid space and minimally biotransformed, may be anticipated in patients with chronic spinal cord injury. Changes in total body clearance have also been observed for some of these medications. The influence of the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury on gastrointestinal motility appears to be reflected in an impairment in the bioavailability of drugs [theophylline, paracetamol (acetaminophen), doxycycline] which are passively absorbed and which require an intact postprandial gastric emptying to ensure efficient absorption. For theophylline, the impairment in gastrointestinal absorption appears to be directly proportional to both the magnitude of the impairment in gastric emptying and to the neurological level of the injury. Metoclopramide, a gastrointestinal prokinetic drug, has been shown to be extremely effective in normalising the impaired postprandial gastric emptying that characterises spinal cord injury. The systemic absorption of 2 antibiotics (gentamicin and cefotiam) injected into paralysed muscle is also impaired in patients with spinal cord injury, suggesting that a decrease in therapeutic efficacy attributable to this mode of administration may be anticipated. Despite the multiplicity of drugs commonly prescribed for patients with this injury, little is known about the influence of this illness on either bioavailability or postabsorptive pharmacokinetics. For drugs which are biotransformed and which have a relatively small volume of distribution (theophylline, lorazepam, ranitidine), single-dose intravenous pharmacokinetic profiles in patients with spinal cord injury are indistinguishable from the drug disposition profiles characteristic of healthy control populations. It may be inferred, then that the influence of the pathophysiology of spinal cord injury on drug disposition is greatest on those drugs which are the least biotransformed and most likely to be distributed into the increased extracellular fluid volume which is characteristic of patients with this disability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effects of methylprednisolone and the combination of alpha-tocopherol and selenium on arachidonic acid metabolism and lipid peroxidation in traumatized spinal cord tissue.	Traumatic injury of the spinal cord leads to a series of pathological events that result in tissue necrosis and paralysis. Among the earliest biochemical reactions are hydrolysis of fatty acids from membrane phospholipids, production of biologically active eicosanoids, and peroxidation of lipids. This study examines the effect of agents purported to improve recovery following spinal cord trauma, methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS) and the combination of alpha-tocopherol and selenium (Se), on the posttraumatic alterations of membrane lipid metabolism. Pretreatment with either MPSS or alpha-tocopherol and Se reduced the trauma-induced release of total FFA including arachidonate in the injured spinal cord tissue. In addition, these agents decreased the postinjury levels of prostanoids. Pretreatment with either MPSS or alpha-tocopherol and Se also completely prevented the trauma-induced loss of cholesterol while inhibiting the increase of a cholesterol peroxidation product, 25-hydroxycholesterol. These data suggest that: perturbation of membrane lipid metabolism may contribute to the tissue necrosis and functional deficit of spinal cord injury and MPSS or the combination of alpha-tocopherol and Se may protect injured spinal cord tissue, at least in part, by limiting these posttraumatic membrane lipid changes.
Spinal cord immunoreactive TRH is altered after local traumatic injury.	The effect of impaction-induced spinal trauma on the concentration of immunoreactive TRH (TRH-ir) in the spinal cord was studied. Samples were obtained from tissues proximal to, distal to, and at the site of injury at 30 min, 1 hr, 4 hr, and 6 weeks after impaction. After an initial 38% depletion of TRH-ir at the injury site at 30 min, concentrations were progressively elevated over time at all sites. These elevations reached statistical significance in the proximal and distal segments by 4 hr posttrauma. By 6 weeks, a rostral-caudal gradient of TRH-ir concentration was observed, indicating that axoplasmic transport was restricted. The gradient was characterized by a significant TRH-ir elevation proximal to, and a 60% depletion distal to, the injury. The short-term TRH-ir elevation measured indicates that the ability of exogenously administered TRH to reduce the incidence of posttraumatic functional deficit stems from a restoration of endogenous TRH action. The role of the raphe-spinal tract in the development of traumatic paralysis is considered.
Enhanced expression of a protein antigen (J1-31 antigen, 30 kilodaltons) by reactive astrocytes in lacerated spinal cord.	A mouse monoclonal antibody (MAb J1-31, isotype IgG 2b) was raised against an autopsy sample of cerebral white matter from a multiple sclerosis (MS) patient. MAb J1-31 recognizes a protein (J1-31 antigen) in human brain which has a molecular weight of approximately 30,000 daltons (30 kD) as determined by immunoprecipitation followed by SDS-gel electrophoresis (reducing conditions) and autoradiography (Singh et al.: Biosci Rep 6:73-79, 1986). By immunofluorescence microscopy, MAb J1-31 stains glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells, namely astrocytes, of both human and rat. Yet J1-31 antigen is distinct from GFAP (Predy et al.: Biosci Rep 7:491-502, 1987). In this paper we report that greatly enhanced staining for J1-31 antigen is exhibited by reactive astrocytes which arise following CNS injury. (Laceration-type surgical lesion of the rat spinal cord served as the experimental model). Enhanced expression of J1-31 antigen reveals some new aspect of the astrocyte response to injury, involving transformation to the reactive state. Consequently, MAb J1-31 may be a useful marker for studies on reactive astrocytes.
Alterations in tissue Mg++, Na+ and spinal cord edema following impact trauma in rats.	Alterations in water content and total tissue Na+ and Mg++ of rat spinal cord tissue were followed over time after a 100 g-cm impact injury to the T-9 spinal cord segment. Rats subjected to laminectomy but not trauma served as controls. In the injured segment there was a progressive increase in water content with increased Na+ and decreased Mg++ at 1 hour and 24 hours after trauma. At seven days, water and Na+ content remained elevated, whereas Mg++ levels had returned to preinjury baseline values. Because of its important role in many metabolic and physiological regulatory processes the early decline in Mg++ concentration after trauma may contribute to the development of secondary tissue damage after spinal cord injury.
31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy of traumatic spinal cord injury.	31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) was applied in vivo to study metabolic changes in spinal cord after experimental traumatic injury. Severe trauma, resulting in spastic paraplegia, caused an early and sustained loss of high energy phosphates with profound intracellular acidosis. Early metabolic changes after traumatic spinal injury may predict irreversible tissue damage.
Seminal somatostatin in men with spinal cord injury.	Somatostatin is present in high concentrations in human seminal plasma. Semen was obtained from men with spinal cord injury by vibratory-and/or electrostimulation. The seminal somatostatin concentration and sperm motility rate depended on the location of the spinal cord lesion. In men with lesions at or above T6 the seminal plasma concentration was significantly decreased compared to healthy men and to patients with lesions below T6 (P < 0.005). The latter group did not differ from healthy men. Men with spinal cord lesions below T6 had significantly decreased sperm motility rates (P = 0.09) compared to patients with lesions at or above T6. Seminal somatostatin concentrations were similar in vibratory- and electrostimulated ejaculates. The seminal somatostatin concentration, semen volume, sperm count, motility and morphology in each patient was not affected when repeated vibratory ejaculations were performed at home.
Time-dependent effects of dexamethasone on glutamate binding, ornithine decarboxylase activity and polyamine levels in the transected spinal cord.	Evidence exists that the spinal cord is a glucocorticoid-responsive tissue, and glucocorticoids have beneficial effects in cases of spinal cord injury. Using sham-operated rats, spinal cord transected (TRX) rats, and TRX animals receiving dexamethasone (DEX) 5 min or 24 h post-lesion, we have examined the following GC-sensitive parameters 6 h after DEX treatment: (1) binding of glutamate to NMDA-sensitive receptors; (2) the activity of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC); and (3) levels of polyamines. We found that glutamate binding in the dorsal horn (Laminae 1-2) and central canal were upregulated in TRX rats, whereas DEX had an additional stimulatory effect. 24 h post-lesion, glutamate binding was unmodified in TRX or TRX+DEX rats. ODC activity was increased 10-fold in rats killed on the day of transection but only 2-fold 24 h post-lesion. DEX reduced ODC activity on transection day but highly increased it when given 24 h after surgery. The content of the polyamines spermidine and spermine were unchanged after TRX or DEX treatment, in contrast to putrescine which increased in TRX rats and further increased in TRX+DEX rats when measured the day post-lesion. Thus, parallel increases in ODC and putrescine 1 day after the lesion, suggest that glucocorticoid effects on growth responses due to polyamines may develop at a late period. The changes of glutamate binding in the dorsal horn and central canal due to early glucocorticoid treatment, further suggest hormonal modulation of neurotransmission in sensitive areas of the deafferented spinal cord.
Changes in the content of immunoreactive dynorphin in dorsal and ventral spinal cord of the rat in three different conditions.	Previous study in our group demonstrated that dynorphin exerted a significant analgesic effect in spinal cord, and electroacupuncture (EA) of high frequency (100 Hz) produced analgesia which was mediated by dynorphin released in spinal cord. However, no data are up to nowadays available for demonstrating either from anterior horn or from dorsal horn the dynorphin comes. Using radioimmunoassay, we found in the present study that ir-dynorphin content in dorsal horn was 10 times more than in anterior horn, which were 11.24 +/- 0.91 pmol/10 mg protein and 1.08 +/- 0.20 pmol/10 mg protein, respectively. Stimulation of 100 Hz EA for 30 min produced a significant increase of ir-dynorphin content in dorsal horn, in contrast, no change of ir-dynorphin content was found in anterior horn. For the meanwhile, a significant elevation of ir-dynorphin was induced by 100 Hz EA in cerebrospinal fluid. It is concluded according to these data that EA, as a stimulation in physiological condition, elevates the content of ir-dynorphin only in dorsal horn, and induces release of dynorphin in loci. The released dynorphin acts on dorsal horn to mediate the analgesia of EA.
Sequential expression of c-fos protooncogene, TNF-alpha, and dynorphin genes in spinal cord following experimental traumatic injury.	Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to estimate dynamic changes in levels of c-fos protooncogene, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), and preprodynorphin messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) isolated from individual segments (T1 to T12) of rat spinal cord following graded impact trauma (50 or 100 g/cm) to the T9 segment of pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. Trauma caused elevation of c-fos mRNA at the trauma site by 30 min after injury that was related to injury severity. At this time, increased levels of TNF-alpha (but not of preprodynorphin) mRNA were also found. By 24 h, c-fos and TNF-alpha mRNA had returned to normal levels at trauma site, but were now increased at more distal segments (T5 and T12). At 4 h after trauma, induction of preprodynorphin mRNA was detected at the trauma site; levels continued to be elevated at 24 h when they were also detected at T5 and T12. Increases for each mRNA were greater for severe as compared to moderate trauma. The injury dose- and time-dependent changes in c-fos, TNF-alpha, and preprodynorphin gene expression suggest that their respective proteins are synthesized in response to trauma, and may play a part in the secondary injury response. Later accumulation of message distant from the trauma site may reflect a progression of delayed damage along the spinal cord.
An experimental model combining microdialysis with electrophysiology, histology, and neurochemistry for studying excitotoxicity in spinal cord injury. Effect of NMDA and kainate.	We used an experimental model that we previously developed to characterize the damage caused by the agonists of glutamate receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainate, in the spinal cord in vivo, thereby testing further the utility of this model. Microdialysis was used to administer the toxins and to sample the release of other substances in response to these agents. The blockage of electrical conduction was monitored by recording the amplitudes of evoked potentials during administration of the damaging substances, and damage was assessed by postmortem histological examination. The released amino acids in microdialysates were measured by HPLC. Administration of 5 mM NMDA + 5 mM kainate into the gray matter blocked most postsynaptic responses and caused the release of amino acids. Administration of 10 mM NMDA and 10 mM kainate significantly destroyed cell bodies near the fiber. The advantage of this model is that histological, neurochemical, and electrophysiological parameters were obtained in the same experiment.
Cryo-jet preservation of calcium in the rat spinal cord.	In order to determine the distribution of diffusible ions, especially calcium, in rat spinal cord axons before and after trauma, sham, 6 hours post 6 gm/cm and 20 gm/cm trauma cords were cryo-jet frozen in situ and cryo-sections were subjected to electron probe X-ray microanalysis. The results confirm part of the Ca hypothesis, i.e., some spinal cord axons accumulate intracellular Ca after traumatic injury. In addition, 6 hours after trauma, Ca is only accumulated by axons that have also lost homeostasis. Thus, it is likely that observations of the continual rise of Ca in the traumatized spinal cord are due to an increase in the number of axons that have lost homeostasis rather than an overall increase in Ca within surviving cells.
Spinal cord injuries: comments on preventive and curative strategy]	Research for the cure for paralysis caused by spinal cord injury has followed three complementary lines: Limitation of secondary lesions; the use of antagonists of excitatory amino acids has proven affective in reducing the extent of the lesions. Control of the glial scar; an oxygenated derivative of cholesterol can reduce the proliferation of reactive astrocytes and their hypertrophy, and permit the regrowth of axons in a denervated territory. Transplantation of embryonic neurons below the lesion allows to reinnervate denervated sites and reestablish reflex functions.
High- and low-affinity NMDA receptor-binding sites in rat spinal cord: effects of traumatic injury.	N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated events have been implicated in the pathophysiology of posttraumatic spinal cord injury. In the present study, [3H]MK801 was used to analyse the changes in NMDA receptor-binding sites in rat spinal cord after impact trauma at T9. In contrast to brain, which showed only a single binding site, spinal cord showed both high-affinity (Kd1 = 0.47 +/- 0.24 nM) and low-affinity (Kd2 = 7.75 +/- 1.82 nM) binding sites with relatively low binding density (Bmax1 = 0.11 +/- 0.04 pmol/mg protein and Bmax2 = 0.84 +/- 0.11 pmol/mg protein). Time-course studies demonstrated significant decreases in the binding of [3H]MK801 at the thoracic and lumbar segments at 4 h after spinal cord injury with recovery by 24 h. Scatchard analyses indicate that these changes likely involve both high- and low-affinity binding sites. The transitory reduction in [3H]MK801-binding after trauma may reflect downregulation of NMDA receptors as a consequence of posttraumatic glutamate release and may serve to limit excitotoxin-induced injury.
Lipid alterations following impact spinal cord injury in the rat.	A computer-controlled impactor was used to produce a severe spinal cord injury in the rat thoracic spinal cord. Cords were rapidly frozen in situ at 5, 15, 30, and 60 min and 6, 12, and 24 h postinjury. Control cords were noninjured cords from animals having undergone a laminectomy and allowed to recover for 90 min postlaminectomy. The cords were assayed for alterations in lipid metabolism. Specifically, there were rapid increases in prostaglandin F2 alpha and thromboxane, with a peak increase in thromboxane levels at 30 min. Prostaglandin F2 alpha levels peaked at 15 min with levels remaining nearly constant for 12 h. There were no detectable changes in phospholipid levels, although diacylglycerol levels and free fatty acid levels were increased. Total free fatty acids were increased at 12 and 24 h postinjury by 2.3- and 3.2-fold over control levels, respectively. Arachidonic acid levels were not significantly elevated at early time points, however, these early time points correspond to elevated eicosanoid synthesis and this may account for the lack of early detectable increases in arachidonic acid. After 6 h postinjury, arachidonic acid levels were 20-fold greater than control levels and remained elevated at 24 h. There were minimal decreases in cholesterol and no decrease in either choline or ethanolamine plasmalogen levels. These results suggest a rapid turnover of arachidonic acid following spinal cord injury with a concomitant increase in vasoconstrictive eicosanoid synthesis. The lack of changes in major membrane constituents suggests the mechanisms may not involve general membrane degradation, but an over-stimulation of phospholipase A2-linked membrane receptors.
Creatinine, calcium, citrate and acid-base in spinal cord injured patients.	The aim of this work was to recognise factors responsible for reduced citrate excretion, previously reported in patients with spinal cord lesions and possibly related to the occurrence of urinary tract stone or catheter blockage. Inter alia, a reference range for creatinine in plasma (34-88 mumol/l) was also obtained. Two groups of subjects were studied. The first group consisted of 64 male inpatients with spinal cord lesions and 20 male control subjects. The second group were 342 spinal patients who attended an outpatient clinic and 31 control subjects. Plasma calcium was within the normal range but higher in patients within 1 year of onset of the cord lesion than it was later or than was found in control subjects. Plasma pH and bicarbonate were within the normal range but higher in the patients than in the control subjects. When patients with urea-splitting infection were omitted the patients had a higher urinary pH and a lower urinary ammonium than the controls. Urinary and plasma citrate were lower in the patients than in the controls. Urinary citrate was related to urinary potassium and creatinine clearance. Fractional renal tubular reabsorption of citrate did not differ between patients with normal renal function and control subjects. Patients with normal glomerular filtration had lower filtered load of citrate than the controls. The coincidence of relative alkalosis and reduced citrate excretion may be relevant to the understanding of catheter blockage and urinary stone formation in spinal cord injured patients.
trkC expression in the injured rat spinal cord.	Reactive non-neuronal cells express high levels of low-affinity neurotrophin receptor and truncated trkB receptors after spinal cord injury. Here we report that descending nerve fibres in the rat lateral spinal cord column show strong trkC-like immunoreactivity after traumatic spinal cord lesions in the adult rat. No change in trkC expression by glial cells could be detected by immunohistochemistry or in situ hybridization at the lesion site. The data suggest that regeneration of descending spinal cord axons could be encouraged by the trkC ligand, neurotrophin 3.
p-Chlorophenylalanine, a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, reduces the response of glial fibrillary acidic protein induced by trauma to the spinal cord. An immunohistochemical investigation in the rat.	The possibility that serotonin may influence the early response of astrocytes around a spinal cord trauma was investigated in a rat model by making a unilateral incision into the right dorsal horn of the T10-11 segments. One group of rats received a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, p-chlorophenylalanine (p-CPA) before injury in doses which cause a depletion of serotonin in the cord. Another group of traumatised rats did not receive p-CPA. All animals were allowed to survive for 5 h. Samples for immunohistochemistry were taken from the T9, T10-11 and T12 segments of the cord. Paraffin sections were immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) using monoclonal antibodies and avidin-biotin complex technique. Trauma to the cord resulted in a marked increase of GFAP immunoreactivity in all the investigated segments, particularly in the ipsilateral side. Pretreatment with p-CPA markedly reduced the GFAP response. This drug did not by itself influence the GFAP immunoreactivity of the cord of untraumatised rats. Our results show that trauma to the spinal cord induces a rapid enhancement of GFAP immunoreactivity in the cord which is present even far away from the primary lesion. This response can be prevented by pretreatment with the serotonin synthesis inhibitor, p-CPA. The results indicate that serotonin influences the increase of GFAP immunoreactivity following spinal cord injury either directly or indirectly, for instance by its microvascular reactions.
Vesical urothelium proliferation in spinal cord injured persons: an immunohistochemical study of PCNA and MIB.1 labelling.	Urinary tract infection occurs more commonly, is more virulent and proves more difficult to eradicate in spinal cord injury persons than in the neurologically intact. In order to find out the peculiarities of the neuropathic bladder which make it vulnerable to recurrent cystitis, we studied the proliferation status of the urothelium in spinal cord injured persons. Eleven consecutive, unselected male spinal cord injury patients (aged 18-73 years) were included in the study. Those with, or undergoing treatment for acute urinary tract infection were excluded. All patients underwent cystoscopy and cold cup bladder biopsy from the trigone and bladder dome. Immunocytochemical analysis was performed using defined, commercially available antibodies for PCNA (PCNA 10, DAKO) and MIB-1 (raised against recombinant DNA defined segment of Ki-67 antigen DAKO) streptavidin/biotin and alkaline phosphatase immunocytochemistry (for MIB-1 with microwave-enhanced antigen retrieval) were used to demonstrate the presence of cell cycling-associated nuclear proteins. Foci of lymphocytic aggregations present in the sections served as in-section controls for antigen preservation. Ten patients showed labelling of 20-70% of cells for PCNA in basal cell layers of dome lining. Higher urothelial layers showed a variable, but generally reduced degree of labelling. Of these 10 patients, three showed complete absence of MIB-1 activity in the basal and other layers of dome urothelium and two demonstrated only a very occasional positive nucleus. MIB-1 labelling was < 5% in four others and it was between 5% and 10% in one.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Microscopic analysis of early histopathological spinal cord alterations following trauma in normal and cathecholamine-depleted cats.	The progressive histopathological sequence over the first 3 hr after a 400 g-cm blunt injury to the spinal cord of catecholamine (CA)-intact and CA-depleted cats is described. Norepinephrine levels were measured in all animals. The experiments were designed to determine the role of CA in progressive hemorrhagic necrosis of the spinal cord by removing CA from one group of animals prior to trauma. A second group of CA-intact animals was subjected to identical experimentally-induced trauma. Upon analysis of the histopathological changes, it appears that the sequential nature of the development of hemorrhagic necrosis is both qualitatively and quantitatively similar in both experimental groups. The general conclusion is drawn that catecholamines in greater than normal amounts are present at the lesion site after trauma, but these catecholamines are probably not involved in the process of central hemorrhagic necrosis.
The expression of nerve growth factor receptor on Schwann cells and the effect of these cells on the regeneration of axons in traumatically injured human spinal cord.	To investigate the effects of Schwann cells and nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) on the regeneration of axons, autopsy specimens of spinal cord from 21 patients with a survival time of 2 h to 54 years after spinal cord trauma were studied using immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Regenerating sprouts of axons could be observed as early as 4 days after trauma. At 4.5 months after trauma, many regenerating nests of axons appeared in the injured spinal cord. The regeneration nests contained directionally arranged axons and Schwann cells. Some axons were myelinated. In injured levels of the spinal cord, the Schwann cells exhibited an increased expression of NGFR within spinal roots. These results show that an active regeneration process occurs in traumatically injured human spinal cord. The NGFR expressed on Schwann cells could mediate NGF to support and induce the axon regeneration in the central nervous system.
Changes in dynamin and actin mRNA expression in the dorsal column-medial lemniscal system following dorsal column lesion.	Transection of the third cervical hindlimb dorsal column nerve fibers in the spinal cord leads to a partial deafferentation atrophy of the neurons of the ascending dorsal column-medial lemniscal neural network (DC-ML) up to the cortex. We now examine the alteration of the steady-state level mRNA coding for the synaptic vesicle protein, dynamin I and the cytoskeletal protein beta-actin as early indicators of direct and trans-synaptic changes in the relay nuclei of the DC-ML. Rats were sacrificed at 6, 24, 72, and 240 hr after C3 hindlimb dorsal column or sham lesion. By 24 hr, there are changes in the steady-state levels of mRNA coding for both dynamin I and beta-actin in regions of the brain containing the first (nucleus gracilis of medulla) and third synaptic relays (cortex). Beta-actin mRNA is increased at both 6 and 24 hr in the nucleus gracilis. The changes in dynamin I mRNA in the nucleus gracilis are early and biphasic, elevated at 6 hr but decreased compared to sham by 24 hr. In both regions, the initial fluctuations of dynamin I and beta-actin mRNA levels are transient. By 72 hr, the levels are no different from those of sham-lesioned animals. In the somatomotor cortex, there is an additional increase in beta-actin mRNA levels at 240 hr. The increased steady-state levels of dynamin and actin mRNA following a hindlimb dorsal column lesion suggest that increased synaptic vesicle recycling and actin cytoskeleton rearrangement are some of the early responses to deafferentation made by the neurons of the DC-ML synaptic relays.
Expression of adhesion molecules and monocyte chemoattractant protein -1 (MCP-1) in the spinal cord lesions in HTLV-I-associated myelopathy.	Leukocyte adhesion molecules to endothelium plays an important role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases, including HTLV-I-associated myelopathy (HAM)/tropical spastic paraparesis (TSP). To help define the role of adhesion molecules in HAM/TSP, we studied the expression of lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1), Mac-1, very late antigen-4 (VLA-4), Sialyl Lewisx (SLex), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 (ELAM-1) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) in the spinal cord lesions of HAM/TSP. The results indicate that spinal cord lesions of HAM/TSP have greater VCAM-1 expression on endothelium compared with those of controls. Infiltrating mononuclear cells, especially perivascular lesions, expressed VLA-4. Although the expression of ICAM-1 in the spinal cords was not distinctive between HAM/TSP and controls, infiltrating mononuclear cells in the spinal cords of HAM/TSP strongly expressed LFA-1 and Mac-1. ELAM-1 was expressed on endothelium in the inactive-chronic lesions from three of five HAM/HAM/TSP, but was not detectable in the spinal cords of controls. SLex reactions was detectable on occasional perivascular cells in the spinal cord of HAM/TSP, but not in those controls. MCP-1 was detectable on perivascular infiltrating cells and vascular endothelium in active-chronic lesions. This study suggest that VLA-4/VCAM-1 interaction may play an important role for lymphocyte migration into the central nervous system (CNS) and MCP-1 may also be involved in inflammatory cell recruitment to the CNS in HAM/TSP.
Expression of insulin-like growth factors and corresponding binding proteins (IGFBP 1-6) in rat spinal cord and peripheral nerve after axonal injuries.	Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) exert trophic effects on several different cell types in the nervous system, including spinal motoneurons. After peripheral nerve injury, the increased expression of IGFs in the damaged nerve has been suggested to facilitate axonal regeneration. Here we have examined the expression pattern of mRNAs encoding IGF-1 and and -2, IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) 1-6 in the rat spinal cord and peripheral nerve in three lesion models affecting lumbar motoneurons, i.e., sciatic nerve transection, ventral root avulsion, and a cut lesion in the ventral funiculus of the spinal cord. The expression was also studied in enriched Schwann cell and astrocyte cultures. The injured sciatic nerve expressed IGF-1 and IGF-2 as well as IGFBP-4 and IGFBP-5, whereas central nervous system (CNS) scar tissue expressed IGF-1, IGFBP-2, and IGFBP-5. IGFBP-6 mRNA was strongly upregulated in spinal motoneurons after all three types of lesions. IGFBP-6-like immunoreactivity was present in motoneuron cell bodies, dendrites in the ventral horn, and axons in the sciatic nerve. In line with the in vivo findings, cultured Schwann cells expressed IGF-1, IGF-2, IGFBP-4, and IGFBP-5 mRNAs, whereas cultured astrocytes expressed IGF-1, IGFBP-2, and IGFBP-5 mRNAs. These findings show that IGF-1 is available for lesioned motoneurons both after peripheral and central axonal lesions, whereas there are clear differences in the expression patterns for IGF-2 and some of the binding proteins in CNS and peripheral nervous system (PNS) scar tissue. The robust upregulation of IGFBP-6 mRNA in lesioned motoneurons suggests that this binding protein may be of special relevance for the severed cells.
The effect of epidural cooling on lipid peroxidation after experimental spinal cord injury.	The effect of epidural space perfusion with chilled saline solution (% 0.9 NaCl) on lipid peroxidation after experimental spinal cord injury in rats was evaluated.
Exercise-induced overexpression of key regulatory proteins involved in glucose uptake and metabolism in tetraplegic persons: molecular mechanism for improved glucose homeostasis.	Complete spinal cord lesion leads to profound metabolic abnormalities and striking changes in muscle morphology. Here we assess the effects of electrically stimulated leg cycling (ESLC) on whole body insulin sensitivity, skeletal muscle glucose metabolism, and muscle fiber morphology in five tetraplegic subjects with complete C5-C7 lesions. Physical training (seven ESLC sessions/wk for 8 wk) increased whole body insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by 33+/-13%, concomitant with a 2.1-fold increase in insulin-stimulated (100 microU/ml) 3-O-methylglucose transport in isolated vastus lateralis muscle. Physical training led to a marked increase in protein expression of GLUT4 (378+/-85%), glycogen synthase (526+/-146%), and hexokinase II (204+/-47%) in vastus lateralis muscle, whereas phosphofructokinase expression (282+/-97%) was not significantly changed. Hexokinase II activity was significantly increased, whereas activity of phosphofructokinase, glycogen synthase, and citrate synthase was not changed after training. Muscle fiber type distribution and fiber area were markedly altered compared to able-bodied subjects before ESLC training, with no change noted in either parameter after ECSL training. In conclusion, muscle contraction improves insulin action on whole body and cellular glucose uptake in cervical cord-injured persons through a major increase in protein expression of key genes involved in the regulation of glucose metabolism. Furthermore, improvements in insulin action on glucose metabolism are independent of changes in muscle fiber type distribution.
Lower daily energy expenditure as measured by a respiratory chamber in subjects with spinal cord injury compared with control subjects.	This study was designed to determine the effect of chronic spinal cord injury on daily energy expenditure.
Alterations in temporal/spatial distribution of GFAP- and vimentin-positive astrocytes after spinal cord contusion with the New York University spinal cord injury device.	Astrocytes become reactive as a result of various types of lesions and upregulate 2 intermediate filaments, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and the developmentally regulated protein vimentin. Young female Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a spinal cord contusion at segment T10 using the New York University injury device. Animals were killed at 1, 2, 7, 14, and 30 days postinjury. Horizontal spinal cord sections spanning segments T7-T13 were assessed with antibodies to both intermediate filament proteins. The number of gray matter GFAP-positive astrocytes increased by 2 days postinjury, with segments adjacent (proximal) to the injury site showing greater responses than areas several segments away (distal). By 30 days following injury, astroglial cell numbers returned to normal levels. Vimentin-positive astrocytes also showed a graded proximal/distal response by 2 days following injury. Proximal regions remained significantly higher at 30 days following injury than control animals. Rostral/caudal changes were also evident, with regions caudal to the injury showing significantly higher numbers of vimentin positive astrocytes than those rostral, indicating that gray matter areas caudal to spinal cord injury may undergo more stress following spinal cord injury.
Effect of spinal cord transection on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the cord.	Spinal cord injury can lead to an exaggeration of transmission through spinal pathways, resulting in muscle spasticity, chronic pain, and abnormal control of blood pressure and bladder function. These conditions are mediated, in part, by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on spinal neurons, but the effects of cord injury on the expression or function of these receptors is unknown. Therefore, antibodies to the NMDA-R1 receptor subunit and binding of [3H]MK-801 were used to assess NMDA receptors in the spinal cord. Receptor density in rats with intact spinal cords was compared to that in rats 1 and 2 weeks after spinal cord transection (SCT) at the mid-thoracic level. At 1 and 2 weeks after SCT, [3H]MK-801 binding was reduced in most laminae in cord segments caudal to the injury, whereas no decrease in amount of R1 subunit immunoreactivity was observed. No significant changes in [3H]MK-801 binding and NMDA-R1 immunoreactivity could be seen rostral to the transection. Since [3H]MK-801 binding requires an open ion channel, the discrepancy between [3H]MK-801 binding and immunocytochemistry may indicate a loss of functional receptors without a consistent change in their total number. Therefore, the exaggerated reflexes that are well established in rats 2 weeks after cord injury must be mediated by a mechanism that withstands attenuation of NMDA receptor function.
