Reovirus prolongs survival and reduces the frequency of spinal and leptomeningeal metastases from medulloblastoma.	Medulloblastoma (MB), the most common pediatric brain tumor, is a highly malignant disease with a 5-year survival rate of only 60%. Tumor cells invade surrounding tissue and disseminate through cerebral spinal fluid, making treatment difficult. Human reovirus type 3 exploits an activated Ras pathway in tumor cells to support productive infection as an oncolytic virus. Here, we examined the ability of human reovirus to kill MB cells lines and surgical specimens in vitro and inhibit tumor growth/metastases in vivo. Most human MB cell lines tested (five of seven = 71.4%), two MB cell lines derived from spontaneously arising tumors in Patched-1(+/-) mice (two of two = 100%) and three MB primary cultures derived from surgical specimens, were susceptible to reovirus infection. Reovirus was internalized and transcribed in both susceptible and resistant cell lines. However, viral protein synthesis was restricted to cell lines with higher levels of activated Ras, suggesting that Ras plays a critical role in reovirus oncolysis in MB. Using an in vivo Daoy orthotopic animal model, we found that a single i.t. injection of reovirus dramatically prolonged survival compared with controls (160 versus 70 days, respectively; P = 0.0003). Repeating this experiment with GFP-labeled Daoy cells and multiple i.t. administrations of reovirus, we again found prolonged survival and a dramatic reduction in spinal and leptomeningeal metastases (66.7% in control injections versus 0.0% in the live virus group). These data suggest that this oncolytic virus may be a potentially effective novel therapy against human MB. Its ability to reduce metastases to the spinal cord could allow a reduction in the dose/field of total neuroaxis cerebral-spinal radiotherapy currently used to treat/prevent cerebral spinal fluid dissemination.
Remission induction with daunomycin, vincristine, and prednisone in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia.	Prednisone plus vincristine plus daunomycin induced complete remission in nine adults with acute lymphocytic leukemia. The median duration of complete remission will be between 14 and 18 months, with three patients remaining in hematological remission at 10+, 11+, and 18+ months. The median survival will be between 19 and 23 months, with all patients surviving at least one year. This remission induction regimen produced rapid complete remission in adult acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) with minimal toxicity, and could be administered predominantly on an outpatient basis.
Presymptomatic central nervous system therapy in previously untreated childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: comparison of 1800 rad and 2400 rad. A report for Children's Cancer Study Group.	The Children's Cancer Study Group has organised two therapeutic clinical trials designed to evaluate the efficacy of various types and doses of CNS prophylaxis in the treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Of 478 previously untreated patients who subsequently achieved an initial marrow remission, 299 were randomised to receive 2400 rad craniospinal radiation therapy (RT) or 2400 rad cranial RT plus intrathecal methotrexate (i.t. MTX) while the remaining 179 patients were randomised between the same two regimens using a radiation dose of 1800 rad. All patients received identical induction and maintenance chemotherapy. Comparison of the two studies indicated that reduction of the dose of CNS radiation from 2400 rad to 1800 rad did not result in a significant increase in the frequency of CNS relapse, bone marrow relapse, or death. Moreover, no significant differences were observed when analyses were done within prognostic risk groups. Randomised trials with RT doses lower than 1800 rad or with i.t. chemotherapy alone should be considered to determine the most effective and least toxic forms of CNS prophylaxis.
Are dermoid and epidermoid tumors preventable complications of myelomeningocele repair?	Dermoids and epidermoids found at reoperation for tethered cord following myelomeningocele repair have been attributed to inadequate excision of cutaneous elements and 'implantation' in the repair site. This study reviews the pathological findings in excised placodes from fresh myelomeningoceles and specimens from tethered cord release and concludes that hamartomatous lesions are a common feature of the myelodysplastic sequence.
