Comparison of intermittent catheterization and supravesical diversion in children with meningomyelocele.	A comparison in terms of renal preservation as evidenced by urography is made between children with meningomyelocele on intermittent catheterization and children who had undergone diversion. Followup in the former group is only 2 1/2 years but at this time those patients on catheterization are doing as well and probably better than children who had undergone diversion and the quality of life for them is better.
The role of intermittent catheterization in the management of children with myelomeningocele.	Of 114 patients with myelomeningocele 44 (40 per cent) have no significant urologic disability. Intermittent catheterization has been used in 51 children and was helpful in 13 (26 per cent). Cystometrograms and urethral pressure profiles have been useful as predictive parameters. Causes of intermittent catheterization failures are discussed.
Oxybutynin chloride combined with intermittent clean catheterization in the treatment of myelomeningocele patients.	Oxybutynin chloride has been with intermittent clean catheterization to achieve urinary continence in 21 of 25 myelomeningocele patients (84 per cent success rate). The regimen, results, problems and implications of this new method of treatment are discussed.
Young people with spina bifida: transfer from paediatric to adult health care.	An expectation of health care for young people with disability is that quality coordinated care continues to be available as they pass from the paediatric to the adult health care system. While individual clinicians provide this service well, the widespread absence of coordinated multidisciplinary care for young people with spina bifida in the adult health care system is a major deficiency. This paper describes the planning and implementation that underpinned the transfer of 10 young people with spina bifida from a paediatric to an adult service. The range of structural, financial and 'cultural' barriers that need to be overcome before patients can be successfully transferred is highlighted; lessons learned from this model may serve to facilitate the development of other transfer services.
