Teriparatide (biosynthetic human parathyroid hormone 1-34): a new paradigm in the treatment of osteoporosis.	The ideal treatment of osteoporosis should preferably prevent fractures through normalization of bone mass and bone micro-architecture. Biosynthetic human parathyroid hormone 1-34 (teriparatide) was recently approved in the EU and the USA as the first anabolic treatment of osteoporosis. The effects of teriparatide are mediated by the G-protein-dependent, parathyroid hormone receptor-1 in the cell membrane. The binding of the ligand to the receptor activates adenylate cyclase and a number of phospholipases (A, C, and D) and increases intracellular levels of cAMP and calcium. Intermittent teriparatide increases the number of osteoblasts and bone formation by activation of pre-existing osteoblasts, increased differentiation of lining cells, and reduced osteoblast apoptosis. Anabolic effects of teriparatide on bone have been demonstrated in several species. It increases bone mass, structural integrity, bone diameter, and bone strength. Clinical efficacy was demonstrated in a randomized study comprising 1637 post-menopausal women with osteoporosis showing a 65% and 35% reduction of the relative risk of vertebral and appendicular fractures, respectively, during 18 months of treatment. Moreover, bone mineral density in the lumbar spine and hip increased by 9.7% and 2.6%, respectively. Similar effects on bone mineral density have been reported in men with osteoporosis and in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis, however, fracture data are limited in these groups. Direct comparison with alendronate revealed that teriparatide has a more pronounced effect on bone mineral density. Teriparatide should be used in combination with calcium plus vitamin D, and may be combined with hormonal replacement therapy. In contrast, alendronate attenuates the effect of teriparatide. The efficacy of other combinations remains uncertain. After termination of teriparatide, bone mineral density of the lumbar spine is reduced by approximately 2-3% after 2 1/2 years. This decrease is prevented by treatment with bisphosphonates. The most frequent adverse effects with teriparatide are nausea, headache, dizziness, and leg cramps, however, only the latter two differed significantly between the groups receiving teriparatide 20 microg/day and placebo. In the pivotal clinical study, reduced dosage or termination of therapy due to hypercalcaemia was necessary in 3% and 0.2%, respectively. In a rat toxicology study, in which teriparatide was administered in high dosages for an extended period of time, osteosarcoma was seen in a significant number of animals. However, none of the approximately 2800 patients in clinical trials has developed osteosarcoma. Teriparatide constitutes a break-through in the treatment of severe osteoporosis, although a number of issues about the optimal use of teriparatide remains unsettled. The published data provide proof of concept on anabolic therapy which changes several paradigms of bone physiology. Other parathyroid hormone analogues are being investigated in clinical trials and the development of non-peptide, small molecules targeted at the parathyroid hormone receptor may be envisaged.
Percutaneous vertebroplasty immediately relieves pain of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures and prevents prolonged immobilization of patients.	To assess the immediate efficacy of percutaneous vertebroplasty (PVP) in relief of pain and improving mobility of patients with vertebral compression fractures (VCF) secondary to osteoporosis, 205 cases (175 patients) underwent 250 percutaneous injections of polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA; unilateral, 247 levels; bilateral, 3 levels) into vertebrae under CT and fluoroscopic guidance for 34 months. Patients were prospectively asked to quantify their pain on a visual analog scale (VAS) before and a day after PVP. The interval to mobilization was recorded in those who were immobilized because of pain and/or bed-rest therapy (115 cases). PVP was technically successful in all patients, with three cases of minimal complications. The mean VAS score available for 196 cases was improved from 7.22+/-1.89 (range, 3-10) to 2.07+/-1.19 (range, 0-10) by PVP. Ninety-four of 115 immobilized cases (81.7%) were mobile by 24 h after PVP, and the mean value was 1.9+/-2.8 days. The incidence of recurrent and new fractures was 15.6% in 4-25 months (mean, 15.3 months). PVP is a safe and effective treatment for relieving the pain associated with osteoporotic VCF and strengthening the vertebrae, avoiding refractures. This therapy leads to early mobilization and avoidance of the dangers of conservative therapy of bed-rest.
Comparison of the analgesic efficacy of pamidronate and synthetic human calcitonin in osteoporotic vertebral fractures: a double-blind controlled study.	Our aim was to compare the analgesic efficacy of pamidronate (PAM) and synthetic human calcitonin (CT) in intravenous infusion for recent painful benign vertebral compression in a randomised prospective double-blind study. Twenty-seven patients aged 49-85 years with painful benign non-traumatic vertebral compression were included in the study. They received either PAM (1 mg/kg) or synthetic human CT (1.5 mg) as an intravenous infusion. Pain and functional disability were evaluated before infusion, and 4 and 30 days afterwards. The pain score assessed on a visual analogue scale at day 0 was 5.94+/-2.47 in patients treated with PAM and 6.27+/-2.50 in patients treated with CT (p=0.74); at day 4, 4.8+/-2.80 with PAM vs 3.9+/-2.68 with CT (p=0.37); and at day 30, 3.6+/-3.13 with PAM vs 3.10+/-2.76 with CT (p=0.70). Spinal function scores were 18.21+/-3.17 at day 0 in patients treated with PAM vs 17.23+/-4.42 in patients treated with CT (p=0.69) and at day 30, 13.7+/-5.36 with PAM vs 12.33+/-3.22 with CT (p=0.68). We found no advantage of PAM over CT in a single intravenous infusion for the treatment of painful recent benign vertebral compression. Since CT is ten times less costly, its use should be preferred.
Outcomes of patients receiving long-term corticosteroid therapy who undergo percutaneous vertebroplasty.	The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and rate of complications in patients undergoing percutaneous vertebroplasty (PVP) for vertebral compression fractures as a result of secondary osteoporosis caused by long-term corticosteroid use compared with patients with primary osteoporosis treated with PVP.
Nationwide survey of current medical practices for hospitalized elderly with spine fractures in Japan.	The status of hip fracture incidence and treatment is well known through nationwide surveys in Japan. However, there have been no similar studies on spine fractures. Therefore, we investigated current medical practices for them.
Glucocorticoid-induced diabetes mellitus is a risk for vertebral fracture during glucocorticoid treatment.	High-dose glucocorticoid was associated with new-onset diabetes mellitus (NODM) with a high prevalence during the early treatment period. Glucocorticoid-induced NODM was an independent risk factor for clinical vertebral fracture during high-dose glucocorticoid treatment in Chiba-Shimoshizu Rheumatic Cohort of 20 years in Japan.
Measurement of implant deployment and related forces in kyphoplasty by percutaneous approach.	The treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures using a transpedicular approach and cement injection has grown significantly over the last two decades.
Effect of nandrolone decanoate and 1-alpha-hydroxy-calciferol on patients with vertebral osteoporotic collapse. A double-blind clinical trial.	Eighty-eight postmenopausal women with at least one vertebral collapse were randomly assigned to two groups of 44 patients each. All patients were treated for a period of 12 months with 50 mg of nandrolone decanoate every 3 weeks or 1 microgram of 1-alpha-hydroxy-calciferol daily. Both groups received an identical placebo of the inactive drug. Pain intensity was significantly decreased in the nandrolone group and mobility was improved. Patients treated with vitamin D metabolite had also a beneficial but less obvious clinical result. Bone mineral measurements showed an increase of 5% in the nandrolone decanoate group, but a 2.5% decrease in the vitamin D metabolite group. Biochemical results showed a significant hypercalciuric effect of vitamin D metabolite, while nandrolone decanoate caused a reduction in calcium/creatinine excretion. No difference in serum lipids was found during the annual treatment in both groups. It is concluded that nandrolone decanoate has a beneficial effect in clinical symptoms, bone mineral density and biochemical parameters in patients with established osteoporotic vertebral fractures.
Drug therapy for vertebral fractures in osteoporosis: evidence that decreases in bone turnover and increases in bone mass both determine antifracture efficacy.	The conventional belief is that osteopenia is the major cause of vertebral fractures and that drug therapy must induce a substantial increase in vertebral bone mineral density (BMD) before the vertebral fracture rate (VFR) is decreased. We hypothesized that the increased bone turnover in osteoporosis also is a major cause of vertebral fractures because of its adverse effects on the microarchitecture of the vertebrae and, thus, that normalization of bone turnover by antiresorptive drug therapy will decrease VFR substantially. This hypothesis is supported by our reanalysis of data from previous clinical trials with fluoride and with estrogen therapy in postmenopausal osteoporotic women. As evident from computer-generated three-dimensional graphic plots of data from osteoporotic women treated with placebo, VFR increased as bone turnover increased or as vertebral BMD decreased. Estrogen therapy decreased the bone turnover rate to normal and eliminated the relationship between VFR and bone turnover, whereas the inverse relationship with vertebral BMD persisted. In osteoporotic women treated with fluoride, VFR decreased as vertebral BMD increased, provided that patients with high (toxic) serum fluoride levels were not included in the comparison. Over the range of values in the data set, increased vertebral BMD and decreased bone turnover had approximately equal effects in decreasing VFR. Thus, both formation-stimulating and resorption-inhibiting drugs can substantially decrease VFR but do so by different mechanisms.
