Axial variation in the threespine stickleback: relationship to Hox gene expression.	Despite mounting evidence that key developmental regulator genes are involved in significant macroevolutionary changes, there have been few studies demonstrating the functional significance of variation in such genes for the generation of population-level variation. In this study we examined and compared the expression domains of three Hox gene homeobox sequences in embryos derived from two morphologically distinct populations of the threespine stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus. We found within-population variation in the location of anterior limits, particularly in more 5' Hox genes whose anterior expression domains showed graded distributions of transcripts over several somites. However, despite considerable and statistically significant differences in the anteroposterior pattern of the axial and median skeletons between the two stickleback populations, this phenotypic variation was not found to be correlated with any of the variation in Hox gene expression. The possible functional significance of the combinatorial Hox code in fish species is discussed with respect to the buffering of development in fluctuating environments, and it is argued that population and quantitative genetic perspectives should also be taken into account in considering the function and evolution of Hox genes.
Expression patterns of threespine stickleback hox genes and insights into the evolution of the vertebrate body axis.	Understanding the patterning mechanisms that operate to promote differentiation of individual segments along the main body axis is an important goal of both developmental and evolutionary biology. In order to gain a better insight into the role of Hox genes in generating diversity of axial plans seen in vertebrates, we have cloned 11 homeobox sequences from an acanthopterygian teleost, the threespine stickleback, and analyzed the expression of 7 of these during embryogenesis. Transcripts are observed in a variety of tissues, including the neural tube, paraxial mesoderm, lateral plate mesoderm, pectoral fins, pronephric ducts, as well as some neural crest-derived structures. Anterior limits of expression in the central nervous system and paraxial mesoderm exhibited both similarities and differences to those of mouse and zebrafish homologs. In both stickleback and zebrafish embryos expression limits within the paraxial mesoderm were detected only within the trunk region in which ribs are attached to all vertebrae. The finding of this pattern in two divergent teleosts as well as in various tetrapod species supports the hypothesis that a Hox precode was present prior to the divergence of ray-finned and lobe-finned fishes and was subsequently used to generate different types of vertebrae in tetrapods. We also describe a dynamic pattern of expression of several stickleback Hox genes associated with the development of the caudal paraxial mesoderm, which suggests uncoupling of the process of segmentation from segmental identity determination. We propose that in fishes the patterning of the tail region is under the control of a separate mechanism from the trunk, which utilizes Hox genes in a different manner.
Sequential activation of three myogenic regulatory genes during somite morphogenesis in quail embryos.	We report the cloning of two new quail myogenic cDNAs, quail myogenic factor 2 (qmf2) and qmf3, which encode helix-loop-helix proteins homologous to mammalian myogenic factors myogenin and myf-5. In situ hybridization has been used to investigate the developmental expression of qmf2 and qmf3, as well as qmf1, the quail homologue to mammalian MyoD1, during the formation of the brachial somites. These studies show that qmf1 and qmf3 are activated sequentially in medially localized somite cells, immediately following somite formation but prior to myotome formation. qmf1, qmf2, and qmf3 are expressed in the myotome of compartmentalized somites. These findings suggest that determination of the myogenic cell lineage in quail somites is a progressive process controlled by influences of the neural tube on the expression of the qmf regulatory genes in newly forming somites.
The teratogenic effects of 5-fluoro-2-desoxyuridine (F.U.D.R.) on the Wistar rat fetus with particular reference to cleft palate.	The teratogenic effects of 5-fluoro-2-desoxyuridine on Wistar rat fetuses were studied macroscopically, microscopically and ultrastructurally. In no case did palatal shelf elevation occur, and a palatal shelf elevating force could not be demonstrated in freshly-removed fetuses. The shelves, like the connective tissues generally, showed clear evidence of depressed mucopolysaccharide synthesis. The shelves eventually ossified in the vertical position, and in some cases their free edges fused with the lateral wall of the oral cavity (palato-oral fusion). The results were consistent with the mucopolysaccharide-turgor hypothesis advanced by the author in a previous paper to account for normal shelf elevation. Phocomelia, brain and limb bud haemorrhages, gross subcutaneous oedema, hyperextension of the cranial base, fused vertebrae, detached epithelia, bizarre brain abnormalities (including some remarkable attempts at neural reconstitution) and growth and ossification of the mandible in the virtual absence of Meckel's cartilages were also noted in these fetuses.
Nuchal translucency and ductus venosus blood flow as early sonographic markers of thanatophoric dysplasia. A case report.	Thanatophoric dysplasia (TD) is the most frequent form of lethal osteochondrodysplasias. Prenatal diagnosis is commonly accomplished in the second-trimester scan, but occasionally TD may not be clearly distinguished from the other osteochondrodysplasias, with consequent important prognostic implications. However, in order to confirm the diagnosis, complementary radiological, pathological and molecular studies are mandatory. We present a case of TD diagnosed in the late first trimester with the contribution of nuchal translucency combined with ductus venosus blood flow assessment.
Diprosopus associated with neural tube defect and facial cleft in the first trimester.	We report a case of diprosopus presenting with increased nuchal translucency of 5.3 mm at 14 weeks of gestation. Ultrasonographically, the fetus presented with micrognathia, anterior indentation of the cephalic pole, abnormal cerebral hemispheres with a cystic 4th ventricle and angulation of the spine. The fetal karyotype was normal (46,XX). Following termination of pregnancy, postmortem examination established the diagnosis of diprosopus tetraophthalmus with facial cleft of the 2 faces.
Klippel-Feil syndrome: clinical features and current understanding of etiology.	Klippel-Feil syndrome occurs in a heterogeneous group of patients unified only by the presence of a congenital defect in the formation or segmentation of the cervical spine. Numerous associated abnormalities of other organ systems may be present. This heterogeneity requires comprehensive evaluation of all patients and treatment regimes that can vary from modification of activities to extensive spinal surgeries. This also has made delineation of diagnostic and prognostic classes difficult and has complicated elucidation of the genetic etiology of the syndrome. Furthermore, it is unclear whether Klippel-Feil syndrome is a discrete entity, or if it is one point on a spectrum of congenital spinal deformities. Pedigree analysis has identified a human genetic locus for the disease. Mouse models suggest members of the PAX gene family and Notch signaling pathway as possible etiologic candidates. Only by identifying the link between the genetic etiology and the phenotypic pathoanatomy of Klippel-Feil syndrome will we be able to rationalize the heterogeneity of the syndrome.
Cytoplasmic impact on cross-genus cloned fish derived from transgenic common carp (Cyprinus carpio) nuclei and goldfish (Carassius auratus) enucleated eggs.	In previous studies of nuclear transplantation, most cloned animals were obtained by intraspecies nuclear transfer and are phenotypically identical to their nuclear donors; furthermore, there was no further report on successful fish cloning since the report of cloned zebrafish. Here we report the production of seven cross-genus cloned fish by transferring nuclei from transgenic common carp into enucleated eggs of goldfish. Nuclear genomes of the cloned fish were exclusively derived from the nuclear donor species, common carp, whereas the mitochondrial DNA from the donor carp gradually disappeared during the development of nuclear transfer (NT) embryos. The somite development process and somite number of nuclear transplants were consistent with the recipient species, goldfish, rather than the nuclear donor species, common carp. This resulted in a long-lasting effect on the vertebral numbers of the cloned fish, which belonged to the range of goldfish. These demonstrate that fish egg cytoplasm not only can support the development driven by transplanted nuclei from a distantly related species at the genus scale but also can modulate development of the nuclear transplants.
Aortic carboxypeptidase-like protein is expressed in collagen-rich tissues during mouse embryonic development.	Aortic carboxypeptidase-like protein (ACLP) was originally identified in vascular smooth muscle cells and contains discoidin and catalytically inactive metallocarboxypeptidase domains. ACLP is a secreted protein that associates with the extracellular matrix and is essential for abdominal wall development and contributes to dermal wound healing. Because of these developmental and adult phenotypes, we examined the expression of ACLP by immunohistochemistry throughout mouse embryonic development. ACLP was not detected in 7.5 days post-coitum (dpc) embryos, however at 9.5 dpc low levels of expression were detected in the somites and dorsal aorta. Expression was detected in both the yolk sac and embryonic vasculature at 10.5d pc. ACLP expression increased in both large and small blood vessels at 11.5 and 13.5 dpc and intense expression was detected within the vascular smooth muscle layer in 16.5 dpc embryos. At later developmental time points, discrete areas of ACLP expression were detected in the mesenchymal cells in the dermal layer, developing skeletal structures, connective tissue, and in the umbilical ring and vessels. The predominance of ACLP immunoreactivity localized with collagen-rich regions including tendons and basement membranes. Overall, the developmental expression pattern is consistent with a regulatory or structural role in the abdominal wall, vasculature, and dermis.
Fetal spine ossification: the gender and individual differences illustrated by ultrasonography.	The spatial and temporal pattern of manifestation of ossification nuclei of the spinal column in fetal life have been well established by histologic and radiologic studies. Sonographic evaluation of the fetal spine depends on visualization of the ossification centers, but the sequence of development of ossification centers in the vertebral column obtained by embryologists and sonographers and radiology are conflicting. We carried out a longitudinal study to establish the ultrasonographic appearance and timing of development of primary ossification centers of the fetal spine in the first and second trimesters of pregnancy. A total of 80 mothers were evaluated during their pregnancy with two echographic controls; in the first trimester, the spine length was measured and, in the second trimester of pregnancy, the timing of ossification of the bodies and neural arches of sacral vertebrae and the difference in appearance between the female and male genders were evaluated. Spinal length measurements obtained in the first trimester and percentage of detection of sacral vertebral structures increased progressively with a regular pattern in relation to gestational age. Spinal length at first ultrasound examination was slightly correlated with time of appearance of sacral bodies and arches. Ossification timing was significantly earlier in females than in males. The study has attempted to improve our understanding of the sonographic detection of the spinal ossification. Data presented give some further information on the stages of appearance of sacral vertebrae body centers during intrauterine development. Differences between genders and interindividual variations in ossification timing were observed at a very early stage of development. This could be of value when fetal growth is evaluated. Moreover, further knowledge of spinal development may be useful for early diagnosis of spinal abnormalities and for fetal biometrics.
From somites to vertebral column.	We report on the development and differentiation of the somites with respect to vertebral column formation in avian and human embryos. The somites, which are made up of different compartments, establish a segmental pattern which becomes transferred to adjacent structures such as the peripheral nervous system and the vascular system. Each vertebra arises from three sclerotomic areas. The paired lateral ones give rise to the neural arches, the ribs and the pedicles of vertebrae, whereas the vertebral body and the intervening disc develop from the axially-located mesenchyme. The neural arches originate from the caudal half of one somite, whereas the vertebral body is made up of the adjacent parts of two somites. Interactions between notochord and axial mesenchyme are a prerequisite for the normal development of vertebral bodies and intervening discs. The neural arches form a frame for the neural tube and spinal ganglia. The boundary between head and vertebral column is located between the 5th and 6th somites. In the human embryo, proatlas, body of the atlas segment, and body of the axis fuse to form the axis.
Growth differentiation factor 11 signals through the transforming growth factor-beta receptor ALK5 to regionalize the anterior-posterior axis.	Growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11) contributes to regionalize the mouse embryo along its anterior-posterior axis by regulating the expression of Hox genes. The identity of the receptors that mediate GDF11 signalling during embryogenesis remains unclear. Here, we show that GDF11 can interact with type I receptors ALK4, ALK5 and ALK7, but predominantly uses ALK4 and ALK5 to activate a Smad3-dependent reporter gene. Alk5 mutant embryos showed malformations in anterior-posterior patterning, including the lack of expression of the posterior determinant Hoxc10, that resemble defects found in Gdf11-null mutants. A heterozygous mutation in Alk5, but not in Alk4 or Alk7, potentiated Gdf11(-/-)-like phenotypes in vertebral, kidney and palate development in an Acvr2b(-/-) background, indicating a genetic interaction between the two receptor genes. Thus, the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) receptor ALK5, which until now has only been associated with the biological functions of TGF-beta1 to TGF-beta3 proteins, mediates GDF11 signalling during embryogenesis.
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) acts as a downstream mediator of TGF-beta1 to induce mesenchymal cell condensation.	Mesenchymal cell (MC) condensation or the aggregation of MCs precedes chondrocyte differentiation and is required for subsequent cartilage formation during endochondral ossification. In this study, we used micromass cultures of C3H10T1/2 cells as an in vitro model system for studying MC condensation and the events important for this process. Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) served as the initiator of MC condensation in our model system and we were interested in determining whether CTGF functions as a downstream mediator of TGF-beta1. CTGF is a matricellular protein that has been found to be expressed in MC condensations and in the perichondrium. Micromass cultures of C3H10T1/2 cells condensed under TGF-beta1 stimulation concomitant with dramatic up-regulation of CTGF mRNA and protein levels. CTGF silencing by either CTGF siRNA or CTGF antisense oligonucleotide approaches showed that TGF-beta1-induced condensation was CTGF dependent. Furthermore, silencing of CTGF expression resulted in significant reductions in cell proliferation and migration, events that are crucial during MC condensation. In addition, up-regulation of Fibronectin (FN) and suppression of Sox9 expression by TGF-beta1 was also found to be mediated by CTGF. Immunofluorescence of developing mouse vertebrae showed that CTGF, TGF-beta1 and FN were co-expressed in condensations of MCs, while Sox9 expression was low at this stage. During subsequent chondrogenesis, Sox9 expression was high in chondrocytes while CTGF expression was limited to the perichondrium. Thus, CTGF is an essential downstream mediator of TGF-beta1-induced MC condensation through its effects on cell proliferation and migration. CTGF is also involved in up-regulating FN and suppressing Sox9 expression during TGF-beta1 induced MC condensation.
Contribution of three-dimensional computed tomography in the assessment of fetal skeletal dysplasia.	To compare the diagnostic accuracy of two-dimensional (2D) ultrasound and three-dimensional (3D) computed tomography (CT) for the diagnosis of fetal skeletal anomalies.
Lectin binding pattern in the embryonal and early fetal human vertebral column.	Paraffin sections from vertebral columns of ten human embryos and fetuses ranging from stage 16 to the 12th week were stained with the FITC-coupled lectins PNA, RCA I, Con A and WGA in order to investigate changes in carbohydrate-binding sites during vertebral development. PNA revealed a specific binding site in the vertebral body blastema in the precartilaginous stage of development. Beginning with the 25-mm CRL embryo, PNA-binding sites occurred in the developing fibrous annulus and the inner zone of the intervertebral discs. The first binding sites for RCA I were seen in the extracellular matrix of vertebral bodies during the cartilaginous stage of vertebral development. During early ossification of the vertebrae, staining for RCA I-binding sites in the cytoplasm of the chondrocytes and the area around the future cartilaginous end-plates was observed. Con A bound to the chondrocyte cytoplasm, and also very strongly to notochordal cells in all developmental stages examined. WGA-binding sites appeared simultaneously with cartilage formation. Connective tissue components, e.g. ligaments, were diffusely stained by WGA. Also this lectin showed an affinity for vertebral body chondrocytes. We discuss the biochemical aspects of these lectin-binding sites, and their possible roles in the differentiation process of the human vertebral column. The results of this first lectin histochemical study on human vertebral development are compared with related results in other species.
Comparative immunolocalisation of perlecan, heparan sulphate, fibroblast growth factor-18, and fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 and their prospective roles in chondrogenic and osteogenic development of the human foetal spine.	A comparative immunolocalisation study of perlecan, HS, FGF-18 and FGFR-3 in the 12-20-week gestational age human foetal spine was undertaken to identify spatiotemporal associations between these components to provide insights into prospective roles in spinal development.
A col10a1:nlGFP transgenic line displays putative osteoblast precursors at the medaka notochordal sheath prior to mineralization.	In teleosts, such as medaka, ossification of the vertebral column starts with the mineralization of the notochordal sheath in a segmental pattern. This establishes the chordal centrum, which serves as the basis for further ossifications by sclerotome derived osteoblasts generating the vertebral body. So far, it is unclear which cells produce the notochordal sheath and how a segmental pattern of mineralization is established in teleosts. Here, we use a transgenic medaka line that expresses nlGFP under the control of the col10a1 promoter for in vivo analysis of vertebral body formation. We show that col10a1:nlGFP expression recapitulates endogenous col10a1 expression. In the axial skeleton, col10a1:nlGFP cells appear prior to the mineralization of the notochordal sheath in a segmental pattern. These cells remain on the outer surface of the chordal centra during mineralization as well as subsequent perichordal ossification of the vertebral bodies. Using twist1a1:dsRed and osx:mCherry transgenic lines we show that a subset of col10a1:nlGFP cells is derived from sclerotomal precursors and differentiates into future osteoblasts. For the first time, this shows a segmental occurrence of putative osteoblast precursors in the vertebral centra prior to ossification of the notochordal sheath. This opens the possibility that sclerotome derived cells in teleosts are implicated in the establishment of the mineralized vertebral column in a similar manner as previously described for tetrapods.
Abdominal ultrasound examination of the first-trimester fetus.	The first-trimester fetus can now be comprehensively studied with ultrasound. Various biometric measurements correlate well with gestational age, such as crown-rump length (r2 = 0.938) and cranial apex to ear diameter (r2 = 0.983). On the other hand, yolk sac diameter (r2 = 0.129) and abdominal perimeter (r2 = 0.58) correlate poorly with gestational age. By 10 weeks' gestation, kidneys can be visualized in 60% of cases; 98% will be seen at 11 weeks; and 100% of cases will be visible by 12 weeks. The bladder appears later, and by 12 weeks' gestation this organ can be identified in 50% of cases. It is likely that renal agenesis can be diagnosed (or excluded) reliably in the first trimester. With improving technology, prenatal diagnosis of some fetal anomalies is now possible in the first trimester.
Induction of the mesoderm and primordial germ cells by the endoderm of Pleurodeles waltlii (Amphibia, Urodele): development during gastrulation]	Blastulae ectoderm is combined with dorsal or ventral endoderm from blastulae, gastrulae and early neurulae. In vitro culture reveals the presence of different mesodermal structures whose nature is connected with the endoderm origin site. Primordial germ cells differentiate essentially in the recombinates including ventral endoderm. The inducing capacity of this latter concerning germ cells is maximum at the beginning of gastrulation, then decreases during it and finally disappears at the onset of neurulation.
The embryology of spinal dysraphism.	The theories of abnormal embryogenesis suggested as explanations for the various forms of SBA and occult spinal dysraphism appear in some instances too all encompassing, as in Gardner's hydrodynamic theory or Padget's neuroschisis theory, or too limited, as in the theory of arrested development proposed by Daniel and Strich for the ACM, or just too speculative in many cases. The observation of a completed defect does not allow one to venture backwards in development to a specific time and cause with any accuracy. Perhaps several different causes striking different tissues at different times can set up a series of aberrations that lead to morphologically similar mature anomalies. The ability of developmental processes to heal themselves, as shown experimentally, may obscure the true mechanism and timing of occurrence although the final morphological expression may be dramatic. Since the study of human embryogenesis in the experimental laboratory is ethically unacceptable although technically feasible, the elucidation of the mechanisms of these neural defects will be long in coming.
Histochemistry of the developing notochord, perichordal sheath and vertebrae in Danforth's short-tail (sd) and normal C57BL/6 mice.	The development of the notochord, perichordal sheath and vertebrae was studied in C57BL/6 and Danforth's short-tail (Sd) mutant mice on days 9-14 of gestation, using histochemical stains to detect possible extracellular matrix (ECM) components or precursors. Stains used were periodic-acid Schiff (PAS) after diastase treatment (glycoproteins, neutral polysaccharides) and alcian blue (glycosaminoglycans). Embryos from C57BL/6Sfd mice were analyzed to establish a normal baseline. In 9-day normal (C57BL/6Sfd; +/+) embryos the notochord is an uninterrupted structure and contains PAS-positive, diastase-resistant granules, whereas in abnormals (Sd/+; Sd/Sd) the notochord is discontinuous and exhibits few, if any, granules. A notochordal sheath is present in normal and abnormal embryos on day 10 and stains with PAS, alcian blue and aniline blue; subsequently, it increases in thickness in normal, but not defective, embryos. In normal embryos, the notochord shows dilatations, and notochordal cells become vacuolated from 13 to 14 days. In contrast, the notochordal fragments of abnormals never develop dilatations, nor do the cells vacuolate. Organization of mesenchymal cells into specific patterns is observed initially in 11-day normal embryos; further mesenchymal organization into vertebral and intervertebral disc analgen occurs during days 13-14. In abnormal embryos, disturbance of mesenchymal cell organization is evident as early as day 11, and by day 12 aberrant patterns of organization have emerged. Mesenchymal cells of abnormal embryos also lack the typical distribution of PAS-positive, diastase-resistant granules that occurs in normal speciments. The possible relationship of these granules in notochordal and mesenchymal cells to ECM materials is discussed.
The adaptive mandible: a product of the relative osteo-neural growth.	The growth interrelation existing between the developing brain and its bony case (with the brain representing the morphogenetically determining structure to the shape and size of which the neurocranial bony envelope is adapted) is to be conceived just as a special case of a general phenomenon, the osteo-neural relation, which works throughout the entire vertebrate body. The morphological manifestations of this relation may be disclosed in the axial as well as in the appendicular skeleton. In the present communication the osteo-neural concept is applied to the morphogenesis of the facial skeleton with special reference to the mandible. The more or less elongated shape of the mandible in various species of vertebrates depends on the phylogenetically established higher or lesser degree of growth potentiality of the mandibular nerve. With the increasing size of the brain in the course of hominization the growth-in-length capability of the mandibular nerve is (compensatorily?) decreased with corresponding shortening of the mandible and with appearance of the chin. The proposed interpretation is supported by a model experiment. The highly characteristic shortening and angulation of the lower beak which may be produced experimentally in the chick embryo by a great variety of teratogens, is related most probably to the same underlying mechanism, viz., to the primary inhibition of the highly susceptible neural growth with the secondary adaptive deformity of the beak. Pierre-Robin-Syndrome (cleft palate and micrognathia) may be readily explained by a growth insufficiency of the palatine and mandibular nerves.
Relationship between the intervertebral foramina and the spinal nerves at the level of C4-T2 of the human fetal vertebral column.	In 80 human fetuses of both sexes, aged 4 to 7 months the spatiality of the intervertebral foramina and the area of the cross-section of the spinal nerves at the level of C4-T2 of the vertebral column were investigated. It was found that the narrowness of the intervertebral foramen is not related to the sex of fetus. The most probable places for such narrowness are intervertebral foramina C4-C5 and T1-T2 on the right side and C7-T1 on the left side.
Kinetics and differentiation of somite cells forming the vertebral column: studies on human and chick embryos.	We have studied the kinetics of somite cells with an antibody against proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA/cyclin) in human and chick embryos, and with the BrdU anti-BrdU method in chick embryos, to investigate whether the metameric pattern of the developing vertebral column can be explained by different proliferation rates. Furthermore we applied antibodies against differentiation markers of chondrogenic and myogenic cells of the somites in order to study the correlation between proliferation and differentiation. There are no principal differences in the proliferation pattern of the vertebral column between human and chick embryos. In all stages examined, the cell density is higher in the caudal sclerotome halves than in the cranial halves. Laterally, the caudal sclerotome halves, which give rise to the neural arches, are characterized by a higher proliferative activity than the cranial halves. Although there is a high variability, the labelling indices show significant differences between the two halves with both proliferation markers. With the onset of chondrogenic differentiation, only the perichondrial cells retain a high proliferation rate. During fetal development, the neural arches and their processes grow appositionally. Even at the earliest stages, there is practically no immunostaining for PCNA or BrdU in the desmin-positive myotome cells of human and chick embryos. Axially, a higher proliferation rate is found in the condensed mesenchyme of the anlagen of the intervertebral discs than in the anlagen of the vertebral bodies. During fetal development, cells at the borders between vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs proliferate, indicating appositional growth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Human PAX gene expression and development of the vertebral column.	The human gene HuP48 is a member of the PAX family of developmental control genes. Common to all members of this family is a highly conserved DNA sequence, the paired box sequence. In several species, paired box-containing genes function in normal embryonic morphogenesis. To investigate the possible involvement of PAX genes in the development of the human skeleton, the authors analyzed the expression of the paired box-containing gene, HuP48, in the fetal human vertebral column. In addition, the authors sequenced the paired box region of HuP48 from patients with congenital vertebral anomalies associated with Klippel-Feil syndrome. Using in situ hybridization, it was observed that HuP48 is expressed in a segmented pattern in the developing spine, specifically in the cells of the intervertebral disks of seven- to eight-week-old fetuses. At this stage in development, HuP48 expression appears to be restricted to the vertebral column. The pattern of expression of HuP48 indicates that it plays a role in establishing the segmented pattern of the vertebral column, perhaps by helping to establish and/or maintain, or both, a border between two different populations of cells, those of the prevertebrae and those of the intervertebral disks. Analysis of HuP48 paired box sequences in genomic DNA obtained from patients with congenital segmentation anomalies revealed no mutations in this highly conserved sequence.
Prenatal ultrasonographic diagnosis of congenital kyphosis due to anterior segmentation failure.	A few cases of congenital scoliosis due to segmentation failure have so far reported and the antenatal detection of pure congenital kyphosis without scoliosis due to segmentation failure has not been reported. We report the first prenatal identification using ultrasound of a fetus affected with pure congenital kyphosis due to anterior segmentation failure of the vertebral body between the second and third lumbar spine which was associated with ventriculomegaly, cleft palate, and hydramnios.
Sex, neural tube defects, and multisite closure of the human neural tube.	While neural tube defects (NTD) overall have a female sex bias, this does not apply to all sites along the neuraxis. The findings regarding sex and NTD in a series of midtrimester fetuses are reviewed, and then analysed in terms of the recent hypothesis that during embryogenesis of the human neural tube there are multiple closure sites, rather than a single zipping up process. Females more often than males tend to have craniorachischisis, spina bifida involving the thorax, the holoacrania form of anencephaly, anencephaly and cervical spina bifida and encephalocoeles, while males more often than females have spina bifida affecting the lower spine. Meroacrania occurs equally in both sexes. Other sources indicate that there is a male bias in frontoethmoidal encephalocoeles. Since sex seems to be a factor that is differentially associated with lack of closure of specific areas of the neural tube, it would seem to support the notion that there are multiple closure sites in the human neural tube. However, no association was found between a particular sex and either the type of NTD which have an isolated abnormality or those NTD associated with developmental abnormalities of other body systems.
