Identical twins with cervical myelopathy: a case for hereditary cervical spondylosis? Report of two cases and review of the literature.	Although degenerative cervical spondylosis is a common neurosurgical problem, not much has been published about the hereditary factors responsible for it. The authors report on a set of identical twins who presented to their service at a relatively young age with myelopathy due to degenerative cervical disc prolapse and who needed surgery. The early age of presentation and the fact that the patients were identical twins suggest a genetic element. The authors also review the available literature on the genetic factors in the causation of degenerative cervical spondylosis. To the best of their knowledge this is the first reported instance of identical twins with cervical myelopathy at a young age needing curative surgery.
Effects of retrograde gene transfer of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the rostral spinal cord of a compression model in rat.	Recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) is rare in humans and experimental animals. Following SCI in adults, changes in gene expression and the regulation of these genes are associated with the pathological development of the injury. High levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the injury area during the post-injury period contribute to enhanced neuroprotection and axonal regeneration. Intervention at the level of gene regulation has the potential to promote SCI repair. In this study, the injection of adenovirus-mediated BDNF in the lesion area (rostral spinal cord) up-regulated the expression of BDNF in the injury zone of a compression model in rat, thereby protecting neurons and enhancing behavioral function.
Enhanced p62 expression triggers concomitant autophagy and apoptosis in a rat chronic spinal cord compression model.	Chronic spinal cord compression is the result of mechanical pressure on the spinal cord, which in contrast to traumatic spinal cord injury, leads to slowly progressing nerve degeneration. These two types of spinal cord injuries may trigger similar mechanisms, including motoric nerve cell apoptosis and autophagy, however, depending on differences in the underlying injury severity, nerve reactions may predominantly involve the conservation of function or the initiation of functions for the removal of irreversibly damaged cells. p62 is a multidomain adapter protein, which is involved in apoptosis and cell survival as well as autophagy, and is a common component of protein aggregations in neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, a rat chronic spinal cord compression model was used, in which the spinal cord was progressively compressed for six weeks and then constantly compressed for another 10 weeks. As a result Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan locomotor scaling revealed a gradual score decrease until the 6th week followed by constant recovery until the 16th week after spinal cord compression was initiated. During the first eight weeks of the experiment, p62 and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) were increasingly expressed up to a constant plateau at 12-16 weeks, whereas caspase 3 exhibited a marginally enhanced expression at 8 weeks, however, reached a constant maximum peak 12-16 weeks after the beginning of spinal cord compression. It was hypothesized that, in the initial phase of spinal cord compression, enhanced p62 expression triggered NF-κB activity, directing the cell responses mainly to cell survival and autophagy, whereas following eight weeks of spinal cord compression, caspase 3 was additionally activated indicating cumulative elimination of irreversibly damaged nerve cells with highly activated autophagy.
