Ischemic spinal cord infarction in children without vertebral fracture.	Spinal cord infarction in children is a rare condition that is becoming more widely recognized. There are few reports in the pediatric literature characterizing etiology, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. The risk factors for pediatric ischemic spinal cord infarction include obstruction of blood flow associated with cardiovascular compromise or malformation, iatrogenic or traumatic vascular injury, cerebellar herniation, thrombotic or embolic disease, infection, and vasculitis. In many children, the cause of spinal cord ischemia in the absence of vertebral fracture is unknown. Imaging diagnosis of spinal cord ischemia is often difficult, due to the small transverse area of the cord, cerebrospinal fluid artifact, and inadequate resolution of magnetic resonance imaging. Physical therapy is the most important treatment option. The prognosis is dependent on the level of spinal cord damage, early identification and reversal of ischemia, and follow-up with intensive physical therapy and medical support. In addition to summarizing the literature regarding spinal cord infarction in children without vertebral fracture, this review article adds two cases to the literature that highlight the difficulties and controversies in the management of this condition.
Fatal accidents on glaciers: forensic, criminological, and glaciological conclusions.	The rare event of a corpse immersed in glacier ice becoming exposed on a glacier surface is closely connected with the glaciological conditions at the scene and the site of the accident. Provided that the time since death is known, certain questions relative to the circumstances of a mountain accident can only be answered by considering glaciological aspects. How the scene of an accident can be reconstructed by inference from the site of discovery is discussed by means of three exemplary cases that occurred on Tyrolean glaciers (Austria) during the past 40 years: (1) Two corpses were discovered close above the equilibrium line in the accumulation area after 25 years. The two victims had fallen down a rock face after the breaking off of a cornice and had come to rest in the uppermost part of the accumulation area. (2) A victim was discovered in the lower ablation area 8 years after falling down a crevasse in the middle part of the ablation area. (3) A female alpinist was discovered at the very end of the glacier after 29 years; it was concluded that the accident must have happened in the accumulation area.
Bilateral traumatic dislocation without fracture of the lumbosacral junction: case report and review of the literature.	Case report.
Impact of osteoporosis and vertebral fractures on quality-of-life. a population-based study in Valencia, Spain (The FRAVO Study).	To describe the health related quality of life in a population sample of postmenopausal women over the age of 50 and resident in the city of Valencia (Spain), according to the presence/absence of osteoporosis and the severity of prevalent morphometric vertebral fractures.
Ultrasound transmission speed and ultrasound bone profile score (UBPS) of the phalanges in normal women and women with osteoporosis.	The distal metaphysis of the first phalanx of the fingers II-V is, like the vertebral body, a useful site for the measurement of mineralisation and structure of the bone because of the simultaneous presence of compact and trabecular bone. With an ultrasound device (DBM sonic 1200, IGEA, Italy), we measured the adSOS (the amplitude dependent speed of sound) and the UBPS (ultrasound bone profile score), a score which is calculated from the graphic traces of the receiving probe with an expert system which uses fuzzy-logic at phalanges II-IV, as well as bone mineral density (BMD) at lumbar spine using dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Precision of the measurements was as follows: adSOS: short-time-CV% = 0.576, long-time-CV% = 1.1, SCV% = 5.9, RMSSD% = 1.825. UBPS: short-time CV% = 5.95. There was no correlation between adSOS or UBPS and lumbar BMD (DXA). There was a significant positive correlation between adSOS and UBPS, r = 0.804 (p<0.00001). The validity of adSOS and UBPS was examined in 25 young and healthy women (mean age: 33.4 year), 15 postmenopausal healthy women (mean age: 58.5 years), 17 women with osteopenia, (mean age: 52.4 years), as defined by a t-score between -1 to -2.5 SD as lumbar BMD (DXA), and 20 women with osteoporosis and vertebral fractures (mean age: 61.4 years). We compared the healthy postmenopausal women and the women with osteoporotic vertebral fractures, the z-score of the adSOS was below minus 1.5 SD and UBPS was below 40, sensitivity was 0.7 for adSOS, and 0.85 for UBPS, with a specificity 0.97 for adSOS, and of 0.93 for UBPS; positive predictive value: adSOS: 0.93, UBPS: 0.85. AdSOS declined with age (r= 0.694, p=0.021); the UBPS was not age dependent (r=-0.15, p = n.s.). The ROC-curve shows a value of 0.96 for adSOS and 0.94 for UBPS. AdSOS and UBPS could discriminate well between the healthy controls and the women with osteopenia or vertebral fractures (p<0.00001). These results show that adSOS and UBPS are precise parameters to be measured at the phalanges. The detection level of pathological changes in osteoporosis are similar between adSOS and lumbar BMD (DXA) and improved by using the UBPS. This might be explained by the influence of structural changes in bone on UBPS, rather than change in bone mineral alone. Prospective studies have to clarify the role of adSOS and UBPS in fracture prediction.
