Brain white matter damage in SCA1 and SCA2. An in vivo study using voxel-based morphometry, histogram analysis of mean diffusivity and tract-based spatial statistics.	Neurodegeneration in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1(SCA1) and 2(SCA2) is associated with white matter(WM) damage. Voxel-Based Morphometry(VBM), histogram analysis of mean diffusivity(MD) and Tract-Based Spatial Statistics(TBSS) enable an in vivo quantitative analysis of WM volume and structure. We assessed with these 3 techniques the whole brain WM damage in SCA1 and SCA2.
Ataxin-2-like is a regulator of stress granules and processing bodies.	Paralogs for several proteins implicated in neurodegenerative disorders have been identified and explored to further facilitate the identification of molecular mechanisms contributing to disease pathogenesis. For the disease-causing protein in spinocerebellar ataxia type 2, ataxin-2, a paralog of unknown function, termed ataxin-2-like, has been described. We discovered that ataxin-2-like associates with known interaction partners of ataxin-2, the RNA helicase DDX6 and the poly(A)-binding protein, and with ataxin-2 itself. Furthermore, we found that ataxin-2-like is a component of stress granules. Interestingly, sole ataxin-2-like overexpression led to the induction of stress granules, while a reduction of stress granules was detected in case of a low ataxin-2-like level. Finally, we observed that overexpression of ataxin-2-like as well as its reduction has an impact on the presence of microscopically visible processing bodies. Thus, our results imply a functional overlap between ataxin-2-like and ataxin-2, and further indicate a role for ataxin-2-like in the regulation of stress granules and processing bodies.
A review on the cause-effect relationship between oxidative stress and toxic proteins in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.	Protein aggregates are the defining pathological feature of human neurodegenerative diseases. Studies have revealed that mutant huntingtin, polyglutamine-expanded ataxin-1 and ataxin-3 can cause elevated levels of reactive oxygen species in neuronal cells. It has also been indicated that the normal host prion protein behaves as an antioxidant, while the neurotoxic peptide based on the sequence of the scrapie isoform increases hydrogen peroxide toxicity in neuronal cultures. Additionally, not only can oxidative stress contribute to the aggregation of beta-amyloid and alpha-synuclein, but both beta-amyloid and alpha-synuclein can induce oxidative damage. Furthermore, oxidative stressors have been shown to play a critical role in neurofibrillary pathology leading to tau hyperphosphorylation. In conclusion, the present review supports a cause-effect relationship between oxidative stress and toxic proteins in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders.
