Changes of contour of the spine caused by load carrying.	The development of new leisure activities such as walking has spread the use of the backpack as a means of carrying loads. The aim of this work was to present a way of defining the movements imposed on the trunk by this type of load carrying. A 20 kg load situated at the thoracic level (T9) of the trunk, was placed in a backpack (2.5 kg). The 12 subjects were average mountain guides of Auvergne region, intermediate level and complete beginners. External markers were glued to the projecting contours of the spinous processes of the C7, T7, T12, L3 and S1 vertebrae, the shin and the external occipital tuberosity (EOT). Using a Vicon 140 3-D system we measured the effective mobility of the different spinal segments in the sagittal plane during one step. For every subject, we noticed a significant decrease of the effective inter-segmental mobility (EISM) between S1-L3-T12 (p < .01) while backpacking a 22.5 kg load. A decrease of EISM also appeared at the next level between L3-T12-T7 (p < .05). An increase of the EISM between T7-C7-EOT was noted (p < .05). We supposed that strength loss of the back muscles and/or angular oscillations of the trunk could be a common cause of symptoms during backpacking. The subjects using this type of load carrying have to adopt an adequate position of the lumbar, dorsal and cervical vertebrae.
The mouse vertebrae: changes in the morphology of mouse vertebrae exhibit specific patterns over limited numbers of vertebral levels.	The mouse vertebrae from the cervix to the tip of the tail were characterized and anatomical features that have been lacking were added to the classical description. The vertebrae consist of six long-range and fourteen short-range substructures, with the foveal process being a newly identified substructure. The caudal transverse process, cranial hemal process and hemal ridge are substructures that are clearly defined in the mouse. Each long-range and short-range substructure has several specific morphological features such as length, width, area, shape and angle. These features exibit a crescendo, plateau or decrescendo pattern over a limited number of vertebral segments that ranges from just a few to twenty. The variety of substructural combinations and the constant changes in the morphological features lead to the fact that no single vertebra has the same morphology as any other. An analysis of the patterns of changes in morphology provides some insight into the genetic plan for the metameric body axis.
The giant crocodyliform Sarcosuchus from the Cretaceous of Africa.	New fossils of the giant African crocodyliform Sarcosuchus imperator clarify its skeletal anatomy, growth patterns, size, longevity, and phylogenetic position. The skull has an expansive narial bulla and elongate jaws studded with stout, smooth crowns that do not interlock. The jaw form suggests a generalized diet of large vertebrates, including fish and dinosaurs. S. imperator is estimated to have grown to a maximum body length of at least 11 to 12 meters and body weight of about 8 metric tons over a life-span of 50 to 60 years. Unlike its closest relatives, which lived as specialized piscivores in marginal marine habitats, S. imperator thrived in fluvial environments.
Diagnostic and interventional ultrasound of the pediatric spine.	Ultrasound is useful as a diagnostic tool in the evaluation of the pediatric spine, and can also help guide procedures in the interventional radiology suite or the operating room. This pictorial exhibit will display examples of diagnostic and interventional uses of ultrasound with respect to the pediatric spine.
Influence of number of pregnancies on bone mineral density in postmenopausal women of different age groups.	As data on the relationship between parity and bone mineral density often seem to be controversial, ultimately, a comprehensive research study was thought to be necessary. This study focused on examining the influence of the number of pregnancies on bone mineral density and investigating the relationship between pregnancy and bone mineral density at four sites in postmenopausal women of different age groups. A total of 509 postmenopausal women, varying from 45 to 86 years of age (mean age of 60.85 +/- 7.53 years) were considered for the study. A standardized interview was employed to obtain information on demographics, lifestyle, and, reproductive and menstrual histories. Patients were separated into four groups according to the number of pregnancies, i.e., nulliparae (52 patients), one to two parity (66 patients), three to five parity (178 patients), and more than five parity (213 patients). The patients were further classified into two age groups, 40-59 years (233 patients) and 60-80 years (276 patients), respectively. The number of pregnancies was found to range from 0 to 17 (with an overall mean of 5.42 +/- 3.68), with 4.29 +/- 2.74 (range, 0-16) accounting for live births, while 1.02 +/- 1.53 (range, 0-14) were abortions. There were no significant differences among the groups with respect to parameters such as, age, body mass index (BMI), age at menarche, age at menopause, and years since menopause (P > 0.05) in all of the 509 women and in the 40- to 59- and 60- to 80-year groups. When all the patients were considered, the bone mineral density (BMD) values of the spine and the trochanter for the more-than-five-parity group, were found to be significantly lower than those of the other groups (P < 0.05), while the BMD values of the spine and the femur (neck, trochanter) appeared to decrease with increasing parity. In the 40- to 59-year group, the BMD of the spine in both the nulliparae and one-to-two-parity groups was significantly higher than that of the more-than-five-parity group (P < 0.05). No significant differences were found among the groups with respect to the BMD values at any femur sites. The nulliparae patients in the 60- to 80-year group exhibited significantly higher trochanter and Ward's BMD values than those of the more-than-five-parity group (P < 0.05), whereas in the one-to-two-parity group, spine BMD values appeared to be significantly higher than those of the more-than-five-parity group (p < 0.05). Significant correlations were found between the number of pregnancies and BMD values for the spine (r = -0.23; P < 0.01), trochanter (r = -0.16; P < 0.01), and Ward's triangle (r = -0.14; P < 0.05), with no significant correlation for femur neck BMD (r = -0.08; P > 0.05) values. In conclusion, the present study suggests that the number of pregnancies has an effect on the BMD values and that this situation shows a variation in different age groups. In addition, our study indicates that there is a significant correlation between the number of pregnancies and the spine, trochanter, and Ward's triangle BMD, but there is no correlation for the femur neck BMD.
Scintigraphic evaluation of the thoracic spine in the asymptomatic riding horse.	Scintigraphic evaluation of the spinous processes of the equine spine has been done by subjective evaluation of radiotracer uptake in clinically abnormal horses. To determine the range of variation in asymptomatic riding horses, 33 normal horses were examined. Two 60 degrees oblique views of the thoracic and lumbar spine were evaluated subjectively, and a semi quantitative method based on standardized regions of interest in each spinous process in T10-L3 was also applied. A ratio between each spinous process and a reference area (Rib 15 or 16) was calculated. The effects of two different color displays and a smoothing filter were assessed. The results of the subjective evaluation was compared to the calculated ratios, and the associations between age, gender, weight, height, use and increased radiotracer uptake, and ratios were analyzed. No significant association was found between age, gender, weight, height, use and increased radiotracer uptake, or ratio. One or more areas of increased radiotracer uptake between T13 and T18 were common in the asymptomatic riding horse, which may have implications for the interpretation of clinical patients. The blue, green and red color display had a higher sensitivity for detecting increased radiotracer uptake compared to the continuous grayscale. The smoothing filter used in this study had no effect on the detection of areas with increased radiotracer uptake. The association between the results of the subjective evaluation and the semi quantitative method was apparent when analyzed in T13-17. To evaluate if the semi quantitative method can replace the subjective evaluation, studies on clinically affected horses are necessary.
Patient-specific DXA bone mineral density inaccuracies: quantitative effects of nonuniform extraosseous fat distributions.	Nonuniform extraosseous fat is shown to raise the magnitude of inaccuracies in DXA in vivo BMD measurements into the range of 20-50% in clinically relevant cases. Hence, DXA-based bone fragility diagnoses/ prognoses and evaluations of bone responsiveness to treatment can be unreliable. Patient-specific DXA in vivo bone mineral areal density (BMD) measurements have been demonstrated to be inherently inaccurate even when extraosseous fat (F) and lean muscle tissue (L) are uniformly distributed throughout the scan region of interest (ROI). The present work extends these investigations to quantitative evaluation of the extent to which clinically realistic soft tissue inhomogeneities external to the bone within the DXA scan ROI affect patient-specific in vivo BMD measurement inaccuracies. The results are particularly relevant to patient-specific lumbar vertebral and proximal femoral sites. Norland, Hologic, and Lunar DXA scans and corresponding DXA simulation studies of the same set of 225 different phantom arrays were carried out. The phantoms were specially fabricated absorptiometric replications of bone mineral material (B), red marrow (RM), and yellow marrow (YM) mixtures, and extraosseous F and L combinations spanning the anthropometric ranges encountered clinically. The three different DXA scanners yielded BMD results that effectively coincided, were in excellent agreement with the findings of the present corresponding DXA-simulation studies in each case, and confirmed the validity of the DXA BMD inaccuracy analysis formalism. It was found that only relatively small extraosseous soft tissue inhomogeneities within the ROI of DXA BMD scans can increase substantially the already sizable BMD inaccuracies shown earlier to pertain for uniformly distributed extraosseous soft tissues. The extent of these in vivo BMD inaccuracies (%) are shown to depend on the mean extraosseous F-to-L areal density ratio and its degree of nonuniformity within the local bone scan ROI, the marrow thickness and specific composition, and the actual BMD in any given case. It was found that patient-specific DXA-measured in vivo BMD inaccuracies can, in many clinically encountered cases, be as large as 20-50%, particularly so for osteopenic, osteoporotic, and elderly patients. It is concluded that, because these DXA in vivo BMD inaccuracies are unavoidable and clinically unpredictable, diagnoses/ prognoses of bone fragility and evaluations of bone responsiveness to treatment of individual patients based mainly on DXA in vivo BMD measurements can be unreliable.
Differences in bone density, body composition, physical activity, and diet between child gymnasts and untrained children 7-8 years of age.	Strategies that enhance the acquisition of bone mass may be protective against osteoporosis. BMD was compared in 20 artistic gymnasts (10 boys; 10 girls) and 20 untrained children ages 7-8 years. Higher regional values of BMD were observed in female gymnasts than untrained girls. If retained to adulthood, this higher BMD may protect skeletal integrity in later life. Strategies that enhance the acquisition of bone mass in children may assist with the prevention of osteoporosis. This study explored the effects of regular high-impact and weight-bearing activity before the age of 7 years on total and regional bone mineral density (BMD). Twenty artistic gymnasts (10 boys and 10 girls) and 20 untrained children, 7-8 years of age, were recruited. The untrained children were matched to gymnasts by sex, height, weight, and age. Female gymnasts trained 8-10 h per week and had trained regularly for 3-4 years. Male gymnasts trained 4-6 h per week and had trained for 1-2 years. Measurements of bone mineral density were made using DXA for total body BMD (TBBMD); lumbar spine, both areal (aSBMD) and volumetric (vSBMD); total spine; pelvis; arms; and legs. Significant mean differences (8-10%) in aSBMD, vSBMD, arm BMD, and TBBMD were observed between female gymnasts and untrained girls (p < 0.05: aSBMD, vSBMD, and TBBMD body mass (BM); p < 0.01: arm BMD). A nonsignificant trend toward a higher TBBMD/BM and arm BMD was observed in male gymnasts compared with untrained boys. Trends toward a higher BMD within the pelvis, legs, and total spine were also observed in gymnasts. There were no differences in total and regional BMD between untrained boys and untrained girls. The results suggest that gymnastics training before the age of 7 years enhances the acquisition of bone mass at selected skeletal sites. The magnitude of this enhancement seems to be linked to the cumulative volume of such training. If retained during adolescence and young adulthood, a surfeit of bone acquired through high-impact and weight-bearing activity in early childhood may protect skeletal integrity in later life.
Association of 5' estrogen receptor alpha gene polymorphisms with bone mineral density, vertebral bone area and fracture risk.	This study investigates the influence of genetic variation of the estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) gene locus on several bone parameters in 2042 individuals of The Rotterdam Study, a prospective population-based cohort study of elderly subjects. We analysed three polymorphic sites in the 5' region of the ESR1 gene; a (TA)(n)-repeat in the promoter region, and molecular haplotypes of the PvuII and XbaI RFLPs in intron 1, and inferred long-range haplotypes (LRH) thereof. We observed only three of the possible four PvuII-XbaI haplotypes in our population. A comparison with other Caucasian populations showed similar haplotype frequencies, while in Asian and African populations these were different. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis between the PvuII-XbaI haplotype and the (TA)(n) repeat showed strong LD between the two sites. Reconstruction of long range haplotypes over the entire 5' region, revealed six frequent LRH. In men, we did not observe an association between the ESR1 polymorphisms studied and bone parameters. In women, we demonstrated an allele dose effect of haplotype "px" (P=0.003) and a low number of (TA)(n) repeats (P=0.008) with decreased lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) (4.8% lower BMD in women homozygous for haplotype "px", representing 28% of the population, compared with homozygous non-carriers) and decreased vertebral bone area (2.3% difference between extreme genotypes; P=0.016). Most importantly, we found an increased vertebral fracture risk with evidence for an allele dose effect with an odds ratio of 2.2 (95%CI 1.3-3.5) for haplotype "px", and 2.0 (1.5-3.2) for a low number of (TA)(n) repeats. The ESR1 genotype dependent fracture risk is largely independent of BMD and bone area. Combination of risk alleles at both loci by long-range haplotyping improved the associations slightly, but because of the strong LD between the two polymorphic sites, we were unable to determine if any particular polymorphic site is driving the associations found. We conclude that ESR1 polymorphism in the 5' (promoter) region is associated with vertebral fracture risk, lumbar spine BMD and vertebral bone area in postmenopausal women, but not in men. The molecular mechanism underlying this association needs further study.
Surgical anatomy of the nerves and muscles in the posterior cervical spine: a guide for avoiding inadvertent nerve injuries during the posterior approach.	An anatomic study investigated the cervical dorsal rami and major cervical paravertebral muscles.
Spontaneous muscle twitches during sleep guide spinal self-organization.	During development, information about the three-dimensional shape and mechanical properties of the body is laid down in the synaptic connectivity of sensorimotor systems through unknown adaptive mechanisms. In spinal reflex systems, this enables the fast transformation of complex sensory information into adequate correction of movements. Here we use a computer simulation to show that an unsupervised correlation-based learning mechanism, using spontaneous muscle twitches, can account for the functional adaptation of the withdrawal reflex system. We also show that tactile feedback resulting from spontaneous muscle twitches during sleep does indeed modify sensorimotor transformation in young rats in a predictable manner. The results indicate that these twitches, corresponding to human fetal movements, are important in spinal self-organization.
Anatomy of the spinal cord and how the spinal cord is affected by local anesthetics and other drugs.	The spinal cord can be affected by several categories of drugs: local anesthetics, opiate agonist, alpha 2 adrenergic agonists, and ketamine. The mechanism of action, side effects, and usefulness of these injections vary with the type of drug used.
Effect of alendronate on bone mineral density and biochemical markers of bone turnover in type 2 diabetic women: the fracture intervention trial.	Alendronate sodium (ALN) increases bone mineral density (BMD) in heterogeneous populations of postmenopausal women, but its effect is unknown in women with type 2 diabetes. The objective of this project was to compare changes in BMD during 3 years of ALN treatment versus placebo in diabetic women.
Pterosaurs as part of a spinosaur diet.	A remarkable specimen has been discovered of an Early Cretaceous pterosaur that has a tooth embedded in one of its cervical vertebrae: the tooth has been identified as one from a spinosaurid theropod dinosaur. This fossil is direct evidence that spinosaurs included items other than fish in their diet.
Sex- and age-dependent mineral content in bones of the Ural region residents]	Mineral content in samples of ribs, cranium, vertebra, sternum, diaphyses of long bones of lower extremities was analyzed in Urals residents in association with their age and gender. Bone mineral content was estimated in terms of gram per kilogram of wet weight of the sample. The period of sampling and measurements was 1958-1998, ages of persons studied varied form 0 to 99 years, the range of their years of birth was 1872-1984, total number of samples was 6901. The following regularities were found: 1) the rate of increase in bone mineral density in the period of childhood and youth varied from 1.3-1.5% per year in the rib to 0.5-0.9% per year in cranium and fibula; 2) for some bones (vertebrae, fibula, sternum, cranium) a period of insignificant changes of bone mineral content was observed; 3) the rate of bone mineral loss in elderly persons was dependent on gender and bone type, the rate was estimated in the range from 0.8% per year (fibula, in females after the age of 50) to 0.2-0.3% per year for other regions of the skeleton in both men and women. The comparison of data on bone mineral content obtained with different methods, is presented.
Variation of the cervical spinal Torg ratio with gender and ethnicity.	The Torg ratio is used as a universal indicator of cervical canal stenosis despite reports of differences between gender and race. Normal values of this ratio have been established for subjects of different ethnicity, but the differences between genders and race have not been critically compared.
Non-invasive approach towards the in vivo estimation of 3D inter-vertebral movements: methods and preliminary results.	A kinematical model of the lower spine was designed and used to obtain a robust estimation of the vertebral rotations during torso movements from skin-surface markers recorded by video-cameras. Markers were placed in correspondence of the anatomical landmarks of the pelvic bone and vertebral spinous and transverse processes, and acquired during flexion, lateral bending and axial motions. In the model calibration stage, a motion-based approach was used to compute the rotation axes and centres of the functional segmental units. Markers were mirrored into virtual points located on the model surface, expressed in the local reference system of coordinates. The spine motion assessment was solved into the domain of extended Kalman filters: at each frame of the acquisition, the model pose was updated by minimizing the distances between the measured 2D marker projections on the cameras and the corresponding back-projections of virtual points located on the model surface. The novelty of the proposed technique rests on the fact that the varying location of the rotation centres of the functional segmental units can be tracked directly during motion computation. In addition, we show how the effects of skin artefacts on orientation data can be taken into account. As a result, the kinematical estimation of simulated motions shows that orientation artefacts were reduced by a factor of at least 50%. Preliminary experiments on real motion confirmed the reliability of the proposed method with results in agreement with classical studies in literature.
Homologies of the transversospinalis muscles in the anterior presacral region of Sauria (crown Diapsida).	Homologies of muscles of the m. transversospinalis group in the dorsal and cervical regions in Sauria are established based on detailed dissections and published accounts of lepidosaurs, crocodylians, and birds. Attachments and directions of tendons comprising this muscle group are fairly conserved among the saurian clades, enabling rather robust inferences on muscle homologies. The innervation pattern indicates that mm. ascendentes are the most lateral muscles of the m. transversospinalis group in Aves, and are inferred to be homologous with the crocodylian m. tendinoarticularis based on their topological similarities. It is suggested here that the lepidosaurian articulo-parietalis part of m. longissimus cervico-capitis actually belongs to the m. transversospinalis group because its tendons of origin are shared with those of m. semispinalis. The avian m. complexus and the lateral part of the crocodylian m. transversospinalis capitis have origins and insertions similar to this lepidosaurian muscle, and are proposed to be homologous with the latter. In some birds, m. longus colli dorsalis, pars profunda continues directly into the anterior cervical region as m. splenius accessorius, suggesting a serially homologous relationship. Similarly, m. splenius anticus continues anteriorly from m. longus colli dorsalis, pars cranialis, and both of these muscles lie dorsal to m. splenius accessorius. Therefore, the currently used nomenclature that regards m. splenius accessorius as a part of m. longus colli dorsalis, pars cranialis and that regards m. splenius anticus as a part of the former muscle does not accurately reflect the serial homologies among these muscles and may not be justified.
Interspecific and intraspecific variations in sibling species of sea urchin Echinometra.	Interspecific and intraspecific morphological and fertilization variations were studied in three sibling species of Echinometra (known as sp. B, C and D) found off the coast of Okinawa, Japan. Eggs from C and D were readily fertilized by sperm from all three color morphs of B when the sperm concentrations were high, but no fertilization was observed when sperm of the former were mixed with eggs from the latter. Under limiting sperm concentrations, however, both C and D were incapable to fertilize reciprocally with B. In contrast, crossing between C and D produced fertilization membrane at high and limiting sperm concentrations in both directions. Interspecific crosses between B vs. C and B vs. D clearly showed that these combinations were reproductively isolated in contrast to that observed for crossing between C and D. Interestingly, intraspecific fertilization of B showed considerable morphological variation in addition to variability in fertilization success. Intraspecific fertilization and morphological variations may occur due to a number of genetic and/or non-genetic factors. While the underlying cause(s) remain to be elucidated, the results of the present study suggest that B is now speciating very slowly.
Intrinsic bone tissue properties in adult rat vertebrae: modulation by dietary protein.	Bone strength depends on bone mass, geometry, microarchitecture, and intrinsic tissue quality. Whether intrinsic bone tissue properties could be influenced by changes in dietary protein is not known. To address this issue, nanoindentation tests were performed on the lateral, anterior, and posterior site of L5 vertebral bodies in adult female rats fed a normal protein containing diet and in ovariectomized (OVX) rats receiving an isocaloric low protein diet with or without isocaloric essential amino acids supplements. The tissue properties varied significantly between the different sites (anterior, posterior, lateral), suggesting possible effects of heterogeneous stress distribution on the vertebrae in vivo. Isocaloric low protein intake associated with ovariectomy led to significant decreases of indentation modulus, hardness, and dissipated energy on the posterior vertex. Axial compression tests of adjacent vertebral bodies were correlated with the indentation results. Correlations between macroscopic mechanical data obtained by axial compression of vertebral body, and intrinsic tissue properties measured by nanoindentation test suggest that postelastic behavior strongly varied with material fragility detected on the tissue level. Macroscopic stiffness however may be dominated by bone geometry changes and less by variations of intrinsic bone tissue properties. Combining parameters of tissue properties and bone mineral density was highly predictive of vertebral body ultimate strength. Besides geometry and microarchitecture, intrinsic bone tissue properties are important determinants of the mechanical competence of rat vertebrae. Changes in intrinsic tissue properties could thus contribute to the increased bone fragility found in protein undernutrition.
Is epidural fat associated with body habitus?	To evaluate, in the spine, the relationship between the amount of epidural fat to body weight, height, body mass index (BMI), presence of obesity, depth of posterior subcutaneous fat, as well as gender and age.
Stem Lagomorpha and the antiquity of Glires.	We describe several fossils referable to Gomphos elkema from deposits close to the Paleocene-Eocene boundary at Tsagan Khushu, Mongolia. Gomphos shares a suite of cranioskeletal characters with extant rabbits, hares, and pikas but retains a primitive dentition and jaw compared to its modern relatives. Phylogenetic analysis supports the position of Gomphos as a stem lagomorph and excludes Cretaceous taxa from the crown radiation of placental mammals. Our results support the hypothesis that rodents and lagomorphs radiated during the Cenozoic and diverged from other placental mammals close to the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary.
The salmon vertebral body develops through mineralization of two preformed tissues that are encompassed by two layers of bone.	The teleost backbone consists of amphicoelous vertebrae and intervertebral ligaments, both of which include notochord-derived structures. On the basis of a sequential developmental study of the vertebral column of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) from the egg stage up to early fry stage (300-2500 day-degrees) we show that the vertebral body consists of four layers or compartments, two of which are formed through mineralization of preformed collagenous tissue (the notochordal sheath and the intervertebral ligament) and two of which are formed through ossification. The three inner layers have ordered lamellar collagen matrixes, which alternate perpendicularly from layer to layer, whereas the outer layer consists of cancellous bone with a woven matrix. The bone layers also differ in osteocyte content. In this study we describe the structural details of the layers, and their modes of formation. The results are compared with previous descriptions, and possible phylogenetic implications are discussed.
Sexually dimorphic proportions of the harbour porpoise (Phocoena phocoena) skeleton.	Sexual differences in growth, allometric growth patterns and skeletal proportions were investigated by linear measurements of skeletal parts on 225 harbour porpoises (Phocoena phocoena) from the inner Danish and adjacent waters. Females show larger asymptotic sizes and extended period of growth compared with males. Measurements of the skull and flipper bones show negative allometry, whereas those of the bones of the body generally show positive allometry. There are no statistically significant intersexual differences in allometry except for the pelvic bones, where the males show stronger positive allometry. Throughout the range of individual sizes, females have significantly larger skulls and shorter vertebral columns than males for similarly sized individuals. In fully grown specimens, the condylobasal length of females makes up a smaller proportion of total length, and the vertebrae make up a larger proportion as compared with males. As these characters show negative and positive allometry, respectively, it is suggested that males finish their development at an earlier stage than females, retaining more paedomorphic proportions of the skeleton. Paedomorphosis in fully grown males relative to females is also found in the vertebral epiphyses that mature later in males than females, although the males finish growth at a younger age.
Pediatric spinal trauma: injuries in very young children.	Injuries to the spine in very young children are comparatively rare. The prevalence of upper cervical injuries and spinal cord injuries is greater. Spinal cord injury is more common in young children and fracture is less common than in older children and adolescents. This is because of the anatomic and biomechanical differences in the growing spine including a more horizontal facet orientation, greater elasticity of the soft tissues, less muscular development, and relatively greater head size compared to the trunk. These features are more pronounced in the very young child. The clinical and radiographic evaluation of small children can be difficult. Unossified bone and physeal cartilage can be confused with fractures. The evaluation, safe transportation, and spinal clearance of the unconscious multiply injured child suspected of having spinal injury present special challenges.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine. Normal anatomy.	Standard anatomy of the spine may be found in anatomy and radiology textbooks. However, there are aspects of spinal anatomy that are of particular importance to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The structure and orientation of the facet joints and their relationship to the neural foramina receive relatively little attention in standard anatomic works, but they are of great importance in evaluating nerve root compression syndromes. Similarly, the relationships between the cross-sectional diameters of the spinal canal, the subarachnoid space, and the spinal cord assume a great deal of significance when evaluating patients with signs or symptoms of spinal stenosis. Changes in the configurations and composition of the spinal cord will become increasingly important to the radiologists as it becomes possible to identify and distinguish spinal cord grey and white matter. Degenerative syndromes of the spinal cord may be more thoroughly evaluated once MRI permits identification of the specific regions or structures of the cord in which the tissue loss has been most severe.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine. Technology and technique.	Perhaps in no other area of radiology is the appearance of the images as dependent on the technique used to obtain them as is the case in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In some instances, such as decreasing signal-to-noise ratios at the periphery of surface coils or obvious difficulties in localizing the level of an abnormality detected in spinal images, the technical dependence is obvious. There are many instances, however, in which the influence of technology may be more subtle, although no less important. It is far less of a problem to have difficulty localizing a level when this difficulty is recognized than it is when ambiguity concerning the level of an abnormality goes undetected. Obsessive attention to accurate localization of levels is necessary to avoid potentially dangerous mistakes. Terms such as "T1-weighted" rarely provide an accurate description of the contrast characteristics of an MRI image. Careful use of terminology, or at a minimum clear thinking concerning the determinants of image contrast will avoid confusion in image interpretation. The "weighting" of an image usually cannot be defined in terms of a single parameter, and attempts to do so often obfuscate more than they clarify. As technology evolves, a variety of different "T1-weighted" pulse sequences may be introduced. Each of these may display different contrast characteristics. It will be important to identify the specific pulse sequence, rather than "weighting" to understand the signal intensities observed on images.
Body size and proportions in early hominids.	The discovery of several associated body parts of early hominids whose taxonomic identity is known inspires this study of body size and proportions in early hominids. The approach consists of finding the relationship between various measures of skeletal size and body mass in modern ape and human specimens of known body weight. This effort leads to 78 equations which predict body weight from 95 fossil specimens ranging in geological age between 4 and 1.4 mya. Predicted weights range from 10 kg to over 160 kg, but the partial associated skeletons provide the essential clues as to which predictions are most reliable. Measures of hindlimb joint size are the best and probably those equations based on the human samples are better than those based on all Hominoidea. Using hindlimb joint size of specimens of relatively certain taxonomy and assuming these measures were more like those of modern humans than of apes, the male and female averages are as follows: Australopithecus afarensis, 45 and 29 kg; A. africanus, 41 and 30 kg; A. robustus, 40 and 32 kg; A. boisei, 49 and 34 kg; H. habilis, 52 and 32 kg. These values appear to be consistent with the range of size variation seen in the entire postcranial samples that can be assigned to species. If hominoid (i.e., ape and human combined) proportions are assumed, the males would be 10 to 23 kg larger and the females 4 to 10 kg larger.
Neuropathic low back pain.	In this discussion, we hope to advance a clinical approach to low back pain that is more in line with our modern understanding of neuropathic pain. We review the current understanding of normal and pathologic neuroanatomy of the lumbar spine and then outline how pathology in the different structures can lead to neuropathic pain and cause common pain patterns seen in clinical practice. We also detail the available treatments for neuropathic low back pain.
Biomechanical effect of posterior elements and ligamentous tissues of lumbar spine on load sharing.	In this paper, we report on the development of a three-dimensional model of human lower lumbar spine based on actual geometry of L4-L5 motion segment. The simulation is performed on the model extracted from 2 mm slices of CT-Scan data of a healthy subject. The finite element model includes different parts, such as, cortical shell, cancellous core, endplates, pedicle, lamina, transverse process, and spinous process. Additionally, it takes into account the intervertebral disc including the nucleus pulposus and annulus fibrosus. The seven ligamentous structures of the L4-L5 motion segment, such as, anterior longitudinal ligament, posterior longitudinal ligament, and supraspinous ligament, were also incorporated. Various biomechanical characteristics of the computer generated model are studied under different physiological loadings. The focus of this study is on the role of posterior elements on load sharing of the lower lumbar region. The simulation yields data on the stress distribution inside the vertebrae and the amount of resulting deformation that takes place. Different simulated models of an injured lumbar spine are also being analyzed for two cases of facetectomy and degraded nucleus disorders. It is shown that the inclusion of the posterior elements along with the ligamentous tissues lead to an increase in the stiffness and stability of the L4-L5 motion segment.
Bone mass of spine and forearm in osteoporosis and in German normals: influences of sex, age and anthropometric parameters.	We measured forearm bone mineral density (BMD) using single photon absorptiometry (SPA) and bone mineral content (BMC) and BMD of lumbar spine by dual photon absorptiometry (DPA). The population consisted of 463 bone healthy subjects, 346 females and 117 males aged 20-85 years. Any underlying bone disease or other diseases known to affect bone mass were excluded by physical examination, thoracic and lumbar radiographs and laboratory screening. Patients with osteoarthritis of lumbar spine were excluded as well as patients taking drugs known to affect bone mass. All bone mass values declined with age. Body height also declined with age by 1.2 cm and 1.8 cm per 10 years (-0.7% and -1%) in females and males respectively. Main effects of age, body height, -surface, -weight and -mass index on bone mass were calculated using multiple regression models. In males and females lumbar BMC measured in gHA depended primarily on body height and secondarily on age. Spinal BMD as measured in g cm-2 was primarily dependent on age and then on height. In females forearm BMD depended primarily on age and then on body surface, in males on body surface only. Using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis the ROC area increased from 0.81-0.85 (n.s.) including body height into spinal BMD values leading to a higher sensitivity of measurements of spinal bone mass in recognizing 58 patients with spinal postmenopausal osteoporosis. Including body surface into forearm BMD measurements ROC area increased from 0.66-0.69 (P = 0.055).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Elements of a general theory of joints. 7. Mechanical structures of the relative motion of adjacent vertebrae.	The mechanical structure of the relative motion of adjacent vertebrae is given by the interplay of the artt. zygapophysiales, the intervertebral disk and the ligaments, respectively. This structure will be described in the 3 main functional planes. Horizontal plane (parallel to the disk): The two artt. zygapophysiales structurally represent a force locked, kinematically contrained four-bar-chain (link quadrangle). It possesses but one degree of freedom. The intervertebral disk does not influence, therefore, the kinematic structure but the extent of the motion. Frontal-coronal plane: The four-bar-chain of the frontal plane seems to be inflexible. Lateral bending is only possible combined with a right or left handed axial rotation. Vertical-sagittal plane: The artt. zygapophysiales work as a single dimeric link chain. The momentary rotational center lies on the common normal of the two articular surfaces. Its position upon that is determined by the geometry of the applied force system according to the "reciprocal theorem of synarthroses". Solely one direction of translation is possible. A translation perpendicular to the intervertebral disk is impossible in the cervical and thoracic region.
Comparison of body height and vertebral column length in Chinese parturients]	Spinal anesthesia (SA) is frequently used in parturients undergoing Cesarean sections (C/S). The body height (BH) is commonly believed to be one of the factors influencing the spread of SA, especially in patients with extremes of the BH. Recent studies, however, show that the spread of SA is not related to the BH but to the vertebral column length (VL). This study aims to evaluate the relationship between the BH and VL in Chinese parturients. 258 parturients without vertebral column abnormality undergoing C/S were included in this study. The VL (between C7 prominence and sacral hiatus) of each patient was measured in the right decubitus position. They were divided into 3 groups according to their BH (group A less than 152 cm; group B = in the range of 153-161 cm; group C greater than 162 cm). In each group correlation between the BH and VL was made by linear regression analysis. Also determined is whether there is significant difference between each two groups by unpaired Student's t-test. A p values less than 0.05 is considered as statistical significance. The results of the present study showed that although there exists correlation between the BH and VL, the correlation coefficient (r value) is small in each group (0.29, 0.13, and 0.31 in Group A, B, and C respectively; p less than 0.05). There is, also, no significant difference of the VL among the three groups. Therefore we concluded that the BH and VL did not closely correlate and therefore BH might contribute little to the spread of SA in the Chinese parturients, including those with extremes of BH.
Role of endplates in contributing to compression behaviors of motion segments and intervertebral discs.	The purpose of this study was to gain an improved understanding of the mechanical behavior of the intervertebral disc in the presence and absence of the vertebral endplates. Mechanical behaviors of rat caudal motion segments, vertebrae and isolated disc explants under two different permeability conditions were investigated and viscoelastic behaviors were evaluated using a stretched-exponential function to describe creep and recovery behaviors. The results demonstrated that both vertebrae and discs underwent significant deformations in the motion segment even under relatively low-loading conditions. Secondly, disruption of the collagenous network had minimal impact on equilibrium deformations of disc explants as compared to disc deformations occurring in the motion segments provided that vertebral deformations were accounted for; however, differences in endplate permeability conditions had a significant effect on viscoelastic behaviors. Creep occurred more quickly than recovery for motion segment and explant specimens. In addition, disc explants and motion segments both exhibited non-recoverable deformations under axial compression under low- and high-loading conditions. Results have important implications for interpreting the role of vertebral endplates in contributing to disc mechanical behaviors and direct application to mechanobiology studies involving external loading to rodent tail intervertebral discs.
Heterogeneous meshing and biomechanical modeling of human spine.	We aim to develop a patient-specific biomechanical model of human spine for the purpose of surgical training and planning. In this paper, we describe the development of a finite-element model of the spine from the VHD Male Data. The finite-element spine model comprises volumetric elements suitable for deformation and other finite-element analysis using ABAQUS. The mesh generation solution accepts segmented radiological slices as input, and outputs three-dimensional (3D) volumetric finite element meshes that are ABAQUS compliant. The proposed mesh generation method first uses a grid plane to divide the contours of the anatomical boundaries and its inclusions into discrete meshes. A grid frame is then built to connect the grid planes between any two adjacent planes using a novel scheme. The meshes produced consist of brick elements in the interior of the contours and with tetrahedral and wedge elements at the boundaries. The nodal points are classified according to their materials and hence, elements can be assigned different properties. The resultant spine model comprises a detailed model of the 7 cervical vertebrae, 12 thoracic vertebrae, 5 lumbar vertebrae, and S1. Each of the vertebrae and intervertebral disc has between 1200 and 6000 elements, and approximately 1200 elements, respectively. The accuracy of the resultant VHD finite element spine model was good based on visual comparison of volume-rendered images of the original CT data, and has been used in a computational analysis involving needle insertion and static deformation. We also compared the mesh generated using our method against two automatically generated models; one consists of purely tetrahedral elements and the other hexahedral elements.
Material properties and biochemical composition of mineralized vertebral cartilage in seven elasmobranch species (Chondrichthyes).	Elasmobranchs, particularly sharks, function at speed and size extremes, exerting large forces on their cartilaginous skeletons while swimming. This casts doubt on the generalization that cartilaginous skeletons are mechanically inferior to bony skeletons, a proposition that has never been experimentally verified. We tested mineralized vertebral centra from seven species of elasmobranch fishes: six sharks and one axially undulating electric ray. Species were chosen to represent a variety of morphologies, inferred swimming speeds and ecological niches. We found vertebral cartilage to be as stiff and strong as mammalian trabecular bone. Inferred swimming speed was a good, but not infallible, predictor of stiffness and strength. Collagen content was also a good predictor of material stiffness and strength, although proteoglycan was not. The mineral fraction in vertebral cartilage was similar to that in mammalian trabecular bone and was a significant predictor of material properties.
Positional anatomy of vessels that may be damaged at laparoscopy: new access criteria based on CT and ultrasonography to avoid vascular injury.	To study the relations of major blood vessels (aortoiliac bifurcation and iliocaval confluence) and the inferior epigastric arteries to the umbilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) planes and to apply this information to define ideal, anatomically based locations for primary and secondary laparoscopic port insertions to minimize vascular injuries.
Influence of anthropometric parameters and bone size on bone mineral density using volumetric quantitative computed tomography and dual X-ray absorptiometry at the hip.	To evaluate the influence of anthropometric parameters (age, height, and weight) and bone size on bone mineral density (BMD) using volumetric quantitative computed tomography (QCT) and dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in a group of elderly women.
Quantifying anisotropy of trabecular bone from gray-level images.	In this study, a gray-level image-based approach to quantifying structural anisotropy is described. The secant modulus was estimated for thirty L(3) vertebral bodies using nondestructive testing. The vertebral bodies were imaged with a clinical CT scanner. QCT measurements of BMD were also performed for trabecular regions. Structural anisotropy in trabecular regions was quantified from binarized images using the mean intercept length (MIL) method and from gray-level images using the gray-level structure tensor (GST) method. BMD alone explained 28% of the variation of the secant modulus. Multivariable regression models combining BMD and measures of anisotropy, as proposed by the relations formulated by Cowin, revealed significant improvement in the prediction of the secant modulus. Combining a principal value of the fabric tensor, as computed by either MIL or GST methods, with BMD resulted in increased correlation with the secant modulus. The highest correlation (R(2)=0.81) was achieved with a combination of BMD and the third principal value of the GST. Adding a term proportional to the minimal cross-sectional area of the vertebral body explained 86% of the variation of the secant modulus.
Bony-tailed tadpoles: the development of supernumerary caudal vertebrae in larval megophryids (Anura).	The axial skeleton in most anuran families consists of <or=9 presacral vertebrae, a single sacral vertebra, and the urostyle. Tadpoles from one anuran family, the Megophryidae, deviate, however, from this pattern in bearing supernumerary vertebral centra in their tails. At least 5 of 11 genera from this Asian family share this character: Leptobrachella (approximately 30 caudal centra), Leptolalax (5-6), Megophrys (11-15), Ophryophryne (11-14), and Xenophrys (>or=7). Tadpoles from each genus are typically found in streams, where their extended caudal skeleton anchors muscles that facilitate tadpoles wiggling between plant debris and rocks or even burrowing into the stream bed. The extra centra of megophryids ossify differently in each genus. In Leptobrachella and Ophryophryne, the caudal centra ossify around the entire notochord, whereas in Megophrys and Xenophrys each develops from dorsal and ventral pairs of ossifications that expand to meet each other. The evolutionary loss of caudal centra, an apomorphic anuran trait, is reversed in larval megophryids and confirms that the machinery for caudal vertebral development has been retained in some modern anurans. A likely driving force in the reappearance of the trait in megophryids is the selective pressure associated with a riparian lifestyle.
Wavelet-based characterization of vertebral trabecular bone structure from magnetic resonance images at 3 T compared with micro-computed tomographic measurements.	Trabecular bone structure and bone density contribute to the strength of bone and are important in the study of osteoporosis. Wavelets are a powerful tool in characterizing and quantifying texture in an image. The purpose of this study was to validate wavelets as a tool in computing trabecular bone thickness directly from gray-level images. To this end, eight cylindrical cores of vertebral trabecular bone were imaged using 3-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and micro-computed tomography (microCT). Thickness measurements of the trabecular bone from the wavelet-based analysis were compared with standard 2D structural parameters analogous to bone histomorphometry (MR images) and direct 3D distance transformation methods (microCT images). Additionally, bone volume fraction was determined using each method. The average difference in trabecular thickness between the wavelet and standard methods was less than the size of 1 pixel size for both MRI and microCT analysis. A correlation (R) of .94 for microCT measurements and that of .52 for MRI were found for the bone volume fraction. Based on these results, we conclude that wavelet-based methods deliver results comparable with those from established MR histomorphometric measurements. Because the wavelet transform is more robust with respect to image noise and operates directly on gray-level images, it could be a powerful tool for computing structural bone parameters from MR images acquired using high resolution and thus limited signal scenarios.
Functional anatomy of the caudal thoracolumbar and lumbosacral spine in the horse.	Research in spinal biomechanics and functional anatomy has advanced back pain research in man. Yet, despite the performance limiting nature of back pain in horses, there are few data for the equine spine.
Fine mapping of a swine quantitative trait locus for number of vertebrae and analysis of an orphan nuclear receptor, germ cell nuclear factor (NR6A1).	The number of vertebrae in pigs varies and is associated with meat productivity. Wild boars, which are ancestors of domestic pigs, have 19 vertebrae. In comparison, European commercial breeds have 21-23 vertebrae, probably owing to selective breeding for enlargement of body size. We previously identified two quantitative trait loci (QTL) for the number of vertebrae on Sus scrofa chromosomes (SSC) 1 and 7. These QTL explained an increase of more than two vertebrae. Here, we performed a map-based study to define the QTL region on SSC1. By using three F2 experimental families, we performed interval mapping and recombination analyses and defined the QTL within a 1.9-cM interval. Then we analyzed the linkage disequilibrium of microsatellite markers in this interval and found that 10 adjacent markers in a 300-kb region were almost fixed in European commercial breeds. Genetic variation of the markers was observed in Asian local breeds or wild boars. This region encoded an orphan nuclear receptor, germ cell nuclear factor (NR6A1, formerly known as GCNF), which contained an amino acid substitution (Pro192Leu) coincident with the QTL. This substitution altered the binding activity of NR6A1 to its corepressors, nuclear receptor-associated protein 80 (RAP80) and nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (NCOR1). In addition, somites of mouse embryos demonstrated expression of NR6A1 protein. Together, these results suggest that NR6A1 is a strong candidate for one of the QTL that influence number of vertebrae in pigs.
Anatomy and examination of the spine.	A basic knowledge of anatomy of the spine is an essential ingredient to understanding disease and disorders of the spine. The second section of this article details the neurologic examination of the spine in patients with neck and back pain. Understanding anatomic concepts leads to an informed examination of the spine. Through the history and neurologic examination, many disorders of spinal anatomy can be diagnosed.
Epidemiology and risk factors for spine pain.	Low back and neck pain is a common problem and one of enormous social, psychologic, and economic burden. It is estimated that 15% to 20% of adults have back pain during a single year and 50% to 80% experience at least one episode of back pain during a lifetime. Low back pain afflicts all ages, from adolescents to the elderly, and is a major cause of disability in the adult working population. Risk factors for developing spine pain are multidimensional; physical attributes, socioeconomic status, general medical health and psychologic state, and occupational environmental factors all contribute to the risk for experiencing pain.
Automated generation of curved planar reformations from MR images of the spine.	A novel method for automated curved planar reformation (CPR) of magnetic resonance (MR) images of the spine is presented. The CPR images, generated by a transformation from image-based to spine-based coordinate system, follow the structural shape of the spine and allow the whole course of the curved anatomy to be viewed in individual cross-sections. The three-dimensional (3D) spine curve and the axial vertebral rotation, which determine the transformation, are described by polynomial functions. The 3D spine curve passes through the centres of vertebral bodies, while the axial vertebral rotation determines the rotation of vertebrae around the axis of the spinal column. The optimal polynomial parameters are obtained by a robust refinement of the initial estimates of the centres of vertebral bodies and axial vertebral rotation. The optimization framework is based on the automatic image analysis of MR spine images that exploits some basic anatomical properties of the spine. The method was evaluated on 21 MR images from 12 patients and the results provided a good description of spine anatomy, with mean errors of 2.5 mm and 1.7 degrees for the position of the 3D spine curve and axial rotation of vertebrae, respectively. The generated CPR images are independent of the position of the patient in the scanner while comprising both anatomical and geometrical properties of the spine.
Anatomical variations of the iliolumbar vein with application to the anterior retroperitoneal approach to the lumbar spine: a cadaver study.	Objectives of this study include identification of lumbosacral venous variations, designation of a critical area of dissection for surgical exposure, and comparison between both male/female and right/left-sided anatomy. Attempts were made to provide anatomic nomenclature that accurately describes these structures. Thirty-eight iliolumbar venous systems in 20 cadavers (11 females/9 males) were dissected. Each system was identified as one of three patterns of variation: common venous trunk (combining ascending lumbar and iliolumbar venous systems) with distal veins, common venous trunk without distal veins, and venous systems without a common venous trunk. Dimensions including distances to the inferior vena cava (IVC) confluence, the obturator nerve, and the lumbosacral trunk, and venous stem length were obtained to aid surgical dissection. Differences between males and females and those between right and left sides were compared. Anterior lumbosacral venous variations could be organized into three groups. A Type 1 venous system (common venous trunk with distal veins) was most common (53% of systems). The anatomical name "lateral lumbosacral veins" adequately describes the anatomical location of these veins and does not assume a direction of venous flow or the lack of individual distal veins. A critical area bordered by the obturator nerve anteriorly, the psoas muscle laterally, the spinal column medially, and sacrum posteriorly within 8.2 cm of the IVC confluence should be defined to adequately dissect the lateral lumbosacral veins. Differences in male and female lateral lumbosacral venous anatomy do not alter surgeon's approach to the anterior lumbar spine.
Changes in bone mineral status and bone size during pregnancy and the influences of body weight and calcium intake.	Calcium may be mobilized from the maternal skeleton during pregnancy, which may be influenced by several factors.
Neuroimaging of spinal diseases: a pictorial review.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become a valuable noninvasive, cost-effective tool for accurately evaluating spine disorders. This article affords a comprehensive review of normal anatomy as it relates to MRI interpretation with specific attention to accurately defining nerve root abnormalities. It gives in-depth detail on disc herniation nomenclature with specific examples of disc bulge, disc protrusion, disc extrusion, and disc sequestration. In addition, there are illustrations of various forms of degenerative spine disease, including intradiscal degenerative disease, reactive end plate changes, spinal stenosis, synovial cyst formation, and spinal instability. Differentiating features for separating osteoporotic spine fracture from underlying neoplastic pathologic fracture are illustrated. Finally, examples of both benign and malignant disease are illustrated in the spine with corresponding clinical and MRI examples.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine at 3 Tesla.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has developed dramatically in the 25 years since its clinical introduction. Advances in hardware design have included the development of high field magnets and more sophisticated and sensitive coils. Improvements in sequences, data sampling, and postprocessing software have benefited the attainable spatial and temporal resolution to the point at which the fine depiction of anatomical structure and pathological processes is now routine. As in other radiological areas, the most recent advances in MRI have proven highly valuable in the field of musculoskeletal radiology where the lack of radiation, high soft tissue contrast, and capacity for multiplanar or three-dimensional imaging have made MRI the imaging modality of choice. Particular benefits are seen in diagnostic imaging of the spine where MRI is clearly superior to both conventional radiography and computed tomography. In this article, we discuss the impact of the most recent technological advance in MRI, namely the advent of 3 Tesla (3-T) imaging, on diagnostic imaging of the spine. Comparisons are drawn with imaging at 1.5 T, and emphasis is placed on MR physics and on the benefits and principal difficulties associated with spine imaging at high field strength.
Gradient moment nulling for steady-state free precession MR imaging of cerebrospinal fluid.	Steady-state free precession (SSFP) pulse sequences can produce magnetic resonance (MR) images rapidly, in which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is several times more intense than the other tissues. However, motion in the presence of magnetic field gradients reduces the intensity of CSF drastically, unless the time integral of the gradient waveform between each radio-frequency (rf) pulse vanishes. The consequences of motion on SSFP are explored here in detail theoretically and experimentally. The principle of gradient moment nulling is applied with the objective of giving CSF in SSFP images uniformly high intensity everywhere, in spite of motion. Theoretical analysis of the phase of the transverse magnetization from a group of isochromats, with a trajectory described by a Taylor series, reveals how motion along each direction disrupts SSFP and also causes ghost artifacts. Images of CSF in the cervical spine are found to have less extensive flow voids and weaker ghosts from pulsation if the first moment calculated from the rf pulse to the center of the gradient echo vanishes for both the frequency encoding and slice selection gradient waveforms. However, first-order moment nulling of the phase encoding gradient waveform is unnecessary for SSFP imaging of CSF.
The vertebral formula of the last common ancestor of African apes and humans.	The modal number of lumbar vertebrae in modern humans is five. It varies between three and four in extant African apes (mean=3.5). Because both chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and gorillas (Gorilla gorilla) possess the same distributions of thoracic, lumbar, and sacral vertebrae, it has been assumed from parsimony that the last common ancestor (LCA) of African apes and humans possessed a similarly short lower back. This "short-backed LCA" scenario has recently been viewed favorably in an analysis of the intra- and interspecific variation in axial formulas observed among African apes and humans (Pilbeam, 2004. J Exp Zool 302B:241-267). However, the number of bonobo (Pan paniscus) specimens in that study was small (N=17). Here we reconsider vertebral type and number in the LCA in light of an expanded P. paniscus sample as well as evidence provided by the human fossil record. The precaudal (pre-coccygeal) axial column of bonobos differs from those of chimpanzees and gorillas in displaying one additional vertebra as well as significantly different combinations of sacral, lumbar, and thoracic vertebrae. These findings, along with the six-segmented lumbar column of early Australopithecus and early Homo, suggest that the LCA possessed a long axial column and long lumbar spine and that reduction in the lumbar column occurred independently in humans and in each ape clade, and continued after separation of the two species of Pan as well. Such an explanation is strongly congruent with additional details of lumbar column reduction and lower back stabilization in African apes.
Morbidity of en bloc resections in the spine.	The morbidity of surgical procedures for spine tumors can be expected to be worse than for other conditions. This is particularly true of en bloc resections, the most technically demanding procedures. A retrospective review of prospective data from a large series of en bloc resections may help to identify risk factors, and therefore to reduce the rate of complications and to improve outcome. A retrospective study of 1,035 patients affected by spine tumors-treated from 1990 to 2007 by the same team-identified 134 patients (53.0% males, age 44 +/- 18 years) who had undergone en bloc resection for primary tumors (90) and bone metastases (44). All clinical, histological and radiological data were recorded from the beginning of the period in a specifically built database. The study was set up to correlate diagnosis, staging and treatment with the outcome. Oncological and functional results were recorded for all patients at periodic, diagnosis-related controls, until death or the latest follow-up examination (from 0 to 211 months, median 47 months, 25th-75th percentile 22-85 months). Forty-seven on the 134 patients (34.3%) suffered a total of 70 complications (0.86 events per 100 patient-years); 32 patients (68.1%) had one complication, while the rest had 2 or more. There were 41 major and 29 minor complications. Three patients (2.2%) died from complications. Of the 35 patients with a recurrent or contaminated tumor, 16 (45.7%) suffered at least one complication; by contrast, complications arose in 31 (31.3%) of the 99 patients who had had no previous treatment and who underwent the whole of their treatment in the same center (P = 0.125). The risk of major complications was seen to be more than twice as high in contaminated patients than in non-contaminated ones (OR = 2.52, 95%CI 1.01-6.30, P = 0.048). Factors significantly affecting the morbidity are multisegmental resections and operations including double contemporary approaches. A local recurrence was recorded in 21 cases (15.7%). The rate of deep infection was higher in patients who had previously undergone radiation therapy (RT), but the global incidence of complications was lower. Re-operations were mostly due to tumor recurrences, but also to hardware failures, wound dehiscence, hematomas and aortic dissection. En bloc resection is able to improve the prognosis of aggressive benign and low-grade malignant tumors in the spine; however, complications are not rare and possibly fatal. The rate of complication is higher in multisegmental resections and when double combined approach is performed, as it can be expected in more complex procedures. Re-operations display greater morbidity owing to dissection through scar/fibrosis from previous operations and possibly from RT. The treatment of recurrent cases and planned transgression to reduce surgical aggressiveness are associated with a higher rate of local recurrence, which can be considered the most severe complication. In terms of survival and quality of life, late results are worse in recurrent cases than in complicated cases. Careful treatment planning and, in the event of uncertainty, referral to a specialty center must be stressed.
Surgical strategies for managing foraminal nerve sheath tumors: the emerging role of CyberKnife ablation.	Sixteen Stanford University Medical Center (SUMC) patients with foraminal nerve sheath tumors had charts reviewed. CyberKnife radiosurgery was innovative in management. Parameters were evaluated for 16 foraminal nerve sheath tumors undergoing surgery, some with CyberKnife. Three neurofibromas had associated neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Eleven patients had one resection; others had CyberKnife after one (two) and two (three) operations. The malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) had prior field-radiation and adds another case. Approaches included laminotomy and laminectomies with partial (three) or total (two) facetectomies/fusions. Two cases each had supraclavicular, lateral extracavitary, retroperitoneal and Wiltze and costotransversectomy/thoracotomy procedures. Two underwent a laminectomy/partial facetectomy, then CyberKnife. Pre-CyberKnife, one of two others had a laminectomy/partial facetectomy, then total facetectomy/fusion and the other, two supraclavicular approaches. The MPNST had a hemi-laminotomy then laminectomy/total facetectomy/fusion, followed by CyberKnife. Roots were preserved, except in two. Of 11 single-operation-peripheral nerve sheath tumors, the asymptomatic case remained stable, nine (92%) improved and one (9%) worsened. Examinations remained intact in three (27%) and improved in seven (64%). Two having a single operation then CyberKnife had improvement after both. Of two undergoing two operations, one had symptom resolution post-operatively, worsened 4 years post-CyberKnife then has remained unchanged after re-operation. The other such patient improved post-operatively, had no change after re-operation and improved post-CyberKnife. The MPNST had presentation improvement after the first operation, worsened and after the second surgery \and CyberKnife, the patient expired from tumor spread. In conclusion, surgery is beneficial for pain relief and function preservation in foraminal nerve sheath tumors. Open surgery with CyberKnife is an innovation in these tumors' management.
Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine in women with endometriosis.	Young women with endometriosis have reduced cortical and trabecular bone mineral density of the wrist compared with age-matched controls. This conclusion was based on 41 subjects from one geographical location. The purpose of this study was to test this finding in a larger, more geographically diverse population. One hundred women with laparoscopically proven endometriosis were enrolled in this study for the evaluation of the efficacy of nafarelin, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist. Patients were recruited from nine investigators across the United States and Canada, and bone mineral density of the lumbar spine was obtained at baseline, with 6 Hologic QDR (Hologic Inc., Waltham, MA) and a Lunar DPX (Lunar Radiation Corp., Madison, WI) instrument. The age of the women was 30.3 +/- 5.8 years (mean +/- SD); 91% were white. Bone mineral density of the lumbar spine was 1.1 +/- 0.11 g/cm2 (n = 85 Hologic QDR) and 1.2 +/- 0.93 g/cm2 (n = 15 Lunar DPX). Hologic bone mineral density was 104.8 +/- 11.0 and Lunar bone mineral density was 103.4% +/- 7.8% of normal values for age. To conclude, in a population based cross-sectional study of patients with endometriosis, we do not observe low bone mineral density of the lumbar spine by techniques that measure a combination of cortical and trabecular bone.
A functional-anatomical approach to the spine-pelvis mechanism: interaction between the biceps femoris muscle and the sacrotuberous ligament.	Summary. Sacroiliac joint dysfunction is often overlooked as a possible cause of low back pain. This is due to the use of reductionistic anatomical models. From a kinematic point of view, topographic anatomical models are generally inadequate since they categorize pelvis, lower vertebral column and legs as distinct entities. This functional-anatomical study focuses on the question whether anatomical connections between the biceps femoris muscle and the sacrotuberous ligament are kinematically useful. Forces applied to the tendon of the biceps femoris muscle, simulating biceps femoris muscle force, were shown to influence sacrotuberous ligament tension. Since sacrotuberous ligament tension influences sacroiliac joint kinematics, hamstring training could influence the sacroiliac joint and thus low back kinematics. The clinical implications with respect to 'short' hamstrings, pelvic instability and walking are discussed.
Vertebral column length and spread of hyperbaric subarachnoid bupivacaine in the term parturient.	Patient height is considered an important determinant of the dose of spinal anesthesia. However, the relationship between body height and the level of sensory anesthesia with a fixed dose of spinal anesthetic has not been clearly documented. Recent evidence suggests no correlation between height or weight of parturients and spread of spinal anesthesia. Vertebral column length rather than body height may be more important in determining anesthetic spread. We studied the correlation between vertebral length measured from C7 to the level of the iliac crest (IC) and to the sacral hiatus (SH) and the sensory anesthetic level after the subarachnoid administration of 12 mg hyperbaric bupivacaine in term pregnant patients. There was no correlation between patient height, weight or body mass index and sensory anesthesia level. However, a significant correlation existed between vertebral length measured from C7 to IC (r = 0.32, p = 0.025) or to SH (r = 0.38, p = 0.006) and the level of anesthesia.
Automated localization and identification of lower spinal anatomy in magnetic resonance images.	Clinical interpretation of the subtle changes present in MR images in the setting of disease currently relies on subjective image analysis. Image evaluation could potentially be improved by computerized segmentation and precise quantification of the image anatomy. However, this cannot be automated unless reliable navigation within an image is established, capable of compensating for unpredictable factors such as anatomical variability, positioning of an image plane in the body, and variable image characteristics. Focusing on the lower spinal region, this paper explores the presence of image- and anatomy-invariant features which facilitate automated, unconstrained identification, and localization of basic lower spine anatomy.
Trunk positioning accuracy in the frontal and sagittal planes.	The accuracy with which the head and spine could be positioned in the frontal and sagittal planes relative to the pelvis was measured and compared in ten healthy adult males. Subjects were tested with eyes closed, while standing with their pelvis externally restrained. The positions of markers, attached to the back of the head and over each of the T1, T6, T11, and L3 spinous processes, were measured to the nearest mm using strain-gaged flexible beam transducers. Subjects were tested for their accuracy in sensing return of the trunk to an initial neutral position under different test conditions. Results showed that positioning was 16-45% more accurate in the frontal than in the sagittal plane, although the difference did not reach statistical significance. T1 could be centered to within 7 and 10 mm in the frontal and sagittal planes, respectively. No significant differences were found between active and passive positioning accuracies. Presence of an external trunk moment did not significantly affect trunk positioning accuracy, although it systematically caused overshoot of the neutral position. Lastly, lateral trunk shifts exceeding 12 mm may be classified as abnormal in young adults.
Tissue segmentation for three-dimensional display of human spines.	This paper presents a morphological tissue segmentation technique for the three-dimensional visualization of the human spine. Magnetic resonance images of the human spine were obtained using motion-compensated fast imaging with steady-state free precession (FISP) pulse sequences. The images acquired with these sequences exhibit very high contrast between the bright cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and the dark spinal cord and nerve roots. This phenomenon has enabled us to apply mathematical morphological processing techniques to extract the spinal nerve roots within the CSF space. The nerve roots were extracted from a set of slices and displayed in a three-dimensional format.
The subdural space of the spine: A lymphatic sink? Myodil's last message.	Following the radiological study of a large number of myelograms, starting over 50 years ago when the only clinical contrast medium available to show the contents of the spinal canal was an iodized oil, the author has collected a number of examples where the oil was inadvertently injected into the subdural area, rather than the intended subarachnoid space. By taking follow-up films at various intervals following the inadvertent injection, it has been possible to study the extent to which the subdural space could become visualized from a lumbar injection, the contrast medium sometimes passing to the top of the cervical region and the lower part of the sacrum. Also, the contrast passed outward along the peri-neural lymphatic sheaths or spaces of the issuing spinal nerves, where it might remain for months, and under the influence of gravity it could extend for a considerable way. It also passed into abdominal and thoracic lymph vessels and nodes. Considering the morphology, predictability, and ease with which the demonstrated subdural space fills, the author concludes that the subdural region is a true and functionally significant "space," and an important conduit or functional part of the body's lymphatic system. He also considers that it has implications for the spread or dissemination of various organisms, substances or pathological conditions, as well as being part of the normal conduit for reabsorption of CSF with implications for hydrocephalus, and with potential for misplacement of spinal anaesthetic agents.
Morphological and meristic evaluation of the population structure of Anguilla marmorata across its range.	The population structure of the giant mottled eel Anguilla marmorata was evaluated using statistical analysis of 21 morphological characters among 13 representative localities across the Indo-Pacific region and as far north as Japan. There were no clear differences in 15 proportional and six vertebral characters using principal component analysis. The total number of vertebrae (N(V)) of A. marmorata at these localities had the widest variation among the morphological and meristic characters examined. A statistical analysis of the N(V) of 1238 specimens from 14 localities that included previously published data found significant differences among Micronesia, French Polynesia and other localities, and between localities in the North Pacific and South Pacific regions. Few differences were detected between specimens from the Indian Ocean and the North Pacific or South Pacific regions. The differences in N(V) among some regions and the population genetic studies of this species indicate that there are at least four populations of A. marmorata (North Pacific, Micronesia, Indian Ocean and South Pacific), which appear to include metapopulation structures in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific. This population structure is consistent with the ocean current patterns in each region and the evolution of migration loops of each spawning population.
Digital fabrication of multi-material biomedical objects.	This paper describes a multi-material virtual prototyping (MMVP) system for modelling and digital fabrication of discrete and functionally graded multi-material objects for biomedical applications. The MMVP system consists of a DMMVP module, an FGMVP module and a virtual reality (VR) simulation module. The DMMVP module is used to model discrete multi-material (DMM) objects, while the FGMVP module is for functionally graded multi-material (FGM) objects. The VR simulation module integrates these two modules to perform digital fabrication of multi-material objects, which can be subsequently visualized and analysed in a virtual environment to optimize MMLM processes for fabrication of product prototypes. Using the MMVP system, two biomedical objects, including a DMM human spine and an FGM intervertebral disc spacer are modelled and digitally fabricated for visualization and analysis in a VR environment. These studies show that the MMVP system is a practical tool for modelling, visualization, and subsequent fabrication of biomedical objects of discrete and functionally graded multi-materials for biomedical applications. The system may be adapted to control MMLM machines with appropriate hardware for physical fabrication of biomedical objects.
The intracranial denticulate ligament: anatomical study with neurosurgical significance.	Knowledge of the detailed anatomy of the craniocervical junction is important to neurosurgeons. To the authors' knowledge, no study has addressed the detailed anatomy of the intracranial (first) denticulate ligament and its intracranial course and relationships.
A radiofrequency coil configuration for imaging the human vertebral column at 7 T.	We describe the design and testing of a quadrature transmit, eight-channel receive array RF coil configuration for the acquisition of images of the entire human spinal column at 7 T. Imaging parameters were selected to enable data acquisition in a clinically relevant scan time. Large field-of-view (FOV) scanning enabled sagittal imaging of the spine in two or three-stations, depending upon the height of the volunteer, with a total scan time of between 10 and 15 min. A total of 10 volunteers have been scanned, with results presented for the three subjects spanning the range of heights and weights, namely one female (1.6 m, 50 kg), one average male (1.8 m, 70 kg), and one large male (1.9 m, 100 kg).
Variability and constraint in the mammalian vertebral column.	Patterns of vertebral variation across mammals have seldom been quantified, making it difficult to test hypotheses of covariation within the axial skeleton and mechanisms behind the high level of vertebral conservatism among mammals. We examined variation in vertebral counts within 42 species of mammals, representing monotremes, marsupials and major clades of placentals. These data show that xenarthrans and afrotherians have, on average, a high proportion of individuals with meristic deviations from species' median series counts. Monotremes, xenarthrans, afrotherians and primates show relatively high variation in thoracolumbar vertebral count. Among the clades sampled in our dataset, rodents are the least variable, with several species not showing any deviations from median vertebral counts, or vertebral anomalies such as asymmetric ribs or transitional vertebrae. Most mammals show significant correlations between sacral position and length of the rib cage; only a few show a correlation between sacral position and number of sternebrae. The former result is consistent with the hypothesis that adult axial skeletal structures patterned by distinct mesodermal tissues are modular and covary; the latter is not. Variable levels of correlation among these structures may indicate that the boundaries of prim/abaxial mesodermal precursors of the axial skeleton are not uniform across species. We do not find evidence for a higher frequency of vertebral anomalies in our sample of embryos or neonates than in post-natal individuals of any species, contrary to the hypothesis that stabilizing selection plays a major role in vertebral patterning.
Optimization of the number of selectable channels for spine phased array coils for transverse imaging.	The aim of this study was to investigate whether the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in transverse images acquired from spine phased array coils is improved by deactivating coils distant from the imaging region and to identify the optimum coil settings.
Elongation of the body in eels.	The shape of the body affects how organisms move, where they live, and how they feed. One body plan that has long engaged the interest of both evolutionary biologists and functional morphologists is axial elongation. There is a growing interest in the correlates and evolution of elongation within different terrestrial and aquatic vertebrate clades. At first glance, Anguilliformes may appear to exhibit a single cylindrical form but there is considerable diversity underlying this seemingly simplified body plan. Here, we explore evolution of the axial skeleton in 54 anguilliform taxa and some close relatives. We describe the diversity of axial elongation as well as investigate how characters such as head length, branchial-arch length, and shape of the pectoral fins correlate with vertebral number to possibly facilitate changes in absolute diameter of the body. Overall, we find that precaudal vertebral numbers and caudal vertebral numbers are evolving independently across elopomorph fishes. We also find that precaudal and caudal vertebral aspect ratios are evolving together across elopomorph fishes. When focusing within Anguilliformes we find striking diversity in the mechanisms of elongation of the body, including almost every trend for axial elongation known within actinopterygian fishes. The three major clades of eels we examined have slightly different mechanisms of elongation. We also find a suite of morphological characters associated with elongation in anguilliform fishes that appears to coincide with a more fossorial lifestyle such as high elongation ratios, a more posteriorly extended-branchial region, and a reduction in the size of the pectoral fins. Lastly, we point out that a diverse range of derived behaviors such as head- and tail-first burrowing, rotational feeding, and knotting around prey are only found in long cylindrical vertebrates.
Sound production and mechanism in Heniochus chrysostomus (Chaetodontidae).	The diversity in calls and sonic mechanisms appears to be important in Chaetodontidae. Calls in Chaetodon multicinctus seem to include tail slap, jump, pelvic fin flick and dorsal-anal fin erection behaviors. Pulsatile sounds are associated with dorsal elevation of the head, anterior extension of the ventral pectoral girdle and dorsal elevation of the caudal skeleton in Forcipiger flavissiumus. In Hemitaurichthys polylepis, extrinsic swimbladder muscles could be involved in sounds originating from the swimbladder and correspond to the inward buckling of tissues situated dorsally in front of the swimbladder. These examples suggest that this mode of communication could be present in other members of the family. Sounds made by the pennant bannerfish (Heniochus chrysostomus) were recorded for the first time on coral reefs and when fish were hand held. In hand-held fishes, three types of calls were recorded: isolated pulses (51%), trains of four to 11 pulses (19%) and trains preceded by an isolated pulse (29%). Call frequencies were harmonic and had a fundamental frequency between 130 and 180 Hz. The fundamental frequency, sound amplitude and sound duration were not related to fish size. Data from morphology, sound analysis and electromyography recordings highlight that the calls are made by extrinsic sonic drumming muscles in association with the articulated bones of the ribcage. The pennant bannerfish system differs from other Chaetodontidae in terms of sound characteristics, associated body movements and, consequently, mechanism.
Effects of a posture-sensing air seat device (PSASD) on kinematics and trunk muscle activity during continuous computer work.	The prevalence and incidence of musculoskeletal disorders is high with computer workers, and poor sitting posture can be considered a factor contributing to low back discomfort. In the clinical literature, maintaining a neutral spinal curvature has been considered an optimal sitting posture. This study investigated the flexion and lateral flexion of trunk movements and trunk muscle activity during computer work with and without a posture-sensing air seat device (PSASD). By sensing a certain amount of increased pressure over the baseline, posture-related visual feedback was given to participants through the PSASD. Eleven regular computer workers participated in this study. PSASD had the function of alerting the subject to their poor posture by using visual feedback. Subjects performed 20 min of computer work with and without a PSASD. Surface electromyography was used to measure the activity of the erector spine and internal abdominal oblique. Kinematic data were obtained using an electrogoniometer. The results showed that the mean of trunk flexion and lateral flexion was significantly reduced with PSASD. The activity of the erector spine and internal oblique was significantly higher with the PSASD than without. Our findings indicated that the PSASD helps to prevent habitual poor posture by maintaining an erect sitting posture during prolonged computer work.
Flexion relaxation of erector spinae response to spinal shrinkage.	The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of spinal shrinkage on the characteristic of flexion relaxation phenomenon in erector spinae muscle. Twelve male university students volunteered for this study. The spinal shrinkage was created with a load of 20% body weight on shoulder in 10 min. Each performed three trials of lumbar flexion-extension with the cycle of 5s flexion and 5s extension in standing before and after shrinkage. Surface electromyography from right erector spinae muscle as well as trunk flexion performance was recorded synchronously in video camera. A one-way ANOVA with repeated measures was used to evaluate the effect of shrinkage. The results showed that there was a significant (p<0.001) stature change with mean magnitude of shrinkage 5.9 mm. The erector spinae was active through a significantly larger angle during flexion and began activity significantly earlier during extension after shrinkage. It was concluded that shrinkage caused by prolonged compressive loading will elicit the change of flexion relaxation characteristic, which may be closely related to low back disorder.
An algorithm for defining the onset and cessation of the flexion-relaxation phenomenon in the low back musculature.	The flexion-relaxation phenomenon (FRP) in the low back provides insights into the interplay between the active and passive tissues. Establishing a reliable algorithm for defining the lumbar angle at which the muscles deactivate and reactivate was the focus of the current paper. First, the EMG data were processed using six different smoothing techniques (no smoothing, moving average, moving standard deviation, Butterworth low pass filter at 0.5 Hz, 5 Hz, and 50 Hz) herein called the processed EMG (pEMG). The FRP points were then defined using four thresholds (pEMG less than 3% MVC, pEMG less than 5% MVC, pEMG less than 2 times FRP pEMG, and pEMG less than 3 times FRP pEMG). Finally, a duration requirement was tested (no duration requirement, pEMG data must maintain threshold requirement for 50 data points). Each combination of smoothing, threshold, and duration were applied through a computer program to each muscle for all trials and established an EMG-off and EMG-on angle for each muscle. These estimates were compared to the gold standard of expert-identified EMG-off and EMG-on angles and the root mean square error (RMSE) between this gold standard and the predictions of the algorithms served as the dependent variable. The results showed that the most important factor to produce low values of RMSE is to utilize a Butterworth low pass filter of 5 Hz or less and, if this is employed, there is no value to a duration requirement. The results also suggest that using the "3 times FRP pEMG" threshold technique may provide further improvements in these predictions.
Automatic recognition of surface landmarks of anatomical structures of back and posture.	Faulty postures, scoliosis and sagittal plane deformities should be detected as early as possible to apply preventive and treatment measures against major clinical consequences. To support documentation of the severity of deformity and diminish x-ray exposures, several solutions utilizing analysis of back surface topography data were introduced. A novel approach to automatic recognition and localization of anatomical landmarks of the human back is presented that may provide more repeatable results and speed up the whole procedure. The algorithm was designed as a two-step process involving a statistical model built upon expert knowledge and analysis of three-dimensional back surface shape data. Voronoi diagram is used to connect mean geometric relations, which provide a first approximation of the positions, with surface curvature distribution, which further guides the recognition process and gives final locations of landmarks. Positions obtained using the developed algorithms are validated with respect to accuracy of manual landmark indication by experts. Preliminary validation proved that the landmarks were localized correctly, with accuracy depending mostly on the characteristics of a given structure. It was concluded that recognition should mainly take into account the shape of the back surface, putting as little emphasis on the statistical approximation as possible.
Factors influencing segmental lumbar lordosis after lateral transpsoas interbody fusion.	Although contributions to sagittal alignment have been characterized for anterior, posterior and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion, sagittal alignment after lateral transpsoas interbody fusion (LTIF) has not yet been characterized. This study examined the ability of LTIF to restore lumbar lordosis and identified factors associated with change in sagittal alignment.
Extrapleural catheters: an effective alternative for treating postoperative pain for thoracic surgical patients.	Pain control is an important aspect of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) procedures. Offering an effective and low-risk method of postoperative pain control is thus vital to a patient's recovery. Hotta and colleagues report the results of a clinical study comparing efficacy of epidurals vs extrapleural catheters in VATS procedures. They found that extrapleural catheters provided equivalent postoperative pain relief when compared to thoracic epidural catheters.
The young adult spine in sports.	In summary, LBP is a common problem for the young adult athlete, with discogenic pain being the most common of all etiologies. Although rare, more serious etiologies such as tumor or infection should be included in the differential diagnosis until effectively ruled out. Regardless of the cause, nonoperative and conservative strategies should be the cornerstone of treatment, owing to the favorable natural history of most LBP etiologies. Short-term non-narcotic medications are helpful, and avoidance of bed rest is critical for the athletic population. Rehabilitation should focus on stabilization and strengthening of the core and pelvic muscle groups, and biomechanical imbalances should be addressed. Surgical intervention ought to be utilized as a last resort in this population. Return to play should be considered only when the athlete is pain free with full range of motion and daily medications have been discontinued. Careful monitoring of the training regimen should always be undertaken,especially with chronic pain or recurrent injuries.
Importance of sarcomere length when determining muscle physiological cross-sectional area: a spine example.	Muscle physiological cross-sectional area predicts the maximum capability of a muscle to generate isometric force. Biomechanical models often use estimates of individual muscle physiological cross-sectional area to partition internal forces among different muscles and predict joint forces and stability. In the spine literature, these physiological cross-sectional area values are generally obtained from imaging or cadaveric studies that have not accounted for a potential lengthened or shortened (and thus thinned or thickened, respectively) state of the muscles in question. Sarcomere length measurements can be used to normalize muscle lengths and correct for these length discrepancies. This article was designed to demonstrate potential effects of not accounting for instantaneous sarcomere length when calculating the physiological cross-sectional area of muscles of the spine region. Because some muscles of the spine region appear to be shortened and others lengthened in the neutral spine posture, both over- and under-estimations of physiological cross-sectional area are possible. Specifically, it is shown that the muscle physiological cross-sectional area could be over-estimated or under-estimated by as much as + 36% (multifidus) and -21% (rectus abdominis), respectively. This differential error effect poses difficulties in accurately estimating individual muscle forces and subsequent spine forces and stability that result from biomechanical models incorporating physiological cross-sectional area data obtained in the absence of sarcomere length measurements. Future work is needed to measure the dynamic range of sarcomere lengths of all spinal muscles to ensure correct inputs to biomechanical models.
Traps in spinal MR imaging.	There are many traps in spinal MRI in part related to the technique but also due to the existence of anatomical variations, lesions which are difficult to confirm because of non-specific signs, and sometimes rare conditions.
Changes in spino-pelvic alignment after surgical treatment of isthmic spondylolisthesis.	To analyze the changes in spino-pelvic parameters after surgical treatment of lumbar isthmic spondylolisthesis.
Effects of intermittent traction therapy in an experimental spinal column model.	Traction therapy, which is known to be a treatment method for scoliosis, one of many muscles disease, has been used since Hippocrates introduced it. However, the effects of traction therapy are still not clear. In addition, the meridian sinew theory, which is related to muscle treatment and is mentioned in the book on meridian sinews in the Miraculous Pivot of Huangdi's Internal Classic, has not been the subject of much study. For these reasons, experimental spinal models were made for this study to observe and analyze the lengths of vertebral interspaces after intermittent traction therapy, which is known to be excellent among muscle treatment methods, with various tensile forces. The results showed that the effects of intermittent traction therapy were unclear and that it might be harmful, especially when the pain was induced by muscle weakness. Because the results of this study on intermittent traction therapy were different from those expected from osteopathy or craniosacral theory, better studies of the subject are necessary. 
Soft tissue artefacts of the human back: comparison of the sagittal curvature of the spine measured using skin markers and an open upright MRI.	Soft tissue artefact affects the determination of skeletal kinematics. Thus, it is important to know the accuracy and limitations of kinematic parameters determined and modelled based on skin marker data. Here, the curvature angles, as well as the rotations of the lumbar and thoracic segments, of seven healthy subjects were determined in the sagittal plane using a skin marker set and compared to measurements taken in an open upright MRI scanner in order to understand the influence of soft tissue artefact at the back. The mean STA in the flexed compared to the extended positions were 10.26.1 mm (lumbar)/9.34.2 mm (thoracic) and 10.74.8 mm (lumbar)/9.24.9 mm (thoracic) respectively. A linear regression of the lumbar and thoracic curvatures between the marker-based measurements and MRI-based measurements resulted in coefficients of determination, R2, of 0.552 and 0.385 respectively. Skin marker measurements therefore allow for the assessment of changes in the lumbar and thoracic curvature angles, but the absolute values suffer from uncertainty. Nevertheless, this marker set appears to be suitable for quantifying lumbar and thoracic spinal changes between quasi-static whole body postural changes. 
A device to indicate anatomical level in computed tomography.	A device was designed that makes possible direct anatomical correlation between the computed tomography scan and radiographic scout films. The acrylic-air groove approach used here eliminates the possibility of producing image degrading artifacts as is common with catheter type markers.
The contribution of the three columns of the spine to rotational stability. A biomechanical model.	A function of the spine as a structural column is its ability to resist torsion. The goal of this study was to evaluate the contribution of the columns of the spine to torsional rigidity. Ten human cadaver spines were harvested and frozen. The specimens, consisting of segments from T11 to S1, were subjected to torsional loads of up to 20 N-m. Rotation was recorded throughout the loading cycle. The columns of the spine were destroyed at the L2-3 interspace in a predetermined fashion and loading was repeated. The data were plotted as torsion versus rotation in degrees. The curves of each loading cycle were compared and the ratios of the intact and compromised specimens were calculated. The contribution of each column of the spine to torsional rigidity was determined. In an intact lumbar spine, the anulus was the most effective structure in resisting torsion. Experience gained in this study supports the following conclusion: Flexion-distraction injuries of the thoracolumbar and lumbar spine involving soft tissue destruction of the anterior column and anulus result in rotational instability.
Segmental analysis of the sagittal plane alignment of the normal thoracic and lumbar spines and thoracolumbar junction.	Recent advances in spinal instrumentation have brought about a new emphasis on the three-dimensional spinal deformity of scoliosis and especially on the restoration of normal sagittal plane contours. Normal alignment in the coronal and transverse planes is easily defined; however, normal sagittal plane alignment is not so simple. This retrospective study was undertaken to increase the understanding of the normal alignment of the spine in the sagittal plane, with a special emphasis on the thoracolumbar junction. Measurements were made from the lateral radiographs of 102 subjects with clinically and radiographically normal spines. Cobb measurements of the thoracic kyphosis (T3-T12), the thoracolumbar junction (T10-T12 and T12-L2), and the lumbar lordosis (L1-L5) were determined. The spices of the thoracic kyphosis and lumbar lordosis also were determined. Using a computerized digitalizing table, the segmental angulation was determined at each level from T1-2 to L5-S1. In conclusion, there is a wide range of normal sagittal alignment of the thoracic and lumbar spines. When using composite measurements of the combined frontal and sagittal plane deformity of scoliosis, this wide range of sagittal variance should be taken into consideration. Using norms established here for segmental alignment, areas of hypokyphosis and hypolordosis commonly seen in scoliosis can be more objectively evaluated. The thoracolumbar junction is for all practical purposes straight; lumbar lordosis usually starts at L1-2 and gradually increases at each level caudally to the sacrum.
Ligamentum flavum: appearance on sagittal and coronal MR images.	The appearance of the ligamentum flavum on sagittal and coronal magnetic resonance (MR) images has not been described in detail in the radiologic literature. The authors reviewed correlative MR images and anatomic sections obtained with a cryomicrotome in 20 cadavers in order to analyze anatomic relationships, variations, and progressive degenerative changes of the ligamentum flavum in the lumbar region. MR imaging showed the ligamentum flavum as an intermediate-signal-intensity structure on images obtained with short and long repetition times (TRs). Sagittal short TR images were effective for evaluating relationships between the ligamentum flavum, spinal canal, and nerve roots. Degenerative changes in the ligamentum flavum appeared as changes in shape or thickness of the ligaments on MR images. Calcification and fat infiltration, which were well depicted on anatomic sections, were not visualized on MR images.
Improving MR image quality in the presence of motion by using rephasing gradients.	Numerous techniques exist for suppressing ghosting artifacts due to respiratory motion on MR images. Although such methods can remove coherent ghosting artifacts, motion during gradient pulses also leads to poor image quality. This is due to phase variations at the echo caused by changes in velocity from one phase-encoding view to the next. The effect becomes severe for long sampling times and long TE values and can lead to low estimates of T2. We discuss general, robust modifications of the standard gradient or spin-echo sequences by using rephasing gradients that force the phase of constant-velocity moving spins to be zero at the echo. These sequences lead to a significant reduction in motion artifacts and hence improvement in image quality. They can be applied to multislice, multiecho, water/fat, and gating schemes as well. Since motion problems are universal, it would appear that these modified sequences should come into common usage for MR imaging.
Optimizing conventional MR imaging of the spine.	With the use of conventional spin-echo pulse sequences with a long repetition time (TR), the echo time (TE) and the number of echoes were varied to minimize cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow artifacts in a spine phantom and in cervical spines of three volunteers. The following echo trains were compared in both axial and sagittal planes with a TR of 2,000 msec: TE of 25, 80 msec ("asymmetric"); TE of 40, 80 msec ("symmetric long TE"); and TE of 20, 40, 60, and 80 msec ("symmetric short TE"). Variable degrees of even-echo rephasing of CSF flow artifacts were observed during sagittal but not axial imaging, depending on the echo train used. Even-echo rephasing was most complete with the symmetric short-TE echo train, less complete with the symmetric long-TE echo train, and absent with the asymmetric echo train. Switching the orientation of the phase and frequency encoding gradients and slightly modifying TR on the basis of the heart rate further improved image quality. The results suggest that a symmetric short-TE echo train may be used to provide velocity compensation (similar to that observed with rephasing gradients) on even echoes of conventional spin-echo pulse sequences during spine imaging.
CSF-gated MR imaging of the spine: theory and clinical implementation.	A spine phantom and cervical spines of seven volunteers were studied with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-gated magnetic resonance imaging to optimize acquisition factors reducing CSF flow artifacts. Peripheral gating was performed with either an infrared reflectance photoplethysmograph or peripheral arterial Doppler signal. The effects of effective repetition time, echo train, trigger delay, number of sections, and imaging plane on image quality were evaluated. Gated imaging of oscillatory CSF motion simulated constant-velocity flow and reduced CSF flow artifacts caused by cardiac-dependent temporal phase-shift effects. Velocity compensation on sagittal even-echo images with a symmetric short-echo time echo train reduced the remaining CSF flow artifacts caused by spatial phase-shift effects. Overall gated imaging time was not increased compared with nongated imaging and was reduced when improved image quality permitted the use of fewer excitations. These results suggest that the combination of CSF gating and flow compensation is clinically useful and efficient because it improves image quality without prolonging imaging time.
Analysis of the asymmetrically loaded spine by means of a continuum beam model.	A continuum beam model of the human spine, proposed by Hjalmars (Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Continuum Models of Discrete Systems, 1981), and earlier used by the present author as a tool for the analysis of mild functional scoliosis, is here used for the study of a spine, asymmetrically loaded in the frontal plane. In order to validate the theoretical predictions of the model, preliminary experiments are carried out, which show that the model fairly well describes the lateral curvatures that occur when, for various loading conditions, the spine is adjusted into a muscle-relaxed state of equilibrium. Values of the flexural rigidity estimated from the experiments are found to be in reasonable agreement with values, estimated from earlier observations on dead material, reported in the literature. The experiments also indicate that the model may be developed to a tool for estimations of the effective flexural rigidity of the spine in vivo.
Surface coil with variable geometry: a new tool for MR imaging of the spine.	A switchable-array surface coil for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the spine has been built that enables the user to change the working size of the coil depending on the volume of interest. The prototype has achieved similar image quality to that obtained with conventional coils of equal size. This type of antenna may reduce the number of individual coils necessary for a high-quality MR imaging study.
Clinical applications of an instrument of resistive-type magnetic resonance of new design]	In Magnetic Resonance, resistive magnets give a poorer image quality than superconductive magnets, due to the lower magnetic field strength, uniformity and stability of resistive magnets. However, recent developments in resistive magnet technology have improved the field strength, as well as its uniformity and stability. The aim of this paper is to report the preliminary results of a new resistive magnet based on a iron core technology with transverse field orientation, operating at 0.38 T. The clinical experience based on about 200 studies of the brain, spinal cord, cervical, thoracic, lumbo-sacral spine, heart, abdomen and joints was promising in most clinical applications with results comparable to those of superconductive magnets with a similar field strength.
The vertebral cartilaginous endplate of the preadult rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta). A correlative scanning electron-and light-microscopic study.	The microanatomy of the preadult rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) vertebral cartilaginous endplate was investigated with scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy. The plate contains three zones: an outer noncalcified zone adjacent to the intervertebral disc, a middle zone of acellular islands of calcification surrounded by cellular hyaline cartilage, and an inner zone resembling a cartilaginous growth plate. Fibers from the annulus fibrosus pass through an outer zone into the middle zone. Trabecular bone of a developing annular epiphysis is present in the periphery of the plate. Vertical columns of cartilage traverse the nuclear region of the endplate and occasionally surround blood vessels. These columns and their associated blood vessels probably represent notochordal and fetal blood vessel remnants.
Greater vertebral bone mineral mass in exercising young men.	Peak bone mass at skeletal maturity may be an important factor in the relative quantity of skeletal mass in old age. We have studied bone mineral in 46 young men, 28 of whom engage in regular and vigorous exercise programs. Spinal trabecular bone mineral density and spinal integral bone mineral content are significantly greater in the exercise group as compared with the 18 control subjects. Of the exercise group, subjects participating in both aerobic and weight-bearing regimens have the greatest spinal bone mineral mass, followed by those engaging in strictly weight-bearing exercise and those in a primarily aerobic program. An analysis of variance across all subject groups, including the control group, shows a significant difference in spinal trabecular bone density based on the type of physical activity.
Sagittal profiles of the spine.	The sagittal plane of the growing spine was studied from standardized radiographs of 670 normal subjects to establish standards of reference for thoracic kyphosis, lumbosacral lordosis, and sacral inclination. Cobb's method of measuring spinal deformities was compared with new indices of kyphosis and lordosis that take into consideration the length and width of each curve. Boys and girls had comparable degrees of kyphosis. Although girls initially had higher degrees of lordosis and sacral inclination, by maturity these measurements were similar in both sexes. Significant correlations were found between kyphosis and lordosis and between lordosis and sacral inclination, indicating that these curvatures tend to balance each other.
Asymmetrical head-turning of preterm infants: some effects on later postural and functional lateralities.	Asymmetrical head-turning and its effects on subsequent functional lateralities and postural asymmetries were examined in 44 relatively low-risk preterm and 53 fullterm infants. Persisting head-turning to the right was observed more often among preterm infants, as was an asymmetrical skull with flattened right occiput and head-turning to the right. Asymmetrical trunk posture was present in 20 preterm and four fullterm infants. At nine months right-hand preference was more marked in preterm infants, and hand preference was well coincident with head-turning. Changes in hand preference occurred more often among fullterm infants. Asymmetrical gait seemed to correlate with head-turning in preterm infants.
Scoliosis angle. Conceptual basis and proposed definition.	The most commonly used methods of assessing the scoliotic deviation measure angles that are not clearly defined in relation to the anatomy of the patient. In order to give an anatomic basis for such measurements it is proposed to define the scoliotic deviation as the deviation the vertebral column makes with the sagittal plane. Both the Copp and the Ferguson angles may be based on this definition. The present methods of measurement are then attempts to measure these angles. If the plane of these angles is parallel to the film, the measurement will be correct. Errors in the measurements may be incurred by the projection. A hypothetical projection, called a 'rectified orthogonal projection', is presented, which correctly represents all scoliotic angles in accordance with these principles. It can be constructed in practice with the aid of a computer and by performing measurements on two projections of the vertebral column; a scoliotic curve can be represented independent of the kyphosis and lordosis.
Imaging the nonlinear ultrasonic parameter of a medium.	A technique for imaging the nonlinear ultrasonic parameter B/A has been developed. The nonlinear parameter describes the dependence of ultrasonic velocity on pressure and may well provide a new and powerful tool for characterizing both biological and nonbiological media. Our approach is based on observing the interaction of two ultrasonic waves with different frequencies and power levels. A low frequency pump wave, with power level suitable for medical diagnosis (1 mW/cm2), is used to sinusoidally modulate the sound pressure over the region of interest. A much lower intensity high-frequency probe beam is propagated perpendicularly to the pump beam. The phase of the probe wave is modified in proportion to the integral of the product of the nonlinear parameter B/A and the pressure of the pump wave, which varies sinusoidally along the probe beam. This phase change provides a Fourier component of the distribution of the nonlinear parameter B/A for the spatial frequency corresponding to the inverse of the pump wavelength. By changing the frequency of the pump waves, the spatial frequency is changed and a set of spatial Fourier coefficients of the distribution of the nonlinear parameter B/A is obtained. An inverse operation then gives the one-dimensional image along the probe beam. If the probe beam is scanned mechanically, the entire cross-sectional image is obtained. Several images of the nonlinear parameter of biological objects were generated with our system. To our knowledge, these represent the first images of the nonlinear parameter to be reported in the literature. The nonlinear parameter of water was also measured and agreed well with values obtained by other techniques.
Prevertebral hematoma in cervical spine injury: incidence and etiologic significance.	In a consecutive series of 30 hospitalized cervical injury patients, 18 proved to have widening of the prevertebral soft tissue space due to hematoma. The upper limit of normal width in 50 noninjury patients was used as a reference. Hematoma almost exclusively manifested at C1-C4 and proved to be closely related to fractures of anterior elements of the spine. Relatively small hematomas were encountered in odontoid fractures and compression fractures of vertebral bodies; relatively large hematoma in disruptive hyperextension injury. Large hematomas are explained by extensive anterior ligamentous damage with rupture of larger blood vessels. As a rule, most hematomas disappeared within 2 weeks after the injury.
A method of locating the plane of CT scans of the abdomen.	Localization of the level of computed tomography (CT) sections and identification of the anatomical structures are prerequisites in the diagnostic process, A two-step method is described by which it is possible to determine quickly the plane of the CT scan of the abdomen using the spine as the reference landmark. The first step is to locate the level at which the vertebra under consideration is sectioned. The second, which consists of identifying the particular vertebra, is made by studying the topographical features of certain groups of paraspinal muscles, comprising mainly the diaphragmatic crura, psoas muscles, quadratus, lumborum, and the sacrospinalis.
Surgical approach to the whole length of the vertebral artery with special reference to the third portion.	A lateral route between the SCM and the lateral border of the internal jugular vein is defined from an anatomical study for exposure of the VA. It offers the simplest route for controlling any part or the whole length of the VA, including its intracranial portion. Surgical indications are discussed on the basis of our experience in eight cases with, in all cases, control of the VA in its third segment between C2 and the foramen magnum. Arteriovenous malformations are the most frequent indications; two cases were treated by direct approach and one by exclusion and anastomosis between the internal carotid artery and the vertebral artery at C1-C2. TUmours of the lateral cervical space (one haemangiopericytoma and one jugular glomus tumour) or of the posterior fossa extruding out of the foramen magnum or the jugular foramen (one meningioma) may require control of the VA. Traumatic lesions (one case) or compression by an osteophytic spur are also indications for this approach. Wall lesions of the VA (aneurysm or stenosis) are best treated by exclusion and anastomosis between either the carotid or the subclavian artery and the vertebral artery at C1-C2 level. One case of aneurysmal dysplasia was cured by anastomosis between the subclavian artery and the vertebral artery at C1-C2 with a saphenous vein graft and clipping of the VA proximal to the by-pass. Radiological examinations are fundamental for diagnosis, treatment when embolization is necessary, and choice of surgical treatment, according to the importance of the contralateral VA and the medullary branches.
Preliminary study of the human lumbar spine using speckle technique. Limits of compression, shear and torsion. Speckle photography--electronic speckle pattern interferometry.	Optical techniques using single wavelength lasers allow precise study of the superficial displacements of deeper anatomical structures through direct mechanical pull. Two techniques have been used in this study: 1. Double exposure speckle photography. Since 1980 the relationship between the surface displacements and minimal traction applied to the transverse processes of the spine, either unilateral or bilateral, was studied in an attempt to simulate muscular action exerted at this level. 2. Computerised speckle interferometry. This allowed analysis of the deformations between the lumbar vertebrae under vertical compression, shear or torsion outside the usual anatomical planes. This preliminary study outlines the mechanical behaviour and the plasticity of the vertebral structures but has been performed on only a few anatomical specimens thus not allowing statistical analysis. This would require a larger series.
Scoliotic index: a comparative evaluation of methods for the measurement of scoliosis.	A new technique of measurement--Scoliotic Index(SI)--was devised to obtain more accurate determination of the spinal curvature. In comparison with previously established methods (Ferguson, Cobb), the SI is a more comprehensive and accurate representation of the scoliotic curve. It measures that the deviation of each involved vertebral segment from the vertical spinal lines with multiple points taken along the scoliotic curve. The development of this technique proved by serendipity that the Ferguson and Cobb measurements of the angle of scoliosis are reliable and comparable at all degrees of curvature.
A comparison of spinal ligaments--differences between bipeds and quadrupeds.	Following dissection, the spinal ligaments were observed in a selection of bipedal, pseudobipedal and quadrupedal animals during a search for an appropriate animal model for investigating the innervation of these ligaments. Midline spinal ligaments were found in all animals while lateral spinal ligaments could only be observed in bipedal (human) and pseudobipedal (avian) species. The presence of lateral spinal ligaments in these animals and their absence in quadrupeds suggests that the development of the lateral ligaments reflects a mechanical challenge unique to the erect spine and that these lateral spinal ligaments are fundamental to the stability of an erect posture.
Longus colli has a postural function on cervical curvature.	To determine the postural role of longus colli (LC) and dorsal neck muscles, we have studied the relationship between their cross-sectional areas related to their force of contraction and the lordosis and the length of the cervical spine. This study was carried out in 36 healthy subjects. Muscle cross-sectional areas were measured by computerized tomography. The index of lordosis and the length of the cervical spine were measured on an X-ray profile. The cross-sectional area of LC was correlated to the lordosis index (R = -0.432, p < 0.02) whereas all the other parameters were not correlated. The authors conclude that LC counteracts the lordosis increment related to the weight of the head and to the contraction of the dorsal neck muscles. Postural functions of LC and postcervical muscles are complementary. They form a sleeve which encloses and stabilizes the cervical spine in all positions of the head.
Development of the anal fin appendicular support in the western mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis affinis (Baird and Girard, 1854): a reinvestigation and reinterpretation.	Development of the sexually dimorphic anal fin appendicular support of an internal fertilizing bony fish Gambusia affinis affinis was investigated by staining whole-mounted embryos, immature, and adult female and male G. a. affinis with alizarin red S and alcian blue. The tissue was examined histologically to assess development of the amphicelous centrum and to verify specificity of the stains. Our data confirm earlier claims about the development of the male and female characteristics in this species, and we provide for the first time direct embryonic evidence suggesting that development of the sexually dimorphic anal fin appendicular support is biphasic: (1) anteriorization of the most anterior caudal segments, and (2) growth and elongation of hemal arches of vertebrae 14-16. The first process involves a sequential homeotic transformation of hemal arches of vertebrae 11-13 through resorption of mineralized connective tissue, thus forming parapophyses that bear pleural ribs. This process begins in undifferentiated embryos and proceeds similarly in postnatal males and females. During the same period, the second process, likely induced by male gonadal hormones, causes the addition of mineralized connective tissue at the hemal arches of vertebrae 14-16. This second process, which occurs only in males, elongates the hemal arches of vertebrae 14-16 anteriorly. This elongation apparently translocates the anal fin appendicular support (including parts of the hemal spine of the hemal arch of vertebra 13) to the level of vertebra 11. It appears that the developmental programs of both female and male G. a. affinis create an area of 6 vertebrae which are markedly different from any vertebrae anterior to 11 and posterior to 16. We propose to term the area including these vertebrae and the associated anal fin, the genital area. We also propose that the first process, homeotic transformation of caudal into precaudal segments, is regulated by differential expression of control genes, such as homeobox genes, whereas the second process is regulated by gene expression under the control of male gonadal hormones. Conflicting data in the literature can be resolved with this model. Appropriate tests of the model are proposed.
Torso morphology and locomotion in Proconsul nyanzae.	A new partial skeleton of Proconsul nyanzae from Mfangano Island, Kenya (KNM-MW 13142) includes five lumbar vertebrae, a partial sacrum, and nearly complete hipbone. Until recently, little was known of the axial and pelvic skeletons of Proconsul, or any early Miocene hominoid. Because torso morphology directly reflects locomotor behavior, these elements provide important new information about posture and locomotion of P. nyanzae. Two basic patterns of locomotor behavior and corresponding torso morphology exist among extant anthropoids. Monkeys have long, flexible spines with powerful epaxial muscles and mediolaterally narrow thoraces. This morphology represents a response to the mechanical requirements of habitual pronograde quadrupedalism. In contrast, hominoids, particularly great apes, have shorter, stiffer spines and broader torsos than do monkeys. The hominoid pattern reflects an emphasis on forelimb abduction-adduction, and on stability and control of the lower back during forelimb-dominated arboreal locomotion. KNM-MW 13142 had craniocaudally elongate vertebral bodies, and probably six lumbar vertebrae, reflecting a long, flexible vertebral column. The narrow, laterally facing iliac blades of KNM-MW 13142 imply the presence of a mediolaterally narrow, dorsoventrally deep thorax. Its wide iliac tuberosities, ventrally located lumbar transverse processes, and distinct accessory processes suggest that Proconsul nyanzae also had strap-like epaxial muscles similar to those characterizing most monkeys. Axial and pelvic morphology of KNM-MW 13142 indicate that P. nyanzae had not undergone an ape-like rearrangement of its torso to adapt to forelimb-dominated arboreality. Instead, P. nyanzae probably retained a more primitive pattern of pronograde quadrupedalism. This morphology indicates that the extant hominoid pattern of torso anatomy arose subsequent to the establishment of the hominid clade.
3D display of high resolution vertebral structure images.	A methodology for three-dimensional (3D) representation of vertebral trabecular structures was proposed. A set of X-ray CT images was obtained using a specific high resolution acquisition system. The images were then segmented in order to separate trabecular and cortical bone structures. Finally, the complex 3D surfaces were visualized using a volume rendering technique.
Pediatric spinal bone marrow: assessment of normal age-related changes in the MRI appearance.	A retrospective study of 100 children (0-15 years) without known bone marrow abnormality, was performed to elucidate the spectrum of the MRI appearance of spinal bone marrow with age on T1-weighted images at 0.5 T. Fatty marrow distribution and vertebral signal intensity (SI) relative to disk SI were noted in each subject, and allowed the identification of distinctive patterns. The spinal marrow patterns and their relative frequency for different age groups were consistent with the known physiologic conversion from cellular to fatty marrow with age. Between the ages of 0 and 1 year, SI of corporeal ossification centers was similar or lower than SI of adjacent cartilage and disk in 87% of cases. Between the ages of 5 and 15 years, vertebral SI was higher than SI of adjacent disks in 90% of cases. A central or basivertebral zone of high SI consistent with focal fatty marrow was found in 16% and 31% of cases respectively. In conclusion, knowledge of these conversion patterns should serve as a practical aid in the interpretation of MRI examinations of the spine in children.
Anatomical configuration of the spinal column in the supine position. III. Comparison of adolescent and adult volunteers.	To clarify the anatomical configuration of the spinal column in the adolescent in the supine position, we have studied 10 adolescent (13-17 yr) and 10 adult (26-38 yr) volunteers using magnetic resonance imaging. T1-weighted sagittal midline magnetic resonance images of the spinal column were obtained with subjects in the supine position. The maximum angles of decline of the lumbar spinal canal did not differ between the adolescent (mean 13.6 (SD 3.3) degrees) and adult (12.4 (3.8) degrees) groups. The maximum angles of incline of the upper thoracic spinal canal were smaller in the adolescent group (15.9 (4.7) degrees) than in the adult group (26.4 (5.8) degrees). The median highest point of the lumbar spinal canal was located at L4 (range L3-4 to L4-5) in both groups. The lowest points of the thoracic spinal canal in the adolescent and adult groups were located at T8-9 (T7 to T9) and T8 (T6-7 to T9), respectively. This study showed that thoracic kyphotic curvature in adolescents was reduced significantly in the supine position compared with that in adults. This minimized thoracic kyphosis may explain, in part, the enhanced cephalad spread of subarachnoid hyperbaric anaesthetic solutions in adolescents.
The inferior boundary condition of a continuous cantilever beam model of the human spine.	The continuous cantilever beam model of the human spine usually assumes that the beam tangent at the inferior end of the structure is exactly perpendicular to the surface in which it is built into. The model used in this paper allows for realistic imperfections in the beam so that a small non-zero rotation is allowed at its inferior end. Such a model is used to investigate the lateral deformation of the muscle-relaxed spine as it supports asymmetrical loads in the frontal plane. By comparing the model deformations with previously published results, it was easily seen how such imperfections can effect the solution quantitatively. This was found to be especially true when the model was used to estimate the gross flexural rigidity of the spine in the frontal plane. It could also explain why some spines are more prone to lateral curvature and instability than others. Considering the importance of such a parameter when used in the continuous model, an investigation into the true nature of the inferior model boundary condition could be warranted.
Star length distribution: a volume-based concept for the characterization of structural anisotropy.	Determination and quantification of anisotropy is of great interest in research fields dealing with physical structures or surface textures. In this paper, a volume-based method is presented, which essentially determines the mean object length in a certain direction for a typical point within a structure or texture. The mean object lengths for all orientations together form the so-called star length distribution (SLD). The validity and the accuracy of the SLD method are investigated, and illustrated by applying it to trabecular bone. By using a line sampling algorithm, the relation with other anisotropy measures could be studied analytically. Preliminary tests suggest that with SLD a more exact description of the mechanical properties of porous structures may be obtained than with other anisotropy measures. However, due to possible secondary orientations that become apparent with SLD, a fabric tensor must be of rank higher than two in order to properly describe an orthogonal structure mathematically.
Personal identification by X-ray views of the chest cavity]	The topical and unsolved problems of recognizing somebody's identity of dead and alive persons are outlined. An original procedure and algorithm of identity by the chest structural features revealed by X-ray study are proposed. Mathematical criteria for assessing the found individual signs to prove somebody's identity have been developed. An analysis has been made of 29 cases with the proposed procedure when the employment of conventional criminological and forensic medical methods was impossible due to significant injuries of the head and extremities in the corpse.
Biomechanical modeling of instrumentation for the scoliotic spine using flexible elements: a feasibility study]	Surgical instrumentation of the scoliotic spine is a complex procedure with many parameters, such as the spinal segment to operate on, the number and position of the hooks and screws, etc. Biomechanical modeling is a tool which can be used to determine the influence of these parameters. However, technical difficulties due to the large stiffness range of involved components and the large deformations associated with surgical maneuvers are encountered when using the finite elements method. Thus, the objective of this study is to adapt a modeling approach using analysis of flexible mechanisms and evaluate its feasibility. The model combines rigid bodies for the vertebrae and flexible elements representing intervertebral structures. The mechanical properties were calculated from published data and the geometry was personalized with intraoperative measurements. Following the installation of the hooks and screws on the modeled spine, two steps were used to simulate the surgical maneuvers: 1) translation and attachment of the hooks/screws on the first rod; 2) rod rotation. The feasibility of this modeling approach was evaluated by simulating the surgical maneuvers on 2 cases: 1) a physical model; 2) a clinical case. The agreement between intraoperative measurements and simulation results (frontal curvatures are reproduced with over 80% accuracy) shows the feasibility of the modeling approach. This approach also reduces computational convergence problems because of its limited sensitivity to stiffness differences between elements, which demonstrates the advantage of flexible mechanism modeling relative to finite element modeling. Long term goals of subsequent refinements are the development of a tool for surgical correction predictions and for the design of more efficient instrumentation.
Vital sign changes during infant magnetic resonance examinations.	Heart rate (HR) and blood oxygen saturation (SaO2) were monitored before and during clinically indicated MR examinations of newborns to (a) identify any temporal relationship between MR scanning and vital sign fluctuations and (b) assess the reliability of SaO2 monitoring of dynamic changes. Fluctuations in HR (but not in SaO2) that are temporally linked to the MR image acquisition occur in most neonates during routine clinical MR examinations.
The use of vertebral ring epiphyseal union for age estimation in two cases of unknown identity.	The objective of this case study was to demonstrate the utility of thoracic and first two lumbar vertebral ring epiphyseal union as an accurate and reliable method of age estimation for teenage and young adult skeletons. Vertebral ring epiphyseal union was used as a method of age estimation in two cases of osteological analysis for individuals of unknown identity. Case 1 involved male skeletal remains where postmortem damage by carnivores had destroyed most of the age markers. Data from vertebral ring epiphyseal union contributed to a narrower age estimation when used in conjunction with data from the other skeletal age indicators. Case 2 involved the fresh remains of an unknown female. Union of the vertebral ring epiphyses was consistent with an age range of 18 to 22 years, which was generally compatible with the age ranges obtained from the other skeletal sites (16 to 20 years). From this information, a narrower range of 18 to 20 years was then considered the most likely age at death. For each of the two cases, age information from observations of epiphyseal union of the vertebral centra has (1) been consistent with age information gathered from other skeletal age indicators and or (2) helped narrow down otherwise broader age estimation ranges. This method is recommended for use in estimating age at death from teenage and young adult skeletal remains.
