The relationship between apoptosis of endplate chondrocytes and aging and degeneration of the intervertebral disc.	Apoptosis in cervical intervertebral disc cells and cartilaginous endplate cells was examined by the nick end labeling (TUNEL) technique during the process of natural aging and in a mouse experimental spondylosis model.
Atypical parkinsonism and motor neuron syndrome in a Biosphere 2 participant: a possible complication of chronic hypoxia and carbon monoxide toxicity?	Exogenous toxins and chronic hypoxia have been implicated in the etiopathogenesis of a variety of neurological disorders, but it is not always possible to establish a cause-effect relationships. We describe a patient who presented with an unusual gait disorder and progressive motor neuron disease after residing for 2 years within Biosphere 2, a scientifically engineered dome, tightly sealed to allow miniscule exchange of air between its atmosphere and the earth's atmosphere. We postulate that this unusual syndrome resulted from chronic hypoxia possibly coupled with carbon monoxide and nitrous oxide exposure.
The role of vascular damage and fibrosis in the pathogenesis of nerve root damage.	Vascular damage and fibrosis are common within the vertebral canal and intervertebral foramen. The grossest examples occur in patients who have previously undergone oil-based myelography or spinal surgery. The mechanisms of fibrosis in the latter instance may be related to persisting cotton debris from sponges used during the operation. This debris may act as a fibrogenic stimulus. However, in cadaveric studies of nonoperated spines, the author and his colleagues have found clear evidence of vascular damage and fibrosis within the spines, and this vascular damage is significantly related to the severity of degenerative disk disease. Degenerative disk disease with osteophytic proliferation and disk protrusion may lead to compression of epidural veins with dilation of noncompressed veins. There is a significant statistical relationship between the extent of the disk degeneration and prolapse and the evidence of venous compression and dilatation. The dilatated veins may contain antemortem thromboses. In turn, there is a significant statistical relationship between the evidence for venous obstruction and perineural fibrosis. Such a relationship also exists between perineural fibrosis and neuronal atrophy. If therefore appears likely that venous obstruction with resultant hypoxia is an important mechanism leading to nerve root damage. In the peripheral blood, significant defects in the fibrinolytic system correlate with the severity of the symptoms. However, it was not possible to correlate these changes with individual clinical or imaging features. These fibrinolytic changes are recognized as markers of vascular damage and may reflect the pathologic processes that the author and his colleagues have demonstrated. It is uncertain whether they play any secondary pathogenic role in the chronicity of these back problems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Correlation of radiographic and MRI parameters to morphological and biochemical assessment of intervertebral disc degeneration.	Degenerative disc disease (DDD) is a common finding in MRI scans and X-rays. However, their correlation to morphological and biochemical changes is not well established. In this study, radiological and MRI parameters of DDD were assessed and compared with morphological and biochemical findings of disc degeneration. Thirty-nine human lumbar discs (L1-S1), age 19-86 years, were harvested from eight cadavers. Within 48 h postmortem, MRIs in various spin-echo sequences and biplanar radiographs of intact spines were obtained. Individual discs with endplates were then sectioned in the mid-sagittal plane and graded according to the morphological appearance. Samples from the nucleus of each disc were harvested for biochemical analysis including water and proteoglycan contents. On MRIs, T2-signal intensity, Modic changes, disc extension beyond the interspace (DEBIT), nucleus pulposus shape, annular tears, osteophytes and endplate integrity were graded. On radiographs, an independent observer classified the parameters disc height, endplate sclerosis, osteophytes, Schmorl's nodes, intradiscal calcifications and endplate shape. General linear-regression models were used for statistical analysis. Backward elimination with a 10% significance cut-off level was used to identify the most significant parameters, which then were summed to create composite scores for radiography, MRI and the combination of both methods. The grading was performed by three observers, and a reliability analysis using Cronbach's alpha model was used to control interobserver agreement. The three radiographic parameters height-loss, osteophytes and intradiscal calcifications correlated significantly with the morphological degree of degeneration (p<0.001, R2=642). Significant differences of even one morphological grade could also be differentiated in the composite radiological score (p<0.05), except at the extremes between grades 1 and 2 and grades 4 and 5. All MRI parameters correlated significantly with the morphological grade (p<0.05); however Modic changes, T2-intensity and osteophytes accounted for 83% of the variation in the data. T2-signal intensity correlated significantly with H2O and proteoglycan content (p<0.001), and was best for detecting highly degenerated discs. Regression showed that the combined score was better correlated with the morphological grade (p<0.001, R2=775) than either the composite radiographic (p<0.001, R2=642) or composite MRI (p<0.001, R2=696) alone. Based on the combined score, a backwards elimination of the regression was performed, in which the parameters Modic changes, and T2-intensity loss (MRI) as well as calcifications (X-ray) accounted for 87% of the variability. The interobserver validation showed a high correlation for all three scores (Cronbach's alpha values ranging from 0.95 to 0.97).
Segmental dysfunction of the cervical cord revealed by abnormalities of the spinal N13 potential in cervical spondylotic myelopathy.	We studied somatosensory potentials (SEPs) evoked by stimulation of radial, median, and ulnar nerves in 11 patients with MRI evidence of cervical spondylosis. All patients presented with progressive spastic paraparesis that was either isolated or associated with lower motor neuron signs in the upper limbs, with preserved joint, touch, pain, and temperature sensations in the four limbs. In all patients, scalp SEPs reflecting the activity of the dorsal column system up to the parietal cortex were normal while segmental cervical cord dysfunction was manifested by an abnormal spinal N13 potential in 95% of radial, 90% of median, and 54% of ulnar nerve SEPs. These subclinical abnormalities of the spinal N13 SEP probably result from reduced blood supply due to compression of the anterior spinal artery in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy.
Cage containing a biphasic calcium phosphate ceramic (Triosite) for the treatment of cervical spondylosis.	We evaluated the fusion efficacy and clinical outcomes of a cage containing a biphasic calcium phosphate ceramic (Triosite) in treating cervical spondylosis.
Postoperative changes at the lower end of cervical laminoplasty: for preservation of the C7 spinous process in laminoplasty.	C3-C7 laminoplasty has been the standard treatment for cervical myelopathy, although several recent reports described C3-C6 laminoplasty for preserving the muscles inserting in C7 and reducing postoperative axial symptoms. However, postoperative changes at C6/C7 of the lower end of C3-C6 laminoplasty, especially regarding a possibility of postoperative spinal canal narrowing have not been measured. The purpose of this study was to clarify postoperative changes at the lower end of laminoplasty.
Cervical spondylosis: ventral or dorsal surgery.	Cervical spondylosis is a result of degenerative changes of the cervical spine. Neurological symptoms of myelopathy result from the narrowing of the spinal canal, causing spinal cord compression. Surgical management of cervical stenosis requires an understanding of the interplay between multiple pathological and biomechanical factors contributing to this disease process. Surgical decompression can be addressed from a ventral, dorsal, or combined approach. The authors discuss the technical aspects of the surgical decision making process regarding the decision to approach the spine from a ventral or dorsal orientation.
Neurological manifestations of cervical spondylosis: an overview of signs, symptoms, and pathophysiology.	The neurological manifestations of cervical spondylosis include symptomatic compression of the spinal cord (myelopathy), nerve roots (radiculopathy), or a combination of the two (myeloradiculopathy). The term myeloradiculopathy herein defines these often indistinct and inseparable entities. The pathophysiology of myeloradiculopathy is multifactorial in nature, and the natural history of untreated myeloradiculopathy is not clearly defined. We review the signs, symptoms, and clinical findings of cervical myelopathy, radiculopathy, and myeloradiculopathy. Standard grading techniques are also reviewed.
Minimally invasive surgery for the management of cervical spondylosis.	Dorsal surgical procedures have a well-established role in the treatment of both radiculopathy and myelopathy caused by cervical spondylosis. Laminectomy and laminoplasty procedures can both lead to postoperative kyphosis because of the removal of the dorsal supporting structures of the neck. Minimally invasive or minimal-access spinal surgery procedures of the dorsal cervical spine are evolving techniques with the goal of decompressing the neural structures with minimal disruption of the dorsal supporting structures. We think that this will lead to less postoperative pain and a decreased incidence of post-decompression kyphotic deformity. Patient selection, techniques, and results are discussed for both minimally invasive cervical laminoforaminotomy and stenosis decompression.
Decision making process: problem-based decision making.	Clinical problems are often complex. Problems of great complexity are usually associated with a commensurately greater degree of difficulty with respect to the decision making process. This is most certainly true regarding the management of cervical spondylosis. Usually, clinicians make clinically appropriate decisions. However, more often than realized, suboptimal decisions may be made. Therefore, an assessment of the types of errors regarding clinical decision making are worthy of consideration. In this article, a scheme for decision making regarding the management of cervical spondylosis is presented.
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy: a brief review of its pathophysiology, clinical course, and diagnosis.	Degenerative disease of the cervical spine commonly occurs in the natural process of aging. This can lead to compression of the spinal cord and symptomatic myelopathy. We review the pathophysiological factors that lead to myelopathy and the controversial natural history of untreated myelopathy. Signs and symptoms at presentation, examination findings, differential diagnosis, and diagnostic studies are also discussed.
Clinical equipoise and treatment decisions in cervical spondylotic myelopathy.	The primary objective of this study is to evaluate clinician attitudes towards the treatment of cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) in order to determine whether clinical equipoise exists for a segment of this patient population. The secondary objective is to examine the factors that influence treatment decisions.
Herniated and spondylotic intervertebral discs of the human cervical spine: histological and immunohistological findings in 500 en bloc surgical samples. Laboratory investigation.	In this paper the authors' goal was to identify histological and immunohistochemical differences between cervical disc hemrniation and spondylosis.
Anatomy and clinical significance of the uncinate process and uncovertebral joint: A comprehensive review.	The uncinate process and its associated uncovertebral articulation are features unique to the cervical spine. This review examines the morphology of these unique structures with particular emphasis on the regional anatomy, development and clinical significance.
Cervical dorsal spondylosis with spinal cord compression in a black swan (Cygnus atratus).	Cervical dorsal spondylosis with spinal cord compression in a black swan (Cygnus atratus) was confirmed radiographically and morphologically. Clinically ataxia was associated. Noninflammatory, degenerative changes of the synovial joint cartilage were associated with the spondylosis.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the thoracic spine. Evaluation of asymptomatic individuals.	We reviewed magnetic resonance imaging studies of the thoracic spines of ninety asymptomatic individuals to determine the prevalence of abnormal anatomical findings. This group included sixty individuals who had no history of any thoracic or lumbar pain and thirty individuals who had a history of low-back pain only. In addition, we reviewed imaging studies of eighteen patients who had an operatively proved herniation of a thoracic disc and studies of thirty-one patients who had been seen with thoracic pain. Sagittal T1-weighted spin-echo and axial multiplanar gradient refocused images at each disc level were interpreted by us (two neuroradiologists and two orthopaedic spine surgeons); we had no clinical information about the patients. Sixty-six (73 percent) of the ninety asymptomatic individuals had positive anatomical findings at one level or more. These findings included herniation of a disc in thirty-three subjects (37 percent), bulging of a disc in forty-eight (53 percent), an annular tear in fifty-two (58 percent), deformation of the spinal cord in twenty-six (29 percent), and Scheuermann end-plate irregularities or kyphosis in thirty-four (38 percent). This study documents the high prevalence of anatomical irregularities, including herniation of a disc and deformation of the spinal cord, on the magnetic resonance images of the thoracic spine in asymptomatic individuals. We emphasize that these findings represent roentgenographic abnormalities only, and any clinical decisions concerning the treatment of pain in the thoracic spine usually require additional studies.
Morbidity after anterior cervical decompression and fusion. The influence of the donor site on recovery, and the results of a trial of surgibone compared to autologous bone.	The Cloward procedure is a routine approach to decompress and fuse the cervical spine. This paper looks at two aspects of the operation. Firstly the morbidity due to the hip wound is assessed, and alternatives to the use of autologous bone graft discussed. Secondly one Neurosurgical Unit's experience in the use of surgibone--an animal bone substitute harvested from steers and fashioned in dowels--is described. In this trial it was not found to be a satisfactory substitute to autologous bone.
MR signal enhancement in cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Correlation with surgical results in 35 cases.	In a review of Magnetic Resonance (MR) imaging findings of 35 cervical spondylotic myelopathy patients, a localized increased signal intensity was observed within the most compressed segment of the cervical cord on T2 and proton density weighted images. Size and duration of cervical cord constriction seemed to be the predisposing factors in producing such an abnormality. All patients underwent surgery. Postoperatively the high MR signal intensity disappeared in 3 (8.6%) cases, decreased in other 20 (57.1%) cases, and did not change in the remaining 12 (34.3%) cases. Thus reversible (edema, transient ischemia) and/or irreversible (malacia, gliosis) histological changes seemed to be represented in MR signal enhancement.
Cord diameters and their significance in prognostication and decisions about management of cervical spondylotic myelopathy.	The cases of 35 cervical spondylotic myelopathy patients exhibiting areas of high signal intensity within the cervical cord on T2 and proton density weighted MR images were reviewed. In each case, the ratio of the anteroposterior diameter to the transverse diameter (anteroposterior compression ratio or APCR) at the most compressed segment of the cervical cord was measured on axial MR images and compared with the patient's neurological status. The patients with APCR of 40% or more had a better neurological condition than those with APCR of 38% or less. At the same time, the neurological condition was worse in the patients with APCR of 10% or less than in those with APCR of 15% or more. All patients underwent surgery. The preoperative APCR was compared with the outcomes. The patients with preoperative APCR of 15% or more improved after the operation, but the degree of recovery varied considerably from case to case. The patients with preoperative APCR of 10% or less remained unchanged postoperatively.
Cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Clinicopathologic study on the progression pattern and thin myelinated fibers of the lesions of seven patients examined during complete autopsy.	This study was designed to reveal the progression pattern and essential histological findings of the lesions in the spinal cord affected by cervical spondylotic myelopathy.
