The natural history of type I (severe) spinal muscular atrophy.	The clinical features of 36 patients who satisfied the diagnostic criteria for type I (severe) spinal muscular atrophy (Werdnig-Hoffmann disease) are reported. Survival data for both the whole cohort and for groups within the cohort subdivided on the age of onset are presented. These data suggest that the patients with onset at birth or within the first 2 months of life have a more uniformly poor prognosis with earlier death. This is of potential importance in any therapeutic trials in the future whose outcome may be based on length of survival.
Spinal muscular atrophy in childhood. Possibilities and limits of clinical and molecular genetic diagnosis]	The proximal spinal muscular atrophies (SMA) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neuromuscular disorders which are characterized by selective degeneration of motor neurons in the spine and brainstem. The clinical features resemble other muscle diseases, the diagnostic criteria of proximal SMA have recently been defined by the International SMA Consortium. The classification of the clinical picture in different subgroups is still a focus of discussion. At present it seems likely that childhood onset SMA represents a broad spectrum of various ages of onset and different degrees of disability. Apart from different modes of inheritance, there is further evidence of heterogeneity in proximal SMA. The autosomal recessive forms represent the second frequent recessive disorder after cystic fibrosis, whereas autosomal dominant inheritance is an exception in childhood onset SMA. There are no convincing reports of X-linked SMA hitherto. With mapping of acute and chronic forms of childhood SMA to chromosome 5q11.2-13.3 diagnosis by use of DNA markers in affected families has become available. The current possibilities but also problems and limitations of genotype analysis are discussed, with special regard to the application of prenatal diagnosis. We report on the first experiences with prenatal diagnosis in 37 SMA families.
Electrocardiographic findings in children with spinal muscular atrophy.	Most of the patients in this study with spinal muscular atrophy were found to have tremors of the isoelectric line in the electrocardiogram (ECG) tracings. There were a total of 47 cases of SMA (mean age 40.8 months). All three types of SMA had a similar incidence (about 80%) of tremors in the tracings (p = 0.885). In 7 cases the ECG tremors had an intermittent pattern. ECG tremors were commonly found in the majority of SMA patients and this finding, though non-specific, may suggest a possible SMA diagnosis.
