External oblique abdominal muscle: a new look on its blood supply and innervation.	Numerous reports have discussed the use of the external oblique abdominal muscle as a pedicled or a free flap for defect coverage. A detailed description of the supplying vessels and nerves is a prerequisite for successful tissue transfer but so far is not available in the literature. A study of the arteries and nerves supplying the external oblique abdominal muscle was carried out in 42 cadavers after injection of a mixture of latex and bariumsulfate. In seven fresh cadavers the motor branches were identified with the Karnovsky technique. Three different groups of arteries were identified as the nurturing vessels. The cranial part of the muscle is supplied by two branches of the intercostal arteries. While the lateral branches run on the outer surface of the muscle together with the nerves, the anterior branches enter the muscle from its inner surface. The caudal part of the muscle derives its main blood supply from one or two branches of the deep circumflex iliac artery (94.7%) or the iliolumbar artery (5.3%). The external oblique abdominal muscle is innervated by motor branches of the lateral cutaneous branches of the anterior spinal nerves in a segmental pattern. With the exception of the subcostal nerve the motor branches enter the outer surface of the muscle digitation arising from the rib above. The results show that the cranial half of the external oblique abdominal muscle has a strictly segmental blood and nerve supply while the caudal half of the muscle derives its main blood supply from one artery but still shows a segmental innervation.
Propriospinal myoclonus at the sleep-wake transition: a new type of parasomnia.	To describe the clinical, neurophysiological, and polysomnographic characteristics of propriospinal myoclonus (PSM) at the sleep-wake transition.
Relationship of the axillary nerve to the proximal screws of a flexible humeral nail system: an anatomic study.	To investigate the risk of axillary nerve injury during placement of the proximal interlock and tension screws of the Synthes Titanium Flexible Humeral Nail System (Synthes, Paoli, PA).
An anatomical assessment of the "percutaneous rhizolysis" procedure.	The procedure known as rhizolysis has been claimed to denervate the lumbar zygapophyseal joints. Analysis of the surgical anatomy of the incisions used in the procedure reveals that theoretically they do not interrupt the nerve supply to the zygapophyseal joints. The procedure was performed at six levels in each of three cadavers. Subsequent dissection revealed that at no level was the nerve supply to the zygapophyseal joints interrupted. The writers conclude that denervation of the Zygapophyseal joints cannot be held to be the mechanism of any pain relief that rhizolysis may achieve.
Real-time sonographic imaging for periradicular injections in the lumbar spine: a sonographic anatomic study of a new technique.	We conducted this study to develop a sonographically guided approach to the spinal nerve of the lumbar spine and to assess its feasibility and accuracy by means of computed tomography (CT).
Surgical anatomy of the dorsal scapular nerve.	There is a paucity of literature regarding the surgical anatomy of the dorsal scapular nerve (DSN). The aim of this study was to elucidate the relationship of this nerve to surrounding anatomical structures.
Localization of motoneurons that extend axons through the ventral rami of cervical nerves to innervate the trapezius muscle: a study using fluorescent dyes and 3D reconstruction method.	It has been suggested that in addition to motor axons, which extend directly into the spinal accessory nerve (SAN), ventral rami-associated motor fibers of cervical nerves also innervate the trapezius muscle. Using fluorescent dye labeling and 3D reconstruction in adult rats, this study clarifies the localization of motoneurons, which extend axons either directly through the SAN or through the ventral rami of cervical nerves to innervate the trapezius. DiI or DiI and DiO were used to label the ventral rami of cervical nerves entering the SAN, as well as branches of the SAN. We show that motoneurons whose axons pass through the ventral rami of cervical nerves and then enter the SAN, and those extending axons directly through the SAN are distributed within the same area. The neurons that extend axons through the SAN had a greater diameter than those axons that pass through the cervical nerves en route to the trapezius muscle. In addition, the axons that ultimately extend through the SAN exit the spinal cord dorsolaterally, while those that pass through the cervical nerves extend out the spinal cord through the ventral roots. We presume that the neurons that extend axons through the SAN are mainly alpha-motoneurons and that those projecting axons through the cervical nerves to the trapezius are mainly gamma-motoneurons. Taken together, these results could explain why patients in whom the SAN was used to treat brachial plexus injury retain some control of the trapezius muscle.
Segmental somatotopic organization of cutaneous afferent fibers in the lumbar spinal cord dorsal horn in rats.	In the present study, we investigated the central representation of segmental cutaneous afferent fiber projection fields in the horizontal plane of the spinal cord dorsal horn in adult rats. The neurotracer 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (Dil) was applied to spinal nerves T12-S2 and cutaneous ventrodorsal axial lines T13-S1. The Dil fluorescent zones in transverse sections of the dorsal horn were observed microscopically. Mediolateral locations of Dil fluorescent zones were measured, followed by reorganization on the horizontal plane through lamina I-I111. Rostral and caudal boundary lines of the central projection fields of spinal nerves T12-S2 formed 'waves' in the horizontal plane of the dorsal horn, pitching rostrocaudally about one spinal cord segment. The rostral and caudal apexes of the waves could be linked with those of adjacent segments, suggesting that the wave pattern is continuous rostrocaudally in the dorsal horn. The waves were markedly transformed in the central projection fields of the hindlimb and genital regions, in the L5 and L6 spinal cord segments.
Pathophysiology of vertebrogenic lumbar and leg pain (pain, sensory disorders, paralysis): review related to clinical aspects]	Vertebrogenic pain is attached to several types of spinal pathology: degenerative diseases of spinal structures, disc displacement with or without radicular disturbances, primary or metastatic tumors, inflammatory diseases. Present views on the pathogenetic mechanisms of the various types of vertebrogenic local radicular and pseudoradicular pain are discussed. Current opinions about pathogenesis of radicular deficit of sensibility and physical force are also presented.
The relationship between the medial branch of the lumbar posterior ramus and the mamillo-accessory ligament.	Gross dissection anatomical studies have investigated the course of the human lumbar posterior primary ramus and its branches. This nerve has frequently been associated with low back pain; however, the cross-sectional area of the space beneath the mamillo-accessory ligament, which is occupied by the medial branch of the posterior primary ramus, has not been clearly defined. The purpose of this study is to use a histological procedure to identify the cross-sectional area of the space beneath the mamillo-accessory ligament which is occupied by the medial branch of the posterior primary ramus as it passes en route to the zygapophyseal joint capsules. The main findings are that the medial branch of the posterior primary ramus occupies only a small percentage (approximately 3%) of the space enclosed by the mamillo-accessory ligament, and that it is surrounded by adipose tissue which provides an adequate protective "cushion" around it. Therefore, it is unlikely that the medial branch of the posterior primary ramus could be trapped beneath the mamillo-accessory ligament and cause pain.
Functional neuroanatomy of proprioception.	Proprioception is the sense of body position that is perceived both at the conscious and unconscious levels. Typically, it refers to two kinds of sensations: that of static limb position and of kinesthesia. Static position reflects the recognition of the orientation of the different body parts, whereas kinesthesia is the recognition of rates of movement. Proprioception is based on a multicomponent sensory system. There are various peripheral receptors that detect specific signals and major sensory afferent pathways that carry the information from the spinal cord up to the cortex. There are parallel pathways, some of which serve conscious proprioception, and others that serve subconscious proprioception. Conscious proprioception is relayed mostly by the dorsal column and in part by the spinocervical tract. Finally, the organ of perception for position sense is the sensory cortex of the brain. This review outlines the current understanding of these complex neural pathways, starting from the peripheral receptors and working up toward the center of perception, the brain.
Lumbar spinal nerves in the neural foramen: MR appearance.	The appearance of the proximal lumbar spinal nerves at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging has not, to the authors' knowledge, been described. MR images and exactly corresponding sections obtained from four cadavers by means of a freezing microtome were correlated to characterize the MR appearance of the proximal spinal nerves. The junction of the dorsal and ventral rami with the dorsal and ventral roots consists of a group of six to 15 fascicles measuring 2-6 mm in length. These fascicles appear in MR images obtained with short repetition times as small foci of lower signal intensity than that of surrounding fat. The proximal spinal nerve and its relationship to the intervertebral disk and osseous margins of the neural foramen can be demonstrated effectively with MR imaging.
Distinctive cranial and cervical innervation of wing muscles: new evidence for bat monophyly.	The traditional view that Old World fruit bats (Megachiroptera) and insect bats (Microchiroptera) are closely related has been challenged by claims that Megachiroptera are the sister group to flying lemurs (Dermoptera) or Primates. We found that the specialized muscles of the rostral part of the wing in Microchiroptera and Megachiroptera receive double innervation by both the facial nerve and cervical spinal nerves, suggesting that bats are monophyletic. Innervation by the facial nerve also occurs in Dermoptera and suggests that bats and Dermoptera share a common ancestor that had wings.
Topographic variations in the peripheral course of the greater occipital nerve. Autopsy study with clinical correlations.	The description of the peripheral course of the greater occipital nerve (GON) varies in the literature. An autopsy study was done on 20 cases without known headache problems. These findings showed a marked variation in the relation between the GON and nuchal muscles. The trapezius muscle was penetrated by the GON in 45% of cases, the semispinal muscle of the head was penetrated in 90% of cases, and the inferior oblique muscle of head was penetrated in 7.5% of cases. Macroscopic findings of possible compression were made in 11 cases (27.5%), indicating that nerve compression per se may be of minor importance since it seems to exist in the absence of headache.
The intracranial denticulate ligament: anatomical study with neurosurgical significance.	Knowledge of the detailed anatomy of the craniocervical junction is important to neurosurgeons. To the authors' knowledge, no study has addressed the detailed anatomy of the intracranial (first) denticulate ligament and its intracranial course and relationships.
Feasibility of combined epicranial temporal and occipital neurostimulation: treatment of a challenging case of headache.	Evidence of a paradigm shift towards epicranial neurostimulation treatment techniques aimed at the site of headache pain is beginning to populate the literature. This is most apparent by 2 recently published reports describing alternative approaches to peripheral nerve stimulation techniques for refractory migraine, including hemiplegic migraine.
Anatomy of the ilioinguinal and iliohypogastric nerves with observations of their spinal nerve contributions.	Proper anesthesia and knowledge of the anatomical location of the iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal nerves is important during hernia repair and other surgical procedures. Surgical complications have also implicated these nerves, emphasizing the importance of the development of a clear topographical map for use in their identification. The aim of this study was to explore anatomical variations in the iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal nerves and relate this information to clinical situations. One hundred adult formalin fixed cadavers were dissected resulting in 200 iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal nerve specimens. Each nerve was analyzed for spinal nerve contribution and classified accordingly. All nerves were documented where they entered the abdominal wall with this point being measured in relation to the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS). The linear course of each nerve was followed, and its lateral distance from the midline at termination was measured. The ilioinguinal nerve originated from L1 in 130 specimens (65%), from T12 and L1 in 28 (14%), from L1 and L2 in 22 (11%), and from L2 and L3 in 20 (10%). The nerve entered the abdominal wall 2.8 ± 1.1 cm medial and 4 ± 1.2 cm inferior to the ASIS and terminated 3 ± 0.5 cm lateral to the midline. The iliohypogastric nerve originated from T12 on 14 sides (7%), from T12 and L1 in 28 (14%), from L1 in 20 (10%), and from T11 and T12 in 12 (6%). The nerve entered the abdominal wall 2.8 ± 1.3 cm medial and 1.4 ± 1.2 cm inferior to the ASIS and terminated 4 ± 1.3 cm lateral to the midline. For both nerves, the distance between the ASIS and the midline was 12.2 ± 1.1 cm. To reduce nerve damage and provide sufficient anesthetic for nerve block during surgical procedures, the precise anatomical location and spinal nerve contributions of the iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal nerves need to be considered.
The CNS-PNS transitional zone of rat cervical dorsal roots during development and at maturity. A morphological and morphometric study.	Each seventh cervical dorsal nerve root is attached to the spinal cord surface by four to eight rootlets. A tapering outgrowth of central nervous tissue, the central tissue projection, extends distally into the proximal part of each rootlet in the immediate postnatal period. The central ends of the most proximal peripheral internodes surround this projection. Thus a length of rootlet contains both CNS and PNS tissue. This is termed the transitional zone. Material was processed by standard preparative techniques for electron microscopy. Serial semithin and ultrathin sections were made over the entire extent of several transitional zones at ages ranging from 2 to 300 days postnatum. Central tissue projections were reconstructed in three dimensions and analysed morphometrically. The morphology of the central tissue projection varies during development. At first, it forms an irregular projection into the anterior portion of the rootlet. It than elongates and takes the form of a dorsoventrally flattened, distally tapering wedge. By 20 days postnatum it has attained its definitive form. This consists of three segments: a proximal wedge-shaped portion, similar to that described above; continuous with this is a distally tapering, dorsoventrally flattened, cone-shaped segment which generally branches into two or more slender projections of central tissue. The latter comprise the third segment. The projection comes to form a substantial proportion of the anterior, proximal and distal surfaces of the dorsal rootlet from an early stage. The mean length of the central tissue projection increases progressively over all intervals studied, except that between 12 and 30 days postnatum, when a reduction in length is associated with reorganisation of the morphology of the projection. Projection length varies considerably between rootlets and is relatively weakly correlated with rootlet cross sectional area. There is a great deal of overlap between the distributions of projection lengths at all stages between 20 and 300 days.
Neurometameric innervation of the human skeleton]	The status of the sclerotomic pain sensitivity was studied in 719 patients with spondylogenic radiculites. A map of the neurometameric sclerotomic innervation was drawn up on the basis of the findings obtained.
Electrophysiologic studies of cutaneous nerves of the thoracic limb of the dog.	The cutaneous innervation of the thoracic limb was investigated in 36 barbiturate-anesthetized dogs, using electrophysiologic techniques. The cutaneous area (CA) innervated by each cutaneous nerve was delineated in at least five dogs by stroking the hair in the area with a small watercolor brush while recording from the nerve. Mapping of adjacent CA revealed areas of considerable overlapping. The part of the CA of a given nerve supplied by only that nerve is referred to as its autonomous zone. Of all nerves arising from the brachial plexus, only the suprascapular, subscapular, lateral thoracic, thoracodorsal, and cranial and caudal pectoral nerves lacked cutaneous afferents. The dorsal cutaneous branch of C6 had a CA, but no grossly demonstrable dorsal cutaneous branches for C7 C8, or T1 were found. The cervical nerves had ventral cutaneous branches, but no lateral cutaneous branches. Thoracic nerves T2-T4 had dorsal, ventral, and lateral cutaneous branches. The cutaneous branches of the brachiocephalic, axillary, musculocutaneous, radial, median, and ulnar nerves all had CA which were overlapped by adjacent CA, thus their autonomous zones were much smaller than the cutaneous areas usually depicted for these nerves in anatomy and neurology textbooks.
Trigeminal, vagal, and spinal projections of supramedullary cells in the puffer fish, Takifugu niphobles.	The supramedullary cells (SMCs) of teleosts have been studied for nearly 100 years, but their peripheral connections have remained obscure. We examined the supramedullary cells of the puffer fish, Takifugu niphobles, using horseradish peroxidase transport. Horseradish peroxidase labeling was found bilaterally after application to the trigeminal, the posterior branch of the vagal, and the spinal nerves. No labeled neurons were found after application to the anterior or visceral branches of the vagal nerve. Thus, labeled SMCs were found only after application to the nerves containing cutaneous branches. Some rostrocaudal topographical labeling was found after selective application to each of the four branches of the trigeminal nerve. Labeled neurons were more common in the rostral than in the central or caudal part of the SMC region. Some topographical labeling was also found after application to the first, second, and third spinal nerves, but the topography was not very clear, and there was considerable overlap in the distribution of labeled cells. The sum total of labeled SMCs after unilateral horseradish peroxidase application to each peripheral nerve was more than three times the total number of ipsilateral SMCs, indicating that a single SMC projects several peripheral processes into different nerves. From these results, and taking previous studies into consideration, we propose that supramedullary neurons have a phylogenetic relationship with the spinal dorsal cells of the lamprey and with the extramedullary cells of the amphibian embryo.
The spinal accessory nerve (n. accessorius) I: anatomical study]	In order to increase knowledge of the spinal accessory nerve concerning its situation, trajectory and terminal branches and also the connections with the cervical plexus, the authors report an anatomical study based on 11 dissections of the trapezius muscle mode of innervation and the connections between the accessory nerve, the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles.
The vertebral level of origin of spinal nerves in the rat.	Several dissections were performed to determine the level of spinal cord termination and the vertebral level at which the dorsal and ventral roots of spinal nerves C1-S4 emerged from the spinal cord in the rat. These levels of emergence were then compared to the level of exit from the vertebral canal. The dissections demonstrated that the effect of differential growth between spinal cord and vertebral column begins in the lower cervical region and becomes progressively more pronounced throughout thoracic and lumbar levels. The disparity between the vertebral level of emergence of spinal roots from the spinal cord and their level of exit via intervertebral foramina was found to be considerably larger than was previously reported by Greene ('68). It was further noted that the spinal cord terminated at the level of the intervertebral disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, not between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae as reported by Greene ('68).
Neurophysiological and anatomical variability of the greater auricular nerve.	To study the normal variation in greater auricular nerve (GAN) conduction and anatomical course.
