Transplantation of nanostructured composite scaffolds results in the regeneration of chronically injured spinal cords.	The destruction and hollowing of entire tissue segments represent an insurmountable barrier to axonal regeneration and therapeutics in chronic spinal cord injury. To circumvent this problem, we engineered neural prosthetics, by assembling electrospun nanofibers and self-assembling peptides into composite guidance channels and transplanted them into the cysts of a postcontusive, chronic spinal cord injury rat model, also providing delivery of proregenerative cytokines. Six months later conspicuous cord reconstruction was observed. The cyst was replaced by newly formed tissue comprising neural and stromal cells. Nerve fibers were interspersed between and inside the guidance channels, spanning the lesion, amidst a well-developed vascular network, basal lamina, and myelin. This was accompanied by a significant improvement in the activity of ascending and descending motor pathways and the global locomotion score. Thus by engineering nanostructured matrices into neuroprosthetics, it is possible to recreate an anatomical, structural, and histological framework, which leads to the replacement of large, hollow tissue gaps in the chronically injured spinal cord, fostering axonal regeneration and neurological recovery.
Inhibition of gecko GSK-3β promotes elongation of neurites and oligodendrocyte processes but decreases the proliferation of blastemal cells.	GSK-3β signaling is involved in regulation of both neuronal and glial cell functions, and interference of the signaling affects central nervous system (CNS) development and regeneration. Thus, GSK-3β was proposed to be an important therapeutic target for promoting functional recovery of adult CNS injuries. To further clarify the regulatory function of the kinase on the CNS regeneration, we characterized gecko GSK-3β and determined the effects of GSK-3β inactivation on the neuronal and glial cell lines, as well as on the gecko tail (including spinal cord) regeneration. Gecko GSK-3β shares 91.7-96.7% identity with those of other vertebrates, and presented higher expression abundance in brain and spinal cord. The kinase strongly colocalized with the oligodendrocytes while less colocalized with neurons in the spinal cord. Phosphorylated GSK-3β (pGSK-3β) levels decreased gradually during the normally regenerating spinal cord ranging from L13 to the 6th caudal vertebra. Lithium injection increased the pGSK-3β levels of the corresponding spinal cord segments, and in vitro experiments on neurons and oligodendrocyte cell line revealed that the elevation of pGSK-3β promoted elongation of neurites and oligodendrocyte processes. In the normally regenerate tails, pGSK-3β kept stable in 2 weeks, whereas decreased at 4 weeks. Injection of lithium led to the elevation of pGSK-3β levels time-dependently, however destructed the regeneration of the tail including spinal cord. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) staining demonstrated that inactivation of GSK-3β decreased the proliferation of blastemal cells. Our results suggested that species-specific regulation of GSK-3β was indispensable for the complete regeneration of CNS.
Stem cell-based therapies: promises, obstacles, discordance, and the agora.	Stem cell research has entered the public consciousness through the media. Proponents and opponents of all such research, or of human embryonic stem cell research specifically, engage in heated exchanges in the modern public forum where stakeholders negotiate, the agora. One common claim that emerges from the fray is that a particular type of stem cell research should be pursued as the most promising path toward the reduction of suffering and untimely death for all of humanity. Upon evaluation, experimental data regarding the potential role of stem cells in regenerative therapies for three conditions-spinal cord injury, type 1 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease-tell distinct, complex, and inconclusive stories. Further analyses in this article incorporate realistic considerations of a broad range of relevant factors: limited funding for biomedical research, media motives, the discordance hypothesis of evolutionary medicine, the relationship between religion and science, medical care in developing nations, and culture wars over abortion. Holistic investigation inspired by the current agora conversation supports the need to drastically change interactions regarding stem cell research so that its potential to benefit humanity may be more fully realized.
Concise review: the potential of stromal cell-derived factor 1 and its receptors to promote stem cell functions in spinal cord repair.	Transplanted stem cells provide beneficial effects on regeneration/recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) by the release of growth-promoting factors, increased tissue preservation, and provision of a permissive environment for axon regeneration. A rise in chemokine stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1/CXCL12) expression levels in central nervous system (CNS) injury sites has been shown to play a central role in recruiting transplanted stem cells. Although technically more challenging, it has been shown that after SCI few endogenous stem cells are recruited via SDF-1/CXCR4 signaling. Evidence is accumulating that increasing SDF-1 levels at the injury site (e.g., by exogenous application or transfection methods) further enhances stem cell recruitment. Moreover, SDF-1 might, in addition to migration, also influence survival, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine secretion of stem cells. Here, we discuss the experimental data available on the role of SDF-1 in stem and progenitor cell biology following CNS injury and suggest strategies for how manipulation of the SDF-1 system could facilitate stem cell-based therapeutic approaches in SCI. In addition, we discuss challenges such as how to circumvent off-target effects in order to facilitate the transfer of SDF-1 to the clinic.
Sox11 promotes endogenous neurogenesis and locomotor recovery in mice spinal cord injury.	We introduced a lentiviral vector containing the Sox11 gene into injured spinal cords of mice to evaluate the therapeutic potential of Sox11 in spinal cord injury. Sox11 markedly improved locomotor recovery after spinal cord injury and this recovery was accompanied by an up-regulation of Nestin/Doublecortin expression in the injured spinal cord. Sox11 was mainly located in endogenous neural stem cells lining the central canal and in newly-generated neurons in the spinal cord. In addition, Sox 11 significantly induced expressions of BDNF in the spinal cords of LV-Sox11-treated mice. We concluded that Sox11 induced activation of endogenous neural stem cells into neuronal determination and migration within the injured spinal cord. The resultant increase of BDNF at the injured site might form a distinct neurogenic niche which induces a final neuronal differentiation of these neural stem cells. Enhancing Sox11 expression to induce neurogenic differentiation of endogenous neural stem cells after injury may be a promising strategy in restorative therapy after SCI in mammals. 
The asparaginyl endopeptidase legumain is essential for functional recovery after spinal cord injury in adult zebrafish.	Unlike mammals, adult zebrafish are capable of regenerating severed axons and regaining locomotor function after spinal cord injury. A key factor for this regenerative capacity is the innate ability of neurons to re-express growth-associated genes and regrow their axons after injury in a permissive environment. By microarray analysis, we have previously shown that the expression of legumain (also known as asparaginyl endopeptidase) is upregulated after complete transection of the spinal cord. In situ hybridization showed upregulation of legumain expression in neurons of regenerative nuclei during the phase of axon regrowth/sprouting after spinal cord injury. Upregulation of Legumain protein expression was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Interestingly, upregulation of legumain expression was also observed in macrophages/microglia and neurons in the spinal cord caudal to the lesion site after injury. The role of legumain in locomotor function after spinal cord injury was tested by reducing Legumain expression by application of anti-sense morpholino oligonucleotides. Using two independent anti-sense morpholinos, locomotor recovery and axonal regrowth were impaired when compared with a standard control morpholino. We conclude that upregulation of legumain expression after spinal cord injury in the adult zebrafish is an essential component of the capacity of injured neurons to regrow their axons. Another feature contributing to functional recovery implicates upregulation of legumain expression in the spinal cord caudal to the injury site. In conclusion, we established for the first time a function for an unusual protease, the asparaginyl endopeptidase, in the nervous system. This study is also the first to demonstrate the importance of legumain for repair of an injured adult central nervous system of a spontaneously regenerating vertebrate and is expected to yield insights into its potential in nervous system regeneration in mammals. 
