Cholecystokinin peptides in cerebrospinal fluid: a study in healthy male subjects lumbar-punctured without preceding strict bed-rest.	In a recent study we analysed the concentrations of two forms of cholecystokinin (CCK), CCK-8S (sulphated) and CCK-4 in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from 14 healthy male volunteers lumbar-punctured after a minimum of eight hours of strict bed-rest. We have now lumbar-punctured another group of 14 healthy males, using the same procedure except for the requirement of strict bed-rest prior to puncture. In contrast to our previous study, the concentration of CCK-4 (but not CCK-8S) was significantly higher in the second CSF fraction (7-12 ml) than in the first one (0-6 ml). On using the concentration ratio between the second and first fraction, CCK-8S (but not CCK-4) correlated positively with the atmospheric pressure, which is in contrast to our previous study in which a significant negative correlation was found. When the lumbar CSF concentrations were expressed as the concentration per minute of tapping-time (an estimate of the mass flow), atmospheric pressure, age and the neuraxis distance in the lying position made significant contributions to the variance in CCK-8S. A significant positive correlation with atmospheric pressure was found for CCK-4. In conclusion, the results indicate that the question of strict bed-rest or not prior to lumbar puncture may have to be considered when interpreting data on lumbar CSF concentrations of CCK. A controlled study is warranted.
Recurrent meningitis in the pediatric patient--the otolaryngologist's role.	To assess the etiology of recurrent meningitis in the pediatric patient.
The rational clinical examination. Does this adult patient have acute meningitis?	Early clinical recognition of meningitis is imperative to allow clinicians to efficiently complete further tests and initiate appropriate therapy.
Leptin, neuropeptide Y, and peptide YY in long-term recovered eating disorder patients.	Disturbances of leptin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and peptide YY (PYY) have been found in women who are ill with anorexia or bulimia nervosa. It is not certain whether peptide disturbances are cause or consequence of eating disorders.
ACP Best Practice No 166: CSF spectrophotometry in the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage.	After subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), cerebral angiography is usually performed to establish a site of bleeding, which may then be treated surgically to prevent a potentially catastrophic re-bleed. The investigation of choice in the diagnosis of SAH is computerised tomography (CT). However, because CT can miss some patients with SAH, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spectrophotometry should be performed in those patients with negative or equivocal CT scans or those who have presented several days after the suspected bleed. Spectrophotometry should aim to detect the presence of both oxyhaemoglobin and bilirubin because either one or both of these pigments may contribute to xanthochromia following SAH. CSF supernatant is scanned using a double beam spectrophotometer at wavelengths between 350 nm and 650 nm. Oxyhaemoglobin alone produces an absorption peak at 413-415 nm, bilirubin alone produces a broad peak at 450-460 nm, and bilirubin together with oxyhaemoglobin produce a shoulder at 450-460 nm on the downslope of the oxyhaemoglobin peak. To minimise the frequency of false positive and false negative results, a protocol has been developed, which is described.
Lumbar puncture in pediatric bacterial meningitis: defining the time interval for recovery of cerebrospinal fluid pathogens after parenteral antibiotic pretreatment.	Despite the lack of evidence defining a time interval during which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture yield will not be affected by previous antibiotic therapy, recent publications cite a "minimum window" of 2 to 3 hours for recovery of bacterial pathogens after parenteral antibiotic administration. We conducted a retrospective review of children with bacterial meningitis to describe the rate at which parenteral antibiotic pretreatment sterilizes CSF cultures.
A retrospective study in spinal anesthesia for sumo-wrestlers]	Spinal anesthesia for the Sumo-wrestler is thought to be difficult because of following reasons. 1. Sumo-wrestlers are so fatty and weighty that piercing spinal needle into the subarachnoid space is technically difficult. 2. The relationship between volume of local anesthetics and attained spinal anesthesia level is difficult to detect. 3. Upper airway can be easily obstructed during sedation.
Elevated cerebrospinal fluid SNAP-25 in schizophrenia.	Research suggests an association between abnormal exocytosis and schizophrenia. We previously demonstrated increased synaptosomal associated protein, 25 kDa (SNAP-25), a member of the exocytotic mechanism, in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of schizophrenia subjects. In this study, we explored SNAP-25 level and clinical variables in a new group of subjects.
Cerebrospinal fluid leakage after lumbar puncture in neonates: incidence and sonographic appearance.	The purpose of this article is to review the incidence and sonographic appearance of cerebrospinal fluid leakage after lumbar puncture in the neonatal period. Thirty-three neonates underwent spinal sonography after diagnostic lumbar puncture. A total of 21 of these patients showed cerebrospinal fluid leakage into the epidural space extending from the level of the cauda equina to the lumbar (n = 9), the thoracic (n = 8), or the cervical (n = 4) region. In eight patients, the subarachnoid space was markedly compressed by the epidural fluid collection.
Evaluation of the child who convulses with fever.	Febrile seizures result from age-dependent hyperexcitability of the brain that is induced by fever. Although there are important genetic influences that render a febrile child more likely to develop seizures, it is the fever per se that causes the seizure. Of primary importance in the diagnostic assessment of such children are efforts directed at finding the cause of the fever. Once found, the cause should be treated specifically, e.g. antibacterials for otitis media, and/or symptomatically, e.g. antipyretics for viral pharyngitis. It is essential to exclude underlying meningitis in all children with febrile seizures, either clinically or, if any doubt remains, by lumbar puncture. In as many as one child in six with meningitis, seizures are the presenting sign, and in one-third of these patients, meningeal signs and symptoms may be lacking. The great majority of such cases of meningitis are bacterial in origin, and delay in diagnosis can result in serious neurologic morbidity, and even death.In the child who convulses with fever, it is always important to consider that something in addition to the fever has caused the child to have a seizure. Infection that has gone unnoticed, such as meningitis or encephalitis, as well as a systemic illness, head trauma, intoxication, electrolyte imbalance, low blood sugar, or a phakomatoses, can cause seizures. One must also consider the possibility that the child with a febrile seizure has epilepsy, and that fever has simply triggered a seizure recurrence in a child who also experiences unprovoked seizures.Thus, based on the specifics of each case, the diagnostic evaluation of the child with a febrile seizure can be very limited or moderately comprehensive. Imaging studies are necessary only in selected cases. The electroencephalogram is of limited value. The primary concern is always the need to exclude meningitis. Therefore, a lumbar puncture should be carried out, except in those cases where the possibility of CNS infection seems truly remote.
Hypoglycorrhachia in Lyme meningitis.	We describe a previously healthy 11-year-old girl with acute neuroborreliosis, who presented with left sixth cranial nerve palsy, elevated intracranial pressure, markedly elevated cerebrospinal fluid leukocyte count and protein concentration and severe hypoglycorrhachia. These laboratory findings are atypical for neuroborreliosis.
Conscious sedation of children with propofol is anything but conscious.	To determine the depth of sedation required for bone marrow aspiration and intrathecal injection of chemotherapeutic agents in children using a bispectral (BIS) index monitor and clinical assessment by an independent observer.
Spinal vascular malformation in a child, revealed by lumbar puncture]	Spinal vascular malformations are exceptional in children. We report a case in 1 year-old patient due to a spinal vascular malformation which was revealed by paraplegia after lumbary punction. The diagnosis was made by MRI. Spontaneous outcome was characterised by the persistence of paraplegia.
Anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody treatment of patients with CD3-negative tumors: a phase IA/B study.	Anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies induce the proliferation of human T-cells in vitro and activate specific and nonspecific cytolysis by human T-cell clones and human peripheral blood lymphocytes. In vivo administration of anti-CD3 prevents tumor growth of a UV-induced mouse fibrosarcoma. We conducted a phase I trial to determine the toxicity and immunomodulatory properties of low doses of anti-CD3 in 36 patients with cancer. In 23 patients, anti-CD3 was given i.v. over 3 h at 1, 10, 30, and 100 mcg/patient. Five other patients received anti-CD3 at 30 mcg by i.v. bolus. Patients were treated every 3 days for a total of four doses. An additional eight patients received anti-CD3 daily for 14 days at 3 mcg by i.v. bolus, 3-h infusion, or 24-h infusion. Dose-limiting toxicity was headache. Headache was often accompanied by signs and symptoms of meningeal irritation leading to performance of a lumbar puncture in nine patients. The opening pressure was usually elevated, and six patients had a cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytosis with an elevated protein. Increased levels of interleukin 6 were identified in the cerebrospinal fluid. The maximum tolerated dose by 3-h infusion was 30 mcg. There were no objective tumor responses. There was a dose-related increase in the number of peripheral blood lymphocytes expressing the T-cell activation antigen CD69 (Leu 23), but no changes were seen in CD25 (interleukin 2 receptor) expression, and no changes were observed in the serum levels of the soluble interleukin 2 receptor. Even at these low doses of anti-CD3, 8 of 16 patients tested developed human anti-mouse antibodies.
CSF characteristics in early-onset multiple sclerosis.	The authors studied CSF characteristics in 136 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) with a disease onset before age 16. In the initial diagnostic lumbar puncture, CSF-pleocytosis was observed in 66%, blood-CSF barrier dysfunction in 13%, and oligoclonal IgG in 92% of the early-onset MS (EOMS) patients. CSF oligoclonal IgG supports the early diagnosis of MS in childhood with a sensitivity similar to adult-onset MS.
Case report: greater meningeal inflammation in lumbar than in ventricular region in human bacterial meningitis.	Differences in the composition of ventricular and lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) based on single pairs of samples have previously been described. We describe a patient that developed post-surgical recurrent meningitis monitored by daily biochemical and bacteriological CSF analysis, simultaneously withdrawn from lumbar space and ventricles. A 20-year-old Caucasian man was admitted to the ICU after a resection of a chordoma that extended from the sphenoidal sinus to the anterior face of C2. CSF was continuously leaking into the pharyngeal cavity after surgery, and three episodes of recurrent meningitis, all due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa O12, occurred. Our case showed permanent ventricular-to-lumbar CSF gradients of leukocytes, protein and glucose that were increased during the acute phase of meningitis, with the greatest amplitude being observed when bacteria were present in both ventricular and lumbar CSF. This might suggest a greater extent of meningeal inflammation in the lumbar than in the ventricular region. Our case also showed that the increase in intravenous antibiotics (cefepim from 8 to 12 g/day and ciprofloxacine from 1.2 to 2.4 g/day) led to an increase in concentration in plasma but not in CSF.
Indicators of acute bacterial meningitis in children at a rural Kenyan district hospital.	Acute bacterial meningitis remains an important cause of death and neurologic sequelae in African children. The clinical features of meningitis are often nonspecific and in this setting may overlap with those of malaria. Early diagnosis and appropriate antibiotic treatment are perhaps the most important steps in management, but published data suggest that fewer than half of the cases of childhood meningitis are identified at first assessment in hospitals in this region. The objective of this study was to identify clinical indicators of acute bacterial meningitis by examining components of the World Health Organization Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) referral criteria for meningitis (lethargy, unconsciousness, inability to feed, stiff neck, or seizures) and other symptoms and signs.
Cerebrospinal neuropeptide Y and substance P in suicide attempters during long-term antidepressant treatment.	This study describes cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and substance P (SP) in patients with a recent suicide attempt and during antidepressant treatment. Seven out of 13 patients received antidepressants. The patients were examined on three separate occasions, i.e. at pre-treatment, followed by every 3 or 4 months. Antidepressant treatment seemed to affect the levels of CSF NPY, which decreased significantly between the second and last lumbar puncture despite no significant changes of clinical scores. When the whole group was taken into consideration, both CSF NPY and SP decreased significantly. At pre-treatment, Brief Scale of Anxiety scores were significantly and negatively correlated to CSF SP and tended to be negatively correlated to CSF NPY. There were also significant positive correlations between CSF NPY and SP during the entire study in the whole group, possibly reflecting an inter-relationship between these neuropeptides.
Isobaric ropivacaine 5 mg/ml for spinal anesthesia in children.	In this clinical trial, we evaluated the clinical effects of ropivacaine for spinal anesthesia in children. An open, prospective study was performed on 93 children, aged 1-17 yr, undergoing elective lower abdominal or lower limb surgery. A plain solution of ropivacaine 5 mg/mL at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg body weight (up to 20 mg) was administered via the L3-4 or L4-5 interspace with the patient in the lateral decubitus position. After injection, the patients were placed supine. The spread and duration of sensory analgesia and the degree of motor block were recorded. Satisfactory surgical anesthesia was achieved in 92 of the 93 children. Three children received general anesthesia; in one child spinal anesthesia failed, and in two cases surgery outlasted the duration of the sensory block. Four children received supplemental analgesia for skin incision. The mean highest level of sensory block was T6 (range, T2 to T12), and the mean time to the regression of sensory block to T10 was 96 min (range, 34-210 min). One child developed transient bradycardia and one hypotension. After discharge four children developed mild transient radiating neurologic symptoms and one epidural blood patch was performed for persistent position-dependent headache. We conclude that the block performance of intrathecal isobaric ropivacaine in children (>1 yr) is similar to that obtained in adults but the safety of the larger dose used in children warrants further studies.
Ten years of experience with pediatric neuroendoscopic third ventriculostomy: features and perioperative complications of 210 cases.	Obstructive hydrocephalus remains a problem, and improvements in fiberoptic technology have promoted interest in neuroendoscopic ventriculostomy (NTV) as an alternative to standard cerebrospinal fluid shunts. The present study assessed 210 pediatric NTVs performed between 1994 and 2004 in patients aged 2 months to 10 years. Five children needed same-session ventriculoperitoneal shunting due to insufficient bypass of the obstruction. The other 205 procedures were technically successful, but 7 patients needed early-postoperative shunting and 10 required late shunting. During NTV, 86 (40.1%) of the patients developed arrhythmia. One patient arrested during balloon dilatation, but normal rhythm returned after deflation and epinephrine/atropine therapy, with no resultant morbidity. Twenty-six (10.2%) patients developed tachycardia (without hypertension) followed by bradycardia, and 6 children (2.8%) developed hypertension. In 1 case (0.5%), a branch of the basilar artery ruptured during fenestration and the hemorrhage was controlled after craniotomy. In 5 cases, mild venous bleeding was controlled by irrigation. The early complications included transient ocular divergence (n = 1), anisocoria (n = 2), and hyponatremia (n = 5). Five children were diagnosed with temporary diabetes insipidus in the late-postoperative period. The neuroendoscopic approach is considered safe for treating hydrocephalus in children, but complications can be severe or lethal and the anesthesiologist must respond accordingly.
Attitudes and judgment of emergency physicians in the management of patients with acute headache.	There is little evidence guiding physicians in the evaluation of acute headache to rule out nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The authors assessed emergency physicians in: 1) their pretest accuracy for predicting SAH, 2) their comfort with not ordering either head computed tomography (CT) or lumbar puncture (LP) in patients with acute headache, and 3) their comfort with not ordering head CT before performing LP in patients with acute headache.
Tau protein concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	To elucidate whether cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of the microtubule-associated tau protein are related to the risk for sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SALS).
Cryptococcus neoformans meningitis at 2 hospitals in Washington, D.C.: adherence of health care providers to published practice guidelines for the management of cryptococcal disease.	Meningitis due to Cryptococcus neoformans may be associated with elevated intracranial pressure (ICP), but management of this complication is often overlooked. We retrospectively analyzed 39 consecutive patients with cases of culture-proven, community-acquired meningitis and ascertained adherence to Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) practice guidelines for management of cryptococcal meningitis. Of these 39 patients, 26 (67%) had infection due to C. neoformans. Cerebrospinal fluid opening pressure had been measured for 13 (50%) of these 26 patients, and major deviations from the guidelines with respect to ICP management were observed in the care of 14 (54%). Seven (50%) of these 14 patients developed neuropathies during therapy, compared with 1 of the 5 patients whose care had minor or no deviations from the guidelines (P=.024). Major departures from the IDSA guidelines for management of ICP due to C. neoformans meningitis are common and can be associated with neurological injury during therapy.
CSF spectrophotometry in the diagnosis and exclusion of spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage.	To assess the sensitivity and specificity of CSF spectrophotometry for the detection of xanthochromia in patients with clinical symptoms suggestive of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) but normal cranial computed tomography (CT).
Preliminary experience with controlled lumbar drainage in medically refractory intracranial hypertension]	The contribution of brain edema to brain swelling in cases of traumatic brain injury remains a critical problem. In head injury, the swelling and eventual rise in intracranial pressure is a frequent cause of death, and in survivors the poor prognosis with sustained elevation of ICP has been well documented.
A simple method of estimating cerebrospinal fluid pressure during lumbar puncture.	It is often difficult to measure cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure in children. CSF flow through a spinal needle is described by the equation: Flow = pressure/(needle constant x relative viscosity). Thus, CSF flow rate during lumbar puncture can be used to estimate CSF pressure. Because the viscosity of CSF is approximately the same as that of normal saline, 0.9% NaCl was used to model CSF flow in vitro. Flow of saline through various spinal needles was measured as pressure and temperature were varied to determine needle constants and variation in viscosity with temperature. Counting periods for which the number of drops counted equals the pressure (in centimeters of H2O) then were determined for each needle size. At patient temperatures less than 40 degrees C, counting periods were calculated at 21, 39, and 12 seconds, for 22-gauge 1.5-inch, 22-gauge 3.5-inch, and 20-gauge 3.5-inch spinal needles, respectively. Viscosity decreased slightly above 40 degrees C, and counting periods became 20, 37, and 11 seconds. Finally, the method was tested prospectively in 12 patients by comparing drop count (over the calculated counting period) to manometric pressure measurement. Drop counts were within 15% of manometric pressure in all patients. This method allows simple and rapid estimation of CSF pressure during lumbar puncture.
Evaluation of long-term outcome and safety after hemodilution therapy in acute ischemic stroke.	In a previous single-center, randomized controlled trial including 102 patients treated in a stroke unit, we showed that rapid, modest hemodilution improved short-term clinical outcome in ischemic stroke patients. I now evaluate the long-term outcome and potential risks of this combined venesection/dextran 40 therapy in the same 52 treated and 50 control patients.
Herpes simplex type-2 encephalitis masked by diabetic ketoacidosis.	Diabetic ketoacidosis is a life-threatening acute complication of type-1 diabetes mellitus. Infection is the most common precipitating factor for diabetic ketoacidosis and is responsible for more than 50% of the cases. Here, we present a case study of a young man with herpes simplex virus type-2 encephalitis masked by diabetic ketoacidosis. We aim to orient clinicians towards being vigilant against such clinical scenarios.
Radioimmunoassay of beta-endorphin in ventricular and lumbar cerebrospinal fluid.	We describe a sensitive beta-endorphin (beta-EP) radioimmunoassay specific for beta-EP 1-31 applied to human ventricular and lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Specificity was documented by reversed-phase HPLC of CSF pools. Simultaneous ventricular and lumbar CSF samples from 13 patients suspected of having normal-pressure hydrocephalus showed median beta-EP values of 2.2 (range 1.7-4.0) and 4.8 (2.8-14.6) pmol/L, respectively. Ventricular and lumbar beta-EP concentrations were positively correlated (Spearman r = 0.72, P = 0.013). The beta-EP rostral-caudal gradient was closely related to the CSF protein gradient. HPLC profiles of beta-EP immunoreactivity were similar in ventricular and lumbar CSF with both C- and N-terminal antisera. beta-EP concentrations did not vary in the first 12 mL of lumbar CSF, tapped in 3-mL portions [F(3,32) = 0.42, P = 0.74]. The beta-EP concentration in lumbar CSF from 15 children in remission from acute leukemia [23.4 (15.0-27.1) pmol/L] was higher than in 54 healthy adults [11.7 (10.9-13.3) pmol/L; P less than 0.01]. There was no effect of sex or age on CSF beta-EP in adults. beta-EP in lumbar human CSF may indicate di- and mesencephalic beta-EP neuronal activity.
Presence of methyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolines, derivatives of the neurotoxin isoquinoline, in parkinsonian lumbar CSF.	The TIQ derivatives 2-methyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (2-MDTIQ) and 1-methyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1-MDTIQ, salsolinol) were identified the first time as possible endogenous neurotoxins in parkinsonian but not in normal human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Additionally, MDTIQ analogues were incubated with a monoamine oxidase (MAO) assay. MAO was able to metabolize dose-dependently 2-MDTIQ, whereas 1-MDTIQ was not modified by the enzyme.
Cerebrospinal fluid penetration of cefpirome in patients with non-inflamed meninges.	Twenty patients (mean age 52 +/- 12 years, mean weight 75 +/- 15 kg) scheduled for elective myelogram or spinal anaesthesia were enrolled to determine the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) penetration of a new expanded spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic, cefpirome (HR-810). A single 2 g intravenous dose of cefpirome was administered as a bolus between 1 and 8 h before lumbar puncture. Blood samples were collected at 15 pre-determined times and a single CSF sample was obtained at the time of lumbar puncture. Serum and CSF cefpirome concentrations were determined by high performance liquid chromatography. The mean maximal serum concentration of cefpirome was 264 +/- 76 mg/L. A mean steady-state volume of distribution of 20 +/- 4 L, clearance of 7.4 +/- 1.3 L/h, and half-life of 2.5 +/- 0.5 h were determined. Mean CSF concentrations were 0.50 +/- 0.11 mg/L at 1-2 h post dose (n = 4), 0.57 +/- 0.13 mg/L at 2-4 h post dose (n = 4), 0.76 +/- 0.34 mg/L at 4-6 h post dose (n = 7), and 0.83 +/- 0.29 mg/L at 6-8.3 h post dose (n = 5). Blood:brain barrier permeability to cefpirome may not be a limiting factor as CSF concentrations were rapidly attained. Further studies are required to determine the mechanism of cefpirome transport between plasma and CSF.
Seizures associated with meningitis.	The records of 187 patients with bacterial meningitis were reviewed. Seizures were a presenting manifestation in 25 (13%). Seven (28%) of the patients with a presenting seizure had been taking antibiotics prior to the diagnosis. Four of seven pretreated patients did not have additional signs or symptoms with the seizure, while all 18 patients without treatment had additional findings (P less than 0.01). Patients developing seizures while hospitalized had a poorer outcome than those without seizures. Patients with bacterial meningitis may present with only a seizure if they have been taking oral antibiotics; therefore, all patients taking antibiotics who develop a seizure require a lumbar puncture to exclude meningitis.
Idiopathic cranial polyneuropathies]	A series of 43 cases with multiple cranial nerve deficits was collected between 1972 and 1990. No diagnosis was established in 15 cases. The facial and the trigeminal nerves were most frequently affected. In 10 cases, a monophasic course was observed usually with recovery. Recurrence was present in 5 cases. An inflammatory mechanism was likely in 10 cases. Nosological relations between these cases and either Bell's palsy (idiopathic facial paralysis) or Tolosa-Hunt's syndrome are discussed.
Bilateral deafness, an initial manifestation of meningeal carcinomatosis]	Three cases of bilateral deafness with cytologically-demonstrated meningeal carcinomatosis are reported. The first patient, a 64-year old man, presented with bilateral deafness, gait disturbances, and bilateral facial paresis. The second patient, a 78-year-old man, had bilateral deafness, unsteady gait and fluctuations in consciousness. The last patient, a 69-year-old man, complained of bilateral deafness and severe headache, and presented with right facial paresis and left laterodeviation while walking. All three patients had abnormal cochleo-vestibular findings and brainstem auditory evoked responses (BAER) that suggested peripheral lesions with absent or very delayed I waves. The brain CT scans with an without contrast enhancement were entirely normal, and the diagnosis was established by lumbar puncture. From our own cases and a review of the literature, deafness in meningeal carcinomatosis may start unilaterally but becomes bilateral in less than a week. Vestibular disturbances may not be apparent, but they can be demonstrated in almost all cases. Facial paresis or plegia is also a very frequent finding. The destruction of the eighth and seventh cranial nerves is probably due to direct infiltration by neoplastic cells as well as to ischemia through compression of the nerve supplying vessels. The 3 cases presented here emphasize once again the important fact that meningeal carcinomatosis remains a cytological diagnosis, several lumbar punctures being sometimes necessary, and that cerebrospinal fluid studies cannot yet be supplanted by other diagnostic techniques like contrast-enhanced CT or MRI with gadolinium.
Cerebrospinal fluid exchange after intrathecal methotrexate overdose. A report of two cases.	Two patients aged 11 and four years, were accidentally given a 10-fold overdose of intrathecal methotrexate while being treated for malignant disease. Neither patient developed any signs of neurotoxicity and exchange of lumbar cerebro-spinal fluid was started 3 and 5 h later, respectively. In one of the patients, who received 120 mg of methotrexate intrathecally, 31% of the given dose was recovered during 2 h of cerebrospinal fluid exchange that was started 3 h after the accidental overdosage. No sequelae were observed in any of the patients. Cerebrospinal fluid exchange is safe and can be recommended in all cases of intrathecal methotrexate overdosage. Ventriculo-cisternal perfusion is not necessary in cases of a 10-fold overdose if the patient has no signs of acute neurotoxicity.
Treatment of impaired consciousness with lumbar punctures in a patient with cryptococcal meningitis and AIDS.	A 50 year old man with AIDS, cryptococcal meningitis and a normal CT-scan developed impaired consciousness and even deep coma associated with very high CSF pressure. After lumbar CSF drainage consciousness improved dramatically. We conclude that in patients with cryptococcal meningitis who have impaired consciousness and a normal CT scan, CSF drainage to improve the level of consciousness should be considered.
Neurosyphilis is unlikely in patients with late latent syphilis and a negative blood VDRL-test.	Patients with latent syphilis or syphilis of unknown duration should be evaluated for tertiary disease and neurosyphilis. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine relevant serological parameters for the identification of those individuals with syphilis who are most likely to have neurosyphilis and who therefore require lumbar puncture. After excluding repeated estimates and patients whose blood syphilis serology had either been negative or not been determined within 3 months of lumbar puncture, 265 out of 710 cerebrospinal fluids from 1988 to 2004 were analysed. In each of those patients the earliest available pairs of serum and cerebrospinal fluid samples were evaluated. The diagnosis of neurosyphilis was based on criteria according to established guidelines. Forty-three of 265 patients (16.2%; 5 women, 38 men; mean age 47+/-16 years) had neurosyphilis. Seven of 72 (9.7%) of those testing HIV-positive, fulfilled the criteria of neurosyphilis. Not a single patient with neurosyphilis tested Venereal Disease Research Laboratory test (VDRL)-negative in peripheral blood, an effect which was highly significant (p < 0.01, chi2-test). The median blood-VDRL titre was significantly higher in patients with neurosyphilis than in those without (1:32 vs. 1:0; p < 0.01, t-test, two-sided). Hence, neurosyphilis is very unlikely in patients with a negative blood-VDRL. Therefore, lumbar puncture is not recommended in these patients.
Multifocal choroiditis in disseminated Cryptococcus neoformans infection.	To report an uncommon case of multifocal choroiditis as the result of disseminated Cryptococcus neoformans infection in a patient who is HIV-positive.
Emergency physicians can easily obtain ultrasound images of anatomical landmarks relevant to lumbar puncture.	Although ultrasound has been used in administering epidural anesthesia, it is unknown if emergency physicians (EPs) can obtain ultrasound images useful for lumbar puncture.
The use of ultrasound to identify pertinent landmarks for lumbar puncture.	This study was conducted to assess the ultrasound's (US's) ability to identify pertinent landmarks for lumbar puncture (LP) in patients of various body mass indices (BMIs) and establish spatial relationships of pertinent LP landmarks across BMIs.
Major complications of epidural analgesia after surgery: results of a six-year survey.	We performed a retrospective case note review to identify the major complications of epidural analgesia occurring after surgery at our hospital. By cross-referencing the radiology, microbiology and patient information management system databases, we identified patients who had undergone either spinal magnetic resonance imaging or a lumbar puncture within 60 days of surgery in the period from January 2000 to December 2005. Review of these case notes identified six cases of epidural abscess, three of meningitis and three of epidural haematoma. Symptoms of epidural abscess or meningitis developed a median of 5 days after epidural catheter removal. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus was the predominant pathogen. Epidural haematoma symptoms developed while the epidural catheter was in place. These symptoms were initially attributed to the epidural infusion. Diagnostic delays contributed to adverse neurological outcome in three patients. This study suggests that leg weakness is a critical monitor of spinal cord health. A national database is needed to establish a more accurate estimate of the incidence of major complications and to identify relevant risk factors.
Randomized clinical trial of prevention of hydrocephalus after intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants: brain-washing versus tapping fluid.	Hydrocephalus is a serious complication of intraventricular hemorrhage in preterm infants, with adverse consequences from permanent ventriculoperitoneal shunt dependence. The development of hydrocephalus takes several weeks, but no clinical intervention has been shown to reduce shunt surgery in such infants. The aim of this study was to test a new treatment intended to prevent hydrocephalus and shunt dependence after intraventricular hemorrhage.
Expanding the clinical spectrum of central pontine myelinolysis.	Central Pontine Myelinolysis (CPM) is a clinical entity first described by Adams et all in 1958 in the context of malnourishment and alcoholism. Classically, this demyelinating disease arises from the rapid correction of hyponatraemia, resulting in profound neurological deficits such as spastic quadraplegia and pseudobulbar palsy. Diagnosis is usually made on the presence of a symmetrical, centralized and well-circumscribed lesion in the pens, seen on MRI. Extrapontine lesions have also been described, frequently affecting the midbrain, thalamus, cerebellum and rarely extends to the medulla. We present a case of a 41 year old lady who presented with acute neurological deterioration, with physical signs to suggest a disease process involving the whole brainstem. However, MRI brain showed a lesion similar to that found in CPM, at the junction of the pons and medulla.
Proteomic identification of potential protein markers in cerebrospinal fluid of GBS patients.	Increased protein level in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a characteristic of patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), an acute inflammatory autoimmune disorder in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the disease remain poorly understood and so far no reliable disease-related markers are available. By comparing the CSF proteome of GBS patients with control subjects suffering from other neurological disorders, it may be possible to identify proteins that involve in the disease process and thus to study the pathogenesis of GBS. We used two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D DIGE) technique, in combination with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS), to determine the abnormal CSF proteins in GBS patients. Our data showed that the levels of six proteins and their isoforms in CSF were significantly altered in GBS patients compared with controls. Haptoglobin, apolipoprotein A-IV and PRO2044 (unnamed protein) were considerably increased in the CSF of GBS patients, whereas transthyretin, apolipoprotein E and fibrinogen were considerably decreased. We concluded that these six proteins may be involved in the pathogenesis of GBS and call for further studying the role of these proteins in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Endovascular treatment of endoleaks after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair: personal experience.	This paper describes the different endovascular treatments (cuffs, endografts and embolisation) available for types I, II and III endoleaks occurring after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR).
Retropharyngeal cerebrospinal fluid collection as a cause of postoperative dysphagia after anterior cervical discectomy.	Transient dysphagia after anterior cervical discectomy is not uncommon. It is usually related to esophageal edema secondary to retraction, mechanical adhesions of the esophagus to the anterior spine, and stretch injuries to nerves involved in the swallowing mechanism. Structurally induced dysphagia, secondary to laceration of the neck viscera or to the presence of retropharyngeal masses, is by far less frequent, and it does not usually improve over time.
Analysis of intrathecal interleukin-6 as a potential predictive factor for vasospasm in subarachnoid hemorrhage.	Inflammatory response seems to be one of the relevant pathophysiological aspects for developing vasospasm in subarachnoid hemorrhage. The probable diagnostic value of intrathecal proinflammatory markers is still unclear and is assessed in this study.
Diagnosis and treatment of idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus.	Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) is characterized by a classic triad of symptoms including dementia, urinary incontinence, and gait disturbance. INPH is clinically diagnosed in most patients during the sixth or seventh decade of life. Many older adults are incorrectly diagnosed with disorders such as Parkinson's disease and dementia when their symptoms are actually caused by INPH. As life expectancy increases, the necessity of accurately diagnosing and effectively treating these affected individuals will become more challenging. The diagnosis of INPH is challenging and requires a combination of clinical signs and symptoms, radiographic findings, and diagnostic testing. The purpose of evaluation and testing of individuals with suspected INPH is to determine if surgical implantation of a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt will be beneficial. VP shunting is now a common neurosurgical procedure, but it is one associated with risks and complications, which makes evaluation of "shunt-responsiveness" essential.
Management of the febrile child: a survey of pediatric and emergency medicine residency directors.	We conducted a survey to determine whether there is uniformity in the training of residents regarding the management of febrile children. One hundred forty-three (62%) of 231 pediatric and 39 (53%) of the 73 emergency medicine residency directors responded. There was no uniformity in the definition of a fever. Ninety-nine percent of the pediatric and 82% of the emergency medicine residency directors teach that all febrile infants less than 4 weeks of age should be hospitalized (P less than 0.0001). Forty-six percent of residency directors teach that a lumbar puncture should be performed for all children less than 12 months of age with their first febrile convulsion. Thirty percent of pediatric and 62% of emergency medicine residency directors teach that a blood culture should be obtained from a child with fever without source who is younger than 24 months of age (P less than 0.0005). Nonspecific tests are taught to be used to determine which febrile child should have a blood culture as follows: white blood cell count, 50%; differential, 20%; erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 13%; and C-reactive protein, 2%. There was little uniformity of teaching regarding the approach to the febrile child and there were significant differences in training by specialty.
HPT axis, CSF monoamine metabolites, suicide intent and depression severity in male suicide attempters.	A lower thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in depressed women has been associated with violent suicide attempts, suicidal intent, higher lethality and suicide risk. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels are related to suicidal behaviour. We studied the HPT axis function in twelve male suicide attempters and eight healthy volunteers submitted to lumbar puncture and to TRH test. Suicidal behaviour and depression severity were assessed. There was no association between deltamaxTSH and violent suicidality or subsequent suicide. The deltamaxTSH correlated with CSF HVA in suicide attempters. The plasma T3 showed a negative correlation with the Beck Suicide Intent Scale and the Montgomery Asberg Depression rating scale. Dopaminergic regulatory mechanisms on the thyroid hormone activity may be altered in male suicide attempters.
Community acquired acute bacterial meningitis in children and adults: an 11-year survey in a community hospital in Israel.	We aimed to investigate the association between the presenting clinical manifestations of bacterial meningitis and the duration of time elapsed before lumbar puncture and start of antibiotic treatment.
The management of infants and children treated with aciclovir for suspected viral encephalitis.	To investigate how infants and children with suspected viral encephalitis are currently managed in a UK tertiary children's hospital.
Incidence of sterile cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis in infants with urinary tract infection.	To determine the incidence of sterile cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis in infants ≤6 months old with urinary tract infection (UTI).
Intracranial pressure in childhood cerebral malaria.	Lumbar punctures were performed in 40 Gambian children with acute cerebral malaria aged between 18 months and 10 years. The mean opening pressure was elevated in 32 (80%) of the children, but was not significantly different in the 14 fatal cases compared with survivors: 110 (standard deviation 71) versus 131 (58) mm of cerebrospinal fluid respectively. Cerebral perfusion pressures were also similar in the 2 groups: 64 (20) mm Hg versus 64 (11) mm Hg respectively. There was no clear clinical evidence of raised intracranial pressure, and no evidence of deterioration immediately following lumbar puncture. Nevertheless brain swelling, and consequent brain-stem compression, may contribute to a fatal outcome in cerebral malaria--particularly in those children who die from sudden respiratory arrest. A prospective evaluation of osmotic agents in childhood cerebral malaria seems to be justified.
Midazolam for conscious sedation during pediatric oncology procedures: safety and recovery parameters.	Multiple bone marrow aspirations or biopsies and lumbar punctures are a necessary part of the diagnosis and treatment of many pediatric cancer patients. Pharmacologic sedation may decrease the distress associated with these procedures. Midazolam (MDZ, Versed) is a water-soluble, rapid-onset, short-duration benzodiazepine that has not been studied widely in children. We prospectively evaluated safety and recovery parameters for intravenous MDZ used for conscious sedation by oncologists (without an anesthesiologist in attendance) for 70 procedures (bone marrow aspirations, lumbar punctures, or bone marrow aspirations plus lumbar punctures) in 24 ambulatory pediatric cancer patients, aged 1.5 to 15.5 years. MDZ was used alone or in combination with morphine or fentanyl. Respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, blood pressure, and heart rate were monitored. Sedation, anxiolysis, and recovery were assessed with a behavior score and a modified recovery room discharge score. Restraint was not required in 45% of the procedures. In no case was a respiratory rate less than 12 observed. In nine procedures (13%), an oxygen saturation less than or equal to 90 occurred, all within 10 minutes after the last dose of MDZ. Ten procedures (14%) required verbal stimulation to take deeper breaths. Two patients did not respond immediately to verbal stimulation and received face-mask oxygen. Hypoxemia was not correlated with opioid use. Hypoxemia appears to be related to total MDZ dose and may occur with normal respiratory rates; all cases resolved with verbal stimulation or face-mask oxygen without specific airway maneuvers or assisted ventilation. Heart rate and blood pressure remained stable in all 70 procedures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Midazolam premedication for pediatric bone marrow aspiration and lumbar puncture.	The ability of midazolam, a benzodiazepine, to reduce the distress associated with lumbar puncture and bone marrow aspiration was examined in 23 children with acute lymphocytic leukemia. Patients were randomized to receive 0.2 mg/kg midazolam HCl or placebo intravenously 3-5 min before the procedures, under double-blind conditions. Based on prior experiences, children in both groups anticipated severe pain from these procedures. Postprocedure pain ratings by patients were markedly reduced in the midazolam but not the placebo group. Both physicians and parents judged the midazolam group as significantly less distressed than controls during and after the procedures. Trained observers recorded significantly fewer pain- and anxiety-related behaviors in the midazolam group immediately before and after, but not during the procedures. The amnestic effects of midazolam, confirmed in a visual recall/recognition test, appear to account for the decreased pain ratings since the behavioral manifestations were similar in the two groups. There were no adverse drug reactions or significant changes in vital signs. Midazolam warrants further investigation as a premedication for painful diagnostic and treatment procedures in children with cancer.
Usefulness of routine lumbar puncture in non-HIV patients with latent syphilis of unknown duration.	To evaluate the usefulness of routine lumbar puncture in non-HIV patients with untreated latent syphilis.
The community hospital-based stroke programs in North Carolina, Oregon and New York--V. Stroke diagnosis: factors influencing the diagnostic evaluation of patients following acute stroke.	Among the 4129 patients of the Community Hospital-based Stroke Program, 30% had an unspecified stroke diagnosis. Since specific diagnosis and, perhaps, eventual treatment, derives in part from diagnostic testing, we examined the effect of clinical condition, geographic and demographic factors on the incidence of certain diagnostic tests after acute stroke. In this multivariable analysis, race, sex, history of hypertension and history of diabetes did not influence the chance of having any test, but older age strongly reduced the chances of receiving extensive evaluation. When CT scanning was available, the utilization of a CT as well as other diagnostic studies including cerebral angiography, radionuclide brain scan, EEG and EKG was increased. The odds of receiving a CT scan increased if the patient was married, and decreased with a history of previous stroke. A history of previous TIA increased the chance of having a cerebral angiogram while a history of cardiac disease decreased the chance. There were striking regional geographic differences in the use of CT, radionuclide brain scanning and cerebral angiography which may, in part, reflect differences between the availability of these technologies in urban and rural hospitals. These results indicate that evaluation of stroke patients remains heterogenous.
Intracranial pressure and cerebrospinal fluid outflow conductance in healthy subjects.	Conductance of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow (Cout) is an important parameter to be considered in patients with CSF circulation abnormalities. In patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus it is the single most important parameter in determining if the patient needs CSF shunting. The lower normal limit for Cout has been estimated from the effect of shunting in patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus, from patients retrospectively reevaluated after recovering from illness, and from patients with known abnormalities in the brain or the CSF system. The true value of Cout in normal individuals, however, has hitherto not been reported. In the present study, Cout has been measured by a lumbar infusion test in eight young volunteers with no suspicion of disease. The mean intracranial pressure (ICP) was 11 mm Hg and a linear relationship was found between CSF absorption and ICP. The mean Cout was 0.11 ml/min/mm Hg and the lower 95% confidence level was 0.10 ml/min/mm Hg. These values are in accordance with those obtained from previous studies.
Contribution of CSF analysis to diagnosis and follow-up of tuberculous meningitis]	We report the case of a patient who was admitted to the hospital because of language and mental confusion. His initial lumbar puncture revealed 193 leukocytes per mm3 mostly lymphocytes (95%), no red blood cells, high protein content (1.20 g/L) and normal glucose level. The antibiotic therapy by amoxicilline and aciclovir during 6 days led to complete clinical recovery in a week. A CT scan of the cerebrum showed no abnormalities, nor did chest radiography. Twelve days after discharge, the patient was rehospitalized because of a meningitis syndrome. On lumbar puncture, the CSF analysis revealed 280 leukocytes/mm3, 56% lymphocytes, 10% monocytes and 34% polymorphonuclear cells. CSF chemistry showed a protein level of 3.54 g/L, and a glucose level depressed at 0.9 mmol/L. Because of the clinical symptoms and CSF abnormalities, the patient received aciclovir, amoxicilline vancomycine, isoniazide, rifampicine, pyrazinamide and ethambutol. Screening for infections gave negative results until the 37th day, when the diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis was confirmed by the isolation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the repetitive CSF. Antituberculous therapy was expanded. According the Reiber diagrams, intrathecal IgG synthesis was negative at day 25, day 37, month 4, month 9, month 17. Intrathecal IgM synthesis was elevated at day 12 and day 25 and intrathecal IgA synthesis at day 25. Improvement of the patient's conditions by tuberculosis treatment was obtained in 17 months. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis has been the basis for the diagnosis and follow-up of tuberculous meningitidis.
A case of Behçet's disease with neurologic involvement: a clinical, neuroradiological, neurophysiological study and therapeutic considerations]	The Authors report a case of Behçet disease with neurological involvement appeared some years after the initial diagnosis. Clinical evaluation of CNS damages was completed by neurophysiological and neuroradiological tests: Computerized Tomography (CT), Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR), Pyramidal Evoked Potentials (MAPs), Somato Sensorial Evoked Potentials (SEPs), spinal puncture. Immunosuppressive therapies are also described.
Intrathecal synthesis of immunoglobulins in patients with unexplained intermediate uveitis.	To assess the value of lumbar punctures in adult patients with unexplained intermediate uveitis (IU).
Lumboperitoneal shunt in a patient with Behçet's disease with medically refractory intracranial hypertension.	A 21-year-old male presented with severe throbbing headache, nausea, vomiting and progressive visual loss. Clinical examination revealed bilateral papilledema and left abducens nerve palsy. MRI showed findings consistent with dural sinus thrombosis. Combinging the clinical findings, MRI and a positive pathergy test, the patient was diagnosed with dural sinus thrombosis associated with Behçet's disease (BD). Despite acetazolamide, prednisone, azathioprine and repeated lumbar punctures, his signs and symptoms of intracranial hypertension gradually worsened. Therefore, lumboperitoneal shunting was planned after which rapid resolution of intracranial hypertension was observed. After reviewing similar reports, we suggest that lumboperitoneal shunt placement can be an effective treatment for patients with BD with medically refractory intracranial hypertension associated with dural sinus thrombosis.
Neoplastic meningitis presenting with acute cerebellar ataxia.	Acute cerebellar ataxia is a rare initial presenting feature of neoplastic meningitis (NM), particularly in gastric cancer. The authors report a 61-year-old woman with acute cerebellar ataxia secondary to NM from gastric cancer, which was not accompanied by other symptoms commonly associated with NM at initial presentation. It is suggested that NM should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cancer patients with acute cerebellar ataxia.
Spinal epidural abscess in a neonate.	Spinal epidural abscess constitutes a neurosurgical emergency in which early diagnosis and prompt decompression are necessary to avoid permanent cord damage. This entity is rare in premature infants and neonates in whom diagnosis can be challenging. The authors present a case of a premature twin neonate who developed an epidural abscess with complete paraparesis after coagulase-negative Staphylococcus epidermidis bacteremia that was treated with a single-level flavotomy and catheter irrigation.
Investigating the effects of adult neural stem cell transplantation by lumbar puncture in transient cerebral ischemia.	Stem cells have the ability to self renew and are therefore a good source for cell therapy following ischemia. In this study, we transplanted adult rat neural stem cells (NSCs) by lumbar puncture (LP) to investigate whether these cells can migrate and differentiate into neurons or glial cells, thereby improving functional outcome in cerebral ischemia. Transient ischemia was induced in adult rats (n=16) for 1h. Three days after the induction of ischemia, NSCs obtained from the subventricular zone of adult rats were injected into ischemic animals (n=8) by LP at the level of L6-S1. Improved recovery of the coordination of movement on the 1st, 7th, 14th, 21st and 28th days after the injury was examined by the Rotarod test and compared with non-transplanted ischemic animals (n=8). The presence of NSCs in the brain tissue of the animals was examined by immunohistofluorscence and immunohistochemical techniques. The coordination of movement in ischemic animals that received neural stem cells was improved significantly (P<0.05) compared with untreated ischemic animals. Cells labeled with PKH26 were observed in the ischemic area of brain tissue sections. The alkaline phosphatase test and immunohistochemical techniques demonstrated a gathering of NSCs in the lateral ventricle. A number of cells which expressed neuronal and astrocytic cell markers had migrated from the lateral ventricle to the subjacent brain parenchyma. NSCs injected by LP were able to migrate to the ischemic tissue and differentiate into neural-like cells. These differentiated cells may have improved the coordination in movement in the ischemic animals injected with NSCs.
Infection in pediatric interventional radiology.	Interventional radiology in children involves nearly every aspect of infectious disease. Diagnosis, treatment, prophylaxis and disease transmission in infectious disease are a daily part of pediatric interventional radiology practice. This article will discuss each of these aspects of infection with respect to interventional radiology.
Disease-modifying properties of long-term lithium treatment for amnestic mild cognitive impairment: randomised controlled trial.	Two recent clinical studies support the feasibility of trials to evaluate the disease-modifying properties of lithium in Alzheimer's disease, although no benefits were obtained from short-term treatment.
Reversal of delayed-onset paraparesis after revision thoracic endovascular aortic repair for ruptured thoracic aortic aneurysm.	Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) is an important surgical option for the emergency treatment of ruptured thoracic aortic aneurysms, but is associated with a risk of spinal cord ischemia (SCI). Although risk factors for the development of SCI have been well described, the effectiveness of treatment to increase spinal cord perfusion pressure remains incompletely understood. We report the successful treatment of delayed-onset paraparesis after revision TEVAR for acute descending thoracic aortic rupture with the combined use of blood pressure augmentation and cerebrospinal fluid drainage. The clinical manifestations, pathophysiology, and management of SCI after TEVAR are reviewed.
Diagnostic value of microwaves in neurological disorders.	Lumbar puncture is a key diagnostic investigation in neurological diseases. The effect of microwaves on various biological tissues is an active area of research. This study describes a novel in-vitro method of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis using microwaves.
Progress in diagnostic measures for idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus: the role of clinical features, neuroimagings, and tap test]	The symptoms of idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) are generally seen in aged, and iNPH has been overlooked or misdiagnosed. In Japan, since the Clinical Guidelines were published, remarkable progress are noted in the recognition of it and clinical researches for it. In this paper, recent progress diagnostic measures for iNPH is discussed, focusing on the key role of clinical features, neuroimagings, and tap test. As for clinical symptoms, in particular the distinctive features of cognitive and behavioral symptoms have been delineated. The clinical significance of MRI features of iNPH, i.e., ventriculomegary with tight high convexty/midline subarachnoid spaces and enlarged Sylvian fissures, have been validated in a prospective cohort study, Study of Idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus on Neurological Improvement (SINPHONI). Disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid-space hydrocephalus (DESH) has been proposed to designate iNPH with these MRI features consisting of a major proportion of iNPH. Although tap test is useful in diagnosis and in making decision of shunt surgery, the results of SINPHONI suggest that its procedure needs to be refined to increase the diagnostic accuracy.
Magnetic field-based delivery of human CD133⁺ cells promotes functional recovery after rat spinal cord injury.	Experimental animal study of spinal cord injury (SCI), using a cell delivery system.
Intra-CSF administration of chemotherapy medications.	Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis is a devastating complication of cancer and is likely increasing in incidence. The combination of widespread neuro-axial spread based on CSF flow and the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has favored immediate local delivery of antineoplastic agents. With the BBB, the leptomeninges can be a sanctuary site to systemic cancers and goal of therapy includes preventing involvement in this space. Current therapies with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval are limited to treat hematologic cancers. Although lacking FDA guidance, a wider array of therapies is available to treat solid tumors. We provide an updated examination on both well-established intra-CSF chemotherapies as well as agents having limited data, but reports of therapeutic benefit.
Acute community-acquired bacterial meningitis in adults: an evidence-based review.	Community-acquired bacterial meningitis is still a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Clinicians should know how to quickly diagnose it, perform a lumbar puncture, order the necessary tests, and start appropriate empiric therapy promptly.
Pediatric caudal anesthesia : importance and aspects of safety concerns]	Caudal block is a safe procedure commonly used for pediatric perioperative analgesia. Complications are extremely rare but nevertheless local and systemic contraindications must be excluded. Optimal safety and quality result when strict attention is paid to technical details. These are discussed in detail in this review. A local anesthetic (LA) containing epinephrine allows early detection of inadvertent intravascular LA administration; therefore an epinephrine/LA mixture is recommended at least for the test dose. In terms of safety the choice of LA itself is probably of secondary importance. Clonidine as an adjuvant has an excellent risk/benefit profile with minimal side effects. Inadvertent systemic LA intoxication is a rare but potentially fatal complication of regional anesthesia and measures for prevention and early detection are essential. Should circulatory arrest occur, immediate resuscitation following standard guidelines is to be initiated including the use of epinephrine as the first line drug. Intravenous administration of lipid solutions may be beneficial as a secondary adjunct to stabilize hemodynamics but is not an alternative to epinephrine.
Clinical aspects of adult syphilis.	Syphilis has been resurgent in Australian cities for the last decade. The varied presentation of this infection requires the physician to consider syphilis in the differential diagnosis of a broad range of conditions. Most cases are in men who have sex with men, young people in remote Aboriginal communities, or travellers from high-prevalence countries. The diagnosis and staging of syphilis require a sexual history, physical examination and interpretation of serological and microbiological findings. Penicillin remains the mainstay of effective treatment and has been used successfully for over 65 years. Treatment failure is rare, whereas reinfection is common. The interaction of syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus is complex, but standard therapy remains curative, and lumbar puncture is rarely required. Regular testing of high-risk individuals, contact tracing with empirical treatment and serological follow up are important components of syphilis control.
CSF biomarkers correlate with cerebral blood flow on SPECT in healthy elderly.	The preclinical patterns of biological markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in vivo need further exploration. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate CSF biomarkers, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cognitive performance in cognitively healthy older individuals.
An unusual case of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).	A 49-year-old healthy white British female, not previously known to psychiatric services, presented with an acute onset of florid psychotic symptoms. Her symptoms included visual, auditory and tactile hallucinations as well as persecutory delusions. She was started on antipsychotic medication; however, her psychotic symptoms did not improve significantly in the first 3 months. Her blood tests were normal. Lumbar puncture was performed which was positive for protein 14-3-3. A computed tomography scan of the brain showed generalised atrophic changes. The history of early visual hallucinations, rapid cognitive decline and positive 14-3-3 result was in keeping with the Heidenhain variant of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD). Despite a short life expectancy as reported in literature, our patient, who was diagnosed with sCJD more than two-and-a-half years ago, is still alive. We therefore believe this is an important finding to report.
Should a lumbar puncture be performed in any child with acute peripheral facial palsy and clinical suspicion of Lyme borreliosis?]	Lyme borreliosis should be considered in any child affected with acute peripheral facial palsy without obvious cause in endemic areas, especially if it happens from May to November, with a history of erythema migrans, tick bite, or possible exposure during the previous weeks. The clinical appearance of Lyme borreliosis differs between adults and children and according to the geographical origin of the infection: therefore it is difficult to interpret and follow the recommendations for the management and treatment of this disease. Neuroborreliosis is more frequent in Europe than in the United States, and meningitis associated to facial palsy occurs earlier and is more frequent among the European pediatric population, too. When peripheral facial palsy occurs and there is suspicion of Lyme borreliosis, it seems necessary to perform a lumbar puncture in order to support the diagnosis with detection of intrathecal synthesis of specific antibodies, sometimes more abundant than in the serum, and thus to adapt the antibiotic therapy modalities. Parenteral antibiotherapy is recommended if any involvement is detected in the cerebrospinal fluid, while oral antibiotherapy should be prescribed for isolated facial palsies. Follow-up should be made according to clinical symptoms with a close collaboration between pediatricians, infection disease specialists, and ENT specialists.
Lumbar puncture: diagnosing acute central nervous system infections.	Lumbar puncture has an important role in the diagnosis of acute central nervous system infections. The clinical contraindications to lumbar puncture must be considered before the procedure is carried out, and nurses need to have an understanding of how best to inform, support and reassure patients.
Assessment of cerebral blood flow during infusion test in the diagnosis of normal pressure hydrocephalus.	Many studies indicate that the increase in intracranial pressure (ICP) leads to cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) changes. This relationship was accurately determined in patients with traumatic brain injury,
Comparison of haemodynamic changes in patients undergoing unilateral and bilateral spinal anaesthesia.	To assess the haemodynamic changes in patients receiving unilateral and bilateral spinal anaesthesia with their pre-anaesthesia recordings.
Intrathecal soluble HLA-E correlates with disease activity in patients with multiple sclerosis and may cooperate with soluble HLA-G in the resolution of neuroinflammation.	Expression and function of the immunoregulatory molecule HLA-E was investigated in patients with relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS). Serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) soluble (s)HLA-E and -G levels were measured by ELISA in 80 RRMS patients. Controls were patients with other inflammatory neurological disorders (OIND, n = 81) and noninflammatory neurological disorders (NIND, n = 86). Serum sHLA-E concentrations were higher in RRMS than in NIND patients only. CSF sHLA-E concentrations were higher in RRMS than controls. Increased CSF sHLA-E levels were detected in MRI inactive and clinically stable RRMS patients. sHLA-E intrathecal synthesis (ITS) was higher in RRMS than controls, and the number of patients with sHLA-E ITS above cut-off was higher i) in MS than controls, and ii) in clinically stable than clinically active MS patients. sHLA-E CSF levels and ITS correlated with i) the same sHLA-G parameters, and ii) disease duration. HLA-E expression and co-expression with CD markers were investigated in MS plaques from three different cases by immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy, respectively. Infiltrating T lymphocytes and macrophages, as well as resident microglial cells and astrocytes expressed HLA-E. CSF samples from MS patients were finally tested for inhibitory activity of in vitro CTL and NK cell mediated cytotoxicity. sHLA-E⁺ were more effective than sHLA-E⁻ CSF samples in such inhibition. Maximum inhibition was achieved with sHLA-E⁺/sHLA-G⁺ CSF samples In conclusion, increased sHLA-E CSF levels may play an immunomodulatory role in MS, contributing to the inhibition of intrathecal inflammatory response. The potential of sHLA-E as biomarker of MS activity warrants further investigation.
Patterns of retinal hemorrhage associated with increased intracranial pressure in children.	Raised intracranial pressure (ICP) has been proposed as an isolated cause of retinal hemorrhages (RHs) in children with suspected traumatic head injury. We examined the incidence and patterns of RHs associated with increased ICP in children without trauma, measured by lumbar puncture (LP).
Absence of jolt accentuation of headache cannot accurately rule out meningitis in adults.	Meningitis is a common emergency disease. Signs and symptoms easily observed at the bedside are needed because early recognition of the possibility of meningitis is necessary for the decision to perform lumbar puncture. Jolt accentuation of headache has been reported to be the most sensitive diagnostic test; however, limited articles have reproduced its sensitivity.
Human parechovirus central nervous system infections in southern California children.	Human parechoviruses (hPeV) are increasingly recognized as significant etiological agents for meningoencephalitis especially in young children, but testing of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for hPeV by PCR is not routinely performed.
Assessment of the outcomes associated with periprocedural anticoagulation management in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	To report the outcomes of an institutional protocol for periprocedural anticoagulant (AC) management in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
Pneumococcal meningitis in a pregnant woman]	Bacterial meningitis is a life-threatening disease. The incidence of meningitis is about 2.6-6 cases per 100.000 adults per year in developed countries. The most common causative microorganisms are Sreptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis. A 33-year-old multigravida, at 24 week of gestation was admitted to the hospital because of ear pain, haedache, fever and confusion. Lumbal puncture was performed and cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed signs of bacterial meningitis. Latex agglutination test was positive for S. pneumoniae, Gram-positive diplococci have seen under microscope and later cultivation verified S. pneumoniae as the causative agent. After ceftriaxon, dexamethasone administration and treatment in intensive care unit, left side mastoidectomy was performed since cranial computed tomography showed acut exacerbation of chronic mastoiditis on the left side. After extubation, mobilisation and 14 days antibiotic treatment the patient, who had residual hearing loss on the left side, was discharged from the hospital. During the treatment the foetal parameters were normal. The patient at 39 week of gestation gave birth to a healthy infant. Forty-eight case reports have been published in this topic around the world until April, 2012. The most common causative agents were S. pneumoniae and Listeria monocytogenes. Because of the little amount of data, it is hard to appreciate the actual incidence and prognosis of this life-threatening illness both for mother and infant. As far as we know this is the first published case report of meningitis during pregnancy in Hungary. By this article we would like to draw attention to the importance of teamwork, of prevention of brain abscess formation and of the removal of the infection's focus.
Xanthochromia after subarachnoid haemorrhage needs no revisitation.	Recently it was contended that it is bloodstained cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that is important in the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and not xanthochromia, and also that a normal CT scan and the absence of xanthochromia in the CSF do not exclude a ruptured intracranial aneurysm. The CSF findings were therefore reviewed of 111 patients with a proven SAH. All patients had xanthochromia of the CSF. Lumbar punctures were performed between 12 hours and one week after the ictus. Xanthochromia was still present in all (41) patients after 1 week, in all (32) patients after 2 weeks, in 20 of 22 patients after three weeks and in 10 of 14 patients after four weeks. In six years we identified only 12 patients with sudden headache, normal CT, bloodstained CSF, and no xanthochromia. Angiography was carried out in three and was negative. All 12 patients survived without disability and were not re-admitted with a SAH (mean follow up 4 years). It is concluded that it is still xanthochromia that is important in the diagnosis of SAH and not bloodstained CSF. Furthermore a normal CT scan and the absence of xanthochromia do exclude a ruptured aneurysm, provided xanthochromia is investigated by spectrophotometry and lumbar puncture is carried out between 12 hours and 2 weeks after the ictus.
Endotracheal intubation in thoracic catheter peridural anesthesia]	After standard preparation, the catheter is preferably inserted in a sitting position. A test dose of 4 ml etidocaine 1% is injected, initially followed by 1 ml per segment of the total calculated analgesic dose. Analgesic spread, blood pressure, and pulse are checked every 2 min. If a sufficient effect is not reached within 20 min, a further 2 ml per segment is injected. The patient is sedated in the operating room with diazepam, droperidol, or chlorpromazine and receives 6-8 l O2 during spontaneous respiration via a Hudson mask. The epidural catheter is left in place for postoperative analgesia. Intubation is used only as required. Of a total of 52 patients, 31 (60%) did not require intubation, 24 (46%) were age 70 or older, and 31 (60%) were classified as ASA risk group III-IV. Thirty-three of all the procedures (63%) involved upper abdominal surgery (liver, gallbladder) and the majority of these received thoracic (Th 9-10) punctures, with the catheter inserted 5 cm in the epidural space; 88% were punctured medially and 12% laterally. The most frequent complications were bradycardia and hypotension. Respiratory arrest and aspiration were not seen. Thoracic epidural catheter anesthesia can be carried out with or without intubation and with a minimum of complications in selected procedures. Postoperative analgesia is an important advantage.
Effect of lumbar puncture on flow of cerebrospinal fluid.	The rate at which isotopes descend from the cisterna magna to the lumbar subarachnoid space is highly variable. In monkeys, with and without previous lumbar puncture, transit time was measured. In animals with a previous lumbar puncture, transit times were 10 to 120 minutes; in monkeys without a previous lumbar puncture, transit times were 120 to 180 minutes. In experimental studies of cerebrospinal fluid circulation, the effect of lumbar puncture must be controlled.
Evaluation of routine lumbar punctures in newborn infants with respiratory distress syndrome.	Infants with respiratory distress syndrome are routinely evaluated for infection which commonly includes a lumbar puncture. In this study cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination failed to elicit evidence for meningitis in 238 consecutively admitted infants with respiratory distress syndrome evaluated during the first 24 hours of life. Blood cultures were obtained in all; suprapubic or catheterized urine was obtained in 163 infants; CSF was collected successfully in 203 infants. Seventeen infants demonstrated positive blood cultures: 7 Streptococcus, 5 Staphylococcus, 3 Haemophilus influenzae, 1 Bacillus subtilis and 1 diphtheroid infection. CSF obtained from 14 of those infants had normal examinations and sterile cultures. Factors associated with bacteremia were birth weight (P less than 0.01), gestational age (P less than 0.01), prolonged rupture of membranes (P less than 0.05) and leukopenia below 10 000/mm3 (P less than 0.05). In view of the negative CSF examinations in infants with positive blood cultures and the potential complications of lumbar puncture (hypoxia, trauma, infection, epidermoid tumor), the potential risks of CSF evaluation may exceed the assessed benefit for the infant with respiratory distress syndrome.
Complications of myelography after partial metrizamide withdrawal.	Lumbar metrizamide myelography (LMM) has been associated with a high incidence of side effects. A total of 94 patients underwent LMM for suspected disc disease or spinal stenosis. In Group 1 a 22-gauge spinal needle was used. Containing the same amount and concentration of metrizamide, an 18-gauge spinal needle was used in Group 2 after which there was partial withdrawal of the metrizamide (average withdrawal: 73%). In Group 1 a total of 38% of patients experienced one side effect whereas 8.5% had two side effects. In Group 2 a total of 8.5% of patients experienced one side effect and 4.25% had two side effects. This study demonstrates a statistically (P less than 0.003) lower incidence of side effects with metrizamide withdrawal after myelography.
Combined CT metrizamide syringography and needle aspiration of cystic intramedullary spinal cord lesions.	A modified spinal cord puncture technique that was combined with CT metrizamide syringography for the evaluation of potentially cystic spinal cord lesions has been used in 5 patients. This procedure proved to be safe and efficacious in the preoperative differentiation of cystic neoplasms from syringohydromyelia. It also aided in planning a surgical approach by revealing details of the tumor location and/or syrinx dynamics. Spinal cord puncture associated with CT metrizamide syringography has a role in the diagnosis and therapy of patients with cystic spinal cord lesions.
Midazolam (Dormicum) for sedation of children in painful interventions]	In children painful diagnostic and therapeutic investigations require sedation and sometimes local anaesthesia. We tested Midazolam, a new benzodiazepine, for its sedative effect. Midazolam is the first derivate of imidabenzodiazepine and is remarkable for its rapid effect and a short half-life. It has good hypnotic, anxiolytic and amnesic properties. Sleep sets in immediately after intravenous application of Midazolam, and all patients reported anterograde amnesia afterwards. Over 24 months we observed 266 children who had been given Midazolam as a basic sedative before painful investigations. For sleep induction Midazolam was given in a dose of 0.3 mg/kg in children older than 6 years and 0.4 mg/kg in children younger than 6 years. The maximal dose was 15 mg. All patients fell asleep and did not remember anything about the procedure. In 30 patients pulse, blood pressure and respiration rate were measured before and after application of Midazolam. The quality of sleep was determined by the Glasgow-Coma-Scale. We did not observe any side effects.
Emergency department lumbar puncture: clinical application and utility of laboratory testing.	Lumbar puncture is an emergency department procedure for evaluating patients with suspected central nervous system infection or hemorrhage. To determine whether extensive testing of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from emergency department patients was useful, charts of 104 adult patients who underwent lumbar puncture in a university hospital emergency department were reviewed. Examination of the CSF disclosed pleocytosis in 25 (24%) of the patients; the presence of red blood cells was considered to be clinically significant in two patients. An abnormal level of CSF protein was present in 62% of patients, and abnormal levels of glucose in 32%. Fungal element testing was negative each of the 72 times it was performed; Gram stain disclosed a bacterial pathogen in one patient. Cultures for fungus and tuberculosis were uniformly negative, as were all immunologic tests. Bacterial cultures grew a pathogen in one patient. No patient with a normal neurologic examination and normal initial CSF analysis was diagnosed subsequently as having acute central nervous system disease. The preponderance of negative or normal results of testing of CSF suggests that extensive testing may not be necessary for all patients. Limitation of sophisticated testing to only those samples with abnormal cell counts or chemistries or from patients at high risk should result in substantial cost saving without compromising patient care.
Human immunodeficiency virus-associated meningitis. Clinical course and correlations.	Fourteen patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) had a lymphocytic pleocytosis unexplained by secondary pathogens or neoplasms. Three men had prior diagnoses of Kaposi's sarcoma; none had acquired immune deficiency syndrome-defining opportunistic infections. Two patterns of illness were observed. Seven men had an acute, self-limited illness that was often accompanied by meningeal findings. The other seven had chronic headaches without signs of meningeal irritation and had less marked abnormalities of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cell count and protein. Encephalopathy was a finding in only one of 14 patients. In four of five CSF specimens studied, HIV was recovered. HIV has been associated with acute meningitis at the time of seroconversion and can apparently also cause sporadic episodes of acute or chronic meningitis in patients with prior infection and relatively preserved immune function. Both the clinical presentation with predominant headache rather than encephalopathy and the presence of CSF inflammation differentiate this syndrome from other HIV-related neurologic complications.
Normal pressure hydrocephalus. Predictive value of the cerebrospinal fluid tap-test.	Twenty-seven patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus were operated upon by a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt. Selection for shunt surgery was based on typical symptoms (gait disturbancy, mental deterioration and urgency incontinence) and characteristic changes at cranial computed tomography and/or radionuclide cisternography. Prior to operation a cerebrospinal fluid tap-test (CSF-TT) was performed with measurements of psychometric functions and gait pattern before and after a lumbar puncture of 50 cc CSF. Nineteen patients improved and 5 were unchanged after shunt operation. Three patients could not be evaluated. Improvement in the psychometric functions and gait pattern after lumbar puncture correlated to improvement after the shunt operation (r = 0.64, p less than 0.01: r = 0.96, p less than 0.001, respectively). Improvement in 2 or more of the 4 tests used (3 psychometric and 1 gait test) at CSF-TT implied in all cases successful result of the shunt operation. It was concluded that CSF-TT could predict which NPH patient will improve by a shunt operation, and albeit to envisage the degree of improvement.
Interpretation of traumatic lumbar puncture. A prospective experimental model.	Contamination of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with blood at the time of collection interferes with the interpretation of laboratory studies. Twenty-four children with normal CSF were studied prospectively using an experimental model. Blood was added to clear CSF, producing red cell counts from 1,000 to 600,000 cells per cubic millimeter. The expected values for white blood cell count, protein, percent neutrophils, and glucose were calculated, using the results from uncontaminated CSF, peripheral blood cell counts, blood protein, and the red blood cell count of the contaminated specimen. The ratio of observed values to expected values ranged from 0.13 to 3.00 for CSF white blood cell count (mean 0.96, standard deviation 0.56), from 0.55 to 1.63 for CSF protein (mean 0.97, standard deviation 0.23), and from 0.10 to 2.25 for percent neutrophils in the CSF (mean 1.17, standard deviation 0.41). CSF glucose was unchanged by the addition of blood. Guidelines for interpretation of laboratory studies following traumatic lumbar puncture are suggested.
A primate model for study of methotrexate pharmacokinetics in the central nervous system.	A new technique enabling repetitive sampling of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in unanesthetized rhesus monkeys was developed to study the pharmacokinetics of methotrexate (MTX) in the CSF. CSF and plasma MTX levels were monitored following intraventricular and intravenous MTX administration. CSF and plasma MTX disappearance curves in the monkey were virtually identical to curves generated in humans, suggesting that the mechanisms of transport between the CSF and plasma compartments are similar in both species. These observations validate this experimental primate model and indicate its potential application to the pharmacological study of CNS chemotherapeutic agents in man.
Low-symptom herpes simplex encephalitis (author's transl)]	A 39-year-old man had acoustic hallucinations for about one year due to chronic alcoholism. He suddenly lost consciousness after suffering from headaches for about four weeks. EEG and CT scan were indicative of a brain tumour but lumbar puncture revealed slight pleocytosis and an immunoglobulin G fraction synthesized within the central nervous system. This secretory fraction contained major portions of locally produced herpes simplex antibodies detectable with a complement fixation test and a recently developed enzyme immunoassay. The patient remained in hospital for only a few days and went back to work after six weeks. To our knowledge this is the first case reported surviving herpes simplex encephalitis outside hospital without impairment of consciousness, confusion or substantial neurologic symptoms. The question remains open, whether the generally severe course of this disease had been modified by the chronic alcoholism. It is obvious that the correct diagnosis would have been missed without lumbar puncture.
Ventricular dilation after neonatal periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage. Natural history and therapeutic implications.	Infants with periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage (PV-IVH) were followed up with weekly ultrasound sector scans to define the natural history of late ventricular dilation (ie, dilation in excess of that seen at the time of diagnosis of PV-IVH). Infants fell into two groups: (1) posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH), dilation that produced an increase in occipitofrontal circumference greater than 2 cm per week and/or clinical symptoms of increased intracranial pressure; and (2) ventriculomegaly (VM), dilation that stabilized or reversed without producing these effects. The former was directly related to the severity of hemorrhage. The diameter of the lateral ventricle was significantly greater in PHH. In 26 of 48 infants at risk, late dilation developed: 14 had VM and 12 had PHH. Thus, late ventricular dilation stabilized or resolved spontaneously in 54%. Only three infants eventually required a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Clinical changes in addition to ventricular size should be used in assessing the need for treatment of ventricular dilation after PV-IVH.
Peculiar cerebrospinal fluid protein patterns in two cases of infantile hydrocephalus.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein abnormalities in 2 hydrocephalic children are described. 1 of the cases presented a degenerative pattern in lumbar CSF protein electrophoresis in spite of high total protein content. This is thought to be due to an excess of tissue proteins as a result of abnormal conditions of circulation and absorption of CSF in hydrocephalus. The other case makes clear the role of inflammation on CSF protein electrophoretic patterns.
Ketamine anesthesia for outpatient procedures in children (author's transl)]	Ketamine anesthesia was used in children to perform 200 outpatient procedures (mainly spinal taps, bone marrow aspirations and biopsies). Atropine was administered in advance and a ketamine dose of 1.8--2.0 mg/kg i.v. was sufficient in most instances. The general anesthesia allows calm and accurate performance of the necessary procedures. Ketamine can be used repeatedly and was preferred by the majority of children for subsequent procedures. The application of Diazepam (2 mg i.v. or 5 mg rectally) reduced unpleasant wake-up dreams in older children. The children were under close observation until consciousness was regained. They left the outpatient clinic attended by their parents approximately one hour after the procedure.
Posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus in the preterm infant.	Between 1969 and 1978 we treated 22 low birth weight infants for delayed onset posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. All developed clinical signs of hydrocephalus after 2 weeks of age. The diagnosis was determined in 12 infants before August 1974, and they were treated by surgical placement of a shunt. In the ten infants born after September 1974, an attempt was first made to control the hydrocephalus with repeated lumbar puncture and diuretics prior to placing a shunt. In seven of the ten the hydrocephalus was successfully arrested by medical therapy alone. Follow-up assessments at 1 to 8 years of age were done on 18 infants. Two of the 12 treated by permanent shunts and three of six treated medically had an IQ score of 85 or greater. These results indicate a poor long-term outlook for the low birth weight infant who develops clinically overt hydrocephalus after intracranial bleeding.
Analysis of the results of routine lumbar puncture after a first febrile convulsion in Hofuf, Al-Hassa, Saudi Arabia.	Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was analysed to determine a lumbar puncture (LP) yield for meningitis in 95 children who presented with their first febrile convulsions between July 1993 and June 1994. There were 52 males and 43 females aged six months to six years with a mean age of 21.9 +/- 13.0 months at presentation. 87(91.6%) had simple febrile convulsions (SFC) while the remaining 8(8.4%) had complex febrile convulsions (CFC). The majority of the subjects presented with a sudden onset of convulsions that were preceded by a day or two history of fever, coryza, cough and respiratory distress while others had their convulsions preceded by fever and passage of bloody stools. The LP yield for meningitis in this series was 6.3%. The CSF analysis revealed six cases of meningitis comprising an eight month old infant with Haemophilus influenzae type B (HIB) meningitis, two partially treated pyogenic meningitis and three aseptic meningitis. All of them had presented with febrile convulsions without signs of meningeal irritation. Excluding aseptic meningitis from this series, a 3.1% LP yield for pyogenic meningitis is significant enough to recommend continued performance of LP in children with first febrile convulsions, especially if under the age of eighteen months.
Value of cerebrospinal fluid examination in the diagnosis of meningitis in the newborn.	Between 1 October 1988 and 30 September 1991 the results of all 896 cerebrospinal fluid examinations from 736 neonates were correlated with clinical diagnosis, treatment, and outcome. The prevalence of fungal or bacterial meningitis in babies requiring lumbar puncture was only 0.95%. Gram staining had a sensitivity of 68% and a positive predictive value of only 46% for the diagnosis of meningitis. Primary cultures directly onto agar plates had a sensitivity of 81% and positive predictive value of 46%. Broth enrichment cultures did not improve sensitivity and were frequently found to be false positive. Empirical treatment should not be altered unless more than a few organisms are seen on Gram staining. Primary cultures are adequate for the diagnosis of fungal and bacterial meningitis. Enrichment cultures should be performed only when the Gram stain and/or cell count suggests meningitis is likely. Clinicians should be aware that diagnostic tests performed in populations with a low prevalence of disease are likely to generate many false positive results and have a low positive predictive value.
Met-enkephalin and substance P. Comparison of CSF levels in patients with chronic pain based on a sampling procedure]	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the Met-enkephalin and the SP-like immunoreactivity levels in the CSF of 16 patients suffering from chronic sciatalgia and to compare them with those of 8 control subjects. Eight of the patients had a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt which made it possible to collect samples of CSF painlessly. For the others patients and controls, CSF samples were collected by lumbar puncture. The results showed that there was no difference in the Met-enkephalin and SP levels whatever the method of sample collection. On the other hand, SP-like immunoreactivity was lower in patients suffering from chronic pain.
Cerebrospinal fluid pulse pressure waveform analysis in hydrocephalic children.	Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid pulse pressure was reported to be useful in the assessment of the cerebrospinal pressure-volume compensation. The method for the estimation of high-frequency centroid (HFC) was modified and used to verify the correlation between HFC and other compensatory parameters investigated by means of the lumbar infusion test in 94 hydrocephalic children. The results confirm that in hydrocephalus HFC is positively correlated to cerebrospinal elasticity coefficient, but inversely to mean CSF pressure and pulse wave amplitude. It was also demonstrated that HFC decreased dynamically during the infusion test.
Influence of tapping-time and atmospheric pressure on concentrations of monoamine metabolites in the cerebrospinal fluid: a prospective study in female volunteers.	Lumbar puncture was performed on 12 healthy female volunteers at the L4-5 level. CSF concentrations of 5-HIAA, HVA and HMPG were included in turn as dependent variables in repeated analyses of covariance with age, height, tapping-time, atmospheric pressure and the distance on the spine in the lying position as regressors. Use or non-use of oral contraceptives was included as a nominal variable. Results obtained were confirmed by nonparametric statistics. We found significant relationships between 5-HIAA and HVA, respectively, and height when the concentrations per minute of tapping-time (nM/min) were used as dependent variables. Hypothetically, the tapping-time mirrors the transport of concentrated CSF from the cranial to the caudal region when sitting up. We also found significant influences of atmospheric pressure and the use or non-use of oral contraceptives on HMPG. The role of atmospheric pressure is not clear but it might contribute to the transport of HMPG from the periphery to the CSF or affect the outflow of HMPG from the lumbar CSF compartment. The contribution of oral contraceptives might reflect interactions in the cerebral catecholamine metabolism.
Interaction between baricity (glucose concentration) and other factors influencing intrathecal drug spread.	The effects of intrathecal injection of 0.5% bupivacaine in solutions containing various concentrations of glucose have been studied in four groups of 20 patients. When solutions containing 0.8% glucose were injected at the L3-4 interspace the median maximum extent of block was higher, and the range of blocks wider, with the 8% solutions. All patients receiving 0.8% glucose had blocks between the T5 and T10 dermatomes, confirming previous work on the benefits of this concentration of glucose. In the two other groups 0.5% bupivacaine containing 0 or 0.8% glucose was injected at the L2-3 interspace. In both groups of patients a wider range of blocks, with a median maximum extent that was higher, was produced. These results demonstrate how glucose concentration may be used to influence the spread of intrathecal solutions and how other factors can obscure the effect of glucose concentration.
Bacterial meningitis with normal cerebrospinal fluid findings. Report of a case and review of the literature.	Bacterial meningitis presenting with normal initial CSF findings is rare and could be confusing to the physicians. Such an entity was observed in this first case report from Lebanon on an 8-month-old female febrile infant whose initial CSF studies were normal despite the culture yielding Streptococcus pneumoniae. Thus, this case emphasizes the need that physicians should start antimicrobial therapy, pending culture results, whenever bacterial meningitis is clinically suspected, even if initial CSF investigation of cellular, protein, sugar and gram-strain results do not reveal abnormal findings. In addition, repeat lumbar puncture should be considered in all febrile patients having clinical features suggestive of this diagnosis.
Microsurgical discectomy (Oswestry expriences with 42 patients)]	Authors reviewed the results of healing of 41 patients, operated with herniated disc, in whom the herniated disc was removed with the help of microscope. The clinical results are analysed in details and compared with the literary data. The indication of microdiscectomy, its execution and the postoperative tasks are also discussed.
Radiological examination of the intrathecal position of microcatheters in continuous spinal anaesthesia.	There have been few studies of the intrathecal position of spinal catheters in continuous spinal anaesthesia. This prospective study was designed to examine radiologically the intrathecal position of 28-gauge spinal catheters. We studied the entry into the subarachnoid space and the intrathecal position of 68 spinal catheters. In 50%, the catheters passed in a cranial direction, in 34% the catheters remained at the level of the puncture site and in 16% the catheters were directed caudally. The intrathecal position of the catheters did not depend on the level of the lumbar puncture (P = 0.6246), but was dependent on the position of the patient during insertion of the catheter (P = 0.0093), and on the depth of insertion (P = 0.0099). Our study suggests that patients should be in a sitting position during insertion of a subarachnoid microcatheter and that the depth of insertion should not exceed 4 cm.
Penetration of zidovudine into the cerebrospinal fluid of patients infected with HIV.	To investigate penetration of zidovudine (ZDV) into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of HIV-infected patients for whom a lumbar puncture was indicated.
Neurotologic presentation of sagittal sinus thromboses associated with oral contraceptive usage.	Thrombosis of the cerebral venous sinuses has long been a recognized complication of late stage pregnancy and the puerperium; more recently, this complication has been associated with the use of oral contraceptives. Two cases are presented in which the presenting symptoms of sagittal sinus thrombosis were neurotologic in nature. One case presented with a sudden onset unilateral facial paralysis; another case presented with pressure/fullness sensation in one ear accompanied by nausea and vomiting. Clinical presentation and evaluation of these cases is presented, with a discussion of symptom etiology. Recommended non-invasive medical management methods are discussed. Cases in which the thrombosis involves the sigmoid, transverse, and sagittal sinuses should be suspect for etiologic sources beyond the ear even when the presenting symptoms are neurotologic in nature. Management of these cases is different from that of an otogenic sigmoid sinus thrombosis. A complete medical history taken from women of child bearing age should include the use of oral contraceptives, which may be suspect for inducing intracranial venous thromboses.
Role of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of bilateral facial paralysis.	Bilateral facial paralysis (BFP) is a rare clinical finding that may be caused by Guillain-Barré syndrome, a medical emergency. The differential diagnosis of BFP is lengthy but can be narrowed to a limited group of disorders by the patient's history and physical examination. The most important diagnostic tests to obtain initially are the lumbar puncture and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan with gadolinium contrast enhancement. Based on the MRI and lumbar puncture findings, additional tests may be appropriately ordered. The diagnosis of bilateral Bell's palsy is made by exclusion of other disorders. This report presents five cases of BFP (Guillain-Barré syndrome, herpes simplex polyneuritis, meningeal lymphoma, and two cases of bilateral Bell's palsy) in which MRI imaging helped in the diagnosis and subsequent management of the patient. The appropriate sequence of diagnostic studies for patients with BFP is discussed.
Bacterial meningitis in infants and children: a review.	Emergency physicians are often required to evaluate febrile infants and children with no obvious source of infection. Most have uncomplicated viral illnesses. It is imperative, however, to identify the child with potentially life-threatening bacterial meningitis. The clinical presentation of meningitis is variable and depends on many factors. These variables are discussed as well as the indications for lumbar puncture and guidelines for laboratory evaluation. Recommendations for antibiotic selection and dosages are provided. The clinical trials regarding the use of dexamethasone are also reviewed.
Stereoselective disposition of ibuprofen enantiomers in human cerebrospinal fluid.	Since both (R)- and (S)-enantiomers of ibuprofen may act on the central nervous system, we investigated their plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations in 46 patients with nerve-root compression pain requiring a lumbar puncture. Each patient received an oral dose of 800 mg rac-ibuprofen. A single blood and CSF sample was drawn concomitantly from each patient at intervals between 30 min and 8 h after dosing. Both isomers peaked later in the CSF (3 h) than in the plasma (1.5 h). Their CSF concentrations became higher than their concurrent free plasma concentrations after 90 min. The estimated elimination half-lives of (R)- and (S)-ibuprofen were 1.7 h and 2.5 h in plasma and 3.9 h and 7.9 h in CSF, respectively. The AUCCSF/AUCplasma ratios (0, 8 h) were 0.009 and 0.015 for the (R)- and (S)-forms, respectively.
Bacterial meningitis--the importance of cerebro-spinal fluid examination.	The role of lumbar puncture in bacterial meningitis has been debated in recent years, especially in the presence of worsening headache, alteration of conscious level, focal neurological signs, papilloedema or a haemorrhagic rash. However valuable bacteriological and epidemiological information will be lost if lumbar puncture is avoided, despite blood cultures being taken. This loss of information will be highlighted if pre-admission antibiotics are administered (this should now be standard practice).
Primary CNS demyelinating diseases in childhood: multiple sclerosis.	We report on five children (three female and two male, age span 11-16 years) with laboratory-supported definite multiple sclerosis or clinically definite multiple sclerosis, diagnosed on the basis of Poser and Paty criteria. All patients were subjected to serial clinical examinations, magnetic resonance investigations, CSF biochemical and immunological studies, and neurophysiological and neuropsychological assessments. Four of the five examined subjects underwent steroid treatment. Over a period of 3 years relapses have been observed in three of them. The first symptoms and signs of multiple sclerosis may be subtle and misleading; careful assessment of them may be crucial for an early diagnosis of the disease.
New-onset generalized seizures in patients with AIDS presenting to an emergency department.	To determine the etiology of new-onset generalized seizures in patients with AIDS presenting to an ED. Patients without HIV infection with a first-time seizure were used as a comparison group. With these data, the current American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) guidelines on the workup of new-onset seizures were applied to determine whether they could safely be used in patients with AIDS.
Headaches, idiopathic intracranial hypertension, and pseudopapilledema.	A young woman with frontal headaches of several months' evolution and monocular transient "tunnel" obscurations that developed after a generalized seizure is described. She had elevation of the optic discs (pseudopapilledema), greater on the side of her visual symptoms. No intracranial lesions were identified. Cerebrospinal fluid pressure was increased, diagnostic of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). Because both IIH and pseudopapilledema may cause transient visual obscurations (TVO), fortuitous discovery of pseudopapilledema in a patient with TVO does not preclude the necessity of performing a diagnostic lumbar puncture. Establishing the correct diagnosis has obvious therapeutic and prognostic implications.
