Intestinal spirochetosis and colon diverticulosis.	A case of intestinal spirochetosis in a 62-year-old white male is reported. The condition was characterized by chronic flatulence and episodes of intestinal hemorrhage, in addition to the evidence of hypotonic diverticular disease, with a large number of slender organisms in the colon epithelium and cryptae. Spirochetes were demonstrated by Whartin-Starry stain. The serologic tests for syphilis and HIV were positive. Spirochetosis was treated with penicillin G, and the patient remains free of intestinal complaints 20 months later.
Naturally occurring Tyzzer's disease and intestinal spirochetosis in guinea pigs.	Bacillus piliformis infection (Tyzzer's disease) occurred in two young guinea pigs, causing unthriftiness and diarrhea which resulted in death. There was necrosis and inflammation of the ileum, cecum, and colon. Intestinal epithelial cells contained organisms resembling Bacillus piliformis. Spirochetes were found in the cecum and colon, mainly in crypts. Acute diarrhea occurred in another guinea pig which became cachetic and was killed. Histologically, large numbers of spirochetes were present in the wall of both the cecum and colon, and they were associated with severe necrosis and inflammation. Bacillus pilformis was not found in this animal.
Cecal spirochetosis in commercial laying hens.	Cecal spirochetosis in chickens has been associated with enteric disease and reduced egg production in the United States and Europe. This report describes spirochete overgrowth of cecal mucosa in chickens from a flock of 100,000 commercial layers experiencing diarrhea and a 5% drop in egg production. Spirochetes were demonstrated in the ceca by darkfield and light microscopy. Apical surfaces of cecal enterocytes were covered by a dense layer of spirochetes aligned parallel to each other and perpendicular to the mucosal surface. Weakly beta-hemolytic, indole-negative spirochetes were isolated from the ceca on BJ media under anaerobic conditions at 42 C. Chicken cecal spirochetosis may represent an economically significant enteric disease of laying hens which has heretofore been infrequently recognized.
Confirmation of the role of rapidly fermentable carbohydrates in the expression of swine dysentery in pigs after experimental infection.	Two experiments were conducted to test the hypothesis that soluble non-starch polysaccharides (NSP) and resistant starch (RS) cause swine dysentery (SD) in pigs experimentally infected with the spirochete Serpulina hyodysenteriae. In Experiment 1, a source of soluble NSP (guar gum; GG), insoluble NSP (oat chaff; OC), resistant starch (retrograde cornstarch; RS) or a combination of GG and RS (GG + RS) was added to a diet containing cooked white rice (R), soybean meal (SBM) and animal protein (meat and bone meal, bloodmeal, fishmeal). A diet containing only cooked white rice, SBM and the sources of animal protein (AP) was also fed. In Experiment 2, three rice-based diets containing different levels of RS were fed to pigs. In Experiment 1, the pH of digesta in the cecum, proximal colon and distal colon of pigs fed diets R-GG, R-RS and R-GG + RS was lower (P < 0.001), and volatile fatty acid concentration higher (P < 0.001), than in pigs fed diets R-OC and R-AP. Pigs fed diets with RS and GG + RS had greater (P < 0.05) concentrations of ATP in the large intestine than pigs fed other diets. There were no significant differences in any fermentation indices measured in Experiment 2. In Experiment 1, pigs fed diets R-GG, R-RS and R-GG + RS were colonized with S. hyodysenteriae after experimental infection. However, only pigs consuming diets R-GG (4 of 5) and R-GG + RS (5 of 5) showed clinical signs of SD. Spirochetes were isolated from the feces of all pigs fed diets containing RS in Experiment 2. However, and in contrast to Experiment 1, 80-100% of pigs infected with S. hyodysenteriae displayed clinical signs of SD. These data confirm the role of fermentable carbohydrate in the pathogenesis of SD.
