Referred muscle pain/hyperalgesia and central sensitisation.	Referred muscle pain, resulting from algogenic conditions in viscera or other deep somatic structures (another muscle, a joint), is most often accompanied by secondary hyperalgesia and trophic changes (hypotrophy). Referred pain/ hyperalgesia from viscera is partly due to central sensitisation of viscero-somatic convergent neurons (triggered by the massive afferent visceral barrage) but also probably results from a reflex arc activation (the visceral input triggers reflex muscle contraction in turn responsible for sensitisation of muscle nociceptors). Referred pain/hyperalgesia from deep somatic structures is not explained by the mechanism of central sensitisation of convergent neurons in its original form, since there is little,convergence from deep tissues in the dorsal horn neurons. It has been proposed that these connections, not present from the beginning, are opened by nociceptive input from skeletal muscle, and that referral to myotomes outside the lesion results from the spread of central sensitisation to adjacent spinal segments.
Smaller quantal size and faster kinetics of single exocytotic events in chromaffin cells from the APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.	The kinetics of single-amperometric exocytotic events has been measured in chromaffin cells of C57 mice and in an APP/PS1 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). K(+) depolarisation causes a burst of spikes that indicate the quantal release of the single-vesicle content of catecholamine. The kinetic analysis of 278 spikes from 10 control cells and 520 spikes from 18 APP/PS1 cells shows the following features of the latter compared with the former: (i) 45% lower t(1/2); (ii) 60% smaller quantal size; (iii) 50% lower decay time. Spike feet also showed 60% smaller quantal size. Immunofluorescence and thioflavin staining showed no amyloid beta (Aβ) burden in adrenal medulla slices of APP/PS1 mice that however exhibited dense Aβ plaques in the cortex and hippocampus. Furthermore, acetylcholinesterase staining of adrenal medulla indicated no apparent differences in the innervation by splanchnic cholinergic nerve terminals of chromaffin cells from control and APP/PS1 mice. This is the first report identifying subtle differences in the last steps of exocytosis that could be an indication of synaptic dysfunction of the secretory machinery not linked to Aβ burden in AD.
Long-lasting cardiovascular depression induced by acupuncture-like stimulation of the sciatic nerve in unanaesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats.	The influence of a prolonged low frequency electrical stimulation of the somatic afferents on cardiovascular and sympathetic nerve activities was investigated in unanaesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats (WKRs). In SHR, an elevation of blood pressure, heart rate and splanchnic nerve outflow was elicited during a 30-min period of sciatic nerve stimulation. Following the cessation of the stimulation, depressor response and bradycardia slowly developed and lasted up to 12 h. Activation of the group III or A-delta afferent fibers was essential for this post-stimulatory response. The progressive depressor response and a parallelled reduction of the splanchnic nerve activity, reached their maxima at about 1 h after the termination of the sciatic stimulation. The magnitude of the post-stimulatory depressor response was correlated with the prestimulatory control blood pressure level. There were also behavioural changes accompanying the depressor response. The cardiovascular and the behavioural depression were immediately reversed by naloxone (10-15 mg/kg, i.v.). The post-stimulatory depressor response was still present after bilateral sino-aortic denervation, but was absent in animals anaesthetized with chloralose and urethane. Emotional stress produced by air-blowing on the animal resulted in pressor response and tachycardia during the period of the stressful stimulation, but there was no depressor response following the termination of air-blowing. These findings indicate a sympathetic and cardiovascular depression induced by a prolonged stimulation of the somatic group III or A-delta afferent fibers; its long duration and naloxone reversibility suggest the involvement of endorphins in the mechanism of this response. The physiological significance of the effects of the prolonged somatic afferent stimulation and its possible relations with acupuncture are discussed.
The role of the sympathetic nervous system in pressor responses induced by spinal injury.	Spinal cord injury consistently evokes a transient 3- to 4-minute rise is systemic pressure, followed by prolonged hypotension. Because the role of the sympathetic nervous system in these blood pressure changes is not clear, the pressure responses were studied using systematic ablation of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system. In total, 24 cats were subjected to bilateral thoracic sympathectomy, adrenalectomy, splanchnicectomy, combinations of the preceding, sham operation, or no treatment. Either 3 or 24 hours after the ablations, the blood pressure responses were evoked by 400 gm-cm contusions of the thoracic cord. Although neither thoracic sympathectomy nor adrenalectomy alone abolished the hypertensive phase, the combination of the two procedures did. This suggests that both the thoracic sympathetic ganglia and the adrenal glands participate in the pressor response. Thoracic sympathectomy affected primarily the early part, whereas adrenalectomy diminished the later part of the hypertensive response. This correlates with the function of the former being neurally and the latter being humorally mediated. None of the sympathetic lesions consistently affected the hypotensive phase. Spinal contusion injury produces widespread sympathetic activation, mediating the hypertensive changes.
Participation of regional sympathetic outflows in the centrogenic pulmonary pathology.	In anesthetized and vagotomized rats, a mechanical cerebral compression (CC) evoked systemic arterial hypertension (SAH) and pulmonary venous hypertension (PVH) followed by massive pulmonary hemorrhagic edema (PHE). The hemodynamic and pulmonary changes induced by CC were more pronounced in the right heart bypass (RHB) preparation (venous return to reservoir and constant pulmonary inflow). Additional observations in RHB included a marked reduction in reservoir volume (RV) without significant change in pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR). In either natural circulation or RHB, an upper thoracic sympathectomy did not affect the SAH, RV reduction, and PVR change, but reduced the PVH and PHE by approximately one-third. Such effects were not attributed to cardiac denervation, because beta 1-adrenergic blockade (metaprolol) did not alter the CC-induced PHE. Splanchnic denervation greatly diminished the SAH and prevented the RV reduction, PVH, and PHE. The results suggest that the centrogenic PHE is initiated from an intense arteriolar constriction, principally in the splanchnic beds. The latter causes left heart failure leading to volume and pressure loading and blood loss in the lungs. Direct sympathetic impulses to the lungs do not affect the PVR and RV changes and are not essential for the genesis of PHE. However, they may alter the vascular compliance and thereby exacerbate the PVH and PHE when passive accumulation of blood is produced in the lungs.
