Chlorpropham-induced splenotoxicity and its recovery in rats.	To determine the reversibility of hematological and pathological changes in spleen induced by sub-chronic administration of chlorpropham (CIPC), male F344 rats were given CIPC in the diet at 0, 600, 3000 or 15,000 ppm for 13 weeks (administration period) and then were given standard (0 ppm) diet for 10 weeks (recovery period). At 0, 1, 2, 4 or 10 weeks in the recovery period, 5 rats in each groups were examined for hematology and pathology. At the end of CIPC administration, dose-dependent and significant methemoglobinemia, anemia, splenomegaly and pathological lesions indicating hemolytic anemia were observed in all the treated groups. The hematological changes, congestion of red pulp, lymphoid atrophy, increased extramedullary hematopoiesis in spleen and hematopoietic cell hyperplasia in bone marrow were diminished during the 10 weeks recovery period. However, increased hemosiderin deposition and capsular fibrosis in spleen of the treated groups remained at the end of recovery period. The results indicated that hematological changes induced by sub-chronic administration of CIPC were reversible but hemosiderin deposition and fibrosis in spleen were not reversible in the recovery period examined, suggesting the significance of splenic lesion in CIPC-toxicity.
Peliosis of the spleen.	The authors present a case of splenic peliosis in a 32-year-old woman who had been treated with steroids for asthma. The ultrasound, computed tomographic (CT), and angiographic findings of this entity are herein illustrated.
Proliferative lesions of the spleen in male F344 rats fed diets containing P-chloroaniline.	Fifty male F344 rats were given diets containing 500 mg/kg P-chloroaniline. Controls received diets without the chemical. Eighteen of the dosed rats developed proliferative lesions of the spleen. Lesions included parenchymal fibrosis and fatty infiltration, well and poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas, osteosarcomas and hemangiosarcomas. All dosed rats had focal and diffuse fibrosis and papillary hyperplasia of the splenic capsule.
Extremely active murine amyloid enhancing factor.	To generate and characterize a highly active amyloid enhancing factor (AEF).
Gadolinium chloride toxicity in the mouse.	1. Groups of five male and five female CD-1 mice received a single intravenous injection of gadolinium chloride at dosages of 0 (saline control), 0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 mmol/ kg. All mice were necropsied 48 h post dose. 2. Plasma analysis showed increases in concentrations of lactate dehydrogenase (both sexes), aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase (females only) in the 0.2 mmol/kg group. Cholesterol was elevated at all dosages in both sexes whilst globulin was raised in both sexes at 0.1 and 0.2 mmol/kg. 3. Histological lesions were present at all dosages and increased in severity in a dose-related fashion. The most common lesions were: mineral emboli in capillaries, accumulation of mineral in the mononuclear phagocytic system, hepatocellular necrosis, and lymphoid depletion, necrosis and mineralisation in the spleen. 4. Such observations are similar to those in rats given gadolinium chloride and should be assessed when evaluating the toxicological profile of gadolinium containing compounds being developed for nuclear magnetic resonance imaging.
