Surgical presentation of melioidosis in India.	Melioidosis, the disease caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, is common in Southeast Asia. It has also been reported from India, where some investigators feel it is under-diagnosed and under-reported. We report our experience with melioidosis presenting as abscesses at unusual sites.
Etiology, clinical features and outcome of splenic microabscesses in HIV-infected patients with prolonged fever.	A prospective study was conducted to determine the etiology, clinical features, and outcome in a series of 32 consecutively enrolled HIV-infected patients with prolonged fever in whom high resolution (7.5 Mhz) sonography revealed multiple splenic microabscesses. Conventional (3.5 Mhz) sonography showed no splenic abnormalities in any patients. The diagnoses were: tuberculosis (14), visceral leishmaniasis (7), disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection (5), Salmonella spp. bacteremia (2), lymphoma (2), disseminated Rhodococcus equi infection (1), disseminated Candida krusei infection (1) and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (1). Twenty-eight patients were followed up for six months and four were lost to follow-up. In 16 patients with a clinical cure and microbiological eradication, the findings on follow-up high resolution sonography were normal, and in two patients the microabscesses persisted; ten patients died. In conclusion, the findings suggest splenic microabscesses may be a frequent condition in HIV-infected patients with prolonged fever, being an unspecific manifestation of the opportunistic diseases causing fever of unknown origin in this population. They cannot be detected by conventional abdominal sonography, whereas high resolution sonography is a useful technique for their detection and follow-up.
Cat scratch disease with lymphadenitis, vertebral osteomyelitis, and spleen abscesses.	In this report we describe a 30-year old male patient with vertebral osteomyelitis and spleen abscesses with cat scratch disease. The diagnosis was made on the basis of molecular detection of Bartonella henselae either on lymph node biopsies or on bone biopsy, histology of the lymph node, serology using either our in-house microimmunofluorescence assay or a commercial kit (Focus Technologies). Immunofluorescent detection was also performed directly on slide appositions using a monoclonal antibody. Treatment consisted of administration of antibiotics with rapid clinical improvement and a stabilization of skeletal lesions on the magnetic resonance imaging performed three months later. Twenty two other cases of this unusual manifestation associated with cat scratch disease have been reported in the literature and are reviewed here. Our case represents the second case of osteomyelitis associated with cat scratch disease in which B. henselae has been specifically identified as the etiological agent using several direct and indirect methods.
A case of splenic hemorrhage in the course of malignant mesothelioma]	A 56-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of mass lesions at the levels of the right upper and lower lung regions on a chest plain radiograph. Chest computed tomography showed tumors which projected from the pleura of the right upper and lower lung fields. One particular point of interest was the complete separation of the tumors from each other. Malignant mesothelioma was diagnosed by biopsy of the pleura via echogram. Both chemotherapy and radiotherapy were administered because of brain metastasis and direct rib invasion. Under this combined therapy, sudden anemia and hypotension appeared due to splenic hemorrhage, which suggested splenic metastasis of the malignant mesothelioma. Multiple metastases in, for example, the spleen, brain, lung, liver, duodenum, small intestine, kidney, adrenal gland, vertebra, thyroid gland, and lymph nodes were confirmed by autopsy. Distant metastasis is rare for malignant mesothelioma, and we report here a case of splenic metastasis with splenic hemorrhage in malignant mesothelioma.
Gastric metastasis from ovarian carcinoma revealed by a gastro-splenic perforation]	Metastatic disease involving the stomach is unusual. We report the case of a gastric metastasis from ovarian cancer revealed by gastro-splenic perforation. The gastric metastasis was diagnosed 17 years after the diagnosis of primary cancer.
Percutaneous drainage of spontaneous subcapsular haematoma of the spleen complicating chronic pancreatitis.	Subcapsular haematoma of the spleen is a rare complication of chronic pancreatitis. In the literature only a handful of cases have been documented. The exact aetiology and natural history of this complication remains speculative and its management controversial. A case of spontaneous subacute haematoma of the spleen in a patient with chronic relapsing alcohol-related pancreatitis was reported. A percutaneous drainage was performed with good outcome. A review of the literature has demonstrated only one previous similar report.
A case of pancreatic intraductal papillary-mucinous carcinoma with penetration to the stomach and splenic abscess]	We report the case of an 80-year-old man given a diagnosis of pancreatic intraductal papillary-mucinous carcinoma (IPMC) and early gastric cancer. He refused surgery, therefore endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) for gastric cancer and careful observation were performed. Penetration of the IPMC to the stomach was observed 3 months later. Ten months after the initial diagnosis, he was found to have a splenic abscess and was subsequently treated by antibiotics and percutaneous drainage, and a fistula between the IPMC and the splenic abscess was observed. We suppose IPMC penetration to the spleen and bacterial transmission from the stomach through the fistula caused the splenic abscess. While IPMC is recognized as a low-grade malignancy, some cases of invasive carcinoma with fistulation to adjacent organs have been reported. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of IPMC associated with splenic abscess due to pancreatosplenic fistula.
Reversible functional asplenia in systemic lupus erythematosus.	A 44-year-old woman with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus on no steroid or immunosuppressive medication presented in septic shock complicated by renal failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation. The patient was treated with antibiotics. Liver-spleen scintigraphy with Tc-99m albumin colloid initially failed to reveal tracer accumulation in the spleen. Follow-up study after one year revealed normal tracer uptake in the spleen. The transient blockade of reticuloendothelial system by immune complexes is the most likely mechanism. Other possible mechanisms include disturbed vascular supply due to thrombosis secondary to the disseminated intravascular coagulation or vasculitis.
Infected splenic artery aneurysm with associated splenic abscess formation secondary to bacterial endocarditis: case report and review of the literature.	Infected aneurysms are rare and may present with rupture or sepsis. Surgical treatment is often required to prevent catastrophic sequelae. Bacterial endocarditis is one of the classic causes of infected aneurysm. We present a case of a 6.1-cm infected splenic artery aneurysm secondary to endocarditis. Surgical treatment consisted of aortic and mitral valve replacements, splenic artery aneurysm resection, and splenectomy. We reviewed five other reported infected splenic artery aneurysms in which documented ruptured had occurred in three patients. Because the rate of rupture in these patients appears to be quite high, infected splenic artery aneurysms require prompt treatment.
Gastrointestinal problems at high altitude.	Gastrointestinal (GI) problems at high altitude are commonplace. The manifestations differ considerably in short-term visitors, long-term residents and native highlanders. Ethnic food habits and social norms also play a role in causing GI dysfuntion. Symptoms like nausea and vomiting are common manifestations of acute mountain sickness and are seen in 81.4% short-term visitors like mountaineers. Anorexia is almost universal and has a mutifactorial causation including effect of hormones like leptin and cholecystokinin and also due to hypoxia itself. Dyspepsia and flatulence are other common symptoms. Diarrhoea, often related to poor hygiene and sanitation is also frequently seen especially among the short-term visitors. Peptic ulceration and upper gastro-intestinal haemorrhage are reported to be common in native highlanders in the' Peruvian Andes (9.6/10000 population per year) and also from Ladakh in India. A hig h incidence o f gastriccarcinoma is also reported, especially from Bolivia (138.2 cases per 10000 population per year). Megacolon and sigmoid volvulus are common lower GI disorders at high altitude. The latter accounted for 79% of all intestinal obstructions at a Bolivian hospital. Thrombosis of the portosystemic vascultature and splenic hematomas has been reported from India. Malnutrition is multifactorial and mainly due to hypoxia. Fat malabsorption is probably significant only at altitudes > 5000m. Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia was found to be four times more common in babies born at high altitude in Colorado than at sea level. Gall stones disease is common in Peruvian highlands. A high seroprevalence of antibodies to H pylori (95%) has been found in Ladakh but its correlation to the prevalence of upper gastro-intestinal disease has not been proven.
CT of acquired abnormalities of the spleen.	Imaging considerations and features when assessing acquired abnormalities of the spleen with CT are described. Indexes of normal size and the implications of splenomegaly are discussed, as well as the CT appearances and types of neoplasia, cysts, traumatic injuries, infarction, and inflammatory changes.
Detection of active intraabdominal arterial hemorrhage: value of dynamic contrast-enhanced CT.	Contrast-enhanced dynamic CT was used prospectively to diagnose and locate the site of active arterial intraabdominal hemorrhage in 18 patients. Active arterial extravasation was confirmed by angiography in five patients and by immediate surgery in nine. Two patients not undergoing surgery or angiography required multiple blood transfusions to correct rapidly falling hematocrit due to a coagulopathy. One patient died of hypovolemic shock, and autopsy confirmed a large acute retroperitoneal hematoma. Another patient with a splenic laceration and massive hemoperitoneum on CT had no active bleeding at the time of surgery, which was delayed 1 hr from the time of the CT. All patients were clinically thought to be hemodynamically stable and had systolic blood pressures greater than 110 mm Hg at the time of CT. In seven patients, hypotension developed either during (two patients) or immediately after (five patients) CT scanning, necessitating either immediate surgery or angiographic embolization. Contrast-enhanced dynamic CT is valuable in the diagnosis and localization of active arterial intraabdominal hemorrhage. Identification of the anatomic site of this potentially life-threatening hemorrhage is critical in determining whether immediate laparotomy or angiographic embolization is the preferred method of treatment.
Splenoportovenography: safety, success rate and hemodynamic changes, and incidence and natural history of splenic hematoma.	Forty-five non-cirrhotic patients undergoing splenoportovenography (SPV) were studied. SPV was performed successfully in 43 (95.5%) patients. Local pain was encountered in 12 (26.6%) and lasted for a mean (+/- SD) of 7 +/- 3.8 hours. Local tenderness was noted in 17 (37.7%) and lasted for 6.8 +/- 3.7 hours. The mean rise in the pulse rate after the procedure was 6.5 +/- 4.7 beats per minute and the fall in the systolic and diastolic blood pressures was 3.4 +/- 2.5 and 0.8 +/- 1.7 mmHg respectively. Post-SPV splenic hematoma was noted in 3 (6.6%) patients. All were subcapsular, at the site of puncture, and disappeared by the seventh day. There was no difference in the age, change in the pulse rate, and fall in systolic or diastolic blood pressures between those who developed and those who did not develop hematoma. One patient required one unit of blood transfusion. There were no deaths. SPV was noted to be a simple and safe procedure with a high success rate with minimal morbidity and no mortality.
Multiple splenic abscesses following Pseudomonas sepsis.	Splenic abscess is an unusual clinical entity, which in most cases is secondary to metastatic spread of bacteria from a primary site of infection. Before the antibiotic era, Salmonella typhi was a common offending organism but now staphylococci and streptococci are predominant organisms. We report two rare cases of multiple splenic abscesses caused by Pseudomonas infection. One case followed Pseudomonas septicaemia and the other was secondary to Pseudomonas pseudomallei osteomyletis of the femur. Both cases underwent splenectomy and promptly recovered.
CT findings in hepatosplenic and renal candidiasis.	Fourteen patients with the diagnosis of leukemia and one with lymphoma developed systemic candidiasis. Involvement of the liver (15 patients), spleen (nine patients), and kidney (five patients) was diagnosed by clinical, CT, and pathologic findings. The CT findings ranged from low-density lesions (11 livers, nine spleens, and five kidneys) to hepatomegaly or hepatosplenomegaly. All livers and three kidneys had positive biopsy findings for Candida. Two patients with diffuse splenic lesions underwent splenectomy and were proven to have candidiasis. During a 1 year follow-up, two patients developed hepatic calcifications and one developed renal calcifications. In proper clinical setting, CT should be done for simultaneous evaluation of the liver, spleen, and kidneys. These studies, when positive, are useful to guide percutaneous or open biopsy and to follow the results of therapy. However, regardless of the hepatic CT finding, biopsy should be obtained to establish the diagnosis and begin proper treatment.
An unusual case of splenic abscess and sepsis in an immunocompromised host.	Lactobacilli are important members of the vaginal, gastrointestinal, and oral flora in humans. Although these organisms are usually innocuous, increasing numbers of serious infections attributable to these bacilli have recently been reported. The authors report an unusual case of a patient presenting with a splenic abscess and sepsis resulting from lactobacilli and review the literature describing serious infections caused by these organisms.
Pulmonogenic sepsis with a metastatic splenic abscess in bronchial asthma]	The authors observed a patient with bronchial asthma who developed acute pulmonary pyodestruction with generalization of the infection, a splenic abscess and drug allergy against prolonged corticosteroid therapy. Diagnostic potentialities, necessary intensive care measures and long-term effects of these complications were discussed.
Splenic penetration by benign gastric ulcer: preoperative recognition with CT.	Penetration of the spleen by a benign gastric ulcer is rare, but when it occurs there is a high probability of hemorrhage. To our knowledge, there have been no reports of the preoperative diagnosis of this entity. We encountered two cases which, in retrospect, could have been predicted from abdominal computed tomographic (CT) findings. Familiarity with this entity and with its appearance on CT may allow prospective detection and aggressive treatment before life-threatening complications develop.
Pyogenic splenic abscess in intravenous drug addiction.	Among the surgical complications of intravenous drug addiction, pyogenic splenic abscess is considered to be a rare entity. A review of the literature reveals only 24 cases of splenic abscess secondary to this particular etiology. The authors report five patients with intravenous drug addiction who underwent splenectomy for pyogenic splenic abscess within 1 year. Fever and abdominal pain were the only constant physical signs. Three patients had associated infective endocarditis, and the other two patients sustained blunt trauma to the left side of the trunk weeks earlier. Computed tomography (CT) and ultrasound were diagnostic in all five patients preoperatively, and they were complementary when combined. Four of the five patients had Staphylococcus aureus septicemia at the time of splenectomy. Three patients recovered from their operations, and the other two, both with endocarditis, died postoperatively from causes unrelated to splenic abscess and splenectomy. A high index of suspicion is warranted in this susceptible group of patients with vague abdominal signs and persistent sepsis to rule out splenic suppuration. The noninvasive imaging methods, CT scan and ultrasound, facilitate early diagnosis in these patients.
Cardiac and extracardiac abscesses in bacterial endocarditis]	Cardiac abscesses are observed in 20 to 30% of cases of infective endocarditis and in at least 60% of prosthetic valve endocarditis. The aortic valve ring is more frequently affected than the mitral valve ring. A cavity contiguous with a cardiac chamber forming a pseudo-aneurysm or a closed purulent collection, the abscess may extend to the neighbouring cardiac structures or to the ascending aorta. This extension may cause conduction defects, abnormal communications between the cardiac chambers, pericardial disease and, exceptionally, myocardial ischaemia, complications which are clinical signs of abscess formation in patients with infective endocarditis. The presence of a cardiac abscess is a poor prognostic factor in infective endocarditis. The diagnosis must be made at an early stage when surgical treatment is optimal. The most valuable investigation is transoesophageal echocardiography with a sensitivity of over 80% and a specificity of about 95%. This investigation has become practically routine in all patients with endocarditis in order to diagnose abscesses at an early stage, especially in cases of aortic or prosthetic valve endocarditis. Information about the site, size and extension of the abscess may be obtained and existing or potential complications may be envisaged with a view to surgery. Other imaging diagnostic techniques, such as angiography, CT scanning and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging have a number of disadvantages and are not more sensitive than transoesophageal echocardiography. Surgical techniques depend on the site and extension of the abscess. They are sutured or closed with dacron or pericardial patches after having been cleaned and filled with formulated resorcin glue. The valvular prosthesis is inserted either in anatomical position or in a sub or supracoronary dacron tube necessitated by the perivalvular extension of the infectious lesions. These complex procedures may require associated coronary reimplantation or revascularisation when the coronary ostia are affected. The highest operative mortality is observed in prosthetic valve endocarditis with abscess and extra-annular prosthetic implants. The risk of secondary valvular dehiscence, often recurrent, is much higher when there is an abscess at operation. Extracardiac abscesses in cases of infective endocarditis are mainly observed in the cerebral and/or splenic territories. They may become the main problem, especially cerebral abscesses, but they rarely require surgery.
Spontaneous splenic rupture as the initial manifestation of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: immunophenotype and cytogenetics.	Spontaneous splenic rupture is a rare, though life-threatening complication of some hematological malignancies and is even more infrequent as the initial symptom of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We describe the fourth case, to our knowledge, of acute lymphoblastic leukemia presenting as splenic rupture, and for the first time the immunophenotype and cytogenetic pattern observed.
Late presentation of portal vein thrombosis as a complication of appendicitis.	A case of appendicitis which resulted in portal pyaemia, hepatic and splenic abscesses, presumed portal vein thrombosis and subsequent portal hypertension is described. It confirms the merit of ultrasonic imaging in monitoring abscess resolution but questions the ability of the technique to recognise acute suppurative portal endophlebitis.
Splenic abscess associated with colon cancer: a case report.	The present report describes a case of colon cancer which presented with a rare complication of splenic abscess. A 52-year-old Japanese man with diarrhea, fever and chills was admitted to our hospital. He complained of fever, with chills at night, and abdominal pain occurring during the last month. The origin of the fever was investigated, and Escherichia coli grew from a blood culture. Multilocular splenic abscesses and wall thickening of the descending colon were revealed by CT scan, magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound. A cancer of the descending colon was found by barium enema and colonoscopy. A curative resection was performed and the pathological report revealed the splenic abscess to have developed from a direct extension of, and perforation by, the carcinoma of the descending colon.
Splenic abscess secondary to xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis]	We report another case of splenic abscess after nephrectomy, a condition which must be considered in the differential diagnosis of post-operative fever.
Long-term haematological complications of thorotrast.	Six cases representing the spectrum of haematological complications due to systemic administration of Thorotrast are reposted. Two patients suffered from acute leukaemia, one patient had marrow failure and three patients presented with haematological features of hyposplenism; two of these also had solid tumours. The literature is reviewed.
Treatment of sickle cell disease.	The treatment of sickle cell disease requires familiarity with the medical manifestations of the vaso-occlusive and hematologic crises and their complications. This discussion deals with treatment of the sickle cell crises and major clinical manifestations of the disease. At present, treatment is primarily symptomatic despite intensive efforts during the past decade to provide more definitive therapy.
Impaired splenic function and tuftsin deficiency in patients with intestinal failure on long term intravenous nutrition.	Reticuloendothelial system function is impaired in humans receiving lipid regimens.
Peliosis of spleen presenting as splenic rupture with haemoperitoneum--a case report.	Peliosis of spleen is usually associated with peliosis of liver. Oval to round markedly dilated blood filled cystic spaces predominantly in parafollicular area is the characteristic feature of peliosis to differentiate it from congested sinuses. Exposure to viruses chemicals, contraceptive steroids or chronic debilitating disorders including malignancies are the various possible etiological factors. Though peliosis may remain asymptomatic, fatal intraperitoneal haemorrhage may occur due to its rupture. We report a case of peliosis of spleen presenting as splenic rupture with haemoperitoneum.
