Isolated eosinophilic mesenteric vasculitis with extensive thrombosis and splenic infarction in a 13-year-old boy.	There are no generally accepted diagnostic criteria for primary systemic vasculitis, and the application of classification as diagnostic criteria is not feasible and may even be misleading. We report a case of a 13-year-old boy with acute abdomen who was found to have isolated eosinophilic mesenteric vasculitis with extensive thrombosis and splenic infarction. All serological tests were negative, including antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody. The vasculitis had been successfully controlled with surgical intervention, steroid, and cyclophosphamide therapy. This may be an atypical presentation of Churg-Strauss syndrome.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae, splenic infarct, and transient antiphospholipid antibodies: a new association?	We report 2 children with Mycoplasma pneumoniae pulmonary infection with splenic infarcts and transient antiphospholipid antibodies. This association has not been reported previously.
Splenic infarcts in Goodpasture's syndrome: its significance for diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment (author's transl)]	Necrotising splenic arteritis with numerous extensive anaemic splenic infarcts was found in four cases of Goodpasture's syndrome with the necrotising variant of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. The disease was rapidly fatal. Early scanning of splenic infarcts for diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic purposes of the fulminating form of Goodpasture's syndrome is recommended.
Peptostreptococcus anaerobius infective endocarditis complicated by spleen infarction.	Peptostreptococcus sp., which are normal flora of human mucocutaneous surfaces, can be recovered in mixed infections involving the skin, soft tissue, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and genitourinary tract. Peptostreptococci are rarely reported to be the cause of infective endocarditis. Because of their fastidiousness, peptostreptococci are difficult to isolate and are often overlooked. The authors report a case of Peptostreptococcus infective endocarditis of a native mitral valve complicated by splenic infarction. The authors also review the literature to identify features of infective endocarditis caused by Peptostreptococcus anaerobius.
A case of infectious mononucleosis with splenic infarction]	A 22-year-old man complaining of persisting high fever and right hypochondralgia was admitted to our hospital for infectious mononucleosis with splenic infarction detected by computed tomography. The splenic infarction deteriorated with a marked elevation of inflammatory parameters. This necessitated the commencement of methylprednisolone pulse therapy, resulting in prompt amelioration of inflammation and a reduction in cytokine levels. Including our case, only 9 cases of mononucleosis with splenic infarction have been reported to date; however, splenic infarction should be considered because it is a significant complication of infectious mononucleosis. 
