Bcl-6 protein expression by follicle center lymphomas. A marker for differentiating follicle center lymphomas from other low-grade lymphoproliferative disorders.	Low-grade lymphoproliferative disorders are a heterogeneous group of lymphoid neoplasms with wide variation in histologic features, immunologic phenotype, and molecular abnormalities. Subclassification of these disorders with small lymphocytic proliferation may be difficult on the basis of morphologic findings alone. The bcl-6 gene, originally cloned from a tumor with 3q27 translocation, is commonly expressed in large cell lymphomas. In humans, bcl-6 encodes for a Krüppel-type zinc finger protein and is believed to be important in germinal center formation. Bcl-6 protein is expressed mainly by follicle center cells and a few interfollicular T lymphocytes. We analyzed Bcl-6 expression with immunologic methods in common low-grade lymphoproliferative disorders as an aid to differentiation of tumors with follicle center origin. We analyzed Bcl-6 staining of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue from 72 indolent lymphomas including 31 grade I and II follicle center lymphomas (FCL). 13 small lymphocytic lymphomas (SLL), 12 mantle cell lymphomas (MCL), and 16 marginal zone lymphomas (MZL) including lymphomas of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue and spleen. All of 31 FCL were positive for Bcl-6 expression. One of 13 SLL and 1 of 12 MCL were positive, whereas none of 16 MZL were positive. Bcl-6 was also detected in 5 of 5 FCL and 1 of 3 MZL but in no SLL or MCL by Western blot analysis in 14 cases with lymphoid disorders. Our study demonstrates that Bcl-6 expression is common in low-grade FCL but is rare in other indolent B-cell lymphoid disorders, and may be a useful adjunct in classification of indolent lymphomas.
Targeting primary human Ph(+) B-cell precursor leukemia-engrafted SCID mice using radiolabeled anti-CD19 monoclonal antibodies.	The Philadelphia chromosome translocation (Ph(+)) confers a poor prognosis in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). CD19 is highly expressed (CD19(+)) on ALL cells and is an attractive target for antibody-based therapies. CLB-CD19 is an IgG1kappa murine monoclonal antibody (mAb) directed against an epitope on the CD19 antigen.
Metastasizing splenic littoral cell hemangioendothelioma.	Littoral cell angioma is a unique splenic tumor that is generally considered to be benign. We present a case of a low-grade littoral cell splenic tumor that metastasized to the liver and retroperitoneum 4 years after splenectomy. Although the splenic lesion showed the typical morphology of a littoral cell angioma, it also contained areas with unusual solid nests of cytologically bland, plump cells with clear cytoplasm. The liver was diffusely infiltrated exclusively by cells with similar clear cell features. Both splenic and liver lesions demonstrated identical immunophenotypes, typical of littoral cell angioma, expressing CD31, CD68, CD21, and CD163, although negative for CD8 and CD34. A single prior description of a littoral cell hemangioendothelioma showed nuclear atypia and necrosis, and this is the first case report of a splenic littoral cell hemangioendothelioma with a completely bland histologic appearance. This case suggests that the presence of solid areas of clear cells in a littoral cell angioma may be a marker of low-grade malignant potential in these tumors.
Lupus anticoagulant associated with primary malignant lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma of the spleen: a report of four patients.	Primary lymphoma of the spleen is characterized by predominant splenomegaly. Lymphoplasmacytic malignant lymphoma of the spleen, of low malignancy in the Kiel classification, low and intermediate grade in the National Cancer Institute Working Formulation (NCIWF), is rare. It is often associated with a monoclonal immunoglobulin M (IgM). Four patients presenting with primary splenic lymphoma of plasmacytic type associated with a high level of monoclonal IgM and a lupus anticoagulant (LA) are described. This association has not previously been reported. In contrast with the usual heterogeneity of LA, this LA is relatively homogeneous with an important prolongation of the prothrombin time (greater than 18 sec for a control of 12), more prolonged partial thromboplastin time (PTT) of the mixture patient + control plasma than PTT of the patient plasma. Despite the important coagulation abnormalities, none of these four patients has presented any hemorrhagic or thrombotic complications, even during major surgery such as splenectomy. The lupus-like anticoagulant effect ran parallel with the monoclonal IgM. Survival, after splenectomy and chemotherapy, appears to be favourable: three patients are alive with survivals of greater than or equal to 7 years. The follow-up is as yet too short for the last patient.
Splenic lymphangioma: clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical study of 18 cases and review of literature]	To study the clinicopathologic features and differential diagnosis of splenic lymphangioma.
Littoral cell angiosarcoma in a dog.	This report describes the microscopical and immunohistochemical characteristics of littoral cell angiosarcoma in a 12-year-old, neutered female, beagle dog. The dog succumbed to metastatic disease 3 months after diagnosis of a mid-splenic mass. The tumour was characterized by two histological patterns: anastomosing microvascular channels and microvascular papillary fronds. The neoplastic cells expressed both endothelial and histiocytic markers and were erythrophagocytic. Immunohistochemical findings consistent with malignancy were CD34 expression and high Ki67 nuclear immunoreactivity. 
A marginal zone pattern may be found in different varieties of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: the morphology and immunohistology of splenic involvement by B-cell lymphomas simulating splenic marginal zone lymphoma.	Splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL) is characterized by a micronodular infiltrate of the splenic white pulp, centred on pre-existing follicles, with a peripheral rim of 'marginal' zone B-cells, always accompanied by a variable degree of red pulp infiltration. These histological features can be closely mimicked by a variety of other small B-cell lymphomas when they involve the spleen, which makes recognition of SMZL difficult. We therefore have compared the histopathological and immunohistochemical features of other non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) types with those of SMZL.
