Commercially available pedometers: considerations for accurate step counting.	Many commercially available pedometers undercount, especially at slower speeds. We examined the effects of age, obesity, and self-selected walking speed on pedometer accuracy. We also compared the accuracy of piezoelectric and spring-levered pedometers at slow walking speeds.
Rotational acceleration measurements--evaluating helmet protection.	Current helmet testing standards do not address the rotational components of an impact to the head. We describe a new testing paradigm used to measure the rotational acceleration of a headform and a protective helmet following an impact to the head in the horizontal plane. This impact simulation allows for the testing of currently available head protection devices in conditions thought to be important for the generation of cerebral concussion. The degree to which a particular helmet dampens rotational acceleration, and thus protects against concussion, can be assessed.
Recent crosse designs increase ball velocity: implications for injury in women's lacrosse.	The aim of this preliminary investigation was to describe the kinematics of ball release from 24 different lacrosse stick models during the performance of an overhand pass. Multiple trials (N=120) of an overhand lacrosse pass, performed by an elite female lacrosse athlete, were captured in the sagittal plane using two-dimensional videography and analysed using motion analysis software. On average, there was a tendency for balls to release earlier from wood crosses (180.8+/-16.0 degrees ) than from synthetic crosses (183.6+/-6.0 degrees ) (p>0.15) and earlier from non-planar linear (179.7+/-6.7 degrees ) and non-planar curvilinear (182.5+/-9.5 degrees ) crosse heads than from traditional, planar-headed sticks (185.6+/-11.7 degrees ). Peak angular velocities of the stick shaft were lower for the wood as compared to the synthetic crosses (p<0.001) with mean values of 15.4+/-0.6rads(-1) and 16.6+/-0.7rads(-1), respectively. Similarly, the resultant velocity of the ball at release was significantly lower (p<0.001) for the wood crosses (13.9+/-0.8ms(-1)) as compared to the synthetic crosses (14.8+/-0.6ms(-1)). These results indicate that changes in the material composition and design of lacrosse sticks are changing the timing and rate at which balls release from the crosse pocket. Strict rule enforcement, good coaching, the mandatory use of protective equipment and continuous monitoring of changes in stick technology will be required if the frequency and severity of ocular, head and facial injuries are to be controlled.
The importance of proper shoe gear and safety stirrups in the prevention of equestrian foot injuries.	The aim of this study was to compile specific foot injuries occurring in pediatric patients that result from equestrian sports and to highlight the importance of wearing adequate riding boots to protect the feet. During a 12-year period, 258 children were admitted to Children's Hospital of Geneva for injuries resulting from horseback riding. Amongst these children, 8 sustained foot lesions that required hospital admission. Four children had compression-type fractures of the cuboid (nutcracker fracture of the cuboid) associated with other complex midfoot fractures, 2 had Lisfranc fracture dislocations, 1 had a fracture of the talus with associated intern malleolar fracture, and the last had a fracture of the 5 metatarsals with lateral displacement. All the noted lesions complied with the same traumatic mechanisms. The horse fell on the patient, and the child's foot, entrapped in the stirrup, was caught in between the animal and the ground. The forefoot was bent by indirect violence in abduction by the stirrup, which acted as a fulcrum. Serious foot injuries may occur in children during equestrian activities. These lesions may be very disabling. Therefore, it is important for doctors, instructors, and parents to promote the use of appropriate safety equipment, including strengthened riding boots and safety stirrups.
Football players' contrast sensitivity comparison when wearing amber sport-tinted or clear contact lenses.	Many experiments are conducted each year in the sporting world to try and improve the existing technology and equipment in an effort to positively influence athletic outcomes. These studies, at times, are concerned about vision and how athletes can improve their visual inputs to respond most advantageously. Sports vision aids are becoming a more integral part of an athlete's equipment. Recently, sport-tinted contact lenses have become available to athletes of various sports. The purpose of this study was to compare football players' contrast sensitivity when wearing specially designed sport-tinted contact lenses to that when wearing clear contact lenses or no contact lenses in the case of an emmetropic athlete.
Accuracy of spring-levered and piezo-electric pedometers in primary school Japanese children.	Pedometers are used in many studies because physical activities can be simply assessed using them. In addition to the spring-levered type, piezo-electric pedometers have recently been used. However, their accuracy in children has not been investigated in previous studies. In this study, we investigated the accuracy of spring-levered pedometer and piezo-electric pedometer step counts in comparison with hand-tallied step counts with children during self-paced walking. First to 6th-grade primary school children (394 subjects; 201 boys and 193 girls) walked with pedometers on an outdoor 50-m course, and the measured values were compared with actual steps at 3 speeds: normal, slow, and fast paces. The counts obtained by the spring-levered pedometer were significantly lower than the actual steps in most grades at all walking paces. In the normal- and fast-pace walking, the counts by spring-levered pedometer were significantly lower than the actual steps in all grades excluding the 5th grade. Moreover, the spring-levered pedometer underestimated by 25% or more in all grades at slow pace. In contrast, the percent error of the counts by the piezo-electric pedometers at normal pace were mostly within +/-3%, confirming their high accuracy. Based on these findings, spring-levered pedometers are not appropriate for children, whereas piezo-electric pedometers are useful for investigation of the physical activity of children.
Durability of running shoes with ethylene vinyl acetate or polyurethane midsoles.	Ethylene vinyl acetate and polyurethane are widely used materials for shoe midsoles. The present study investigated the durability of running shoes made from ethylene vinyl acetate and one type of polyurethane (polyurethane-1), which have similar hardness and density, and another type of polyurethane (polyurethane-2), which has high hardness/density. All shoes differed from one another only in terms of the midsole material used. Eight male runners participated in the present study and used the shoes to run 500 km (10 × 50 km). The cushioning and energy return characteristics of each shoe were measured using an impact tester before and after each 50-km run. The results showed that as the running distance increased, the peak force of midsole materials changed with different patterns. Ethylene vinyl acetate and polyurethane-1 showed greater cushioning than polyurethane-2 over 500 km (ethylene vinyl acetate, 918.2-968.0 N; polyurethane-1, 909.6-972.9 N; polyurethane-2, 983.0-1105.6 N). Polyurethane-1 showed greater cushioning from 200 km to 300 km compared with 0 km (0 km, 972.9 ± 66.3 N; 200 km, 909.6 ± 61.2 N; 250 km, 921.9 ± 51.2 N; 300 km, 924.6 ± 51.9 N). The cushioning of ethylene vinyl acetate shoes was diminished after 500 km compared with that at 0 km (968.0 ± 25.9 N vs. 921.1 ± 20.1 N). Ethylene vinyl acetate resulted in greater energy returns than polyurethane. Both foam category and hardness/density affected the critical biomechanical properties of running shoes.
