Histopathology of common tendinopathies. Update and implications for clinical management.	Tendon disorders are a major problem for participants in competitive and recreational sports. To try to determine whether the histopathology underlying these conditions explains why they often prove recalcitrant to treatment, we reviewed studies of the histopathology of sports-related, symptomatic Achilles, patellar, extensor carpi radialis brevis and rotator cuff tendons. The literature indicates that healthy tendons appear glistening white to the naked eye and microscopy reveals a hierarchical arrangement of tightly packed, parallel bundles of collagen fibres that have a characteristic reflectivity under polarised light. Stainable ground substance (extracellular matrix) is absent and vasculature is inconspicuous. Tenocytes are generally inconspicuous and fibroblasts and myofibroblasts absent. In stark contrast, symptomatic tendons in athletes appear grey and amorphous to the naked eye and microscopy reveals discontinuous and disorganised collagen fibres that lack reflectivity under polarised light. This is associated with an increase in the amount of mucoid ground substance, which is confirmed with Alcian blue stain. At sites of maximal mucoid change, tenocytes, when present, are plump and chondroid in appearance (exaggerated fibrocartilaginous metaplasia). These changes are accompanied by the increasingly conspicuous presence of cells within the tendon tissue, most of which have a fibroblastic or myofibroblastic appearance (smooth muscle actin is demonstrated using an avidin biotin technique). Maximal cellular proliferation is accompanied by prominent capillary proliferation and a tendency for discontinuity of collagen fibres in this area. Often, there is an abrupt discontinuity of both vascular and myofibroblastic proliferation immediately adjacent to the area of greatest abnormality. The most significant feature is the absence of inflammatory cells. These observations confirm that the histopathological findings in athletes with overuse tendinopathies are consistent with those in tendinosis--a degenerative condition of unknown aetiology. This may have implications for the prognosis and timing of a return to sport after experiencing tendon symptoms. As the common overuse tendon conditions are rarely, if ever, caused by 'tendinitis', we suggest the term 'tendinopathy' be used to describe the common overuse tendon conditions. We conclude that effective treatment of athletes with tendinopathies must target the most common underlying histopathology, tendinosis, a noninflammatory condition.
Diagnosis and management of myocarditis in athletes.	Myocarditis is a pathologic entity that has serious potential consequences for competitive athletes. Myocarditis is an inflammation of the myocardium accompanied by myocellular necrosis. Cardiotropic viruses, in particular the Coxsackie B virus, have been implicated as the most common cause of acute myocarditis in the United States. A thorough history, physical examination, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, elevated cardiac enzymes, and an elevated sedimentation rate help make the diagnosis. Athletes recovering from acute myocarditis should abstain from moderate to vigorous activity for 6 months, have normal cardiac function, and have no demonstrable arrhythmia before returning to sports.
The long QT syndrome: considerations in the athletic population.	In athletes, ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death are rare and unpredictable events. Often, an underlying heart disease is present, but pre-existing clinical signs or symptoms may not be recognized. Primary electrical disorders (such as the long QT syndrome) are rarely present in athletes but, so far, are a considerable reason for disqualification from sport activity. These disorders are mostly inherited, and patients should be referred to a cardiologist with special experience. Through the efforts of molecular genetics and cellular electrophysiology, an increasing understanding of the underlying mechanisms of arrhythmogenesis is being gathered. During the past decade, evidence has grown that establishing accurate genetic diagnoses and dissection of molecular disease mechanisms can have an impact on prognosis, and help direct therapy in a range of cardiovascular diseases. Further achievements in the areas of clinical and molecular research, improvement of medical education, and expansion of genotyping facilities will facilitate the correct and immediate identification of affected patients.
Hypertension in the athlete.	Athletes with hypertension are frequently encountered in clinical settings and during preparticipation examinations. This common condition merits special attention in athletes, as they have particular physiologic and sport-specific demands. Awareness of the pressor response to both isometric and isotonic exercise is valuable in managing hypertensive athletes. Recommendations regarding physical activity in hypertensive patients and clearance for sports participation among competitive athletes are reviewed. Nonpharmacologic measures and the use of customary antihypertensives in athletes is essential. However, knowledge of side-effect profiles and possible negative effects on exercise tolerance guide appropriate medication choices.
Upper respiratory tract infections: who plays, who sits?	In athletes with upper respiratory infections (URIs), the question of who plays and who sits can be difficult to answer. Acute exercise suppresses several aspects of the immune system. None of these immunologic changes, however, consistently correlate with the incidence of URIs in athletes. The risk of infection with exercise seems to follow a J-curve relationship, with regular, moderate exercisers having a lower risk than sedentary people, and regular, strenuous exercisers having the highest risk of all. The decision to allow an athlete to play or not can be guided by the "neck check" rules, and can also take into account nonmedical factors. The athlete with infectious mononucleosis warrants more careful attention, as there are strict guidelines for return-to-play in these individuals, to avoid the possibility of splenic rupture.
Blunt abdominal trauma in sports.	Abdominal injuries are rare in sports, but when they do occur it is important that the physician recognize the warning signs of potentially life-threatening injury to the liver, spleen, or hollow abdominal viscera. Though the sports medicine physician may not always provide definitive treatment of many of these conditions, he or she should be familiar with the preferred diagnostic modalities and latest treatment options. This information is not only essential to appropriately participate in treatment decisions, but is also important in order to make return-to-play determinations.
Osteitis pubis.	Osteitis pubis is a painful condition, usually caused by abnormal muscle forces acting on the symphysis pubis. The symptoms of osteitis pubis mimic many other injuries that affect the athlete's groin. To correctly diagnose this condition, the clinician must maintain a high index of suspicion. Reports suggest this condition is more common in men than women. Confirmatory radiographs, bone scans, and magnetic resonance imaging aid the diagnosis. Once diagnosed, the prognosis for full recovery is good, although lengthy. Typical treatments include physical therapy, involving strengthening the abdominal and hip muscles, and improving range of motion of the hip, particularly the muscles of internal rotation. Corticosteroid injections, wedge resection of the symphysis, curettage, and arthrodesis have all been used with variable success.
Pelvic and hip apophyseal avulsion injuries in young athletes.	Hip apophyseal injuries in young athletes are a fairly rare problem, and often go unrecognized by health professionals. These injuries can be extremely painful, and may take months to heal. Timely, accurate diagnosis is imperative so proper treatment can be initiated. In some cases, surgery is required.
Imaging of the spine in sports medicine.	Much controversy exists surrounding the utility of plain film, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and bone scintigraphy in the evaluation of sports-related spine injuries. The articles reviewed here offer several different perspectives. Cervical spine radiography, return-to-play criteria following cervical trauma, lumbar pain and pars injuries, utility of MRI in acute sports injuries, and sports-specific injuries are reviewed. The relationship between bone mineral density and sports activity is also reviewed.
On-the-field evaluation of an athlete with a head or neck injury.	Head and cervical spine sports-related injuries are intimately associated. The on-field evaluation and management of the athlete with these injuries is of paramount importance to stabilize the athlete and prevent further injury. Clinicians need to be aware of the differential diagnoses and consider each possibility based on the mechanism of injury. Although recognition of head and cervical spine injuries has resulted in significant reductions of catastrophic neurological injuries, especially in the cervical spine, further advances to decrease the incidence and long-term sequelae of head and neck injuries are needed. The first step is education of the athlete and the individuals involved in the care of that athlete.
Etiology, treatment, and prevention of athletic "stingers".	Stingers or burners are common in athletes, especially football players. They represent a traction, compression, or direct blow to the upper roots of the brachial plexus. They are usually transient and resolve quickly. Cervical canal stenosis with concurrent degenerative disc disease may predispose an athlete to this injury. Return-to-play criteria are largely based on the number of previous episodes and the duration of symptoms. These criteria also require appropriate consideration of any underlying pathological conditions. Appropriate counseling, including modification of tackling and addition of protective gear, in conjunction with complete rehabilitation, may be effective in preventing this condition or decreasing the rate of recurrence. The athlete, family, and coaches need to understand that recurrence remains unpredictable.
Acute sports-related spinal cord injury: contemporary management principles.	Improvements in helmet and equipment design have led to significant decreases in overall injury incidence, but no available helmet can prevent catastrophic injury to the neck and cervical spine. The most effective strategy for preventing this type of injury appears to be careful instruction, training, and regulations designed to eliminate head-first contact. The incidence of football-related quadriplegia has decreased from a peak of 13 cases per one million players between 1976 and 1980 to 3 per million from 1991 to 1993, mostly as a result of systematic research and an organized effort to eliminate high-risk behavior. An episode of transient quadriparesis does not appear to be a risk factor for catastrophic spinal cord injury. Torg reported that 0 of 117 quadriplegics in the National Football Head and Neck Injuries Registry recalled a prior episode of transient quadriparesis, and 0 of the 45 patients originally studied in his transient quadriparesis cohort have subsequently suffered quadriplegia. The significance of developmental spinal stenosis is unclear. Plain radiographic identification of a narrow spinal canal in a player sustaining cervical cord neurapraxia warrants further evaluation by MRI to rule out functional stenosis. The presence of actual cord deformation or compression on MRI should preclude participation in high-risk contact or collision sports.
Cervical sprains, disc herniations, minor fractures, and other cervical injuries in the athlete.	In today's health-conscious society, more people are participating in athletic endeavors. As participation increases, so does the incidence of cervical injuries. Fortunately, most of the cervical injuries seen in sports are minor and can be treated successfully with minimal morbidity. It is important, however, to accurately assess the patient sustaining a cervical injury to rule out the presence of a more severe cervical injury. When practitioners understand the pathophysiology and treatment of common injuries, including sprains, strains, contusions, disc herniations, and simple fractures, most athletes can be returned to full function.
Rehabilitation of head and neck injuries in the athlete.	This article has given a general overview of a specific and reproducible physical therapy evaluation that can be used to assess progress toward and achievement of goals of treatment. General descriptions of types of presentations that can be seen clinically were also delineated. General treatment goals were discussed and some specific exercises were introduced to help in developing a comprehensive program for the athlete. The main emphasis of the treatment of the athlete requires application of clinical reasoning to the evaluation, treatment, and reassessment process in order to achieve the athlete's goal of full return to sport.
Acute and long-term management of sports-related closed head injuries.	Aggressive participation in athletics is rewarded in many ways in our society. As long as there is such strong impetus for participation in athletics, the risks of head injuries for participants will remain. Important strides made in understanding of the pathophysiology of head injuries may lead to improved treatment strategies in the future. In light of the current lack of effective therapies, however, the best options remain injury prevention, early and appropriate recognition, and limitation of subsequent, further injury. Frequently the medical staff is encouraged to allow the athlete to return to play based on the desires of the coach, team, fans, parents, and even the athlete himself. A thorough understanding of the potentially serious risks of repetitive injury, however, mandates that only a proper conservative period of observation and evaluation will best serve the competitor.
Short-term and long-term outcome of athletic closed head injuries.	The continued development of the sport environment as a laboratory for clinical investigation of mild head injury has greatly advanced the use of neuropsychological assessment in evaluating brain-injured athletes, and tracking their symptoms and recovery in an objective manner. The use of neurocognitive baseline measures has become critical in determining whether a brain-injured athlete has recovered function sufficiently to return to play. The rapid growth of computerized and web-based neurocognitive assessment measures provides an efficient, valid technology to put such testing within the reach of most institutions and organizations that field sport teams. Moreover, the knowledge of the recovery curve following mild head injury in the sport environment can be generalized to the management of MTBI in general clinical environments where baseline measures are unlikely. What we know today is that sideline assessments of severity are not predictive of which athletes will show the most typical 5- to 10-day recovery period and which will report persistent PCS complaints and exhibit impaired neurocognitive performance for an extended time. The research on mechanisms of brain injury in MTBI suggests that unpredictable, diffuse white-matter damage may control much of the variability in functional impairments and recovery duration.
Recurrent athletic head injury: risks and when to retire.	This article focuses on the issues related to recurrent athletic head injuries; specifically, when cumulative exponential injury or the second impact syndrome may be anticipated. Case histories and research studies are used to illustrate the salient points. A signs-and-symptoms checklist for use in concussion evaluation and management is included. Finally, the topic of when to retire after repeated athletic head injuries is discussed and illustrated with a case study.
Epilepsy and athletics.	It may seem logical to place restrictions on athletes with epilepsy, but there are no studies to suggest that even contact sports exacerbate seizures, and there is ample evidence that exercise reduces seizure frequency and improves well-being. Thus, sports participation should generally be encouraged for epilepsy patients. The risk-benefit analysis for an individual patient is highly dependent on the athletic activity considered; type of seizure, the likelihood that a seizure will occur during the activity, and comorbid conditions. Water sports (scuba diving, swimming, boating), sports performed at heights (piloting, sky diving, climbing, horseback riding), and motor sports require specific considerations.
Rotator cuff repair. A biomechanical comparison of three techniques.	The most common complication of rotator cuff repair is structural failure at the repair site. A single-layer repair does not adequately reproduce the anatomic insertion and may not optimize fixation strength.
Re-examination of the possible role of Golgi tendon organ and muscle spindle reflexes in proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation muscle stretching.	Literature concerning the theoretical role of spinal reflex circuits and their sensorimotor signals in proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) muscle stretching techniques was examined. Reviewed data do not support the assertion commonly made in PNF literature that contraction of a stretched muscle prior to further stretch, or contraction of opposing muscles during muscle stretch, produces relaxation of the stretched muscle. Further, following contraction of a stretched muscle, inhibition of the stretch reflex response lasts only 1 s. Studies examined suggested that decreases in the response amplitude of the Hoffmann and muscle stretch reflexes following a contraction of a stretched muscle are not due to the activation of Golgi tendon organs, as commonly purported, but instead may be due to presynaptic inhibition of the muscle spindle sensory signal. The current view on the complex manner by which the spinal cord processes proprioceptive signals was discussed. The ability of acute PNF stretching procedures to often produce a joint range of motion greater than that observed with static stretching must be explained by mechanisms other than the spinal processing of proprioceptive information. Studies reviewed indicate that changes in the ability to tolerate stretch and/or the viscoelastic properties of the stretched muscle, induced by PNF procedures, are possible mechanisms.
Spinal injuries in rugby union, 1970-2003: lessons and responsibilities.	There was an increase in the frequency of rugby union spinal injuries worldwide during the 1970s and early 1980s. The United Kingdom and Australia have since had some success in reducing this increase in spinal injuries. These changes were the result of actions by rugby union authorities in response to recommendations by medical advisors; legal action by injured players has also played a part. The frequency of spinal injuries has not decreased in New Zealand (up to 2000) and South Africa (up to 1997). Rugby union authorities' responsibilities should include establishing and maintaining national and international spinal injury registers to forge closer working relationships with medical researchers. Such registers would provide up-to-date information for enhancing and developing preventive measures. There has been no specific publicly available record of the incidence of rugby union spinal injuries in Australia since 1996, so it is uncertain whether the safety measures introduced so far have had a lasting impact.
Hypertension and exercise. Sports methods for the hypertensive patient]	Physical exercise is of paramount therapeutic importance in nonpharmacological interventions of arterial hypertension. The extent and the effects of exercise on blood pressure lowering are analyzed according to the actual literature. Suitable and nonsuitable activities are considered. Dynamic isotonic endurance training is more effective than static isometric exercise. A rather low or moderate extent of endurance training lowers the systolic and diastolic blood pressure by approximately 5-11 mmHg and 3-8 mmHg, respectively. This effect of exercise can be achieved besides the favorable effects on other cardiovascular risk factors. Intensity of exercise should be monitored by the heart rate. The mean intensity should not exceed 70% of the maximal heart rate. An initial ergometry might be suitable for the planning of training recommendations.
Injections and return to play.	The use of analgesic and anti-inflammatory injections in athletics has a long and sometimes controversial history. They have been and will continue to be utilized to decrease inflammation and pain, improve healing time, and ultimately decrease the amount of time missed from sports competition. Several authors have evaluated both the positive and negative aspects of various injectable medicines. Many questions still remain with regard to safety, tolerability, risks, complications, and side effects of these injectable medicines. This paper reviews some of the current trends regarding the use of injectable medications in athletic medicine.
Physiological, biochemical and psychological markers of strenuous training-induced fatigue.	The purpose of the study was to investigate whether severe fatigue, possibly leading to overreaching, could be diagnosed at an early stage by a combination of parameters. Seven well-trained male subjects (age [mean +/- SD]: 25.3 +/- 4.7 yr; body mass: 76 +/- 6.6 kg; VO2max: 61.1 +/- 7 ml.kg(-1).min(-1)) increased their training load by doubling their training volume and increasing the intensity by 15 % over a period of two weeks. Before and after this intensified training period subjects underwent a series of tests including a maximal incremental cycle ergometer test (Wmax) with continuous ventilatory measurements and blood lactate values, time trial, basal blood parameter tests (red and white blood profile), hormones [growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor 1(IGF-1), adreno-corticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol], neuro-endocrine stress test [short insulin tolerance test (SITT), combined anterior pituitary test (CAPT) and exercise], a shortened Profile of Mood State (POMS), the estimated rate of perceived exertion (RPE) and a cognitive reaction time test. The intensified training period resulted in a significant increase of the training load (p <0.01), training monotony (p <0.01) and training strain (p <0.01). The RPE during training increased significantly (p <0.01) during the intensified training period. Total mood score obtained from the POMS tended to increase (p=0.06), reflecting an increase in worse mood state. A novel finding was that reaction times increased significantly, indicating that overreaching might adversely affect speed of information processing by the brain, especially for the most difficult conditions. After the intensified training period, neither changes in exercise-induced plasma hormone values, nor SITT values were observed. During the CAPT only cortisol showed a significant decrease after the intensified training period. Hemoglobin showed a significant decrease after the intensified training period whereas hematocrit, red blood cell count (RBC) and MCV tended to decrease. The intensified training had no effect on physical performance (Wmax or time trial), maximal blood lactate, maximal heart rate and white blood cell profile. The most sensitive parameters for detecting overreaching are reaction time performance (indicative for cognitive brain functioning), RPE and to a lesser extend the shortened POMS. This strongly suggests, that central fatigue precedes peripheral fatigue. All other systems,including the neuro-endocrine, are more robust and react most likely at a later stage in exhaustive training periods.
A comparison of three methods of analyzing post-exercise oxygen consumption.	Oxygen consumption after exercise is frequently plotted as a function of time and then the area under the curve (AUC) is calculated. Subsequently, this AUC is further manipulated and thus, differences between these manipulations may impact the interpretation of changes in oxygen consumption after exercise. The purpose of this study was to determine if the method of calculating AUC influences the interpretation of changes in post-exercise oxygen consumption in response to long-term aerobic exercise. Forty-three moderately obese, sedentary participants volunteered to participate in this study (26 women and 17 men). All participants performed verified supervised exercise during the study. Supervised treadmill exercise was initially conducted for 3 d/week at 60 % of heart rate reserve (HRR) for 30 min and progressed to 5 d/week at 75 % of HRR for 45 min across the first 4 months. Pre-exercise, exercise, and post-exercise oxygen consumption was measured at baseline and 9 months. AUC was calculated by three methods; total, incremental, and positive incremental. Descriptive statistics and dependent T-tests were calculated for each method of calculating the AUC. In addition, the intra-individual coefficient of variation was determined for each individual for each AUC method. A pearson product moment correlation was calculated for each method to determine the strength of the relationship between pre- and post-training values. The change in post-exercise oxygen AUC after nine months of training was 5.36+/-10.90 L, 2.17+/-7.61 L, and 1.74+/-9.10 L for the total, incremental, and positive incremental methods, respectively. There was significant change in post-exercise total AUC from baseline to 9-months (5.36 +/- 10.90 L), while there was no significant change in incremental or positive incremental AUC. There was a moderately high correlation (r=0.67, p <0.05) between baseline and 9-months for the total AUC method, while there was no significant correlation for incremental and positive incremental AUC methods. These results suggest that the method used to calculate AUC can lead to a different interpretation of the effects of training on post-exercise oxygen consumption. From this data, it appears that analyzing post exercise oxygen consumption with the total area under the curve method has a greater ability to detect a change from aerobic training, than either the positive or incremental area under the curve methods.
Effects of rate of force development on EMG amplitude and frequency.	The purpose of this study was to compare the amplitude and frequency of the gastrocnemius EMG during ramp and ballistic contractions in highly trained sprint athletes. Sixteen female sprinters performed ramp and ballistic isometric contractions on a Biodex dynamometer. RMS and median frequency of the gastrocnemius EMG signals were obtained at the following torque levels: 25 +/- 5 %, 50 +/- 5 %, 75 +/- 5 %, 100 % MVC. The average rate of force development (RFD), was 610.2 +/- 123.1 N . m/s and 212.3 +/- 155.6 N . m/s for the ballistic and ramp contractions, respectively. In the ramp contractions the EMG amplitude increased as a function of torque. In the ballistic contractions the EMG amplitude decreased from 25 % to 100 % MVC. The highest RFD of 889.45 N . m/s was generated in ballistic contractions by a muscular activation pattern with high EMG amplitude (475.7 microV) and low frequency (116.7 Hz) at 25 % MVC. The findings suggest that the CNS utilizes different muscular activation patterns to modulate RFD in ramp and ballistic contractions. In ramp contractions the EMG amplitude increased linearly with force. In ballistic contractions a high RFD is generated with a muscular activation pattern consisting of high amplitude and low frequency at the start of the contraction.
Dental injuries in sports.	The expanding arena of sports and vigorous recreational activities is associated with an increased risk for sports-related injuries, including trauma to the teeth. Because dental professionals may not be present on site, in the best interest of athletes, it is suggested that sports medicine professionals who are present be provided with current evaluative, emergent, and referral protocols for proper management of sports-related dental injuries to address the immediate needs of the athlete and to enhance the long-term prognosis of the traumatized tooth. This article provides information related to some of the more common dental injuries encountered in sports, including crown fractures, root fractures, and traumatic tooth displacements. Use of properly fitted, custom-fabricated athletic mouth guards for the prevention of dental injuries is recommended strongly, as is the inclusion of a dentist on the sports medicine team roster.
Exercise and its effects on the central nervous system.	Exercise can have profound effects on numerous biologic systems within the human body, including the central nervous system (CNS). The inherent complexity of the CNS, and the methodologic difficulties in evaluating its in vivo neurochemistry in humans, provide challenges to investigators studying the impact of exercise on the CNS. As a result, our knowledge in this area of exercise science remains relatively limited. However, advances in research technology are allowing investigators to gain valuable insight into the neurobiologic mechanisms that contribute to the bidirectional communication that occurs between the periphery and the CNS during exercise. This article examines how exercise-induced alterations in the CNS contribute to central fatigue and the overtraining syndrome, and how exercise can influence psychologic wellbeing and cognitive function.
Acute disposition of neck injuries.	Neck injuries can be some of the most serious and anxiety-producing injuries that occur during sporting events. It is important for the team physician to be prepared for the care of these injuries and be able to identify some of the more serious injuries. Proper care of these injuries can be life saving and prevent further injury and permanent disability. This article reviews the principles of management and latest evidence for acute neck injuries.
Current thinking: return to play and transient quadriplegia.	Athletes that participate in contact and collision sports assume risk of serious injury each time they take the field. For those athletes that have sustained an episode of transient quadriplegia, the decision of whether to return to competition can be a difficult one. Some athletes, realizing how close they may have come to permanent injury, may decide that further participation is not in their best interest. Others may be somewhat undecided, and some may want to return at all costs. As the treating physician, the goal is to identify those athletes who after a single episode of transient quadriplegia are at increased risk for further injury and consequently should discontinue participation in contact sports. Factors that may contribute to that determination include mechanism of injury, prior history of neurologic symptoms or injury, and anatomic features that may predispose to further injury such as disc herniation, fracture, or cervical stenosis.
Medical coverage for track and field events.	Providing medical coverage at a track and field event is similar to other spectator events, but there are some important differences. With simultaneous events occurring over a large area, reliable communication with quick access to all event sites is mandatory. Preparation needs to include a prearranged emergency response plan for each event. Because field events involve throwing heavy and sometimes sharp objects (discus, hammer, shot put, and javelin) or landing in a cushioned pit (high jump, pole vault), sites need well-demarcated, constantly monitored boundaries with properly installed, well-maintained safety equipment. All personnel involved in monitoring these events should be educated on proper procedure in managing potential head or neck injuries. Event officials must also remained focused on their tasks, avoiding the distractions that simultaneous events can cause. Because most events are outdoors, appropriate protection and recovery sites for heat, cold, and sun exposure should be arranged.
Core stability: the centerpiece of any training program.	Core strengthening and stability exercises have become key components of training programs for athletes of all levels. The core muscles act as a bridge between upper and lower limbs, and force is transferred from the core, often called the powerhouse, to the limbs. Stability initially requires maintenance of a neutral spine but must progress beyond the neutral zone in a controlled manner. Some studies have demonstrated a relationship between core stability and increased incidence of injury. A training program should start with exercises that isolate specific core muscles but must progress to include complex movements and incorporate other training principles.
Some aspects of functional diagnostics in sportsmen of high qualification]	The article presents characteristics and prevalence of EKG changes among sportsmen of high qualification. A new interpretation of such changes is given in the article. EKG data had been compared with the dynamics of sports results. It was established that ECG carried out in a group of professionals was not of sufficient diagnostic value. Differential diagnostics of ECG changes may be practiced with a wide use of current stress pharmacological testing, modern methods of ECG monitoring, echocardiography with Doppler analysis, stress-echocardiography under physical activity, assessment of variability of the cardiac rate.
Practical management: vocal cord dysfunction in athletes.	Vocal cord dysfunction (VCD) is characterized by paradoxical adduction of the vocal folds during inhalation, and occasionally upon exhalation, resulting in extrathoracic airflow obstruction. Sports medicine professionals must have a high index of suspicion for VCD when acute respiratory symptoms occur so that prompt evaluation and use of appropriate specialists results in an accurate and timely diagnosis. Many factors have been implicated in the pathophysiology of VCD, including laryngeal irritants, psychogenic and neurogenic causes. The diagnosis and management of VCD involves a variety of specialties including pulmonology, otolaryngology, speech-language pathology, allergy and immunology, and psychologic management as appropriate. The mainstay of treatment remains behavioral management guided by a medical speech-language pathologist, as well as pharmacologic management for VCD triggers.
Mass spectrometry in sports drug testing: Structure characterization and analytical assays.	Owing to the sensitive, selective, and unambiguous nature of mass spectrometric analyses, chromatographic techniques interfaced to various kinds of mass spectrometers have become the most frequently employed strategy in the fight against doping. To obtain utmost confidence in analytical assays, mass spectrometric characterization of target analytes and typical dissociation pathways have been utilized as basis for the development of reliable and robust screening as well as confirmation procedures. Methods for qualitative and/or quantitative determinations of prohibited low and high molecular weight drugs have been established in doping control laboratories preferably employing gas or liquid chromatography combined with electron, chemical, or atmospheric pressure ionization followed by analyses using quadrupole, ion trap, linear ion trap, or hyphenated techniques. The versatility of modern mass spectrometers enable specific as well as comprehensive measurements allowing sports drug testing laboratories to determine the misuse of therapeutics such as anabolic-androgenic steroids, stimulants, masking agents or so-called designer drugs in athletes' blood or urine specimens, and a selection of recent developments is summarized in this review.
Clinician practices for the management of amenorrhea in the adolescent and young adult athlete.	This study sought to describe clinician practices for the management of amenorrhea in the adolescent and young adult athlete. Clinicians adhered to certain guidelines but did not have a uniform "standard of care" for amenorrheic athletes. Almost 80% of clinicians reported insufficient guidelines for the management of this population.
Coronary anomalies: cardiac CT evaluation of the symptomatic adult athlete.	Cardiac CT has become widely available as a diagnostic test. It is noninvasive, low risk (for contrast allergies), quick, and highly sensitive for identifying the coronary origins and course. Two coronary anomalies, the left main artery from the right sinus of Valsalva, and the right coronary artery originating from the left sinus, have been associated both with myocardial ischemia and sudden cardiac death when they course between the aorta and pulmonary arteries. These anomalies can go undetected into adulthood. The yield of noninvasive exercise testing is low. In the past, the ability to demonstrate these anomalies depended on a high index of suspicion and an aggressive invasive work-up with cardiac catheterization. Now cardiac CT can demonstrate these anomalies with ease and facilitate appropriate treatment.
Preventing sudden death on the athletic field: the emergency action plan.	Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is the leading cause of death in young athletes. Proper management of SCA in the athletic venue is critical. Preparation should include education and training, maintenance of emergency equipment and supplies, appropriate use of personnel, and the formation and implementation of an emergency action plan (EAP). The EAP should be specific to each individual athletic venue and encompass emergency personnel, emergency communication, emergency equipment, medical emergency transportation, and venue directions with map. With SCA, access to early defibrillation is essential. A target goal of under 5 minutes from time of collapse to first shock is strongly recommended. An automated external defibrillator should be part of standard emergency planning for coverage of athletic activities. Through development and implementation of an EAP, healthcare providers help to ensure that the athlete will have the best care provided when an emergency situation does arise.
Approach to the athlete with thoracic aortic disease.	Sports medicine specialists have a unique opportunity to identify individuals who may be at risk for thoracic aortic disease. These patients may have physical features such as tall stature and long limbs (which typify Marfan syndrome), but also lend themselves to participation in competitive athletics. These individuals are at increased risk of sudden death from aortic dissection. Avoiding or delaying aortic complications involves recognition and screening, medications, and prophylactic surgery when the aorta reaches a size threshold. A key feature in management is recognition of the aortic disease and avoiding those sports or exercises that place excess strain or stress on the aorta. Care involves multiple disciplines including primary care physicians, cardiologists, geneticists, ophthalmologists, and orthopedic and cardiac surgeons; however, the sports medicine specialist is often instrumental in guiding the athlete toward proper diagnosis and safe activities in an effort to avoid catastrophic complications.
Sportsman's hernia.	Sportsman's hernia (SH) is a controversial cause of chronic groin pain in athletes. Most commonly seen in soccer and ice hockey players, SH can be encountered in a variety of sports and in a variety of age groups. Although there are several reports of SH in women, it is almost exclusively found in men. SH is largely a clinical diagnosis of exclusion. History of chronic groin pain that is nonresponsive to treatment should raise suspicion of SH, but physical examination findings are subtle and most diagnostic tests do not definitively confirm the diagnosis. Conservative treatment of SH does not often result in resolution of symptoms. Surgical intervention results in pain-free return of full activities in a majority of cases.
Radiographic evaluation of the patient with sport-related abdominal trauma.	Abdominal injuries are rare in sports, but they can be very serious, even life threatening when they occur. With the increasing popularity of snowboarding and extreme skiing, the rate of abdominal injuries is beginning to rise slightly. It is imperative that physicians be able to recognize signs of injury to the liver, spleen, kidney, and hollow abdominal viscera and order appropriate diagnostic tests to investigate these injuries. This article focuses on the imaging modalities physicians can use to assist in diagnosis of sport-related abdominal trauma. Although the sports medicine physician will likely not provide definitive care and treatment of these injuries, because a team approach works best, it is important to know how to diagnose them through the proper studies.
Gastrointestinal infections in the traveling athlete.	Because athletes travel to competitions all over the world, sports medicine providers need to be able to diagnose and treat gastrointestinal infections. Traveler's diarrhea (TD) is by far the most common gastrointestinal illness. TD is a self-limited condition caused by bacteria, viruses, or parasites, and it can easily be treated. Nevertheless, there are preventative measures that should be taken to limit the exposure to TD in the first place.
Field validation of the MTI Actigraph and BodyMedia armband monitor using the IDEEA monitor.	Accelerometers offer considerable promise for improving estimates of physical activity (PA) and energy expenditure (EE) in free-living subjects. Differences in calibration equations and cut-off points have made it difficult to determine the most accurate way to process these data. The objective of this study was to compare the accuracy of various calibration equations and algorithms that are currently used with the MTI Actigraph (MTI) and the Sensewear Pro II (SP2) armband monitor.
Balancing life as a team physician.	This article reviews the author's ten commandments for a balanced life as a team physician: (1) Do the right thing, always, no exceptions; (2) It's better to be an advocate than curse your competition; (3) Don't demand respect from players and coaches, earn it; (4) Loyalty is the weakest of human values (5) Communicate: Team physicians must always be available to athletic training staff; (6) In order to hit the mark, one must aim a little higher; (7) Enjoy your role as team physician; (8) Remember the five A's--Availability, Ability, Affability, Advocacy, and Affiliation; (9) Dare to care; and (10) Don't forget your family and friends.
Educational opportunities and implications associated with the team physician.	Teaching is one of the primary responsibilities of the team physician. After all, teaching and medicine are inseparable. Educating others is a challenging yet essential role of a team physician, and understanding the educational opportunities, responsibilities, and methods of creating a learning environment are essential qualities of the team physician. The successful teaching team physician is the one who accepts his role as an educator, understands the importance of involvement in the educational process at all levels, and is able to create an environment conducive to student learning, while at the same time serving as a valuable resource for patients, coaches, administrators, and the public.
Posture in basketball players.	Static and dynamic posturography was recorded in eleven professional national basketball players (complete team). This sport requires balance and skill and is practiced by tall subjects (average height: 197 cm) with a history of 10 to 15 tibio-tarsal sprains. In static tests, with eyes open or closed, the way was similar between controls and players, while the area was increased for the latter. Area increment could be related to the history of ankle trauma reported by these subjects. In toes up dynamic tests, the latency of the first response (short latency response-myotatic reflex) was shorter in players. Data provided by national charts were used to compare posturography performance and player's skill. The best player who also ranks high in the national chart, has distinctive results in static posturography, with almost no difference when the test is performed with closed eyes.
Differences in patellofemoral kinematics between weight-bearing and non-weight-bearing conditions in patients with patellofemoral pain.	Patellar maltracking is thought to be one source of patellofemoral pain. Measurements of patellar tracking are frequently obtained during non-weight-bearing knee extension; however, pain typically arises during highly loaded activities, such as squatting, stair climbing, and running. It is unclear whether patellofemoral joint kinematics during lightly loaded tasks replicate patellofemoral joint motion during weight-bearing activities. The purpose of this study was to: evaluate differences between upright, weight-bearing and supine, non-weight-bearing joint kinematics in patients with patellofemoral pain; and evaluate whether the kinematics in subjects with maltracking respond differently to weight-bearing than those in nonmaltrackers. We used real-time magnetic resonance imaging to visualize the patellofemoral joint during dynamic knee extension from 30° to 0° of knee flexion during two conditions: upright, weight-bearing and supine, non-weight-bearing. We compared patellofemoral kinematics measured from the images. The patella translated more laterally during the supine task compared to the weight-bearing task for knee flexion angles between 0° and 5° (p = 0.001). The kinematics of the maltrackers responded differently to joint loading than those of the non-maltrackers. In subjects with excessive lateral patellar translation, the patella translated more laterally during upright, weight-bearing knee extension for knee flexion angles between 25° and 30° (p = 0.001). However, in subjects with normal patellar translation, the patella translated more laterally during supine, non-weight-bearing knee extension near full extension (p = 0.001). These results suggest that patellofemoral kinematics measured during supine, unloaded tasks do not accurately represent the joint motion during weight-bearing activities.
Pediatric sports-related concussion.	This article aims to examine pediatric concussion literature with respect to epidemiology, etiology, return to play, and recurrent concussions, and to provide recommendations for future research. We conducted a review of pediatric concussion literature regarding incidence, etiology, return to play, and recurrent concussive injury by using MEDLINE, CINAHL, Sport-Discus, and PsychInfo databases from 1995-2010. A review of reference lists in the aforementioned articles was also performed. We discovered that the research on sports-related concussion specific to children and adolescents is rather limited. Results of existing studies of concussion incidence in this population indicate that concussion is relatively rare compared with most musculoskeletal injuries; however, the potential consequences of mismanagement and of subsequent injury warrant significant attention regarding injury recognition and recovery, and the challenge of determining readiness to return to play. Evidence exists that children and adolescents take longer to recover than adults after a concussion, which underscores the need for a more conservative approach to management and return to physical and cognitive activities. Concussion in the young athlete is of specific concern because of the continuing cognitive maturation, therefore, the recovery may be more difficult to track when using the standard assessment tools currently available. Until future studies can better delineate the mechanisms of, response to, and recovery from concussion in the young athlete, it is prudent to act in a conservative manner when dealing with pediatric athletes with concussion.
Biomechanical evaluation of the athlete's knee: from basic science to clinical application.	Clinical screening to assess knee biomechanical dysfunctions and its comorbidities has been of interest for researchers and clinicians in recent years. Although research in the area of knee injury mechanics has elucidated some of the biomechanical predisposing factors that lead to knee injury, clinicians are still puzzled on how to translate these findings to their clinical practice. Highly instrumented, costly equipment and time-consuming data analyses are some of the difficulties of using 3-dimensional biomechanical analysis in the clinic. However, several biomechanical lower-extremity assessment tools are available and feasible to use in the clinic to guide proper clinical decision making that may impact prevention of knee injuries in the physically active population. The purpose of this article was to review screening techniques for assessment of lower extremity biomechanics and to translate these findings to clinical practice and to bridge the gap between basic science and clinical application. After reading this article, clinicians should be able to (1) identify lower-extremity factors related to knee injury, (2) appropriately select functional tasks to evaluate patients, and (3) make intervention recommendations or appropriate referral to address altered lower-extremity biomechanics related to knee injury.
Dynamic method of trauma prophylaxis during mass sport exercises]	This article is dedicated to the original technique of prophylactics of sport injuries during mass sport exercises, especially in time of overcoming physical obstacle exercises. The results of the study showed that preliminary application of specially designed training program aimed at improving movement coordination, strengthening responsible muscle groups which are responsible quality of exercises to be completed allows decreasing the level of sport injuries during mass sport exercises among young sportpeople, especially in time of overcoming different physical obstacle exercises.
Sports medicine applications of platelet rich plasma.	Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is a powerful new biologic tool in sports medicine. PRP is a fraction of autologous whole blood containing and increased number of platelets and a wide variety of cytokines such as platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-B1), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) among many others. Worldwide interest in this biologic technology has recently risen sharply. Basic science and preclinical data support the use of PRP for a variety of sports related injuries and disorders. The published, peer reviewed, human data on PRP is limited. Although the scientific evaluation of clinical efficacy is in the early stages, elite and recreational athletes already use PRP in the treatment of sports related injuries. Many questions remain to be answered regarding the use of PRP including optimal formulation, including of leukocytes, dosage and rehabilitation protocols. In this review, a classification for platelet rich plasma is proposed and the in-vitro, preclinical and human investigations of PRP applications in sports medicine will be reviewed as well as a discussion of rehabilitation after a PRP procedure. The regulation of PRP by the World Anti-Doping Agency will also be discussed. PRP is a promising technology in sports medicine; however, it will require more vigorous study in order to better understand how to apply it most effectively.
Female athlete triad syndrome in the high school athlete.	Female sports participation at the high school level has significantly increased since the 1970s. Physical activity in females has numerous positive benefits, including improved body image and overall health. Unfortunately, a select population of exercising females may experience symptoms related to the "female athlete triad," which refers to the interrelationships among energy availability, menstrual function, and bone mineral density. Clinically, these conditions can manifest as disordered eating behaviors, menstrual irregularity, and stress fractures. Athletes with conditions related to the triad are distributed along a spectrum between optimal health and disease and may not experience all conditions simultaneously. Previous research related to the triad has primarily focused on collegiate and elite athletes. However, mounting evidence demonstrates that the triad is present in the high school population. High school athletes should be assessed for triad components at preparticipation physicals. In addition, parents, coaches, and health care professionals should be educated and informed about the female athlete triad syndrome. In the presence of triad symptoms, further evaluation and treatment by a multidisciplinary team is strongly recommended for the athlete.
Foreword: stem cell applications and tissue engineering approaches in sports medicine- from bench to bedside.	Musculoskeletal tissue is frequently damaged or lost in sports injuries. Although surgery has been successful in repairing, realigning and replacing damaged musculoskeletal structures, the challenge of the coming years is to establish whether a paradigm shift from fixation towards regeneration of tissue is possible, clinically feasible and financially viable. There has been an increasing interest in stem cell applications and tissue engineering approaches in surgical practice to deal with damaged or lost tissue caused by sports injuries [1-3]. Tissue engineering is the science of generating tissue using molecular and cellular techniques, combined with material engineering principles, to replace tissue. Although there have been developments in almost all surgical disciplines [1], the greatest advances are being made in orthopaedics, especially in sports medicine [3]. This is due to many factors including the familiarity with bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells.
An overview of recent application of medical infrared thermography in sports medicine in Austria.	Medical infrared thermography (MIT) is used for analyzing physiological functions related to skin temperature. Technological advances have made MIT a reliable medical measurement tool. This paper provides an overview of MIT's technical requirements and usefulness in sports medicine, with a special focus on overuse and traumatic knee injuries. Case studies are used to illustrate the clinical applicability and limitations of MIT. It is concluded that MIT is a non-invasive, non-radiating, low cost detection tool which should be applied for pre-scanning athletes in sports medicine.
Overview of spinal interventions.	Athletes represent a specific subgroup of highly motivated patients with a unique set of social and psychological incentives. Demands placed on the lumbosacral system are high, and athletes may be particularly prone to the pathology discussed above. For this reason, it is crucial to consider the athlete as a functional whole operating in concert with intrinsic and extrinsic factors and to consider the lumbosacral system within the context of the complete kinetic chain. Spinal interventions should never be considered in isolation but rather as part of a comprehensive rehabilitation program targeting psychosocial as well as biomechanical opportunities. When interventional procedures are warranted, they should be performed according to existing guidelines regarding indication, patient selection, and technique where possible and with systems in place to maximize patient safety and to consistently monitor for response. Each of the interventions discussed above should be performed with fluoroscopic guidance, given the lack of accuracy without fluoroscopy, and generally be reserved for athletes not responding to conservative care. When returning an athlete to play after ESI, we recommend careful serial evaluation as well as involvement of appropriate family members, athletic trainers, and coaches in the decision-making process. Athletes should not return to play with any significant objective neurologic deficits. In appropriate athletes, return to play should occur with graduated and comprehensive rehabilitation as discussed above. Because evidence concerning the interventions discussed in this article is often lacking, clinical judgment is paramount regarding their allocation. The interventions explored above likely do provide viable treatment adjuncts in the carefully selected athlete but are not without risk. Athlete safety and global well being should guide any decision to pursue interventional treatment options.
Health protection of the Olympic athlete.	Protection of the athletes' health is a clearly articulated objective of the International Olympic Committee. Longitudinal surveillance of injuries and illnesses can provide valuable data that may identify high-risk sports and disciplines. This is a foundation for introducing tailored preventive measures. During the XXIX Summer and XXI Winter Games, comprehensive injury and illness recording through the medical staff of the participating National Olympic Committees and the sports medicine clinics revealed that between 7% and 11% of all athletes incurred an injury or suffered from at least one occurrence of illness during the Games. The incidence of injuries and illnesses varied substantially between sports. In the future, risk factor and injury mechanism analyses in high-risk Olympic sports are essential to better direct injury-prevention strategies. Concomitantly, periodic health evaluations of athletes will be instrumental to optimise health protection.
A prospective study on dinghy sailors' training habits and injury incidence with a comparison between elite sailor and club sailor during a 12-month period.	Sailing is an Olympic sport practiced by both men and women of all ages. Despite being a popular sport, we have found no prospective studies investigating the injury incidence and training quantity such as found for other sports. The purpose of this study was to do an inventory over dinghy sailors' training habits, injury incidence and type of injury.
Rehabilitation of scapular dyskinesis: from the office worker to the elite overhead athlete.	The scapula functions as a bridge between the shoulder complex and the cervical spine and plays a very important role in providing both mobility and stability of the neck/shoulder region. The association between abnormal scapular positions and motions and glenohumeral joint pathology has been well established in the literature, whereas studies investigating the relationship between neck pain and scapular dysfunction have only recently begun to emerge. Although several authors have emphasised the relevance of restoring normal scapular kinematics through exercise and manual therapy techniques, overall scapular rehabilitation guidelines decent for both patients with shoulder pain as well as patients with neck problems are lacking. The purpose of this paper is to provide a science-based clinical reasoning algorithm with practical guidelines for the rehabilitation of scapular dyskinesis in patients with chronic complaints in the upper quadrant. 
A knowledge transfer scheme to bridge the gap between science and practice: an integration of existing research frameworks into a tool for practice.	Evidence of effectiveness does not equal successful implementation. To progress the field, practical tools are needed to bridge the gap between research and practice and to truly unite effectiveness and implementation evidence. This paper describes the Knowledge Transfer Scheme integrating existing implementation research frameworks into a tool which has been developed specifically to bridge the gap between knowledge derived from research on the one side and evidence-based usable information and tools for practice on the other. 
Prevalence and electrocardiographic characteristics of early repolarization pattern in young teen athletes.	Early repolarization (ERP) is a common electrocardiographic finding. Its potential to cause cardiac arrhythmias has been hypothesized from experimental studies, but it is not known whether there is a clinical association with sudden cardiac arrest.
Preparation and medical care of the Kenya national hockey team at the fifth Africa Cup of Nations Championships.	A team of 25 top Kenyan male hockey players preparing for the fifth Africa Cup of Nations Championships was tested before and after seven weeks of training. At the end of the training, 16 of them were selected into the National team. The illnesses and injuries of the team members were documented using the Wekesa Protocol Sheet. The Asembo Hockey Fitness test was used to evaluate fitness. There was a significant decrease in the heart rate after training (p < 0.01). The sum of the recovery pulse decreased from 550.92 +/- 46.90 to 498.88 +/- 44.06 (p < 0.001). A significant (p < 0.01) improvement in the time taken to perform the test (before: 814.08 +/- 126.08 sec; after: 715.0 +/- 92.78 sec) was established. During training and the championship matches a total of seven illnesses occurred. There were no serious injuries, the commonest being contusions (70%), and lacerations (15%). The lower part of the body below the hips was more affected by injuries (60%) than the upper. The results of the fitness test confirm the commonly held view in sports medicine regarding morphological and functional adaptations due to training. The injuries recorded appear to be characteristic of hockey.
The effect of a three week sports training programme on the coordinative ability of asthmatic children.	We set out to evaluate the coordinative ability of asthmatic children and to find out how this component of physical fitness is affected by a training programme of a short duration. Seventeen asthmatic children participated in the study. Their ages ranged from 9.0 to 14.5 years. Their mean weight (+/- SD) was 44.89 +/- 14.94 kg and mean height (+/- SD) was 153.21 +/- 9.92 cm. Coordination was measured using the Body Coordination Test for Children (BCTC) developed by Kiphard and Schilling in 1974. The subjects participated three times a week in a sports programme. The results were analysed using the Wilcoxon test for dependent variables and regression analysis. We noted a significant improvement at the end of the training programme (p < 0.05), although there was no correlation between attendance and improvement in performance. Our results do not support the general view that asthmatics are unfit. We concluded that asthmatic children are not generally unfit, and that their coordinative ability can be improved within a relatively short time of training.
Glycemic index--a new tool in sport nutrition?	The glycemic index (GI) provides a way to rank foods rich in carbohydrate (CHO) according to the glucose response following their intake. Consumption of low-GI CHO foods may attenuate the insulin-mediated metabolic disturbances associated with CHO intake in the hours prior to exercise, better maintaining CHO availability. However, there is insufficient evidence that athletes who consume a low-GI CHO-rich meal prior to a prolonged event will gain clear performance benefits. The ingestion of CHO during prolonged exercise promotes CHO availability and enhances endurance and performance, and athletes usually chose CHO-rich foods and drinks of moderate to high GI to achieve this goal. Moderate- and high-GI CHO choices appear to enhance glycogen storage after exercise compared with low GI CHO-rich foods. However, the reason for this is not clear. A number of attributes of CHO-rich foods may be of value to the athlete including the nutritional value of the food or practical issues such as palatability, portability, cost gastric comfort, or ease of preparation.
