Secular trends in sports: participation and attitudes among adolescents in Sweden from 1974 to 1995.	To study the secular trend (time changes) in participation in leisure-time sports activities and in attitudes towards sports activities and physical education in a representative sample of Swedish adolescents between 1974 and 1995.
Performance-enhancing aids in sport: health consequences and nutritional alternatives.	The use of anabolic-androgenic steroids is epidemic in the sporting world, and the recent recognition of their pervasive use by recreational and adolescent athletes has made the abuse of these drugs a public health concern. A critical review of the literature supports the doctrine that anabolic-androgenic steroids can improve muscular performance if certain criteria are met, but some of the health risks associated with their use may be irreversible, and life-threatening. Furthermore, polydrug abuse, restrictive diets, and dehydrating practices may potentiate the health risks associated with weight training and steroid use. Recent investigations of nutritional and training alternatives to anabolic-androgenic steroids are promising. To help lure athletes from drug abuse, the pursuit of new areas of research and education should be priorities in the campaign against the abuse of anabolic steroids.
Incidence of sudden cardiac death in National Collegiate Athletic Association athletes.	The true incidence of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in US athletes is unknown. Current estimates are based largely on case identification through public media reports and estimated participation rates. The purpose of this study was to more precisely estimate the incidence of SCD in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) student-athletes and assess the accuracy of traditional methods for collecting data on SCD.
The evolution of sports medicine in Singapore.	Sports medicine is a relatively new subspecialty in Singapore. This commentary chronicles its evolution in Singapore from 1969, through various milestones, to the present day. The first sports medicine clinic in Singapore was established in 1971 at Farrer Park. Notable institutions that followed include the Sports Medicine and Research Centre (1973), Soldier Performance Centre, Changi Sports Medicine Centre (2003), Singapore Sports Medicine Centre (2006), and other multidisciplinary centres of restructured hospitals. Formal groundwork to establish sports medicine as a subspecialty began in 2005, with its first trainee commencing traineeship at the Changi Sports Medicine Centre in 2007, and culminated in the subspecialty register at the beginning of 2011. Also captured in this discussion are the broader scopes of sports medicine, including military sports medicine, the sports sciences, exercise medicine, and event medical coverage. 
Strategies for assessing the prevalence of cardiovascular sudden deaths in young competitive athletes.	Prevalence/incidence of sudden death due to cardiovascular disease in young competitive athletes has become an important part of the debate over the most effective and practical preparticipation screening strategies for this population. Since event reporting is not mandatory, identification of cases has been achieved largely through publicly available data and internet searches. The accuracy of this methodology has not been studied and deserves scrutiny.
