Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity and asymmetrical accumulation of F-actin are necessary for establishment of cell polarity in the early development of monospores from the marine red alga Porphyra yezoensis.	The polarized distribution of F-actin is important in providing the driving force for directional migration in mammalian leukocytes and Dictyostelium cells, in which compartmentation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and phosphatidylinositol phosphatase is critical for the establishment of cell polarity. Since monospores from the red alga Porphyra yezoensis are a real example of migrating plant cells, the involvement of the cytoskeleton and PI3K was investigated during their early development. Our results indicate that the asymmetrical localization of F-actin at the leading edge is fixed by the establishment of the anterior-posterior axis in migrating monospores, which is PI3K-dependent and protein synthesis-independent. After migration, monospores adhere to the substratum and then become upright, developing into multicellular thalli via the establishment of the apical-basal axis. In this process, F-actin usually accumulates at the bottom of the basal cell and development after migration requires new protein synthesis. These findings suggest that the establishment of anterior-posterior and apical-basal axes are differentially regulated during the early development of monospores. Our results also indicate that PI3K-dependent F-actin asymmetry is evolutionally conserved in relation to the establishment of cell polarity in migrating eukaryotic cells.
Reactivative action of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid or dipicolinic acid on inactive glucose dehydrogenase obtained from heated spores of Bacillus subtilis.	Partially purified inactive glucose dehydrogenase obtained from spores which were heated at 87 or 90 C for 30 min is converted to an active from by the addition of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, dipicolinic acid, or some salts. The molecular weight of the inactive glucose dehydrogenase in the heated spores is about one-half of that of the active glucose dehydrogenase in the intact resting spores. The possibility is discussed that the active glucose dehydrogenase in the intact resting spores divides into subunits and is converted to stable and inactive form during heating of spores at a particular range of temperature (87 to 90 C).
Isolation of the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase gene of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae (Nicol. & Gerd.) Gerdemann & Trappe.	The 3-phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) gene of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae has been isolated by differential RNA display (DD). Experimentally, the technique of DD was utilized to simultaneously compare the mRNA transcript populations from Lycopersicon esculentum root systems colonized by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus G. mosseae and non-mycorrhizal plants. A differentially expressed band was isolated and cloned from mycorrhizal tissue. The isolated DD fragment was screened and sequenced. A reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) technique detected transcripts in germinated spores and G. mosseae-colonized root systems but not in uncolonised root systems. The full-length cDNA was isolated by RACE and corresponded to the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase gene of G. mosseae. The cDNA encodes a polypeptide of 416 amino acids, with a predicted molecular weight of 44 764 Da. The PGK proteins shows high homology to those PGKs of other fungi and the phylogenetic relationship among 14 isolated fungal PGK sequences is illustrated.
