A comparison of sexual satisfaction and post-natal depression in the UK and Taiwan.	To compare the sexual expression and sexual satisfaction of women in the UK and Taiwan before and after childbirth, to determine if there is an association between self reported sexual satisfaction and postnatal depression (PND) and the main sources of sexual information for women during this period.
When family enters the picture: the model of cultural negotiation and gendered experiences of Japanese academic sojourners in the United States.	A grounded-theory study aimed at reconceptualizing cultural adaptation processes from gender role and family/couple perspectives while critically drawing from acculturation and culture and self literatures. In-depth interviews with 34 Japanese academic sojourners (international students, scholars) and their spouses (a total of 50 interviews with select longitudinal interviews) were conducted. The author earlier developed the Model of Cultural Negotiation (2001; 2006) capturing uneven and cyclical processes of dealing with multiple cultural contexts. The current study further develops more tailored versions of this model, Family-Based (Couple-Based) Cultural Negotiation and Individual-Based Cultural Negotiation, highlighting the impacts of family/couple and gender roles, especially for female spouses. These conceptualizations afford a sophisticated understanding of the processes of culture.
Exploring couple attributes and attitudes and marital violence in Vietnam.	Using a couple-centered approach, this study focuses on the relative attributes and attitudes of spouses as predictors of marital violence. Analysis of data from Vietnam showed that 37% of married women have ever been hit by their husbands. Regression results found that husbands with lower resources or status than their wives were more likely to have abused. Results also found that the association between husbands' gender attitudes and marital violence depends on the level of equity of wives'attitudes. The decline in violence among couples in which husbands expressed gender equitable attitudes was greater when wives also expressed equitable attitudes.
An analysis of the stressors and coping strategies of Chinese adults with a partner admitted to an intensive care unit in Hong Kong: an exploratory study.	The aim of this study was to identify the major stressors affecting Chinese adults whose partner had been admitted to an intensive care unit and to understand the major coping strategies employed to manage such stressors.
Mutual caring of elderly Korean couples.	The article described the experiences of elderly couples caring for each other using ethnographic methodology. Ten couples were interviewed in depth. The presence of a support system was found to be the primary requirement of elderly couples. Three taxonomies comprised the support system: (a) desire for respect in care, (b) desire for reliance, and (c) expectation. The close linkage and interaction of desire for care, desire for reliance, and expectations were confirmed. The findings suggested establishing a holistic support network for these elders.
Partners in health? Exploring resemblance in health between partners in married and cohabiting couples.	Sociological theories on family formation and families and health suggest that married and cohabiting partners will resemble each other in health status, positively or negatively. The family is often seen as a health-enhancing agent for individuals. However, there are large health differences among families. This study aims to answer the question whether it is the case that the healthy live with the healthy and individuals with poor health have partners who are also in poor health. Moreover, it examines whether resemblance in health is a consequence of partner choice--educational homogamy in particular--behaviour or shared circumstances. Younger and older couples are compared to investigate whether health resemblance increases over the lifecourse. Analyses of a nationally representative sample of almost 12,000 Dutch couples show that partners are indeed significantly alike with regard to several health indicators. Respondents whose partner reports poor health are almost three times more likely to report poor health than respondents whose partner is in good health. There is a strong accumulation of health problems within households. Partner selection with regard to education causes part of the partner resemblance in health. Less support is found for the hypotheses that risk behaviour, mutual influence or the effects of shared circumstances cause similarity between partners' health status. Surprisingly, partners in older couples, who have been together for a longer time, do not resemble each other significantly more than partners in younger couples. The implications of these findings for sociological theory and social inequalities in health are discussed.
Attitudes of Jordanian society toward wife abuse.	The authors conducted an exploratory study among a convenience sample of 260 Jordanian men and women, using self-administered open and closed questions to examine the participants' approach toward wife abuse. In general, there was high awareness of wife abuse and the different types of abuse (mainly physical and psychological), a general tendency to oppose wife abuse, a tendency to blame the victim for abuse, and a lesser tendency to blame the abuse on the husband, marital problems, as well as familial and societal conditions. There was also a strong tendency to consider wife abuse a personal and familial issue rather than a social and legal problem. Therefore, the preferred method for coping with wife abuse and violence was the expectation that the abused wife should change her behavior and assume responsibility to change her husband followed by resorting to informal agents (family or community or religious figures). Less preferred coping methods included confronting the husband and expressing desire to break up or separate and resorting to formal agents (social welfare programs, counseling, legal system), as a last resort in cases of repeated abuse and severe physical violence. The implications of these findings for future research, interventions, and policy formulation are discussed.
