Violence against women in Mexico: a study of abuse before and during pregnancy.	We identified the prevalence and types of violence experienced by pregnant women, the ways victimization changed during pregnancy from the year prior to pregnancy, and factors associated with violence during pregnancy.
A second failure to replicate the Gottman et al. (1995) typology of men who abuse intimate partners...and possible reasons why.	The present study attempts to replicate Gottman et al.'s (1995; see record 1995-44075-001; and Jacobson & Gottman, 1998) psychophysiological study that classifies partner assaultive men into two distinct groups: heart rate (HR) decelerators (Type 1 batterers) and HR accelerators (Type 2 batterers). Current results indicate no significant differences between Type 1 and Type 2 batterers on the antisocial spectrum of behaviors. Resting HR, rather than HR change, was negatively related to the antisocial spectrum of behavior for batterers with severe, clinical levels of violence only. Reasons for subsequent failures to replicate the Type 1 versus Type 2 distinctions may be attributable to unusually high autonomic arousal during baseline in the original study. Consideration of resting HR and the use of dimensional as opposed to categorical approaches in analyzing the heterogeneity of batterers are proposed as possible solutions to clarifying inconsistencies across laboratories.
A typology of men who batter: three types derived from cluster analysis.	Important theoretical and treatment implications may be revealed when men who batter their intimate partners are categorized according to type. Data on 165 batterers were cluster analyzed, and three types identified: family-only aggressors, generalized aggressors, and emotionally volatile aggressors. The clustering variables explained 90% of the variance in category assignment. Implications for treatment are discussed.
Marital aggression. Impact, injury, and health correlates for husbands and wives.	The overall aim of the current study was to comprehensively evaluate the prevalence, impact, and health correlates of marital aggression in a clinical sample of maritally discordant couples seeking psychological treatment. Participants were 93 consecutively presenting clinic couples and 16 maritally satisfied matched control couples from the community. Overall, 71% of clinic couples reported at least one act of marital aggression during the past year. Although 86% of the aggression reported was reciprocal between husbands and wives, impact and injuries sustained as a function of this aggression differed between husbands and wives. Specifically, wives were more likely than husbands to be negatively affected and to sustain severe injuries (eg, broken bones, broken teeth, or injury to sensory organs). Additionally, wives who experienced marital aggression reported clinical levels of depressive symptomatology. Recommendations are offered and risk markers are identified to improve detection by physicians of patients who may be involved in violent marriages.
Gender violence prevalence in female users of health services in Mexico]	To identify the prevalence of violence against females among those who are health service beneficiaries in Mexico.
Over- vs. undercontrolled hostility: application of the construct to the classification of maritally violent men.	The purpose of the present investigation was to evaluate the applicability of Megargee's (1967) distinction between over- and undercontrolled hostility to maritally aggressive men. Subjects were 41 men who were referred for treatment for physical marital violence. Data were derived from a written battery of self-report measures. Overcontrolled hostile men showed patterns of abuse in which violent episodes were more severe but less frequent and in which the wife was the sole target of the aggressive behavior. Undercontrolled hostile husbands were more generally aggressive and more frequently aggressive. Additionally, undercontrolled husbands were more likely than overcontrolled husbands to have witnessed violence in their families of origin and to have had rejecting mothers. Implications for the assessment and treatment of marital violence are discussed.
