Assessment of acute ankle sprain with os subfibularein children.	Children commonly present with acute inversion injuries of the ankle. Radiographs occasionally show small fragments under the tip of the lateral malleolus. The purpose of our study was to clarify their origin. A prospective standardized clinical examination and a magnetic resonance imaging were carried out. Among the 116 included patients, seven of them showed an os subfibulare. They presented more pains on the lateral ankle area than the other children. We found also more injuries on the anterior talofibular ligament. The os subfibulare could be secondary to an accessory ossification but the lateral area of the ankle would be likely to be injured.
Strain redistribution and cracking behavior of human bone during bending.	Long bones often fail due to bending loads. Understanding the fracture process during bending is of great importance to the prevention and treatment of bone fractures. In this study, we investigated the origin of long bone's bending strength through the study of the dynamic strain redistribution happening during the post-yield stage of deformation and its relation to microdamage at the microstructural level. This was accomplished by comparing the behaviors of human long bones with standard cortical bone specimens in terms of strain redistribution, Poisson's ratios, microdamage morphologies, and macro-scale fracture patterns. It was found that human tibia failure in bending was very similar to that of standard beam cortical bone specimens with respect to the four previous aspects. Also, the examination of bone's Poisson's ratio indicated very different inelastic deformation mechanisms under tension and compression: bone volume expanded in tension but was nearly conserved in compression. Finally, as a result of strain redistribution, bone's bending strength mainly depended on its compressive strength, which was significantly influenced by the osteonal "porous" microstructure of human bone as compared to its tensile behavior. Thus, we concluded that bone microstructure at the Haversian system level plays an important role in bone deformation and fracture.
The effects of focal articular defects on intra-tissue strains in the surrounding and opposing cartilage.	Focal damage to articular cartilage is commonly found in symptomatic knees and may contribute to patient discomfort and progressive cartilage degeneration. The objective of this study was to quantify changes in cartilage intra-tissue strain and sliding occurring near a focal defect. Pairs of human osteochondral blocks were compressed by 20% of the total cartilage thicknesses, and tissue deformation was recorded by video microscopy. Then, a single, full-thickness defect was created in one block from each pair, blocks were allowed to re-swell, and the pairs were retested. Stained nuclei, acting as fiducial markers, were tracked by digital image correlation and used to calculate cartilage strains and surface displacement. With intact samples, axial strain decreased with depth, as is typical of cartilage, and relatively little sliding occurred between surfaces. With defect samples, axial compression of cartilage at the defect rim rose by approximately 30%, shear in the opposing tissue increased 10-fold to approximately 0.15, and local sliding was elevated to > 50 microm. In vivo, tissue near a defect likely experiences increased overall compression, magnifying these observed in vitro effects. Excessive strains may contribute to cell death, matrix damage, or accelerated wear, and repair efficacy may depend on the ability to alleviate adverse mechanical conditions.
Intra-articular changes precede extra-articular changes in the biceps tendon after rotator cuff tears in a rat model.	Biceps tendon pathology is common with rotator cuff tears. The mechanisms for biceps changes, and therefore its optimal treatment, are unknown. Our objective was to determine the effect of rotator cuff tears on regional biceps tendon pathology. We hypothesized that histologic and compositional changes would appear before organizational changes, both would appear before mechanical changes, and changes would begin at the tendon's insertion site.
The effect of tear size and nerve injury on rotator cuff muscle fatty degeneration in a rodent animal model.	Irreversible muscle changes after rotator cuff tears is a well-known negative prognostic factor after shoulder surgery. Currently, little is known about the pathomechanism of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles after chronic cuff tears. The purposes of this study were to (1) develop a rodent animal model of chronic rotator cuff tears that can reproduce fatty degeneration of the cuff muscles seen clinically, (2) describe the effects of tear size and concomitant nerve injury on muscle degeneration, and (3) evaluate the changes in gene expression of relevant myogenic and adipogenic factors after rotator cuff tears using the animal model.
Correlating MRI findings with disability in syndesmotic sprains of NFL players.	Syndesmotic sprains may be a significant source of missed playing time, especially in football players. Advanced imaging is frequently used to confirm the clinical diagnosis. Our purpose was to evaluate the prognostic ability of MRI in predicting time of disability.
