Proteolytic activity, the carboxy terminus of Gag, and the primer binding site are not required for Pol incorporation into foamy virus particles.	Human foamy virus (HFV) is the prototype member of the spumaviruses. While similar in genomic organization to other complex retroviruses, foamy viruses share several features with their more distant relatives, the hepadnaviruses such as human hepatitis B virus (HBV). Both HFV and HBV express their Pol proteins independently from the structural proteins. However unlike HBV, Pol is not required for assembly of HFV core particles or for packaging of viral RNA. These results suggest that the assembly of Pol into HFV particles must occur by a mechanism different from those used by retroviruses and hepadnaviruses. We have examined possible mechanisms for HFV Pol incorporation, including the role of proteolysis in assembly of Pol and the role of initiation of reverse transcription. We have found that proteolytic activity is not required for Pol incorporation. p4 Gag and the residues immediately upstream of the cleavage site in Gag are also not important. Deletion of the primer binding site had no effect on assembly, ruling out early steps of reverse transcription in the process of Pol incorporation.
Replication-competent hybrids between murine leukemia virus and foamy virus.	Replication-competent chimeric retroviruses constructed of members of the two subfamilies of Retroviridae, orthoretroviruses and spumaretroviruses, specifically murine leukemia viruses (MuLV) bearing hybrid MuLV-foamy virus (FV) envelope (env) genes, were characterized. All viruses had the cytoplasmic tail of the MuLV transmembrane protein. In ESL-1, a truncated MuLV leader peptide (LP) was fused to the complete extracellular portion of FV Env, and ESL-2 to -4 contained the complete MuLV-LP followed by N-terminally truncated FV Env decreasing in size. ESL-1 to -4 had an extended host cell range compared to MuLV, induced a cytopathology reminiscent of FVs, and exhibited an ultrastructure that combined the features of the condensed core of MuLV with the prominent surface knobs of FVs. Replication of ESL-2 to -4 resulted in the acquisition of a stop codon at the N terminus of the chimeric Env proteins. This mutation rendered the MuLV-LP nonfunctional and indicated that the truncated FV-LP was sufficient to direct Env synthesis into the secretory pathway. Compared to the parental viruses, the chimeras replicated with only moderate cell-free titers.
Application of chimeric feline foamy virus-based retroviral vectors for the induction of antiviral immunity in cats.	In order to define the potential and applicability of replication-competent foamy virus-based vaccine vectors, recombinant feline foamy virus (FFV) vectors encoding defined segments of the feline calicivirus (FCV) capsid protein E domain were constructed. In cell cultures, these FFV-FCV vectors efficiently transduced and expressed a hybrid fusion protein consisting of the essential FFV Bet protein and the attached FCV E domains. The stability of the vectors in vitro was inversely correlated to the size of the heterologous insert. The deletion of a part of the FFV U3 sequence in these FFV-FCV vectors did not interfere with replication and titer in cell cultures but increased the genetic stability of the hybrid vectors. Selected chimeric vectors were injected into immunocompetent cats and persisted in the transduced host concomitant with a strong and specific humoral immune response against vector components. In a substantial number of cats, antibodies directed against the FCV E domain were induced by the FFV-FCV vectors, but no FCV-neutralizing activities were detectable in vitro. When the vaccinated cats were challenged with a high-titer FCV dose, sterile immunity was not induced by any of the hybrid FFV-FCV vectors. However, the FFV-FCV vector with a truncated U3 region of the long terminal repeat promoter significantly reduced the duration of FCV shedding after challenge and suppressed the appearance of FCV-specific ulcers. Possible mechanisms contributing to the partial protection will be discussed.
Biphasic DNA synthesis in spumaviruses.	Spumaviruses are complex retroviruses whose replication cycle resembles that of hepadnaviruses, especially by a late-occurring reverse transcription step. The possible existence of an early reverse transcription as observed in other retroviruses was not documented. Using real-time quantitative PCR, we addressed directly the kinetics of DNA synthesis during spumavirus infection. An early phase of viral DNA synthesis developed until 3 h postinfection, followed by a second phase, culminating 10 h postinfection. Both phases were abolished by the reverse transcriptase inhibitor 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine. Similar to other retroviruses, circular forms of viral DNA harboring two long terminal repeats were mainly found in the nucleus of infected cells. Interestingly, a fraction of these circular forms were detected in the cytoplasm and in extracellular virions, a feature shared with hepadnaviruses. Combined with packaging of both viral DNA and RNA genomes in virions, early and late reverse transcription might allow spumavirus to maximize its genome replication.
Expression of human foamy virus is differentially regulated during development in transgenic mice.	The human foamy virus (HFV) is a recently characterized member of the spumavirus family. Although no diseases have been unequivocally associated with HFV infection, expression of HFV regulatory genes in transgenic mice induces a characteristic acute neurodegenerative disease and a myopathy. To better characterize the sequence of events leading to disease, and to gain a better understanding of the underlying pathogenetic mechanisms, we have analyzed in detail the transgene expression pattern during development. Transcription of a construct containing all regulatory elements and ancillary genes of HFV was analyzed by in situ hybridization and was shown to occur in two distinct phases. At midgestation, low but widespread expression was first detected in cells of extraembryonic tissues. Later, various tissues originating from embryonic mesoderm, neuroectoderm, and neural crest transcribed the transgene at moderate levels. However, expression decreased dramatically during late gestation and was suppressed shortly after birth. After a latency period of up to 5 weeks, transcription of the transgene resumed in single cells distributed irregularly in the central nervous system and in the skeletal muscle. By the age of 8 weeks, an increasing number of cells displayed much higher expression levels than in embryonic life and eventually underwent severe degenerative changes. These findings demonstrate that HFV transgene expression is differentially regulated in development and that HFV cytotoxicity may be dose-dependent. Such biphasic pattern of expression differs from that of murine retroviruses and may be explained by the specificity of HFV regulatory elements in combination with cellular factors. Future studies of this model system should, therefore, provide novel insights in the mechanisms controlling retroviral latency.
The Bel-1 protein of human foamy virus activates human immunodeficiency virus type 1 gene expression via a novel DNA target site.	The Bel-1 protein of human foamy virus can activate transcription directed by the long terminal repeat (LTR) promoter of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). The target sequence for Bel-1 is shown to lie within the HIV-1 LTR U3 region but does not coincide with any previously described factor-binding site. Gene expression directed by an HIV-1 LTR lacking functional sites for the inducible cellular transcription factor NF-kappa B was activated over 100-fold by coexpression of Bel-1. These observations suggest that Bel-1 has the potential to significantly enhance the level of HIV-1 gene expression in cells dually infected with HIV-1 and human foamy virus.
Bacterial expression of the capsid antigen domain and identification of native gag proteins in spumavirus-infected cells.	A bacterial expression plasmid containing the central part of the gag gene of the human spumaretrovirus (HSRV) was constructed and expressed in E. coli. The expected protein product consisting of the complete region of the HSRV capsid antigen and part of the matrix protein was expressed in relatively large amounts. Polyclonal antisera raised against this recombinant protein were used to identify authentic gag precursors of 78 and 74 kDa and processed gag proteins of 60, 58, and 33 kDa in HSRV-infected human embryonal fibroblast cells by radioimmunoprecipitation. The recombinant antigen will be useful for the detection of antibodies against HSRV gag proteins in human sera.
Bovine respiratory syncytial virus fusion protein gene: sequence analysis of cDNA and expression using a baculovirus vector.	The nucleotide sequence of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), ATCC strain A51908 fusion (F) glycoprotein gene cDNA was determined. The amino acid sequence deduced was then compared to those of two different isolates of bovine RSV, strains RB 94 and 391-2, and the A and B subtypes of human RSV, strains 18537 and A2. The bovine RSV F protein is highly conserved between the three isolates, A51908 has 97% amino acid identity to RB 94, and 99% identity to 391-2. The F proteins of both the A and B types of human RSV are 81% identical to that of A51908. The cDNA clone was expressed using a baculovirus vector and the expressed recombinant F protein produced in SF9 cells was characterized by Western blot analysis. The recombinant F protein was post-translationally cleaved into the active form and reacted with serum from bovine RSV-infected calves.
Foamy virus--adenovirus hybrid vectors.	To confer adenovirus vectors (AdV), the feature of integration into the host cell genome hybrid vectors were characterized in vitro, which express vectors derived from the prototypic foamy virus (FV) in the backbone of a high-capacity AdV. FVs constitute a subfamily of retroviruses with a distinct replication pathway and no known pathogenicity. In the absence of envelope glycoprotein, the prototypic FV behaves like a retrotransposon, while it behaves like an exogenous retrovirus in its presence. Two principle types of vectors, which either allows the intracellular (HC-FAD-7) or, in addition, the extracellular (HC-FAD-2) pathway were constructed. In both chimeras the expression of the FV vector was controlled by the tetracycline-regulatable system. Hybrids were produced close to 10(10) infectious units/ml. By Southern blotting, the functionality of the hybrid vectors to generate host cell genomic integrants was shown. However, the efficiency of HC-FAD-7 to establish stable transgene expression was rather low, while around 70% of cells were stably transduced in secondary round following primary transduction with HC-FAD-2 at an MOI of 100. Given the benign characteristics of high-capacity adenovirus and FV vectors, hybrids based on HC-FAD-2 are probably suited for an in vivo application.
Special coverage: 11th retroviruses conference. Novel approaches to HIV vaccine are being studied. One possibility is vaccine that slows disease.	Dozens of potential HIV vaccine candidates have been studied, and many of the latest additions include novel strategies to elicit HIV antibodies and cytotoxic T-cells, as well as some that may help slow disease progression. Here's a look at some of the talk at the 11th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections.
Furin-mediated cleavage of the feline foamy virus Env leader protein.	The molecular biology of spuma or foamy retroviruses is different from that of the other members of the Retroviridae. Among the distinguishing features, the N-terminal domain of the foamy virus Env glycoprotein, the 16-kDa Env leader protein Elp, is a component of released, infectious virions and is required for particle budding. The transmembrane protein Elp specifically interacts with N-terminal Gag sequences during morphogenesis. In this study, we investigate the mechanism of Elp release from the Env precursor protein. By a combination of genetic, biochemical, and biophysical methods, we show that the feline foamy virus (FFV) Elp is released by a cellular furin-like protease, most likely furin itself, generating an Elp protein consisting of 127 amino acid residues. The cleavage site fully conforms to the rules for an optimal furin site. Proteolytic processing at the furin cleavage site is required for full infectivity of FFV. However, utilization of other furin proteases and/or cleavage at a suboptimal signal peptidase cleavage site can partially rescue virus viability. In addition, we show that FFV Elp carries an N-linked oligosaccharide that is not conserved among the known foamy viruses.
The antiretroviral activity of APOBEC3 is inhibited by the foamy virus accessory Bet protein.	Genome hypermutation of different orthoretroviruses by cellular cytidine deaminases of the APOBEC3 family during reverse transcription has recently been observed. Lentiviruses like HIV-1 have acquired proteins preventing genome editing in the newly infected cell. Here we show that feline foamy virus (FFV), a typical member of the foamy retrovirus subfamily Spumaretrovirinae, is also refractory to genome deamination. APOBEC3-like FFV genome editing in APOBEC3-positive feline CRFK cells only occurs when the accessory FFV Bet protein is functionally inactivated. Editing of bet-deficient FFV genomes is paralleled by a strong decrease in FFV titer. In contrast to lentiviruses, cytidine deamination already takes place in APOBEC3-positive FFV-producing cells, because edited proviral DNA genomes are consistently present in released particles. By cloning the feline APOBEC3 orthologue, we found that its homology to the second domain of human APOBEC3F is 48%. Expression of feline APOBEC3 in APOBEC3-negative human 293T cells reproduced the effects seen in homologous CRFK cells: Bet-deficient FFV displayed severely reduced titers, high-level genome editing, reduced particle release, and suppressed Gag processing. Although WT Bet efficiently preserved FFV infectivity and genome integrity, it sustained particle release and Gag processing only when fe3 was moderately expressed. Similar to lentiviral Vif proteins, FFV Bet specifically bound feline APOBEC3. In particles from Bet-deficient FFV, feline APOBEC3 was clearly present, whereas its foamy viral antagonist Bet was undetectable in purified WT particles. This is the first report that, in addition to lentiviruses, the foamy viruses also developed APOBEC3-counter-acting proteins.
Analysis and function of prototype foamy virus envelope N glycosylation.	The prototype foamy virus (PFV) glycoprotein, which is essential for PFV particle release, displays a highly unusual biosynthesis, resulting in posttranslational cleavage of the precursor protein into three particle-associated subunits, i.e., leader peptide (LP), surface (SU), and transmembrane (TM). Glycosidase digestion of metabolically labeled PFV particles revealed the presence of N-linked carbohydrates on all subunits. The differential sensitivity to specific glycosidases indicated that all oligosaccharides on LP and TM are of the high-mannose or hybrid type, whereas most of those attached to SU, which contribute to about 50% of its molecular weight, are of the complex type. Individual inactivation of all 15 potential N-glycosylation sites in PFV Env demonstrated that 14 are used, i.e., 1 out of 2 in LP, 10 in SU, and 3 in TM. Analysis of the individual altered glycoproteins revealed defects in intracellular processing, support of particle release, and infectivity for three mutants, having the evolutionarily conserved glycosylation sites N8 in SU or N13 and N15 in the cysteine-rich central "sheets-and-loops" region of TM inactivated. Examination of alternative mutants with mutations affecting glycosylation or surrounding sequences at these sites indicated that inhibition of glycosylation at N8 and N13 most likely is responsible for the observed replication defects, whereas for N15 surrounding sequences seem to contribute to a temperature-sensitive phenotype. Taken together these data demonstrate that PFV Env and in particular the SU subunit are heavily N glycosylated and suggest that although most carbohydrates are dispensable individually, some evolutionarily conserved sites are important for normal Env function of FV isolates from different species.
Foamy-virus-mediated gene transfer to canine repopulating cells.	Foamy virus (FV) vectors are particularly attractive gene-transfer vectors for stem-cell gene therapy because they form a stable transduction intermediate in quiescent cells and can efficiently transduce hematopoietic stem cells. Here, we studied the use of FV vectors to transduce long-term hematopoietic repopulating cells in the dog, a clinically relevant large animal model. Mobilized canine peripheral blood (PB) CD34+ cells were transduced with an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-expressing FV vector in an 18-hour transduction protocol. All 3 dogs studied had rapid neutrophil engraftment to greater than 500/microL with a median of 10 days. Transgene expression was detected in all cell lineages (B cells, T cells, granulocytes, red blood cells, and platelets), indicating multilineage engraftment of transduced cells. Up to 19% of blood cells were EGFP+, and this was confirmed at the DNA level by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Southern blot analysis. These transduction rates were higher than the best results we obtained previously with lentiviral vectors in a similar transduction protocol. Integration site analysis also demonstrated polyclonal repopulation and the transduction of multipotential hematopoietic repopulating cells. These data suggest that FV vectors should be useful for stem-cell gene therapy, particularly for applications in which short transduction protocols are critical.
Construction and characterization of efficient, stable and safe replication-deficient foamy virus vectors.	As serious side effects affected recent virus-mediated gene transfer studies, novel vectors with improved safety profiles are urgently needed. In the present study, replication-deficient retroviral vectors based on feline foamy virus (FFV) were constructed and analyzed. The novel FFV vectors are devoid of almost the complete env gene plus the internal promoter - accessory bel gene cassette including the gene for the viral transcriptional transactivator Bel1/Tas. In these Bel1/Tas-independent vectors, expression of the lacZ (beta-galactosidase) marker gene is directed by the heterologous, constitutively active human ubiquitin C promoter (ubi). Env-transcomplemented vectors have un-concentrated titers of more than 10(5) transducing units/ml. The vectors allow efficient transduction of a broad array of diverse target cells, which can be increased by repeated vector exposure. However, the number of lacZ marker gene expressing cells decreased slightly upon serial passages of the transduced cells. Vectors carrying a self-inactivating (SIN) deletion of the TATA box and most parts of the viral promoter were not rescued by wt FFV whereas those with the intact or a partially deleted promoter were readily reactivated. This finding indicates that the viral promoters are in fact non-functional, pointing to a highly advantageous safety profile of these new FFV-ubi-lacZ-SIN vectors.
Correct capsid assembly mediated by a conserved YXXLGL motif in prototype foamy virus Gag is essential for infectivity and reverse transcription of the viral genome.	Unlike other retrovirus Gag proteins, the prototype foamy virus (PFV) p71(g)(ag) protein is not processed into mature matrix (MA), capsid (CA), and nucleocapsid (NC) subunits. Little information about sequence motifs involved in FV capsid assembly and release is available. The recent analysis of candidate L-domain motifs in PFV Gag identified an evolutionarily conserved YXXL sequence motif with a potential function in capsid assembly. Here we provide support for the hypothesis that this motif does not function like a conventional L domain, by demonstrating that, unlike the PFV Gag PSAP L-domain motif, it cannot be functionally replaced by heterologous L-domain sequences. Furthermore, mutation of individual amino acids Y(464), I(466), L(467), and L(469), but not E(465), to alanine led to reduced particle release and production of noninfectious, aberrant capsid structures, although relative structural protein incorporation and processing were not affected. In contrast, mutation of G(468) to alanine resulted in an intermediate, temperature-sensitive phenotype characterized by reduced particle release and reduced infectivity. Despite similar relative RNA genome incorporation for all mutants, analysis and quantification of particle-associated viral nucleic acids demonstrated defects in genomic reverse transcription for all the noninfectious mutants, a process that, unlike that of orthoretroviruses, in the case of FVs takes place in the virus-producing cell. In correlation with the reduced infectivity, the G(468)A mutant displayed an intermediate level of genomic reverse transcription. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the conserved YXXLGL motif in PFV Gag is involved in correct capsid assembly, which in turn is essential for reverse transcription of the FV genome.
Role of the foamy virus Pol cleavage site in viral replication.	Foamy virus Pol precursor protein processing by the viral protease occurs at only one site, releasing a protease-reverse transcriptase and an integrase protein. To examine whether the cleavage of the Pol precursor protein is necessary for enzymatic activities and efficient viral replication, several mutations were generated around the cleavage site. All cleavage site mutants synthesize wild-type levels of Pol precursor protein. Mutants containing more than two amino acid substitutions around the cleavage site exhibit no detectable Pol processing. The Pol cleavage site is not required for the production of infectious particles in a single round of infection, but is important for subsequent rounds of viral infection. Mutations around the cleavage site affected the enzymatic activities of the protease and reverse transcriptase and prevented replication after two rounds of infection. Interestingly, Pol encapsidation is significantly reduced in some of the mutants.
The transcriptional transactivator of human foamy virus maps to the bel 1 genomic region.	The human foamy virus (HFV) genome possesses three open reading frames (bel 1, 2, and 3) located between env and the 3' long terminal repeat. By analogy to other human retroviruses this region was selected as the most likely candidate to encode the viral transactivator. Results presented here confirmed this and showed further that a deletion introduced only into the bel 1 open reading frame of a plasmid derived from an infectious molecular clone of HFV abolished transactivation. In contrast, deletions in bel 2 and bel 3 had only minor effects on the ability to transactivate. The role of the bel 1 genomic region as a transactivator was further investigated by eukaryotic expression of a genome fragment of HFV spanning the bel 1 open reading frame. A construct expressing bel 1 under control of a heterologous promoter was found to transactivate the HFV long terminal repeat in a dose-dependent fashion. Furthermore, it is shown that the U3 region of the HFV long terminal repeat is sufficient to respond to the HFV transactivator.
Further characterization of the gapped DNA intermediates of human spumavirus: evidence for a dual initiation of plus-strand DNA synthesis.	We recently reported the presence of linear duplex DNA intermediates with a gap in the middle of the molecules in the replicative cycle of human (HSRV) and simian (SFV1) spumaviruses. The polypurine tract (PPT), at the 5' boundary of the 3' long terminal repeat, was found to be duplicated in the gap region. By molecular analysis of HSRV proviral DNA with region- and strand-specific probes, we have now determined that the gap is located on plus-strand DNA and that it is 120 bases long with the 3' end mapping at the duplicated PPT site. Kinetic analysis of proviral DNA provided evidence that the gap did not result from processing of a complete, full-length DNA molecule. These data strongly suggest that plus-strand DNA synthesis is initiated at both PPT sites.
Identification of the simian foamy virus transcriptional transactivator gene (taf).	Simian foamy virus type 1 (SFV-1), a member of spumavirus subfamily of retroviruses, encodes a transcriptional transactivator that functions to strongly augment gene expression directed by the viral long terminal repeat (LTR). The objective of this study was to identify the viral gene responsible for transactivation. Nucleotide sequences between the env gene and the LTR of SFV-1 were determined. The predicted amino acid sequence revealed two large open reading frames (ORFs), designated ORF-1 (311 amino acids) and ORF-2 (422 amino acids). In the corresponding region of the human foamy virus, three ORFs (bel-1, bel-2, and bel-3) have been identified (R. M. Flugel, A. Rethwilm, B. Maurer, and G. Darai, EMBO J. 6:2077-2084, 1987). Pairwise comparisons of the ORF-1 and ORF-2 with bel-1 and bel-2 show small clusters of homology; less than 39% overall homology of conserved amino acids is observed. A counterpart for human foamy virus bel-3 is not present in the SFV-1 sequence. Three species of viral RNA have been identified in cells infected with SFV-1; an 11.5-kb RNA representing full-length transcripts, a 6.5-kb RNA representing the env message, and a 2.8-kb RNA from the ORF region. Analysis of a cDNA clone encoding the ORF region of SFV-1 reveals that the 2.8-kb message is generated by complex splicing events involving the 3' end of the env gene. In transient expression assays in cell lines representing several species. ORF-1 was shown to be necessary and sufficient for transactivating viral gene expression directed by the SFV-1 LTR. The target for transactivation is located in the U3 domain of the LTR, upstream from position - 125 (+ 1 represents the transcription initiation site). We propose that OFF-1 of SFV-1 be designated the transcriptional transactivator of foamy virus (taf).
Novel functions of prototype foamy virus Gag glycine- arginine-rich boxes in reverse transcription and particle morphogenesis.	Prototype foamy virus (PFV) Gag lacks the characteristic orthoretroviral Cys-His motifs that are essential for various steps of the orthoretroviral replication cycle, such as RNA packaging, reverse transcription, infectivity, integration, and viral assembly. Instead, it contains three glycine-arginine-rich boxes (GR boxes) in its C terminus that putatively represent a functional equivalent. We used a four-plasmid replication-deficient PFV vector system, with uncoupled RNA genome packaging and structural protein translation, to analyze the effects of deletion and various substitution mutations within each GR box on particle release, particle-associated protein composition, RNA packaging, DNA content, infectivity, particle morphology, and intracellular localization. The degree of viral particle release by all mutants was similar to that of the wild type. Only minimal effects on Pol encapsidation, exogenous reverse transcriptase (RT) activity, and genomic viral RNA packaging were observed. In contrast, particle-associated DNA content and infectivity were drastically reduced for all deletion mutants and were undetectable for all alanine substitution mutants. Furthermore, GR box I mutants had significant changes in particle morphology, and GR box II mutants lacked the typical nuclear localization pattern of PFV Gag. Finally, it could be shown that GR boxes I and III, but not GR box II, can functionally complement each other. It therefore appears that, similar to the orthoretroviral Cys-His motifs, the PFV Gag GR boxes are important for RNA encapsidation, genome reverse transcription, and virion infectivity as well as for particle morphogenesis.
Foamy virus vector-mediated gene correction of a mouse model of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is an X-linked disorder characterized by eczema, thrombocytopenia and immunodeficiency. Hematopoietic cell transplantation can cure the disease and gene therapy is being tested as an alternative treatment option. In this study, we assessed the use of foamy virus (FV) vectors as a gene transfer system for WAS, using a Was knockout (KO) mouse model. Preliminary experiments using FV vectors expressing the green fluorescent protein under the transcriptional control of the endogenous WAS promoter or a ubiquitously acting chromatin opening element allowed us to define transduction conditions resulting in high (>40%) and long-term in-vivo marking of blood cells after transplantation. In following experiments, Was KO mice were treated with FV vectors containing the human WAS complementary DNA (cDNA). Transplanted animals expressed the WAS protein (WASp) in T and B lymphocytes, as well as platelets and showed restoration of both T-cell receptor-mediated responses and B-cell migration. We also observed recovery of platelet adhesion and podosome formation in dendritic cells (DCs) of treated mice. These data demonstrate that FV vectors can be effective for hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)-directed gene correction of WAS.
Retroviral integrase proteins and HIV-1 DNA integration.	Retroviral integrases catalyze two reactions, 3'-processing of viral DNA ends, followed by integration of the processed ends into chromosomal DNA. X-ray crystal structures of integrase-DNA complexes from prototype foamy virus, a member of the Spumavirus genus of Retroviridae, have revealed the structural basis of integration and how clinically relevant integrase strand transfer inhibitors work. Underscoring the translational potential of targeting virus-host interactions, small molecules that bind at the host factor lens epithelium-derived growth factor/p75-binding site on HIV-1 integrase promote dimerization and inhibit integrase-viral DNA assembly and catalysis. Here, we review recent advances in our knowledge of HIV-1 DNA integration, as well as future research directions.
Lack of genotoxicity due to foamy virus vector integration in human iPSCs.	Integrating vectors can lead to the dysregulation of nearby chromosomal genes, with important consequences for clinical trials and cellular engineering. This includes the retroviral and lentiviral vectors commonly used for deriving induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). We previously used integrating foamy virus (FV) vectors expressing OCT4, SOX2, MYC and KLF4 to reprogram osteogenesis imperfecta mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Here, we have studied the effects of 10 FV vector proviruses on neighboring gene expression in four iPSC lines and their corresponding iPSC-derived MSC (iMSCs). Gene expression profiles in these iPSC lines showed that none of the 38 genes within 300 kb up- or downstream of integrated proviruses had a significant difference in mRNA levels, including five genes with proviruses in their transcription units. In the iMSCs derived from these iPSCs, the same type of analysis showed a single dysregulated transcript out of 46 genes found near proviruses. This frequency of dysregulation was similar to that of genes lacking nearby proviruses, so it may have been due to interclonal variation and/or measurement inaccuracies. While the number of integration sites examined in this paper is limited, our results suggest that integrated FV proviruses do not impact the expression of chromosomal genes in pluripotent human stem cells or their differentiated derivatives. This interpretation is consistent with previous reports that FV vectors have minimal genotoxicity, even when integrating near or within genes. 
Construction and characterisation of replicating foamy viral vectors expressing HIV-1 epitopes recognised by broadly neutralising antibodies.	With the aim to develop a replicating vector system for the delivery of HIV-1 antigens on the basis of an apathogenic foamy virus we recently showed that immunisation with purified recombinant hybrid antigens composed of the feline foamy virus Bet protein and parts of the transmembrane envelope protein of HIV-1 induced antibodies with an epitope specificity identical to that of the broadly neutralising antibody 2F5 (Mühle et al., Immunol Res., 2013, 56:61-72). Here we set out to further improve the HIV-1 inserts consisting of the membrane proximal external region (MPER) and the fusion peptide proximal region (FPPR) by stepwise shortening distinct linker residues between both domains. In a subset of these antigens, enhanced recognition by 2F5 and 4E10 was observed, indicating that a specific positioning of FPPR and MPER domains is critical for improved antibody binding. Introduction of these optimised inserts as well as of the MPER domain alone into the feline foamy virus backbone was compatible with virus replication, giving viral titres similar to wild-type virus after extended passaging. Most importantly, expression of the HIV-1 transgenes in infected feline CRFK cells remained stable in three out of four constructs and was detectable after serial passages for several weeks. These data encourage further testing of these vectors in vivo, which may allow insights into the necessity of affinity maturation for the induction of broadly reactive HIV-1 antibodies. 
Characterization of a full-length infectious clone of bovine foamy virus 3026.	The biological features of most foamy viruses (FVs) are poorly understood, including bovine foamy virus (BFV). BFV strain 3026 (BFV3026) was isolated from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of an infected cow in Zhangjiakou, China. A full-length genomic clone of BFV3026 was obtained from BFV3026-infected cells, and it exhibited more than 99% amino acid (AA) homology to another BFV strain isolated in the USA. Upon transfection into fetal canine thymus cells, the full-length BFV3026 clone produced viral structural and auxiliary proteins, typical cytopathic effects, and virus particles. These results demonstrate that the full-length BFV3026 clone is fully infectious and can be used in further BFV3026 research. 
Neurotoxicity of human foamy virus in transgenic mice]	Human foamy virus (HFV) is a human retrovirus originally isolated from patients with various neoplastic and degenerative diseases. Similarly to other human retroviruses, HFV encodes the three structural retroviral genes, gag, pol and env, and an additional region containing three open reading frames, bel-1 to bel-3. Bel-1 activates transcription of the long terminal repeat of HFV and also of HIV. Until today it has not been possible to identify HFV as the causative agent of any disease. In order to identify a possible pathogenic potential of HFV, we have introduced parts of the HFV genome into the germ line of mice. Our studies with transgenic mice have shown that HFV transgenes encompassing the bel region are transiently transcribed between midgestation and birth at moderate levels in various tissues. Expression is then suppressed, but resumes after a latency of several weeks in a restricted range of tissues and accumulate extensively in single cells. This is associated with a progressive degenerative disease of the central nervous system and of striated muscle. These findings provide the first evidence of a disease induced by HFV and suggest that HFV might also act as a human pathogen in neurological diseases. Moreover, the transgenic mouse model will be useful for studying the molecular basis of HFV-induced neurotoxicity, the role of individual disease-associated HFV genes, and the regulation of retroviral latency.
Internal transcriptional regulatory elements in HIV-1 and other retroviruses.	The transcriptional regulation of retroviruses plays an important role in their pathogenesis. Cis-acting elements have been identified in the long terminal repeat (LTR) at the 5' extremity of the integrated provirus. These elements determine the rate and the site of transcription initiation and consist of arrays of binding sites for transcription factors. Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of additional regulatory elements, located outside of the LTR, within the transcribed region of several retroviruses including avian and murine retroviruses, HIV-1, HTLV-1 and the human spumaretroviruses. This review describes these new observations and analyzes their significance both in terms of retroviral transcriptional regulation and in terms of pathogenesis.
Differential effects of ras and jun family members on complex retrovirus promoter activities.	Infection by complex retroviruses such as Visna-maedi, HIV1, HTLV-I and HFV is generally not followed by particle production, but rather by a more or less prolonged latency period. Knowledge of the mechanisms triggering an infectious cycle from the latent provirus(es) is of great importance in comprehending the appearance of the disease. It is currently admitted that cellular factors regulate viral expression. In this paper, we report the ability of ras, c-jun, jun-B and jun-D to diversely stimulate the LTR promoter activity of these retroviruses. Transient transfection assays using a luciferase reporter gene linked to LTR show that the Visna-maedi virus LTR, despite high intrinsic activity, is stimulated by Ha-ras and c-jun. The HTLV-I and HIV1 LTR were identically stimulated by ras, but differently by c-jun. In contrast, jun-B and jun-D were weaker activators, since they respectively stimulated only HTLV-I LTR and HIV1 LTR. HFV LTR remains unresponsive to either of these factors.
Analysis of the 5' long terminal repeat of bovine syncytial virus.	Four molecular clones of the bovine syncytial virus (BSV) were determined to be replication competent by the initiation of cytopathic infections and production of viable virus following transfection of viral DNA into permissive cells. The nucleotide (nt) sequence of the 5' long terminal repeat (LTR) of the infectious clone, BSV-11, was determined and analyzed to identify regions common to retroviral LTRs and elements with the potential for involvement in transcriptional regulation.
Importance of basic residues in the nucleocapsid sequence for retrovirus Gag assembly and complementation rescue.	The Gag proteins of Rous sarcoma virus (RSV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) contain small interaction (I) domains within their nucleocapsid (NC) sequences. These overlap the zinc finger motifs and function to provide the proper density to viral particles. There are two zinc fingers and at least two I domains within these Gag proteins. To more thoroughly characterize the important sequence features and properties of I domains, we analyzed Gag proteins that contain one or no zinc finger motifs. Chimeric proteins containing the amino-terminal half of RSV Gag and various portions of the carboxy terminus of murine leukemia virus (MLV) (containing one zinc finger) Gag had only one I domain, whereas similar chimeras with human foamy virus (HFV) (containing no zinc fingers) Gag had at least two. Mutational analysis of the MLV NC sequence and inspection of I domain sequences within the zinc-fingerless C terminus of HFV Gag suggested that clusters of basic residues, but not the zinc finger motif residues themselves, are required for the formation of particles of proper density. In support of this, a simple string of strongly basic residues was found to be able to substitute for the RSV I domains. We also explored the possibility that differences in I domains (e.g., their number) account for differences in the ability of Gag proteins to be rescued into particles when they are unable to bind to membranes. Previously published experiments have shown that such membrane-binding mutants of RSV and HIV (two I domains) can be rescued but that those of MLV (one I domain) cannot. Complementation rescue experiments with RSV-MLV chimeras now map this difference to the NC sequence of MLV. Importantly, the same RSV-MLV chimeras could be rescued by complementation when the block to budding was after, rather than before, transport to the membrane. These results suggest that MLV Gag molecules begin to interact at a much later time after synthesis than those of RSV and HIV.
Helper-free foamy virus vectors.	Retroviral vectors based on human foamy virus (HFV) have been developed and show promise as gene therapy vehicles. Here we describe a method for the production of HFV vector stocks free of detectable helper virus. The helper and vector plasmid constructs used both lack the HFV bel genes, so recombination between these constructs cannot create a wild-type virus. A fusion promoter that combines portions of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate-early and HFV long terminal repeat (LTR) promoters was used to drive expression of both the helper and vector constructs. The CMV-LTR fusion promoter allows for HFV vector production in the absence of the Bel-1 trans-activator protein, which would otherwise be necessary for efficient transcription from the HFV LTR. Vector stocks containing either neomycin phosphotransferase or alkaline phosphatase reporter genes were produced by transient transfection at titers greater than 10(5) transducing units/ml. G418-resistant BHK-21 cells obtained by transduction with neo vectors contained randomly integrated HFV vector proviruses without detectable deletions or rearrangements. The vector stocks generated were free of replication-competent retrovirus (RCR), as determined by assays for LTR trans-activation and a marker rescue assay developed here for the detection of Bel-independent RCR.
