Possible involvement of a novel STAM-associated molecule "AMSH" in intracellular signal transduction mediated by cytokines.	STAM containing an SH3 (Src homology 3) domain and an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif was previously revealed to be implicated in signaling pathways immediately downstream of Jak2 and Jak3 tyrosine kinases associated with cytokine receptors. We molecularly cloned a novel molecule interacting with the SH3 domain of STAM, which was named AMSH (associated molecule with the SH3 domain of STAM). AMSH contains a putative bipartite nuclear localization signal and a homologous region of a c-Jun activation domain-binding protein 1 (JAB1) subdomain in addition to a binding site for the SH3 domain of STAM. AMSH mutant deleted of the C-terminal half conferred dominant negative effects on signaling for DNA synthesis and c-myc induction mediated by interleukin 2 and granulocyte macrophage-colony-stimulating factor. These results suggest that AMSH plays a critical role in the cytokine-mediated intracellular signal transduction downstream of the Jak2/Jak3.STAM complex.
In vivo analysis of the domains of yeast Rvs167p suggests Rvs167p function is mediated through multiple protein interactions.	Morphological changes during cell division in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae are controlled by cell-cycle regulators. The Pcl-Pho85p kinase complex has been implicated in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton at least in part through Rvs167p. Rvs167p consists of three domains called BAR, GPA, and SH3. Using a two-hybrid assay, we demonstrated that each region of Rvs167p participates in protein-protein interactions: the BAR domain bound the BAR domain of another Rvs167p protein and that of Rvs161p, the GPA region bound Pcl2p, and the SH3 domain bound Abp1p. We identified Rvs167p as a Las17p/Bee1p-interacting protein in a two-hybrid screen and showed that Las17p/Bee1p bound the SH3 domain of Rvs167p. We tested the extent to which the Rvs167p protein domains rescued phenotypes associated with deletion of RVS167: salt sensitivity, random budding, and endocytosis and sporulation defects. The BAR domain was sufficient for full or partial rescue of all rvs167 mutant phenotypes tested but not required for the sporulation defect for which the SH3 domain was also sufficient. Overexpression of Rvs167p inhibits cell growth. The BAR domain was essential for this inhibition and the SH3 domain had only a minor effect. Rvs167p may link the cell cycle regulator Pcl-Pho85p kinase and the actin cytoskeleton. We propose that Rvs167p is activated by phosphorylation in its GPA region by the Pcl-Pho85p kinase. Upon activation, Rvs167p enters a multiprotein complex, making critical contacts in its BAR domain and redundant or minor contacts with its SH3 domain.
p73 is regulated by tyrosine kinase c-Abl in the apoptotic response to DNA damage.	The protein p73 is a structural and functional homologue of the p53 tumour-suppressor protein but, unlike p53, it is not induced in response to DNA damage. The tyrosine kinase c-Abl is activated by certain DNA-damaging agents and contributes to the induction of programmed cell death (apoptosis) by p53-dependent and p53-independent mechanisms. Here we show that c-Abl binds to p73 in cells, interacting through its SH3 domain with the carboxy-terminal homo-oligomerization domain of p73. c-Abl phosphorylates p73 on a tyrosine residue at position 99 both in vitro and in cells that have been exposed to ionizing radiation. Our results show that c-Abl stimulates p73-mediated transactivation and apoptosis. This regulation of p73 by c-Abl in response to DNA damage is also demonstrated by a failure of ionizing-radiation-induced apoptosis after disruption of the c-Abl-p73 interaction. These findings show that p73 is regulated by a c-Abl-dependent mechanism and that p73 participates in the apoptotic response to DNA damage.
Pleckstrin homology domains interact with filamentous actin.	A fraction of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) co-localizes with actin fibers upon stimulation of mast cells via the high affinity IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI). In this study, a molecular basis of the Btk co-localization with actin fibers is presented. Btk and other Tec family tyrosine kinases have a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain at their N termini. The PH domain is a short peptide module frequently found in signal-transducing proteins and cytoskeletal proteins. Filamentous actin (F-actin) is shown to be a novel ligand for a subset of PH domains, including that of Btk. The actin-binding site was mapped to a 10-residue region of the N-terminal region of Btk. Basic residues in this short stretch are demonstrated to be involved in actin binding. Isolated PH domains induced actin filament bundle formation. Consistent with these observations, Btk binds F-actin in vitro and in vivo. Wild-type Btk protein is in part translocated to the cytoskeleton upon FcepsilonRI cross-linking, whereas Btk containing a mutated PH domain is not. Phosphatidylinositol 3,4, 5-trisphosphate-mediated membrane translocation of Btk was enhanced in cytochalasin D-pretreated, FcepsilonRI-stimulated mast cells. These data indicate that PH domain-mediated F-actin binding plays a role in Btk co-localization with actin filaments.
Membrane-targeting of signalling molecules by SH2/SH3 domain-containing adaptor proteins.	SH2/SH3 domain-containing adaptor proteins play a critical role in regulating tyrosine kinase signalling pathways. The major function of these adaptors, such as Grb2, Nck, and Crk, is to recruit proline-rich effector molecules to tyrosine-phosphorylated kinases or their substrates. In recent years dozens of novel proteins have emerged that are capable of associating with the SH2 and the SH3 domains of adaptors. In this review, the author attempts to summarise these novel binding partners of Grb2, Nck, and Crk, and to discuss current controversies regarding function and regulation of protein multicomplexes held together by SH2/SH3 adaptor molecules at the plasma membrane.
Activation of Vav by Nef induces cytoskeletal rearrangements and downstream effector functions.	Nef of primate lentiviruses is critical for high levels of viremia and the progression to AIDS. Nef associates with and activates a serine/threonine kinase (Nef-associated kinase [NAK]) via the small GTPases Rac1 and Cdc42. We identified the protooncogene and guanine nucleotide exchange factor Vav as the specific binding partner of Nef proteins from HIV-1 and SIV. The interaction between Nef and Vav led to increased activity of Vav and its downstream effectors. Both cytoskeletal changes and the activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) were observed. Furthermore, a dominant-negative Vav protein inhibited NAK activation and viral replication. Thus, the interaction between Nef and Vav initiates a signaling cascade that changes structural and physiological parameters in the infected cell.
Structure-based design, synthesis, and X-ray crystallography of a high-affinity antagonist of the Grb2-SH2 domain containing an asparagine mimetic.	Previous efforts in the search for molecules capable of blocking the associations between the activated tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors and the SH2 domain of Grb2 had resulted in the identification of 3-amino-Z-pTyr-Ac6c-Asn-NH2, a high-affinity and selective antagonist of this SH2 domain. In the present paper, we report the successful replacement of asparagine in this compound by a beta-amino acid mimetic, which brings us closer to our objective of identifying a Grb2-SH2 antagonist suitable for pharmacological investigations.
Mutations in the N-terminal regulatory region reduce the catalytic activity of Csk, but do not affect its recognition of Src.	In addition to the C-terminal catalytic domain, Csk is a protein tyrosine kinase that has an N-terminal regulatory region that contains SH3 and SH2 domains. The role this region plays relative to the function of the catalytic domain is not clear. To study its role, we introduced either deletion or site-specific mutations within this region and analyzed the effect of such mutations on the catalytic activity of Csk and its ability to phosphorylate/inactivate Src protein tyrosine kinase, its physiological substrate in the cell. Deletion of the SH3 domain and the SH2 domain resulted in reductions of kinase activity by 70 and 96%, respectively. Mutations within the SH2 domain that abolished its ability to bind phosphotyrosine did not result in a significant loss of kinase activity. Mutation of Ser78 to Asp, located between the SH3 and the SH2 domains, resulted in a reduction of over 90% of the catalytic activity. The reduction in specific activity is not the result of any apparent physical instability of the mutants. Kinetic analyses indicate that the mutations did not affect the Km values for ATP-Mg or the polypeptide substrate. The ability of the mutants to phosphorylate and inactivate Src is directly correlated to their kinase activity. These results indicate that the regulatory region is important in optimizing the kinase activity of the catalytic domain, but apparently plays no direct or specific role in substrate recognition.
Molecular and cellular analysis of Grb2 SH3 domain mutants: interaction with Sos and dynamin.	Quantitative analysis of Grb2/dynamin interaction through plasmon resonance analysis (BIAcore) using Grb2 mutants showed that the high affinity measured between Grb2 and dynamin is essentially mediated by the N-SH3 domain of Grb2. In order to study the interactions between Grb2 and either dynamin or Sos in more detail, Grb2 N-SH3 domains containing different mutations have been analysed. Two mutations were located on the hydrophobic platform binding proline-rich peptides (Y7V and P49L) and one (E40T) located in a region that we had previously shown to be essential for Grb2/dynamin interactions. Through NMR analysis, we have clearly demonstrated that the structure of the P49L mutant is not folded, while the other E40T and Y7V mutants adopt folded structures that are quite similar to that described for the reference domain. Nevertheless, these point mutations were shown to alter the overall stability of these domains by inducing an equilibrium between a folded and an unfolded form. The complex formed between the peptide VPPPVPPRRR, derived from Sos, and the E40T mutant was shown to have the same 3D structure as that described for the wild-type SH3 domain. However, the VPPPVPPRRR peptide adopts a slightly different orientation when it is complexed with the Y7V mutant. Finally, the affinity of the proline-rich peptide GPPPQVPSRPNR, derived from dynamin, for the Grb2 N-SH3 domain was too low to be analyzed by NMR. Thus, the interaction between either Sos or dynamin and the SH3 mutants were tested on a cellular homogenate by means of a far-Western blot analysis. In these conditions, the P49L mutant was shown to be devoid of affinity for Sos as well as for dynamin. The Y7V SH3 mutant displayed a decrease of affinity for both Sos and dynamin, while the E40T mutant exhibited a decrease of affinity only for dynamin. These results support the existence of two binding sites between dynamin and the Grb2 N-SH3 domain.
Enhancement of tyrosyl phosphorylation and protein expression of eps8 by v-Src.	Two eps8 isoforms, p97eps8 and p68eps8, were previously identified as substrates for receptor tyrosine kinases. Analysis of eps8 phosphotyrosine content in v-Src transformed cells (IV5) revealed that both isoforms were highly tyrosyl phosphorylated and their readiness to be phosphorylated by Src in vitro further indicated that they were putative Src substrates as well. Indeed, the enhancement of tyrosyl phosphorylation of p97eps8 detected in cells coexpressing both p97eps8 and active Src relative to that in cells expressing p97eps8 alone supported our hypothesis. The existence of common phosphotryptic peptides between in vitro 32P-labeled p97eps8 and p68eps8 indicated that these two proteins shared the same Src-mediated sites. Further in vitro binding assays demonstrated that p68eps8 was the major eps8 isoforms that could be precipitated by bacterial fusion protein containing Src SH3. Interestingly, both p68eps8 and p97eps8 were preferentially expressed in v-Src transformed cells and the presence of p68eps8 appeared to depend on Src. Since p97eps8 has been implicated in mitogenesis and tumorigenesis, its readiness to be phosphorylated and induced by v-Src might attribute to v-Src-mediated transformation.
Potent inhibitory ligands of the GRB2 SH2 domain from recombinant peptide libraries.	We cloned and expressed the SH2 domain of human GRB2 as glutathione S-transferase and maltose binding protein fusion proteins. We screened three phagemid-based fd pVIII-protein phage display libraries against SH2 domain fusion proteins. Sequence analysis of the peptide extensions yielded a variety of related peptides. By examining the ability of the phage clones to bind other SH2 domains, we demonstrated that the phage were specific for the SH2 domain of GRB2. Based on the sequence motif identified in the "random" library screening experiment, we also built and screened a phage display library based on a Tyr-X-Asn motif (X5-Tyr-X-Asn-X8). To examine the affinity of the phage derived peptides for GRB2, we set up a radioligand competition binding assay based on immobilized GRB2 and radiolabelled autophosphorylated EGFR ICD as the radioligand. Results obtained with peptide competitors derived from the phage sequences demonstrated that nonphosphotyrosine-containing peptides identified with the phage display technology had an affinity for the receptor similar to tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides derived from the EGFR natural substrate. Interestingly, when the phage display peptides were then phosphorylated on tyrosine, their affinity for GRB2 increased dramatically. We also demonstrated the ability of the peptides to block the binding of the GRB2 SH2 domain to EGFR in a mammalian cell-based binding assay.
Actinomycin D as a novel SH2 domain ligand inhibits Shc/Grb2 interaction in B104-1-1 (neu*-transformed NIH3T3) and SAA (hEGFR-overexpressed NIH3T3) cells.	Actinomycins, a family of bicyclic chromopeptide lactones with strong antineoplastic activity, were screened as inhibitors of Shc/Grb2 interaction in in vitro assay systems. To investigate the effects of actinomycin D on Shc/Grb2 interaction in cell-based experiments, we used SAA (normal hEGFR-overexpressed NIH3T3) cells and B104-1-1 (neu*-transformed NIH3T3) cells, because a large number of the Shc/Grb2 complexes were detected. Associated protein complexes containing Shc were immunoprecipitated from actinomycin D-treated cell lysates with polyclonal anti-Shc antibody. Then the association with Grb2 was assessed by immunoblotting with monoclonal anti-Grb2 antibody. The result of the immunoblotting experiment revealed that actinomycin D inhibited Shc/Grb2 interaction in a dose-dependent manner in both B104-1-1 and EGF-stimulated SAA cells. The inhibition of Shc/Grb2 interaction by actinomycin D in B104-1-1 cells also reduced tyrosine phosphorylation of MAP kinase (Erk1/Erk2), one of the major components in the Ras-MAP kinase signaling pathway. These results suggest that actinomycin D could be a non-phosphorylated natural and cellular membrane-permeable SH2 domain antagonist.
The GYF domain is a novel structural fold that is involved in lymphoid signaling through proline-rich sequences.	T cell activation through the CD2 cell surface receptor is transmitted by proline-rich sequences within its cytoplasmic tail. A membrane-proximal proline-rich tandem repeat, involved in cytokine production, is recognized by the intracellular CD2 binding protein CD2BP2. We solved the solution structure of the CD2 binding domain of CD2BP2, which we name the glycine-tyrosine-phenylalanine (GYF) domain. The GYF sequence is part of a structurally unique bulge-helix-bulge motif that constitutes the major binding site for the CD2 tail. A hydrophobic surface patch is created by motif residues that are highly conserved among a variety of proteins from diverse eukaryotic species. Thus, the architecture of the GYF domain may be widely used in protein-protein associations.
Structure of EVH1, a novel proline-rich ligand-binding module involved in cytoskeletal dynamics and neural function.	The Ena-VASP homology (EVH1) domain is a protein interaction module found in several proteins that are involved in transducing migratory and morphological signals into cytoskeletal reorganization. EVH1 specifically recognizes proline-rich sequences in its binding partners and directs the localization and formation of multicomponent assemblies involved in actin-based motile processes and neural development. The structure of the complex between an EVH1 domain and the target peptide sequence EFPPPPT identifies the interactions responsible for recognition and distinguishes it from other proline-rich binding modules, including SH3 and WW domains. Surprisingly, the EVH1 domain has structural similarity to pleckstrin homology (PH), phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) and ran-binding (RanBD) domains.
Pharbin, a novel inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase, induces dendritic appearances in fibroblasts.	We have cloned a cDNA encoding a novel protein pharbin with a homology to inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatases. Pharbin contains relatively well-conserved catalytic motifs for 5-phosphatase, a proline-rich sequence corresponding to the SH3-binding motif, and a sequence consistent with the CaaX motif at the C-terminus. COS-7 cells transfected with pharbin exhibited elevated hydrolytic activity on the 5-phosphate group of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, and phosphatidylinositol 4, 5-bisphosphate. Thus, pharbin indeed serves as an inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase. When pharbin was transfected to C3H/10T1/2 fibroblasts, it was located to the plasma membrane-associated structures including membrane ruffles. The cells were converted to dendritic forms within 24 h. The protein with deleted or point-mutated CaaX motif hardly induced the dendritic forms but remained associated with the membranes. These results imply that the CaaX motif is required for the morphological alteration but that some other structural element is likely to also be responsible for the membrane localization.
Tyrosine phosphorylation enhances the SH2 domain-binding activity of Bcr and inhibits Bcr interaction with 14-3-3 proteins.	The cellular Bcr protein consists of an N-terminal serine/threonine kinase domain, a central guanine nucleotide exchange factor homology region and a C-terminal GTPase-activating protein domain. Previous work in our laboratory established that Bcr is a major transformation-related substrate for the v-Fps tyrosine kinase, and tyrosine phosphorylation of Bcr induces Bcr-Grb-2/SOS association in vivo through the Src homology 2 (SH2) domain of Grb-2. In the present study, we mapped the region of Bcr tyrosine phosphorylation by c-Fes, the human homologue of v-Fps, to Bcr N-terminal amino acids 162-413 by using a baculovirus/Sf-9 cell co-expression system. Tyrosine phosphorylation of Bcr by Fes greatly enhanced the binding of Bcr to the SH2 domains of multiple signalling molecules in vitro, including Grb-2, Ras GTPase activating protein, phospholipase C-gamma, the 85,000 M(r) subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase, and the Abl tyrosine kinase. In contrast with SH2 binding, tyrosine phosphorylation of Bcr reduced its ability to associate with the 14-3-3 protein Bap-1 (Bcr-associated protein-1), a Bcr substrate and member of a family of phosphoserine-binding adaptor proteins. These experiments provide in vitro evidence that tyrosine phosphorylation may modulate the interaction of Bcr with multiple growth-regulatory signalling pathways.
Role of PTP-1B in aortic smooth muscle cell motility and tyrosine phosphorylation of focal adhesion proteins.	Recent studies have focused attention on the role of protein tyrosine kinases in vascular smooth muscle cell biology, but similar information regarding protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTP) is sparse. PTP-1B is a ubiquitous nonreceptor phosphatase with uncertain function and substrates that are mostly unidentified. We used antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) against PTP-1B to investigate the role of endogenous PTP-1B in motility of primary cultures of rat aortic smooth muscle cells (RASMC). Antisense ODN decreased PTP-1B protein levels and activity in a concentration-dependent fashion, whereas sense, scrambled, or three-base mismatch antisense ODN had little or no effect. Treatment of cells with antisense ODN, but not sense, scrambled, or three-base mismatch antisense ODN, enhanced cell motility and increased tyrosine phosphorylation levels of focal adhesion proteins paxillin, p130(cas), and focal adhesion kinase. Our findings indicate that PTP-1B is a negative regulator of RASMC motility via modulation of phosphotyrosine levels in several focal adhesion proteins and suggest the involvement of PTP-1B in events such as atherosclerosis and restenosis, which are associated with increased vascular smooth muscle cell motility.
Fiz1, a novel zinc finger protein interacting with the receptor tyrosine kinase Flt3.	The receptor tyrosine kinase Flt3 has been shown to play a role in proliferation and survival of hematopoietic progenitor cells as well as differentiation of early B lymphoid progenitors. However, the signaling events that control growth or differentiation are not completely understood. In order to identify new signaling molecules interacting with the cytoplasmic domain of Flt3, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen. In addition to several SH2 domain-containing proteins, we have isolated a novel Flt3 interacting zinc finger protein (Fiz1) with 11 C(2)H(2)-type zinc fingers. Fiz1 binds to the catalytic domain of Flt3 but not to the structurally related receptor tyrosine kinases Kit, Fms, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor. This association is independent of kinase activity. The interaction between Flt3 and Fiz1 detected in yeast was confirmed by in vitro and in vivo coprecipitation assays. Fiz1 mRNA is expressed in all murine cell lines and tissues tested. Anti-Fiz1 antibodies recognize a 60-kDa protein, which is localized in the nucleus as well as in the cytoplasm. Together, these results identified a novel class of interaction between a receptor tyrosine kinase and a signaling molecule which is independent of the well established SH2 domain/phosphotyrosine binding.
Gbetagamma-mediated regulation of Golgi organization is through the direct activation of protein kinase D.	We have shown previously that the betagamma subunits of the heterotrimeric G proteins regulate the organization of the pericentriolarly localized Golgi stacks. In this report, evidence is presented that the downstream target of Gbetagamma is protein kinase D (PKD), an isoform of protein kinase C. PKD, unlike other members of this class of serine/threonine kinases, contains a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Our results demonstrate that Gbetagamma directly activates PKD by interacting with its PH domain. Inhibition of PKD activity through the use of pharmacological agents, synthetic peptide substrates, and, more specifically, the PH domain of PKD prevents Gbetagamma-mediated Golgi breakdown. Our findings suggest a possible mechanism by which the direct interaction of Gbetagamma with PKD regulates the dynamics of Golgi membranes and protein secretion.
Deletion of a proline-rich region and a transmembrane domain in fatty acid amide hydrolase.	Fatty acid amide hydrolase contains a proline-rich sequence matching a consensus sequence for SH3-binding domains as well as a transmembrane domain. In this study, deletion mutants lacking the proline-rich region and the transmembrane domain were generated. Transfection experiments demonstrated that the proline-rich deleted amidase was enzymatically inactive. While immunostaining of the wild-type was always punctate with strong perinuclear staining characteristic for endoplasmic reticulum, the staining of the mutant was diffuse and distributed throughout the cytoplasm and perinuclear region. These observations along with the loss of activity suggest that the proline-rich region may play a role in the subcellular localization and enzymatic function. The transmembrane domain-deleted mutant was indistinguishable from the wild-type enzyme.
The native state conformational ensemble of the SH3 domain from alpha-spectrin.	The folding/unfolding equilibrium of the alpha-spectrin SH3 domain has been measured by NMR-detected hydrogen/deuterium exchange and by differential scanning calorimetry. Protection factors against exchange have been obtained under native conditions for more than half of the residues in the domain. Most protected residues are located at the beta-strands, the short 3(10) helix, and part of the long RT loop, whereas the loops connecting secondary structure elements show no measurable protection. Apparent stability constants per residue and their corresponding Gibbs energies have been calculated from the exchange experiments. The most stable region of the SH3 domain is defined by the central portions of the beta-strands. The peptide binding region, on the other hand, is composed of a highly stable region (residues 53-57) and a highly unstable region, the loop between residues 34-41 (n-Src loop). All residues in the domain have apparent Gibbs energies lower than the global unfolding Gibbs energy measured by differential scanning calorimetry, indicating that under our experimental conditions the amide exchange of all residues in the SH3 domain occurs primarily via local unfolding reactions. A structure-based thermodynamic analysis has allowed us to predict correctly the thermodynamics of the global unfolding of the domain and to define the ensemble of conformational states that quantitatively accounts for the observed pattern of hydrogen exchange protection. These results demonstrate that under native conditions the SH3 domain needs to be considered as an ensemble of conformations and that the hydrogen exchange data obtained under those conditions cannot be interpreted by a two-state equilibrium. The observation that specific regions of a protein are able to undergo independent local folding/unfolding reactions indicates that under native conditions the scale of cooperative interactions is regional rather than global.
Hydrogen exchange shows peptide binding stabilizes motions in Hck SH2.	Src-homology-2 domains are small, 100 amino acid protein modules that are present in a number of signal transduction proteins. Previous NMR studies of SH2 domain dynamics indicate that peptide binding decreases protein motions in the pico- to nanosecond, and perhaps slower, time range. We suggest that amide hydrogen exchange and mass spectrometry may be useful for detecting changes in protein dynamics because hydrogen exchange rates are relatively insensitive to the time domains of the dynamics. In the present study, hydrogen exchange and mass spectrometry were used to probe hematopoietic cell kinase SH2 that was either free or bound to a 12-residue high-affinity peptide. Hydrogen exchange rates were determined by exposing free and bound SH2 to D(2)O, fragmenting the SH2 with pepsin, and determining the deuterium level in the peptic fragments. Binding generally decreased hydrogen exchange along much of the SH2 backbone, indicating a widespread reduction in dynamics. Alterations in the exchange of the most rapidly exchanging amide hydrogens, which was detected following acid quench and analysis by mass spectrometry, were used to locate differences in low-amplitude motion when SH2 was bound to the peptide. In addition, the results indicate that hydrogen exchange from the folded form of SH2 is an important process along the entire SH2 backbone.
Direct interaction of STAT4 with the IL-12 receptor.	Signal transduction by interleukin-12 (IL-12) requires phosphorylation and activation of STAT4. Direct interaction of the SH2 domain of STAT4 with a phosphotyrosine residue in the IL-12 receptor has been proposed to be required for the subsequent STAT4 phosphorylation. The IL-12 receptor beta2 subunit contains three tyrosine residues in its cytoplasmic domain. To test the hypothesis that one of these tyrosines is involved in binding STAT4, phosphopeptides were synthesized according to the amino acid sequences surrounding each of these tyrosine residues. Only the phosphopeptide containing pTyr800 strongly bound to STAT4 in a cell-free binding assay. When this phosphopeptide was introduced into TALL-104 cells, it blocked IL-12-induced STAT4 phosphorylation by competing with the IL-12 receptor for binding to STAT4. A series of alanine replacements was performed in this phosphopeptide to elucidate which amino acids surrounding the pTyr800 residue are critical for STAT4 binding. To summarize, the site on the IL-12 receptor which binds STAT4 can be described as -T-X-X-G-pY(800)-L-, where the core G-pY(800)-L motif is critical for the binding; the threonine at the pY-4 position has only a minor contribution and X represents amino acids not critical for the binding. These results demonstrate that only a small region of the IL-12 receptor is critically involved in binding STAT4 and suggest the feasibility that small molecule inhibitors could be identified which interfere with IL-12 signal transduction for treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Grb4/Nckbeta acts as a nuclear repressor of v-Abl-induced transcription from c-jun/c-fos promoter elements.	Grb4 is an adaptor protein consisting of three src homology (SH) 3 domains and a single SH2 domain. We previously cloned Grb4 as a direct interacting partner of Bcr-Abl and v-Abl via the Grb4 SH2 domain. We now show that overexpression of Grb4 results in significant inhibition of v-Abl-induced transcriptional activation from promitogenic enhancer elements such as activator protein 1 (AP-1) and serum-responsive element (SRE). We demonstrate that the inhibitory activity of Grb4 is independent of the direct interaction of v-Abl and Grb4: a Grb4 mutant that lacks a functional SH2 domain shows an even more pronounced inhibition of AP-1/SRE. Further mutational analysis revealed that the first two SH3 domains primarily mediate the inhibitory function. The inhibitory activity of Grb4 is specific for c-jun/c-fos-regulated promoter elements and is located downstream of MEKK1 and JNK because co-expression of Grb4 resulted in down-regulation of MEKK1-induced AP-1 activity without affecting JNK activity. Thus, the nuclear pool of Grb4 is likely to mediate this inhibition. Indeed, cell fractionation and fluorescence microscopy studies revealed that the stronger inhibitory potential of the Grb4 SH2 mutant occurred in conjunction with increased nuclear localization of this mutant. Our results suggest a novel role for Grb4 in the inhibition of promitogenic enhancer elements such as 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-responsive element and SRE.
The ORF3 protein of hepatitis E virus binds to Src homology 3 domains and activates MAPK.	The hepatitis E virus (HEV) is the causative agent of hepatitis E, an acute form of viral hepatitis. The biology and pathogenesis of HEV remain poorly understood. We have used in vitro binding assays to show that the HEV ORF3 protein (pORF3) binds to a number of cellular signal transduction pathway proteins. This includes the protein tyrosine kinases Src, Hck, and Fyn, the p85alpha regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phospholipase Cgamma, and the adaptor protein Grb2. A yeast two-hybrid assay was used to further confirm the pORF3-Grb2 interaction. The binding involves a proline-rich region in pORF3 and the src homology 3 (SH3) domains in the cellular proteins. Competition assays and computer-assisted modeling was used to evaluate the binding surfaces and interaction energies of the pORF3.SH3 complex. In pORF3-expressing cells, pp60(src) was found to associate with an 80-kDa protein, but no activation of the Src kinase was observed in these cells. However, there was increased activity and nuclear localization of ERK in the pORF3-expressing cells. These studies suggest that pORF3 is a viral regulatory protein involved in the modulation of cell signaling. The ORF3 protein of HEV appears to be the first example of a SH3 domain-binding protein encoded by a virus that causes an acute and primarily self-limited infection.
Differential expression of endophilin 1 and 2 dimers at central nervous system synapses.	Endophilin 1 is proposed to participate in synaptic vesicle biogenesis through SH3 domain-mediated interactions with the polyphosphoinositide phosphatase synaptojanin and the GTPase dynamin. Endophilin family members have also been identified as binding partners for a number of diverse cellular proteins. We define here the endophilin 1-binding site within synaptojanin 1 and show that this sequence independently and selectively purifies from brain extracts endophilin 1 and a closely related protein, endophilin 2. Endophilin 2, like endophilin 1, is highly expressed in brain, concentrated in nerve terminals, and found in complexes with synaptojanin and dynamin. Although a fraction of endophilins 1 and 2 coexist in the same complex, the distribution of these endophilin isoforms among central synapses only partially overlaps. Endophilins 1 and 2 are found predominantly as stable dimers through a predicted coiled-coil domain in their conserved NH2-terminal moiety. Dimerization may allow endophilins to link a number of different cellular targets to the endocytic machinery.
Src family kinases mediate receptor-stimulated, phosphoinositide 3-kinase-dependent, tyrosine phosphorylation of dual adaptor for phosphotyrosine and 3-phosphoinositides-1 in endothelial and B cell lines.	DAPP-1 (dual-adaptor for phosphotyrosine and 3-phosphoinositides-1) is a broadly distributed pleckstrin homology (PH) and Src homology 2 domain containing protein that can bind phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)) and can be phosphorylated on tyrosine 139 and internalised in response to activation of type I phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3K). Tyrosine phosphorylation of DAPP-1 appears important for appropriate intracellular targeting and creates a potential binding site for Src homology 2 domain-containing proteins. In endothelial cells overexpressing wild-type platelet-derived growth factor beta (PDGFbeta) receptors, which express Bmx and Src as their major Btk (Bruton's tyrosine kinase) family and Src family tyrosine kinases, respectively, PDGF can stimulate PI3K-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of DAPP-1. Transient overexpression of Src most effectively, compared with Bmx and Syk, augments basal and PDGF-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of DAPP-1, whereas overexpression of dominant-negative Src, but not dominant-negative Bmx, inhibits PDGF-stimulated phosphorylation of DAPP-1. Cells expressing mutant PDGFbeta (Y579F/Y581F) receptors (which fail to bind and activate Src-type kinases) fail to tyrosine phosphorylate DAPP-1 in response to PDGF. We show that in DT40 chicken B cell lines, antibody stimulation leads to PI3K-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of DAPP-1 that is lost in Lyn- or Syk-deficient cell lines but not Btk-deficient cell lines. PI3K-dependent activation of PKB is only lost in Syk-deficient lines. Finally, in vitro we find lipid-modified Src to be the most effective DAPP-1 tyrosine kinase (versus Syk, Lyn, Btk, and Bmx); phosphorylation of DAPP-1 but not Src autophosphorylation is stimulated approximately 10-fold by PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) (IC(50) = 150 nm) and phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate but not by their nonbiological diastereoisomers and depends on PH domain mediated binding of DAPP-1 to PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)-containing membranes. We conclude that Src family kinases are responsible for tyrosine phosphorylation of DAPP-1 in vivo and that PI3K regulation is at the level of PH domain-mediated translocation of DAPP-1 to PI3K products in the membrane.
Interaction of the SH2 domain of Fyn with a cytoskeletal protein, beta-adducin.	Fyn is a Src family tyrosine kinase expressed abundantly in neurons and believed to have specific functions in the brain. To understand the function of Fyn tyrosine kinase, we attempted to identify Fyn Src homology 2 (SH2) domain-binding proteins from a Nonidet P-40-insoluble fraction of the mouse brain. beta-Adducin, an actin filament-associated cytoskeletal protein, was isolated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and identified by tandem mass spectrometry. beta-Adducin was tyrosine phosphorylated by coexpression with wild type but not with a kinase-negative form of Fyn in COS-7 cells. Cell staining analysis showed that coexpression of beta-adducin with Fyn induced translocation of beta-adducin from the cytoplasm to the periphery of the cells where it was colocalized with actin filaments and Fyn. These findings suggest that tyrosine-phosphorylated beta-adducin associates with the SH2 domain of Fyn and colocalizes under plasma membranes.
The sorting nexin, DSH3PX1, connects the axonal guidance receptor, Dscam, to the actin cytoskeleton.	Dock, an adaptor protein that functions in Drosophila axonal guidance, consists of three tandem Src homology 3 (SH3) domains preceding an SH2 domain. To develop a better understanding of axonal guidance at the molecular level, we used the SH2 domain of Dock to purify a protein complex from fly S2 cells. Five proteins were obtained in pure form from this protein complex. The largest protein in the complex was identified as Dscam (Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule), which was subsequently shown to play a key role in directing neurons of the fly embryo to correct positions within the nervous system (Schmucker, D., Clemens, J. C., Shu, H., Worby, C. A., Xiao, J., Muda, M., Dixon, J. E., and Zipursky, S. L. (2000) Cell 101, 671-684). The smallest protein in this complex (p63) has now been identified. We have named p63 DSH3PX1 because it appears to be the Drosophila orthologue of the human protein known as SH3PX1. DSH3PX1 is comprised of an NH(2)-terminal SH3 domain, an internal PHOX homology (PX) domain, and a carboxyl-terminal coiled-coil region. Because of its PX domain, DSH3PX1 is considered to be a member of a growing family of proteins known collectively as sorting nexins, some of which have been shown to be involved in vesicular trafficking. We demonstrate that DSH3PX1 immunoprecipitates with Dock and Dscam from S2 cell extracts. The domains responsible for the in vitro interaction between DSH3PX1 and Dock were also identified. We further show that DSH3PX1 interacts with the Drosophila orthologue of Wasp, a protein component of actin polymerization machinery, and that DSH3PX1 co-immunoprecipitates with AP-50, the clathrin-coat adapter protein. This evidence places DSH3PX1 in a complex linking cell surface receptors like Dscam to proteins involved in cytoskeletal rearrangements and/or receptor trafficking.
Differential regulation of phosphoinositide metabolism by alphaVbeta3 and alphaVbeta5 integrins upon smooth muscle cell migration.	Smooth muscle cell migration is a key step of atherosclerosis and angiogenesis. We demonstrate that alpha(V)beta(3) and alpha(V)beta(5) integrins synergistically regulate smooth muscle cell migration onto vitronectin. Using an original haptotactic cell migration assay, we measured a strong stimulation of phosphoinositide metabolism in migrating vascular smooth muscle cells. Phosphatidic acid production and phosphoinositide 3-kinase IA activation were triggered only upon alpha(V)beta(3) engagement. Blockade of alpha(V)beta(3) engagement or phospholipase C activity resulted in a strong inhibition of smooth muscle cell spreading on vitronectin. By contrast, blockade of alpha(V)beta(5) reinforced elongation and polarization of cell shape. Moreover, Pyk2-associated tyrosine kinase and phosphoinositide 4-kinase activities measured in Pyk2 immunoprecipitates were stimulated upon cell migration. Blockade of either alpha(V)beta(3) or alpha(V)beta(5) function, as well as inhibition of phospholipase C activity, decreased both Pyk2-associated activities. We demonstrated that the Pyk2-associated phosphoinositide 4-kinase corresponded to the beta isoform. Our data point to the metabolism of phosphoinositides as a regulatory pathway for the differential roles played by alpha(V)beta(3) and alpha(V)beta(5) upon cell migration and identify the Pyk2-associated phosphoinositide 4-kinase beta as a common target for both integrins.
Specific binding of the C-terminal Src homology 2 domain of the p85alpha subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase to phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate. Localization and engineering of the phosphoinositide-binding motif.	Phosphoinositide second messengers, generated from the action of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), mediate an array of signaling pathways through the membrane recruitment and activation of downstream effector proteins. Although pleckstrin domains of many target proteins have been shown to bind phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP(3)) and/or phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (PI(3,4)P(2)) with high affinity, published data concerning the phosphoinositide binding specificity of Src homology 2 (SH2) domains remain conflicting. Using three independent assays, we demonstrated that the C-terminal (CT-)SH2 domain, but not the N-terminal SH2 domain, on the PI3K p85alpha subunit displayed discriminative affinity for PIP(3). However, the binding affinity diminished precipitously when the acyl chain of PIP(3) was shortened. In addition, evidence suggests that the charge density on the phosphoinositol ring represents a key factor in determining the phosphoinositide binding specificity of the CT-SH2 domain. In light of the largely shared structural features between PIP(3) and PI(4,5)P(2), we hypothesized that the PIP(3)-binding site on the CT-SH2 domain encompassed a sequence that recognized PI(4,5)P(2). Based on a consensus PI(4,5)P(2)-binding sequence (KXXXXXKXKK; K denotes Arg, Lys, and His), we proposed the sequence (18)RNKAENLLRGKR(29) as the PIP(3)-binding site. This binding motif was verified by using a synthetic peptide and site-directed mutagenesis. More importantly, neutral substitution of flanking Arg(18) and Arg(29) resulted in a switch of ligand specificity of the CT-SH2 domain to PI(4,5)P(2) and PI(3,4)P(2), respectively. Together with computer modeling, these mutagenesis data suggest a pseudosymmetrical relationship in the recognition of the phosphoinositol head group at the binding motif.
A novel, specific interaction involving the Csk SH3 domain and its natural ligand.	C-terminal Src kinase (Csk) takes part in a highly specific, high affinity interaction via its Src homology 3 (SH3) domain with the proline-enriched tyrosine phosphatase PEP in hematopoietic cells. The solution structure of the Csk-SH3 domain in complex with a 25-residue peptide from the Pro/Glu/Ser/Thr-rich (PEST) domain of PEP reveals the basis for this specific peptide recognition motif involving an SH3 domain. Three residues, Ala 40, Thr 42 and Lys 43, in the SH3 domain of Csk specifically recognize two hydrophobic residues, Ile 625 and Val 626, in the proline-rich sequence of the PEST domain of PEP. These two residues are C-terminal to the conventional proline-rich SH3 domain recognition sequence of PEP. This interaction is required in addition to the classic polyproline helix (PPII) recognition by the Csk-SH3 domain for the association between Csk and PEP in vivo. NMR relaxation analysis suggests that Csk-SH3 has different dynamic properties in the various subsites important for peptide recognition.
Caspase-mediated cleavage of actin-binding and SH3-domain-containing proteins cortactin, HS1, and HIP-55 during apoptosis.	Reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton occurs during apoptosis. We found that actin-binding and Src homology 3 (SH3)-domain-containing proteins cortactin, hematopoietic-specific protein 1 (HS1), and hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1-interacting protein of 55 kDa (HIP-55, also called SH3P7 and Abp1) were degraded in a caspase-dependent manner during apoptosis. Cortactin, HS1, and HIP-55 were direct substrates of caspase 3. Cortactin and HS1 have two clusters of potential caspase cleavage sites; one is in their actin-binding domains, and the other is close to their carboxy-terminal SH3 domains. HIP-55 has one caspase recognition site, EHID(361). The HIP-55 (D361A) mutant was resistant to caspase cleavage. Cleavage of HIP-55 by caspases dissociated its actin-binding domain from its SH3 domain. The cleavage of these actin-binding and SH3 domain-containing proteins may affect cell signaling to and from the actin cytoskeleton and may be involved in the morphological change of cells during apoptosis.
Multiple stimuli induce tyrosine phosphorylation of the Crk-binding sites of paxillin.	Paxillin is a focal-adhesion-associated, tyrosine-phosphorylated protein. In cells transformed by the src, crk or BCR-Abl oncogenes, the phosphotyrosine content of paxillin is elevated. In normal cells paxillin functions in signalling following integrin-dependent cell adhesion or exposure to a number of stimuli, including growth factors and neuropeptides. These stimuli induce tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin, regulating the association of Src homology 2 domain-containing signalling molecules with paxillin. There are multiple sites of tyrosine phosphorylation on paxillin. To elucidate the role of paxillin in transducing signals in response to various stimuli, it is essential to identify all of the sites of phosphorylation on paxillin and to define which residues are phosphorylated in response to distinct stimuli. We describe two new sites of tyrosine phosphorylation on paxillin, residues at positions 40 and 88. Using paxillin variants with phenylalanine substitutions at phosphorylation sites and phospho-specific paxillin antibodies, tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin in response to distinct stimuli was examined. The results demonstrate that Tyr(31) and Tyr(118), which are binding sites for Crk, are major sites of tyrosine phosphorylation following cell adhesion or stimulation with platelet-derived growth factor or angiotensin II. Thus multiple stimuli may elicit similar signalling events downstream of paxillin.
Src-family tyrosine kinases, phosphoinositide 3-kinase and Gab1 regulate extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 activation induced by the type A endothelin-1 G-protein-coupled receptor.	The multisubstrate docking protein, growth-factor-receptor-bound protein 2-associated binder 1 (Gab1), which is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues following activation of receptor tyrosine kinases and cytokine receptors, regulates cell proliferation, survival and epithelial morphogenesis. Gab1 is also tyrosine phosphorylated following activation of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) where its function is poorly understood. To elucidate the role of Gab1 in GPCR signalling, we investigated the mechanism by which the type A endothelin-1 (ET-1) GPCR induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Gab1. Tyrosine phosphorylation of Gab1 induced by endothelin-1 was inhibited by PP1, a pharmacological inhibitor of Src-family tyrosine kinases. ET-1-induced Gab1 tyrosine phosphorylation was also inhibited by LY294002, which inhibits phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) enzymes. Inhibition of Src-family tyrosine kinases or PI 3-kinase also inhibited ET-1-induced activation of the mitogen activated protein kinase family member, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1. Thus we determined whether Gab1 regulated ET-1-induced ERK1 activation. Overexpression of wild-type Gab1 potentiated ET-1-induced activation of ERK1. Structure-function analyses of Gab1 indicated that mutant forms of Gab1 that do not bind the Src homology (SH) 2 domains of the p85 adapter subunit of PI 3-kinase or the SH2-domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP-2) were impaired in their ability to potentiate ET-1-induced ERK1 activation. Taken together, our data indicate that PI 3-kinase and Src-family tyrosine kinases regulate ET-1-induced Gab1 tyrosine phosphorylation, which, in turn, induces ERK1 activation via PI 3-kinase- and SHP-2-dependent pathways.
Functional cloning of Src-like adapter protein-2 (SLAP-2), a novel inhibitor of antigen receptor signaling.	In an effort to identify novel therapeutic targets for autoimmunity and transplant rejection, we developed and performed a large-scale retroviral-based functional screen to select for proteins that inhibit antigen receptor-mediated activation of lymphocytes. In addition to known regulators of antigen receptor signaling, we identified a novel adaptor protein, SLAP-2 which shares 36% sequence similarity with the known Src-like adaptor protein, SLAP. Similar to SLAP, SLAP-2 is predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells. Overexpression of SLAP-2 in B and T cell lines specifically impaired antigen receptor-mediated signaling events, including CD69 surface marker upregulation, nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) promoter activation and calcium influx. Signaling induced by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and ionomycin was not significantly reduced, suggesting SLAP-2 functions proximally in the antigen receptor signaling cascade. The SLAP-2 protein contains an NH2-terminal myristoylation consensus sequence and SH3 and SH2 Src homology domains, but lacks a tyrosine kinase domain. In antigen receptor-stimulated cells, SLAP-2 associated with several tyrosine phosphorylated proteins, including the ubiquitin ligase Cbl. Deletion of the COOH terminus of SLAP-2 blocked function and abrogated its association with Cbl. Mutation of the putative myristoylation site of SLAP-2 compromised its inhibitory activity and impaired its localization to the membrane compartment. Our identification of the negative regulator SLAP-2 demonstrates that a retroviral-based screening strategy may be an efficient way to identify and characterize the function of key components of many signal transduction systems.
The role of backbone motions in ligand binding to the c-Src SH3 domain.	The Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of pp60(c-src) (Src) plays dual roles in signal transduction, through stabilizing the repressed form of the Src kinase and through mediating the formation of activated signaling complexes. Transition of the Src SH3 domain between a variety of binding partners during progression through the cell cycle requires adjustment of a delicate free energy balance. Although numerous structural and functional studies of SH3 have provided an in-depth understanding of structural determinants for binding, the origins of binding energy in SH3-ligand interactions are not fully understood. Considering only the protein-ligand interface, the observed favorable change in standard enthalpy (DeltaH=-9.1 kcal/mol) and unfavorable change in standard entropy (TDeltaS=-2.7 kcal/mol) upon binding the proline-rich ligand RLP2 (RALPPLPRY) are inconsistent with the predominantly hydrophobic interaction surface. To investigate possible origins of ligand binding energy, backbone dynamics of free and RLP2-bound SH3 were performed via (15)N NMR relaxation and hydrogen-deuterium (H/(2)H) exchange measurements. On the ps-ns time scale, assuming uncorrelated motions, ligand binding results in a significant reduction in backbone entropy (-1.5(+/-0.6) kcal/mol). Binding also suppresses motions on the micros-ms time scale, which may additionally contribute to an unfavorable change in entropy. A large increase in protection from H/(2)H exchange is observed upon ligand binding, providing evidence for entropy loss due to motions on longer time scales, and supporting the notion that stabilization of pre-existing conformations within a native state ensemble is a fundamental paradigm for ligand binding. Observed changes in motion on all three time scales occur at locations both near and remote from the protein-ligand interface. The propagation of ligand binding interactions across the SH3 domain has potential consequences in target selection through altering both free energy and geometry in intact Src, and suggests that looking beyond the protein-ligand interface is essential in understanding ligand binding energetics.
HSH2: a novel SH2 domain-containing adapter protein involved in tyrosine kinase signaling in hematopoietic cells.	We isolated a cDNA clone encoding a novel Src homology (SH)2 domain-containing protein of 47 kDa from a human cDNA library. As its transcript was predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells, this gene was termed HSH2 for hematopoietic SH2 protein. This protein contains several putative protein-binding motifs, SH3-binding proline-rich regions, and phosphotyrosine sites, but lacks enzymatic motifs. In a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified a cytokine-regulated tyrosine kinase c-FES and an activated Cdc42-associated tyrosine kinase ACK1 as HSH2 interactors. HSH2 bound c-FES via its C-terminal region as well as its N-terminal region including the SH2 domain, whereas it bound ACK1 via its N-terminal proline-rich region. Furthermore, these two kinases bound and tyrosine-phosphorylated HSH2 in mammalian cells. Hence, we postulate that HSH2 functions as an adapter protein involved in tyrosine kinase signaling, and possibly regulates cytokine signaling and cytoskeletal reorganization, in hematopoietic cells.
Role of SH3 domain-containing proteins in clathrin-mediated vesicle trafficking in Arabidopsis.	A group of plant AtSH3Ps (Arabidopsis thaliana SH3-containing proteins) involved in trafficking of clathrin-coated vesicles was identified from the GenBank database. These proteins contained predicted coiled-coil and Src homology 3 (SH3) domains that are similar to animal and yeast proteins involved in the formation, fission, and uncoating of clathrin-coated vesicles. Subcellular fractionation and immunolocalization studies confirmed the presence of AtSH3P1 in the endomembrane system. In particular, AtSH3P1 was localized on or adjacent to the plasma membrane and its associated vesicles, vesicles of the trans-Golgi network, and the partially coated reticulum. At all of these locations, AtSH3P1 colocalized with clathrin. Functionally, in vitro lipid binding assay demonstrated that AtSH3P1 bound to specific lipid groups known to accumulate at invaginated coated pits or coated vesicles. In addition, immunohistochemical studies and actin binding assays indicated that AtSH3P1 also may regulate vesicle trafficking along the actin cytoskeleton. Yeast complementation studies suggested that AtSH3Ps have similar functions to the yeast Rvs167p protein involved in endocytosis and actin arrangement. A novel interaction between AtSH3P1 and an auxilin-like protein was identified by yeast two-hybrid screening, immunolocalization, and an in vitro binding assay. The interaction was mediated through the SH3 domain of AtSH3P1 and a proline-rich domain of auxilin. The auxilin-like protein stimulated the uncoating of clathrin-coated vesicles by Hsc70, a reaction that appeared to be inhibited in the presence of AtSH3P1. Hence, AtSH3P1 may perform regulatory and/or scaffolding roles during the transition of fission and the uncoating of clathrin-coated vesicles.
GRB2: a pivotal protein in signal transduction.	The growth factor receptor-bound protein-2 (GRB2) is essential for multiple cellular functions. Inhibition of GRB2 function impairs developmental processes in various organisms and blocks transformation and proliferation of various cell types. GRB2 is most well known for its ability to link the epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase to the activation of RAS and its downstream kinases, ERK1,2. We recently reported that GRB2 does not link the HER2 tyrosine kinase to the activation of ERK1,2 but to another kinase, AKT. So, different tyrosine kinases may converge on GRB2 for signaling; however, they may not always use GRB2 to effect the same downstream kinases for cellular functions. It is likely that GRB2 will be found to regulate many more kinases because it plays such a pivotal role in signal transduction.
Slow dynamics in folded and unfolded states of an SH3 domain.	(15)N relaxation dispersion experiments were applied to the isolated N-terminal SH3 domain of the Drosophila protein drk (drkN SH3) to study microsecond to second time scale exchange processes. The drkN SH3 domain exists in equilibrium between folded (F(exch)) and unfolded (U(exch)) states under nondenaturing conditions in a ratio of 2:1 at 20 degrees C, with an average exchange rate constant, k(ex), of 2.2 s(-1) (slow exchange on the NMR chemical shift time scale). Consequently a discrete set of resonances is observed for each state in NMR spectra. Within the U(exch) ensemble there is a contiguous stretch of residues undergoing conformational exchange on a micros/ms time scale, likely due to local, non-native hydrophobic collapse. For these residues both the F(exch) <--> U(exch) conformational exchange process and the micros/ms exchange event within the U(exch) state contribute to the (15)N line width and can be analyzed using CPMG-based (15)N relaxation dispersion measurements. The contribution of both processes to the apparent relaxation rate can be deconvoluted numerically by combining the experimental (15)N relaxation dispersion data with results from an (15)N longitudinal relaxation experiment that accurately quantifies exchange rates in slow exchanging systems (Farrow, N. A.; Zhang, O.; Forman-Kay, J. D.; Kay, L. E. J. Biomol. NMR 1994, 4, 727-734). A simple, generally applicable analytical expression for the dependence of the effective transverse relaxation rate constant on the pulse spacing in CPMG experiments has been derived for a two-state exchange process in the slow exchange limit, which can be used to fit the experimental data on the global folding/unfolding transition. The results illustrate that relaxation dispersion experiments provide an extremely sensitive tool to probe conformational exchange processes in unfolded states and to obtain information on the free energy landscape of such systems.
Both proline-rich sequences in the TH region of Bruton's tyrosine kinase stabilize intermolecular interactions with the SH3 domain.	The Tec homology (TH) region located N-terminal to the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) contains two proline-rich SH3-binding sequences (PRRs). We have previously demonstrated that the TH region acts to stabilize intermolecular interactions in N-terminally extended SH3 (PRR-SH3) fragments. Here, we analyze six PRR-SH3 fragments with different proline-to-alanine substitutions in the two PRRs. Gel permeation chromatography and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy show that both PRRs can stabilize self-association. This observation provides an explanation to why the TH region of Btk makes intermolecular interactions, whereas the corresponding interaction in the related Itk kinase with only one PRR, is intramolecular.
ShcA tyrosine phosphorylation sites can replace ShcA binding in signalling by middle T-antigen.	ShcA and Grb2 are crucial components in signalling by most tyrosine kinase-associated receptors. How ever, it is not clear whether Grb2 bound directly to the receptor is equivalent to Grb2 associated via ShcA. We have used signalling stimulated by the middle T-antigen (MT) of polyoma virus to address this question. The two known Grb2-binding sites from murine ShcA, 313Y and 239/240YY, could functionally replace the MT ShcA-interacting region in transformation assays using Rat2 fibroblasts. This demonstrates that signal output from membrane-bound ShcA requires only these two sequences and the ShcA-binding site in MT does not recruit other signalling molecules. Two standard Grb2-interacting sequences, either from the EGF receptor or the ShcA 313Y region, could not replace the requirement for ShcA binding to MT, indicating an enhanced role for the ShcA 239/240YY motif. Sos1 and the docking protein Gab1 are brought into the MT complex through Grb2 association and this may be more effective using the 239/240YY sequence.
Boundary sequences of the NADPH oxidase p67(phox) C-terminal SH3 domain play on its specificity.	SH3 domains are found in many signal transduction proteins where they mediate protein-protein binding by recognizing specific peptides rich in proline. Based on the analysis of sequence alignment data, the NADPH oxidase p67(phox) C-terminal SH3 domain possesses a typical compact beta-barrel consisting of five beta-strands arranged in two antiparallel beta-sheets of three and two beta-strands. Multiple amino acid substitutions were made at beta e and its flanking residues to determine the role of the boundary sequences in binding activity and conformational specificity of the domain. Analysis of amino acid P55 indicated that all mutants were completely abolished in their binding activities. The substitution of F58 with Y58 showed no effect of the binding, whereas substitution with stop codon abolished activity. Furthermore, when amino acid V59 was substituted with stop codon, activity was also completely abolished. Substitution of E60 with stop codon showed no effect of binding. Moreover, our data show that V59 particularly could not be replaced by Leu. Taken together, these data suggest that V59 may not only contribute the exact boundary site but also play on the specificity for protein-protein interactions in phagocyte NADPH oxidase.
Tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent yeast two-hybrid system for the identification of the SH2 domain-binding proteins.	In this paper, we established a modified yeast two-hybrid system, which is specialized for the detection of SH2 domain-binding proteins. The employment of the SH2 domain-tyrosine kinase fusion protein as bait allowed the efficient identification of SH2 domain-binding proteins. The general applicability of the system was tested using various combinations of SH2-kinase fusion bait and prey. The results indicate that the system specifically detected the previously reported in vivo interactions between the SH2 domains and their binding partners. In addition, using this system, we found the interaction between the adaptor protein, Lad, and the SH2 domain of Grb2 or PLC-gamma1. The binding of Lad to Grb2 was further confirmed in mammalian cells by a co-immunoprecipitation study. The conclusion is that the established tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent yeast two-hybrid system provides a novel and efficient way to define the SH2 domain-binding molecules.
Loss of neurons in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of AMSH-deficient mice.	AMSH, a molecule that associates with STAM1, is involved in the in vitro cell growth signaling mediated by interleukin 2 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. To investigate the in vivo functional role of AMSH, we have generated AMSH-deficient mice by gene targeting. The AMSH-deficient mice were morphologically indistinguishable from their littermates at birth, and histopathological examinations revealed normal morphogenesis in all tissues tested. However, all the AMSH-deficient mice exhibited postnatal growth retardation and died between postnatal day 19 (P19) and P23. Examination of brain sections at P6 demonstrated significant loss of neurons and apoptotic cells in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus. Brain atrophy developed by P16 and was accompanied by complete loss of the CA1 neurons in the hippocampus and marked atrophy of the cerebral cortex. Furthermore, AMSH-deficient hippocampal neuronal cells were unable to survive in vitro, even in the presence of several stimulatory cytokines, while AMSH-deficient cerebellar neurons, thymocytes, and embryonic fibroblasts survived normally. Taken together, these observations indicate that AMSH is an essential molecule for the survival of neuronal cells in early postnatal mice.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of the well packed ephrinB cytoplasmic beta-hairpin for reverse signaling. Structural consequences and binding properties.	Tyrosine phosphorylation of the 22-residue cytoplasmic region of ephrinB induces its binding to the SH2 domain of Grb4, thus initiating reverse signaling pathways controlling cytoskeleton assembly and remodeling. Recently, the region corresponding to this 22-residue motif was demonstrated to adopt a well packed beta-hairpin structure with a high conformational stability in the unphosphorylated cytoplasmic subdomain. However, because the binding to Grb4 is phosphorylation-dependent and the hairpin contains three conserved tyrosine residues that may be phosphorylated, the key events remain unknown as to how tyrosine phosphorylation affects the structure of this well packed beta-hairpin and which phosphorylation site is relevant to SH2 domain binding. By characterizing the structural and binding properties of six 22-residue SH2 domain-binding motifs with different phosphorylated sites, the present study reveals that, as shown by circular dichroism and NMR, the unphosphorylated 22-residue motif adopts a well formed beta-hairpin structure in isolation from the ephrinB cytoplasmic subdomain. However, this beta-hairpin is radically abolished by tyrosine phosphorylation, regardless of the relative location and number of Tyr residues. Unexpectedly, the peptides with either Tyr304 or Tyr316 phosphorylated show high affinity binding to SH2 domain, whereas the peptide with Tyr311 phosphorylated has no detectable binding. This implies that ephrinB with Tyr311 phosphorylated might have a currently unidentified binding partner distinct from the Grb4 protein, because Tyr311 is known to be phosphorylated in vivo. Based on the results above, it is thus proposed that the disruption of the tight side-chain packing by tyrosine phosphorylation in the well structured region of a signaling protein may represent a general activation mechanism by which a cryptic binding site is disclosed for new protein-protein interactions.
Interaction of guanylyl cyclase C with SH3 domain of Src tyrosine kinase. Yet another mechanism for desensitization.	Protein-protein interactions mediated by the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain have been implicated in the regulation of receptor functions for subcellular localization of proteins and the reorganization of cytoskeleton. The experiments described in this article begin to identify the interaction of the SH3 domain of Src tyrosine kinase with the guanylyl cyclase C receptor after activation with Escherichia coli heat-stable enterotoxin (ST). Only one of two post-translationally modified forms of guanylyl cyclase C from T84 colonic carcinoma cells bind to GST-SH3 fusion protein of Src and Hck tyrosine kinases. Interestingly, the GST-Src-SH3 fusion protein showed 2-fold more affinity to native guanylyl cyclase C in solution than the GST-Hck-SH3 fusion protein. The affinity of the GST-Src-SH3 fusion protein to guanylyl cyclase C increased on desensitization of receptor in vivo. An in vitro cyclase assay in the presence of GST-Src-SH3 fusion protein indicated inhibition of the catalytic activity of guanylyl cyclase C. The catalytic domain recombinant protein (GST-GCD) of guanylyl cyclase C could pull-down a 60-kDa protein that reacted with Src tyrosine antibody and also showed autophosphorylation. These data suggest that SH3 domain-mediated protein-protein interaction with the catalytic domain of guanylyl cyclase C inhibited the cyclase activity and that such an interaction, possibly mediated by Src tyrosine kinase or additional proteins, might be pivotal for the desensitization phenomenon of the guanylyl cyclase C receptor.
Properties of phagocyte NADPH oxidase p47-phox mutants with unmasked SH3 (Src homology 3) domains: full reconstitution of oxidase activity in a semi-recombinant cell-free system lacking arachidonic acid.	In an early step in the assembly of the phagocyte NADPH oxidase, p47-phox translocates from the cytosol to the membrane, mediated by engagement of the N-termini of two p47-phox Src homology 3 (SH3) domains with a proline-rich region (PRR) in the p22-phox subunit of cytochrome b (558). In response to phagocyte activation, several serine residues in a C-terminal arginine/lysine-rich domain of p47-phox are phosphorylated, leading to changes in the conformation of p47-phox and exposure of its N-terminal SH3 domain that is normally masked by internal association with the arginine/lysine-rich domain. We report that triple alanine substitutions at Asp-217, Glu-218 and Glu-223 in a short sequence that links the tandem p47-phox SH3 domains unmasked the N-terminal SH3 domain, similar to the effects of aspartic acid substitutions at Ser-310 and Ser-328 in the arginine/lysine-rich region. Recombinant p47-phox proteins with mutations in either the linker region or the arginine/lysine-rich domain were active in the absence of arachidonic acid stimulation in a cell-free NADPH oxidase system consisting of recombinant p67-phox, Rac1-guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate and neutrophil membranes. Supplementing neutrophil membranes with phosphoinositides or other negatively charged phospholipids markedly enhanced cell-free superoxide generation by these p47-phox mutants in the absence of arachidonic acid, to levels equivalent to those generated by wild-type p47-phox following arachidonic acid activation. This enhancement may be related to recruitment to the membrane of p47-phox mediated by a novel secondary phox homology (PX) domain binding site that broadly recognizes phospholipids. No specific enhancement by specific phosphorylated phosphatidylinositols was found to suggest a dominant role for the p47-phox primary PX domain binding site. Truncated p47-phox S310D S328D lacking the C-terminal PRR was inactive in the cell-free system without arachidonic acid, but was fully active with arachidonic acid. This suggests that activation of NADPH oxidase in an arachidonate-free cell-free system requires association of the p47-phox C-terminal PRR with the p67-phox C-terminal SH3 domain.
Interaction of lp-dlg/KIAA0583, a membrane-associated guanylate kinase family protein, with vinexin and beta-catenin at sites of cell-cell contact.	Vinexin is a recently identified cytoskeletal protein and plays a key role in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization and signal transduction. Vinexin localizes at sites of cell-extracellular matrix adhesion in NIH3T3 fibroblasts and at sites of cell-cell contact in epithelial LLC-PK1 cells. Expression of vinexin promotes the formation of actin stress fiber, but the role of vinexin at sites of cell-cell contact is unclear. Here we identified lp-dlg/KIAA0583 as a novel binding partner for vinexin by using yeast two-hybrid screening. lp-dlg/KIAA0583 has a NH2-terminal coiled-coil-like domain, in addition to four PDZ domains, an Src homology (SH) 3 domain, and a guanylate kinase domain, which are conserved structures in membrane-associated guanylate kinase family proteins. The third SH3 domain of vinexin bound to the region between the second and third PDZ domain of lp-dlg, which contains a proline-rich sequence. lp-dlg colocalized with vinexin at sites of cell-cell contact in LLC-PK1 cells. Furthermore, lp-dlg colocalized with beta-catenin, a major adherens junction protein, in LLC-PK1 cells. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that both endogenous and epitope-tagged deletion mutants of lp-dlg/KIAA0583 associated with beta-catenin. We also showed that these three proteins could form a ternary complex. Together these findings suggest that lp-dlg/KIAA0583 is a novel scaffolding protein that can link the vinexin-vinculin complex and beta-catenin at sites of cell-cell contact.
Real-time kinetics of the interaction between the two subunits, Escherichia coli thioredoxin and gene 5 protein of phage T7 DNA polymerase.	T7 phage DNA polymerase is a tight 1:1 complex of the gene 5 protein (g5p) (80 kDa) of phage T7 and thioredoxin (12 kDa) from the Escherichia coli host. The holoenzyme is essential for the replication of the phage. We estimated the real-time kinetics and thermodynamics of the interaction of g5p with thioredoxin (wild type and mutants) using surface plasmon resonance. Thioredoxin was immobilized on a CM5 sensor chip through a six-carbon spacer (6-amino-n-hexanoic acid) using standard amine coupling. Reduced thioredoxin bound g5p but oxidized thioredoxin did not. The association and dissociation phases of the complex fit a two-exponential model with an apparent equilibrium dissociation constant (KD) of 2.2 nm for thioredoxin with 4.7 x 104.M-1.s-1 and 10.5 x 10-5.s-1 as the corresponding association (ka) and dissociation (kd) rate constants. The strong binding of g5p to thioredoxin is therefore due to fast association and very slow dissociation, a situation similar to antigen-antibody interactions. Thioredoxin mutants P34S, D26A, K57M, D26A/K57M, W31F, W31Y, K36A, K36E, and Y49F had KD values in the range of 1 to 8 nm, whereas mutant W28A had a KD of 12.5 nm. No detectable interaction was observed for mutants P40G, W31H, W31A, and C35A. The effect of temperature on KD and the changes in enthalpy (-DeltaH = 20.2 kcal.m-1) and entropy (TDeltaS =-8.4 kcal.m-1) upon formation of the complex suggested that the interaction is driven by an increase in enthalpy and opposed by a decrease in entropy.
A Cortactin-CD2-associated protein (CD2AP) complex provides a novel link between epidermal growth factor receptor endocytosis and the actin cytoskeleton.	Growth factor regulation of the cortical actin cytoskeleton is fundamental to a wide variety of cellular processes. The cortical actin-associated protein, cortactin, regulates the formation of dynamic actin networks via the actin-related protein (Arp)2/3 complex and hence is a key mediator of such responses. In order to reveal novel roles for this versatile protein, we used a proteomics-based approach to isolate cortactin-interacting proteins. This identified several proteins, including CD2-associated protein (CD2AP), as targets for the cortactin Src homology 3 domain. Co-immunoprecipitation of CD2AP with cortactin occurred at endogenous expression levels, was transiently induced by epidermal growth factor (EGF) treatment, and required the cortactin Src homology 3 domain. The CD2AP-binding site for cortactin mapped to the second of three proline-rich regions. Because CD2AP is closely related to Cbl-interacting protein of 85 kDa (CIN85), which regulates growth factor receptor down-regulation via complex formation with Cbl and endophilin, we investigated whether the CD2AP-cortactin complex performs a similar function. EGF treatment of cells led to transient association of Cbl and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) with a constitutive CD2AP-endophilin complex. Cortactin was recruited into this complex with slightly delayed kinetics compared with Cbl and the EGFR. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that the EGFR, CD2AP, and cortactin co-localized in regions of EGF-induced membrane ruffles. Therefore, by binding both CD2AP and the Arp2/3 complex, cortactin links receptor endocytosis to actin polymerization, which may facilitate the trafficking of internalized growth factor receptors.
Linking the T cell surface protein CD2 to the actin-capping protein CAPZ via CMS and CIN85.	Recruitment of CD2 to the immunological synapse in response to antigen is dependent on its proline-rich cytoplasmic tail. A peptide from this region (CD2:322-339) isolated CMS (human CD2AP); a related protein, CIN85; and the actin capping protein, CAPZ from a T cell line. In BIAcore analyses, the N-terminal SH3 domains of CMS and CIN85 bound CD2:322-339 with similar dissociation constants (KD = approximately 100 microm). CAPZ bound the C-terminal half of CMS and CIN85. Direct binding between CMS/CIN85 and CAPZ provides a link with the actin cytoskeleton. Overexpression of a fragment from the C-terminal half or the N-terminal SH3 domain of CD2AP in a mouse T cell hybridoma resulted in enhanced interleukin-2 production and reduced T cell receptor down-modulation in response to antigen. These adaptor proteins are important in T cell signaling consistent with a role for CD2 in regulating pathways initiated by CMS/CIN85 and CAPZ.
Adaptor protein 3BP2 is a potential ligand of Src homology 2 and 3 domains of Lyn protein-tyrosine kinase.	Adaptor protein 3BP2, a c-Abl-Src homology 3 (SH3) domain-binding protein, is known to play a regulatory role in T-cell receptor-mediated transcriptional activation of nuclear factor of activated T cell and activator protein 1 by interacting with Syk/ZAP-70 protein-tyrosine kinase. We have previously demonstrated that aggregation of high affinity IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI) induces tyrosine phosphorylation of 3BP2, and overexpression of the 3BP2-SH2 domain suppresses antigen-induced degranulation in rat basophilic leukemia RBL-2H3 mast cell line. In this report, we attempt to analyze the biological relevance of 3BP2 tyrosine phosphorylation. By using the transient expression system in COS-7 cells, we have demonstrated that 3BP2 was predominantly phosphorylated on Tyr174, Tyr183, and Tyr446 when it was coexpressed with Syk. An in vitro binding study revealed that phosphorylation of Tyr446 by Syk was likely to create a binding site for the Lyn-SH2 domain in RBL-2H3 cells. In addition, proline-rich region of 3BP2 bound to the Lyn-SH3 domain. Conformational microscopic analysis showed that Lyn and 3BP2 are constitutively colocalized in RBL-2H3 cells. Overexpression of 3BP2 in RBL-2H3 cells resulted in an enhancement of Lyn autophosphorylation. These results suggest that the adaptor protein 3BP2 is a potential regulator of Lyn protein-tyrosine kinase as a ligand of its SH3/SH2 domains in FcepsilonRI-mediated signaling in mast cells.
Desensitization of signaling by oncostatin M in human vascular cells involves cytoplasmic Tyr residue 759 in gp130 but is not mediated by either Src homology 2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase 2 or suppressor of cytokine signaling 3.	Oncostatin M (OnM) signals through cell surface receptors, which utilize the gp130 subunit. In cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), OnM transiently elevates mRNA encoding for suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS-3). By 1 h of OnM treatment, HUVEC become refractory to the restimulation by OnM, measured as failure to reinduce SOCS-3 mRNA. OnM-induced desensitization also prevents responses to other gp130-signaling cytokines (e.g. leukemia inhibitory factor and interleukin 11). OnM treatment does not affect gp130 expression levels and desensitizes signaling mediated by a transduced chimeric receptor containing extracellular domains of platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta (PDGFRbeta) and the cytoplasmic region of gp130. Interestingly, a chimeric PDGFRbeta-gp130 mutant receptor, in which intracellular Tyr residue 759 of gp130 is replaced by a Phe residue, mediates prolonged signaling and is not cross-desensitized by OnM. Phospho-Tyr759 is the binding site for both SOCS-3 and for Src homology domain 2-containing tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP-2). In human aortic smooth muscle cells, neither prevention of SOCS-3 protein induction, using STAT3 or SOCS-3 antisense, nor prevention of SHP-2 expression, also with antisense, ablates desensitization. These data suggest that desensitization of vascular cells to OnM is mediated in trans and involves Tyr residue 759 in gp130 but is not mediated by either SOCS-3 or SHP-2, the only two proteins currently known to bind to gp130 at this site.
Two new substrates in insulin signaling, IRS5/DOK4 and IRS6/DOK5.	We have identified two new human genes that encode proteins with tandem pleckstrin homology-phosphotyrosine binding (PH-PTB) domains at their amino termini. Because the other known PH-PTB proteins (insulin receptor substrates: IRS-1, IRS-2, IRS-3, and IRS-4, and the downstream of kinases: DOK-1, DOK-2, and DOK-3) are substrates of insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 receptors, we asked whether these new proteins, termed IRS5/DOK4 and IRS6/DOK5, might also have roles in insulin and IGF-1 signaling. Northern analyses indicate that IRS5/DOK4 is ubiquitously expressed but most abundant in kidney and liver. IRS6/DOK5 expression is highest in skeletal muscle. Both proteins are tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to insulin and IGF-1 in transfected cells, although the kinetics differ. Insulin receptor-phosphorylated IRS5/DOK4 associates with RasGAP, Crk, Src, and Fyn, but not phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase p85, Grb2, SHP-2, Nck, or phospholipase Cgamma Src homology 2 domains, and activates MAPK in cells. IRS6/DOK5 neither associates with these Src homology 2 domains nor activates MAPK. IRS5/DOK4 and IRS6/DOK5 represent two new signaling proteins with potential roles in insulin and IGF-1 action.
Profiling the global tyrosine phosphorylation state.	Protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases play a key role in cell signaling, and the recent success of specific tyrosine kinase inhibitors in cancer treatment strongly validates the clinical relevance of basic research on tyrosine phosphorylation. Functional profiling of the tyrosine phosphoproteome is likely to lead to the identification of novel targets for drug discovery and provide a basis for novel molecular diagnostic approaches. The ultimate aim of current mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomic approaches is the comprehensive characterization of the phosphoproteome. However, current methods are not yet sensitive enough for routine detection of a large percentage of tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins, which are generally of low abundance. In this article, we discuss alternative methods that exploit Src homology 2 (SH2) domains for profiling the tyrosine phosphoproteome. SH2 domains are small protein modules that bind specifically to tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides; there are more than 100 SH2 domains in the human genome, and different SH2 domains bind to different classes of tyrosine-phosphorylated ligands. These domains play a critical role in the propagation of signals in the cell, mediating the relocalization and complex formation of proteins in response to changes in tyrosine phosphorylation. We have developed an SH2 profiling method based on far-Western blotting, in which a battery of SH2 domains is used to probe the global state of tyrosine phosphorylation. Application to the classification of human malignancies suggests that this approach has potential as a molecular diagnostic tool. We also describe ongoing efforts to modify and improve SH2 profiling, including the development of a multiplexed assay system that will allow high-throughput functional profiling of the tyrosine phosphoproteome.
Determinants of intra versus intermolecular self-association within the regulatory domains of Rlk and Itk.	A protein fragment from the Tec family member Rlk (also known as Txk) containing a single proline-rich ligand adjacent to a Src homology 3 (SH3) domain has been investigated by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Analysis of the concentration dependence of the chemical shifts, NMR linewidths and self-diffusion coefficients reveal that the Rlk fragment dimerizes in solution. Mutation of two critical prolines in the proline-rich ligand abolishes dimerization. Furthermore, analysis of the extrapolated chemical shifts at infinite dilution reveal that intramolecular binding of the proline-rich ligand to the SH3 domain is disfavored. This is in contrast to the corresponding fragment of Itk, for which the proline-rich ligand/SH3 interaction occurs exclusively in an intramolecular fashion and no intermolecular binding is observed. Comparison of the Itk and Rlk sequences reveals that Rlk contains five fewer residues than Itk in the linker region between the proline-rich ligand and the SH3 domain. To assess whether linker length is a molecular determinant of intra- versus intermolecular self-association, we varied the length of the linker in both Rlk and Itk and analyzed the resulting variants by NMR. Intramolecular binding in Itk is reduced by shortening the linker and conversely a longer linker between the proline-rich ligand and the SH3 domain in Rlk enhances intramolecular self-association. Association constants for the binding of peptides corresponding to the proline-rich ligand with their respective SH3 domains were also measured by NMR. The protein/peptide data combined with the association constants for binding of each proline-rich peptide to the corresponding SH3 domain provide an explanation for the opposing modes of self-association within the otherwise closely related Rlk and Itk proteins.
Utilization of a beta-aminophosphotyrosyl mimetic in the design and synthesis of macrocyclic Grb2 SH2 domain-binding peptides.	Grb2 SH2 domains are protein-docking modules that exert important functions in both normal and pathogenic signal transduction processes. Development of synthetic Grb2 SH2 domain binding ligands is being pursued by several groups as potential new therapies for a variety of diseases, including certain cancers. In these efforts, macrocyclization has been successfully utilized to take advantage of preferential recognition by Grb2 SH2 domains of ligands in beta-bend conformations. Recent examples of this approach include olefin-metathesis-derived macrocycles that employ ring closure at the beta-position of key pTyr-mimicking residues. In the current study, a novel phosphatase-stable beta-amino-pTyr mimetic designated "Pmp(beta)" was utilized to prepare variants of previously reported olefin-metathesis-derived macrocycles. An initial set of simplified cyclic peptides lacking key naphthyl side chain functionality was first synthesized to determine optimum ring size, with results indicating that a four-unit ring-closing segment was appropriate. On the basis of these findings, macrolactamization was undertaken with a more highly functionalized, naphthyl-containing gamma-amino acid analogue. The resulting cyclic beta-amino peptide is the first of a new class of pTyr-mimetic-containing ligands that may have utility in the development of antagonists of both Grb2 SH2 domains and other pTyr-dependent signaling systems.
c-Cbl is a critical modulator of the Ron tyrosine kinase receptor.	Ron, the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) for the macrophage stimulating protein (MSP), activates multiple signaling pathways by recruiting several positive regulators to a multifunctional docking site. Here we show that stimulation by MSP also recruits a negative regulator, the c-Cbl ubiquitin ligase, to the multifunctional docking site as well as to a juxtamembrane tyrosine autophosphorylation site. c-Cbl recruitment to these two sites results in polyubiquitylation of Ron molecules, which are subsequently sorted for endocytosis and degradation. Both the phosphotyrosine binding domain of c-Cbl and its RING domain are essential for downregulation of Ron. Although Ron and c-Cbl are found also in physical complexes that include Grb2, these associations are insufficient for productive ubiquitylation of Ron. Our results shed light on the mechanism of receptor desensitization mediated by c-Cbl and its binding partner Grb2.
Phospholipase C-gamma contains introns shared by src homology 2 domains in many unrelated proteins.	Many proteins with novel functions were created by exon shuffling around the time of the metazoan radiation. Phospholipase C-gamma (PLC-gamma) is typical of proteins that appeared at this time, containing several different modules that probably originated elsewhere. To gain insight into both PLC-gamma evolution and structure-function relationships within the Drosophila PLC-gamma encoded by small wing (sl), we cloned and sequenced the PLC-gamma homologs from Drosophila pseudoobscura and D. virilis and compared their gene structure and predicted amino acid sequences with PLC-gamma homologs in other animals. PLC-gamma has been well conserved throughout, although structural differences suggest that the role of tyrosine phosphorylation in enzyme activation differs between vertebrates and invertebrates. Comparison of intron positions demonstrates that extensive intron loss has occurred during invertebrate evolution and also reveals the presence of conserved introns in both the N- and C-terminal PLC-gamma SH2 domains that are present in SH2 domains in many other genes. These and other conserved SH2 introns suggest that the SH2 domains in PLC-gamma are derived from an ancestral domain that was shuffled not only into PLC-gamma, but also into many other unrelated genes during animal evolution.
Cooperation of cytokine signaling with chimeric transcription factors in leukemogenesis: PML-retinoic acid receptor alpha blocks growth factor-mediated differentiation.	We utilized a mouse model of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) to investigate how aberrant activation of cytokine signaling pathways interacts with chimeric transcription factors to generate acute myeloid leukemia. Expression in mice of the APL-associated fusion, PML-RARA, initially has only modest effects on myelopoiesis. Whereas treatment of control animals with interleukin-3 (IL-3) resulted in expanded myelopoiesis without a block in differentiation, PML-RARA abrogated differentiation that normally characterizes the response to IL-3. Retroviral transduction of bone marrow with an IL-3-expressing retrovirus revealed that IL-3 and promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha (PML-RARalpha) combined to generate a lethal leukemia-like syndrome in <21 days. We also observed that a constitutively activated mutant IL-3 receptor, beta(c)V449E, cooperated with PML-RARalpha in leukemogenesis, whereas a different activated mutant, beta(c)I374N, did not. Analysis of additional mutations introduced into beta(c)V449E showed that, although tyrosine phosphorylation of beta(c) is necessary for cooperation, the Src homology 2 domain-containing transforming protein binding site is dispensable. Our results indicate that chimeric transcription factors can block the differentiative effects of growth factors. This combination can be potently leukemogenic, but the particular manner in which these types of mutations interact determines the ability of such combinations to generate acute myeloid leukemia.
The murine Nck SH2/SH3 adaptors are important for the development of mesoderm-derived embryonic structures and for regulating the cellular actin network.	Mammalian Nck1 and Nck2 are closely related adaptor proteins that possess three SH3 domains, followed by an SH2 domain, and are implicated in coupling phosphotyrosine signals to polypeptides that regulate the actin cytoskeleton. However, the in vivo functions of Nck1 and Nck2 have not been defined. We have mutated the murine Nck1 and Nck2 genes and incorporated beta-galactosidase reporters into the mutant loci. In mouse embryos, the two Nck genes have broad and overlapping expression patterns. They are functionally redundant in the sense that mice deficient for either Nck1 or Nck2 are viable, whereas inactivation of both Nck1 and Nck2 results in profound defects in mesoderm-derived notochord and embryonic lethality at embryonic day 9.5. Fibroblast cell lines derived from Nck1(-/-) Nck2(-/-) embryos have defects in cell motility and in the organization of the lamellipodial actin network. These data suggest that the Nck SH2/SH3 adaptors have important functions in the development of mesodermal structures during embryogenesis, potentially linked to a role in cell movement and cytoskeletal organization.
Phosphotyrosyl mimetics in the development of signal transduction inhibitors.	Phosphotyrosyl (pTyr) residues play important roles in cellular signal transduction by facilitating recognition and binding necessary for critical protein-protein interactions, and for this reason pTyr motifs represent attractive starting points in the development of signaling antagonists. Although the pTyr phosphoryl moiety is central in these phenomena, its incorporation into signaling inhibitors is contraindicated due to enzymatic lability and limited bioavailability associated with phosphate esters. To address these limitations, an entire field of study has arisen devoted to the design and utilization of pTyr mimetics. This Account provides a perspective on the roles of pTyr residues in signal transduction and approaches to pTyr mimetic development.
c-Abl stabilizes p73 by a phosphorylation-augmented interaction.	The proapoptotic function of c-Abl is in part mediated by its functional interaction with p73, a p53 homologue. Although it has been shown that c-Abl-mediated p73 activation in response to genotoxic stress is associated with an increase of p73 protein levels, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We show here that c-Abl increases the cellular p73 abundance through a mode of posttranslational regulation. Analogous to its functional activation of p73, the kinase activity is essential for c-Abl to up-regulate p73 protein levels. Analysis of phosphorylation-resistant mutants of p73 reveals that the effect of c-Abl is mediated by its direct phosphorylation on the p73 protein. Consequence to the phosphorylation is a marked increase of the association between c-Abl and p73 via the binding of tyrosine-phosphorylated p73 to the c-Abl Src homology 2 (SH2) domain. Of functional importance of this phosphorylation-induced interaction in p73 stabilization is the demonstration that expression of a c-Abl SH2 domain peptide, which impedes phosphorylation-dependent association, results in an almost complete abrogation of c-Abl-dependent p73 accumulation. Importantly, expression of the c-Abl SH2 domain peptide also leads to an efficient inhibition of cisplatin-induced accumulation of endogenous p73, highlighting the biological significance. In keeping with its retained phosphorylation sites, the NH(2)-terminal truncated (Delta N) isoforms of p73, which are antiapoptotic, are also phosphorylated and stabilized by c-Abl, suggesting a possibility that c-Abl contributes to either pro- or antiapoptotic process depending on the expression profile of p73 isoforms.
Conformation and dynamics of the SH1-SH2 helix in scallop myosin.	Atomic structures of scallop myosin subfragment 1(S1) with the bound MgADP, MgAMPPNP, and MgADP.BeF(x) provide crystallographic evidence for a destabilization of the helix containing reactive thiols SH1 (Cys703) and SH2 (Cys693). A destabilization of this helix was not observed in previous structures of S1 (from chicken skeletal, Dictyostelium discoideum, and smooth muscle myosins), including complexes for which solution experiments indicated such a destabilization. In this study, the factors that influence the SH1-SH2 helix in scallop S1 were examined using monofunctional and bifunctional thiol reagents. The rate of monofunctional labeling of scallop S1 was increased in the presence of MgADP and MgATPgammaS but was inhibited by MgADP.V(i) and actin. The resulting changes in ATPase activities of S1 were symptomatic of SH2 and not SH1 modification, which was confirmed by mass spectrometry analysis. With bifunctional reagents of various lengths, cross-linking did not occur on a short time scale in the absence of nucleotides. In the presence of MgADP, cross-linking was greatly enhanced for all of the reagents. These reactions, as well as the formation of a disulfide bond between SH1 and SH2, were much faster in scallop S1.ADP than in rabbit skeletal S1.ADP and were rate-limited by the initial attachment of the reagent to scallop S1. The cross-linking sites were mapped by mass spectrometry to SH1 and SH2. These results reveal isoform-specific differences in the conformation and dynamics of the SH1-SH2 helix, providing a possible explanation for destabilization of this helix in some scallop S1 but not in other S1 isoform structures.
1H detection in MAS solid-state NMR spectroscopy of biomacromolecules employing pulsed field gradients for residual solvent suppression.	In this communication, we demonstrate the feasibility of 1H detection in MAS solid-state NMR for a microcrystalline, uniformly 2H,15N-labeled sample of a SH3 domain of chicken alpha-spectrin, using pulsed field gradients for suppression of water magnetization. Today, B0 gradients are employed routinely in solution-state NMR for coherence order selection and solvent suppression. We suggest to use gradients to purge water magnetization which cannot be suppressed using conventional water suppression schemes. The achievable gain in sensitivity for 1H detection is in the order of 5 compared to the 15N detected version of the experiment (at a MAS rotation frequency of 13.5 kHz). We expect that this labeling concept which achieves high sensitivity due to 1H detection, in combination with the possibility to measure long range 1H-1H distances as we have shown previously, to be a useful tool for the determination of protein structures in the solid state.
iSPOT: A web tool to infer the interaction specificity of families of protein modules.	iSPOT (http://cbm.bio.uniroma2.it/ispot) is a web tool developed to infer the recognition specificity of protein module families; it is based on the SPOT procedure that utilizes information from position-specific contacts, derived from the available domain/ligand complexes of known structure, and experimental interaction data to build a database of residue-residue contact frequencies. iSPOT is available to infer the interaction specificity of PDZ, SH3 and WW domains. For each family of protein domains, iSPOT evaluates the probability of interaction between a query domain of the specified families and an input protein/peptide sequence and makes it possible to search for potential binding partners of a given domain within the SWISS-PROT database. The experimentally derived interaction data utilized to build the PDZ, SH3 and WW databases of residue-residue contact frequencies are also accessible. Here we describe the application to the WW family of protein modules.
The 'Shp'ing news: SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatases in cell signaling.	Src homology-2 (SH2) domain-containing phosphatases (Shps) are a small, highly conserved subfamily of protein-tyrosine phosphatases, members of which are present in both vertebrates and invertebrates. The mechanism of regulation of Shps by ligand binding is now well understood. Much is also known about the normal signaling pathways regulated by each Shp and the consequences of Shp deficiency. Recent studies have identified mutations in human Shp2 as the cause of the inherited disorder Noonan syndrome. Shp2 mutations might also contribute to the pathogenesis of some leukemias. In addition, Shp2 might be a key virulence determinant for the important human pathogen Helicobacter pylori. Despite these efforts, however, the key targets of each Shp have remained elusive. Identifying these substrates remains a major challenge for future research.
PTP1B: from the sidelines to the front lines!	Although initially viewed as housekeeping enzymes, research over the last 15 years has revealed that the protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are critical regulators of tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent signaling events and may represent novel targets for therapeutic intervention in a variety of human diseases. In this review I will describe some of the key advances in the characterization of the structure, regulation and function of the prototypic PTP, PTP1B, and illustrate how our understanding of the properties of this enzyme has revealed principles that apply to the PTP family as a whole.
Posttransition state desolvation of the hydrophobic core of the src-SH3 protein domain.	The folding thermodynamics of the src-SH3 protein domain were characterized under refolding conditions through biased fully atomic molecular dynamics simulations with explicit solvent. The calculated free energy surfaces along several reaction coordinates revealed two barriers. The first, larger barrier was identified as the transition state barrier for folding, associated with the formation of the first hydrophobic sheet of the protein. phi values calculated from structures residing at the transition state barrier agree well with experimental phi values. The microscopic information obtained from our simulations allowed us to unambiguously assign intermediate phi values as the result of multiple folding pathways. The second, smaller barrier occurs later in the folding process and is associated with the cooperative expulsion of water molecules between the hydrophobic sheets of the protein. This posttransition state desolvation barrier cannot be observed through traditional folding experiments, but is found to be critical to the correct packing of the hydrophobic core in the final stages of folding. Hydrogen exchange and NMR experiments are suggested to probe this barrier.
Reexamination of the recognition preference of the specificity pocket of the Abl SH3 domain.	Src homology-3 (SH3) domains mediate important protein-protein interactions in a variety of normal and pathological cellular processes, thus providing an attractive target for the selective interference of SH3-dependent signaling events that govern these processes. Most SH3 domains recognize proline-rich peptides with low affinity and poor selectivity, and the goal to design potent and specific ligands for various SH3 domains remains elusive. Better understanding of the molecular basis for SH3 domain recognition is needed in order to design such ligands with potency and specificity. In this report, we seek to define a clear recognition preference of the specificity pocket of the Abl SH3 domain using targeted synthetic peptide libraries. High-resolution affinity panning coupled with mass spectrometric readout allows for quick identification of Trp as the preferred fourth residue in the decapeptide ligand APTWSPPPPP, which binds to Abl SH3 four times stronger than does the decapeptide containing Tyr or Phe in the fourth position. This finding is in contrast to several reports that Tyr is the only residue selected from phage displayed peptide libraries that interacts with the specificity pocket of Abl SH3. This simple, unbiased approach can fine-tune the affinity and selectivity of both natural and unnatural SH3 ligands whose consensus binding sequence has been pre-defined by combinatorial library methods.
Measurement of dissociation constants of inhibitors binding to Src SH2 domain protein by non-covalent electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.	A mass spectrometric protocol for identifying ligands with a wide range of affinities (3-101 microM) and quantitative spectral analysis for non-covalent interactions have been developed using Src SH2 as a target. Dissociation constants of five compounds, three with a phospho moiety, one with a sulphonic acid group and one with carboxylic acid groups only, were determined using one-ligand one-binding-site, two-ligands one-binding site and one-ligand two-binding-sites models. The Kd values determined by ESI-MS of the three compounds containing the phospho moiety (3.2-7.9 microM) were comparable to those obtained from a solution equilibrium fluorescence polarization assay. The compound with a sulphonate group is a much weaker binding ligand (Kd=101 microM by ESI, >>300 microM by FP) towards the Src SH2 protein. Two complexes with different stoichiometric ratios 1:1 and 2:1 (ligand-protein) were observed by ESI-MS for the ligand GIXXX630X. Analysis of binding isotherms indicated the presence of two binding sites for the ligand with Kd values of 9.3 and 193 microM. These data confirmed that, for these polar compounds, non-covalent ESI-MS can measure affinity which very closely reflects the affinity measured under true solution equilibrium conditions. ESI-MS has several key advantages over many solution methods: it can identify the existence of and measure the affinity of complexes other than simple 1:1 ligand-enzyme complexes. Moreover, ESI-MS competition experiments can be readily performed to yield data on whether two ligands bind simultaneously or competitively at the same time as measuring the affinity of the ligand.
The structure of the membrane distal phosphatase domain of RPTPalpha reveals interdomain flexibility and an SH2 domain interaction region.	The receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase alpha (RPTPalpha) is a transmembrane receptor with two intracellular protein tyrosine phosphatase domains, a catalytically active membrane proximal domain (D1) and a membrane distal phosphatase domain with minimal catalytic activity (D2). Here we elucidate the crystal structure of RPTPalpha's D2 domain. Unlike D1, D2 exists as a monomer and lacks the N-terminal inhibitory wedge motif. The N-terminal portion of D2 is disordered, and this region linking D1 to D2 is proteolytically labile in solution whether part of D2 alone or tethered to D1, indicating that the polypeptide backbone of this part of D2 is highly flexible, and therefore accessible to proteases under native conditions. Furthermore, we have crystallized the SH2 domain of the protein tyrosine kinase c-Src, a RPTPalpha substrate, with a phosphopeptide encompassing the C-terminal phosphorylation site of D2 (pTyr789). The SH2 domain of Src binds RPTPalpha in an extended conformation. The structural and functional data support a D1-D2 arrangement with significant flexibility between phosphatase domains of RPTPalpha that is likely to be important for dynamic alterations in intra- and/or intermolecular interactions that are critical for RPTPalpha function.
The critical role of c-Src and the Shc/Grb2/ERK2 signaling pathway in angiotensin II-dependent VSMC proliferation.	Angiotensin II promotes vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation through the actions of the G protein-coupled AT(1) receptor. Recent evidence suggest that the tyrosine kinase c-Src may mediate this proliferative response. c-Src can signal through multiple intracellular signaling pathways including (1) the Shc/Grb2/ERK2 pathway, (2) the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs), (3) the focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling pathway, and (4) the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway. In this study, we sought to determine the extent to which c-Src mediates vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation through the Shc/Grb2/ERK2 signaling pathway. Here we demonstrate that treatment of vascular smooth muscle cells with angiotensin II results in activation of the Shc/Grb2/ERK2 signaling pathway as measured by (1) increased Shc tyrosine phosphorylation, (2) increased c-Src/Shc cellular co-localization, (3) increased Shc/Grb2 co-association, and (4) ERK2 activation. Furthermore, these events are critically dependent on c-Src as pharmacological inhibition of c-Src activity blocked all these cellular occurrences. Most importantly, angiotensin II-dependent cellular proliferation was measured in the presence and absence of c-Src and MEK pharmacological inhibitors. We found that pharmacological inhibition of either c-Src or ERK2 completely eliminated angiotensin II-dependent cellular proliferation. Thus, the data suggest that c-Src and the Shc/Grb2/ERK2 signaling pathway play a critical role in angiotensin II-mediated VSMC proliferation.
Determinants of the SRC homology domain 3-like fold.	In eukaryotes, the Src homology domain 3 (SH3) is a very important motif in signal transduction. SH3 domains recognize poly-proline-rich peptides and are involved in protein-protein interactions. Until now, the existence of SH3 domains has not been demonstrated in prokaryotes. However, the structure of the C-terminal domain of DtxR clearly shows that the fold of this domain is very similar to that of the SH3 domain. In addition, there is evidence that the C-terminal domain of DtxR binds to poly-proline-rich regions. Other bacterial proteins have domains that are structurally similar to the SH3 domain but whose functions are unknown or differ from that of the SH3 domain. The observed similarities between the structures of the C-terminal domain of DtxR and the SH3 domain constitute a perfect system to gain insight into their function and information about their evolution. Our results show that the C-terminal domain of DtxR shares a number of conserved key hydrophobic positions not recognizable from sequence comparison that might be responsible for the integrity of the SH3-like fold. Structural alignment of an ensemble of such domains from unrelated proteins shows a common structural core that seems to be conserved despite the lack of sequence similarity. This core constitutes the minimal requirements of protein architecture for the SH3-like fold.
The automatic discovery of structural principles describing protein fold space.	The study of protein structure has been driven largely by the careful inspection of experimental data by human experts. However, the rapid determination of protein structures from structural-genomics projects will make it increasingly difficult to analyse (and determine the principles responsible for) the distribution of proteins in fold space by inspection alone. Here, we demonstrate a machine-learning strategy that automatically determines the structural principles describing 45 folds. The rules learnt were shown to be both statistically significant and meaningful to protein experts. With the increasing emphasis on high-throughput experimental initiatives, machine-learning and other automated methods of analysis will become increasingly important for many biological problems.
Protein phosphatase-2A regulates protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in Lewis lung carcinoma tumor variants.	Cellular adherence and motility are processes that are controlled by focal adhesion assembly and disassembly. Consequently, the dynamics of focal adhesions regulate tumor cell metastasis and are influenced by the tyrosine phosphorylation state of paxillin. Metastatic LLC cells are more migratory and have reduced paxillin tyrosine phosphorylation as compared to nonmetastatic LLC cells. In nonmetastatic Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) tumor cells, inhibition of the serine/threonine protein phosphatase-2A (PP-2A) activity results in increased motility that is associated with a reduction in the phosphotyrosine content of paxillin. Studies to determine if PP-2A can regulate protein tyrosine phosphatase activity showed that blocking PP-2A activity of nonmetastatic LLC-C8 tumor cells with okadaic acid reduces protein tyrosine phosphatase activity. Among the tyrosine phosphatases whose activity was inhibited upon PP-2A inhibition is Shp-2. In contrast, protein levels of Shp-2 are unaffected by PP-2A inhibition. While these results do not fully identify how inhibition of PP-2A results in tyrosine dephosphorylation of paxillin, they do demonstrate that PP-2A can link serine/threonine and tyrosine signaling pathways by regulating protein tyrosine phosphatases.
Ligand screening by exoproteolysis and mass spectrometry in combination with computer modelling.	Here, we present a new approach for protein ligand screening based on the use of limited exoproteolysis coupled to MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, combined with computational modelling and prediction of binding energies. As a test for this combined approach, we have screened a combinatorial library containing 8000 peptides (organized in 60 peptide samples) based on positional scanning format. This library is attached to a poly-Pro framework, and screened against the Abl-SH3 domain. The results obtained demonstrated the validity of the experimental and theoretical approaches in identifying better ligands and in rationalizing the changes in affinity. Exoproteolysis coupled to MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry could be used to screen complex libraries in a fast and efficient way.
SAP97 increases Kv1.5 currents through an indirect N-terminal mechanism.	The functional interaction of the voltage-gated potassium channel hKv1.5 with the PDZ domain containing protein SAP97 has been investigated. In marked contrast with the known dependence of SAP97-induced Kv1 potassium current down-regulation on the channel C-termini, SAP97 increased hKv1.5 current through an indirect interaction with the Kv1.5 N-terminus. Deletion of the Kv1.5 N-terminus eliminated the SAP97-mediated increase in potassium currents whereas deletion of the channel's C-terminal PDZ binding motif had no effect. In contrast with other Kv1-SAP97 interactions, no physical interaction could be detected in vivo or in vitro between the two proteins. The proteins did not co-localize in cardiac myocytes nor did they co-immunoprecipitate from transfected HEK cells. Yeast two-hybrid experiments also failed to detect any interaction between the two proteins, but in one experiment of six, Kv1.5 co-immunoprecipitated very inefficiently with SAP97 from rat ventricular myocytes. Thus, we conclude that the influence of SAP97 on Kv1.5 potassium current levels is dependent upon a novel regulatory mechanism.
Roles of the proline-rich domain in SLP-76 subcellular localization and T cell function.	The adaptor protein Src homology (SH)2 domain-containing and leukocyte-specific phosphoprotein of 76 kDa (SLP-76) is critical for signal transduction in multiple hematopoietic lineages. It links proximal and distal T cell receptor signaling events through its function as a molecular scaffold in the assembly of multimolecular signaling complexes. Here we studied the functional roles of sub-domains within the SLP-76 proline-rich region, specifically the Gads binding domain and the recently defined P1 domain. To gain a further understanding of the functions mediated by this region, we used three complementary approaches as follows: reconstitution of SLP-76-deficient cells with functional domain deletion mutants, blocking molecular associations through the expression of a dominant negative protein fragment, and directed localization of SLP-76 to assess the role of the domains in SLP-76 recruitment. We find the Gads binding domain and the P1 domain are both necessary for optimal SLP-76 function, and in the absence of these two regions, SLP-76 is functionally inert. Furthermore, we provide direct evidence that SLP-76 localization and, in turn, function are dependent upon association with Gads.
Recruitment of the actin-binding protein HIP-55 to the immunological synapse regulates T cell receptor signaling and endocytosis.	Actin cytoskeleton dynamics critically regulate T cell activation. We found that the cytoplasmic adaptor HIP-55, a Src/Syk-kinases substrate and member of the drebrin/Abp1 family of actin-binding proteins, localized to the T cell-antigen-presenting cell (APC) contact site in an antigen-dependent manner. Using green fluorescent protein fusion proteins, both Src homology 3 (SH3) and actin binding domains were found necessary for recruitment at the T cell-APC interface. HIP-55 was not implicated in conjugate formation and actin polymerization but regulated distal signaling events through binding and activation of hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1), a germinal center kinase (GCK) family kinase involved in negative signaling in T cells. Using RNA interference and overexpression experiments, the HIP-55-HPK1 complex was found to negatively regulate nuclear factor of activated T cell (NFAT) activation by the T cell antigen receptor. Moreover, we show that HIP-55, which partly co-localized with early endocytic compartments, promoted both basal and ligand-dependent T cell receptor (TCR) down-modulation, resulting in a decreased TCR expression. SH3 and actin-depolymerizing factor homology domains were required for this function. As controls, the expression of CD28 and the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked protein CD59 was not affected by HIP-55 overexpression. These results suggest that, in addition to binding to HPK1, HIP-55 might negatively regulate TCR signaling through down-regulation of TCR expression. Our findings show that HIP-55 is a key novel component of the immunological synapse that modulates T cell activation by connecting actin cytoskeleton and TCRs to gene activation and endocytic processes.
Protein interaction networks by proteome peptide scanning.	A substantial proportion of protein interactions relies on small domains binding to short peptides in the partner proteins. Many of these interactions are relatively low affinity and transient, and they impact on signal transduction. However, neither the number of potential interactions mediated by each domain nor the degree of promiscuity at a whole proteome level has been investigated. We have used a combination of phage display and SPOT synthesis to discover all the peptides in the yeast proteome that have the potential to bind to eight SH3 domains. We first identified the peptides that match a relaxed consensus, as deduced from peptides selected by phage display experiments. Next, we synthesized all the matching peptides at high density on a cellulose membrane, and we probed them directly with the SH3 domains. The domains that we have studied were grouped by this approach into five classes with partially overlapping specificity. Within the classes, however, the domains display a high promiscuity and bind to a large number of common targets with comparable affinity. We estimate that the yeast proteome contains as few as six peptides that bind to the Abp1 SH3 domain with a dissociation constant lower than 100 microM, while it contains as many as 50-80 peptides with corresponding affinity for the SH3 domain of Yfr024c. All the targets of the Abp1 SH3 domain, identified by this approach, bind to the native protein in vivo, as shown by coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Finally, we demonstrate that this strategy can be extended to the analysis of the entire human proteome. We have developed an approach, named WISE (whole interactome scanning experiment), that permits rapid and reliable identification of the partners of any peptide recognition module by peptide scanning of a proteome. Since the SPOT synthesis approach is semiquantitative and provides an approximation of the dissociation constants of the several thousands of interactions that are simultaneously analyzed in an array format, the likelihood of each interaction occurring in any given physiological settings can be evaluated. WISE can be easily extended to a variety of protein interaction domains, including those binding to modified peptides, thereby offering a powerful proteomic tool to help completing a full description of the cell interactome.
SH2-containing inositol phosphatase 2 predominantly regulates Akt2, and not Akt1, phosphorylation at the plasma membrane in response to insulin in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.	SH2-containing inositol phosphatase 2 (SHIP2) is a physiologically important negative regulator of insulin signaling by hydrolyzing the phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase product PI 3,4,5-trisphosphate in the target tissues of insulin. Targeted disruption of the SHIP2 gene in mice resulted in increased insulin sensitivity without affecting biological systems other than insulin signaling. Therefore, we investigated the molecular mechanisms by which SHIP2 specifically regulates insulin-induced metabolic signaling in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Insulin-induced phosphorylation of Akt, one of the molecules downstream of PI3-kinase, was inhibited by expression of wild-type SHIP2, whereas it was increased by expression of 5'-phosphatase-defective (DeltaIP) SHIP2 in whole cell lysates. The regulatory effect of SHIP2 was mainly seen in the plasma membrane (PM) and low density microsomes but not in the cytosol. In this regard, following insulin stimulation, a proportion of Akt2, and not Akt1, appeared to redistribute from the cytosol to the PM. Thus, insulin-induced phosphorylation of Akt2 at the PM was predominantly regulated by SHIP2, whereas the phosphorylation of Akt1 was only minimally affected. Interestingly, insulin also elicited a subcellular redistribution of both wild-type and DeltaIP-SHIP2 from the cytosol to the PM. The degree of this redistribution was inhibited in part by pretreatment with PI3-kinase inhibitor. Although the expression of a constitutively active form of PI3-kinase myr-p110 also elicited a subcellular redistribution of SHIP2 to the PM, expression of SHIP2 appeared to affect the myr-p110-induced phosphorylation, and not the translocation, of Akt2. Furthermore, insulin-induced phosphorylation of Akt was effectively regulated by SHIP2 in embryonic fibroblasts derived from knockout mice lacking either insulin receptor substrate-1 or insulin receptor substrate-2. These results indicate that insulin specifically stimulates the redistribution of SHIP2 from the cytosol to the PM independent of 5'-phosphatase activity, thereby regulating the insulin-induced translocation and phosphorylation of Akt2 at the PM.
A novel actin bundling/filopodium-forming domain conserved in insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate p53 and missing in metastasis protein.	Insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate p53 (IRSp53) has been identified as an SH3 domain-containing adaptor that links Rac1 with a Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome family verprolin-homologous protein 2 (WAVE2) to induce lamellipodia or Cdc42 with Mena to induce filopodia. The recruitment of these SH3-binding partners by IRSp53 is thought to be crucial for F-actin rearrangements. Here, we show that the N-terminal predicted helical stretch of 250 amino acids of IRSp53 is an evolutionarily conserved F-actin bundling domain involved in filopodium formation. Five proteins including IRSp53 and missing in metastasis (MIM) protein share this unique domain and are highly conserved in vertebrates. We named the conserved domain IRSp53/MIM homology domain (IMD). The IMD has domain relatives in invertebrates but does not show obvious homology to any known actin interacting proteins. The IMD alone, derived from either IRSp53 or MIM, induced filopodia in HeLa cells and the formation of tightly packed parallel F-actin bundles in vitro. These results suggest that IRSp53 and MIM belong to a novel actin bundling protein family. Furthermore, we found that filopodium-inducing IMD activity in the full-length IRSp53 was regulated by active Cdc42 and Rac1. The SH3 domain was not necessary for IMD-induced filopodium formation. Our results indicate that IRSp53, when activated by small GTPases, participates in F-actin reorganization not only in an SH3-dependent manner but also in a manner dependent on the activity of the IMD.
The Rsp5 ubiquitin ligase binds to and ubiquitinates members of the yeast CIN85-endophilin complex, Sla1-Rvs167.	Sla1 and Rvs167 are yeast proteins required for receptor internalization and organization of the actin cytoskeleton. Here we provide evidence that Sla1 and Rvs167 are orthologues of the mammalian CIN85 and endophilin proteins, respectively, which are required for ligand-stimulated growth factor receptor internalization. Sla1 is similar in domain structure to CIN85 and binds directly to the endophilin-like Rvs167. Akin to CIN85, Sla1 interacts with synaptojanins and a ubiquitin ligase that regulates endocytosis. This ubiquitin ligase, Rsp5, binds directly to both Sla1 and Rvs167. The interaction between Rsp5 and Rvs167 is mediated through Rsp5 WW domains and PXY motifs in the central Gly-Pro-Ala-rich domain of Rvs167. Rvs167 PXY motifs are required for Rsp5-dependent monoubiquitination of Rvs167 on Lys481 in the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain. Mutation of Lys481 --> Arg causes cells to grow slowly on medium containing 1 M NaCl, although this phenotype is not due to the defect in ubiquitination caused by the K481R mutation. We propose that Rsp5 interaction with Sla1-Rvs167 promotes Rvs167 ubiquitination and regulates activity of this protein complex. Rvs167 ubiquitination is not required for general function of Rvs167, but may control specific Rvs167 SH3 domain-protein interactions or negatively regulate SH3 domain activity.
Structural basis for differential recognition of tyrosine-phosphorylated sites in the linker for activation of T cells (LAT) by the adaptor Gads.	The transmembrane protein, linker for activation of T cells (LAT), is essential for T-cell activation and development. Phosphorylation of LAT at multiple tyrosines creates binding sites for the adaptors Gads and Grb2, leading to nucleation of multiprotein signaling complexes. Human LAT contains five potential binding sites for Gads, of which only those at Tyr171 and Tyr191 appear necessary for T-cell function. We asked whether Gads binds preferentially to these sites, as differential recognition could assist in assembling defined LAT-based complexes. Measured calorimetrically, Gads-SH2 binds LAT tyrosine phosphorylation sites 171 and 191 with higher affinities than the other sites, with the differences ranging from only several fold weaker binding to no detectable interaction. Crystal structures of Gads-SH2 complexed with phosphopeptides representing sites 171, 191 and 226 were determined to 1.8-1.9 A resolutions. The structures reveal the basis for preferential recognition of specific LAT sites by Gads, as well as for the relatively greater promiscuity of the related adaptor Grb2, whose binding also requires asparagine at position +2 C-terminal to the phosphorylated tyrosine.
Temperature dependence of the free energy landscape of the src-SH3 protein domain.	The temperature dependence of the free energy landscape of the src-SH3 protein domain is investigated through fully atomic simulations in explicit solvent. Simulations are performed above and below the folding transition temperature, enabling an analysis of both protein folding and unfolding. The transition state for folding and unfolding, identified from the free energy surfaces, is found to be very similar, with structure in the central hydrophobic sheet and little structure throughout the rest of the protein. This is a result of a polarized folding (unfolding) mechanism involving early formation (late loss) of the central hydrophobic sheet at the transition state. Unfolding simulations map qualitatively well onto low-temperature free energy surfaces but appear, however, to miss important features observed in folding simulations. In particular, details of the folding mechanism involving the opening and closing of the hydrophobic core are not captured by unfolding simulations performed under strongly denaturing conditions. In addition, free energy surfaces at high temperatures do not display a desolvation barrier found at lower temperatures, involving the expulsion of water molecules from the hydrophobic core.
Progressive combinatorial algorithm for multiple structural alignments: application to distantly related proteins.	MALECON is a progressive combinatorial procedure for multiple alignments of protein structures. It searches a library of pairwise alignments for all three-protein alignments in which a specified number of residues is consistently aligned. These alignments are progressively expanded to include additional proteins and more spatially equivalent residues, subject to certain criteria. This action involves superimposing the aligned proteins by their hitherto equivalent residues and searching for additional Calpha atoms that lie close in space. The performance of MALECON is illustrated and compared with several extant multiple structure alignment methods by using as test the globin homologous superfamily, the OB and the Jellyrolls folds. MALECON gives better definitions of the common structural features in the structurally more diverse proteins of the OB and Jellyrolls folds, but it yields comparable results for the more similar globins. When no consistent multiple alignments can be derived for all members of a protein group, our procedure is still capable of automatically generating consistent alignments and common core definitions for subgroups of the members. This finding is illustrated for proteins of the OB fold and SH3 domains, believed to share common structural features, and should be very instrumental in homology modeling and investigations of protein evolution.
Macrocyclization in the design of non-phosphorus-containing Grb2 SH2 domain-binding ligands.	Macrocyclization from the phosphotyrosyl (pTyr) mimetic's beta-position has previously been shown to enhance Grb2 SH2 domain-binding affinity of phosphonate-based analogues. The current study examined the effects of such macrocyclization using a dicarboxymethyl-based pTyr mimetic. In extracellular assays affinity was enhanced approximately 5-fold relative to an open-chain congener. Enhancement was also observed in whole-cell assays examining blockade of Grb2 binding to the erbB-2 protein-tyrosine kinase.
Solution structure and backbone dynamics of the non-receptor protein-tyrosine kinase-6 Src homology 2 domain.	Human protein-tyrosine kinase-6 (PTK6, also known as breast tumor kinase (Brk)) is a member of the non-receptor protein-tyrosine kinase family and is expressed in two-thirds of all breast tumors. To understand the structural basis of PTK6 function, we have determined the solution structure and backbone dynamics of the PTK6-Src homology 2 (SH2) domain using multidimensional NMR spectroscopy. The solution structure clearly indicates that the SH2 domain of human PTK6 contains a consensus alpha/beta-fold and a Tyr(P) peptide binding surface, which are common to other SH2 domains. However, two of the alpha-helices (alphaA and alphaB) are located on opposite faces of the central beta-sheet. In addition, the topological arrangement of a central four-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet (strands betaA, betaB, betaC, and betaD) differs from that of other Src family members. Backbone dynamics and Tyr(P) peptide titration experiments revealed that the putative ligand binding sites of the PTK6-SH2 domain undergo distinctive internal motions when compared with other regions of the protein. Surface plasmon resonance analysis showed that the Tyr(P) peptide had a dissociation constant of about 60 microm, which is substantially weaker binding than previously reported for Src family members. The solution structure together with data from the ligand binding mode of PTK6-SH2 provides insight into the molecular basis of the autoinhibitory role of PTK6.
Mona/Gads SH3C binding to hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) combines an atypical SH3 binding motif, R/KXXK, with a classical PXXP motif embedded in a polyproline type II (PPII) helix.	Hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK1) is implicated in signaling downstream of the T cell receptor. Its non-catalytic, C-terminal half contains several prolinerich motifs, which have been shown to interact with different SH3 domain-containing adaptor proteins in vitro. One of these, Mona/Gads, was also shown to bind HPK1 in mouse T cells in vivo. The region of HPK1 that binds to the Mona/Gads C-terminal SH3 domain has been mapped and shows only very limited similarity to a recently identified high affinity binding motif in SLP-76, another T-cell adaptor. Using isothermal titration calorimetry and x-ray crystallography, the binding of the HPK1 motif to Mona/Gads SH3C has now been characterized in molecular detail. The results indicate that although charge interactions through an RXXK motif are essential for complex formation, a PXXP motif in HPK1 strongly complements binding. This unexpected binding mode therefore differs considerably from the previously described interaction of Mona/Gads SH3C with SLP-76. The crystal structure of the complex highlights the great versatility of SH3 domains, which allows interactions with very different proteins. This currently limits our ability to categorize SH3 binding properties by simple rules.
Solution structure of the tandem Src homology 3 domains of p47phox in an autoinhibited form.	The phagocyte NADPH oxidase is a multisubunit enzyme responsible for the generation of superoxide anions (O(2).) that kill invading microorganisms. p47(phox) is a cytosolic subunit of the phagocyte NADPH oxidase, which plays a crucial role in the assembly of the activated NADPH oxidase complex. The molecular shapes of the p47(phox) tandem SH3 domains either with or without a polybasic/autoinhibitory region (PBR/AIR) at the C terminus were studied using small angle x-ray scattering. The tandem SH3 domains with PBR/AIR formed a compact globular structure, whereas the tandem SH3 domains lacking the PBR/AIR formed an elongated structure. Alignment anisotropy analysis by NMR based on the residual dipolar couplings revealed that the tandem SH3 domains with PBR/AIR were in good agreement with a globular module corresponding to the split half of the intertwisted dimer in crystalline state. The structure of the globular module was elucidated to represent a solution structure of the tandem SH3 domain in the autoinhibited form, where the PBR/AIR bundled the tandem SH3 domains and the linker forming a closed structure. Once PBR/AIR is released by phosphorylation, rearrangements of the SH3 domains may occur, forming an open structure that binds to the cytoplasmic proline-rich region of membrane-bound p22(phox).
Overexpression of myosin IB in living Entamoeba histolytica enhances cytoplasm viscosity and reduces phagocytosis.	The human parasite Entamoeba histolytica is an ancient protozoan that expresses only one unconventional myosin, which has homology with myosin IB from other amoebae. Myosin IB is involved in phagocytosis of human cells by E. histolytica. In this work, we developed a microrheological technique, analysing magnetic phagosomes, which allowed us to probe the density of the F-actin network in living cells. Using this technique, we showed that overexpression of myosin IB led to an increase in cytoplasm viscosity, which correlated with a delay in initiating human cell phagocytosis. To investigate which myosin IB domains sustain cell viscosity changes, we overexpressed truncated forms of the protein. Our results demonstrate that both actin-binding sites that are present in the heavy chain but not the SH3 domain are required to modulate the density of the actin network. These data suggested that, as well as the motor activity, myosin IB in E. histolytica plays a structural role on the actin network owing to its ability to cross-link filaments. The gelation state of cell cytoplasm and the dynamics of cortical F-actin during phagocytosis seem to be modulated by the myosin IB structuring cytoskeleton activity.
Structural mining: self-consistent design on flexible protein-peptide docking and transferable binding affinity potential.	A flexible protein-peptide docking method has been designed to consider not only ligand flexibility but also the flexibility of the protein. The method is based on a Monte Carlo annealing process. Simulations with a distance root-mean-square (dRMS) virtual energy function revealed that the flexibility of protein side chains was as important as ligand flexibility for successful protein-peptide docking. On the basis of mean field theory, a transferable potential was designed to evaluate distance-dependent protein-ligand interactions and atomic solvation energies. The potential parameters were developed using a self-consistent process based on only 10 known complex structures. The effectiveness of each intermediate potential was judged on the basis of a Z score, approximating the gap between the energy of the native complex and the average energy of a decoy set. The Z score was determined using experimentally determined native structures and decoys generated by docking with the intermediate potentials. Using 6600 generated decoys and the Z score optimization criterion proposed in this work, the developed potential yielded an acceptable correlation of R(2) = 0.77, with binding free energies determined for known MHC I complexes (Class I Major Histocompatibility protein HLA-A(*)0201) which were not present in the training set. Test docking on 25 complexes further revealed a significant correlation between energy and dRMS, important for identifying native-like conformations. The near-native structures always belonged to one of the conformational classes with lower predicted binding energy. The lowest energy docked conformations are generally associated with near-native conformations, less than 3.0 Angstrom dRMS (and in many cases less than 1.0 Angstrom) from the experimentally determined structures.
Multiple folding pathways of the SH3 domain.	Experimental observations suggest that proteins follow different folding pathways under different environmental conditions. We perform molecular dynamics simulations of a model of the c-Crk SH3 domain over a broad range of temperatures, and identify distinct pathways in the folding transition. We determine the kinetic partition temperature-the temperature for which the c-Crk SH3 domain undergoes a rapid folding transition with minimal kinetic barriers-and observe that below this temperature the model protein may undergo a folding transition by multiple folding pathways via only one or two intermediates. Our findings suggest the hypothesis that the SH3 domain, a protein fold for which only two-state folding kinetics was observed in previous experiments, may exhibit intermediate states under conditions that strongly stabilize the native state.
pH-dependent dimerization of the carboxyl terminal domain of Cx43.	Previous studies have demonstrated that the carboxyl terminus of the gap junction protein Cx43 (Cx43CT) can act as an independent, regulatory domain that modulates intercellular communication in response to appropriate chemical stimuli. Here, we have used NMR, chemical cross-linking, and analytical ultracentrifugation to further characterize the biochemical and biophysical properties of the Connexin43 carboxyl terminal domain (S255-I382). NMR-diffusion experiments at pH 5.8 suggested that the Connexin43 carboxyl terminus (CX43CT) may have a molecular weight greater than that of a monomer. Sedimentation equilibrium and cross-linking data demonstrated a predominantly dimeric state for the Cx43CT at pH 5.8 and 6.5, with limited dimer formation at a more neutral pH. NMR-filtered nuclear Overhauser effect studies confirmed these observations and identified specific areas of parallel orientation within Cx43CT, likely corresponding to dimerization domains. These regions included a portion of the SH3 binding domain, as well as two fragments previously found to organize in alpha-helical structures. Together, these data show that acidification causes Cx43CT dimer formation in vitro. Whether dimer formation is an important structural component of the regulation of Connexin43 channels remains to be determined. Dimerization may alter the affinity of Cx43CT regions for specific molecular partners, thus modifying the regulation of gap junction channels.
Regulation of stem cell factor receptor signaling by Cbl family proteins (Cbl-b/c-Cbl).	Activation of the KIT receptor tyrosine kinase contributes to the pathogenesis of several human diseases, but the mechanisms regulating KIT signaling have not been fully characterized. Here, we show that stem cell factor (SCF), the ligand for KIT, induces the interaction between KIT and Cbl proteins and their mutual degradation. Upon SCF stimulation, KIT binds to and induces the phosphorylation of Cbl proteins, which in turn act as E3 ligases, mediating the ubiquitination and degradation of KIT and themselves. Tyrosine kinase binding and RING finger domains of Cbl are essential for Cbl-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of KIT. We propose a negative feedback loop controlling the SCF-KIT signaling pathway, in which SCF activates KIT. The activated KIT in turn induces phosphorylation and activation of Cbl proteins. The Cbl proteins then bind and direct the degradation of activated KIT, leading to down-regulation of KIT signaling.
Perturbed myelo/erythropoiesis in Lyn-deficient mice is similar to that in mice lacking the inhibitory phosphatases SHP-1 and SHIP-1.	The Lyn tyrosine kinase plays essential inhibitory signaling roles within hematopoietic cells by recruiting inhibitory phosphatases such as SH2-domain containing phosphatase-1 (SHP-1), SHP-2, and SH2-domain containing 5'-inositol phosphatase (SHIP-1) to the plasma membrane in response to specific stimuli. Lyn-deficient mice display a collection of hematopoietic defects, including autoimmune disease as a result of autoantibody production, and perturbations in myelopoiesis that ultimately lead to splenomegaly and myeloid neoplasia. In this study, we demonstrate that loss of Lyn results in a stem/progenitor cell-intrinsic defect leading to an age-dependent increase in myeloid, erythroid, and primitive hematopoietic progenitor numbers that is independent of autoimmune disease. Despite possessing increased numbers of erythroid progenitors, and a more robust expansion of these cells following phenylhydrazine challenge, Lyn-deficient mice are more severely affected by the chemotherapeutic drug 5-fluorouracil, revealing a greater proportion of cycling progenitors. We also show that mice lacking SHIP-1 have defects in the erythroid and myeloid compartments similar to those in mice lacking Lyn or SHP-1, suggesting an intimate relationship between Lyn, SHP-1, and SHIP-1 in regulating hematopoiesis.
The adaptor protein 3BP2 associates with VAV guanine nucleotide exchange factors to regulate NFAT activation by the B-cell antigen receptor.	Engagement of the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) activates kinases of the Src and Syk families and signaling complexes assembled by adaptor proteins, which dictate B-cell fate and function. The adaptor 3BP2/SH3BP2, an Abl Src homology domain 3 (SH3)-binding and Syk-kinases interacting protein, exhibits positive regulatory roles in T, natural killer (NK), and basophilic cells. However, its involvement in BCR signaling is completely unknown. Here we show that 3BP2 is tyrosine phosphorylated following BCR aggregation on B lymphoma cells, and that 3BP2 is a substrate for Syk and Fyn, but not Btk. To further explore the function of 3BP2 in B cells, we screened a yeast 2-hybrid B-lymphocyte library and found 3BP2 as a binding partner of Vav proteins. The interaction between 3BP2 and Vav proteins involved both constitutive and inducible mechanisms. 3BP2 also interacted with other components of the BCR signaling pathway, including Syk and phospholipase C gamma (PLC-gamma). Furthermore, overexpression and RNAi blocking experiments showed that 3BP2 regulated BCR-mediated activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFATs). Finally, evidence was provided that 3BP2 functionally cooperates with Vav proteins and Rho GTPases to activate NFATs. Our results show that 3BP2 may regulate BCR-mediated gene activation through Vav proteins.
Phosphorylation of DNA topoisomerase I by the c-Abl tyrosine kinase confers camptothecin sensitivity.	DNA topoisomerase I (topo I) is involved in the regulation of DNA supercoiling, gene transcription, recombination, and DNA repair. The anticancer agent camptothecin specifically targets topo I. The mechanisms responsible for the regulation of topo I in cells, however, are not known. This study demonstrates that c-Abl-dependent phosphorylation up-regulates topo I activity. The c-Abl SH3 domain bound directly to the N-terminal region of topo I. The results demonstrate that c-Abl phosphorylated topo I at Tyr268 in core subdomain II. c-Abl-mediated phosphorylation of topo I Tyr268 in vitro and in cells conferred activation of the topo I isomerase function. Moreover, activation of c-Abl by treatment of cells with ionizing radiation was associated with c-Abl-dependent phosphorylation of topo I and induction of topo I activity. The functional significance of the c-Abl/topo I interaction is supported by the findings that (i) mutant topo I(Y268F) exhibited loss of c-Abl-induced topo I activity, and (ii) c-Abl-/- cells were deficient in the accumulation of protein-linked DNA breaks. In addition, loss of topo I phosphorylation in c-Abl-deficient cells conferred resistance to camptothecin-induced apoptosis. These findings collectively support a model in which c-Abl-mediated phosphorylation of topo I is functionally important to topo I activity and sensitivity to topo I poisons.
Acute pH-dependent regulation of AE2-mediated anion exchange involves discrete local surfaces of the NH2-terminal cytoplasmic domain.	We have previously defined in the NH2-terminal cytoplasmic domain of the mouse AE2/SLC4A2 anion exchanger a critical role for the highly conserved amino acids (aa) 336-347 in determining wild-type pH sensitivity of anion transport. We have now engineered hexa-Ala ((A)6) and individual amino acid substitutions to investigate the importance to pH-dependent regulation of AE2 activity of the larger surrounding region of aa 312-578. 4,4'-Diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS)-sensitive 36Cl- efflux from AE2-expressing Xenopus oocytes was monitored during changes in pHi or pHo in HEPES-buffered and in 5% CO2/HCO3- -buffered conditions. Wild-type AE2-mediated 36Cl- efflux was profoundly inhibited at low pHo, with a pHo(50) value = 6.75 +/- 0.05 and was stimulated up to 10-fold by intracellular alkalinization. Individual mutation of several amino acid residues at non-contiguous sites preceding or following the conserved sequence aa 336-347 attenuated pHi and/or pHo sensitivity of 36Cl- efflux. The largest attenuation of pH sensitivity occurred with the AE2 mutant (A)6357-362. This effect was phenocopied by AE2 H360E, suggesting a crucial role for His360. Homology modeling of the three-dimensional structure of the AE2 NH2-terminal cytoplasmic domain (based on the structure of the corresponding region of human AE1) predicts that those residues shown by mutagenesis to be functionally important define at least one localized surface region necessary for regulation of AE2 activity by pH.
Two distinct tyrosine-based motifs enable the inhibitory receptor FcgammaRIIB to cooperatively recruit the inositol phosphatases SHIP1/2 and the adapters Grb2/Grap.	FcgammaRIIB are low-affinity receptors for IgG that contain an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif (ITIM) and inhibit immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)-dependent cell activation. When coaggregated with ITAM-bearing receptors, FcgammaRIIB become tyrosyl-phosphorylated and recruit the Src homology 2 (SH2) domain-containing inositol 5'-phosphatases SHIP1 and SHIP2, which mediate inhibition. The FcgammaRIIB ITIM was proposed to be necessary and sufficient for recruiting SHIP1/2. We show here that a second tyrosine-containing motif in the intracytoplasmic domain of FcgammaRIIB is required for SHIP1/2 to be coprecipitated with the receptor. This motif functions as a docking site for the SH2 domain-containing adapters Grb2 and Grap. These adapters interact via their C-terminal SH3 domain with SHIP1/2 to form a stable receptor-phosphatase-adapter trimolecular complex. Both Grb2 and Grap are required for an optimal coprecipitation of SHIP with FcgammaRIIB, but one adapter is sufficient for the phosphatase to coprecipitate in a detectable manner with the receptors. In addition to facilitating the recruitment of SHIPs, the second tyrosine-based motif may confer upon FcgammaRIIB the properties of scaffold proteins capable of altering the composition and stability of the signaling complexes generated following receptor engagement.
Functional studies of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis iron-dependent regulator.	The iron-dependent regulator (IdeR) protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and its better characterized homologue, the diphtheria toxin repressor (DtxR) from Corynebacterium diphtheriae, are iron-dependent regulatory proteins that control gene expression in response to iron availability in bacteria. IdeR regulates several genes required for iron uptake and storage including those involved in the synthesis of transition metal chelators called siderophores that are linked to the M. tuberculosis virulence. In this study, the metal ion and binding affinities for IdeR binding to an fxbA operator duplex DNA were estimated using fluorescence assays. The Fe(2+), Co(2+), and Ni(2+) affinities of the two metal ion binding sites in IdeR that are involved in the activation of the regulator DNA binding process in vitro were independently estimated. Binding to the two metal ion binding sites is apparently cooperative and the two affinities differ significantly. Occupation of the first metal ion binding site causes dimerization of IdeR, and the metal ion affinity is about 4 microM for Ni(2+) and much less for Fe(2+) and Co(2+). Binding of the second metal ion fully activates IdeR for binding to the fxbA operator. The equilibrium metal ion dissociation constants for IdeR-fxbA operator binding are approximately 9 microM for Fe(2+), 13 microM for Ni(2+), and 23 microM for Co(2+). Interestingly, the natural IdeR cofactor, Fe(2+), shows high affinities toward both binding sites. These results provide insight into the possible roles for each metal binding site in IdeR activation.
A RasGAP-derived cell permeable peptide potently enhances genotoxin-induced cytotoxicity in tumor cells.	Treatment of many cancers relies on the combined action of several genotoxins, but the detrimental effect of these drugs on normal cells can cause severe side effects. One major challenge in anticancer therapy is therefore to increase the selectivity of current treatments toward cancer cells in order to spare normal cells. We have recently demonstrated that a RasGAP caspase cleavage fragment is able to sensitize HeLa cells towards cisplatin-induced apoptosis. Here, we extend this observation by showing that this fragment also enhances cell death induced by adriamycin and mitoxantrone, two other widely used genotoxins. Furthermore, we have delineated a short sequence within this fragment that still bears the genotoxin-sensitization property. The peptide encoded by this sequence, when fused to the TAT cell permeation sequence, potently sensitized a number of tumors cells, but not normal cells, towards apoptosis induced by cisplatin, adriamycin and mitoxantrone. This sensitization effect was not mediated through modulation of NFkappaB activity or activation of the JNK and p38 MAPK pathways. Our results demonstrate the feasibility in enhancing the efficacy of currently used drugs to selectively kill cancer cells using peptides derived from pro-apoptotic caspase substrate fragments.
MUC1 membrane trafficking is modulated by multiple interactions.	MUC1 is a mucin-like transmembrane protein found on the apical surface of many epithelia. Because aberrant intracellular localization of MUC1 in tumor cells correlates with an aggressive tumor and a poor prognosis for the patient, experiments were designed to characterize the features that modulate MUC1 membrane trafficking. By following [(35)S]Met/Cys-labeled MUC1 in glycosylation-defective Chinese hamster ovary cells, we found previously that truncation of O-glycans on MUC1 inhibited its surface expression and stimulated its internalization by clathrin-mediated endocytosis. To identify signals for MUC1 internalization that are independent of its glycosylation state, the ectodomain of MUC1 was replaced with that of Tac, and chimera endocytosis was measured by the same protocol. Endocytosis of the chimera was significantly faster than for MUC1, indicating that features of the highly extended ectodomain inhibit MUC1 internalization. Analysis of truncation mutants and tyrosine mutants showed that Tyr(20) and Tyr(60) were both required for efficient endocytosis. Mutation of Tyr(20) significantly blocked coimmunoprecipitation of the chimera with AP-2, indicating that Y(20)HPM is recognized as a YXXphi motif by the mu2 subunit. The tyrosine-phosphorylated Y(60)TNP was previously identified as an SH2 site for Grb2 binding, and we found that mutation of Tyr(60) blocked coimmunoprecipitation of the chimera with Grb2. This is the first indication that Grb2 plays a significant role in the endocytosis of MUC1.
The Sec14 homology domain regulates the cellular distribution and transforming activity of the Rho-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor Dbs.	Dbs is a Rho-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor that was identified in a screen for proteins whose overexpression cause deregulated growth in murine fibroblasts. Dbs contains multiple recognizable motifs including a centrally located Rho-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor domain, a COOH-terminal Src homology 3 domain, two spectrin-like repeats, and a recently identified NH(2)-terminal Sec14 homology domain. The transforming potential of Dbs is substantially activated by the removal of inhibitory sequences that lie outside of the core catalytic sequences, and in this current study we mapped this inhibition to the Sec14 domain. Surprisingly removal of the NH(2) terminus did not alter the catalytic activity of Dbs in vivo but rather altered its subcellular distribution. Whereas full-length Dbs was distributed primarily in a perinuclear structure that coincides with a marker for the Golgi apparatus, removal of the Sec14 domain was associated with translocation of Dbs to the cell periphery where it accumulated within membrane ruffles and lamellipodia. However, translocation of Dbs and the concomitant changes in the actin cytoskeleton were not sufficient to fully activate Dbs transformation. The Sec14 domain also forms intramolecular contacts with the pleckstrin homology domain, and these contacts must also be relieved to achieve full transforming activity. Collectively these observations suggest that the Sec14 domain regulates Dbs transformation through at least two distinct mechanisms, neither of which appears to directly influence the in vivo exchange activity of the protein.
Molecular basis for a direct interaction between the Syk protein-tyrosine kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase.	After engagement of the B cell receptor for antigen, the Syk protein-tyrosine kinase becomes phosphorylated on multiple tyrosines, some of which serve as docking sites for downstream effectors with SH2 or other phosphotyrosine binding domains. The most frequently identified binding partner for catalytically active Syk identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen was the p85 regulatory subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase. The C-terminal SH2 domain of p85 was sufficient for mediating an interaction with tyrosine-phosphorylated Syk. Interestingly, this domain interacted with Syk at phosphotyrosine 317, a site phosphorylated in trans by the Src family kinase, Lyn, and identified previously as a binding site for c-Cbl. This site interacted preferentially with the p85 C-terminal SH2 domain compared with the c-Cbl tyrosine kinase binding domain. Molecular modeling studies showed a good fit between the p85 SH2 domain and a peptide containing phosphotyrosine 317. Tyr-317 was found to be essential for Syk to support phagocytosis mediated by FcgammaRIIA receptors expressed in a heterologous system. These studies establish a new type of p85 binding site that can exist on proteins that serve as substrates for Src family kinases and provide a molecular explanation for observations on direct interactions between Syk and phosphoinositide 3-kinase.
Fyn phosphorylates human MAP-2c on tyrosine 67.	The Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of Fyn binds to a conserved PXXP motif on microtubule-associated protein-2. Co-transfections into COS7 cells and in vitro kinase assays performed with Fyn and wild-type, or mutant MAP-2c, determined that Fyn phosphorylated MAP-2c on tyrosine 67. The phosphorylation generated a consensus sequence for the binding of the SH2 domain of Grb2 (pYSN). Pull-down assays with SH2-Grb2 from human fetal brain homogenates, and co-immunoprecipitation of Grb2 and MAP-2 confirmed the interaction in vivo, and demonstrated that MAP-2c is tyrosine-phosphorylated in human fetal brain. Filter overlay assays confirmed that the SH2 domain of Grb2 binds to human MAP-2c following incubation with active Fyn. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays confirmed the interaction between the SH2 domain of Grb2 and a tyrosine-phosphorylated MAP-2 peptide spanning the pY(67)SN motif. Thus, MAP-2c can directly recruit multiple signaling proteins important for central nervous system development.
Domain identification by iterative analysis of error-scaled difference distance matrices.	Iterative interpretation of error-scaled difference distance matrices is suggested as a means of dividing a protein into structural domains on the basis of conformational differences between different models. Two conformers of Src kinase [PDB codes 1fmk [Xu et al. (1997). Nature (London), 385, 595-602] and 2src [Xu et al. (1999). Mol. Cell, 3, 629-638]] in the inactive state with and without a substrate analogue bound are analysed in order to demonstrate the approach. SH3, SH2 and the N- and C-terminal lobes of the kinase domain are detected as structural modules that move with respect to each other. Notably, a relative movement between the SH3 and SH2 domains is detected although both structures of Src kinase are in the 'assembled' state. Detailed analysis shows that Arg318, a residue topologically located in the N-terminal lobe of the kinase domain, structurally belongs to the C-terminal lobe. The movement of this residue together with the C-terminal lobe upon substrate binding leads to the loss of a salt bridge between Arg318 and Asp117, a residue in the SH3 domain, providing an explanation for the increased mobility of the SH3 domain.
Hydrogen exchange and ligand binding: ligand-dependent and ligand-independent protection in the Src SH3 domain.	Amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange has proven to be a powerful tool for detecting and characterizing high-energy conformations in protein ensembles. Since interactions with ligands can modulate these high-energy conformations, hydrogen exchange appears to be an ideal experimental probe of the physical mechanisms underlying processes like allosteric regulation. The chemical mechanism of hydrogen exchange, however, can complicate such studies. Here, we examine hydrogen exchange rates in a simple model system, the c-Src SH3 domain interacting with a short peptide ligand. Addition of ligand slows the rates of hydrogen exchange at nearly every amide for which we can obtain data. Careful analysis, however, reveals that this slowing is due primarily to a reduction in the population of free protein in the system, and not to any specific property of the complex. We present a method to separate the contributions of free and bound protein to the exchange kinetics that has allowed us to identify the subset of amides where exchange arises directly from the complex. These results demonstrate that the slowing of hydrogen exchange induced by ligand interactions should be interpreted with caution, and more extensive experiments are required to correlate changes in hydrogen exchange with changes in structure or internal dynamics.
The critical role of SRC homology domain 2-containing tyrosine phosphatase-1 in recombinant human erythropoietin hyporesponsive anemia in chronic hemodialysis patients.	The molecular mechanism of anemia that is hyporesponsive to recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) in hemodialysis patients without underlying causative factors has not been investigated fully in hematopoietic stem cell system. Circulating CD34+ cells (1 x 10(4)) were isolated from rHuEPO hyporesponsive hemodialysis patients (EPO-H; n = 9), patients who were responsive to rHuEPO (EPO-R; n = 9), and healthy control subjects (n = 9). The patients with known causes of EPO hyporesponsiveness were eliminated from the current study. The cells were cultured in STEM PRO 34 liquid medium, supplemented with rHuEPO, IL-3, stem cell factor, and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor for 7 d and then transferred to a semisolid methylcellulose culture medium for performing burst forming unit-erythroid (BFU-E) colony assay. Expression of src homology domain 2 (SH2)-containing tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP-1), phosphorylated Janus kinase 2 (p-JAK2), and phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (p-STAT5) was assessed with Western blot analysis. In EPO-H patients, SHP-1 antisense or scrambled S-oligos were included in the culture medium, and its effects were evaluated. The number of circulating CD34+ cells was not statistically different among the three groups, and their proliferation rates were similar for 7 d in culture. However, BFU-E colonies were significantly decreased in EPO-H patients compared with EPO-R and control groups. The mRNA and protein expression of SHP-1 and p-SHP-1 was significantly increased, whereas that of p-STAT5 was reduced in EPO-H patients. The inclusion of SHP-1 antisense S-oligo in culture suppressed SHP-1 protein expression associated with p-STAT5 upregulation, increase in p-STAT5-regulated genes, and partial recovery of BFU-E colonies. In EPO-H hemodialysis patients, the EPO signaling pathway is attenuated as a result of dephosphorylation of STAT5 via upregulation of SHP-1 phosphatase activity, and SHP-1 may be a novel target molecule to sensitize EPO action in these patients.
Cortactin regulates cell migration through activation of N-WASP.	Cortactin is an actin-associated scaffolding protein that regulates cell migration. Amplification of the human gene, EMS1, has been detected in breast, head and neck tumors, where it correlates with increased invasiveness. Cortactin can regulate actin dynamics directly via its N-terminal half, which can bind and activate the Arp2/3 complex. The C-terminal portion of cortactin, however, is thought to have limited function in its regulation of the actin polymerization machinery. In this report, we identify a role for the cortactin C-terminus in regulating cell migration and, more specifically, actin dynamics. Overexpression of either full-length cortactin or cortactin C-terminus is sufficient to enhance migration of mammary epithelial cells. In vitro, cortactin binds to and activates, via its SH3 domain, a regulator of the Arp2/3 complex, neural Wiskott Aldrich Syndrome protein (N-WASP). This in vitro activation of N-WASP is likely to be important in vivo, as cortactin-enhanced migration is dependent upon N-WASP. Thus, our results suggest that cortactin has multiple mechanisms by which it can recruit and modulate the actin machinery and ultimately regulate cell migration.
T cell receptor-induced activation of phospholipase C-gamma1 depends on a sequence-independent function of the P-I region of SLP-76.	SLP-76 forms part of a hematopoietic-specific adaptor protein complex, and is absolutely required for T cell development and activation. T cell receptor (TCR)-induced activation of phospholipase C-gamma1 (PLC-gamma1) depends on three features of SLP-76: the N-terminal tyrosine phosphorylation sites, the Gads-binding site, and an intervening sequence, denoted the P-I region, which binds to the SH3 domain of PLC-gamma1 (SH3(PLC)) via a low affinity interaction. Despite extensive research, the mechanism whereby SLP-76 regulates PLC-gamma1 remains uncertain. In this study, we uncover and explore an apparent paradox: whereas the P-I region as a whole is essential for TCR-induced activation of PLC-gamma1 and nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), no particular part of this region is absolutely required. To better understand the contribution of the P-I region to PLC-gamma1 activation, we mapped the PLC-gamma1-binding site within the region, and created a SLP-76 mutant that fails to bind SH3(PLC), but is fully functional, mediating TCR-induced phosphorylation of PLC-gamma1 at tyrosine 783, calcium flux, and nuclear factor of activated T cells activation. Unexpectedly, full functionality of this mutant was maintained even under less than optimal stimulation conditions, such as a low concentration of the anti-TCR antibody. Another SLP-76 mutant, in which the P-I region was scrambled to abolish any sequence-dependent protein-binding motifs, also retained significant functionality. Our results demonstrate that SLP-76 need not interact with SH3(PLC) to activate PLC-gamma1, and further suggest that the P-I region of SLP-76 serves a structural role that is sequence-independent and is not directly related to protein-protein interactions.
SH3 domain of spectrin participates in the activation of Rac in specialized calpain-induced integrin signaling complexes.	In this study, we used cultured cells spreading on beta3 integrin substrates to examine the possibility that spectrin is involved in signal transduction. Spectrin clustered with specialized calpain-induced beta3 integrin signaling complexes that mediate the initial attachment of cells and initiate Rac activation and lamellipodia extension. It was absent from focal complexes and focal adhesions, the integrin complexes that mediate adhesion in lamellipodia and fully spread cells. Spectrin contains a Src homology (SH3) domain of unknown function. Cells overexpressing this domain adhered and calpain-induced integrin signaling complexes formed. However, Rac activation, lamellipodia extension and cell spreading were inhibited. Spreading was restored by overexpression of constitutively active Rac. These studies point to a previously unrecognized role for spectrin and its SH3 domain in initiating Rac activation in the specialized integrin clusters that initiate cell adhesion and spreading. Thus, spectrin may have a pivotal role in initiating integrin-induced physiological and pathological events such as development, proliferation, cell survival, wound healing, metastasis and atherosclerosis.
Mislocalization or reduced expression of Arf GTPase-activating protein ASAP1 inhibits cell spreading and migration by influencing Arf1 GTPase cycling.	ADP-ribosylation factor (Arf) family of small GTP-binding proteins plays a central role in membrane trafficking and cytoskeletal remodeling. ASAP1 (Arf-GAP containing SH3, ankyrin repeats, and PH domain) is a phospholipid-dependent Arf GTPase-activating protein (Arf-GAP) that binds to protein-tyrosine kinases Src and focal adhesion kinase. Using affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry (MS), we identified the adaptor protein CD2-associated protein (CD2AP) as a candidate binding partner of ASAP1. Both co-immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down experiments confirmed that CD2AP stably interacts with ASAP1 through its N-terminal SH3 domains. Using a mislocalization strategy, we show that sequestration of endogenous ASAP1 to mitochondria with a CD2AP SH3-mito fusion protein (the three N-terminal SH3 domains of CD2AP fused to Listeria monocytogenes ActA mitochondria-targeting sequence) inhibited REF52 cell spreading and migration in response to fibronectin stimulation. Using an alternative strategy we show that suppressing ASAP1 expression with small interfering RNA duplexes also significantly retarded cell spreading and inhibited cell migration. Furthermore, abrogation of ASAP1 function using either small interfering RNAs or mislocalization approaches caused an increase of GTP loading on Arf1 and loss of paxillin from adhesions. These results taken together with our previous observations that overexpression of ASAP1 inhibits cell spreading and alters paxillin localization to adhesions (Liu, Y., Loijens, J. C., Martin, K. H., Karginov, A. V., and Parsons, J. T. (2002) Mol. Biol. Cell. 13, 2147-2156) suggest that the recruitment of certain adhesion components such as paxillin requires dynamic GTP/GDP turnover of Arf1 GTPase.
Growth factor receptor binding protein 2-mediated recruitment of the RING domain of Cbl to the epidermal growth factor receptor is essential and sufficient to support receptor endocytosis.	Knockdown of growth factor receptor binding protein 2 (Grb2) by RNA interference strongly inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). To gain insights into the function of Grb2 in EGFR endocytosis, we have generated cell lines in which endogenous Grb2 was replaced by yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-tagged Grb2 expressed at the physiological level. In these cells, Grb2-YFP fully reversed the inhibitory effect of Grb2 knockdown on EGFR endocytosis and, moreover, trafficked together with EGFR during endocytosis. Overexpression of Grb2-binding protein c-Cbl did not restore endocytosis in Grb2-depleted cells. However, EGFR endocytosis was rescued in Grb2-depleted cells by chimeric proteins consisting of the Src homology (SH) 2 domain of Grb2 fused to c-Cbl. The "knockdown and rescue" analysis revealed that the expression of Cbl-Grb2/SH2 fusions containing RING finger domain of Cbl restores normal ubiquitylation and internalization of the EGFR in the absence of Grb2, consistent with the important role of the RING domain in EGFR endocytosis. In contrast, the carboxy-terminal domain of Cbl, when attached to Grb2 SH2 domain, had 4 times smaller endocytosis-rescue effect compared with the RING-containing chimeras. Together, the data suggest that the interaction of Cbl carboxy terminus with CIN85 has a minor and a redundant role in EGFR internalization. We concluded that Grb2-mediated recruitment of the functional RING domain of Cbl to the EGFR is essential and sufficient to support receptor endocytosis.
PRAM-1 potentiates arsenic trioxide-induced JNK activation.	The promyelocytic leukemia RARalpha target gene encoding an adaptor molecule-1 (PRAM-1) is involved in a signaling pathway induced by retinoic acid in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cells. To better understand the function of PRAM-1, we have undertaken the identification of its partners through a yeast two-hybrid screen. Here, we show that the proline-rich domain of PRAM-1 interacted with the Src homology 3 (SH3) domain of hematopoietic progenitor kinase 1 (HPK-1)-interacting protein of 55 kDa (HIP-55, also called SH3P7 and Abp1) known to stimulate the activity of HPK-1 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Overexpression of PRAM-1 in the NB4 APL cell line increased arsenic trioxide-induced JNK activation through a caspase 3-like-dependent activity. Dissociation of the SH3 domain from the rest of the HIP-55 protein was observed in the NB4 APL cell line treated with arsenic trioxide due to specific cleavage by caspase 3-like enzymes. The cleavage of HIP-55 correlated with the induction of PRAM-1 mRNA and protein expression. Taken together, our results suggest that the caspase 3-cleaved SH3 domain of HIP-55 is likely involved in PRAM-1-mediated JNK activation upon arsenic trioxide-induced differentiation of NB4 cells.
NMR dynamics-derived insights into the binding properties of a peptide interacting with an SH2 domain.	The signal transduction protein phospholipase C-gamma1 (PLC-gamma1) is activated when its C-terminal SH2 domain (PLCC) binds the phosphorylated Tyr-1021 site (pTyr-1021) in the beta-platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR). To better understand the contributions that dynamics make to binding, we have used NMR relaxation experiments to investigate the motional properties of backbone amide and side chain methyl groups in a peptide derived from the pTyr-1021 site of PDGFR, both free and in complex with the PLCC SH2 domain. The free peptide has relaxation properties that are typical for a small, unstructured polymer, while the backbone of the bound peptide is least flexible for residues in the central portion of the binding site with the amplitude of pico- to nanosecond time scale motions increasing toward the C-terminus of the peptide. The increase in large amplitude motion toward the end of the pY1021 peptide is consistent with the bound peptide existing as an ensemble of states with C-terminal residues having the broadest distribution of backbone conformations, while residues in the central binding site are the most restricted. Deuterium spin relaxation experiments establish that the protein-peptide interface is highly dynamic, and this mobility may play an important role in modulating the affinity of the interaction.
Off-resonance R(1rho) NMR studies of exchange dynamics in proteins with low spin-lock fields: an application to a Fyn SH3 domain.	An (15)N NMR R(1rho) relaxation experiment is presented for the measurement of millisecond time scale exchange processes in proteins. On- and off-resonance R(1rho) relaxation profiles are recorded one residue at a time using a series of one-dimensional experiments in concert with selective Hartmann-Hahn polarization transfers. The experiment can be performed using low spin-lock field strengths (values as low as 25 Hz have been tested), with excellent alignment of magnetization along the effective field achieved. Additionally, suppression of the effects of cross-correlated relaxation between dipolar and chemical shift anisotropy interactions and (1)H-(15)N scalar coupled evolution is straightforward to implement, independent of the strength of the (15)N spin-locking field. The methodology is applied to study the folding of a G48M mutant of the Fyn SH3 domain that has been characterized previously by CPMG dispersion experiments. It is demonstrated through experiment that off-resonance R(1rho) data measured at a single magnetic field and one or more spin-lock field strengths, with amplitudes on the order of the rate of exchange, allow a complete characterization of a two-site exchange process. This is possible even in the case of slow exchange on the NMR time scale, where complementary approaches involving CPMG-based experiments fail. Advantages of this methodology in relation to other approaches are described.
Src-dependent ezrin phosphorylation in adhesion-mediated signaling.	In addition to providing a regulated linkage between the membrane and the actin cytoskeleton, ezrin participates in signal transduction pathways. Here we describe that expression of the ezrin Y145F mutant delays epithelial cell spreading on fibronectin by inhibiting events leading to FAK activation. The defect in spreading was rescued by the overexpression of catalytically functional Src. We demonstrate that ezrin Y145 is phosphorylated in A431 cells stimulated with epidermal growth factor (EGF) and in v-Src-transformed cells. Moreover in cells devoid of Src, SYF-/- fibroblasts, ezrin Y145 phosphorylation could only be detected upon the introduction of an active form of Src. The phosphorylation of ezrin at Y145 required prior binding of the Src SH2 domain to ezrin. Our results further show that Src activity influences its binding to ezrin and a positive feedback mechanism for Src-mediated Y145 phosphorylation is implied. Interestingly, cells expressing ezrin Y145F did not proliferate when cultured in a 3D collagen gel. Collectively, our results demonstrate a key signaling input of Src-dependent ezrin phosphorylation in adhesion-mediated events in epithelial cells.
Postsynaptic shank antagonizes dendrite branching induced by the leucine-rich repeat protein Densin-180.	Leucine-rich repeat and PDZ [postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/Discs large/zona occludens-1] domain proteins such as scribble and Densin-180 have been implicated in the establishment of cell-cell contacts. Here, we show that Densin-180, which has been identified as a constituent of the postsynaptic density in excitatory synapses interacts with the postsynaptic scaffold protein shank (shank1-3). The interaction involves a two-point attachment of the C-terminal region of Densin-180 with the Src homology 3 domain and the N-terminal part of the proline-rich region of shank proteins. The N-terminal leucine-rich repeat region, which is not involved in binding shank, targets Densin-180 to the plasma membrane in transfected cells and to the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells. Nevertheless, coexpression of shank leads to a redirection of Densin-180 into intracellular clusters. In cultured hippocampal neurons, Densin-180 overexpression induces excessive branching of neuronal dendrites, which occurs at the expense of clusters for the postsynaptic marker PSD-95. Coexpression of shank3 abrogates branch formation and targets Densin-180 into postsynaptic clusters instead. Shank blocks binding of delta-catenin but not alphaCaM kinase II to Densin-180; because delta-catenin has been shown to induce branching and neurite formation, our data suggest a mechanism where shank could block the activation of a Densin-180-dependent signaling pathway by delta-catenin.
Stat3 dimerization regulated by reversible acetylation of a single lysine residue.	Upon cytokine treatment, members of the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) family of proteins are phosphorylated on tyrosine and serine sites within the carboxyl-terminal region in cells. We show that in response to cytokine treatment, Stat3 is also acetylated on a single lysine residue, Lys685. Histone acetyltransferase p300-mediated Stat3 acetylation on Lys685 was reversible by type I histone deacetylase (HDAC). Use of a prostate cancer cell line (PC3) that lacks Stat3 and PC3 cells expressing wild-type Stat3 or a Stat3 mutant containing a Lys685-to-Arg substitution revealed that Lys685 acetylation was critical for Stat3 to form stable dimers required for cytokine-stimulated DNA binding and transcriptional regulation, to enhance transcription of cell growth-related genes, and to promote cell cycle progression in response to treatment with oncostatin M.
Inhibition of endogenous SHIP2 ameliorates insulin resistance caused by chronic insulin treatment in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.	SHIP2 is a physiologically important negative regulator of insulin signalling hydrolysing the PI3-kinase product, PI(3,4,5)P3, which also has an impact on insulin resistance. In the present study, we examined the effect of inhibiting the endogenous SHIP2 function on the insulin resistance caused by chronic insulin treatment.
Apparent Debye-Huckel electrostatic effects in the folding of a simple, single domain protein.	We have monitored the effects of salts and denaturants on the folding of the simple, two-state protein FynSH3. As predicted by Debye-Huckel limiting law, both the stability and (log) folding rate of FynSH3 increase nearly perfectly linearly (r(2)> 0.99) with the square root of ionic strength upon increasing concentrations of the relatively nonchaotropic salt sodium chloride. The stability of FynSH3 is also linear in square root ionic strength when the relatively nonchaotropic salts sodium bromide, potassium bromide, and potassium chloride are employed. Comparison of the kinetic and equilibrium effects of sodium chloride suggests that the electrostatic interactions formed in the folding transition state are approximately 50% as destabilizing as those formed in the native state, presumably reflecting the more compact nature of the latter. In contrast, the relationship between concentration and folding kinetics is more complex when the highly chaotropic salt guanidine hydrochloride (GuHCl) is employed. At moderate to high GuHCl concentrations the net effect of the linear, presumably chaotrope-induced deceleration and the presumed, square root-dependent ionic strength-induced acceleration is well approximated as linear, thus accounting for the observation of "chevron behavior" (log folding rate linear in denaturant concentration) typically reported for the folding of single domain proteins. At very low GuHCl concentrations, however, significant kinetic rollover is observed. This rollover is reasonably well fitted as a sum of a linear, presumably chaotropic effect and a square root-dependent, presumably electrostatic effect. These results thus not only provide insight into the nature of the folding transition state but also suggest that caution is in order when extrapolating GuHCl-based chevrons to estimate folding rates in the absence of denaturant and in interpreting deviations from chevron linearity as evidence for non-two-state kinetics.
A transient increase in the activity of Src-family kinases induced by cell detachment delays anoikis of intestinal epithelial cells.	Detachment of epithelial cells from the basement membrane (BM) induces apoptosis, a phenomenon now widely known as anoikis. Studies in mammary and intestinal epithelial cells have shown that the loss of attachment to the BM rapidly triggers reversible proapoptotic events from which the cells can recover if they reattach within a certain period. Thus, cells seem to be transiently protected from the initial detachment-induced proapoptotic events. The molecular mechanisms underlying such transient protection against anoikis are unknown. In this paper, we present evidence indicating that detachment of intestinal epithelial cells triggers a transient, yet significant increase in the activity of the tyrosine kinases c-Src and c-Fyn, and that this activation of Src-family kinases (SFK) contributes to the transient protection against anoikis in these cells. The protective signals from SFK are mediated by the PI3K pathway, and caveolin-1. In addition, we show that the MEK1-ERK1/2 pathway acts in a synergistic manner with SFK to protect intestinal epithelial cells from anoikis.
Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol-5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1) negatively regulates TLR4-mediated LPS response primarily through a phosphatase activity- and PI-3K-independent mechanism.	Src homology 2 (SH2) domain-containing inositol-5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1) plays important roles in negatively regulating the activation of immune cells primarily via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI-3K) pathway by catalyzing the PI-3K product PtdIns-3,4,5P3 (phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate) into PtdIns-3,4P2. However, the role of SHIP1 in Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mediated lipopolysaccharide (LPS) response remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that SHIP1 negatively regulates LPS-induced inflammatory response via both phosphatase activity-dependent and -independent mechanisms in macrophages. SHIP1 becomes tyrosine phosphorylated and up-regulated upon LPS stimulation in RAW264.7 macrophages. SHIP1-specific RNA-interfering and SHIP1 overexpression experiments demonstrate that SHIP1 inhibits LPS-induced tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) production by negatively regulating the LPS-induced combination between TLR4 and myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88); activation of Ras (p21(ras) protein), PI-3K, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), p38, and c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK); and degradation of IkappaB-alpha. SHIP1 also significantly inhibits LPS-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation in TLR4-reconstitited COS7 cells. Although SHIP1-mediated inhibition of PI-3K is dependent on its phosphatase activity, phosphatase activity-disrupted mutant SHIP1 remains inhibitory to LPS-induced TNF-alpha production. Neither disrupting phosphatase activity nor using the PI-3K pathway inhibitor LY294002 or wortmannin could significantly block SHIP1-mediated inhibition of LPS-induced ERK1/2, p38, and JNK activation and TNF-alpha production, demonstrating that SHIP1 inhibits LPS-induced activation of MAPKs and cytokine production primarily by a phosphatase activity- and PI-3K-independent mechanism.
Lnk inhibits erythropoiesis and Epo-dependent JAK2 activation and downstream signaling pathways.	Erythropoietin (Epo), along with its receptor EpoR, is the principal regulator of red cell development. Upon Epo addition, the EpoR signaling through the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) activates multiple pathways including Stat5, phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI-3K)/Akt, and p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). The adaptor protein Lnk is implicated in cytokine receptor signaling. Here, we showed that Lnk-deficient mice have elevated numbers of erythroid progenitors, and that splenic erythroid colony-forming unit (CFU-e) progenitors are hypersensitive to Epo. Lnk(-/-) mice also exhibit superior recovery after erythropoietic stress. In addition, Lnk deficiency resulted in enhanced Epo-induced signaling pathways in splenic erythroid progenitors. Conversely, Lnk overexpression inhibits Epo-induced cell growth in 32D/EpoR cells. In primary culture of fetal liver cells, Lnk overexpression inhibits Epo-dependent erythroblast differentiation and induces apoptosis. Lnk blocks 3 major signaling pathways, Stat5, Akt, and MAPK, induced by Epo in primary erythroblasts. In addition, the Lnk Src homology 2 (SH2) domain is essential for its inhibitory function, whereas the conserved tyrosine near the C-terminus and the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain of Lnk are not critical. Furthermore, wild-type Lnk, but not the Lnk SH2 mutant, becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated following Epo administration and inhibits EpoR phosphorylation and JAK2 activation. Hence, Lnk, through its SH2 domain, negatively modulates EpoR signaling by attenuating JAK2 activation, and regulates Epo-mediated erythropoiesis.
Molecular basis for positive and negative signaling by the natural killer cell receptor 2B4 (CD244).	Triggering of 2B4 (CD244) can induce natural killer (NK)-cell activation, costimulation, or even inhibition of NK-cell activity. Here, we investigate the molecular basis for the different signals generated by 2B4. We show that the first immunoreceptor tyrosine-based switch motif (ITSM) within the cytoplasmic tail of 2B4 is sufficient for 2B4-mediated NK-cell activation, whereas the third ITSM can negatively influence 2B4 signaling. We further identify signaling molecules that associate with 2B4. Signaling lymphocyte activation molecule-associated protein (SAP) can bind to all 4 ITSMs of 2B4 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. The phosphorylated third ITSM can additionally recruit the phosphatases SHP-1, SHP-2, SHIP, and the inhibitory kinase Csk. SAP acts as an inhibitor of interactions between 2B4 and these negative regulatory molecules, explaining how 2B4 inhibits NK-cell activation in the absence of functional SAP, as occurs in cells from patients with X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome (XLP). Recently, another function for SAP was proposed: SAP can recruit the kinase Fyn to the SLAM (CD150) immune receptor. We now show that Fyn can also associate with phosphorylated 2B4. Finally, we demonstrate that Fyn and Csk can both phosphorylate 2B4, suggesting a possible mechanism of 2B4 phosphorylation.
Structure of an ultraweak protein-protein complex and its crucial role in regulation of cell morphology and motility.	Weak protein-protein interactions (PPIs) (K(D) > 10(-6) M) are critical determinants of many biological processes. However, in contrast to a large growing number of well-characterized, strong PPIs, the weak PPIs, especially those with K(D) > 10(-4) M, are poorly explored. Genome wide, there exist few 3D structures of weak PPIs with K(D) > 10(-4) M, and none with K(D) > 10(-3) M. Here, we report the NMR structure of an extremely weak focal adhesion complex (K(D) approximately 3 x 10(-3) M) between Nck-2 SH3 domain and PINCH-1 LIM4 domain. The structure exhibits a remarkably small and polar interface with distinct binding modes for both SH3 and LIM domains. Such an interface suggests a transient Nck-2/PINCH-1 association process that may trigger rapid focal adhesion turnover during integrin signaling. Genetic rescue experiments demonstrate that this interface is indeed involved in mediating cell shape change and migration. Together, the data provide a molecular basis for an ultraweak PPI in regulating focal adhesion dynamics during integrin signaling.
Identification of Src-specific phosphorylation site on focal adhesion kinase: dissection of the role of Src SH2 and catalytic functions and their consequences for tumor cell behavior.	Src tyrosine kinase expression and activity are elevated during colon cancer progression. How this contributes to the malignant phenotype is not fully understood. We show that in KM12C colon carcinoma cells, expression of kinase-deficient Src proteins (SrcMF and Src251) does not alter cell growth. Src kinase activity is required for turnover of cell-matrix adhesions and, in particular, the Src-dependent phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is required for their disassembly. Surprisingly, we found that expression of SrcMF or Src251 resulted in increased tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK on Tyr(407), Tyr(576), Tyr(577), and Tyr(861), which are considered to be Src kinase substrates. This Src kinase-independent phosphorylation of FAK required an intact Src SH2 domain that mediates association of Src and FAK at peripheral adhesions. Use of a novel highly potent and selective Src kinase inhibitor AP23464 combined with experiments in Src/Fyn/Yes-deficient fibroblasts showed that increased phosphorylation of FAK in cells expressing SrcMF did not require Src-like kinases. However, specific phosphorylation on Tyr(925) of FAK was not evident in SrcMF- or Src251-expressing cells, and lack of Src kinase-dependent phosphorylation on this site was associated with impaired adhesion turnover. Our data show that Src kinase activity is required for adhesion turnover associated with cell migration in cancer cells and that, in addition to the catalytic activity, Src also acts as an adaptor to recruit other kinases that can phosphorylate key substrates including FAK. These studies have implications for tumor progression with respect to the use of Src kinase inhibitors.
Kinetics of structural changes in the relay loop and SH3 domain of myosin.	The intrinsic fluorescence of smooth muscle myosin signals conformational changes associated with different catalytic states of the ATPase cycle. To elucidate this relationship, we have examined the pre-steady-state kinetics of nucleotide binding, hydrolysis, and product release in motor domain-essential light chain mutants containing a single endogenous tryptophan, either residue 512 in the rigid relay loop or residue 29 adjacent to the SH3 domain. The intrinsic fluorescence of W512 is sensitive to both nucleotide binding and hydrolysis, and appears to report structural changes at the active site, presumably through a direct connection with switch II. The intrinsic fluorescence of W29 is sensitive to nucleotide binding but not hydrolysis, and does not appear to be tightly linked with structural changes occurring at the active site. We propose that the SH3 domain may be sensitive to conformational changes in the lever arm through contacts with the essential light chain.
Design and biological evaluation of linear and cyclic phosphopeptide ligands of the N-terminal SH2 domain of protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1.	In an effort to gain further insight into the conformational and topographical requirements for recognition by the N-terminal SH2 domain of protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1, we synthesized a series of linear and cyclic peptides derived from the sequence surrounding phosphotyrosine 2267 in the receptor tyrosine kinase Ros (EGLNpYMVL). A molecular modeling approach was used to suggest peptide modifications sterically compatible with the N-SH2-peptide binding groove and possibly enhanced binding affinities compared to the parent peptide. The potencies of the synthesized compounds were evaluated by assaying their ability to stimulate phosphatase activity as well as by their binding affinities to the GST-fused N-SH2 domain of SHP-1. In the series of linear peptides, structural modifications of Ros pY2267 in positions pY + 1 to pY + 3 by amino acid residues structurally related to Phe, for example l-erythro/threo-Abu(betaPh) (5a, 5b), yielded ligands with increased binding affinity. The incorporation of d-amino acid residues at pY + 1 and pY + 3 led to inactive peptides. The replacement of Phe in both pY + 1 and pY + 3 by Tic (1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid) was also not tolerated due to steric hindrance. Cyclic peptides (13, 14) that were linked via residues in positions pY - 1 (Lys) and pY + 2 (Asp/Glu) and contained a Gly residue in the bridging unit displayed much lower potencies for the stimulation of SHP-1 activity but increased binding affinities compared to Ros pY2267. They partially competed with Ros pY2267 in the activation assay. Such cyclic structures may serve as scaffolds for competitive SHP-1 inhibitor design targeting N-SH2 domain-protein interactions that block SHP-1 activation.
Interaction with the SH3 domain protein Bem1 regulates signaling by the Saccharomyces cerevisiae p21-activated kinase Ste20.	The Saccharomyces cerevisiae PAK (p21-activated kinase) family kinase Ste20 functions in several signal transduction pathways, including pheromone response, filamentous growth, and hyperosmotic resistance. The GTPase Cdc42 localizes and activates Ste20 by binding to an autoinhibitory motif within Ste20 called the CRIB domain. Another factor that functions with Ste20 and Cdc42 is the protein Bem1. Bem1 has two SH3 domains, but target ligands for these domains have not been described. Here we identify an evolutionarily conserved binding site for Bem1 between the CRIB and kinase domains of Ste20. Mutation of tandem proline-rich (PxxP) motifs in this region disrupts Bem1 binding, suggesting that it serves as a ligand for a Bem1 SH3 domain. These PxxP motif mutations affect signaling additively with CRIB domain mutations, indicating that Bem1 and Cdc42 make separable contributions to Ste20 function, which cooperate to promote optimal signaling. This PxxP region also binds another SH3 domain protein, Nbp2, but analysis of bem1Delta versus nbp2Delta strains shows that the signaling defects of PxxP mutants result from impaired binding to Bem1 rather than from impaired binding to Nbp2. Finally, the PxxP mutations also reduce signaling by constitutively active Ste20, suggesting that postactivation functions of PAKs can be promoted by SH3 domain proteins, possibly by colocalizing PAKs with their substrates. The overall results also illustrate how the final signaling function of a protein can be governed by combinatorial addition of multiple, independent protein-protein interaction modules.
ArgBP2gamma interacts with Akt and p21-activated kinase-1 and promotes cell survival.	Akt/protein kinase B is a major cell survival pathway through phosphorylation of proapoptotic proteins Bad and Bax and of additional apoptotic pathways linked to Forkhead proteins glycogen synthase kinase-3beta and ASK1. To further explore the mechanism by which Akt regulates cell survival, we identified an Akt interaction protein by yeast two-hybrid screening. It is highly homologous to ARG-binding protein 2 (ArgBP2) with splicing exon 8 of the coding region of the ArgBP2. As two splicing isoforms (ArgBP2alpha and -beta) of ArgBP2 have been identified (Wang, B., Golemis, E. A., and Kruh, G. D. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 17542-17550), it was named ArgBP2gamma. ArgBP2gamma contains four Akt phosphorylation consensus sites, a SoHo motif, and three Src homology (SH) 3 domains and binds to C-terminal proline-rich motifs of Akt through its first and second SH3 domains. It also interacts with p21-activated protein kinase (PAK1) via its first and third SH3 domains, indicating the SH3 domains of ArgBP2gamma as docking sites for Akt and PAK1. Akt phosphorylates ArgBP2gamma in vitro and in vivo. Expression of ArgBP2gamma induces PAK1 activity and overrides apoptosis induced by ectopic expression of Bad or DNA damage. Nonphosphorylatable ArgBP2gamma-4A and SH3 domain-truncated mutant ArgBP2gamma inhibit Akt-induced PAK1 activation and reduce Akt and PAK1 phosphorylation of Bad and antiapoptotic function. These data indicate that ArgBP2gamma is a physiological substrate of Akt, functions as an adaptor for Akt and PAK1, and plays a role in Akt/PAK1 cell survival pathway.
Clues to CD2-associated protein involvement in cytokinesis.	Cytokinesis requires membrane trafficking coupled to actin remodeling and involves a number of trafficking molecules. CD2-associated protein (CD2AP) has been implicated in dynamic actin remodeling and membrane trafficking that occurs during endocytosis leading to the degradative pathway. In this study, we present several arguments for its implication in cytokinesis. First, endogenous CD2AP was found concentrated in the narrow region of the midzone microtubules during anaphase and in the midbody during late telophase. Moreover, we found that CD2AP is a membrane- and not a microtubule-associated protein. Second, the overexpression of the first two Src homology 3 domains of CD2AP, which are responsible for this localization, led to a significant increase in the rate of cell multinucleation. Third, the CD2AP small interfering RNA interfered with the cell separation, indicating that CD2AP is required for HeLa cells cytokinesis. Fourth, using the yeast two-hybrid system, we found that CD2AP interacted with anillin, a specific cleavage furrow component, and the two proteins colocalized at the midbody. Both CD2AP and anillin were found phosphorylated early in mitosis and also CD2AP phosphorylation was coupled to its delocalization from membrane to cytosol. All these observations led us to propose CD2AP as a new player in cytokinesis.
PTEN, but not SHIP2, suppresses insulin signaling through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.	Glucose homeostasis is controlled by insulin in part through the stimulation of glucose transport in muscle and fat cells. This insulin signaling pathway requires phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase-mediated 3'-polyphosphoinositide generation and activation of Akt/protein kinase B. Previous experiments using dominant negative constructs and gene ablation in mice suggested that two phosphoinositide phosphatases, SH2 domain-containing inositol 5'-phosphatase 2 (SHIP2) and phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) negatively regulate this insulin signaling pathway. Here we directly tested this hypothesis by selectively inhibiting the expression of SHIP2 or PTEN in intact cultured 3T3-L1 adipocytes through the use of short interfering RNA (siRNA). Attenuation of PTEN expression by RNAi markedly enhanced insulin-stimulated Akt and glycogen synthase kinase 3alpha (GSK-3alpha) phosphorylation, as well as deoxyglucose transport in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In contrast, depletion of SHIP2 protein by about 90% surprisingly failed to modulate these insulin-regulated events under identical assay conditions. In control studies, no diminution of insulin signaling to the mitogen-activated protein kinases Erk1 and Erk2 was observed when either PTEN or SHIP2 were depleted. Taken together, these results demonstrate that endogenous PTEN functions as a suppressor of insulin signaling to glucose transport through the PI 3-kinase pathway in cultured 3T3-L1 adipocytes.
WAVE3-mediated cell migration and lamellipodia formation are regulated downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.	WAVE3 is a member of the WASP/WAVE family of protein effectors of actin reorganization and cell movement. The precise role of WAVE3 in cell migration and its regulation, however, have not been elucidated. Here we show that endogenous WAVE3 was found to be concentrated in the lamellipodia at the leading edge of migrating MDA-MB-231 cells. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) treatment induced lamellipodia formation as well as two-dimensional migration of cells in the wound-closure assay and chemotactic migration toward PDGF in three-dimensional migration chambers. Knockdown of WAVE3 expression by RNA interference prevented the PDGF-induced lamellipodia formation and cell migration. Treatment of cells with LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), also abrogated the PDGF-induced lamellipodia formation and cell migration, suggesting that PI3K may be required for WAVE3 activity. WAVE3 and the PI3K regulatory subunit, p85, were found to interact in a yeast two-hybrid screen, which was confirmed through co-immunoprecipitation. The WAVE3-p85 interaction was mediated by the N-terminal region of WAVE3 and the C-terminal SH2 domain of p85. These results imply that the WAVE3-mediated migration in MDA-MB-231 cells via lamellipodia formation is activated downstream of PI3K and induced by PDGF. The findings of the WAVE3-p85 partnership also suggest a potential regulatory role for p85 in WAVE3-dependent actin-cytoskeleton reorganization and cell migration.
Peptide microarrays for the detection of molecular interactions in cellular signal transduction.	The formation of protein complexes is a hallmark of cellular signal transduction. Here, we show that peptide microarrays provide a robust and quantitative means to detect signalling-dependent changes of molecular interactions. Recruitment of a protein into a complex upon stimulation of a cell leads to the masking of an otherwise exposed binding site. In cell lysates this masking can be detected by reduced binding to a microarray carrying a peptide that corresponds to the binding motif of the respective interaction domain. The method is exemplified for the lymphocyte-specific tyrosine kinase 70 kDa zeta-associated protein binding to a bis-phosphotyrosine-motif of the activated T-cell receptor via its tandem SH2 domain. Compared to established techniques, the method provides a significant shortcut to the detection of molecular interactions.
Synthesis of a C-terminally biotinylated macrocyclic peptide mimetic exhibiting high Grb2 SH2 domain-binding affinity.	Although considerable effort has been devoted to developing Grb2 SH2 domain-binding antagonists, important questions related to ligand specificity, and identification of intracellular targets remain unanswered. In order to begin addressing these issues, the design, synthesis, and evaluation of a novel biotinylated macrocycle are reported that bears biotin functionality at a C-terminal rather than the traditional N-terminal position. With a Grb2 SH2 domain-binding K(eq) value of 3.4 nM, the title macrocycle (5) is among the most potent biotinylated SH2 domain-binding ligands yet disclosed. This should be a useful tool for elucidating physiological targets of certain Grb2 SH2 domain-binding antagonists.
Phosphorylation-driven protein-protein interactions: a protein kinase sensing system.	A highly flexible protein kinase sensing system is described that furnishes severalfold changes in fluorescence in response to phosphorylation. A library of Src kinase peptide substrates was prepared that contained different environmentally sensitive fluorophores positioned at various sites on the active site directed sequence. Robust changes in fluorescent intensity were observed in the presence of a phosphotyrosine binding domain protein (Lck SH2 domain), which furnishes a hydrophobic environment for the fluorophore. This protein kinase sensing system has the advantages that the fluorescent indicator can be unobtrusively positioned on the peptide substrate, and that different environmentally sensitive fluorophores with distinct photophysical properties can be employed.
Detection of dynamic water molecules in a microcrystalline sample of the SH3 domain of alpha-spectrin by MAS solid-state NMR.	Water molecules are a major determinant of protein stability and are important for understanding protein-protein interactions. We present two experiments which allow to measure first the effective T(2) decay rate of individual amide proton, and second the magnetization build-up rates for a selective transfer from H(2)O to H(N) using spin diffusion as a mixing element. The experiments are demonstrated for a uniformly (2)H, (15)N labeled sample of a microcrystalline SH3 domain in which exchangeable deuterons were back-substituted with protons. In order to evaluate the NMR experimental data, as X-ray structure of the protein was determined using the same crystallization protocol as for the solid-state NMR sample. The NMR experimental data are correlated with the dipolar couplings calculated from H(2)O-H(N) distances which were extracted from the X-ray structure of the protein. We find that the H(N) T(2) decay rates and H(2)O-H(N) build-up rates are sensitive to distance and dynamics of the detected water molecules with respect to the protein. We show that qualitative information about localization and dynamics of internal water molecules can be obtained in the solid-state by interpretation of the spin dynamics of a reporter amide proton.
Cross-correlated spin relaxation effects in methyl 1H CPMG-based relaxation dispersion experiments: complications and a simple solution.	Artifacts associated with the measurement of methyl (1)H single quantum CPMG-based relaxation dispersion profiles are described. These artifacts arise due to the combination of cross-correlated spin relaxation effects involving intra-methyl (1)H-(1)H dipolar interactions and imperfections in (1)H refocusing pulses that are applied during CPMG intervals that quantify the effects of chemical exchange on measured transverse relaxation rates. As a result substantial errors in extracted exchange parameters can be obtained. A simple 'work-around' is presented where the (1)H chemical shift difference between the exchanging states is extracted from a combination of (13)C single quantum and (13)C-(1)H multiple quantum dispersion profiles. The approach is demonstrated with an application to a folding/unfolding reaction involving a G48M mutant Fyn SH3 domain.
Backbone nuclear relaxation characteristics and calorimetric investigation of the human Grb7-SH2/erbB2 peptide complex.	Grb7 is a member of the Grb7 family of proteins, which also includes Grb10 and Grb14. All three proteins have been found to be overexpressed in certain cancers and cancer cell lines. In particular, Grb7 (along with the receptor tyrosine kinase erbB2) is overexpressed in 20%-30% of breast cancers. Grb7 binds to erbB2 and may be involved in cell signaling pathways that promote the formation of metastases and inflammatory responses. In a prior study, we reported the solution structure of the Grb7-SH2/erbB2 peptide complex. In this study, T(1), T(2), and steady-state NOE measurements were performed on the Grb7-SH2 domain, and the backbone relaxation behavior of the domain is discussed with respect to the potential function of an insert region present in all three members of this protein family. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) studies were completed measuring the thermodynamic parameters of the binding of a 10-residue phosphorylated peptide representative of erbB2 to the SH2 domain. These measurements are compared to calorimetric studies performed on other SH2 domain/phosphorylated peptide complexes available in the literature.
Involvement of the SH3 domain in Ca2+-mediated regulation of Src family kinases.	When cells are treated with Ca(2+) and Ca(2+)-ionophore, c-Src kinase activity increases, whereas c-Yes kinase activity decreases. This opposite modulation can be reproduced in an in vitro reconstitution assay and is dependent on Ca(2+) and on soluble factors present in cell lysates. Since c-Src and c-Yes share a high degree of homology, with the exception of their N-terminal "unique" domains, their activity was thought to be coordinately regulated. To assess the mechanism of regulation we generated stable cell lines expressing eight different constructs containing wild type c-Src and c-Yes, as well as swaps of the unique domain alone, unique and Src homology 3 (SH3) domains together and the SH3 domain alone. Swapping of the unique domains was not sufficient to reverse the regulation of the chimeric molecules. On the other hand, chimeras containing swaps of the unique plus the SH3 domains displayed reverse regulation, implicating both domains in the regulation of kinase activity by Ca(2+). To rule out the participation of the unique domain, we used chimeric molecules with swapped SH3 domains only and found that the SH3 domain is necessary and sufficient to confer Ca(2+)-mediated regulation of Src and Yes tyrosine kinases.
Interaction of AMSH with ESCRT-III and deubiquitination of endosomal cargo.	The "class E" vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) pathway mediates sorting of ubiquitinated cargo into the forming vesicles of the multivesicular bodies (MVB), and it is essential for down-regulation of signaling by growth factors and budding of enveloped viruses such as Ebola and HIV-1. Work in yeast has identified DOA4 as a gene that is recruited by the class E machinery to remove ubiquitin from the endosomal cargo before it is incorporated into MVB vesicles, but the identity of the mammalian counterpart is unclear. Here we report the interaction of AMSH (associated molecule with the SH3 domain of STAM), an endosomal deubiquitinating enzyme, with the endodomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT-III) subunits CHMP1A, CHMP1B, CHMP2A, and CHMP3. We also show that a catalytically inactive AMSH inhibits retroviral budding in a dominant-negative manner and induces the accumulation of ubiquitinated forms of an endosomal cargo, namely murine leukemia virus Gag. Finally, VPS4 and AMSH compete for binding to the C-terminal regions of CHMP1A and CHMP1B, revealing a coordinated interaction with ESCRT-III. Taken together, these results are consistent with a role of AMSH in the deubiquitination of the endosomal cargo preceding lysosomal degradation.
Molecular dynamics study on the ligand recognition by tandem SH3 domains of p47phox, regulating NADPH oxidase activity.	The phagocyte NADPH oxidase complex plays a crucial role in host defense against microbial infection through the production of superoxides. Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an inherited immune deficiency caused by the absence of certain components of the NADPH oxidase. Key to the activation of the NADPH oxidase is the cytoplasmic subunit p47phox, which includes the tandem SH3 domains (N-SH3 and C-SH3). In active phagocytes, p47phox forms a stable complex with the cytoplasmic region of membrane subunit p22phox that forms a left-handed polyproline type-II (PPII) helix conformation. In this report, we have analyzed the conformational changes of p47phox-p22phox complexes of wild-type and three mutants, which have been detected in CGD patients, using molecular dynamics simulations. We have found that in the wild-type, two basal planes of PPII prism in cytoplasmic region of p22phox interacted with N-SH3 and C-SH3. In contrast, in the modeled mutants, the residue at the ape of PPII helix, which interacts simultaneously with both of the tandem SH3 domains in the wild-type, moved toward C-SH3. Furthermore, interaction energies of the cytoplasmic region of p22phox with C-SH3 tend to decrease in these mutants. All these findings led us to conclude that interactions between N-SH3 of p47phox and PPII helix, which is formed by cytoplasmic region of p22phox, may play a significant role in the activation of the NADPH oxidase.
ROS fusion tyrosine kinase activates a SH2 domain-containing phosphatase-2/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling axis to form glioblastoma in mice.	Glioblastoma multiforme is the most common and lethal form of primary brain cancer. Diagnosis of this advanced glioma has a poor prognosis due to the ineffectiveness of current therapies. Aberrant expression of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) in glioblastoma multiformes is suggestive of their role in initiation and maintenance of these tumors of the central nervous system. In fact, ectopic expression of the orphan RTK ROS is a frequent event in human brain cancers, yet the pathologic significance of this expression remains undetermined. Here, we show that a glioblastoma-associated, ligand-independent rearrangement product of ROS (FIG-ROS) cooperates with loss of the tumor suppressor gene locus Ink4a;Arf to produce glioblastomas in the mouse. We show that this FIG-ROS-mediated tumor formation in vivo parallels the activation of the tyrosine phosphatase SH2 domain-containing phosphatase-2 (SHP-2) and a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling axis in tumors and tumor-derived cell lines. We have established a fully penetrant preclinical model for adult onset of glioblastoma multiforme in keeping with major genetic events observed in the human disease. These findings provide novel and important insights into the role of ROS and SHP-2 function in solid tumor biology and set the stage for preclinical testing of targeted therapeutic approaches.
JAK2, the JAK2 V617F mutant and cytokine receptors.	Recently, a unique recurrent somatic mutation was identified as a major molecular event in polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia and idiopathic myelofibrosis. Expression of this mutant in cytokine-dependent hematopoietic cell lines induces autonomous growth. This effect is enhanced by overexpression of cytokine receptors, and can be inhibited by co-expression at higher levels of the wild type JAK2, which may compete for a limited pool of receptors. In JAK2-deficient cells, we showed that JAK2 V617F can transmit signals from ligand-activated TpoR or EpoR. Furthermore, the mutant JAK2 can be demonstrated to stimulate traffic of the EpoR. Thus, JAK2 V617F mutant must be able to interact via its intact FERM-SH2 domains with the cytosolic domains of cytokine receptors. A synergy between JAK2 V617F and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R) can be detected in cytokine-dependent cell proliferation. Once cells are rendered autonomous by expression of JAK2 V617F, IGF1 acquires the ability to activate the JAK-STAT pathway. Thus, expression of JAK2 V617F may explain the described hypersensitivity of PV erythroid progenitors to IGF1. The V617 is conserved in two other mammalian JAKs, JAK1 and Tyk2. The homologous mutants JAK1 V658F and Tyk2 V678F are also active in proliferation and transcriptional assays. Such mutants may be found in human cancers or autoimmune diseases. In contrast, the JAK3 M592F does not lead to activation of JAK3. Current hypotheses on how JAK2 V617F contributes to three myeloproliferative diseases, and which other events may favor one disease versus another, are discussed.
Subunit-specific roles of glycine-binding domains in activation of NR1/NR3 N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.	N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) composed of NR1 and NR3 subunits differ from other NMDAR subtypes in that they require glycine alone for activation. However, little else is known about the activation mechanism of these receptors. Using NMDAR glycine-site agonists/antagonists in conjunction with functional mutagenesis of the NR1 and NR3 ligand-binding cores, we demonstrate quite surprisingly that agonist binding to NR3 alone is sufficient to activate a significant component of NR1/NR3 receptor currents. Thus, the apo conformation of NR1 in NR1/NR3 receptors is permissive for receptor activation. Agonist-bound NR1 may also contribute to peak NR1/NR3 receptor currents but specifically enables significant NR1/NR3 receptor current decay under the conditions studied here, pre-sumably via a slow component of desensitization. Ligand studies of NR1/NR3 receptors also suggest differential agonist selectivity between NR3 and NR1, as some high-affinity NR1 agonists only minimally activate NR1/NR3 receptors, whereas other NR1 agonists are as potent as glycine. Furthermore, liganded NR3 subunits seem necessary for effective engagement of NR1 in NR1/NR3 receptor activation, suggesting significant interactivity between the two subunits. NR3 subunits thus induce plasticity in NR1 with respect to subunit assembly and ligand binding/channel coupling that is unique among ligand-gated ion channel subunits.
Hse1, a component of the yeast Hrs-STAM ubiquitin-sorting complex, associates with ubiquitin peptidases and a ligase to control sorting efficiency into multivesicular bodies.	Ubiquitinated integral membrane proteins are delivered to the interior of the lysosome/vacuole for degradation. This process relies on specific ubiquitination of potential cargo and recognition of that Ub-cargo by sorting receptors at multiple compartments. We show that the endosomal Hse1-Vps27 sorting receptor binds to ubiquitin peptidases and the ubiquitin ligase Rsp5. Hse1 is linked to Rsp5 directly via a PY element within its C-terminus and through a novel protein Hua1, which recruits a complex of Rsp5, Rup1, and Ubp2. The SH3 domain of Hse1 also binds to the deubiquitinating protein Ubp7. Functional analysis shows that when both modes of Rsp5 association with Hse1 are altered, sorting of cargo that requires efficient ubiquitination for entry into the MVB is blocked, whereas sorting of cargo containing an in-frame addition of ubiquitin is normal. Further deletion of Ubp7 restores sorting of cargo when the Rsp5:Hse1 interaction is compromised suggesting that both ubiquitin ligases and peptidases associate with the Hse1-Vps27 sorting complex to control the ubiquitination status and sorting efficiency of cargo proteins. Additionally, we find that disruption of UBP2 and RUP1 inhibits MVB sorting of some cargos suggesting that Rsp5 requires association with Ubp2 to properly ubiquitinate cargo for efficient MVB sorting.
High affinity Grb2-SH3 domain ligand incorporating Cbeta-substituted prolines in a Sos-derived decapeptide.	Peptide ligands that disrupt MAPK pathways are of great interest for a better understanding of these signalling cascades and represent therefore an attractive target to control cell degenerative processes. In that context, selective disruption of the upstream Grb2/Sos complex in the Ras/MAPK cascade has focused extensive work. The Sos PPII decapeptide, which interacts with the Grb2-SH3 domains, has been modified in various positions and the best inhibitors designed so far are either dimeric ligands or peptoid analogues of the VPPPVPPRRR sequence. We report the synthesis of new Grb2 ligands in which the key Val5 residue has been replaced by a cis C(beta)-substituted proline. Both fluorescence and ITC assays have been employed to measure the affinity of these substituted peptides for a recombinant Grb2 protein. Whereas proline in position 5 completely abolished the binding potency, a cis C(beta)-methyl-L-proline restored the affinity. Other cis C(beta)-proline substituents led to a complete loss of binding potency. Combining the best modifications: a cis C(beta)-methylproline 5, N-acetylation, C-carboxamide and dimerization yielded a 560-fold affinity enhancement compared to the wild-type VPPPVPPRRR sequence. This study shows that C(beta)-substituted prolines may constitute a new alternative for PPII ligands, combining entropy and enthalpy beneficial effects.
Measurement of the formation of complexes in tyrosine kinase-mediated signal transduction.	Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) provides highly complementary data to high-resolution structural detail. An overview of the methodology of the technique is provided. Ultimately, the correlation of the thermodynamic parameters determined by ITC with structural perturbation observed on going from the free to the bound state should be possible at an atomic level. Currently, thermodynamic data provide some insight as to potential changes occurring on complex formation. Here, this is demonstrated in the context of in vitro quantification of intracellular tyrosine kinase-mediated signal transduction and the issue of specificity of the important interactions. The apparent lack of specificity in the interactions of domains of proteins involved in early signalling from membrane-bound receptors is demonstrated using data from ITC.
Computational analyses of the surface properties of protein-protein interfaces.	Several potential applications of structural biology depend on discovering how one macromolecule might recognize a partner. Experiment remains the best way to answer this question, but computational tools can contribute where this fails. In such cases, structures may be studied to identify patches of exposed residues that have properties common to interaction surfaces and the locations of these patches can serve as the basis for further modelling or for further experimentation. To date, interaction surfaces have been proposed on the basis of unusual physical properties, unusual propensities for particular amino-acid types or an unusually high level of sequence conservation. Using the CXXSurface toolkit, developed as a part of the CCP4MG program, a suite of tools to analyse the properties of surfaces and their interfaces in complexes has been prepared and applied. These tools have enabled the rapid analysis of known complexes to evaluate the distribution of (i) hydrophobicity, (ii) electrostatic complementarity and (iii) sequence conservation in authentic complexes, so as to assess the extent to which these properties may be useful indicators of probable biological function.
Crystal structure of mammalian alpha1,6-fucosyltransferase, FUT8.	Mammalian alpha1,6-fucosyltransferase (FUT8) catalyses the transfer of a fucose residue from a donor substrate, guanosine 5'-diphosphate-beta-L-fucose to the reducing terminal N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) of the core structure of an asparagine-linked oligosaccharide. Alpha1,6-fucosylation, also referred to as core fucosylation, plays an essential role in various pathophysiological events. Our group reported that FUT8 null mice showed severe growth retardation and emphysema-like lung-destruction as a result of the dysfunction of epidermal growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta receptors. To elucidate the molecular basis of FUT8 with respect to pathophysiology, the crystal structure of human FUT8 was determined at 2.6 A resolution. The overall structure of FUT8 was found to consist of three domains: an N-terminal coiled-coil domain, a catalytic domain, and a C-terminal SH3 domain. The catalytic region appears to be similar to GT-B glycosyltransferases rather than GT-A. The C-terminal part of the catalytic domain of FUT8 includes a Rossmann fold with three regions that are conserved in alpha1,6-, alpha1,2-, and protein O-fucosyltransferases. The SH3 domain of FUT8 is similar to other SH3 domain-containing proteins, although the significance of this domain remains to be elucidated. The present findings of FUT8 suggest that the conserved residues in the three conserved regions participate in the Rossmann fold and act as the donor binding site, or in catalysis, thus playing key roles in the fucose-transferring reaction.
19F NMR studies of solvent exposure and peptide binding to an SH3 domain.	(19)F NMR was used to study topological features of the SH3 domain of Fyn tyrosine kinase for both the free protein and a complex formed with a binding peptide. Metafluorinated tyrosine was biosynthetically incorporated into each of 5 residues of the G48M mutant of the SH3 domain (i.e. residues 8, 10, 49 and 54 in addition to a single residue in the linker region to the C-terminal polyhistidine tag). Distinct (19)F NMR resonances were observed and subsequently assigned after separately introducing single phenylalanine mutations. (19)F NMR chemical shifts were dependent on protein concentration above 0.6 mM, suggestive of dimerization via the binding site in the vicinity of the tyrosine side chains. (19)F NMR spectra of Fyn SH3 were also obtained as a function of concentration of a small peptide (2-hydroxynicotinic-NH)-Arg-Ala-Leu-Pro-Pro-Leu-Pro-diaminopropionic acid -NH(2), known to interact with the canonical polyproline II (PPII) helix binding site of the SH3 domain. Based on the (19)F chemical shifts of Tyr8, Tyr49, and Tyr54, as a function of peptide concentration, an equilibrium dissociation constant of 18 +/- 4 microM was obtained. Analysis of the line widths suggested an average exchange rate, k(ex), associated with the peptide-protein two-site exchange, of 5200 +/- 600 s(-1) at a peptide concentration where 96% of the FynSH3 protein was assumed to be bound. The extent of solvent exposure of the fluorine labels was studied by a combination of solvent isotope shifts and paramagnetic effects from dissolved oxygen. Tyr54, Tyr49, Tyr10, and Tyr8, in addition to the Tyr on the C-terminal tag, appear to be fully exposed to the solvent at the metafluoro position in the absence of binding peptide. Tyr54 and, to some extent, Tyr10 become protected from the solvent in the peptide bound state, consistent with known structural data on SH3-domain peptide complexes. These results show the potential utility of (19)F-metafluorotyrosine to probe protein-protein interactions in conjunction with paramagnetic contrast agents.
Loss of Src homology region 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 increases CD8+ T cell-APC conjugate formation and is associated with enhanced in vivo CTL function.	Extensive evidence has been accumulated to implicate the intracellular protein tyrosine phosphatase, Src homology region 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP-1), as a negative regulator of TCR-signaling thresholds. Specifically, T cells from the SHP-1-deficient mouse, motheaten, exhibit a hyperproliferative phenotype when activated by cognate peptide-pulsed APCs. However, the cellular basis for this phenotype has not been fully explained. Using the intracellular fluorescent dye, CFSE, we show that a greater proportion of motheaten vs control naive CD8(+) T cells undergo cell division when activated by peptide-pulsed APCs. Furthermore, there is a greater likelihood of TCRs on SHP-1-deficient vs control T cells binding to peptide/MHC ligands on APCs when using TCR down-regulation as an indirect measure of TCR engagement. In addition, T cell-APC conjugate assays provide direct evidence that a greater proportion of SHP-1-deficient T cells are capable of forming stable conjugates with APCs and this may explain, at least in part, their hyperproliferative response to TCR-triggered stimulation. The physiological relevance of the combined in vitro observations is demonstrated by the significantly enhanced in vivo expansion and CTL capacity generated in mice receiving adoptively transferred SHP-1-deficient naive CD8(+) T cells when compared with control T cells.
High resolution crystal structures of the p120 RasGAP SH3 domain.	X-ray structures of two crystal forms of the Src homology 3 domain (SH3) of the Ras GTPase activating protein (RasGAP) were determined at 1.5 and 1.8A resolution. The overall structure comprises a single domain with two tightly packed beta-sheets linked by a short helical segment. An important motif for peptide binding in other SH3 domains is not conserved in RasGAP. The RasGAP SH3 domain forms dimers in the crystal structures, which may provide new functional insight. The dimer interface involves residues also present in a peptide previously identified as an apoptotic sensitizer of tumor cells.
The phosphotyrosine-independent interaction of DLC-1 and the SH2 domain of cten regulates focal adhesion localization and growth suppression activity of DLC-1.	The tensin family member cten (C-terminal tensin like) is an Src homology 2 (SH2) and phosphotyrosine binding domain-containing focal adhesion molecule that may function as a tumor suppressor. However, the mechanism has not been well established. We report that cten binds to another tumor suppressor, deleted in liver cancer 1 (DLC-1), and the SH2 domain of cten is responsible for the interaction. Unexpectedly, the interaction between DLC-1 and the cten SH2 domain is independent of tyrosine phosphorylation of DLC-1. By site-directed mutagenesis, we have identified several amino acid residues on cten and DLC-1 that are essential for this interaction. Mutations on DLC-1 perturb the interaction with cten and disrupt the focal adhesion localization of DLC-1. Furthermore, these DLC-1 mutants have lost their tumor suppression activities. When these DLC-1 mutants were fused to a focal adhesion targeting sequence, their tumor suppression activities were significantly restored. These results provide a novel mechanism whereby the SH2 domain of cten-mediated focal adhesion localization of DLC-1 plays an essential role in its tumor suppression activity.
Utilization of achiral alkenyl amines for the preparation of high affinity Grb2 SH2 domain-binding macrocycles by ring-closing metathesis.	A family of previously reported ring-closing metathesis (RCM)-derived macrocycles that exhibit potent Grb2 SH2 domain-binding affinity is characterized by stereoselectively-introduced upper ring junctions that bear bicyclic aryl substituents. However, the synthetic complexity of these macrocycles presents a potential limit to their therapeutic application. Therefore, the current study was undertaken to simplify these macrocycles through the use of achiral 4-pentenylamides as ring-forming components. A series of macrocycles (5a-f) was prepared bearing both open and cyclic constructs at the upper ring junction. The Grb2 SH2 domain-binding affinities of these macrocycles varied, with higher affinities being obtained with cyclo-substituents. The most potent analogue (5d) contained a cyclohexyl group and exhibited Grb2 SH2 domain-binding affinity (K(D) = 1.3 nM) that was nearly equal to the parent macrocycle (2), which bore a stereoselectively-introduced naphthylmethyl substituent at the upper ring junction (K(D) = 0.9 nM). The results of this study advance design considerations that should facilitate the development of Grb2 SH2 domain-binding antagonists.
Obligatory role for phospholipase C-gamma(1) in villin-induced epithelial cell migration.	While there is circumstantial evidence to suggest a requirement for phospholipase C-gamma(1) (PLC-gamma(1)) in actin reorganization and cell migration, few studies have examined the direct mechanisms that link regulators of the actin cytoskeleton with this crucial signaling molecule. This study was aimed to examine the role that villin, an epithelial cell-specific actin-binding protein, and its ligand PLC-gamma(1) play in migration in intestinal and renal epithelial cell lines that endogenously or ectopically express human villin. Basal as well as epidermal growth factor (EGF)-stimulated cell migration was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of villin and its association with PLC-gamma(1). Inhibition of villin phosphorylation prevented villin-PLC-gamma(1) complex formation as well as villin-induced cell migration. The absolute requirement for PLC-gamma(1) in villin-induced cell migration was demonstrated by measuring cell motility in PLC-gamma(1)(-/-) cells and by downregulation of endogenous PLC-gamma(1). EGF-stimulated direct interaction of villin with the Src homology domain 2 domain of PLC-gamma(1) at the plasma membrane was demonstrated in living cells by using fluorescence resonance energy transfer. These results demonstrate that villin provides an important link between the activation of phosphoinositide signal transduction pathway and epithelial cell migration.
Estrogen receptor alpha--identification by a modeling approach of a potential polyproline II recognizing domain within the AF-2 region of the receptor that would play a role of prime importance in its mechanism of action.	Estrogen receptors (ERs) behave not only as ligand-dependent transcriptional factors; they can also trigger non-genomic responses involving mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPKs), reported to be crucial in transduction cascades. MAPKs are partially activated by proteins with domains able to interact with polyproline II (PPII) regions. Recent studies have brought up the direct interaction of PPII-containing proteins with the alpha subtype human ER (ERalpha). Such observations suggest that ERalpha may contain a "PPII recognizing domain" (PRD). By sequence alignment, we identified such a potential PRD within the AF-2 region of ERalpha (residues 351-414). According to our modeling studies based on X-ray structural data, this PRD appears to be divided in two sub-regions known to interact with alpha-helix containing coactivators. Our data also reveal the potential existence of intramolecular interactions of this domain with a large PPII-rich region of the receptor (residues 301-330). Implication of these regulatory structural elements in both genomic and non-genomic responses seems likely.
p200 RhoGAP promotes cell proliferation by mediating cross-talk between Ras and Rho signaling pathways.	p200 RhoGAP, a member of the Rho GTPase-activating protein (RhoGAP) family, was previously implicated in the regulation of neurite outgrowth through its RhoGAP activity. Here we show that ectopic expression of p200 RhoGAP stimulates fibroblast cell proliferation and cell cycle progression, leading to transformation. The morphology of the foci induced by p200 RhoGAP is distinct from that formed by Rac or Rho activation but similar to that induced by oncogenic Ras, raising the possibility that p200 RhoGAP may engage Ras signaling. Expression of p200 RhoGAP results in a significant increase of Ras-GTP and the activation of two downstream signaling pathways of Ras, ERK1/2 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Inhibition of Ras or ERK1/2, but not phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, effectively suppresses the foci formation induced by p200 RhoGAP, suggesting that the Ras-ERK pathway is required for p200 RhoGAP-mediated cell transformation. p200 RhoGAP co-localizes with p120 RasGAP in cells and forms a complex with p120 RasGAP, and this interaction is mediated by the C-terminal region and the Src homology 3 domain of p200 RhoGAP and p120 RasGAP, respectively. Mutations of p200 RhoGAP that disrupt interaction with p120 RasGAP abolish its Ras activation and cell transforming activities. Interestingly, the RhoGAP activity of the N-terminal RhoGAP domain in p200 RhoGAP is also required for its full transforming activity, and expression of a dominant negative RhoA mutant that blocks RhoA cycling between the GDP- and GTP-bound states suppresses p200 RhoGAP transformation. These results suggest that a Rho GTPase-activating protein may have a positive input to cell proliferation and provide evidence that p200 RhoGAP can mediate cross-talks between Ras- and Rho-regulated signaling pathways in cell growth regulation.
Low-throughput model design of protein folding inhibitors.	The stabilization energy of proteins in their native conformation is not distributed uniformly among all the amino acids, but is concentrated in few (short) fragments, fragments which play a key role in the folding process and in the stability of the protein. Peptides displaying the same sequence as these key fragments can compete with the formation of the most important native contacts, destabilizing the protein and thus inhibiting its biological activity. We present an essentially automatic method to individuate such peptidic inhibitors based on a low-throughput screening of the fragments which build the target protein. The efficiency and generality of the method is tested on proteins Src-SH3, G, CI2, and HIV-1-PR with the help of a simplified computational model. In each of the cases studied, we find few peptides displaying strong inhibitory properties, properties which are quite robust with respect to point mutations. The possibility of implementing the method through low-throughput experimental screening of the target protein is discussed.
Adaptor protein SH2-B linking receptor-tyrosine kinase and Akt promotes adipocyte differentiation by regulating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma messenger ribonucleic acid levels.	Adipocyte differentiation is regulated by insulin and IGF-I, which transmit signals by activating their receptor tyrosine kinase. SH2-B is an adaptor protein containing pleckstrin homology and Src homology 2 (SH2) domains that have been implicated in insulin and IGF-I receptor signaling. In this study, we found a strong link between SH2-B levels and adipogenesis. The fat mass and expression of adipogenic genes including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) were reduced in white adipose tissue of SH2-B-/- mice. Reduced adipocyte differentiation of SH2-B-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) was observed in response to insulin and dexamethasone, whereas retroviral SH2-B overexpression enhanced differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes to adipocytes. SH2-B overexpression enhanced mRNA level of PPARgamma in 3T3-L1 cells, whereas PPARgamma levels were reduced in SH2-B-deficient MEFs in response to insulin. SH2-B-mediated up-regulation of PPARgamma mRNA was blocked by a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor, but not by a MAPK kinase inhibitor. Insulin-induced Akt activation and the phosphorylation of forkhead transcription factor (FKHR/Foxo1), a negative regulator of PPARgamma transcription, were up-regulated by SH2-B overexpression, but reduced in SH2-B-deficient MEFs. These data indicate that SH2-B is a key regulator of adipogenesis both in vivo and in vitro by regulating the insulin/IGF-I receptor-Akt-Foxo1-PPARgamma pathway.
Improved structural characterizations of the drkN SH3 domain unfolded state suggest a compact ensemble with native-like and non-native structure.	Due to their dynamic ensemble nature and a deficiency of experimental restraints, disordered states of proteins are difficult to characterize structurally. Here, we have expanded upon our previous work on the unfolded state of the Drosophila drk N-terminal (drkN) SH3 domain with our program ENSEMBLE, which assigns population weights to pregenerated conformers in order to calculate ensembles of structures whose properties are collectively consistent with experimental measurements. The experimental restraint set has been enlarged with newly measured paramagnetic relaxation enhancements from Cu(2+) bound to an amino terminal Cu(2+)-Ni(2+) binding (ATCUN) motif as well as nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) and hydrogen exchange data from recent studies. In addition, two new pseudo-energy minimization algorithms have been implemented that have dramatically improved the speed of ENSEMBLE population weight assignment. Finally, we have greatly improved our conformational sampling by utilizing a variety of techniques to generate both random structures and structures that are biased to contain elements of native-like or non-native structure. Although it is not possible to uniquely define a representative structural ensemble, we have been able to assess various properties of the drkN SH3 domain unfolded state by performing ENSEMBLE minimizations of different conformer pools. Specifically, we have found that the experimental restraint set enforces a compact structural distribution that is not consistent with an overall native-like topology but shows preference for local non-native structure in the regions corresponding to the diverging turn and the beta5 strand of the folded state and for local native-like structure in the region corresponding to the beta6 and beta7 strands. We suggest that this approach could be generally useful for the structural characterization of disordered states.
Isoform selective inhibition of STAT1 or STAT3 homo-dimerization via peptidomimetic probes: structural recognition of STAT SH2 domains.	The identification of constitutively activated STAT (Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription) proteins in aberrant cell signaling pathways has led to investigations targeting the selective disruption of specific STAT isoforms directly associated with oncogenisis. We have identified, through the design of a library of peptidomimetic inhibitors, agents that selectively disrupt STAT1 or STAT3 homo-dimerization at low micromolar concentrations. ISS840 has 20-fold higher inhibition of STAT1 homo-dimerization (IC(50) value of 31 microM) relative to STAT3 (IC(50) value of 560 microM).
c-Src activates endonuclease-mediated mRNA decay.	The mRNA endonuclease PMR1 initiates mRNA decay by forming a selective complex with its translating substrate mRNA. Previous work showed that the ability of PMR1 to target to polysomes and activate decay depends on the phosphorylation of a tyrosine residue at position 650. The current study shows that c-Src is responsible for activating this mRNA decay pathway. c-Src was recovered with immunoprecipitated PMR1, and it phosphorylates PMR1 in vitro and in vivo. The interaction with c-Src involves two domains of PMR1: Y650 and a series of proline-rich SH3 peptides in the N terminus. In cells with little c-Src, PMR1 targeting to polysomes is induced by constitutively active c-Src but not by inactive forms of the kinase. Similarly, only active c-Src induces PMR1-mediated mRNA decay. Finally, we show that EGF rapidly induces c-Src phosphorylation of PMR1, providing a direct link between tyrosine kinase-mediated signal transduction and mRNA decay.
Integrin alpha v beta 3 controls activity and oncogenic potential of primed c-Src.	Increased activity of the proto-oncogene c-Src and elevated levels of integrin alpha(v)beta(3) are found in melanomas and multiple carcinomas. Regulation of c-Src involves "priming" through disruption of intramolecular interactions followed by "activation" through phosphorylation in the kinase domain. Interactions with overexpressed receptor tyrosine kinases or mutations in the SRC gene can induce priming of c-Src in cancer. Here, we show that alpha(v)beta(3) promotes activation of primed c-Src, causing enhanced phosphorylation of established Src substrates, survival, proliferation, and tumor growth. The beta(3) cytoplasmic tail is required and sufficient for integrin-mediated stimulation of all these events through a mechanism that is independent of beta(3) tyrosine phosphorylation. Instead, experiments using Src variants containing the v-Src Src homology 3 (SH3) domain and using mutant beta(3) subunits indicate that a functional interaction of the beta(3) cytoplasmic tail with the c-Src SH3 domain is required. These findings delineate a novel integrin-controlled oncogenic signaling cascade and suggest that the interaction of alpha(v)beta(3) with c-Src may represent a novel target for therapeutic intervention.
Examination of acylated 4-aminopiperidine-4-carboxylic acid residues in the phosphotyrosyl+1 position of Grb2 SH2 domain-binding tripeptides.	A 4-aminopiperidine-4-carboxylic acid residue was placed in the pTyr+1 position of a Grb2 SH2 domain-binding peptide to form a general platform, which was then acylated with a variety of groups to yield a library of compounds designed to explore potential binding interactions, with protein features lying below the betaD strand. The highest affinities were obtained using phenylethyl carbamate and phenylbutyrylamide functionalities.
Regulation of class IA PI3Ks.	Class IA PI3Ks (phosphoinositide 3-kinases) regulate a wide range of cellular responses through the production of PI(3,4,5)P(3) (phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate) in cellular membranes. They are activated by receptor tyrosine kinases, by Ras and Rho family GTPases, and in some cases by G(betagamma) subunits from trimeric G-proteins. Crystallographic studies on the related class IB PI3Kgamma, and biochemical and structural studies on the class IA PI3Ks, have led to new insights into how these critical enzymes are regulated in normal cells and how mutations can lead to their constitutive activation in transformed cells. The present paper will discuss recent studies on the regulation of class I (p85/p110) PI3Ks, with a focus on the role of SH2 domains (Src homology 2 domains) in the p85 regulatory subunit in modulating PI3K activity.
Phosphotyrosine/phosphoserine binary switches: a new paradigm for the regulation of PI3K signalling and growth factor pleiotropy?	Cytokines and growth factors exert multiple biological activities through their ability to engage and activate specific receptors displayed on the surface of cells. How these receptors are able to differentially (and sometimes independently) regulate cell survival, proliferation, differentiation and activation to control quite specific and distinct cellular outcomes is unclear. Similarly, how a single growth factor or cytokine receptor can specify alternate cellular responses and control very different cellular fates is also not known. We present a new mechanism by which cytokines and growth factors are able to control these pleiotropic responses.
The role of SHIP1 in T-lymphocyte life and death.	SHIP1 [SH2 (Src homology 2)-containing inositol phosphatase-1], an inositol 5-phosphatase expressed in haemopoietic cells, acts by hydrolysing the 5-phosphates from PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) and Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4), thereby negatively regulating the PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase) pathway. SHIP1 plays a major role in inhibiting proliferation of myeloid cells. As a result, SHIP1(-/-) mice have an increased number of neutrophils and monocytes/macrophages due to enhanced survival and proliferation of their progenitors. Although SHIP1 contributes to PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) metabolism in T-lymphocytes, its exact role in this cell type is much less explored. Jurkat cells have recently emerged as an interesting tool to study SHIP1 function in T-cells because they do not express SHIP1 at the protein level, thereby allowing reintroduction experiments in a relatively easy-to-use system. Data obtained from SHIP1 reintroduction have revealed that SHIP1 not only acts as a negative player in T-cell lines proliferation, but also regulates critical pathways, such as NF-kappaB (nuclear factor kappaB) activation, and also appears to remarkably inhibit T-cell apoptosis. On the other hand, experiments using primary T-cells from SHIP1(-/-) mice have highlighted a new role for SHIP1 in regulatory T-cell development, but also emphasize that this protein is not required for T-cell proliferation. In support of these results, SHIP1(-/-) mice are lymphopenic, suggesting that SHIP1 function in T-cells differs from its role in the myeloid lineage.
Study of the SH3-domain GRB2-like 2 gene expression in laryngeal carcinoma.	Laryngeal carcinoma is a common malignant tumor of the upper respiratory tract, and in 95% of cases the tumor is laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). The abnormity of SH3-domain GRB2-like 2 (SH3GL2) gene was found in LSCC. In order to clarify the relationship between SH3GL2 gene and LSCC, we evaluated the expression of the SH3GL2 gene in LSCC.
The Cbl-interacting protein TULA inhibits dynamin-dependent endocytosis.	The Cbl- and ubiquitin-interacting protein T-cell ubiquitin ligand (TULA) has been demonstrated to inhibit endocytosis and downregulation of ligand-activated EGF receptor (EGFR) by impairing Cbl-induced ubiquitination. We presently report that TULA additionally inhibited clathrin-dependent endocytosis in general, as both uptake of transferrin (Tf) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) was inhibited. Additionally, endocytosis of the raft proteins CD59 and major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), which we demonstrate were mainly endocytosed clathrin-independently, but dynamin-dependently, was blocked in cells overexpressing TULA. By contrast, the uptake of ricin, which is mainly endocytosed clathrin- and dynamin-independently, was not affected by overexpressed TULA. Consistently, TULA and dynamin co-immunoprecipitated and colocalized intracellularly, and upon overexpression of dynamin the TULA-mediated inhibitory effect on endocytosis of Tf, LDL, CD59 and MHC-I was counteracted. Overexpressed dynamin did not restore ubiquitination of the EGFR, and consistently dynamin did not rescue endocytosis of the EGFR in cells overexpressing TULA. We conclude that TULA inhibits both clathrin-dependent and clathrin-independent endocytic pathways by functionally sequestering dynamin via the SH3 domain of TULA binding proline-rich sequences in dynamin.
Identification of novel fragment compounds targeted against the pY pocket of v-Src SH2 by computational and NMR screening and thermodynamic evaluation.	Discovery of small molecule inhibitors of protein-protein interactions is a major challenge to pharmaceutical development. Fragment-based approaches have begun to be widely adopted as an effective way of exploring chemical space on a protein surface with reduced library size. On completion of a fragment screen, the subsequent selection of appropriate "hit" molecules for development is a key decision point. Thermodynamic parameters can be used in this decision process. In this work, a fragment identification protocol based on a virtual fragment analysis and selection followed by 19F NMR screening was directed at the phosphotyrosine binding site of the Src SH2 domain. Three new ligands were identified. Isothermal titration calorimetry was used to provide thermodynamic parameters for the physiologically relevant ligand and the selected fragments. One of these fragments possesses a highly favorable enthalpic contribution to complex formation compared to other fragments and to the physiologically relevant ligand suggesting that it would make a good candidate for compound development.
The high-resolution NMR structure of the R21A Spc-SH3:P41 complex: understanding the determinants of binding affinity by comparison with Abl-SH3.	SH3 domains are small protein modules of 60-85 amino acids that bind to short proline-rich sequences with moderate-to-low affinity and specificity. Interactions with SH3 domains play a crucial role in regulation of many cellular processes (some are related to cancer and AIDS) and have thus been interesting targets in drug design. The decapeptide APSYSPPPPP (p41) binds with relatively high affinity to the SH3 domain of the Abl tyrosine kinase (Abl-SH3), while it has a 100 times lower affinity for the alpha-spectrin SH3 domain (Spc-SH3).
Mutation in the SH1 helix reduces the activation energy of the ATP-induced conformational transition of myosin.	The SH1 helix is a joint that links the converter subdomain to the rest of the myosin motor domain. Recently, we showed that a mutation within the SH1 helix in Dictyostelium myosin II (R689H) reduced the elasticity and thermal stability of the protein. To reveal the involvement of the SH1 helix in ATP-dependent conformational changes of the motor domain, we have investigated the effects of the R689H mutation on the conformational changes of the converter, using a GFP-based fluorescence resonance energy transfer method. Although the mutation does not seem to strongly affect conformations, we found that it significantly reduced the activation energy required for the ATP-induced conformational transition corresponding to the recovery stroke. Given the effects of the mutation on the mechanical properties of myosin, we propose that the SH1 helix plays an important role in the mechanochemical energy conversion underlying the conformational change of the myosin motor domain.
An alpha-helical burst in the src SH3 folding pathway.	Src SH3 is a small all-beta-sheet protein composed of a single domain. We studied the folding behavior of src SH3 at various conditions by circular dichroism (CD), fluorescence, and X-ray solution scattering methods. On the src SH3 folding pathway, an alpha-helix-rich intermediate appeared not only at subzero temperatures but also above 0 degrees C. The fraction of alpha-helix in the kinetically observed intermediate is ca. 26% based on the kinetic CD experiment. X-ray solution scattering revealed that the intermediate was compact but not fully packed. The analysis of CD implies that the amplitude of the burst phase is proportional to the helical fraction calculated according to the helix-coil transition theory. This strongly suggests that the initial folding core is formed by the collapse of much less stably existing alpha-helices.
Versatile retargeting of SH3 domain binding by modification of non-conserved loop residues.	Src-homology (SH3) domain belongs to a class of ubiquitous modular protein domains found in nature. SH3 domains have a conserved surface that recognises proline-rich peptides in ligand proteins, but additional contacts also contribute to binding. Using the SH3 domain of hematopoietic cell kinase as a test case, we show that SH3 binding properties can be profoundly altered by modifications within a hexapeptide sequence in the RT-loop region that is not involved in recognition of currently known consensus SH3 target peptides. These results highlight the role of non-conserved regions in SH3 target selection, and introduce a strategy that may be generally feasible for generating artificial SH3 domains with desired ligand binding properties.
Crystallographic structure of the SH3 domain of the human c-Yes tyrosine kinase: loop flexibility and amyloid aggregation.	SH3 domains from the Src family of tyrosine kinases represent an interesting example of the delicate balance between promiscuity and specificity characteristic of proline-rich ligand recognition by SH3 domains. The development of inhibitors of therapeutic potential requires a good understanding of the molecular determinants of binding affinity and specificity and relies on the availability of high quality structural information. Here, we present the first high-resolution crystal structure of the SH3 domain of the c-Yes oncogen. Comparison with other SH3 domains from the Src family revealed significant deviations in the loop regions. In particular, the n-Src loop, highly flexible and partially disordered, is stabilized in an unusual conformation by the establishment of several intramolecular hydrogen bonds. Additionally, we present here the first report of amyloid aggregation by an SH3 domain from the Src family.
Src phosphorylates Tyr284 in TGF-beta type II receptor and regulates TGF-beta stimulation of p38 MAPK during breast cancer cell proliferation and invasion.	Genetic and epigenetic events often negate the cytostatic function of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in mammary epithelial cells (MEC), which ultimately enables malignant MECs to proliferate, invade, and metastasize when stimulated by TGF-beta. The molecular mechanisms underlying this phenotypic conversion of TGF-beta function during mammary tumorigenesis remain poorly defined. We previously established alpha(v)beta(3) integrin and Src as essential mediators of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation, invasion, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition stimulated by TGF-beta in normal and malignant MECs. Mechanistically, beta(3) integrin interacted physically with the TGF-beta type II receptor (TbetaR-II), leading to its tyrosine phosphorylation by Src and the initiation of oncogenic signaling by TGF-beta. We now show herein that Src phosphorylated TbetaR-II on Y284 both in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, although the expression of Y284F-TbetaR-II mutants in breast cancer cells had no effect on TGF-beta stimulation of Smad2/3, this TbetaR-II mutant completely abrogated p38 MAPK activation by TGF-beta. Accordingly, Src-mediated phosphorylation of Y284 coordinated the docking of the SH2 domains of growth factor receptor binding protein 2 (Grb2) and Src homology domain 2 containing (Shc) TbetaR-II, thereby associating these adapter proteins to MAPK activation by TGF-beta. Importantly, Y284F-TbetaR-II mutants also abrogated breast cancer cell invasion induced by alpha(v)beta(3) integrin and TGF-beta as well as partially restored their cytostatic response to TGF-beta. Our findings have identified a novel alpha(v)beta(3) integrin/Src/Y284/TbetaR-II signaling axis that promotes oncogenic signaling by TGF-beta in malignant MECs and suggest that antagonizing this signaling axis may one day prove beneficial in treating patients with metastatic breast cancers.
Crystallization by capillary counter-diffusion and structure determination of the N114A mutant of the SH3 domain of Abl tyrosine kinase complexed with a high-affinity peptide ligand.	The recognition of proline-rich ligands by SH3 domains is part of the process leading to diseases such as cancer or AIDS. Understanding the molecular determinants of the binding affinity and specificity of these interactions is crucial for the development of potent inhibitors with therapeutic potential. In this study, the crystallographic structure of the N114A mutant of the SH3 domain of the Abelson leukaemia virus tyrosine kinase complexed with a high-affinity peptide is presented. The crystallization was carried out using the capillary counter-diffusion technique, which facilitates the screening, manipulation and transport of the crystals and allows the collection of X-ray data directly from the capillary in which the crystals were grown. The crystals of the N114A mutant belong to the orthorhombic P2(1)2(1)2(1) space group, with unit-cell parameters a = 48.2, b = 50.1, c = 56.4 A. The quality of the diffraction data set has allowed the structure of the complex to be determined at a resolution limit of 1.75 A.
Solution structure of the first SH3 domain of human vinexin and its interaction with vinculin peptides.	Solution structure of the first Src homology (SH) 3 domain of human vinexin (V_SH3_1) was determined using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) method and revealed that it was a canonical SH3 domain, which has a typical beta-beta-beta-beta-alpha-beta fold. Using chemical shift perturbation and surface plasmon resonance experiments, we studied the binding properties of the SH3 domain with two different peptides from vinculin hinge regions: P856 and P868. The observations illustrated slightly different affinities of the two peptides binding to V_SH3_1. The interaction between P868 and V_SH3_1 belonged to intermediate exchange with a modest binding affinity, while the interaction between P856 and V_SH3_1 had a low binding affinity. The structure and ligand-binding interface of V_SH3_1 provide a structural basis for the further functional study of this important molecule.
Up-regulated cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein expression in allergen-stimulated T cells from hen's egg-allergic patients.	Although changes in the fine balance of allergen-specific T cells are crucial in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases, their roles in the allergic reaction to hen's eggs (HE) have not yet been fully analysed.
The X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome gene product SAP regulates B cell function through the FcgammaRIIB receptor.	X-linked lympho-proliferative (XLP) is an immunodeficiency condition caused by mutation or deletion of the gene encoding the adaptor protein SAP/SH2D1A. Besides defects in T cell and NK cell function and an absence of NKT cells, XLP can also manifest as lymphomas resulting primarily from uncontrolled B cell proliferation upon acute infection by Epstein-Barr virus. While it has been demonstrated that SAP regulates the functions of T cells and NK cells through the SLAM family of immunoreceptors, its role in B cells has not been defined. Here we show that SAP forms a ternary complex with the kinase Lyn and the inhibitory IgG Fc receptor FcgammaRIIB to regulate B cell proliferation and survival. SAP binds directly and simultaneously to the Lyn SH3 domain and an Immuno-receptor Tyrosine-based Inhibitory Motif (ITIM) in FcgammaRIIB, resulting in the activation of the latter. Moreover, SAP associates with FcgammaRIIB in mouse splenic B cells and promotes its tyrosine phosphorylation. Expression of SAP in the A20 B cell line led to a marked reduction in Blnk phosphorylation, a decrease in Akt activation, and a near-complete ablation of phosphorylation of the MAP kinases Erk1/2, p38 and JNK upon colligation of FcgammaRIIB with the B cell receptor (BCR). In contrast, an XLP-causing SAP mutant was much less efficient in eliciting these effects in B cells. Furthermore, compared to A20 cells, SAP transfectants displayed a significantly reduced rate of proliferation and an increased sensitivity to activation-induced cell death. Collectively these data identify an intrinsic function for SAP in inhibitory signaling in B cells and suggests that SAP may play an important role in balancing positive versus negative immune responses.
Capns1, a new binding partner of RasGAP-SH3 domain in K-Ras(V12) oncogenic cells: modulation of cell survival and migration.	Ras GTPase-activating protein (RasGAP) is hypothesized to be an effector of oncogenic Ras stimulating numerous downstream cellular signaling cascades involved in survival, proliferation and motility. In this study, we identified calpain small subunit-1 (Capns1) as a new RasGAP-SH3 domain binding partner, using yeast two-hybrid screening. The interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation assay and was found specific to cells expressing oncogenic K-Ras. We used confocal microscopy to analyze our stably transfected cell model producing mutant Ras (PC3Ras(V12)). Staining for RasGAP-SH3/Capns1 co-localization was two-fold stronger in the protrusions of Ras(V12) cells than in PC3 cells. RasGAP or Capns1 knockdown in PC3Ras(V12) cells induced a two- to three-fold increase in apoptosis. Capns1 gene silencing reduced the speed and increased the persistence of movement in PC3Ras(V12) cells. In contrast, RasGAP knockdown in PC3Ras(V12) cells increased cell migration. Knockdown of both proteins altered the speed and directionality of cell motility. Our findings suggest that RasGAP and Capns1 interaction in oncogenic Ras cells is involved in regulating migration and cell survival.
Synthesis and utilization of chiral alpha-methylated alpha-amino acids with a carboxyalkyl side chain in the design of novel Grb2-SH2 peptide inhibitors free of phosphotyrosine.	The growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2) is an SH2 domain-containing docking module that represents an attractive target for anticancer therapeutic intervention. To improve the potency and bioavailability of the Grb2-SH2 inhibitors, the chiral alpha-methyl-alpha-carboxyalkyl amino acid [(alpha-Me)Aa] was designed to cover dual structural and functional features separately contributed by 1-aminocyclohexanecarboxylic acid (Ac6c) and alpha-aminoadipic acid (Adi) in position Y + 1. The enantiopure l(or D)-(alpha-Me)Aa bearing various chain length carboxylalkyl side chain was conveniently synthesized by an optimized oxazolidinone methodology. The incorporation of (S)-(alpha-Me)Aa into the non-pTyr-containing peptide framework with a 5-amino acid sequence binding motif of X (-2)-Leu-(3'-substituted-Tyr) (0)-X (+1)-Asn really improved the inhibitory activity, affording potent (R)-sulfoxide-bridged cyclic and an open-chain series of pentapeptide inhibitors of Grb2-SH2 domain (IC 50 = 1.1-5.8 microM). More significantly, these (alpha-Me)Aa incorporated peptide inhibitors showed excellent activities in inhibiting the growth of erbB2-dependent MDA-MB-453 tumor cell lines with low micromolar IC 50 values, owing to the reduced peptidic nature and absence of pTyr or pTyr mimetics.
Native state dynamics drive the unfolding of the SH3 domain of PI3 kinase at high denaturant concentration.	Little is known about the role of protein dynamics in directing protein unfolding along a specific pathway and about the role played by chemical denaturants in modulating the dynamics and the initiation of unfolding. In this study, deuterium-hydrogen exchange (HX) detected by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) was used to study the unfolding of the SH3 domain of the PI3 kinase. Unfolding on the principal unfolding pathway occurs in 2 steps, both in the absence and in the presence of 1.8 M guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl). In both cases, the first step leads to the formation of an intermediate, I(N), with 5 fewer protected amide hydrogen sites than in N. In the second step, I(N) loses the structure protecting the remaining 14 amide hydrogen sites from HX as it unfolds completely. ESI-MS analysis of fragments of the protein created by proteolytic digestion, after completion of the HX reaction, shows that I(N) has lost protection against HX in the same segments of native structure during unfolding in the absence and presence of 1.8 M GdnHCl. Hence, GdnHCl does not appear to play a direct active role in the initiation of unfolding. However, at higher GdnHCl concentrations, a second unfolding pathway is shown to compete effectively with the N <--> I(N) <--> U pathway. In this way, the denaturant modulates the energy landscape of unfolding.
Mechanistic issues of the interaction of the hairpin-forming domain of tBid with mitochondrial cardiolipin.	The pro-apoptotic effector Bid induces mitochondrial apoptosis in synergy with Bax and Bak. In response to death receptors activation, Bid is cleaved by caspase-8 into its active form, tBid (truncated Bid), which then translocates to the mitochondria to trigger cytochrome c release and subsequent apoptosis. Accumulating evidence now indicate that the binding of tBid initiates an ordered sequences of events that prime mitochondria from the action of Bax and Bak: (1) tBid interacts with mitochondria via a specific binding to cardiolipin (CL) and immediately disturbs mitochondrial structure and function idependently of its BH3 domain; (2) Then, tBid activates through its BH3 domain Bax and/or Bak and induces their subsequent oligomerization in mitochondrial membranes. To date, the underlying mechanism responsible for targeting tBid to mitochondria and disrupting mitochondrial bioenergetics has yet be elucidated.
Automated selection of compounds with physicochemical properties to maximize bioavailability and druglikeness.	Adequate bioavailability is one of the essential properties for an orally administered drug. Lipinski and others have formulated simplified rules in which compounds that satisfy selected physiochemical properties, for example, molecular weight (MW)  500 or the logarithm of the octanol-water partition coefficient, log P(o/w) < 5, are anticipated to likely have pharmacokinetic properties appropriate for oral administration. However, these schemes do not simultaneously consider the combination of the physiochemical properties, complicating their application in a more automated fashion. To overcome this, we present a novel method to select compounds with a combination of physicochemical properties that maximize bioavailability and druglikeness based on compounds in the World Drug Index database. In the study four properties, MW, log P(o/w), number of hydrogen bond donors, and number of hydrogen acceptors, were combined into a 4-dimensional (4D) histogram, from which a scoring function was defined on the basis of a 4D dependent multivariate Gaussian model. The resulting equation allows for assigning compounds a bioavailability score, termed 4D-BA, such that chemicals with higher 4D-BA scores are more likely to have oral druglike characteristics. The descriptor is validated by applying the function to drugs previously categorized in the Biopharmaceutics Classification System, and examples of application of the descriptor are given in the context of previously published studies targeting heme oxygenase and SHP2 phosphatase. The approach is anticipated to be useful in early lead identification studies in combination with clustering methods to maximize chemical and structural diversity when selecting compounds for biological assays from large database screens. It may also be applied to prioritize synthetically feasible chemical modifications during lead compound optimization.
Genetic incorporation of a photo-crosslinkable amino acid reveals novel protein complexes with GRB2 in mammalian cells.	Cell signaling pathways are essentially organized through the distribution of various types of binding domains in signaling proteins, with each domain binding to specific target molecules. Although identification of these targets is crucial for mapping the pathways, affinity-based or copurification methods are insufficient to distinguish between direct and indirect interactions in a cellular context. In the present study, we developed another approach involving the genetic encoding of a photo-crosslinkable amino acid. p-Trifluoromethyl-diazirinyl-l-phenylalanine was thus incorporated at a defined site in the Src homology 2 (SH2) domain of the adaptor protein GRB2 in human embryonic kidney cells. These cells were exposed to 365-nm light after an epidermal growth factor stimulus, and the crosslinkable GRB2-SH2 domain exclusively formed covalent bonds with directly interacting proteins. Proteomic mass spectrometry analysis identified these direct binders of GRB2-SH2 separately from the proteins noncovalently bound to the Src homology 3 domains of GRB2. In addition to two signaling-associated proteins (GIT1 and AF6), the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins F, H1, and H2 were thus identified as novel direct binders. The results revealed a connection between the cell signaling protein and the nuclear machinery involved in mRNA processing, and demonstrated the usefulness of genetically encoded photo-crosslinkers for mapping protein-protein interactions in cells.
Roles of the SH2 and SH3 domains in the regulation of neuronal Src kinase functions.	Previous studies demonstrated that intra-domain interactions between Src family kinases (SFKs), stabilized by binding of the phosphorylated C-terminus to the SH2 domain and/or binding of the SH2 kinase linker to the SH3 domain, lock the molecules in a closed conformation, disrupt the kinase active site, and inactivate SFKs. Here we report that the up-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) induced by expression of constitutively active neuronal Src (n-Src), in which the C-terminus tyrosine is mutated to phenylalanine (n-Src/Y535F), is significantly reduced by dysfunctions of the SH2 and/or SH3 domains of the protein. Furthermore, we found that dysfunctions of SH2 and/or SH3 domains reduce auto-phosphorylation of the kinase activation loop, depress kinase activity, and decrease NMDAR phosphorylation. The SH2 domain plays a greater regulatory role than the SH3 domain. Our data also show that n-Src binds directly to the C-terminus of the NMDAR NR2A subunit in vitro, with a K(D) of 108.2  13.3 nM. This binding is not Src kinase activity-dependent, and dysfunctions of the SH2 and/or SH3 domains do not significantly affect the binding. These data indicate that the SH2 and SH3 domains may function to promote the catalytic activity of active n-Src, which is important in the regulation of NMDAR functions.
Actin filament associated protein mediates c-Src related SRE/AP-1 transcriptional activation.	AFAP is an adaptor protein involved in cytoskeletal organization and intracellular signaling. AFAP binds and activates c-Src; however, the downstream signals of this interaction remain unknown. Here we show that co-expression of AFAP and c-Src induce transcriptional activation of SRE and AP-1 in a c-Src activity dependent fashion. Structural-functional studies suggest that the proline-rich motif in the N-terminus of AFAP is critical for c-Src activation, and subsequent SRE/AP-1 transactivation and the actin-binding domain in the AFAP C-terminus is negatively involved in the regulation of AFAP/c-Src mediated SRE/AP-1 transactivation. Selective deletion of this domain enhances transactivation of SRE. We conclude that in addition to its role in the regulation of cytoskeletal structures, AFAP may also be involved in the c-Src related transcriptional activities.
Dimeric endophilin A2 stimulates assembly and GTPase activity of dynamin 2.	Endophilin, which participates in membrane vesiculation during receptor-mediated endocytosis, is a 40kDa SH3 domain-containing protein that binds to the proline/arginine-rich domain of dynamin, a 100kDa GTPase that is essential for endocytic membrane scission. It has been suggested that endophilin is monomeric in the cytoplasm and dimerizes only after it binds to membranes (or perhaps to dimers or tetramers of dynamin). To clarify this issue, we studied the oligomeric state of endophilin both invitro using analytical ultracentrifugation and fluorescence anisotropy, and in living cells using two-photon fluorescence fluctuation spectroscopy. We analyzed the fluctuation data using the Q-analysis method, which allowed us to determine the intrinsic brightness of the labeled protein complexes and hence its aggregation state in the cytoplasmic regions of the cell. Although a relatively high K(d) (5-15 M) was observed invitro, the cell measurements indicate that endophilin is dimeric in the cytoplasm, even at submicromolar concentrations. We also demonstrate that endophilin significantly enhances the assembly of dynamin, and that this enhancement is proportional to the fraction of dimeric endophilin that is present. Moreover, there is correlation between the concentrations of endophilin that promote dynamin self-assembly and those that stimulate dynamin GTPase activity. These findings support the view that endophilin-dynamin interactions play an important role in endocytosis.
A Dictyostelium SH2 adaptor protein required for correct DIF-1 signaling and pattern formation.	Dictyostelium is the only non-metazoan with functionally analyzed SH2 domains and studying them can give insights into their evolution and wider potential. LrrB has a novel domain configuration with leucine-rich repeat, 14-3-3 and SH2 protein-protein interaction modules. It is required for the correct expression of several specific genes in early development and here we characterize its role in later, multicellular development. During development in the light, slug formation in LrrB null (lrrB-) mutants is delayed relative to the parental strain, and the slugs are highly defective in phototaxis and thermotaxis. In the dark the mutant arrests development as an elongated mound, in a hitherto unreported process we term dark stalling. The developmental and phototaxis defects are cell autonomous and marker analysis shows that the pstO prestalk sub-region of the slug is aberrant in the lrrB- mutant. Expression profiling, by parallel micro-array and deep RNA sequence analyses, reveals many other alterations in prestalk-specific gene expression in lrrB- slugs, including reduced expression of the ecmB gene and elevated expression of ampA. During culmination ampA is ectopically expressed in the stalk, there is no expression of ampA and ecmB in the lower cup and the mutant fruiting bodies lack a basal disc. The basal disc cup derives from the pstB cells and this population is greatly reduced in the lrrB- mutant. This anatomical feature is a hallmark of mutants aberrant in signaling by DIF-1, the polyketide that induces prestalk and stalk cell differentiation. In a DIF-1 induction assay the lrrB- mutant is profoundly defective in ecmB activation but only marginally defective in ecmA induction. Thus the mutation partially uncouples these two inductive events. In early development LrrB interacts physically and functionally with CldA, another SH2 domain containing protein. However, the CldA null mutant does not phenocopy the lrrB- in its aberrant multicellular development or phototaxis defect, implying that the early and late functions of LrrB are affected in different ways. These observations, coupled with its domain structure, suggest that LrrB is an SH2 adaptor protein active in diverse developmental signaling pathways.
Functional analysis of Dictyostelium IBARa reveals a conserved role of the I-BAR domain in endocytosis.	I-BAR (inverse-Bin/amphiphysin/Rvs)-domain-containing proteins such as IRSp53 (insulin receptor substrate of 53 kDa) associate with outwardly curved membranes and connect them to proteins involved in actin dynamics. Research on I-BAR proteins has focussed on possible roles in filopod and lamellipod formation, but their full physiological function remains unclear. The social amoeba Dictyostelium encodes a single I-BAR/SH3 (where SH3 is Src homology 3) protein, called IBARa, along with homologues of proteins that interact with IRSp53 family proteins in mammalian cells, providing an excellent model to study its cellular function. Disruption of the gene encoding IBARa leads to a mild defect in development, but filopod and pseudopod dynamics are unaffected. Furthermore, ectopically expressed IBARa does not induce filopod formation and does not localize to filopods. Instead, IBARa associates with clathrin puncta immediately before they are endocytosed. This role is conserved: human BAIAP2L2 (brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1-associated protein 2-like 2) also tightly co-localizes with clathrin plaques, although its homologues IRSp53 and IRTKS (insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate) associate with other punctate structures. The results from the present study suggest that I-BAR-containing proteins help generate the membrane curvature required for endocytosis and implies an unexpected role for IRSp53 family proteins in vesicle trafficking.
The multiple-specificity landscape of modular peptide recognition domains.	Modular protein interaction domains form the building blocks of eukaryotic signaling pathways. Many of them, known as peptide recognition domains, mediate protein interactions by recognizing short, linear amino acid stretches on the surface of their cognate partners with high specificity. Residues in these stretches are usually assumed to contribute independently to binding, which has led to a simplified understanding of protein interactions. Conversely, we observe in large binding peptide data sets that different residue positions display highly significant correlations for many domains in three distinct families (PDZ, SH3 and WW). These correlation patterns reveal a widespread occurrence of multiple binding specificities and give novel structural insights into protein interactions. For example, we predict a new binding mode of PDZ domains and structurally rationalize it for DLG1 PDZ1. We show that multiple specificity more accurately predicts protein interactions and experimentally validate some of the predictions for the human proteins DLG1 and SCRIB. Overall, our results reveal a rich specificity landscape in peptide recognition domains, suggesting new ways of encoding specificity in protein interaction networks.
Antagonism of the Stat3-Stat3 protein dimer with salicylic acid based small molecules.	More than 50 new inhibitors of the oncogenic Stat3 protein were identified through a structure-activity relationship (SAR) study based on the previously identified inhibitor S3I-201 (IC =86M, K(i) >300M). A key structural feature of these inhibitors is a salicylic acid moiety, which, by acting as a phosphotyrosine mimetic, is believed to facilitate binding to the Stat3 SH2 domain. Several of the analogues exhibit higher potency than the lead compound in inhibiting Stat3 DNA binding activity, with an invitro IC range of 18.7-51.9 M, and disruption of Stat3-pTyr peptide interactions with K(i) values in the 15.5-41M range. One agent in particular exhibited potent inhibition of Stat3 phosphorylation in both breast and multiple myeloma tumor cells, suppressed the expression of Stat3 target genes, and induced antitumor effects in tumor cells harboring activated Stat3 protein.
Adaptor protein Nck1 interacts with p120 Ras GTPase-activating protein and regulates its activity.	Adaptor protein Nck1 binds a number of intracellular proteins and influences various signaling pathways. Here we show that Nck1 directly binds and activates the GTPase-activating protein of Ras (RasGAP), which is responsible for the down-regulation of Ras. The first and the third SH3 domains of Nck1 and the NH(2)-terminal proline-rich sequence of RasGAP contribute most to the complex formation causing direct molecular interaction between the two proteins. Cell adhesion to the substrate is obligatory for the Nck1 and RasGAP association, as cell detachment makes RasGAP incapable of associating with Nck1. This leads to the complex dissipation, decrease of RasGAP activity and the increase of H-Ras-GTP level in the detached cells. Our findings reveal unexpected feature of adaptor protein Nck1 as the regulator of RasGAP activity.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of tau regulates its interactions with Fyn SH2 domains, but not SH3 domains, altering the cellular localization of tau.	Recent reports have demonstrated that interactions between the microtubule-associated protein tau and the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Fyn play a critical role in mediating synaptic toxicity and neuronal loss in response to -amyloid (A) in models of Alzheimer's disease. Disruption of interactions between Fyn and tau may thus have the potential to protect neurons from A-induced neurotoxicity. Here, we investigated tau and Fyn interactions and the potential implications for positioning of these proteins in membrane microdomains. Tau is known to bind to Fyn via its Src-homology (SH)3 domain, an association regulated by phosphorylation of PXXP motifs in tau. Here, we show that Pro216 within the PXXP(213-216) motif in tau plays an important role in mediating the interaction of tau with Fyn-SH3. We also show that tau interacts with the SH2 domain of Fyn, and that this association, unlike that of Fyn-SH3, is influenced by Fyn-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of tau. In particular, phosphorylation of tau at Tyr18, a reported target of Fyn, is important for mediating Fyn-SH2-tau interactions. Finally, we show that tyrosine phosphorylation influences the localization of tau to detergent-resistant membrane microdomains in primary cortical neurons, and that this trafficking is Fyn-dependent. These findings may have implications for the development of novel therapeutic strategies aimed at disrupting the tau/Fyn-mediated synaptic dysfunction that occurs in response to elevated A levels in neurodegenerative disease.
Defining the substrate specificity determinants recognized by the active site of C-terminal Src kinase-homologous kinase (CHK) and identification of -synuclein as a potential CHK physiological substrate.	C-Terminal Src kinase-homologous kinase (CHK) exerts its tumor suppressor function by phosphorylating the C-terminal regulatory tyrosine of the Src-family kinases (SFKs). The phosphorylation suppresses their activity and oncogenic action. In addition to phosphorylating SFKs, CHK also performs non-SFK-related functions by phosphorylating other cellular protein substrates. To define these non-SFK-related functions of CHK, we used the "kinase substrate tracking and elucidation" method to search for its potential physiological substrates in rat brain cytosol. Our search revealed -synuclein as a potential CHK substrate, and Y127 in -synuclein as the preferential phosphorylation site. Using peptides derived from -synuclein and positional scanning combinatorial peptide library screening, we defined the optimal substrate phosphorylation sequence recognized by the CHK active site to be E-x-[/E/D]-Y--x-, where  and x represent hydrophobic residues and any residue, respectively. Besides -synuclein, cellular proteins containing motifs resembling this sequence are potential CHK substrates. Intriguingly, the CHK-optimal substrate phosphorylation sequence bears little resemblance to the C-terminal tail sequence of SFKs, indicating that interactions between the CHK active site and the local determinants near the C-terminal regulatory tyrosine of SFKs play only a minor role in governing specific phosphorylation of SFKs by CHK. Our results imply that recognition of SFKs by CHK is mainly governed by interactions between motifs located distally from the active site of CHK and determinants spatially separate from the C-terminal regulatory tyrosine in SFKs. Thus, besides assisting in the identification of potential CHK physiological substrates, our findings shed new light on how CHK recognizes SFKs and other protein substrates.
Mapping protein interactions by combining antibody affinity maturation and mass spectrometry.	Mapping protein interactions by immunoprecipitation is limited by the availability of antibodies recognizing available native epitopes within protein complexes with sufficient affinity. Here we demonstrate a scalable approach for generation of such antibodies using phage display and affinity maturation. We combined antibody variable heavy (V(H)) genes from target-specific clones (recognizing Src homology 2 (SH2) domains of LYN, VAV1, NCK1, ZAP70, PTPN11, CRK, LCK, and SHC1) with a repertoire of 10(8) to 10(9) new variable light (V(L)) genes. Improved binders were isolated by stringent selections from these new "chain-shuffled" libraries. We also developed a predictive 96-well immunocapture screen and found that only 12% of antibodies had sufficient affinity/epitope availability to capture endogenous target from lysates. Using antibodies of different affinities to the same epitope, we show that affinity improvement was a key determinant for success and identified a clear affinity threshold value (60 nM for SHC1) that must be breached for success in immunoprecipitation. By combining affinity capture using matured antibodies to SHC1 with mass spectrometry, we identified seven known binding partners and two known SHC1 phosphorylation sites in epidermal growth factor (EGF)-stimulated human breast cancer epithelial cells. These results demonstrate that antibodies capable of immunoprecipitation can be generated by chain shuffling, providing a scalable approach to mapping protein-protein interaction networks.
Importance of CH/ hydrogen bonds in recognition of the core motif in proline-recognition domains: an ab initio fragment molecular orbital study.	We examined CH/ hydrogen bonds in protein/ligand complexes involving at least one proline residue using the ab initio fragment molecular orbital (FMO) method and the program CHPI. FMO calculations were carried out at the Hartree-Fock (HF)/6-31G*, HF/6-31G**, second-order Mller-Plesset perturbation (MP2)/6-31G*, and MP2/6-31G** levels for three Src homology 3 (SH3) domains and five proline-recognition domains (PRDs) complexed with their corresponding ligand peptides. PRDs use a conserved set of aromatic residues to recognize proline-rich sequences of specific ligands. Many CH/ hydrogen bonds were identified in these complexes. CH/ hydrogen bonds occurred, in particular, in the central part of the proline-rich motifs. Our results suggest that CH/ hydrogen bonds are important in the recognition of SH3 and PRDs by their ligand peptides and play a vital role in the signal transduction system. Combined use of the FMO method and CHPI analysis is a valuable tool for the study of protein/protein and protein/ligand interactions and may be useful in rational drug design.
Computational model for protein unfolding simulation.	The protein folding problem is one of the fundamental and important questions in molecular biology. However, the all-atom molecular dynamics studies of protein folding and unfolding are still computationally expensive and severely limited by the time scale of simulation. In this paper, a simple and fast protein unfolding method is proposed based on the conformational stability analyses and structure modeling. In this method, two structure-based conditions are considered to identify the unstable regions of proteins during the unfolding processes. The protein unfolding trajectories are mimicked through iterative structure modeling according to conformational stability analyses. Two proteins, chymotrypsin inhibitor 2 (CI2) and  -spectrin SH3 domain (SH3) were simulated by this method. Their unfolding pathways are consistent with the previous molecular dynamics simulations. Furthermore, the transition states of the two proteins were identified in unfolding processes and the theoretical  values of these transition states showed significant correlations with the experimental data (the correlation coefficients are >0.8). The results indicate that this method is effective in studying protein unfolding. Moreover, we analyzed and discussed the influence of parameters on the unfolding simulation. This simple coarse-grained model may provide a general and fast approach for the mechanism studies of protein folding.
The ShcA SH2 domain engages a 14-3-3/PI3'K signaling complex and promotes breast cancer cell survival.	The ShcA adapter protein transmits activating signals downstream of receptor and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases through the establishment of phosphotyrosine-dependent complexes. In this regard, ShcA possesses both a phosphotyrosine-binding domain (PTB) and Src homology 2 domain (SH2), which bind phosphotyrosine residues in a sequence-specific manner. Although the majority of receptor tyrosine kinases expressed in breast cancer cells bind the PTB domain, very little is known regarding the biological importance of SH2-driven ShcA signaling during mammary tumorigenesis. To address this, we employed transgenic mice expressing a mutant ShcA allele harboring a non-functional SH2 domain (ShcR397K) under the transcriptional control of the endogenous ShcA promoter. Using transplantation approaches, we demonstrate that SH2-dependent ShcA signaling within the mammary epithelial compartment is essential for breast tumor outgrowth, survival and the development of lung metastases. We further show that the ShcA SH2 domain activates the AKT pathway, potentially through a novel SH2-mediated complex between ShcA, 14-3-3 and the p85 regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI3') kinase. This study is the first to demonstrate that the SH2 domain of ShcA is critical for tumor survival during mammary tumorigenesis.
Theory of the molecular transfer model for proteins with applications to the folding of the src-SH3 domain.	A theoretical basis for the molecular transfer model (MTM), which takes into account the effects of denaturants by combining experimental data and molecular models for proteins, is provided. We show that the MTM is a mean field-like model that implicitly takes into account denaturant-induced many body interactions. The MTM in conjunction with the coarse-grained self organized polymer model with side chains (SOP-SC) for polypeptide chains is used to simulate the folding of the src-SH3 domain as a function of temperature (T) and guanidine hydrochloride (GdmCl) concentration [C]. Besides reproducing the thermodynamic aspects of SH3 folding, the SOP-SC also captures the cooperativity of the folding transitions. A number of experimentally testable predictions are also made. First, we predict that the melting temperature T(m)([C]) decreases linearly as [C] increases. Second, we show that the midpoints C(m,i) and melting temperatures T(m,i) at which individual residues acquire 50% of their native contacts differ from the global midpoint (C(m)  2.5 M) and melting temperature (T(m) = 355 K) at which the folded and unfolded states coexist. Dispersion in C(m,i) is greater than that found for T(m,i). Third, folding kinetics at [C] = 0 M shows that the acquisition of contacts between all the secondary structural elements and global folding occur nearly simultaneously. Finally, from the free energy profiles as a function of the structural overlap function and the radius of gyration of the protein, we find that at a fixed T the transition state moves toward the folded state as [C] increases in accord with the Hammond postulate. In contrast, we predict that along the locus of points T(m)([C]) the location of the transition state does not change. The theory and the models used here are sufficiently general for studying the folding of other single domain proteins.
Transient structure and SH3 interaction sites in an intrinsically disordered fragment of the hepatitis C virus protein NS5A.	Understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in virus replication and particle assembly is of primary fundamental and biomedical importance. Intrinsic conformational disorder plays a prominent role in viral proteins and their interaction with other viral and host cell proteins via transiently populated structural elements. Here, we report on the results of an investigation of an intrinsically disordered 188-residue fragment of the hepatitis C virus non-structural protein 5A (NS5A), which contains a classical poly-proline Src homology 3 (SH3) binding motif, using sensitivity- and resolution-optimized multidimensional NMR methods, complemented by small-angle X-ray scattering data. Our study provides detailed atomic-resolution information on transient local and long-range structure, as well as fast time scale dynamics in this NS5A fragment. In addition, we could characterize two distinct interaction modes with the SH3 domain of Bin1 (bridging integrator protein 1), a pro-apoptotic tumor suppressor. Despite being largely disordered, the protein contains three regions that transiently adopt -helical structures, partly stabilized by long-range tertiary interactions. Two of these transient -helices form a noncanonical SH3-binding motif, which allows low-affinity SH3 binding. Our results contribute to a better understanding of the role of the NS5A protein during hepatitis C virus infection. The present work also highlights the power of NMR spectroscopy to characterize multiple binding events including short-lived transient interactions between globular and highly disordered proteins.
Suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 inhibits breast tumor kinase activation of STAT3.	Breast tumor kinase (Brk) was originally isolated from a human metastatic breast tumor, but also is found expressed in other epithelial tumors and in a subset of normal epithelia. Brk is a tyrosine kinase and its expression in breast carcinoma has been linked to tumor progression. The signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is one of the substrate targets of Brk, and elevated tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 is known to contribute to oncogenesis. Conventional activation of STAT3 occurs in response to cytokine stimulation of Janus tyrosine kinases (JAK). One of the negative regulators discovered in cytokine signaling of the JAK-STAT pathway is the suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3). In this report we describe the finding that SOCS3 can also inhibit the unconventional target, Brk. Investigation of the mechanism by which SOCS3 inhibits Brk reveals the SOCS3 protein binds to Brk primarily via its SH2 domain, and its main inhibitory effect is mediated by the SOCS3 kinase inhibitory region (KIR). SOCS3 has only a modest effect on promoting Brk degradation, and this requires the C-terminal SOCS box domain. SOCS3 is the only known inhibitor of Brk, and knowledge of the mechanisms by which SOCS3 inhibits Brk may lead to methods that block Brk in cancer progression.
The activation mechanism of ACK1 (activated Cdc42-associated tyrosine kinase 1).	ACK [activated Cdc42 (cell division cycle 42)-associated tyrosine kinase; also called TNK2 (tyrosine kinase, non-receptor, 2)] is activated in response to multiple cellular signals, including cell adhesion, growth factor receptors and heterotrimeric G-protein-coupled receptor signalling. However, the molecular mechanism underlying activation of ACK remains largely unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated that interaction of the SH3 (Src homology 3) domain with the EBD [EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor)-binding domain] in ACK1 forms an auto-inhibition of the kinase activity. Release of this auto-inhibition is a key step for activation of ACK1. Mutation of the SH3 domain caused activation of ACK1, independent of cell adhesion, suggesting that cell adhesion-mediated activation of ACK1 is through releasing the auto-inhibition. A region at the N-terminus of ACK1 (Leu10-Leu14) is essential for cell adhesion-mediated activation. In the activation of ACK1 by EGFR signalling, Grb2 (growth-factor-receptor-bound protein 2) mediates the interaction of ACK1 with EGFR through binding to the EBD and activates ACK1 by releasing the auto-inhibition. Furthermore, we found that mutation of Ser445 to proline caused constitutive activation of ACK1. Taken together, our studies have revealed a novel molecular mechanism underlying activation of ACK1.
Yeast adaptor protein, Nbp2p, is conserved regulator of fungal Ptc1p phosphatases and is involved in multiple signaling pathways.	Nbp2p is an Src homology 3 (SH3) domain-containing yeast protein that is involved in a variety of cellular processes. This small adaptor protein binds to a number of different proteins through its SH3 domain, and a region N-terminal to the SH3 domain binds to the protein phosphatase, Ptc1p. Despite its involvement in a large number of physical and genetic interactions, the only well characterized function of Nbp2p is to recruit Ptc1p to the high osmolarity glycerol pathway, which results in down-regulation of this pathway. In this study, we have discovered that Nbp2p orthologues exist in all Ascomycete and Basidiomycete fungal genomes and that all possess an SH3 domain and a conserved novel Ptc1p binding motif. The ubiquitous occurrence of these two features, which we have shown are both critical for Nbp2p function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, implies that a conserved role of Nbp2p in all of these fungal species is the targeting of Ptc1p to proteins recognized by the SH3 domain. We also show that in a manner analogous to its role in the high osmolarity glycerol pathway, Nbp2p functions in the down-regulation of the cell wall integrity pathway through SH3 domain-mediated interaction with Bck1p, a component kinase of this pathway. Based on functional studies on the Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Neurospora crassa Nbp2p orthologues and the high conservation of the Nbp2p binding site in Bck1p orthologues, this function of Nbp2p appears to be conserved across Ascomycetes. Our results also clearly imply a function for the Nbp2p-Ptc1p complex other cellular processes.
Domain organization differences explain Bcr-Abl's preference for CrkL over CrkII.	CrkL is a key signaling protein that mediates the leukemogenic activity of Bcr-Abl. CrkL is thought to adopt a structure that is similar to that of its CrkII homolog. The two proteins share high sequence identity and indistinguishable ligand binding preferences, yet they have distinct physiological roles. Here we show that the structures of CrkL and phosphorylated CrkL are markedly different than the corresponding structures of CrkII. As a result, the binding activities of the Src homology 2 and Src homology 3 domains in the two proteins are regulated in a distinct manner and to a different extent. The different structural architecture of CrkL and CrkII may account for their distinct functional roles. The data show that CrkL forms a constitutive complex with Abl, thus explaining the strong preference of Bcr-Abl for CrkL. The results also highlight how the structural organization of the modular domains in adaptor proteins can control signaling outcome.
Stoichiometry of Nck-dependent actin polymerization in living cells.	Regulation of actin dynamics through the Nck/N-WASp (neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein)/Arp2/3 pathway is essential for organogenesis, cell invasiveness, and pathogen infection. Although many of the proteins involved in this pathway are known, the detailed mechanism by which it functions remains undetermined. To examine the signaling mechanism, we used a two-pronged strategy involving computational modeling and quantitative experimentation. We developed predictions for Nck-dependent actin polymerization using the Virtual Cell software system. In addition, we used antibody-induced aggregation of membrane-targeted Nck SH3 domains to test these predictions and to determine how the number of molecules in Nck aggregates and the density of aggregates affected localized actin polymerization in living cells. Our results indicate that the density of Nck molecules in aggregates is a critical determinant of actin polymerization. Furthermore, results from both computational simulations and experimentation support a model in which the Nck/N-WASp/Arp2/3 stoichiometry is 4:2:1. These results provide new insight into activities involving localized actin polymerization, including tumor cell invasion, microbial pathogenesis, and T cell activation.
SH3 domain tyrosine phosphorylation--sites, role and evolution.	SH3 domains are eukaryotic protein domains that participate in a plethora of cellular processes including signal transduction, proliferation, and cellular movement. Several studies indicate that tyrosine phosphorylation could play a significant role in the regulation of SH3 domains.
Catalytic protein modification with dirhodium metallopeptides: specificity in designed and natural systems.	In this study, we present advances in the use of rhodium(II) metallopeptides for protein modification. Site-specific, proximity-driven modification is enabled by the unique combination of peptide-based molecular recognition and a rhodium catalyst capable of modifying a wide range of amino-acid side chains. We explore catalysis based on coiled-coil recognition in detail, providing an understanding of the determinants of specificity and culminating in the demonstration of orthogonal modification of separate proteins in cell lysate. In addition, the concepts of proximity-driven catalysis are extended to include modification of the natural Fyn SH3 domain with metallopeptides based on a known proline-rich peptide ligand. The development of orthogonal catalyst-substrate pairs for modification in lysate, and the extension of these methods to new natural protein domains, highlight the capabilities for new reaction design possible in chemical approaches to site-specific protein modification.
Structural recognition mechanisms between human Src homology domain 3 (SH3) and ALG-2-interacting protein X (Alix).	The functions of Src family kinases are tightly regulated through Src homology (SH) domain-mediated protein-protein interactions. We previously reported the biophysical characteristics of the apoptosis-linked gene 2-interacting protein X (Alix) in complex with the haemopoietic cell kinase (Hck) SH3 domain. In the current study, we have combined ITC, NMR, SAXS and molecular modeling to determine a 3D model of the complex. We demonstrate that Hck SH3 recognizes an extended linear proline-rich region of Alix. This particular binding mode enables Hck SH3 to sense a specific non-canonical residue situated in the SH3 RT-loop of the kinase. The resulting model helps clarify the mechanistic insights of Alix-Hck interaction.
Trypanosomes contain two highly different isoforms of peroxin PEX13 involved in glycosome biogenesis.	We previously identified the peroxin PEX13 in Trypanosoma brucei. Although lacking some features considered typical of PEX13s, it appeared functional in the biogenesis of glycosomes, the peroxisome-like organelles of trypanosomatids. Here we report the identification of a very different trypanosomatid PEX13, not containing the commonly encountered PEX13 SH3 domain but having other typical features. It is readily detected with the jackhmmer database search program, but not with PSI-BLAST. This is the first time different PEX13 isoforms are reported in a single organism. We show that this PEX13.2, like the PEX13.1 previously described, is associated with glycosomes and that its depletion by RNA interference affects the biogenesis of the organelles and viability of trypanosomes. The features considered typical of PEX13s are discussed.
Src family kinases mediate cytoplasmic retention of activated STAT5 in BCR-ABL-positive cells.	Persistent activation of the Abl tyrosine kinase in the BCR-ABL fusion protein is the major cause of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Among many other substrates BCR-ABL phosphorylates STAT5 and Src family kinases (SFK). Activated pSTAT5 is essential for initial transformation and maintenance of the disease. Cytokine-induced phosphorylation on tyrosine 694 typically leads to nuclear accumulation of pSTAT5 and target gene expression. We verified that in BCR-ABL-positive progenitor cells from a CML patient and in K562 cells pSTAT5 is cytoplasmic. However, upon ectopic expression of BCR-ABL p210 in non-myeloid cells, co-transfected STAT5A is phosphorylated on Y694 and localized in the nucleus arguing for an additional factor mediating cytoplasmic retention in CML cells. Expression of the SFK v-Src, Hck or Lyn together with STAT5A results in phosphorylation on Y694 and cytoplasmic retention. Upon coexpression of BCR-ABL and individual SFK the cytoplasmic retention of activated STAT5A mediated by v-Src and Hck but not Lyn is dominant over nuclear translocation induced by BCR-ABL. Cytoplasmic retention depends on the kinase activity of SFK and is mediated through the interaction of the SH2 domain of STAT5A with the SFK. Interestingly, nuclear accumulation of STAT5A as a result of activation by FLT3-ITD, an oncogene found in acute myeloid leukemia, cannot be prevented by coexpression of SFK. Importantly, inhibition of SFK in K562 cells restored nuclear accumulation of pSTAT5A, enhanced STAT5 target gene expression and increased colony formation. Thus, SFK mediate cytoplasmic retention of pSTAT5A in BCR-ABL-positive cells. Cytoplasmic pSTAT5A in CML cells might balance the controversial functions of STAT5 in cellular senescence and differentiation versus G1/S progression and survival. 
Identification of molecular switch regulating interactions of Janus kinase 3 with cytoskeletal proteins.	Janus kinase 3 (Jak3) is a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase expressed in both hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic cells. Although mutations that abrogate Jak3 functions cause different immunological disorders, its constitutive activation leads to various types of cancer. Previously, we demonstrated that Jak3 interacted with actin-binding protein villin, thereby facilitating cytoskeletal remodeling and wound repair. In this study, we characterize the structural determinants that regulate the interactions between Jak3 and cytoskeletal proteins of the villin/gelsolin family. Functional reconstitution of kinase activity by recombinant full-length (wt) Jak3 using Jak3-wt or villin/gelsolin-wt as substrate showed that Jak3 autophosphorylation was the rate-limiting step during interactions between Jak3 and cytoskeletal proteins. Determination of kinetic parameters showed that phosphorylated (P) Jak3-wt binds to P-villin-wt with a dissociation constant (K(d)) of 23 nM and a Hill's coefficient of 3.7. Pairwise binding between Jak3 mutants and P-villin-wt showed that the FERM domain of Jak3 was sufficient for binding to P-villin-wt with a K(d) of 40.0 nM. However, the SH2 domain of Jak3 prevented P-villin-wt from binding to the FERM domain of nonphosphorylated protein. We demonstrate that the intramolecular interaction between the FERM and SH2 domains of nonphosphorylated Jak3 prevented Jak3 from binding to villin and that tyrosine autophosphorylation of Jak3 at the SH2 domain decreased these intramolecular interactions and facilitated binding of the FERM domain to villin. Thus we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of interactions between Jak3 and cytoskeletal proteins where tyrosine phosphorylation of the SH2 domain acted as an intramolecular switch for the interactions between Jak3 and cytoskeletal proteins.
Solid state NMR of proteins at high MAS frequencies: symmetry-based mixing and simultaneous acquisition of chemical shift correlation spectra.	We have carried out chemical shift correlation experiments with symmetry-based mixing sequences at high MAS frequencies and examined different strategies to simultaneously acquire 3D correlation spectra that are commonly required in the structural studies of proteins. The potential of numerically optimised symmetry-based mixing sequences and the simultaneous recording of chemical shift correlation spectra such as: 3D NCAC and 3D NHH with dual receivers, 3D NC'C and 3D C'NCA with sequential (13)C acquisitions, 3D NHH and 3D NC'H with sequential (1)H acquisitions and 3D CANH and 3D C'NH with broadband (13)C-(15)N mixing are demonstrated using microcrystalline samples of the 1 immunoglobulin binding domain of protein G (GB1) and the chicken -spectrin SH3 domain.
Multiple -sheet molecular dynamics of amyloid formation from two ABl-SH3 domain peptides.	Molecular dynamics simulations in explicit water were carried out for two stacks, each composed of six 10-strand antiparallel -sheets for two peptides corresponding to the diverging turn of two homologous Abl-SH3 domains. The first system, referred to as 106MK contained the DLSFMKGE sequence from the Drosophila, while the second one, referred to as 106KK, contained the human DLSFKKGE sequence. It was found that the 106MK -sheet stack is stable, but the 106KK -sheet stack is not. The stability of the 106MK -sheet stack results from the hydrophobic interactions of the methionine and phenylalanine residues and the leucine residues of the neighboring sheets. The Met, Phe, and Leu hydrophobic units make a hydrophobic core for the stack of -sheets. During the MD run, the Met, Phe, and Leu residues of the neighboring -sheets acted as a conformational switch moving the -sheets so that the Phe residue interacted with the Met residue from the neighboring -sheet. Replacement of Met by Lys destroys the hydrophobic core, which is the stability factor of the -sheet stack. For the 106KK system, individual -sheets were preserved during simulations, but the interactions between the -sheets were lost. The calculations of a six -sheet stack confirm the conclusion drawn from our earlier studies of single -sheet systems that the -sheets must form stacks to be stabilized. These results suggest that the two conserved basic residues at the diverging turn of SH3 domains could act as gatekeepers to avoid aggregation.
Peptide microarrays to probe for competition for binding sites in a protein interaction network.	Cellular protein interaction networks are a result of the binding preferences of a particular protein and the entirety of interactors that mutually compete for binding sites. Therefore, the reconstruction of interaction networks by the accumulation of interaction networks for individual proteins will greatly overestimate connectivity within the network. Here, we addressed the impact of intracellular complexity on signalling networks using microarrays that carried a collection of peptides binding to the GRB2 SH2 and SH3 domains. Binding patterns and affinities for the recombinant adaptor protein GRB2 were compared with the ones for the protein in cell lysates. Peptide microarrays were titrated with the histidine-tagged recombinant protein, cell lysates or mixtures of both. Indeed, for recombinant GRB2, binding was detected for more peptides than for GRB2 in cell lysates. Moreover, binding was also observed for poor binders. It was impossible to define affinity thresholds for the binding of the recombinant protein to enable a discrimination of physiologically relevant interactions. Titrations of recombinant protein with lysate confirmed competition as the basis for fewer interactions. Importantly, the methods presented here enable the description of physiologically relevant binding patterns for proteins of interest and the identification of those peptide motifs, which are most strongly affected by competition.
Two-component protein hydrogels assembled using an engineered disulfide-forming protein-ligand pair.	We present the development of a two-component self-assembling protein hydrogel. The building blocks of the hydrogel are two liquid-phase protein block copolymers each containing (1) a subunit of the trimeric protein CutA as a cross-linker and (2) one member of a PDZ-domain-containing protein-ligand pair whose interaction was reinforced by an engineered disulfide linkage. Mixing of the two building blocks reconstitutes a self-assembling polypeptide unit, triggering hydrogel formation. This hydrogel exhibits extremely high solution stability at neutral and acidic pHs and in a wide range of temperatures (4-50 C). Incorporation of a "docking station peptide" binding motif into a hydrogel building block enables functionalization of the hydrogel with target proteins tagged with a "docking protein". We demonstrated the application of an enzyme-functionalized hydrogel in a direct electron transfer enzymatic biocathode. These disulfide-reinforced protein hydrogels provide a potential new material for diverse applications including industrial biocatalysis, biosynthesis, biofuels, tissue engineering, and controlled drug delivery.
NMR paves the way for atomic level descriptions of sparsely populated, transiently formed biomolecular conformers.	The importance of dynamics to biomolecular function is becoming increasingly clear. A description of the structure-function relationship must, therefore, include the role of motion, requiring a shift in paradigm from focus on a single static 3D picture to one where a given biomolecule is considered in terms of an ensemble of interconverting conformers, each with potentially diverse activities. In this Perspective, we describe how recent developments in solution NMR spectroscopy facilitate atomic resolution studies of sparsely populated, transiently formed biomolecular conformations that exchange with the native state. Examples of how this methodology is applied to protein folding and misfolding, ligand binding, and molecular recognition are provided as a means of illustrating both the power of the new techniques and the significant roles that conformationally excited protein states play in biology. 
Inhibition of CIN85-mediated invasion by a novel SH3 domain binding motif in the lysyl oxidase propeptide.	The lysyl oxidase gene inhibits Ras signaling in transformed fibroblasts and breast cancer cells. Its activity was mapped to the 162 amino acid propeptide domain (LOX-PP) of the lysyl oxidase precursor protein. LOX-PP inhibited the Her-2/Ras signaling axis in breast cancer cells, and reduced the Her-2-driven breast tumor burden in a xenograft model. Since its mechanism of action is largely unknown, co-affinity-purification/mass spectrometry was performed and the "Cbl-interacting protein of 85-kDa" (CIN85) identified as an associating protein. CIN85 is an SH3-containing adapter protein that is overexpressed in invasive breast cancers. The CIN85 SH3 domains interact with c-Cbl, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, via an unconventional PxxxPR ligand sequence, with the highest affinity displayed by the SH3-B domain. Interaction with CIN85 recruits c-Cbl to the AMAP1 complex where its ubiquitination activity is necessary for cancer cells to develop an invasive phenotype and to degrade the matrix. Direct interaction of LOX-PP with CIN85 was confirmed using co-immunoprecipitation analysis of lysates from breast cancer cells and of purified expressed proteins. CIN85 interaction with c-Cbl was reduced by LOX-PP. Domain specific CIN85 regions and deletion mutants of LOX-PP were prepared and used to map the sites of interaction to the SH3-B domain of CIN85 and to an epitope encompassing amino acids 111 to 116 of LOX-PP. Specific LOX-PP point mutant proteins P111A and R116A failed to interact with CIN85 or to compete for CIN85 binding with c-Cbl. Structural modeling identified a new atypical PxpxxRh SH3-binding motif in this region of LOX-PP. The LOX-PP interaction with CIN85 was shown to reduce the invasive phenotype of breast cancer cells, including their ability to degrade the surrounding extracellular matrix and for Matrigel outgrowth. Thus, LOX-PP interacts with CIN85 via a novel SH3-binding motif and this association reduces CIN85-promoted invasion by breast cancer cells. 
CD2-associated protein (CD2AP) enhances casitas B lineage lymphoma-3/c (Cbl-3/c)-mediated Ret isoform-specific ubiquitination and degradation via its amino-terminal Src homology 3 domains.	Ret is the receptor tyrosine kinase for the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of neuronal growth factors. Upon activation by GDNF, Ret is rapidly polyubiquitinated and degraded. This degradation process is isoform-selective, with the longer Ret51 isoform exhibiting different degradation kinetics than the shorter isoform, Ret9. In sympathetic neurons, Ret degradation is induced, at least in part, by a complex consisting of the adaptor protein CD2AP and the E3-ligase Cbl-3/c. Knockdown of Cbl-3/c using siRNA reduced the GDNF-induced ubiquitination and degradation of Ret51 in neurons and podocytes, suggesting that Cbl-3/c was a predominant E3 ligase for Ret. Coexpression of CD2AP with Cbl-3/c augmented the ubiquitination of Ret51 as compared with the expression of Cbl-3/c alone. Ret51 ubiquitination by the CD2APCbl-3/c complex required a functional ring finger and TKB domain in Cbl-3/c. The SH3 domains of CD2AP were sufficient to drive the Cbl-3/c-dependent ubiquitination of Ret51, whereas the carboxyl-terminal coiled-coil domain of CD2AP was dispensable. Interestingly, activated Ret induced the degradation of CD2AP, but not Cbl-3/c, suggesting a potential inhibitory feedback mechanism. There were only two major ubiquitination sites in Ret51, Lys(1060) and Lys(1107), and the combined mutation of these lysines almost completely eliminated both the ubiquitination and degradation of Ret51. Ret9 was not ubiquitinated by the CD2APCbl-3/c complex, suggesting that Ret9 was down-regulated by a fundamentally different mechanism. Taken together, these results suggest that only the SH3 domains of CD2AP were necessary to enhance the E3 ligase activity of Cbl-3/c toward Ret51. 
Hepatitis C virus NS5A is able to competitively displace c-Myc from the Bin1 SH3 domain in vitro.	We studied the interaction of the SH3 domain of Bin1 with a 15-mer peptide of HCV NS5A and show its potency to competitively displace a 15-mer human c-Myc fragment, which is a physiological ligand of Bin1, using NMR spectroscopy. Fluorescence spectroscopy and ITC were employed to determine the affinity of Bin1 SH3 to NS5A(347-361), yielding a submicromolar affinity to NS5A. Our study compares the binding dynamics and affinities of the relevant regions for binding of c-Myc and NS5A to Bin1 SH3. The result gives further insights into the potential role of NS5A in Bin1-mediated apoptosis.
Preparation of crystals for characterizing the Grb7 SH2 domain before and after complex formation with a bicyclic peptide antagonist.	Human growth factor receptor-bound protein 7 (Grb7) is an adapter protein involved in cell growth, migration and proliferation. It is now recognized that Grb7 is an emerging therapeutic target in specific cancer subtypes. Recently, the discovery of a bicyclic peptide inhibitor that targets the Grb7 SH2 domain, named G7-B1, was reported. In an attempt to probe the foundation of its interaction with Grb7, the crystallization and preliminary data collection of both the apo and G7-B1-bound forms of the Grb7 SH2 domain are reported here. Diffraction-quality crystals were obtained using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. After several rounds of microseeding, crystals of the apo Grb7 SH2 domain were obtained that diffracted to 1.8  resolution, while those of the G7-B1-Grb7 SH2 domain complex diffracted to 2.2 resolution. The apo Grb7 SH2 domain crystallized in the trigonal space group P63, whereas the G7-B1-Grb7 SH2 domain complex crystallized in the monoclinic space group P21. The experimental aspects of crystallization, crystal optimization and data collection and the preliminary data are reported.
P42 Ebp1 regulates the proteasomal degradation of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI3K by recruiting a chaperone-E3 ligase complex HSP70/CHIP.	The short isoform of ErbB3-binding protein 1 (Ebp1), p42, is considered to be a potent tumor suppressor in a number of human cancers, although the mechanism by which it exerts this tumor-suppressive activity is unclear. Here, we report that p42 interacts with the cSH2 domain of the p85 subunit of phosphathidyl inositol 3-kinase (PI3K), leading to inhibition of its lipid kinase activity. Importantly, we found that p42 induces protein degradation of the p85 subunit and further identified HSP70/CHIP complex as a novel E3 ligase for p85 that is responsible for p85 ubiquitination and degradation. In this process, p42 couples p85 to the HSP70/CHIP-mediated ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS), thereby promoting a reduction of p85 levels both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, the tumor-suppressing effects of p42 in cancer cells are driven by negative regulation of the p85 subunit of PI3K. 
The C-terminal SH3 domain contributes to the intramolecular inhibition of Vav family proteins.	Vav proteins are phosphorylation-dependent guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that catalyze the activation of members of the Rho family of guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases). The current regulatory model holds that the nonphosphorylated, catalytically inactive state of these GEFs is maintained by intramolecular interactions among the amino-terminal domains and the central catalytic core, which block the binding of Vav proteins to GTPases. We showed that this autoinhibition is mechanistically more complex, also involving the bivalent association of the carboxyl-terminal Src homology 3 (SH3) region of Vav with its catalytic and pleckstrin homology (PH) domains. Such interactions occurred through proline-rich region-independent mechanisms. Full release from this double-locked state required synergistic weakening effects from multiple phosphorylated tyrosine residues, thus providing an optimized system to generate gradients of Vav GEF activity depending on upstream signaling inputs. This mechanism is shared by mammalian and Drosophila melanogaster Vav proteins, suggesting that it may be a common regulatory feature for this protein family. 
Conformational recognition of an intrinsically disordered protein.	There is a growing interest in understanding the properties of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs); however, the characterization of these states remains an open challenge. IDPs appear to have functional roles that diverge from those of folded proteins and revolve around their ability to act as hubs for protein-protein interactions. To gain a better understanding of the modes of binding of IDPs, we combined statistical mechanics, calorimetry, and NMR spectroscopy to investigate the recognition and binding of a fragment from the disordered protein Gab2 by the growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2), a key interaction for normal cell signaling and cancer development. Structural ensemble refinement by NMR chemical shifts, thermodynamics measurements, and analysis of point mutations indicated that the population of preexisting bound conformations in the free-state ensemble of Gab2 is an essential determinant for recognition and binding by Grb2. A key role was found for transient polyproline II (PPII) structures and extended conformations. Our findings are likely to have very general implications for the biological behavior of IDPs in light of the evidence that a large fraction of these proteins possess a specific propensity to form PPII and to adopt conformations that are more extended than the typical random-coil states. 
The association of myosin IB with actin waves in dictyostelium requires both the plasma membrane-binding site and actin-binding region in the myosin tail.	F-actin structures and their distribution are important determinants of the dynamic shapes and functions of eukaryotic cells. Actin waves are F-actin formations that move along the ventral cell membrane driven by actin polymerization. Dictyostelium myosin IB is associated with actin waves but its role in the wave is unknown. Myosin IB is a monomeric, non-filamentous myosin with a globular head that binds to F-actin and has motor activity, and a non-helical tail comprising a basic region, a glycine-proline-glutamine-rich region and an SH3-domain. The basic region binds to acidic phospholipids in the plasma membrane through a short basic-hydrophobic site and the Gly-Pro-Gln region binds F-actin. In the current work we found that both the basic-hydrophobic site in the basic region and the Gly-Pro-Gln region of the tail are required for the association of myosin IB with actin waves. This is the first evidence that the Gly-Pro-Gln region is required for localization of myosin IB to a specific actin structure in situ. The head is not required for myosin IB association with actin waves but binding of the head to F-actin strengthens the association of myosin IB with waves and stabilizes waves. Neither the SH3-domain nor motor activity is required for association of myosin IB with actin waves. We conclude that myosin IB contributes to anchoring actin waves to the plasma membranes by binding of the basic-hydrophobic site to acidic phospholipids in the plasma membrane and binding of the Gly-Pro-Gln region to F-actin in the wave. 
Crystal structure of the SH2 domain from the adaptor protein SHC: a model for peptide binding based on X-ray and NMR data.	Src homology 2 domains (SH2) are protein molecules found within a wide variety of cytoplasmic signalling molecules that bind with high affinity to phosphotyrosyl (pY)-containing protein sequences. We report here for crystal structure of the SH2 domain from the adaptor protein SHC (Shc), which has been refined by restrained least-squares methods to an R-factor of 17.3% to 2.7 A. The overall Shc architecture is essentially similar to that determined in other SH2 domains but it shows significant differences in a number of loops, thus providing a molecular surface with no obvious secondary pocket. Based on the knowledge of the crystal structure of the protein a model for a low affinity Shc-bound peptide has been generated from nuclear magnetic resonance data in solution using transferred nuclear Overhauser enhancements as intramolecular distance restraints. The model shows that the tyrosine moiety binds Shc in a rather similar way to that observed for other SH2-peptide complexes, but that the residue in position +3 does not seem to make specific contact with the protein. An intermolecular crystallographic interaction occurs between the pY-binding site and the C-terminal residues of a symmetry-related molecule. This crystal packing interaction suggests how inhibitory regulation could play a role in SHC activity.
Interaction between focal adhesion kinase and Crk-associated tyrosine kinase substrate p130Cas.	The focal adhesion kinase (FAK) has been implicated in integrin-mediated signaling events and in the mechanism of cell transformation by the v-Src and v-Crk oncoproteins. To gain further insight into FAK signaling pathways, we used a two-hybrid screen to identify proteins that interact with mouse FAK. The screen identified two proteins that interact with FAK via their Src homology 3 (SH3) domains: a v-Crk-associated tyrosine kinase substrate (Cas), p130Cas, and a still uncharacterized protein, FIPSH3-2, which contains an SH3 domain closely related to that of p130Cas. These SH3 domains bind to the same proline-rich region of FAK (APPKPSR) encompassing residues 711-717. The mouse p130Cas amino acid sequence was deduced from cDNA clones, revealing an overall high degree of similarity to the recently reported rat sequence. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that p130Cas and FAK are associated in mouse fibroblasts. The stable interaction between p130Cas and FAK emerges as a likely key element in integrin-mediated signal transduction and further represents a direct molecular link between the v-Src and v-Crk oncoproteins. The Src family kinase Fyn, whose Src homology 2 (SH2) domain binds to the major FAK autophosphorylation site (tyrosine 397), was also identified in the two-hybrid screen.
Mutant forms of growth factor-binding protein-2 reverse BCR-ABL-induced transformation.	Growth factor-binding protein 2 (Grb2) is an adaptor protein that links tyrosine kinases to Ras. BCR-ABL is a tyrosine kinase oncoprotein that is implicated in the pathogenesis of Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1)-positive leukemias. Grb2 forms a complex with BCR-ABL and the nucleotide exchange factor Sos that leads to the activation of the Ras protooncogene. In this report we demonstrate that Grb2 mutant proteins lacking amino- or carboxyl-terminal src homology SH3 domains suppress BCR-ABL-induced Ras activation and reverse the oncogenic phenotype. The Grb2 SH3-deletion mutant proteins bind to BCR-ABL and do not impair tyrosine kinase activity. Expression of the Grb2 SH3-deletion mutant proteins in BCR-ABL-transformed Rat-1 fibroblasts and in the human Ph1-positive leukemic cell line K562 inhibits their ability to grow as foci in soft agar and form tumors in nude mice. Furthermore, expression of the Grb2 SH3-deletion mutants in K562 cells induced their differentiation. Because Ras plays an important role in signaling by receptor and nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, the use of interfering mutant Grb2 proteins may be applied to block the proliferation of other cancers that depend in part on activated tyrosine kinases for growth.
Phage display selection of ligand residues important for Src homology 3 domain binding specificity.	The Src homology 3 (SH3) domain is a 50-aa modular unit present in many cellular proteins involved in intracellular signal transduction. It functions to direct protein-protein interactions through the recognition of proline-rich motifs on associated proteins. SH3 domains are important regulatory elements that have been demonstrated to specify distinct regulatory pathways important for cell growth, migration, differentiation, and responses to the external milieu. By the use of synthetic peptides, ligands have been shown to consist of a minimum core sequence and to bind to SH3 domains in one of two pseudosymmetrical orientations, class I and class II. The class I sites have the consensus sequence ZP(L/P)PP psi P whereas the class II consensus is PP psi PPZ (where psi is a hydrophobic residue and Z is a SH3 domain-specific residue). We previously showed by M13 phage display that the Src, Fyn, Lyn, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) SH3 domains preferred the same class I-type core binding sequence, RPLPP psi P. These results failed to explain the specificity for cellular proteins displayed by SH3 domains in cells. In the current study, class I and class II core ligand sequences were displayed on the surface of bacteriophage M13 with five random residues placed either N- or C-terminal of core ligand residues. These libraries were screened for binding to the Src, Fyn, Lyn, Yes, and PI3K SH3 domains. By this approach, additional ligand residue preferences were identified that can increase the affinity of SH3 peptide ligands at least 20-fold compared with core peptides. The amino acids selected in the flanking sequences were similar for Src, Fyn, and Yes SH3 domains; however, Lyn and PI3K SH3 domains showed distinct binding specificities. These results indicate that residues that flank the core binding sequences shared by many SH3 domains are important determinants of SH3 binding affinity and selectivity.
Shc is a substrate of the rat intestinal epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase.	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has been shown to induce intestinal proliferation and maturation; however, little information is available regarding substrates of the intestinal EGF receptor tyrosine kinase. The purpose of this study was to determine if src homologous collagen-like protein (Shc) was an in vivo substrate of the intestinal EGF receptor.
Examination of the dephosphorylation reactions catalyzed by pp60c-src tyrosine kinase explores the roles of autophosphorylation and SH2 ligand binding.	pp60c-src tyrosine kinase (srcTK) catalyzes the dephosphorylation of phosphotyrosine-containing peptides, including phosphopeptides that bind with high affinity to the src SH2 domain. The mechanism for these dephosphorylation reactions was investigated. Dephosphorylation was inhibited by a competitive inhibitor for the ATP binding site. In the presence of ADP, dephosphorylation of phosphopeptide substrates is primarily due to the reversal of the kinase reaction. Autoactivated and unactivated srcTK both catalyzed the reverse of the kinase reaction; however, autoactivated srcTK displayed an increase in kcat of approximately 4-11-fold relative to unactivated srcTK, depending on the reaction conditions. Autoactivation of srcTK does not affect the Km's for MgADP or phosphopeptide (FGE)3-pY-(GEF)2GD. Unphosphorylated srcTK becomes phosphorylated during the reverse of the kinase reaction upon accumulation of free MgATP. In the presence of MgATP, srcTK also dephosphorylates peptide substrates, by first hydrolyzing MgATP to MgADP. Binding of phosphotyrosine peptide ligands to the src SH2 domain stimulated the rate of MgATP hydrolysis approximately 2-fold, but had not effect on the Km for MgATP. These data suggest that autophosphorylation of tyrosine 419 is not required for nucleotide or peptide binding, or catalysis involving small peptide substrates. In addition, these results suggest that both the forward and the reverse src tyrosine kinase reactions may be important in regulating the intracellular levels of protein tyrosine phosphorylation.
The SH2 domain of P210BCR/ABL is not required for the transformation of hematopoietic factor-dependent cells.	Src-homology region 2 (SH2) domains, by binding to tyrosine-phosphorylated sequences, mediate specific protein-protein interactions important in diverse signal transduction pathways. Previous studies have shown that activated forms of the Abl tyrosine kinase, including P210BCR/ABL of human chronic myelogenous leukemia, require the SH2 domain for the transformation of fibroblasts. To determine whether SH2 is also required for Bcr/Abl to transform hematopoietic cells, we have studied two SH2 domain mutations in P210BCR/ABL: a point mutation in the conserved FLVRES motif (P210/R1033K), which interferes with phosphotyrosine-binding by SH2, and a complete deletion of SH2 (P210/delta SH2). Despite a negative effect on intrinsic Abl kinase activity, both P210 SH2 mutants were still able to transform the hematopoietic factor-dependent cell lines Ba/F3 and FDC-P1 to growth factor independence. Unexpectedly, both mutants showed greater transforming activity than wild-type P210 in a quantitative transformation assay, probably as a consequence of increased stability of the SH2 mutant proteins in vivo. Cells transformed by both P210 SH2 mutants were leukemogenic in synaptic mice and P210/r1053K mice exhibited a distinct disease phenotype, reminiscent of that induced by v-Abl. These results demonstrate that while the Abl SH2 domain is essential for BCR/ABL transformation of fibroblasts, it is dispensable for the transformation of hematopoietic factor-dependent cell lines.
Regulation of the src homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1C by glucocorticoids in rat pancreatic AR42J cells.	The effect of glucocorticoids, known to induce inhibition of growth and differentiation of pancreatic cells, has been examined on the tyrosine phosphatase containing two src homology 2 domains, PTP1C, in rat pancreatic cancer AR42J cells. Immunoblotting analysis revealed that PTP1C protein was present in AR42J cells as two PTP1C species of 66 and 31 kilodaltons (kDa), the 31-kDa species representing a proteolytic product of the larger form. Dexamethasone increased the level of the two PTP1C species by 2 to 3 times. Nearly 80% of the PTP1C molecules were found in the particulate fraction in control cells and dexamethasone did not change the distribution of PTP1C. The increase of PTP1C protein was also detected by immunohistochemical analysis. Dexamethasone increased the tyrosine phosphatase activity of immunoprecipitated PTP1C. In addition, dexamethasone raised the level of expression of PTP1C messenger RNA in a time- and dose-dependent manner in relation with its effect on cell growth and differentiation. This effect was selective, the messenger RNA levels of the other tyrosine phosphatase containing two src homology 2 domains (SH2), PTP1D, and that of the cytosolic PTP1 being not affected. This is the first report of glucocorticoid increase of PTP1C expression, suggesting that PTP1C may be involved in the glucocorticoid-mediated pancreatic cell differentiation.
A single amino acid in the SH3 domain of Hck determines its high affinity and specificity in binding to HIV-1 Nef protein.	We have examined the differential binding of Hck and Fyn to HIV-1 Nef to elucidate the structural basis of SH3 binding affinity and specificity. Full-length Nef bound to Hck SH3 with the highest affinity reported for an SH3-mediated interaction (KD 250 nM). In contrast to Hck, affinity of the highly homologous Fyn SH3 for Nef was too weak (KD > 20 microM) to be accurately determined. We show that this distinct specificity lies in a variable loop, the 'RT loop', positioned close to conserved SH3 residues implicated in the binding of proline-rich (PxxP) motifs. A mutant Fyn SH3 with a single amino acid substitution (R96I) in its RT loop had an affinity (KD 380 nM) for Nef comparable with that of Hck SH3. Based on additional mutagenesis studies we propose that the selective recognition of Nef by Hck SH3 is determined by hydrophobic interactions involving an isoleucine residue in its RT loop. Although Nef contains a PxxP motif which is necessary for the interaction with Hck SH3, high affinity binding was only observed for intact Nef protein. The binding of a peptide containing the Nef PxxP motif showed > 300-fold weaker affinity for Hck SH3 than full-length Nef.
Human CD6 possesses a large, alternatively spliced cytoplasmic domain.	Human CD6 is a monomeric 105/130-kDa T cell surface glycoprotein that is involved in T cell activation. The apparent discrepancy between the size of the cytoplasmic domain in human (44 amino acids) and mouse (243 amino acids) CD6, led us to use reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction of human peripheral blood lymphocyte mRNA to isolate cDNA clones that include the carboxyl-terminal coding region of human CD6. The nucleotide sequence of the longest human cDNA clone, CD6-PB1, predicts a protein of 668 amino acids with a 244-amino acid cytoplasmic domain similar in size to and possessing 71.5% amino acid sequence identity with the cytoplasmic domain of mouse CD6. This previously unrecognized 244-amino acid cytoplasmic domain does not have significant homology to any other known protein (except mouse CD6), but does possess two proline-rich motifs containing the SH3 domain-binding consensus sequence, a serine-threonine-rich motif repeated three times, three protein kinase C phosphorylation-site motifs, and 10 casein kinase-2 phosphorylation-site motifs. These sequences are likely to play a role in the ability of CD6-specific monoclonal antibodies to stimulate T cell proliferation. Full-length CD6 cDNA containing this cytoplasmic domain sequence encodes a monomeric 105/130-kDa protein that can be immunoprecipitated from the surface of transfected cells and comigrates upon SDS-PAGE with wild-type CD6 immunoprecipitated from PBL. We also isolated two alternatively spliced forms of human CD6 cDNA lacking sequences encoding membrane-proximal regions of the cytoplasmic domain which maintain the same reading frame as CD6-PB1. The short cytoplasmic domain of the previously reported human CD6-15 cDNA clone results from a deletion of a 20-bp segment through use of an alternative 3' splice site, resulting in a frame shift and premature termination of translation relative to the clones we have isolated. These data demonstrate that human CD6 possesses a large cytoplasmic domain containing sequence motifs that are likely to be involved in signal transduction upon stimulation of T cells through CD6 ligation.
The role of tyrosine phosphorylation in the interaction of cellular tyrosine kinases with the T cell receptor zeta chain tyrosine-based activation motif.	Immunoglobulin receptor family tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAM) define a conserved signaling sequence, EX2YX2L/IX7YX2L/I, that mediates coupling of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) to protein tyrosine kinases (PTK). In the present study, we explored the role of phosphorylation of the two ITAM tyrosine residues in the interactions of the motif with the PTK ZAP-70 and p59fyn. The data show that the phosphorylation of a single tyrosine within the motif enables binding of p59fyn, whereas phosphorylation of both tyrosines within the motif is required for maximal binding of the PTK ZAP-70. Quantitative binding experiments show that nanomolar concentrations of the doubly phosphorylated zeta 1-ITAM are sufficient for ZAP-70 recruitment, whereas micromolar levels of singly phosphorylated ITAM are necessary for p59fyn binding. ZAP-70 binds with low efficiency to a singly phosphorylated ITAM, but shows preferential binding to the C-terminal phosphotyrosine in the ITAM, whereas p59fyn binds selectively to the N-terminal phosphotyrosine. The present data thus show that there is the potential for a singly phosphorylated ITAM to couple to cellular PTK. Moreover, the data suggest a mechanism for heterogeneity in signal transduction responses by the TCR, since ITAM could differentially couple the TCR to downstream signaling events depending on their phosphorylation state.
Specific binding of Fyn and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase to the B cell surface glycoprotein CD19 through their src homology 2 domains.	CD19 is a B cell surface protein capable of forming non-covalent molecular complexes with a number of other B cell surface proteins including the CD21/CD81/Leu-13 complex as well as with surface immunoglobulin. CD19 tyrosine phosphorylation increases after B cell activation, and is proposed to play a role in signal transduction through its cytoplasmic domain, which contains nine tyrosine residues. Several second messenger proteins have been shown to immunoprecipitate with CD19, including p59 Fyn (Fyn), p59 Lyn (Lyn) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI-3 kinase). These associations are predicted to occur via the src-homology 2 (SH2) domains of the second messenger proteins. Two of the cytoplasmic tyrosines in the CD19 cytoplasmic region contain the consensus binding sequence for the PI-3 kinase SH2 domain (YPO4-X-X-M). However, the reported consensus binding sequence for the Fyn and Lyn SH2 domains (YPO4-X-X-I/L) is not found in CD19. We investigated the capacity of CD19 cytoplasmic tyrosines to bind both Fyn and PI-3 kinase SH2-domain fusion proteins. In activated B cells, both Fyn and PI-3 kinase SH2-domain fusion proteins precipitate CD19. Using synthetic tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides comprising each of the CD19 cytoplasmic tyrosines and surrounding amino acids, we investigated the ability of the Fyn SH2 and PI-3 kinase SH2 fusion proteins to bind to the different CD19 cytoplasmic phosphotyrosine peptides. ELISA revealed that the two CD19 cytoplasmic tyrosine residues contained within the Y-X-X-M sequences (Y484 and Y515) bound preferentially to the PI-3 kinase SH2-domain fusion proteins. Two different tyrosines (Y405 and Y445) bound preferentially to the Fyn SH2-domain fusion protein via a novel sequence, Y-E-N-D/E, different from that previously reported for the Fyn SH2 domain. In precipitation studies, peptide Y484 was able to compete with tyrosine phosphorylated CD19 specifically for binding to the PI-3 kinase SH2 domain fusion proteins, while peptides Y405 and Y445 were able to compete specifically for binding to the Fyn SH2 domain fusion proteins. These results indicate that CD19 may be capable of binding both Fyn and PI-3 kinase concurrently, suggesting a mechanism for CD19 signal transduction, in which binding of PI-3 kinase to the Fyn SH3 domain results in activation of PI-3 kinase.
The catalytic activity of Src-family tyrosine kinase is required for B cell antigen receptor signaling.	The Src family protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs) are known to be important for B cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling. To study the mechanism of action of Src-PTK in BCR signaling, kinase deficient- and Src homology 2 (SH2)-mutants of Src-PTK were transfected into Lyn-deficient B cells and analyzed. Kinase activity of Src-PTK was essential for tyrosine phosphorylation of Syk and calcium mobilization upon receptor ligation, whereas these events were not affected by the mutation of SH2 domain. Receptor-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of Lyn was still observed in Syk-deficient B cells. These results demonstrate that the BCR-induced phosphorylation of Src-PTK is independent of Syk and that the kinase activity of Src-PTK is critical for BCR signaling.
Abi-2, a novel SH3-containing protein interacts with the c-Abl tyrosine kinase and modulates c-Abl transforming activity.	A protein has been identified that interacts specifically with both the Src homologous 3 (SH3) domain and carboxy-terminal sequences of the c-Abl tyrosine kinase. The cDNA encoding the Abl interactor protein (Abi-2), was isolated from a human lymphocyte library using the yeast two-hybrid system with the Abl SH3 domain as bait. Abi-2 binds to c-Abl in vitro and in vivo. Abi-2 is a novel protein that contains an SH3 domain and proline-rich sequences critical for binding to c-Abl. A basic region in the amino terminus of Abi-2 is homologous to the DNA-binding sequence of homeo-domain proteins. We show that Abi-2 is a substrate for the c-Abl tyrosine kinase. Expression of an Abi-2 mutant protein that lacks sequences required for binding to the Abl SH3 domain but retains binding to the Abl carboxyl terminus activates the transforming capacity of c-Abl. The properties of Abi-2 are consistent with a dual role as regulator and potential effector of the c-Abl protein and suggest that Abi-2 may function as a tumor suppressor in mammalian cells.
Abl-interactor-1, a novel SH3 protein binding to the carboxy-terminal portion of the Abl protein, suppresses v-abl transforming activity.	A novel cellular protein, Abl-interactor-1 (Abi-1), which specifically interacts with the carboxy-terminal region of Abl oncoproteins, has been identified in a mouse leukemia cell line. The protein exhibits sequence similarity to homeotic genes, contains several polyproline stretches, and includes a src homology 3 (SH3) domain at its very carboxyl terminus that is required for binding to Abl proteins. The abi-1 gene has been mapped to mouse chromosome 2 and is genetically closely linked to the c-abl locus. The gene is widely expressed in the mouse, with highest levels of mRNA found in the bone marrow, spleen, brain, and testes. The Abi-1 protein coimmunoprecipitates with v-Abl and serves as a substrate for kinase activity. When overexpressed in NIH-3T3 cells, abi-1 potently suppresses the transforming activity of Abelson leukemia virus expressing the full-length p160v-abl kinase but does not affect the transforming activity of viruses expressing a truncated p90v-abl or v-src kinases. We suggest that the Abi-1 protein may serve as a regulator of Abl function in transformation or in signal transduction.
A single point mutation switches the specificity of group III Src homology (SH) 2 domains to that of group I SH2 domains.	Src homology 2 (SH2) domains recognize phosphotyrosine-containing sequences, and thereby mediate the association of specific signaling proteins in response to tyrosine phosphorylation (Pawson, T., and Schlessinger, J. (1993) Curr. Biol. 3, 434-442). We have shown that specific binding of SH2 domains to tyrosine-phosphorylated sites is determined by sequences adjacent to the phosphotyrosine. Based on the phosphopeptide specificity and crystal structures, SH2 domains were classified into four different groups (Songyang, Z., Shoelson, S. E., Chaudhuri, M., Gish, G., Pawson, T., Haser, W. G., King, F., Roberts, T., Ratnofsky, S., Lechleider, R. J., Neel, B. G., R. B. B., Fajardo, J. E., Chou, M. M., Hanafusa, H., Schaffhausen, B., and Cantley, L. C. (1993) Cell 72, 767-778). The beta D5 residues of SH2 domains were predicted to be critical in distinguishing these groups (Songyang, Z., Shoelson, S. E., Chaudhuri, M., Gish, G., Pawson, T., Haser, W. G., King, F., Roberts, T., Ratnofsky, S., Lechleider, R. J., Neel, B. G., R. B. B., Fajardo, J. E., Chou, M. M., Hanafusa, H., Schaffhausen, B., and Cantley, L. C. (1993) Cell 72, 767-778; Eck, M. J., Shoelson, S. E., and Harrison, S. C. (1993) Nature 362, 87-91). We report here that replacing the aliphatic residues at the beta D5 positions of two Group III SH2 domains (phosphoinositide 3-kinase N-terminal SH2 domain and phospholipase C-gamma C-terminal SH2 domain) with Tyr (as found in Group I SH2 domains) results in a switch in phosphopeptide selectivity, consistent with the specificities of Group I SH2 domains. These results establish the importance of the beta D5 residue in determining specificities of SH2 domains.
p80/85 cortactin associates with the Src SH2 domain and colocalizes with v-Src in transformed cells.	Expression of oncogenic variants of pp60src leads to dramatic changes in cytoskeletal organization characteristic of transformation. Activated Src associates with the cytoskeletal matrix, resulting in tyrosine phosphorylation of specific cytoskeletal substrates. We have previously shown that stable association of Src with the cytoskeletal matrix is mediated by the Src SH2 domain in a phosphotyrosine-dependent interaction. In this report, we demonstrate that one of the cytoskeletal binding partners of Src is p80/85 cortactin. The association was observed in lysates of transformed cells but was not seen in normal fibroblasts. The interaction could be reconstituted in vitro using transformed cell extracts and a glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion protein containing the Src SH2 domain but not with GST-Src SH3 or with GST-Src SH2 containing a point mutation in the FLVRES sequence. Confocal microscopy revealed that cortactin redistributed and colocalized with v-Src and a Src SH3 deletion mutant in transformed cells. However, in cells expressing a Src SH2 deletion mutant, the redistribution of cortactin and colocalization with Src did not occur. Furthermore, biochemical fractionation of transformed cells indicated that a significant increase in cortactin distribution to the cytoskeletal fraction occurred, which correlated with a shift in the tyrosine-phosphorylated form of the protein. Cortactin fractionated from cells expressing kinase-defective or myristylation-defective Src mutants did not exhibit this shift. These data suggest a molecular mechanism by which tyrosine phosphorylation of cortactin and association with the Src SH2 domain influence the cytoskeletal reorganization induced in Src-transformed cells.
The K protein domain that recruits the interleukin 1-responsive K protein kinase lies adjacent to a cluster of c-Src and Vav SH3-binding sites. Implications that K protein acts as a docking platform.	The heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein particle (hnRNP) K protein interacts with multiple molecular partners including DNA, RNA, serine/threonine, and tyrosine kinases and the product of the proto-oncogene, Vav. The K protein is phosphorylated in vivo and in vitro on serine/threonine residues by an interleukin 1 (IL-1)-responsive kinase with which it forms a complex. In this study we set out to map the K protein domains that bind kinases. We demonstrate that the K protein contains a cluster of at least three SH3-binding sites (P1, PPGRGGRPMPPSRR, amino acids 265-278; P2, PRRGPPPPPPGRG, 285-297; and P3, RARNLPLPPPPPPRGG, 303-318) and that each one of these sites is capable of selectively engaging c-Src and Vav SH3 domains but not SH3 domains of Abl, p85 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, Grb-2, and Csk. We demonstrate that the K protein domain that recruits and is phosphorylated in an RNA-dependent manner by the IL-1-responsive kinase, designated KPK for K protein kinase, is contained within the 338-425-amino acid stretch and thus is contiguous but does not include the cluster of the SH3-binding sites. K protein and KPK co-immunoprecipitate from cell extracts with either c-Src or Vav, suggesting that K protein-KPK-c-Src and K protein-KPK-Vav complexes exist in vivo. Furthermore, in the context of K protein, c-Src can reactivate KPK in vitro. The succession of kinase-binding sites contained within the K protein that allow it to form multienzyme complexes and facilitate kinase cross-talk suggest that K protein may serve as a docking platform that promotes molecular interactions occurring during signal transduction.
Differential inhibition of signaling pathways by dominant-negative SH2/SH3 adapter proteins.	SH2/SH3 adapters are thought to function in signal transduction pathways by coupling inputs from tyrosine kinases to downstream effectors such as Ras. Members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family are known to be activated by a variety of mitogenic stimuli, including tyrosine kinases such as Abl and the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor. We have used activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase Erk-1 as a model system with which to examine whether various dominant-negative SH2/SH3 adapters (Grb2, Crk, and Nck) could block signaling pathways leading to Erk activation. Activation of Erk-1 by oncogenic Abl was effectively inhibited by Grb2 with mutations in either its SH2 or SH3 domain or by Crk-1 with an SH3 domain mutation. The Crk-1 SH2 mutant was less effective, while Nck SH2 and SH3 mutants had little or no effect on Erk activation. These results suggest that both Crk and Grb2 may contribute to the activation of Erk by oncogenic Abl, whereas Nck is unlikely to participate in this pathway. Next we examined whether combinations of these dominant-negative adapters could inhibit Erk activation more effectively than each mutant alone. When combinations of Crk-1 and Grb2 mutants were analyzed, the combination of the Crk-1 SH3 mutant plus the Grb2 SH3 mutant gave a striking synergistic effect. This finding suggests that in Abl-transformed cells, more than one class of tyrosine-phosphorylated sites (those that bind the Grb2 SH2 domain and those that bind the Crk SH2 domain) can lead to Ras activation. In contrast to results with Abl, Erk activation by EGF was strongly inhibited only by Grb2 mutants; Crk and Nck mutants had little or no effect. This finding suggests that Grb2 is the only adapter involved in the activation of Erk by EGF. Dominant-negative adaptors provide a novel means to identify binding interactions important in vivo for signaling in response to a variety of stimuli.
Prediction and analysis of SH2 domain-phosphopeptide interactions.	Src homology 2 (SH2) domains are small protein modules of approximately 100 amino acids that are found in many proteins involved in intracellular signal transduction. They mediate protein-protein interactions and modulate enzyme activity by their ability to bind to specific sequence patterns that contain a phosphorylated tyrosine. As the three-dimensional structures of the phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase, Lck, Src and Abl SH2 domains have been shown to be similar, we have modelled other SH2 domains that show distinct sequence specificity to allow comparative analysis of SH2-phosphopeptide interactions. The SH2 domains of PLC gamma-Nterm., Nck, Grb2, GAP and Abl have been model-built with high-affinity phosphopeptides fitted into the putative binding sites. For each SH2 domain a detailed analysis of the peptide-protein interaction was performed. It is apparent that specificity is mainly conferred by three to five residues downstream from the phosphotyrosine residue (Y*), especially, although not exclusively, peptide position Y* + 3. The SH2 pocket that binds the Y* + 3 residue is mainly composed of three sections: part of strand beta E going into loop EF, part of alpha B and loop BG. The residues that constitute the Y* + 3 binding pocket show variability that seems to determine which amino acid binds preferentially. Residue position beta E4 seems to play a vital role in the SH2 specificity. This study shows that the development of modelling protocols for SH2 domains whose structure has not been determined can prove very useful in predicting which residues are involved in conferring the affinity and binding specificity of these domains towards distinct phosphotyrosine-containing sequences.
Coordinate activation of c-Src by SH3- and SH2-binding sites on a novel p130Cas-related protein, Sin.	To understand how protein-protein interactions mediated by the Src-SH3 domain affect c-Src signaling, we screened for proteins that interact with the Src-SH3. We found a novel protein, Sin (Src interacting or signal integrating protein), that binds to Src-SH3 with high affinity, contains numerous tyrosine residues in configurations suggestive of SH2-binding sites, and is related to the v-Src substrate p130Cas. In cotransfection assays, a small fragment of Sin retaining the Src-SH3-binding site and one tyrosine-containing motif induced c-Src activation as measured by a transcriptional reporter. Phosphorylation of the peptide on tyrosine by c-Src, as a consequence of Src-SH3 binding, was necessary for its stable interaction with c-Src in vivo and for transcriptional activation. Phosphorylation of multiple tyrosine-containing motifs found on Sin correlated with c-Crk and cellular phosphoprotein binding to Sin as well as increased c-Src activity. These data suggest that (1) SH2 and SH3 ligand sites on Sin cooperatively activate the signaling potential of c-Src, (2) Sin acts as both an activator and a substrate for c-Src, and (3) phosphorylated Sin may serve as a signaling effector molecule for Src by binding to multiple cellular proteins.
Binding of zinc finger protein ZPR1 to the epidermal growth factor receptor.	ZPR1 is a zinc finger protein that binds to the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Deletion analysis demonstrated that this binding interaction is mediated by the zinc fingers of ZPR1 and subdomains X and XI of the EGFR tyrosine kinase. Treatment of mammalian cells with EGF caused decreased binding of ZPR1 to the EGFR and the accumulation of ZPR1 in the nucleus. The effect of EGF to regulate ZPR1 binding is dependent on tyrosine phosphorylation of the EGFR. ZPR1 therefore represents a prototype for a class of molecule that binds to the EGFR and is released from the receptor after activation.
Multiple features of the p59fyn src homology 4 domain define a motif for immune-receptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) binding and for plasma membrane localization.	The src family tyrosine kinase p59fyn binds to a signaling motif contained in subunits of the TCR known as the immune-receptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM). This is a specific property of p59fyn because two related src family kinases, p60src and p56lck, do not bind to ITAMs. In this study, we identify the residues of p59fyn that are required for binding to ITAMs. We previously demonstrated that the first 10 residues of p59fyn direct its association with the ITAM. Because this region of src family kinases also directs their fatty acylation and membrane association (Resh, M.D. 1993, Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1155:307-322; Resh, M.D. 1994. Cell. 76:411-413), we determined whether fatty acylation and membrane association of p59fyn correlates with its ability to bind ITAMs. Four residues (Gly2, Cys3, Lys7, and Lys9) were required for efficient binding of p59fyn to the TCR. Interestingly, the same four residues are present in p56lyn, the other src family tyrosine kinase known to bind to the ITAM, suggesting that this set of residues constitutes an ITAM recognition motif. These residues were also required for efficient fatty acylation (myristoylation at Gly2 and palmitoylation at Cys3), and plasma membrane targeting of p59fyn. Thus, the signals that direct p59fyn fatty acylation and plasma membrane targeting also direct its specific ability to bind to TCR proteins.
Differential activation of acute phase response factor/Stat3 and Stat1 via the cytoplasmic domain of the interleukin 6 signal transducer gp130. II. Src homology SH2 domains define the specificity of stat factor activation.	Distinct yet overlapping sets of STAT transcription factors are activated by different cytokines. One example is the differential activation of acute phase response factor (APRF, also called Stat3) and Stat1 by interleukin 6 and interferon-gamma. Interleukin 6 activates both factors while, at least in human cells, interferon-gamma recruits only Stat1. Stat1 activation by interferon-gamma is mediated through a cytosolic tyrosine motif, Y440, of the interferon-gamma receptor. In an accompanying paper (Gerhartz, C., Heesel, B., Sasse, J., Hemmann, U., Landgraf, C., Schneider-Mergener, J., Horn, F., Heinrich, P. C., and Graeve, L. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 12991-12998), we demonstrated that two tyrosine motifs within the cytoplasmic part of the interleukin 6 signal transducer gp130 specifically mediate APRF activation while two others can recruit both APRF and Stat1. By expressing a series of Stat1/APRF domain swap mutants in COS-7 cells, we now determined which domains of Stat1 and APRF are involved in the specific recognition of phosphotyrosine motifs. Our data demonstrate that the SH2 domain is the sole determinant of specific STAT factor recruitment. Furthermore, the SH2 domain of Stat1 is able to recognize two unrelated types of phosphotyrosine motifs, one represented by the interferon-gamma receptor Y440DKPH peptide, and the other by two gp130 YXPQ motifs. By molecular modeling, we propose three-dimensional model structures of the Stat1 and APRF SH2 domains which allow us to explain the different binding preferences of these factors and to predict amino acids crucial for specific peptide recognition.
Neoplastic transformation induced by insulin receptor substrate-1 overexpression requires an interaction with both Grb2 and Syp signaling molecules.	The insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) is the major intracellular substrate of insulin and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) receptor tyrosine kinase activity, and this protein has been found to be overexpressed in human hepatocellular carcinomas. IRS-1 contains several src homology 2 (SH2) binding motifs that interact following tyrosyl phosphorylation with SH2-containing proteins, and this interaction may be essential for transmitting the growth signal from the cell surface to the nucleus. We have previously reported that overexpression of IRS-1 may induce neoplastic transformation of NIH 3T3 cells. This study examines the role of two SH2-containing molecules, namely the Grb2 adapter and Syp tyrosine phosphatase proteins as important components of the cellular transforming activity of IRS-1. Mutations of tyrosine 897 in the YVNI motif (Y897F) and of tyrosine 1180 in the YIDL motif (Y1180F) reduced the intracellular interaction of IRS-1 with Grb2 and Syp proteins, respectively. Furthermore, a single mutation at either Phe-897 or Phe-1180 substantially but not completely reduced IGF-I-dependent transforming activity of IRS-1, whereas creation of a double mutation of both tyrosine residues (Y897F/Y1180F) strikingly attenuated the transforming activity of IRS-1. Stable expression of the IRS-1 mutant constructs in NIH 3T3 cells was associated with a lower level of activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK)/MAPK cascade following IGF-I stimulation compared with cells stably transfected with the "wild-type" IRS-1 gene. These results suggest that IRS-1-induced cellular transformation requires an interaction with both Grb2 and Syp signal transduction molecules since neither interaction alone appears to be required, and this event subsequently leads to activation of the MAPKK/MAPK cascade.
Interaction between the amino-terminal SH3 domain of CRK and its natural target proteins.	CRK is a human homolog of chichen v-Crk, which is an adaptor protein. The SH2 domain of CRK binds to several tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins, including the epidermal growth factor receptor, p130(Cas), Shc, and paxillin. The SH3 domain, in turn, binds to cytosolic proteins of 135-145, 160, 180, and 220 kDa. We screened expression libraries by Far Western blotting, using CRK SH3 as a probe, and identified partial cDNA sequences of four distinct proteins, including C3G, DOCK180, EPS15, and clone ST12. The consensus sequence of the CRK SH3 binding sites as deduced from their amino acid sequences was Pro+3-Pro+2-X+1-Leu0-Pro-1-X-2-Lys-3. The interaction of the CRK SH3 domain with the DOCK180 peptide was examined with an optical biosensor, based on the principles of surface plasmon resonance. A low dissociation constant of the order of 10(-7) resulted from a high association rate constant (kassoc = 3 x 10(4)) and low dissociation rate constant (kdiss = 3 x 10(-3)). All CRK-binding proteins except clone ST12 also bound to another adaptor protein, Grb2. Mutational analysis revealed that glycine at position +1 of ST12 inhibited the binding to Grb2 while retaining the high affinity binding to CRK SH3. The result suggests that the amino acid at position +1 also contributes to the high affinity binding of the peptides to the SH3 domain of Grb2, but not to that of CRK.
p130Cas, a substrate associated with v-Src and v-Crk, localizes to focal adhesions and binds to focal adhesion kinase.	p130(Cas) (crk associated substrate) has the structural characteristics of an adapter protein, containing multiple consensus SH2 binding sites, an SH3 domain, and a proline-rich domain. The structure of p130(Cas) suggests that it may act to provide a framework for protein-protein interactions; however, as yet, its functional role in cells is unknown. In this report we show that p130(Cas) is localized to focal adhesions. We demonstrate that p130(Cas) associates both in vitro and in vivo with pp125(FAK) (focal adhesion kinase), a kinase implicated in signaling by the integrin family of cell adhesion receptors. p130(Cas) also associates with pp41/43(FRNK) (pp125(FAK)-related, non-kinase), an autonomously expressed form of pp125(FAK) composed of only the C-terminal noncatalytic domain. We show that the association of p130(Cas) with pp125(Fak) and pp41/43(FRNK) is direct, and is mediated by the binding of the SH3 domain of p130(Cas) to a proline-rich sequence present in both the C terminus of pp125(FAK) and in pp41/43(FRNK). In agreement with recent studies we show that p130(Cas) is tyrosine-phosphorylated upon integrin mediated cell adhesion. The association of p130(Cas) with pp125(FAK), a kinase which is activated upon cell adhesion, is likely to be functionally important in integrin mediated signal transduction.
Mitogenic signaling by Ret/ptc2 requires association with enigma via a LIM domain.	The ret/ptc2 papillary thyroid cancer oncogene, an oncogenic form of the c-Ret receptor tyrosine kinase, is the product of a somatic crossover event fusing the dimerization domain of the type Ialpha regulatory subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (RI) with the tyrosine kinase domain of c-Ret. Mitogenic activity of Ret/ptc2 required dimerization via the N terminus of RI and a tyrosine residue located C-terminal to the kinase core of Ret, Tyr-586 (Durick, K., Yao, V. J., Borrello, M. G., Bongarzone, I., Pierotti, M. A. and Taylor, S. S. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 24642-24645). Using the yeast two-hybrid system, Ret/ptc2 binding proteins were identified, and the sites of interaction with Ret/ptc2 were mapped. The SH2 domains of phospholipase Cgamma and Grb10 were both identified, and binding depended on phosphorylation of Tyr-539 and Tyr-429, respectively. These interactions, however, were not required for mitogenic signaling. The second of the three LIM domains in Enigma (Wu, R. Y., and Gill, G. N. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 25085-25090) was also identified as a Ret/ptc2 binding domain. Enigma, a 455-residue protein, was discovered based on its interaction with the insulin receptor through the C-terminal LIM domain. Although the association with Enigma required Tyr-586 of Ret/ptc2, the interaction was phosphorylation-independent. In contrast to the SH2 interactions, disruption of the interaction with Enigma abolished Ret/ptc2 mitogenic signaling, suggesting that LIM domain recognition of an unphosphorylated tyrosine-based motif is required for Ret signal transduction.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of Cbl upon epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation and its association with EGF receptor and downstream signaling proteins.	We and others have shown that Cbl, the protein product of the c-cbl proto-oncogene, is an early target of tyrosine phosphorylation upon stimulation through the immune cell surface receptors, which signal through noncovalently associated cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases. Using human mammary epithelial cells that express a natural epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and require EGF as an essential growth factor, we demonstrate here that Cbl is a prominent target of tyrosine phosphorylation upon stimulation through the EGF receptor tyrosine kinase. Phosphorylation of Cbl was EGF dose-dependent, rapid (detectable as early as 5 s and maximal by 2 min), and relatively sustained (detectable even after 1 h). Co-immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that Cbl became associated with the EGF receptor in an EGF-dependent manner. Cbl was basally associated with the adaptor protein growth factor receptor-binding protein 2 (Grb2), and this interaction was further enhanced by EGF stimulation; however, the interaction was entirely mediated via the Grb2 Src homology 3 (SH3) domains, suggesting that binding of Grb2 SH2 domain to EGF receptor provides one mechanism of Cbl's association with the EGF receptor. EGF stimulation also induced the association of Cbl with Src homology and collagen (Shc) protein, p85 subunit of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and Crk proteins, in particular with the CrkL isoform. Interactions of Cbl with the EGF receptor and multiple downstream signaling proteins suggest a role for this proto-oncogene product in mitogenic signaling through growth factor receptor kinases.
Purification and characterization of human ZAP-70 protein-tyrosine kinase from a baculovirus expression system.	The ZAP-70 protein tyrosine kinase is essential for T cell antigen receptor (TCR)-mediated signaling. The absence of ZAP-70 results in impaired differentiation of T cells and a lack of responsiveness to antigenic stimulation. In order to study the characteristics of ZAP-70 in vitro, we overexpressed an epitopically tagged human ZAP-70 in a recombinant baculovirus expression system and purified it by column chromatography. The kinase activity of purified, recombinant ZAP-70 required cation and exhibited a strong preference for Mn2+ over Mg2+. The apparent Km of ZAP-70 for ATP was approximately 3.0 microM. The activity of the recombinant ZAP-70, unlike that of the homologous protein tyrosine kinase, Syk, was not affected by binding of TCR-derived tyrosine phosphorylated immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif peptides. Several proteins were tested as potential in vitro substrates of ZAP-70. Only alpha-tubulin and the cytoplasmic fragment of human erythrocyte band 3 (cfb3), which have a region of sequence identity at the phosphorylation site, proved to be good substrates, exhibiting Kmvalues of approximately 3.3 and approximately 2.5 microM, respectively ([ATP] = 50 microM). alpha- and beta-Casein were poor substrates for ZAP-70, and no activity toward enolase, myelin basic protein, calmodulin, histone proteins, or angiotensin could be detected. In contrast to the T cell protein tyrosine kinase, Lck, ZAP-70 did not phosphorylate the cytoplasmic portion of the TCRzeta chain or short peptides corresponding to the CD3epsilon or the TCRzeta immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs. Our studies suggest that ZAP-70 exhibits a high degree of substrate specificity.
Rapid identification of phosphopeptide ligands for SH2 domains. Screening of peptide libraries by fluorescence-activated bead sorting.	A method for the identification of high-affinity ligands to SH2 domains by fluorescence-activated bead sorting (FABS) was established. Recombinant SH2 domains, expressed as glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins, were incubated with a phosphotyrosine (Y*)-containing peptide library. 6.4 x 10(5) individual peptides of nine amino acids in length (EPX6Y*X19X7X19X7X6) were each displayed on beads. Phosphopeptide interaction of a given SH2 domain was monitored by binding of fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled antibodies directed against GST. High-fluorescence beads were isolated by flow cytometric sorting. Subsequent pool sequencing of the selected beads revealed a distinct pattern of phosphotyrosine-containing motifs for each individual SH2 domain: the SH2 domain of the adapter protein Grb2 predominantly selected beads with the sequence Y*ENDP, whereas the C-terminal SH2 domain of the tyrosine kinase Syk selected Y*EELD, each motif representing the most frequently found residues C-terminal to the phosphotyrosine. For deconvolution studies, soluble phosphopeptides comprising variations of the Grb2 motifs were resynthesized and analyzed by surface plasmon resonance.
The Src SH3 domain is required for DNA synthesis induced by platelet-derived growth factor and epidermal growth factor.	The Src family of protein tyrosine kinases has been implicated in the response of cells to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) or epidermal growth factor (EGF). We recently described a microinjection approach that we used to demonstrate that kinase activity of Src family members is required for PDGF- and EGF-induced S-phase entry of fibroblasts. We have now used this approach to ask whether a functional SH3 domain of Src is required to transduce the mitogenic signal upon PDGF or EGF stimulation. Microinjection of plasmids encoding Src mutants lacking the SH3 domain (SrcDeltaSH3) or point-mutated within the ligand binding surface of the SH3 domain, but with intact kinase domains, inhibited the mitogenic effect of PDGF and EGF in fibroblasts. SrcDeltaSH3 could still associate with the PDGF receptor, suggesting that the inhibitory effect of the Src SH3 mutants was brought about by a failure of the PDGF receptor.SrcDeltaSH3 complex to relay the mitogenic signal further downstream. Chimeric molecules in which the Src SH3 domain was replaced with that of spectrin or Lck also blocked PDGF-induced DNA synthesis, whereas a chimera containing the Fyn SH3 domain did not. These data suggest that the Src or Fyn SH3 domain is required either for correct substrate selection or to recruit other proteins to the PDGF receptor.
Requirement for c-Src catalytic activity and the SH3 domain in platelet-derived growth factor BB and epidermal growth factor mitogenic signaling.	The Src family protein-tyrosine kinases are required for mitogenic signaling from the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), colony stimulating factor-1, and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor protein-tyrosine kinases (RPTK) (Twamley-Stein, G. M., Pepperkok, R., Ansorge, W., and Courtneidge, S. A. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 90, 7696-7700; Roche, S., Koegl, M., Barone, M. V., Roussel, M. F., and Courtneidge, S. A.(1995) Mol. Cell. Biol. 15, 1102-1109). In NIH3T3 fibroblasts, c-Src, Fyn, and c-Yes associate with the activated PDGF receptor, are substrates for receptor phosphorylation, and are themselves activated. Src family catalytic function is required for RPTK mitogenic signaling as evidenced by the SH2-dependent dominant negative phenotype exhibited by kinase-inactive Src and Fyn mutants (Twamley-Stein, G. M., Pepperkok, R., Ansorge, W., and Courtneidge, S. A.(1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 90, 7696-7700). Here, we have generated clonal Src- murine fibroblast cell lines overexpressing various murine c-Src mutants and studied the effect of these mutant Src proteins on PDGF- and EGF-induced mitogenesis. Two c-Src SH3 domain mutants, Y133F and Y138F, each inhibited PDGF BB- and EGF-induced DNA synthesis in quiescent cells. This demonstrates an involvement of the Src SH3 domain in PDGFbeta and EGF receptor mitogenic signaling. Since both Tyr-133 and Tyr-138 are located on the ligand binding surface of the SH3 domain, these results suggest that the c-Src SH3 domain is required for PDGF and EGF mitogenic signaling. The dominant negative effect of either single mutant on PDGF receptor signaling was reversed by a second SH2-inactivating mutation. We conclude that the c-Src SH3 domain function requires the SH2 domain in the case of the PDGF receptor, presumably because binding of c-Src to the receptor via its SH2 domain is a prerequisite for the SH3 domain function. In contrast, SH2 function is apparently not essential for the SH3 function in EGF receptor signaling.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of the Fc receptor gamma-chain in collagen-stimulated platelets.	Stimulation of platelets by the extracellular matrix protein collagen leads to activation of a tyrosine kinase-dependent mechanism resulting in secretion and aggregation. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the tyrosine kinase Syk and phospholipase Cgamma2 are early events in collagen-induced activation. We recently proposed that collagen-signaling in platelets involves a receptor or a receptor-associated protein containing an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) enabling interaction with Syk. In this report we show that collagen stimulation of platelets causes rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of the ITAM containing Fc receptor gamma-chain and that this is precipitated by the tandem Src homology 2 (SH2) domains of Syk expressed as a fusion protein. In addition we demonstrate an association between the Fc receptor gamma-chain with endogenous Syk in collagen-stimulated platelets. The Fc receptor gamma-chain undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation in platelets stimulated by a collagen-related peptide which does not bind the integrin alpha2beta1 and by the lectin wheat germ agglutinin. In contrast, cross-linking of the platelet low affinity receptor for immune complexes, FcgammaRIIA, or stimulation by thrombin does not induce phosphorylation of the Fc receptor gamma-chain. The present results provide a molecular basis for collagen activation of platelets which is independent of the integrin alpha2beta1 and involves phosphorylation of the Fc receptor gamma-chain, its association with Syk and subsequent phosphorylation of phospholipase Cgamma2. Collagen is the first example of a nonimmune receptor stimulus to signal through a pathway closely related to signaling by immune receptors.
The SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase PTP1D is required for interferon alpha/beta-induced gene expression.	Interferons (IFNs) induce early response genes by stimulating Janus family (Jak) tyrosine kinases, leading to tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat (signal transducer and activator of transcription) proteins. Previous studies demonstrated that a protein-tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) is required for activation of the ISGF3 transcription complex by IFNalpha/beta, but the specific PTP responsible remained unidentified. We now show that the SH2 domain containing tyrosine phosphatase PTP1D (also designated as SHPTP2, SHPTP3, PTP2C, or Syp) is constitutively associated with the IFNalpha/beta receptor and becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to ligand. Furthermore, transient expression of a phosphatase-inactive mutant or the COOH-terminal SH2 domain of PTP1D causes a dominant negative effect on IFNalpha/beta-induced early response gene expression. These results provide strong evidence that PTP1D functions as a positive regulator of the IFNalpha/beta-induced Jak/Stat signal transduction pathway.
Regulation of colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor signaling by the SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase SHPTP1.	SHPTP1 (PTP1C, HCP, SHP) is an SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase expressed predominantly in hematopoietic cells. A frameshift mutation in the SHPTP1 gene causes the motheaten (me/me) mouse. These mice are essentially SHPTP1 null and display multiple hematopoietic abnormalities, most prominently hyperproliferation and inappropriate activation of granulocytes and macrophages. The me/me phenotype suggests that SHPTP1 negatively regulates macrophage proliferative pathways. Using primary bone marrow-derived macrophages from me/me mice and normal littermates, we examined the role of SHPTP1 in regulating signaling by the major macrophage mitogen colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF-1) (also known as macrophage colony-stimulating factor). Macrophages from me/me mice hyperproliferate in response to CSF-1. In the absence of SHPTP1, the CSF-1 receptor (CSF-1R) is hyperphosphorylated upon CSF-1 stimulation, suggesting that SHPTP1 dephosphorylates the CSF-1R. At least some CSF-1R-associated proteins also are hyperactivated. SHPTP1 is associated constitutively, via its SH2 domains, with an unidentified 130-kDa phosphotyrosyl protein (P130). P130 and SHPTP1 are further tyrosyl phosphorylated upon CSF-1 stimulation. Tyrosyl-phosphorylated SHPTP1 binds to Grb2 via the Grb2 SH2 domain. Moreover, in me/me macrophages, Grb2 is associated, via its SH3 domains, with several tyrosyl phosphoproteins. These proteins are hyperphosphorylated on tyrosyl residues in me/me macrophages, suggesting that Grb2 may recruit substrates for SHPTP1. Our results indicate that SHPTP1 is a critical negative regulator of CSF-1 signaling in vivo and suggest a potential new function for Grb2.
The p53-binding protein 53BP2 also interacts with Bc12 and impedes cell cycle progression at G2/M.	Using the yeast two-hybrid system, we have isolated a cDNA (designated BBP, for Bcl2-binding protein) for a protein (Bbp) that interacts with Bcl2. Bbp is identical to 53BP2, a partial clone of which was previously isolated in a two-hybrid screen for proteins that interact with p53. In this study, we show that specific interactions of Bbp/53BP2 with either Bcl2 or p53 require its ankyrin repeats and SH3 domain. These interactions can be reproduced in vitro with bacterially expressed fusion proteins, and competition experiments indicate that Bcl2 prevents p53 from binding to Bbp/53BP2. BBP/53BP2 mRNA is abundant in most cell lines examined, but the protein cannot be stably expressed in a variety of cell types by transfection. In transiently transfected cells, Bbp partially colocalizes with Bcl2 in the cytoplasm and results in an increased number of cells at G2/M, possibly accounting for the inability to obtain stable transfectants expressing the protein. These results demonstrate that a single protein can interact with either Bcl2 or p53 both in yeast cells and in vitro. The in vivo significance of these interactions and their potential consequences for cell cycle progression and cell death remain to be determined.
Regulation, substrates and functions of src.	Src is the best understood member of a family of 9 tyrosine kinases that regulates cellular responses to extracellular stimuli. Activated mutants of Src are oncogenic. Using Src as an example, and referring to other Src family members where appropriate, this review describes the structure of Src, the functions of the individual domains, the regulation of Src kinase activity in the cell, the selection of substrates, and the biological functions of Src. The review concentrates on developments in the last 6-7 years, and cites data resulting from the isolation and characterization of Src mutants, crystallographic studies of the structures of SH2, SH3 and tyrosine kinase domains, biochemical studies of Src kinase activity and binding properties, and the biology of transgenic and knockout mouse strains.
Topological organization of the cytosolic activating complex of the superoxide-generating NADPH-oxidase. Pinpointing the sites of interaction between p47phoz, p67phox and p40phox using the two-hybrid system.	Activation of the superoxide-generating NADPH-oxidase in phagocytic cells requires the assembly of a membrane-bound flavocytochrome b and cytosolic factors p47phox and p67phox under the control of the GTP-binding protein, Rac. A novel cytosolic component p40phox was recently identified. Most of the components of the complex contain SH3 domains and/or polyproline motifs which are likely to mediate protein-protein interactions occurring in the formation of the active NADPH-complex. The two-hybrid system was used to explore associations between the cytosolic factors. Various constructs of p47phox, p67phox and p40phox cDNAs coding for functional domains were inserted into two-hybrid system vectors, expressing fusion proteins either with the DNA binding protein Lex A or with the activation domain of Gal 4. The site of interaction of p67phox with p47phox was restricted to the C-terminal SH3 domain of p67phox and to the polyproline motif of p47phox. The polyproline motif of p47phox was also found to mediate interaction with the SH3 domain of p40phox, as well as intramolecular interaction within p47phox. The site of interation of p67phox with p40phox was found to be in the 150 amino acid stretch between the two SH3 domains of p67phox. As the C-terminal tail of p40phox which interacts with p67phox contains neither a SH3 domain nor a polyproline consensus site, it is concluded that a novel type of interaction occurs between p40phox and p67phox. Taken together, the results of the two-hybrid experiments led us to formulate a model for oxidase activation, induced by phosphorylation, in which p40phox tends to prevent spontaneous activation.
Crystal structure of the conserved core of HIV-1 Nef complexed with a Src family SH3 domain.	The crystal structure of the conserved core of HIV-1 Nef has been determined in complex with the SH3 domain of a mutant Fyn tyrosine kinase (a single amino acid substitution, Arg-96 to isoleucine), to which Nef binds tightly. The conserved PxxP sequence motif of Nef, known to be important for optimal viral replication, is part of a polyproline type II helix that engages the SH3 domain in a manner resembling closely the interaction of isolated peptides with SH3 domains. The Nef-SH3 structure also reveals how high affinity and specificity in the SH3 interaction is achieved by the presentation of the PxxP motif within the context of the folded structure of Nef.
Interaction of Ash/Grb-2 via its SH3 domains with neuron-specific p150 and p65.	We found that 180 kDa, 150 kDa (p150), 110 kDa, 100 kDa and 65 kDa (p65) proteins comprise the major Ash/Grb-2-binding proteins in bovine brain. Among these proteins, 180 kDa and 100 kDa proteins have already been identified as Sos and dynamin respectively. Here, p150 and p65 were affinity-purified with glutathione S-transferase-Ash fusion protein and their partial amino acid sequences were determined. Analysis showed p150 and p65 to be new proteins. These two proteins bind to both the N-terminal SH3 domain and the C-terminal SH3 domain of Ash. It was found that p150 and p65 are expressed predominantly in brain, although Ash is widely distributed in all tissues examined by Western blots. Immunohistochemical staining of rat brain showed p150 and p65 to be localized in a variety of neurons in the cerebellum and hippocampus, with p65 being especially concentrated in the nerve terminal. When the Ash-binding-motif peptide of the epidermal growth factor receptor was used to detect complexes formed with Ash in vivo, 180 kDa, 150 kDa, 110 kDa, 100 kDa and 65 kDa proteins were also bound; this shows that these proteins form complexes with Ash in brain. In addition, p150 and p65 co-immunoprecipitated with Ash. All these results suggest that Ash may function as a regulator of synaptic vesicle transport through dynamin, p150 and p65.
Activation of Raf-mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in normal human keratinocytes.	The biologic effects of the vitamin D hormone 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) are believed to be mediated by an intracellular vitamin D receptor, which after ligand binding acts as a transcription factor modulating expression of a variety of genes. Besides having a well-known role in calcium metabolism, this hormone is an important regulator of proliferation in a majority of normal and neoplastic cells. Keratinocytes provide a convenient model for investigating the growth-related effects of vitamin D in normal cells. Growth of keratinocytes may be either stimulated or inhibited by 1,25(OH)2D3, depending on the degree of cell differentiation. We show here that 1,25(OH)2D3 stimulates DNA synthesis via sequential activation of Raf and the mitogen-activated protein kinase. Activation of these kinases is independent on protein and mRNA synthesis and is preceded by rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of an adaptor protein p66 (Shc) and formation of a complex between p66 Shc, a bridging molecule Grb2, and a Ras activator, mSos. Vitamin D receptor protein associates with Shc, indicating that this steroid hormone is able to signal through the transcription-independent pathways similar to those used by peptide hormones and cytokines.
Improved 3D gd-HCACO and gd-(H)CACO-TOCSY experiments for isotopically enriched proteins dissolved in H2O.	Pulsed field gradients were incorporated into the HCACO experiment for acquiring spectra on isotopically enriched protein samples dissolved in H2O. Excellent water suppression and spectral quality were achieved using the modified pulse sequence (gd-HCACO), as demonstrated for a 13C-/15N-labeled sample of the SH2 domain from the hematopoietic cellular kinase dissolved in 90% H2O/10% D2O. Strong correlations for all residues were observed in the gd-HCACO spectrum, even for residues having alpha-protons resonating exactly at the H2O frequency. The HCACO-TOCSY experiment was modified to correlate intraresidue 13C alpha (rather than 1H alpha), carbonyl (13C'), and aliphatic side-chain protons [(H)CACO-TOCSY]. Pulsed field gradients were also incorporated into the (H)CACO-TOCSY experiment for water suppression.
The B-cell transmembrane protein CD72 binds to and is an in vivo substrate of the protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1.	Signals from the B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) help to determine B-cell fate, directing either proliferation, differentiation, or growth arrest/apoptosis. The protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1 is known to regulate the strength of BCR signaling. Although the B-cell co-receptor CD22 binds SHP-1, B cells in CD22-deficient mice are much less severely affected than those in SHP-1-deficient mice, suggesting that SHP-1 may also regulate B-cell signaling by affecting other signaling molecules. Moreover, direct substrates of SHP-1 have not been identified in any B-cell signaling pathway.
The protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1 regulates integrin-mediated adhesion of macrophages.	The Src homology 2 domain phosphatase-1 (SHP-1) is a tyrosine phosphatase containing two amino-terminal SH2 domains and is expressed primarily by hematopoietic-derived cells [1]. The viable motheaten (Hcphme-v) mutant mice (mev) suffer from progressive inflammation due to a deficiency of SHP-1 enzyme activity [2,3] and die at 3-4 months of age from macrophage and neutrophil accumulation in the lung [4]. The mechanism by which SHP-1 deficiency leads to inflammation is unknown. We found that macrophages from mev mice adhered and spread to a greater extent than normal macrophages through alpha m beta 2 integrin-mediated contacts. Whereas macrophages deficient in the transmembrane tyrosine phosphatase CD45 (CD45-/-) spontaneously detached from alpha m beta 2 integrin contacts [5], cells deficient in both CD45 and SHP-1 did not. In SHP-1 deficient macrophages there was a 10-15-fold increase in D-3 phospholipid products of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase. Concomitantly, there was a 2-5-fold increase in membrane-associated PI 3-kinase activity in mev macrophages relative to normal macrophages. Treatment of macrophages with the PI 3-kinase inhibitors wortmannin or LY294002 resulted in a dramatic detachment of cells, indicating that PI 3-kinase activity is required for adhesion. These data demonstrate that SHP-1 is necessary for detachment from alpha m beta 2 integrin-mediated contacts in primary macrophages and suggest that a defect in this pathway may contribute to inflammatory disease.
The role of tyrosine phosphorylation of cortactin in the locomotion of endothelial cells.	Cortactin, a filamentous actin cross-linking protein and a substrate of Src protein tyrosine kinase, is phosphorylated at tyrosine residues upon stimulation by extracellular signals. We have previously demonstrated that the filamentous actin cross-linking activity of cortactin is attenuated by Src (Huang, C., Ni, Y., Gao, Y., Haudenschild, C. C., and Zhan, X. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 13911-13915). In vitro, tyrosine phosphorylation of cortactin occurs specifically within the region between the proline-rich sequence and the Src homology 3 domain. Among the nine tyrosine residues in this region, mutations at Tyr421, Tyr466, and Tyr482 significantly reduced Src-meditated tyrosine phosphorylation both in vitro and in vivo. Ectopic expression of wild-type cortactin in ECV304, a spontaneously transformed human umbilical endothelial cell line, resulted in an enhanced cell migration. In contrast, overexpression of a cortactin mutant deficient in tyrosine phosphorylation impaired the migration of endothelial cells. These findings reveal an intracellular signaling mechanism whereby the motility of endothelial cells is regulated by a Src-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of cortactin.
Combination of gene targeting and substrate trapping to identify substrates of protein tyrosine phosphatases using PTP-PEST as a model.	Identification of physiological substrates of protein tyrosine phosphatases is a key step in understanding the function of these enzymes. We have generated fibroblast cell lines having a gene-targeted PTP-PEST in order to identify potential substrates with the premise that specific substrates of this enzyme would exist in a hyperphosphorylated state. Analysis of the profile of the phosphotyrosine proteins in the PTP-PEST -/- cells revealed the presence of hyperphosphorylated proteins of 180, 130, and 97 kDa when compared to control cells. The p130 was identified as p130(Cas), and direct immunoprecipitates of p130(Cas) demonstrate that this protein is constitutively hyperphosphorylated in cells lacking PTP-PEST. In addition, p130(Cas) was also isolated by the substrate-trapping mutant of PTP-PEST in the PTP-PEST -/- cell lysates. Interestingly, we have demonstrated for the first time that PTP-PEST, through its first proline-rich sequence 332PPKPPR337, interacts with other members of the p130(Cas) family (Hef1 and Sin) via their SH3 domain in vitro. This result suggests that Hef1 and Sin could also be potential substrates of PTP-PEST. In conclusion, we have combined genetic and biochemical strategies to allow the identification of PTP-PEST substrates. This experimental approach could potentially be used to identify substrates of other PTPases. Furthermore, the Cas-like molecules Hef1 and Sin associate via their SH3 domains with a proline-rich motif found on PTP-PEST, suggesting the possibility that PTP-PEST could be a general modulator of the Cas family of proteins.
LCK-phosphorylated human killer cell-inhibitory receptors recruit and activate phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.	HLA-specific killer cell inhibitory receptors (KIR) are thought to impede natural killer (NK) and T cell activation programs through recruitment of the SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatases, SHP-1 and SHP-2, to their cytoplasmic tails (CYT). To identify other SH2 domain-containing proteins that bind KIR CYT, we used the recently described yeast two-bait interaction trap and a modified version of this system, both of which permit tyrosine phosphorylation of bait proteins. Using these systems, we show that KIR CYT, once phosphorylated by the src-family tyrosine kinase LCK, additionally bind the p85alpha regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase. Furthermore, we show that in an NK cell line, NK3.3, cross-linking of KIR results in recruitment of p85alpha to KIR and activation of PI 3-kinase lipid kinase activity. One consequence of KIR coupling to PI 3-kinase is downstream activation of the antiapoptotic protein kinase AKT. Therefore, in addition to providing negative signals, KIR may also contribute positive signals for NK and T cell growth and/or survival.
Some NMR experiments and a structure determination employing a [15N,2H] enriched protein.	We present the results of studies of an aqueous sample of a highly [15N,2H] enriched protein, the SH3 domain from Fyn. Measurements of 1H relaxation and interactions between H2O solvent and exchangeable protons are given, as well as a method for increasing the effective longitudinal relaxation of solvent exchangeable proton resonances. The long-range isotope shifts are measured, for 1H and 15N, which arise due to perdeuteration. Simulations, which employed a 7 or 8 spin relaxation matrix analysis, were compared to the experimental data from a time series of 2D NOESY datasets for some resonances. The agreement between experiment and simulation suggest that, with this 1H dilute sample, relatively long mixing times (up to 1.2 s) can be used to detect specific dipolar interactions between amide protons up to about 7A apart. A set of 155 inter-amide NOEs and 7 side chain NOEs were thus identified in a series of 3D HSQC-NOESY-HSQC experiments. These data, alone and in combination with previously collected restraints, were used to calculate sets of structures using X-PLOR. These results are compared to the available X-ray and NMR structures of the Fyn SH3 domain.
c-Src and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase are involved in NGF-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc in PC12 cells.	The adaptor protein Shc exists in three isoforms; p46, p52, and p66, and is a key regulator of a variety of biological processes. Our previous studies have shown that the tyrosine kinase c-Src phosphorylates Shc in a phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) 4,5-bisphosphate-dependent manner. Here we demonstrate that PtdIns 3,4,5-trisphosphate stimulates phosphorylation of Shc by c-Src. The phosphorylation is blocked by a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein containing Shc phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain or a phosphotyrosine-containing Shc PTB domain-binding peptide. In rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC12, nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates tyrosine phosphorylation of both Triton-soluble and -insoluble Shc which was maximal at 2-5 min after NGF treatment. We find that pretreatment of PC12 cells with the PtdIns 3-kinase inhibitor wortmannin or LY294002 results in almost half inhibition of the NGF-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of only Triton-insoluble Shc. Similar inhibitory effect is observed with tyrosine kinase inhibitors genistein and PP1. Upon NGF stimulation, c-Src also becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated and accumulates in the Triton-insoluble fraction. The c-Src events are insensitive to wortmannin but sensitive to genistein. These results suggest that coordinate action of PtdIns 3-kinase and/or PtdIns 3,4,5-trisphosphate and c-Src can function as positive regulator in tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc in vitro and in vivo.
Mass spectrometric and thermodynamic studies reveal the role of water molecules in complexes formed between SH2 domains and tyrosyl phosphopeptides.	SH2 domains have a fundamental role in signal transduction. These domains interact with proteins containing phosphorylated tyrosine residues and, in doing so, mediate the interactions of proteins involved in tyrosine kinase signalling. The issue of specificity in SH2 domain interactions is therefore of great interest in terms of understanding tyrosine kinase signal-transduction pathways and in the discovery of drugs to inhibit them. Water molecules are found at the interfaces of many complexes, however, to date little attention has been paid to their role in dictating specificity.
The c-Fes family of protein-tyrosine kinases.	The human c-fes protooncogene encodes a protein-tyrosine kinase (c-Fes) distinct from c-Src, c-Abl and other nonreceptor tyrosine kinases. Although originally identified as the cellular homolog of several transforming retroviral oncoproteins, Fes was later found to exhibit strong expression in myeloid hematopoietic cells and to play a direct role in their differentiation. Recent work has shown that Fes exhibits a more widespread expression pattern in both developing and adult tissues, suggesting a general physiological function for this kinase and its closely related homolog, Fer. This review highlights the unique aspects of Fes structure, regulation, and function that set it apart from other tyrosine kinase families.
Src kinase and PI 3-kinase as a transduction pathway in ceramide-induced contraction of colonic smooth muscle.	Ceramide mediates sustained contraction of smooth muscle cells. C2 ceramide induced a rapid increase in Src kinase activity within 15 s, peaked at 1 min, and was sustained up to 8 min. Contraction and Src kinase activity were inhibited in cells incubated in Ca2+-free medium containing 2 mM EGTA and in cells preincubated with herbimycin A, a Src kinase inhibitor. Immunoblotting using a phosphospecific anti-Src (416Y) antibody showed a ceramide-induced increase in pp60(src) tyrosine phosphorylation. Immunoprecipitation using an anti-phosphotyrosine antibody followed by Western immunoblotting using a monoclonal IgG anti-phosphoinositide 3-kinase NH2 terminal-SH2 domain antibody showed a ceramide-induced increase in phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) tyrosine phosphorylation at a protein mass corresponding to 85 kDa, the regulatory subunit of PI 3-kinase, which contains the Src kinase binding site. PI 3-kinase phosphorylation was inhibited by herbimycin A and by the PI 3-kinase inhibitors wortmannin and LY-294002. Preincubation of cells with herbimycin A or PI 3-kinase inhibitors also resulted in an inhibition of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase p42 and p44 activities as seen on Western blots. In summary, we found that 1) the maintenance of sustained contraction is dependent on extracellular Ca2+; 2) ceramide activates a nonreceptor tyrosine kinase pathway through activation of pp60(src) and PI 3-kinase; and 3) the converging signals are probably through activation of MAP kinase.
Tyrosine kinases of the Src family, enzymes with multiple functions: from the growth of fibroblasts to the migration of epithelial cells]	The tyrosine kinases of the Src family were first discovered due to their oncogenic properties. In untransformed fibroblasts, these kinases are activated as cells exists quiescence in response to some growth factors. Using microinjection to introduce catalytically inactive dominant-negative form of cSrc, as well as an antibody that neutralizes cSrc, Fyn and cYes, we have shown that Src kinases are required for DNA synthesis induced by most growth factors (PDGF, EGF, CSF-1, insulin, IGF-1). A functional link between Src kinases and the expression of the transcription factor c-Myc was also shown. In addition to cell growth promotion, some factors induce epithelial cell scattering and this also requires cSrc and cYes activities. However, in contrast to mitogenesis, they do not need novel gene expression for signalling but rather may act by phosphorylating components that regulate the cytoskeleton. Finally, increased Src kinase activities were found in several human carcinomas and we propose that these enzymes are involved in cell invasion.
Prediction and structural characterization of an independently folding substructure in the src SH3 domain.	Previous studies of the conformations of peptides spanning the length of the alpha-spectrin SH3 domain suggested that SH3 domains lack independently folding substructures. Using a local structure prediction method based on the I-sites library of sequence-structure motifs, we identified a seven residue peptide in the src SH3 domain predicted to adopt a native-like structure, a type II beta-turn bridging unpaired beta-strands, that was not contained intact in any of the SH3 domain peptides studied earlier. NMR characterization confirmed that the isolated peptide, FKKGERL, adopts a structure similar to that adopted in the native protein: the NOE and 3JNHalpha coupling constant patterns were indicative of a type II beta-turn, and NOEs between the Phe and the Leu side-chains suggest that they are juxtaposed as in the prediction and the native structure. These results support the idea that high-confidence I-sites predictions identify protein segments that are likely to form native-like structures early in folding.
Phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase associates with an insulin receptor substrate-1 serine kinase distinct from its intrinsic serine kinase.	Serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) has been proposed as a counter-regulatory mechanism in insulin and cytokine signalling. Here we report that IRS-1 is phosphorylated by a wortmannin insensitive phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI 3-kinase)-associated serine kinase (PAS kinase) distinct from PI 3-kinase serine kinase. We found that PI 3-kinase immune complexes contain 5-fold more wortmannin-insensitive serine kinase activity than SH2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-2 (SHP2) and IRS-1 immune complexes. Affinity chromatography of cell lysates with a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein for the p85 subunit of PI 3-kinase showed that PAS kinase associated with the p85 subunit of PI 3-kinase. This interaction required unoccupied SH2 domain(s) but did not require the PI 3-kinase p110 subunit binding domain. In terms of function, PAS kinase phosphorylated IRS-1 and, after insulin stimulation, PAS kinase phosphorylated IRS-1 in PI 3-kinase-IRS-1 complexes. Phosphopeptide mapping showed that insulin-dependent in vivo sites of IRS-1 serine phosphorylation were comparable to those of PAS kinase phosphorylated IRS-1. More importantly, PAS kinase-dependent phosphorylation of IRS-1 reduced by 4-fold the ability of IRS-1 to act as an insulin receptor substrate. Taken together, these findings indicate that: (a) PAS kinase is distinct from the intrinsic serine kinase activity of PI 3-kinase, (b) PAS kinase associates with the p85 subunit of PI 3-kinase through SH2 domain interactions, and (c) PAS kinase is an IRS-1 serine kinase that can reduce the ability of IRS-1 to serve as an insulin receptor substrate.
Grb2 binding to the different isoforms of Ret tyrosine kinase.	The RET proto-oncogene encodes two isoforms of a receptor tyrosine kinase which plays a role in neural crest and kidney development. Ret ligands have been recently identified as the neuron survival factor GDNF (Glial-Derived Neurotrophic Factor) and Neurturin. Somatic rearrangements of RET, designated RET/PTCs, have been frequently detected in papillary thyroid carcinomas. In addition, distinct germ-line mutations of RET gene have been associated with the inherited cancer syndromes MEN (Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia) 2A, 2B and FMTC (Familial Medullar Thyroid Carcinomas) as well as with the congenital megacolon or Hirschsprung's disease, thus enlightening a significant role of this receptor gene in diverse human pathologic conditions. In this study, by performing classical inhibition experiments using synthetic phosphopeptides and by site-directed mutagenesis of the putative docking site, we have determined that for Grb2 the latter is provided by the tyrosine 620 of Ret/ptc2 long isoform (corresponding to Tyr 1096 on proto-Ret). However, in intact cells, the interaction of Grb2 with the two short and long Ret isoforms expressed separately is of similar strength, thus suggesting that Ret short isoform interaction with Grb2 could be mediated not only by Shc but also by a molecule that binds preferentially to this isoform. This possibility is supported by the evidence that the mutant Ret/ptc2Y620F long isoform displays a weak coimmunoprecipitation with Grb2 and that this mutant, lacking the docking site for Grb2 but owing all the others phosphotyrosines, surprisingly displays a reduced transforming activity compared to that of the two WTs oncogenes. We thus conclude that in intact cells both Ret isoforms bind to Grb2, although with different modalities. In addition, the present results are in agreement with the possibility that different signal transduction pathways are associated with the two isoforms of Ret.
Virion incorporation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Nef is mediated by a bipartite membrane-targeting signal: analysis of its role in enhancement of viral infectivity.	The nef gene of primate immunodeficiency viruses is essential for high-titer virus replication and AIDS pathogenesis in vivo. In tissue culture, Nef is not required for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection but enhances viral infectivity. We and others have shown that Nef is incorporated into HIV-1 particles and cleaved by the viral proteinase. To determine the signal for Nef incorporation and to analyze whether virion-associated Nef is responsible for enhancement of infectivity, we generated a panel of nef mutants and analyzed them for virion incorporation of Nef and for their relative infectivities. We report that N-terminal truncations of Nef abolished its incorporation into HIV particles. Incorporation was reconstituted by targeting the respective proteins to the plasma membrane by using a heterologous signal. Mutational analysis revealed that both myristoylation and an N-terminal cluster of basic amino acids were required for virion incorporation and for plasma membrane targeting of Nef. Grafting the N-terminal anchor domain of Nef onto the green fluorescent protein led to membrane targeting and virion incorporation of the resulting fusion protein. These results indicate that Nef incorporation into HIV-1 particles is mediated by plasma membrane targeting via an N-terminal bipartite signal which is reminiscent of a Src homology region 4. Virion incorporation of Nef correlated with enhanced infectivity of the respective viruses in a single-round replication assay. However, the phenotypes of HIV mutants with reduced Nef incorporation only partly correlated with their ability to replicate in primary lymphocytes, indicating that additional or different mechanisms may be involved in this system.
Identification of the binding site for Gqalpha on its effector Bruton's tyrosine kinase.	Heterotrimeric G proteins and tyrosine kinases are two major cellular signal transducers. Although G proteins are known to activate tyrosine kinases, the activation mechanism is not clear. Here, we demonstrate that G protein Gqalpha binds directly to the nonreceptor Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) to a region composed of a Tec-homology (TH) domain and a sarcoma virus tyrosine kinase (Src)-homology 3 (SH3) domain both in vitro and in vivo. Only active GTP-bound Gqalpha, not inactive GDP-bound Gqalpha, can bind to Btk. Mutations of Btk that disrupt its ability to bind Gqalpha also eliminate Btk stimulation by Gqalpha, suggesting that this interaction is important for Btk activation. Remarkably, the structure of this TH (including a proline-rich sequence) -SH3 fragment of the Btk family of tyrosine kinases shows an intramolecular interaction. Furthermore, the crystal structure of the Src family of tyrosine kinases reveals that the intramolecular interaction of SH3 and its ligand is the major determining factor keeping the kinase inactive. Thus, we propose an activation model that entails binding of Gqalpha to the TH-SH3 region, thereby disrupting the TH-SH3 intramolecular interaction and activating Btk.
The X-linked lymphoproliferative-disease gene product SAP regulates signals induced through the co-receptor SLAM.	In addition to triggering the activation of B- or T-cell antigen receptors, the binding of a ligand to its receptor at the cell surface can sometimes determine the physiological outcome of interactions between antigen-presenting cells, T and B lymphocytes. The protein SLAM (also known as CDw150), which is present on the surface of B and T cells, forms such a receptor-ligand pair as it is a self-ligand. We now show that a T-cell-specific, SLAM-associated protein (SAP), which contains an SH2 domain and a short tall, acts as an inhibitor by blocking recruitment of the SH2-domain-containing signal-transduction molecule SHP-2 to a docking site in the SLAM cytoplasmic region. The gene encoding SAP maps to the same area of the X chromosome as the locus for X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) and we found mutations in the SAP gene in three XLP patients. Absence of the inhibitor SAP in XLP patients affects T/B-cell interactions induced by SLAM, leading to an inability to control B-cell proliferation caused by Epstein-Barr virus infections.
Proteasomes regulate erythropoietin receptor and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) activation. Possible involvement of the ubiquitinated Cis protein.	Cis is an Src homology 2 domain-containing protein, which binds to the erythropoietin receptor and decreases erythropoietin-stimulated cell proliferation. We show that Cis associates with the second tyrosine residue of the intracellular domain of the erythropoietin receptor (Tyr401). Two forms of Cis with molecular masses of 32 and 37 kDa were detected, and we demonstrate that the 37-kDa protein resulted from post-translational modifications of the 32-kDa form. Anti-ubiquitin antibodies recognized the 37-kDa form of Cis and the proteasome inhibitors N-acetyl-leucyl-leucyl-norleucinal and lactacystin inhibited its degradation, showing that the 37-kDa form of Cis is a ubiquitinated protein, which seems to be rapidly degraded by the proteasome. In erythropoietin-stimulated UT-7 cells, the activation of the erythropoietin receptor and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) was transient and returned to basal levels after 30-60 min of erythropoietin stimulation. In contrast, these proteins remained strongly phosphorylated, and STAT5 remained activated for at least 120 min in the presence of proteasome inhibitors. These experiments demonstrate that the proteasomes are involved in the down-regulation of the erythropoietin receptor activation signals. Because the proteasome inhibitors induced the accumulation of both the ubiquitinated form of Cis and the Cis-erythropoietin receptor complexes, our results suggest that the ubiquitinated form of Cis could be involved in the proteasome-mediated inactivation of the erythropoietin receptor.
Recruitment and activation of SHP-1 protein-tyrosine phosphatase by human platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1). Identification of immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif-like binding motifs and substrates.	Stimulation of platelet aggregation leads to tyrosine phosphorylation of a number of receptors and signaling molecules including platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1). In this report, we demonstrate that both protein-tyrosine phosphatases SHP-1 and SHP-2 physically associate with different kinetics of assembly with tyrosine-phosphorylated human PECAM-1 during integrin alphaIIbbeta3-mediated platelet aggregation. Peptido-precipitation analysis revealed that tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides encompassing residues 658-668 and 681-691 of PECAM-1 bound specifically to both protein-tyrosine phosphatases SHP-1 and SHP-2. We further show that the association of SHP-1 with PECAM-1 occurs through the direct interaction of the src homology region 2 domains of SHP-1 with two highly conserved phosphotyrosine binding motifs within PECAM-1 having the sequences NSDVQpY663TEVQV and DTETVpY686SEVRK (where pY represents phosphotyrosine). In vitro dephosphorylation experiments using phosphotyrosyl PECAM-1 peptides encompassing either Tyr-663 or Tyr-686 revealed induction of SHP-1 catalytic activity, suggesting that PECAM-1 serves as a SHP-1 substrate. Surface plasmon resonance studies reveal that recombinant SHP-2 binds PECAM-1 phosphopeptides with 5-fold higher affinity than recombinant SHP-1. These data suggest that in hematopoietic cells such as platelets, PECAM-1 cellular signaling is regulated by the selective recruitment and activation of two distinct protein-tyrosine phosphatases, SHP-1 and SHP-2, via a common immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory-like motif.
Interaction of Bnr1p with a novel Src homology 3 domain-containing Hof1p. Implication in cytokinesis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.	Proteins containing the formin homology (FH) domains FH1 and FH2 are involved in cytokinesis or establishment of cell polarity in a variety of organisms. We have shown that the FH proteins Bni1p and Bnr1p are potential targets of the Rho family small GTP-binding proteins and bind to an actin-binding protein, profilin, at their proline-rich FH1 domains to regulate reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We found here that a novel Src homology 3 (SH3) domain-containing protein, encoded by YMR032w, interacted with Bnr1p in a GTP-Rho4p-dependent manner through the FH1 domain of Bnr1p and the SH3 domain of Ymr032wp. Ymr032wp weakly bound to Bni1p. Ymr032wp was homologous to cdc15p, which is involved in cytokinesis in Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and we named this gene HOF1 (homolog of cdc 15). Both Bnr1p and Hof1p were localized at the bud neck, and both the bnr1 and hof1 mutations showed synthetic lethal interactions with the bni1 mutation. The hof1 mutant cells showed phenotypes similar to those of the septin mutants, indicating that HOF1 is involved in cytokinesis. These results indicate that Bnr1p directly interacts with Hof1p as well as with profilin to regulate cytoskeletal functions in S. cerevisiae.
Biomolecular interaction analysis of IFN gamma-induced signaling events in whole-cell lysates: prevalence of latent STAT1 in high-molecular weight complexes.	The basic framework for the JAK/STAT pathway is well documented. Recruitment of latent cytoplasmic STAT transcription factors to tyrosine phosphorylated docking sites on cytokine receptors and their JAK-mediated phosphorylation instigates their translocation to the nucleus and their ability to bind DNA. The biochemical processes underlying recruitment and activation of this pathway have commonly been studied in reconstituted in vitro systems using previously defined recombinant signaling components. We have dissected the Interferon gamma (IFN gamma) signal transduction pathway in crude extracts from wild-type and STAT1-negative mutant cell lines by real-time BIAcore analysis, size-exclusion (SE) chromatography and immuno-detection. The data indicate that in detergent-free cell extracts: (1) the phospho-tyrosine (Y440P)-containing peptide motif of the IFN gamma-receptor alpha-chain interacts directly with STAT1, or STAT1 complexes, and no other protein; (2) non-activated STAT1 is present in a higher molecular weight complex(es) and, at least for IFN gamma-primed cells, is available for recruitment to the activated IFN gamma-receptor from only a subset of such complexes; (3) activated STAT1 is released from the receptor as a monomer.
The many faces of Src: multiple functions of a prototypical tyrosine kinase.	c-src was first isolated as the normal cellular homologue of v-src, the transforming gene of Rous Sarcoma virus (Stehelin et al., 1976). As the first proto-oncogene described and one of the first molecules demonstrated to have tyrosine kinase activity, Src has provided a prototype for understanding signal transduction involving tyrosine phosphorylation. Comparison between c-src and activated or transforming mutants of Src including v-src, combined with recent data on the structure of Src family kinases has provided new insight into their regulation. In this review, I will discuss the function of the various domains of Src in light of these mutational and structural studies.
From Src Homology domains to other signaling modules: proposal of the 'protein recognition code'.	The study of oncogenes has illuminated many aspects of cellular signaling. The delineation and characterization of protein modules exemplified by Src Homology domains has revolutionized our understanding of the molecular events underlying signal transduction pathways. Several well characterized intracellular modules which mediate protein-protein interactions, namely SH2, SH3, PH, PTB, EH, PDZ, EVH1 and WW domains, are directly involved in the multitude of membrane, cytoplasmic and nuclear processes in multicellular and/or unicellular organisms. The modular character of these protein domains and their cognate motifs, the universality of their molecular function, their widespread occurrence, and the specificity as well as the degeneracy of their interactions have prompted us to propose the concept of the 'protein recognition code'. By a parallel analogy to the universal genetic code, we propose here that there will be a finite set of precise rules to govern and predict protein-protein interactions mediated by modules. Several rules of the 'protein recognition code' have already emerged.
High populations of non-native structures in the denatured state are compatible with the formation of the native folded state.	The structures of the denatured states of the spectrin SH3 domain and a mutant designed to have a non-native helical tendency at the N terminus have been analyzed under mild acidic denaturing conditions by nuclear magnetic resonance methods with improved resolution. The wild-type denatured state has little residual structure. However, the denatured state of the mutant has an approximately 50% populated helical structure from residues 2 to 14, a region that forms part of the beta-sheet structure in the folded state. Comparison with a peptide corresponding to the same sequence shows that the helix is stabilized in the whole domain, likely by non-local interactions with other parts of the protein as suggested by changes in a region far from the mutated sequence. These results demonstrate that high populations of non-native secondary structure elements in the denatured state are compatible with the formation of the native folded structure.
Three-dimensional profiles: a new tool to identify protein surface similarities.	We report a procedure for the description and comparison of protein surfaces, which is based on a three-dimensional (3D) transposition of the profile method for sensitive protein homology sequence searches. Although the principle of the method can be applied to detect similarities to a single protein surface, the possibility of extending this approach to protein families displaying common structural and/or functional properties, makes it a more powerful tool. In analogy to profiles derived from the multiple alignment of protein sequences, we derive a 3D surface profile from a protein structure or from a multiple structure alignment of several proteins. The 3D profile is used to screen the protein structure database, searching for similar protein surfaces. The application of the procedure to SH2 and SH3 binding pockets and to the nucleotide binding pocket associated with the p-loop structural motif is described. The SH2 and SH3 3D profiles can identify all the SH2 and SH3 binding regions present in the test dataset; the p-loop 3D profile is able to recognize all the p-loop-containing proteins present in the test dataset. Analysis of the p-loop 3D profile allowed the identification of a positive charge whose position is conserved in space but not in sequence. The best ranking non-p-loop-containing protein is an ADP-forming succinyl coenzyme A synthetase, whose nucleotide-binding region has not yet been identified.
RA70 is a src kinase-associated protein expressed ubiquitously.	RA70, which is expressed during neuronal differentiation of P19 EC, is highly homologous to human src kinase-associated phosphoprotein (SKAP55). Here we isolated human full-length RA70 cDNA. Unlike SKAP55, which is specifically expressed in thymus and T cells, RA70 was expressed ubiquitously in various tissues including lung, skeletal muscle, and spleen, and in various cell lines including human monocytic leukemia (U937) cells, but RA70 was undetectable in thymus and T cell lymphoma (Jurkat) cells. RA70 as well as SKAP55 proved to be a protein with molecular weight 55 kDa associated with SH2 domain of Fyn. Interaction between RA70 and src family kinases, Fyn, Hck and Lyn, was detected during monocytes/macrophage-differentiation of U937 cells. Thus, like SKAP55, RA70 is an adaptor protein of the src family kinases. RA70 may play an essential role in the src signaling pathway in various cells.
Phospholipid-binding protein domains.	Research into cellular mechanisms for signal transduction is currently one of the most exciting and rapidly advancing fields of biological study. It has been known for some time that numerous intracellular signals are transmitted by specific protein-protein interactions, as exemplified by those involving the Src homology domains. However, after some controversy, it has recently been widely accepted that specific protein-phospholipid interactions also play key roles in many signal transduction pathways. In this review, landmark discoveries and recent advances describing protein domains known to associate with phospholipids are discussed. Particular emphasis is placed on the interactions of proteins with phospholipids acting as second messengers in signalling pathways. For this purpose, the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain is highlighted, since studies of this domain provided some of the earliest, detailed data about protein-phospholipid interactions occurring downstream of growth factor-mediated receptor stimulation. Moreover, studies of PH domains have given insight into the mechanisms of certain diseases, revealed a number of intriguing functional variations on a common structural theme and recently culminated in providing the missing links in erstwhile mysteries of phosphoinositide-dependent signal transduction pathways. Finally, a short discussion is devoted to the developing field of protein-phospholipid interactions that influence cytoskeletal organisation.
Nck-2, a novel Src homology2/3-containing adaptor protein that interacts with the LIM-only protein PINCH and components of growth factor receptor kinase-signaling pathways.	Many of the protein-protein interactions that are essential for eukaryotic intracellular signal transduction are mediated by protein binding modules including SH2, SH3, and LIM domains. Nck is a SH3- and SH2-containing adaptor protein implicated in coordinating various signaling pathways, including those of growth factor receptors and cell adhesion receptors. We report here the identification, cloning, and characterization of a widely expressed, Nck-related adaptor protein termed Nck-2. Nck-2 comprises primarily three N-terminal SH3 domains and one C-terminal SH2 domain. We show that Nck-2 interacts with PINCH, a LIM-only protein implicated in integrin-linked kinase signaling. The PINCH-Nck-2 interaction is mediated by the fourth LIM domain of PINCH and the third SH3 domain of Nck-2. Furthermore, we show that Nck-2 is capable of recognizing several key components of growth factor receptor kinase-signaling pathways including EGF receptors, PDGF receptor-beta, and IRS-1. The association of Nck-2 with EGF receptors was regulated by EGF stimulation and involved largely the SH2 domain of Nck-2, although the SH3 domains of Nck-2 also contributed to the complex formation. The association of Nck-2 with PDGF receptor-beta was dependent on PDGF activation and was mediated solely by the SH2 domain of Nck-2. Additionally, we have detected a stable association between Nck-2 and IRS-1 that was mediated primarily via the second and third SH3 domain of Nck-2. Thus, Nck-2 associates with PINCH and components of different growth factor receptor-signaling pathways via distinct mechanisms. Finally, we provide evidence indicating that a fraction of the Nck-2 and/or Nck-1 proteins are associated with the cytoskeleton. These results identify a novel Nck-related SH2- and SH3-domain-containing protein and suggest that it may function as an adaptor protein connecting the growth factor receptor-signaling pathways with the integrin-signaling pathways.
c-Cbl tyrosine phosphorylation and subcellular localization in human primary leukemic cells.	Several studies indicate that a number of signal-transducing molecules involved in the proliferation, differentiation, and functional activation of normal hemopoietic cells may be constitutively activated in primary leukemic cells and play a role in the outcome or in the progression of these neoplastic disorders. In this study we show that the product of the proto-oncogene c-Cbl, whose function is still unknown, is constitutively tyrosine phosphorylated not only in cells from chronic myelogenous leukemias (CMLs) in the blast phase, but also in cells from acute myeloblastic leukemias (AMLs), Ph-negative acute T-lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALLs), and Ph-negative pre-B lymphoblastic leukemias (pre-B ALL). Moreover, in acute leukemia cells, c-Cbl was not stably complexed with the tyrosine-phosphorylated adaptor protein CrkL. The analysis of Grb2/c-Cbl interaction demonstrated that, in both acute leukemia and CML blasts, c-Cbl was stably complexed with the N-terminal Src homology (SH) 3 domain of Grb2 and, in blasts from ALL patients, with the Grb2 SH2 domain. The analysis of c-Cbl subcellular distribution showed that in all cases of leukemia tested, as well as in growth factor-stimulated M-07e cells, c-Cbl was present in the cytosolic, in the membrane, and in the detergent-insoluble fractions. Finally, in polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) from CML patients, c-Cbl was found stably associated with the detergent-insoluble fraction, whereas in PMNs from normal donors, it was detected only in the cytosolic fraction. Our findings that c-Cbl is constitutively tyrosine phosphorylated and associated with the detergent-insoluble fraction in AML and ALL blasts and in PMNs from CML patients suggest that this event represents a common step in the neoplastic transformation of both myeloid and lymphoid progenitor cells.
Fluorescent labeling of the leukocyte NADPH oxidase subunit p47(phox): evidence for amphiphile-induced conformational changes.	The leukocyte NADPH oxidase of neutrophils is a membrane-bound enzyme that catalyzes the production of O-2 from oxygen using NADPH as the electron donor. Dormant in resting neutrophils, the enzyme acquires catalytic activity when the cells are exposed to appropriate stimuli. During activation, the cytosolic oxidase components p47(phox) and p67(phox) migrate to the plasma membrane, where they associate with cytochrome b558, a membrane-integrated flavohemoprotein, to assemble the active oxidase. Oxidase activation can be mimicked in a cell-free system using an anionic amphiphile, such as sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) or arachidonic acid, as an activating agent. It has been proposed that conformational changes in the protein structure of cytosolic factor p47(phox) may be an important part of the activation mechanism. The purpose of the present study was to develop an approach to directly monitor conformational changes in p47(phox) when treated with amphiphiles. Cysteines in recombinant p47(phox) were covalently labeled with a sulfhydryl-reactive, environmentally sensitive, fluorescent probe N, N'-dimethyl-N(iodoacetyl)-N'-(7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1, 3-diazol-4-yl)ethyleneamine (IANBD). A series of mutant p47(phox) proteins in which the individual cysteine (C98, C111, C196, and C378) was replaced with alanine revealed that all four cysteines of p47(phox) are reactive to IANBD. We found that anionic amphiphiles elicited a dose-dependent increase in fluorescence at an emission maximum of 537 nm from IANBD-labeled p47(phox). Furthermore, a blue shift of emission maximum and a decrease in quenching by the ionic quencher, potassium iodide, were observed in the presence of amphiphiles. These results indicate that the amphiphile-mediated increase in fluorescence from IANBD-labeled p47(phox) is due to the conformational change as seen in the leukocyte NADPH oxidase activation. We propose that this alteration in conformation results in the appearance of a binding site through which p47(phox) interacts with cytochrome b558 during the activation process. In addition, recombinant p67(phox) or a peptide containing proline-rich sequence of p22(phox) (residues 149-162) induces the attenuation of the amphiphile-mediated enhancement of fluorescence from IANBD-labeled p47(phox). This supports the notion that both p67(phox) and p22(phox) influence the conformation of p47(phox).
Characterization of Cbl-Nck and Nck-Pak1 interactions in myeloid FcgammaRII signaling.	Fc receptors modulate inflammatory processes, including phagocytosis, serotonin and histamine release, superoxide production, and secretion of cytokines. Aggregation of FcgammaRIIa, the low-affinity receptor for monomeric IgG, activates nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinases such as Lyn, Hck, and Syk, potentially driving the phosphorylation of the downstream adaptor proteins, including Cbl and/or Nck. Previous work from our laboratory using interferon-gamma-differentiated U937 (U937IF) myeloid cells investigated mechanisms which regulate Fcgamma receptor-induced assembly of adaptor complexes. Herein we report that FcgammaRII receptor signaling in U937IF and HEL cells involves Cbl and Nck, suggesting that Cbl-Nck interactions may link FcgammaRII to downstream activation of Pak kinase. FcgammaRII crosslinking induced the phosphorylation of Cbl and Nck on tyrosine. The alphaCbl immunoprecipitations revealed constitutive binding of Nck and Grb2 to Cbl and FcgammaRII-inducible binding of CrkL to Cbl. The interactions of Cbl with Nck and CrkL were phosphorylation dependent since dephosphorylation of cellular proteins with potato acid phosphatase abrogated binding. GST-Nck fusion protein pulldown experiments show that Cbl and Pak1 bind to the second SH3 domain of Nck. A specific Src inhibitor, PP1, was shown to completely abrogate the FcgammaR-induced superoxide response, correlating with a decrease in Cbl and Nck tyrosine phosphorylation. Our results provide the first evidence that Src is required for FcgammaR activation of the respiratory burst in myeloid cells and suggest that Cbl-Nck, Cbl-Pak1, and Nck-Pak1 interactions may regulate this response.
Exploiting the basis of proline recognition by SH3 and WW domains: design of N-substituted inhibitors.	Src homology 3 (SH3) and WW protein interaction domains bind specific proline-rich sequences. However, instead of recognizing critical prolines on the basis of side chain shape or rigidity, these domains broadly accepted amide N-substituted residues. Proline is apparently specifically selected in vivo, despite low complementarity, because it is the only endogenous N-substituted amino acid. This discriminatory mechanism explains how these domains achieve specific but low-affinity recognition, a property that is necessary for transient signaling interactions. The mechanism can be exploited: screening a series of ligands in which key prolines were replaced by nonnatural N-substituted residues yielded a ligand that selectively bound the Grb2 SH3 domain with 100 times greater affinity.
Protein-tyrosine phosphatase Shp-1 is a negative regulator of IL-4- and IL-13-dependent signal transduction.	Binding of interleukin (IL)-4 to its transmembrane receptor results in the Jak-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of a number of protein components of the IL-4 signaling cascade, including Jak1, Jak2, Jak3, Tyk2, IL-4Ralpha, IRS-1, IRS-2, and Stat6 in appropriate cell types. However, the protein-tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) that dephosphorylate these proteins and terminate signaling remained unidentified. We have noted that IL-4-dependent activation of Stat6 is sustained longer in fibroblasts than in lymphoid cells. Because Shp-1, an SH2 domain-containing PTP, is expressed primarily in hematopoietic cells, we examined whether Shp-1 activity could regulate IL-4-dependent cell signaling. Expression of an Shp-1 transgene in NIH 3T3 cells markedly reduces both IL-4-dependent Stat6 activation and Stat6-mediated transcription of IL-4-responsive genes. In accord with this, IL-4 treatment of bone marrow-derived macrophages from viable motheaten mice that express substantially reduced levels of Shp-1 activity show remarkably enhanced activation of Stat6. In addition, Stat6 activation by IL-4 is significantly enhanced in pre-B cells derived from motheaten (Shp-1 null mutant) mice compared with normal pre-B cells derived from control animals. These data clearly implicate Shp-1 in the negative regulation of the IL-4/IL-13-activated Jak-Stat pathway.
Physical and functional interaction between p72(syk) and erythropoietin receptor.	Erythropoietin (Epo) regulates the proliferation and differentiation of erythroid cells through interaction with a cell surface receptor (EpoR) that belongs to the cytokine receptor family. The Jak2 tyrosine kinase was previously shown to bind to the EpoR, to be activated upon Epo stimulation, and to play a critical role in Epo-induced proliferation. However, little is known about the role of other tyrosine kinases in Epo signaling. In this paper, we examined whether Syk was involved in EpoR activation. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed that the phosphorylated EpoR was associated with the Syk kinase in activated UT7 cells. The interaction of Epo with its receptor led to an increased kinase activity. The use of recombinant Syk Src homology 2 (SH2) domains expressed in tandem or individually revealed that both N- and C-SH2 domains of Syk participated in EpoR binding with a major contribution of the C-terminal SH2 domain. Far Western blotting further indicated that Syk directly binds to the EpoR and that the interaction of Syk with EpoR only occurred after Epo activation. These data suggest that phosphorylation of EpoR on tyrosine residues may mediate Syk binding to the receptor through interaction between the two SH2 domains of Syk and tyrosines of the receptor. We propose that in addition to Jak2, Syk protein kinase may be a component of EpoR signaling.
The p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase associates with the Fc receptor gamma-chain and linker for activitor of T cells (LAT) in platelets stimulated by collagen and convulxin.	There is extensive evidence to show that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase plays an important role in signaling by the immune family of receptors, which has recently been extended to include the platelet collagen receptor, glycoprotein VI. In this report we present two potential mechanisms for the regulation of this enzyme on stimulation of platelets by collagen. We show that on stimulation with collagen, the regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase associates with the tyrosine-phosphorylated form of the adapter protein linker for activator of T Cells (LAT) and the tyrosine-phosphorylated immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif of the Fc receptor gamma-chain (a component of the collagen receptor complex that includes glycoprotein VI). The associations of the Fc receptor gamma-chain and LAT with p85 are rapid and supported by the Src-homology 2 domains of the regulatory subunit. We did not obtain evidence to support previous observations that the regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is regulated through association with the tyrosine kinase Syk. The present results provide a molecular basis for the regulation of the p85/110 form of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase by GPVI, the collagen receptor that underlies activation.
Insulin receptor substrate 2 and Shc play different roles in insulin-like growth factor I signaling.	The major substrates for the type I insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) receptor are Shc and insulin receptor substrate (IRS) proteins. In the current study, we report that IGF-I induces a sustained tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc and its association with Grb2 in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. The time course of Shc tyrosine phosphorylation parallels the time course of IGF-I-stimulated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Transfection of SH-SY5Y cells with a p52 Shc mutant decreases Shc tyrosine phosphorylation and Shc-Grb2 association. This results in the inhibition of IGF-I-mediated ERK tyrosine phosphorylation and neurite outgrowth. In contrast, IGF-I induces a transient tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-2 and an association of IRS-2 with Grb2. The time course of IRS-2 tyrosine phosphorylation and IRS-2-Grb2 and IRS-2-p85 association closely resembles the time course of IGF-I-mediated membrane ruffling. Treating cells with the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase inhibitors wortmannin and LY294002 blocks IGF-I-induced membrane ruffling. The ERK kinase inhibitor PD98059, as well as transfection with the p52 Shc mutant, has no effect on IGF-I-mediated membrane ruffling. Immunolocalization studies show IRS-2 and Grb2, but not Shc, concentrated at the tip of the extending growth cone where membrane ruffling is most active. Collectively, these results suggest that the association of Shc with Grb2 is essential for IGF-I-mediated neurite outgrowth, whereas the IRS-2-Grb2-phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase complex may regulate growth cone extension and membrane ruffling.
Son of sevenless binds to the SH3 domain of src-type tyrosine kinase.	To identify molecules which bind to the SH3 domains of p56lck, we screened a mouse T-cell lymphoma cDNA library using the yeast two-hybrid system. As a result, we obtained several positive clones including the Son of Sevenless gene which encodes a mammalian homolog of Drosophila Ras GDP/GTP exchange factor. In a subsequent analysis with the yeast two-hybrid system, Sos associated only with the constitutively active form of p56lck (F505) but not with wild type p56lck (Y505), indicating the requirement for an active conformation of p56lck for binding to Sos. Subsequently, we have demonstrated in vitro that the SH3 domain of p56lck as well as the proline-rich sequences of Sos are responsible for this association. In addition, the proline-rich domain of Sos also bound to the SH3 domains of other src-type tyrosine kinases, src and fyn, but not to that of PLC-gamma. More importantly, the p56lck SH3-Sos interaction was enhanced by serum stimulation, suggesting the possibility that the direct interaction between p56lck SH3 and Sos may contribute to the regulation of the Ras pathway.
Molecular basis of T cell inactivation by CTLA-4.	CTLA-4, a negative regulator of T cell function, was found to associate with the T cell receptor (TCR) complex zeta chain in primary T cells. The association of TCRzeta with CTLA-4, reconstituted in 293 transfectants, was enhanced by p56(lck)-induced tyrosine phosphorylation. Coexpression of the CTLA-4-associated tyrosine phosphatase, SHP-2, resulted in dephosphorylation of TCRzeta bound to CTLA-4 and abolished the p56(lck)-inducible TCRzeta-CTLA-4 interaction. Thus, CTLA-4 inhibits TCR signal transduction by binding to TCRzeta and inhibiting tyrosine phosphorylation after T cell activation. These findings have broad implications for the negative regulation of T cell function and T cell tolerance.
Cbl-mediated negative regulation of the Syk tyrosine kinase. A critical role for Cbl phosphotyrosine-binding domain binding to Syk phosphotyrosine 323.	The proto-oncogene product Cbl has emerged as a potential negative regulator of the Syk tyrosine kinase; however, the nature of physical interactions between Cbl and Syk that are critical for this negative regulation remains unclear. Here we show that the phosphotyrosine-binding (PTB) domain within the N-terminal transforming region of Cbl (Cbl-N) binds to phosphorylated Tyr323 in the linker region between the Src homology 2 and kinase domains of Syk, confirming recent results by another laboratory using the yeast two-hybrid approach (Deckert, M., Elly, C., Altman, A., and Liu, Y. C. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 8867-8874). A PTB domain-inactivating point mutation (G306E), corresponding to a loss-of-function mutation in the Caenorhabditis elegans Cbl homologue SLI-1, severely compromised Cbl-N/Syk binding in vitro and Cbl/Syk association in transfected COS-7 cells. Using heterologous expression in COS-7 cells, we investigated the role of Cbl PTB domain binding to Syk Tyr323 in the negative regulation of Syk. Co-expression of Cbl with Syk in COS-7 cells led to a dose-dependent decrease in the autophosphorylated pool of Syk and in phosphorylation of an in vivo substrate, CD8-zeta. Unexpectedly, these effects were largely due to the loss of Syk protein. Both the decrease in Syk and CD8-zeta phosphorylation and reduction in Syk protein levels were blocked by either G306E mutation in Cbl or by Y323F mutation in Syk. These results demonstrate a critical role for the Cbl PTB domain in the recruitment of Cbl to Syk and in Cbl-mediated negative regulation of Syk.
Mona, a novel hematopoietic-specific adaptor interacting with the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor, is implicated in monocyte/macrophage development.	The production, survival and function of monocytes and macrophages are regulated by the macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF or CSF-1) through its tyrosine kinase receptor Fms. Binding of M-CSF results in Fms autophosphorylation on specific tyrosines that act as docking sites for intracellular signaling molecules containing SH2 domains. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we cloned a novel adaptor protein which we called 'Mona' for monocytic adaptor. Mona contains one SH2 domain and two SH3 domains related to the Grb2 adaptor. Accordingly, Mona interacts with activated Fms on phosphorylated Tyr697, which is also the Grb2-binding site. Furthermore, Mona contains a unique proline-rich region located between the SH2 domain and the C-terminal SH3 domain, and is apparently devoid of any catalytic domain. Mona expression is restricted to two hematopoietic tissues: the spleen and the peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and is induced rapidly during monocytic differentiation of the myeloid NFS-60 cell line in response to M-CSF. Strikingly, overexpression of Mona in bone marrow cells results in strong reduction of M-CSF-dependent macrophage production in vitro. Taken together, our results suggest an important role for Mona in the regulation of monocyte/macrophage development as controlled by M-CSF.
A cdc15-like adaptor protein (CD2BP1) interacts with the CD2 cytoplasmic domain and regulates CD2-triggered adhesion.	A human CD2 cytoplasmic tail-binding protein, termed CD2BP1, was identified by an interaction trap cloning method. Expression of CD2BP1 is restricted to hematopoietic tissue, being prominent in T and natural killer (NK) cells, with long (CD2BP1L) and short (CD2BP1S) variants arising by alternative RNA splicing. Both CD2BP1 molecules are homologous to Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc15, and include a helical domain, variable length intervening PEST sequence and C-terminal SH3 domain. Although the CD2BP1 SH3 domain binds directly to the CD2 sequence, KGPPLPRPRV (amino acids 300-309), its association is augmented markedly by the CD2BP1 N-terminal segment. Upon ligand-induced clustering of surface CD2 molecules, CD2BP1 redistributes from a cytosolic to a surface membrane compartment, co-localizing with CD2. In turn, CD2-stimulated adhesion is downregulated by CD2BP1, apparently through coupling of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-PEST to CD2. These findings offer the first molecular view into the control processes for T cell adhesion.
The adaptor protein Crk connects multiple cellular stimuli to the JNK signaling pathway.	c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are potently activated by a number of cellular stimuli. Small GTPases, in particular Rac, are responsible for initiating the activation of the JNK pathways. So far, the signals leading from extracellular stimuli to the activation of Rac have remained elusive. Recent studies have demonstrated that the Src homology 2 (SH2)- and Src homology 3 (SH3)-containing adaptor protein Crk is capable of activating JNK when ectopically expressed. We found here that transient expression of Crk induces JNK activation, and this activation was dependent on both the SH2- and SH3-domains of Crk. Expression of p130(Cas) (Cas), a major binding protein for the Crk SH2-domain, also induced JNK activation, which was blocked by the SH2-mutant of Crk. JNK activation by Cas and Crk was effectively blocked by a dominant-negative form of Rac, suggesting for a linear pathway from the Cas-Crk-complex to the Rac-JNK activation. Many of the stimuli that activate the Rac-JNK pathway enhance engagement of the Crk SH2-domain. JNK activation by these stimuli, such as epidermal growth factor, integrin ligand binding and v-Src, was efficiently blocked by dominant-negative mutants of Crk. A dominant-negative form of Cas in turn blocked the integrin-, but not epidermal growth factor - nor v-Src-mediated JNK activation. Together, these results demonstrate an important role for Crk in connecting multiple cellular stimuli to the Rac-JNK pathway, and a role for the Cas-Crk complex in integrin-mediated JNK activation.
Solid phase synthesis of a biased mini tetrapeptoid-library for the discovery of monodentate ITAM mimics as ZAP-70 inhibitors.	The biased library was composed of a novel phosphotyrosine mimic fixed in the P1 position of a tetrapeptoid and combined with three lipophilic N-substituents at the remaining positions giving a total of 27 single compounds. Screening for ZAP-70 antagonism identified 8 as a novel selective monodentate ZAP-70 antagonist and lead in the search for new immunosuppressive drugs.
The formation of a covalent complex between a dipeptide ligand and the src SH2 domain.	The X-ray crystal structure of the src SH2 domain revealed the presence of a thiol residue (Cys 188) located proximal to the phosphotyrosine portion of a dipeptide ligand. An aldehyde bearing ligand (1) was designed to position an electrophilic carbonyl group in the vicinity of the thiol. X-ray crystallographic and NMR examination of the complex formed between (1) and the src SH2 domain revealed a hemithioacetal formed by addition of the thiol to the aldehyde group with an additional stabilizing hydrogen bond between the acetal hydroxyl and a backbone carbonyl.
The Nck SH2/SH3 adaptor protein: a regulator of multiple intracellular signal transduction events.	The process generally termed signal transduction involves the coordinated relay of information from extracellular cues to intracellular effectors, subsequently leading to a specified cellular response. The formation of multimeric protein complexes is a critical step in the activation of most intracellular signal transduction cascades. In many cases, these processes are initiated by a family of molecules consisting of protein association motifs known as src homology 2 and 3 (SH2 and SH3) domains. This review focuses on a group of proteins within this family that lack intrinsic enzymatic functions and consist almost entirely of SH2 and SH3 domains. Termed "adaptors," these proteins serve to physically bridge activated cell surface receptors to various intracellular signal transduction pathways. Here, I briefly summarize current knowledge concerning the various adaptor proteins and place a particular emphasis on Nck. Various data are discussed which collectively support a role for Nck in the regulation of multiple intracellular signaling events.
Gads is a novel SH2 and SH3 domain-containing adaptor protein that binds to tyrosine-phosphorylated Shc.	Shc proteins are important substrates of receptor and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases that couple activated receptors to downstream signaling enzymes. Phosphorylation of Shc tyrosine residues 239 and 317 leads to recruitment of the Grb2-Sos complex, thus linking Shc phosphorylation to Ras activation. We have used phosphorylated peptides corresponding to the regions spanning tyrosine 239/240 and 317 of Shc in an expression library screen to identify additional downstream targets of Shc. Here we report the identification of Gads, a novel adaptor protein most similar to Grb2 and Grap that contains amino and carboxy terminal SH3 domains flanking a central SH2 domain and a 120 amino acid unique region. Gads is most highly expressed in the thymus and spleen of adult animals and in human leukemic cell lines. The binding specificity of the Gads SH2 domain is similar to Grb2 and mediates the interaction of Gads with Shc, Bcr-Abl and c-kit. Gads does not interact with Sos, Cbl or Sam68, although the isolated carboxy terminal Gads SH3 domain is able to bind these molecules in vitro. Our results suggest that the unique structure of Gads regulates its interaction with downstream SH3 domain-binding proteins and that Gads may function to couple tyrosine-phosphorylated proteins such as Shc, Bcr-Abl and activated receptor tyrosine kinases to downstream effectors distinct from Sos and Ras.
Structure-based design of peptidomimetic ligands of the Grb2-SH2 domain.	We have designed and synthesized a (3-aminomethyl-phenyl)-urea scaffold to mimic the X+1-Asn part of the minimal phosphopeptide sequence, Ac-pTyr-X+1-Asn-NH2, recognized by the Grb2-SH2 domain. The resulting compounds show the same degree of affinity as their peptide counterparts for the Grb2-SH2 domain. This is the first example reported to date of ligands of the Grb2-SH2 domain with substantially reduced peptidic character.
Design and synthesis of SH3 domain binding ligands: modifications of the consensus sequence XPpXP.	Spirolactam-based Pro-Pro mimetics incorporated in the consensus sequence XPpXP, lead to effective nonpeptide ligands of SH3 domains.
