A rapid, non-destructive method for the determination of Staphylococcus epidermidis adhesion to surfaces using quartz crystal resonant sensor technology.	To investigate the use of quartz crystal resonant sensor (QCRS) technology to determine the adhesion of Staphylococcus epidermidis to fibronectin-coated surfaces.
Monitoring of apheresis platelet bacterial contamination with an automated liquid culture system: a university experience.	With 4 million platelet units transfused per year in the United States and with the current estimate of bacteria contamination rate in PLT units, it would be expected that 2000 to 4000 bacterially contaminated units are transfused and associated with 333 to 1000 cases of clinical sepsis.
Adherence and biofilm formation of Staphylococcus epidermidis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis on various spinal implants.	Bacterial adherence and biofilm formation in implant-associated infection may vary depending on species of microorganisms and characteristics of implant surfaces.
Biofilm formation, icaADBC transcription, and polysaccharide intercellular adhesin synthesis by staphylococci in a device-related infection model.	Biofilm formation of Staphylococcus epidermidis and S. aureus is mediated by the polysaccharide intercellular adhesin (PIA) encoded by the ica operon. We used a device-related animal model to investigate biofilm formation, PIA expression (immunofluorescence), and ica transcription (quantitative transcript analysis) throughout the course of infection by using two prototypic S. aureus strains and one S. epidermidis strain as well as corresponding ica mutants. During infection, the ica mutants were growth attenuated when inoculated in competition with the corresponding wild-type strains but not when grown singly. A typical biofilm was observed at the late course of infection. Only in S. aureus RN6390, not in S. aureus Newman, were PIA and ica-specific transcripts detectable after anaerobic growth in vitro. However, both S. aureus strains were PIA positive in vivo by day 8 of infection. ica transcription preceded PIA expression and biofilm formation in vivo. In S. epidermidis, both PIA and ica expression levels were elevated compared to those in the S. aureus strains in vitro as well as in vivo and were detectable throughout the course of infection. In conclusion, in S. aureus, PIA expression is dependent on the genetic background of the strain as well as on strong inducing conditions, such as those dominating in vivo. In S. epidermidis, PIA expression is elevated and less vulnerable to environmental conditions.
Studies on the growth and reproduction of bacterial communities on structural materials of the international space station]	Probability of microbial growth and reproduction on the ISS interior and equipment materials varying in chemical composition was studied with the strains of Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Pseudomonas putida etc. sampled from the ISS environment. Controls were ground reference strains of same bacterial species. Based on our results, some of the microorganisms are able to survive and proliferate on structural materials; the ability was greater in space isolates as compared with their ground analogs. The greatest ability to grow and proliferate on materials was demonstrated by Bacillus subtilis.
Prophylactic gatifloxacin therapy in prevention of bacterial keratitis in a rabbit laser in situ keratomileusis model.	Use the ID(50) (infectious dose to 50% of experimental animals) to quantify the most effective prophylactic dosing regimen to use with gatifloxacin 0.3% (Zymar) for the prevention of keratitis in a rabbit laser in situ keratomileusis model of Staphylococcus epidermidis infection.
Microbial contamination associated with mascara use.	Microbial organisms are normally present on human eyelashes. Application of mascara to lashes has the potential to inoculate the mascara tube with microbes. This pilot study of a real-world situation investigated the microbial contamination of 2 brands of mascara used daily for 3 months.
In vitro adhesion of endogenous skin microorganisms to breast prostheses.	Bacterial proliferation on polymeric biomaterials varies with the material and microorganism. Subclinical infection is implicated frequently as the initiative factor in capsular contracture around breast prostheses. The ability of endogenous skin microorganisms to produce an exopolysaccharide "slime" is emerging as an important factor in biomaterial colonization. This study was designed to demonstrate the ability of microorganisms of varying slime productivity to colonize, in vitro, different kinds of breast prostheses. Six-millimeter disks from seven kinds of silicone prostheses and polyurethane foam were exposed to three radioactivity labeled strains of bacteria, one slime producer, and two non-slime producers, for 1 hour. Data were expressed as colony-forming units bound per disk. There was no significant difference in adherence between the bacterial strains used, suggesting that initial adherence was nonspecific. The adherence did not appear to be related to surface type, whether smooth or textured, nor to the polymeric composition of the implant material, whether silicone or polyurethane, nor to the presence or absence of slime. Also, adherence was consistent with expected nonspecific bacterial adherence to biomaterials.
Microscopic detection of viable Staphylococcus epidermidis in peri-implant tissue in experimental biomaterial-associated infection, identified by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation.	Infection of biomedical devices is characterized by biofilm formation and colonization of surrounding tissue by the causative pathogens. To investigate whether bacteria detected microscopically in tissue surrounding infected devices were viable, we used bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), a nucleotide analogue that is incorporated into bacterial DNA and can be detected with antibodies. Infected human tissue was obtained postmortem from patients with intravascular devices, and mouse biopsy specimens were obtained from mice with experimental biomaterial infection. In vitro experiments showed that Staphylococcus epidermidis incorporated BrdU, as judged from staining of the bacteria with anti-BrdU antibodies. After incubation of bacteria with BrdU and subsequent staining of microscopic sections with anti-BrdU antibodies, bacteria could be clearly visualized in the tissue surrounding intravascular devices of deceased patients. With this staining technique, relapse of infection could be visualized in mice challenged with a low dose of S. epidermidis and treated with dexamethasone between 14 and 21 days after challenge to suppress immunity. This confirms and extends our previous findings that pericatheter tissue is a reservoir for bacteria in biomaterial-associated infection. The pathogenesis of the infection and temporo-spatial distribution of viable, dividing bacteria can now be studied at the microscopic level by immunolabeling with BrdU and BrdU antibodies.
Chain length dependence of antimicrobial peptide-fatty acid conjugate activity.	The rise of resistant bacteria has prompted the search for new antimicrobial agents. Antimicrobial membrane lytic peptides have potential as future microbial agents due to their novel mode of action. Recently conjugation of a fatty acid to antimicrobial peptides has been explored as a method to modulate the activity and selectivity of the peptide. Our work further explores these phenomena by testing two peptides, YGAAKKAAKAAKKAAKAA (AKK) and LKKLLKLLKLLKL (LKK), conjugated to fatty acids of varying length for their activity, structure, solution assembly properties and the ability to bind model membranes. We found that increasing the length of fatty acids conjugated to peptide AKK, up to a 16 carbons in length, increases the antimicrobial activity. Peptide AKK appears to lose activity when the minimal active concentration is higher than the critical miscelle concentration (CMC) of the molecule. Thus, if the CMC of the peptide conjugate is too low the activity is lost. Peptide LKK has no activity when conjugated to lauric acid and appears to aggregate at very low concentrations. Conjugation of AKK with a fatty acid increases its affinity to model supported lipid membranes. It appears that the increased hydrophobic interaction imparted by the fatty acid increases the affinity of the peptide to the surface thus increasing its activity. At concentrations above the CMC, solution self-assembly inhibits binding of the peptide to cell membranes.
Dual-action hygienic coatings: benefits of hydrophobicity and silver ion release for protection of environmental and clinical surfaces.	Coatings that demonstrate reduced attachment of crystalline precipitates and the medical device colonising Staphylococcus epidermidis were prepared by the immobilisation of silver doped perfluoropolyether-urethane siloxane thin films on glass substrates. The presence of stratified hydrophobic perfluoropolyether groups protects the coating surface from the attachment of crystalline hydrophilic species such as chlorides and phosphates, whilst silver ion release inhibited attachment of S. epidermidis and subsequent biofilm formation in vitro. The release of silver ions protects the perfluoro groups from the hydrophobic interactions of S. epidermidis cells, which can reduce the hydrophobicity of the protective coating. These coatings also exhibited significant antibacterial activity against planktonic Acinetobacter baumannii and S. epidermidis bacterial strains. Detailed elemental and chemical surface analysis obtained using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) provided useful information on the effect of bacterial incubation on key indicator hydrophobic and hydrophilic functional groups. XPS analysis indicated preferential adsorption of S. epidermidis cells at the hydrophobic sites along the polymeric chain. These dual-action hygienic coatings can be employed to protect against contamination environmental surfaces and bacterial colonisation on implanted medical devices.
Bacteriological investigation of burn blister fluid]	Under a sterilized technique the fluid of the unbroken blister was obtained for bacterial culture in 73 burned patients with different ages (5 months-67 Y) and extent of injury (1.5%-96% TBSA). Bacterial count was carried out if a positive result is obtained. Among the 73 patients, positive cultures were observed in 12, an incidence of 16.4%. Patients suffering from serious or extremely serious thermal injuries showed a positive culture rate of 15%. Bacterial count of the blister fluid appeared to be higher in patients with extensive burns. Most of the bacteria were common resident organisms of the human body. Of the 4 patients with their blister fluid bacteria counts over 2000 CFU/ml, 2 died from sepsis, while 8 patients with lower than 2000 CFU/ml bacteria in their blister fluid survived. The results suggested that large number of bacteria in the blister fluid might further depress local immunity, so that the patient is more susceptible to infections. It is therefore suggested that culture of blister fluid and bacterial count should be done immediately in the extensively burned patient just after admission.
Diamagnetic levitation enhances growth of liquid bacterial cultures by increasing oxygen availability.	Diamagnetic levitation is a technique that uses a strong, spatially varying magnetic field to reproduce aspects of weightlessness, on the Earth. We used a superconducting magnet to levitate growing bacterial cultures for up to 18 h, to determine the effect of diamagnetic levitation on all phases of the bacterial growth cycle. We find that diamagnetic levitation increases the rate of population growth in a liquid culture and reduces the sedimentation rate of the cells. Further experiments and microarray gene analysis show that the increase in growth rate is owing to enhanced oxygen availability. We also demonstrate that the magnetic field that levitates the cells also induces convective stirring in the liquid. We present a simple theoretical model, showing how the paramagnetic force on dissolved oxygen can cause convection during the aerobic phases of bacterial growth. We propose that this convection enhances oxygen availability by transporting oxygen around the liquid culture. Since this process results from the strong magnetic field, it is not present in other weightless environments, e.g. in Earth orbit. Hence, these results are of significance and timely to researchers considering the use of diamagnetic levitation to explore effects of weightlessness on living organisms and on physical phenomena.
Role of biofilm in Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis ventricular assist device driveline infections.	Infections, especially those involving drivelines, are among the most serious complications that follow ventricular assist device implantation. Staphylococci are the most common causes of these infections. Once driveline infections are established, they can remain localized or progress as an ascending infection to cause metastatic seeding of other tissue sites. Although elaboration of biofilm appears to be critical in prosthetic device infections, its role as a facilitator of staphylococcal infection and migration along the driveline and other prosthetic devices is unclear.
Foam sclerotherapy: investigating the need for sterile air.	Sclerotherapy with foam is becoming increasingly popular for the treatment of varicose veins. There is no consensus on the necessity of sterile air or other gases to produce foam.
Human milk oligosaccharides promote the growth of staphylococci.	Human milk oligosaccharides (HMO), which constitute a major component of human milk, promote the growth of particular bacterial species in the infant's gastrointestinal tract. We hypothesized that HMO also interact with the bacterial communities present in human milk. To test this hypothesis, two experiments were conducted. First, milk samples were collected from healthy women (n = 16); culture-independent analysis of the bacterial communities was performed, HMO content was analyzed, and the relation between these factors was investigated. A positive correlation was observed between the relative abundance of Staphylococcus and total HMO content (r = 0.66). In a follow-up study, we conducted a series of in vitro growth curve experiments utilizing Staphylococcus aureus or Staphylococcus epidermidis and HMO isolated from human milk. HMO exhibited stimulatory effects on bacterial growth under various nutritional conditions. Analysis of culture supernatants from these experiments revealed that HMO did not measurably disappear from the culture medium, indicating that the growth-enhancing effects were not a result of bacterial metabolism of the HMO. Instead, stimulation of growth caused greater utilization of amino acids in minimal medium. Collectively, the data provide evidence that HMO may promote the growth of Staphylococcus species in the lactating mammary gland.
Factors that influence Staphylococcus epidermidis growth in parenteral nutrition with and without lipid emulsion: a study framework to inform maximum duration of infusion policy decisions.	Recommendations limit infusion of parenteral nutrition (PN) from bags with lipid to 24 h (48 h if lipid free) because lipid putatively encourages contaminant growth. This study aimed to examine these recommendations and identify factors affecting Staphylococcus epidermidis growth in PN.
Response of chronic renal failure mice to peritoneal Staphylococcus epidermidis challenge: impact of repeated peritoneal instillation of dialysis solution.	The effect of repeated instillation of peritoneal dialysis (PD) solution on the peritoneal clearance of a Staphylococcus epidermidis challenge was investigated in a mouse model of surgically induced chronic renal failure. For periods of up to 2 weeks, mice bearing peritoneal catheter implants underwent daily (3 mL) or twice daily (1.5 mL) peritoneal instillation of PD solution (4.25% dextrose) by transcutaneous injection into the catheter lumen. Peritoneal instillation of PD solution did not have a significant influence on the microbiological status of peritoneal structures of renal failure or sham-operated mice following experimental intracatheter S epidermidis inoculation with 10(6) colony-forming units (CFU) (assessment 48 hours after inoculation) or 10(8) CFU (assessment 1 week after inoculation). Microbiological and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) assessments of recovered peritoneal catheters demonstrated that S epidermidis remained associated with the catheter site after other peritoneal structures had become culture negative. SEM of the parietal peritoneum revealed striking morphologic alterations of the mesothelial surface as a consequence of daily PD solution infusion. In the absence of S epidermidis inoculation, repeated instillation of PD solution caused a marked acute peritoneal inflammation without evidence of a concomitant systemic inflammatory response. Furthermore, peritoneal inflammatory response to S epidermidis challenge was augmented by the infusion procedure. Concurrent assessments of inflammatory response and microbiological status revealed that, in spite of heightened peritoneal inflammatory response with peritoneal infusion, bacterial clearance from the catheter site was not improved. Although the animal preparation was limited to peritoneal infusion without drainage, the influence of repeated peritoneal instillation of hyperosmolar, acidic PD solution on the response of mice to S epidermidis challenge was successfully addressed.
Bacterial/fungal growth in a combined parenteral nutrition solution.	Appropriately mixed, compatible solutions of glucose, amino acids and lipid have recently become available for clinical use. While a single hyperalimentation solution has several advantages over the conventional two-bottle technique, its effect on infusion-related septicemia is unknown. An in vitro, mock infusion system identical to that used in our new-born intensive care unit was set up to assess the relative growth rates of three microorganisms in several parenteral nutrition mixtures. Growth of Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia coli and Candida albicans was measured in seven different alimentation solutions, including two combined solutions. Generally, microbial growth was the same or decreased in combined solutions as compared to fat alone although considerably greater than that observed in nonlipid containing solutions. In addition, the ability of these organisms to pass in-line terminal filters of pore size 0.22 and 1.2 microns was assessed.
Efficacy of various methods of sterilization of acupuncture needles.	The iatrogenic transmission of hepatitis B virus by inadequately sterilized acupuncture needles recently has been reported. Because some licensed chiropractors use acupuncture as a therapeutic modality, we have evaluated sterilization methods for these needles, which would be adaptable for use in a chiropractic office. Dry heat, boiling water, pressurized steam, sodium hypochlorite, and 70% alcohol were compared with a glass bead dry heat sterilizer originally developed for dental instruments. Presterilized acupuncture needles were contaminated with Bacillus stearothermophilus, Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus epidermidis and sterilized for intervals ranging from 5 sec to 30 min. The needles were then cultured to determine the efficacy of the sterilization regimen. Seventy percent alcohol was ineffective as a sterilization method. In terms of both time and convenience, the glass bead apparatus was the most efficient of the remaining methods tested. B. stearothermophilus-contaminated acupuncture needles were sterilized within 10 sec of exposure to preheated glass beads. Less than 10 sec exposure killed E. coli and S. epidermidis. A significant advantage of the glass bead sterilizer over the other methods was the absence of physical damage to the needles.
Growth of gram-positive mastogenic bacteria in normal, simulated bulk tank, and mastitic milk held at simulated fluctuating temperatures of farm bulk tank.	Growth of Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus dysgalactiae, Streptococcus bovis, and Streptococcus uberis was studied in normal milk, simulated bulk tank milk, and aseptic mastitic milk held at simulated fluctuating temperatures of farm bulk tank for 48 h. With the exception of S. bovis, growth rates of the other five bacteria were similar in both normal and simulated bulk tank milk. Mastitic milk inhibited growth of all bacteria studied. A 24-h adjustment period occurred before most of the bacteria started growing. The mastitis level in a dairy herd may be monitored by cultures of bulk tank milk samples and by calculations as discussed in this study.
Cell wall alterations in staphylococci growing in situ in experimental osteomyelitis.	When cells of both Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis are grown in batch culture in nutrient-rich media, their cell walls are regular in thickness, their cell size is within the normal range for each species, and their septation patterns are orderly. When cells of each of these species are examined directly in infected tissue in the rabbit tibia model infection, their cell wall thickness is often much increased and very irregular around the circumference of the cell, their cell size is often increased, and their septation patterns are often severely deranged. All of these alterations in cell wall structure occur in the absence of antibiotics, and we suggest that they may be an expression of phenotypic plasticity in response to altered environmental conditions such as specific nutrient limitations, the presence of antibacterial factors, and growth of the cells on hard surfaces such as rabbit bone or plastic catheters. Some of these specific cell wall alterations are also seen when staphylococcal cells are exposed, in vitro or in vivo, to antibiotics such as clindamycin, but we emphasize that growth in tissue alone is sufficient for their induction.
Design and performance of a new medium for the quantitative recovery of Staphylococcus aureus from recreational waters.	Several reports have suggested that staphylococci, and especially Staphylococcus aureus, are useful indicators of pollution of recreational waters. The lack of a selective, accurate and reliable recovery system for the quantification of Staph. aureus from water has been the principal obstacle to the evaluation of their use as indicators. In this study, several inhibitory substances and different nutrient sources have been evaluated for the formulation of a new selective medium. The medium designed, BFR-0 agar, recovers more than 75% of staphylococci and allows Staph. aureus to be identified.
The capability of silicone prostheses to promote postoperative infections. An in-vitro study]	The authors have quantitatively evaluated and compared in vitro the Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis strain adhesiveness on various types of silicone used in surgery. The results show that there are some adhesiveness differences between the two assayed strains (S. epidermidis adhesiveness > S. aureus adhesiveness) and among silicone types (adhesiveness on soft silicones > adhesiveness on hard silicones). However all silicones are suitable substrata for in vitro bacterial adhesion.
Iron chelator, exopolysaccharide and protease production in Staphylococcus epidermidis: a comparative study of the effects of specific growth rate in biofilm and planktonic culture.	The growth rate of Staphylococcus epidermidis was controlled for populations growing as a biofilm and perfused with supplemented, simple-salts medium. Production of iron chelators, extracellular protease and exopolysaccharide (EPS) by these populations was assessed as a function of specific growth rate and compared to that by planktonic populations grown in the same medium within a chemostat. Perfused biofilms increased their iron chelator and protease production with increasing growth rate. Chemostat populations decreased their production of iron chelators with increasing growth rate, whilst showing much enhanced production of proteases at intermediate growth rates (mu 0.15-0.25 h-1). Production of iron chelator and protease was generally 2-50 times higher by biofilms than by planktonic populations. EPS production was low and relatively unaffected by growth rate for the chemostat cultures (about 0.2 micrograms per unit cell mass) but high for the attached biofilms, particularly at slow growth rates (about 4 micrograms per unit cell mass). EPS production within the biofilms decreased markedly with increasing growth rate. At growth rates of 0.35 h-1 and above, the levels of EPS for biofilms and planktonic populations were equivalent. The results of this study clearly indicate that growth as a biofilm markedly influences extracellular virulence factor production by S. epidermidis.
Treatment of vascular graft infection by in situ replacement with a rifampin-bonded gelatin-sealed Dacron graft.	The purpose of this study was to treat an established prosthetic vascular graft infection by in situ replacement with a rifampin-bonded gelatin-sealed Dacron graft in an animal model.
Development of bacterial biofilms on silastic catheter materials in peritoneal dialysis fluid.	A modified Robbins' device was used to monitor the growth of bacteria associated with clinical peritonitis in peritoneal dialysis fluid. To simulate bacterial colonization and biofilm formation on peritoneal catheters, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Escherichia coli were allowed to adhere to silastic disks and were then grown in fresh or used dialysis fluid. Adherent bacteria formed microcolonies and biofilms on silastics within 4 to 24 hours. Our data showed that colonization of the silastic disks was related to the quantity of bacteria and there were significant differences between the growth of adherent bacteria in fresh and used dialysis fluid. Adherent S epidermidis and P aeruginosa grew better in dialysis fluids than adherent E coli. These results suggest that S epidermidis and P aeruginosa are more likely to colonize silastic catheters and to cause catheter-related peritonitis in peritoneal dialysis patients than E coli.
A natural history study of experimental Staphylococcus epidermidis endophthalmitis.	The purpose of this study was to find a "threshold" quantity of organisms (i.e. inoculum) to produce clinical endophthalmitis and determine the natural course of intravitreal bacterial counts following inoculation in a rabbit model of Staphylococcus epidermidis endophthalmitis. S. epidermidis endophthalmitis was induced experimentally in 18 New Zealand white rabbits. Eyes were injected with 2.0 x 10(3) (Group I: n = 3), 2.0 x 10(4) (Group II: n = 3), 3.0 x 10(5) (Group III: n = 3), 3.0 x 10(6) (Group IV: n = 3), 3.0 x 10(7) (Group V: n = 3), or 3.0 x 10(8) (Group VI: n = 3) organisms. Serial quantitative bacterial cultures (colony counts) were performed on the vitreous every eight hours for 9 days. All eyes in Groups I and II became culture negative by 24-64 hours post-inoculation (PI). All eyes in Groups III-VI remained culture positive [approximately 600-4000 colony forming units (CFU) per cm3] at 48 to 72 hours PI and were stable for the remainder of the nine day study period. Previous work suggests that the host's inflammatory response is more important than had been recognized. Previous rabbit models of infectious endophthalmitis are known to become culture negative ("autosterilized") despite continued intraocular inflammation. This rabbit model demonstrates a "threshold" of infection where the host's immune response is overwhelmed and "autosterilization" does not occur. When inoculated with 3.0 x 10(5) or greater S. epidermidis organisms of this strain, continued active bacterial replication can now be studied in the rabbit.
The effects of electric current on bacteria colonising intravenous catheters.	The effect of a direct electric current (10 microA) on the growth of Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Proteus mirabilis was investigated. When the ends of negatively-charged intravascular catheters were placed in nutrient agar seeded with bacteria, circular zones of inhibition of bacterial growth were observed around the catheters. The zones ranged from 6 to 16 mm in diameter according to the organism under test. Zones of inhibition were not produced around positively-charged catheters. Bacteria colonising the surfaces of catheters were similarly affected by the application of a 10 microA electric current. A negative electric current applied to colonised catheters for 4 to 24 h significantly reduced the number of adherent viable organisms as compared to controls. The results demonstrated that a constant electric current of low amperage might be used to reduce bacterial colonisation of intravascular catheters. This may offer a novel means of protecting catheters and other prosthetic devices from associated sepsis in vivo.
Microbiological examination of bandage soft contact lenses used in laser refractive surgery.	Disposable soft contact lenses are known to be colonized by bacteria and play a key role in bacterial keratitis pathogenesis. Such lenses, commonly used after laser refractive surgery procedures in which postoperative corneal infiltrations are sometimes observed, are potentially a substrate for bacterial inoculation. This study evaluates the extent of such a contamination.
