Macrophages produce somnogenic and pyrogenic muramyl peptides during digestion of staphylococci.	Muramyl peptides have a variety of biological effects in mammals, including enhancement of the immune response, sleep, and body temperature. Although mammals lack biosynthetic pathways for muramyl peptides, they are found in mammals and are well known as components of bacterial cell walls. This suggests that phagocytic mammalian cells digest bacterial cell walls and produce biologically active muramyl peptides. Staphylococcal cell walls were radioactively labeled during growth of the bacteria. During the digestion of these radiolabeled bacteria, murine bone marrow macrophages produced low-molecular-weight substances that coeluted chromatographically with the radioactive cell wall marker. Further separation of these substances using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography resulted in the isolation of substances with high specific biological activity. Intracerebroventricular injection of rabbits with these substances induced an increase in slow-wave sleep and body temperature and a suppression of rapid-eye-movement sleep. The characteristics of the biological responses and the chromatographic behavior of the active components are consistent with those of muramyl peptides. The ability of macrophages to tailor muramyl peptides from peptidoglycan may provide an amplification step for the immune response. Muramyl peptides released by macrophages may also act as mediators for various facets of the acute phase response elicited by bacterial infections such as fever and sleep.
Application of gas-liquid chromatographic analysis of cellular fatty acids for species identification and typing of coagulase-negative staphylococci.	Gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) of bacterial cellular fatty acids was used to analyze 264 isolates of coagulase-negative staphylococci, of which 178 were Staphylococcus epidermidis. The presence and amounts of individual fatty acids were determined to generate fatty acid profiles for each of the seven coagulase-negative species tested. The fatty acid profiles were then analyzed by computerized correlation and cluster analysis to calculate mean correlation values between isolates belonging to the same or different species, as well as to establish cluster analysis dendrograms. These data ultimately allowed the clustering of individual samples into species-specific clusters. Species identification by the GLC clustering was highly consistent with species identification by biochemical assays; the results were similar in 92.4% of the cases. The GLC profile correlation analysis was further used to analyze multiple blood isolates from 60 patients in order to determine the usefulness of this methodology in establishing identity, as well as differences, between consecutive patient isolates. The correlation between those multiple S. epidermidis isolates determined to be identical by standard techniques (such as the antibiogram, biotype, and plasmid profile) was significantly (P less than 0.001) higher than that between random isolates of the same species. The correlation coefficient was greater than 97 for 40 (97.6%) of the 41 patients with multiple identical blood isolates, compared with less than 95 in all 19 (100.0%) patients with multiple nonidentical isolates. The successful use of the computerized GLC analysis in this study demonstrated its appropriate application for species identification and typing of coagulase-negative staphylococci.
Typing of coagulase-negative staphylococci isolated from foreign body infections.	Twenty-six coagulase-negative staphylococci isolated from patients with various foreign body infections were characterised using different typing systems. Staphylococcus epidermidis was the most predominant species found. Phage typability was below 50% in all strains. The strains showed differences in surface properties--relative hydrophobicity or hydrophilicity--and ability to adhere to polystyrene with subsequent slime production (adherence tube test). Protein and polypeptide profiles as well as plasmid profiles demonstrated the heterogeneity of the strains. Thus, this preliminary study indicates that all coagulase-negative staphylococci of human origin may become involved in foreign body infections.
A model for the three-dimensional structure of peptidoglycan in staphylococci.	Although the monomeric units of peptidoglycan in Staphylococcus aureus and other staphylococci are well known, the complete structure of the peptidoglycan has not been elucidated. The peptidoglycan monomeric unit may be divided into three parts: (1) glycan chain piece, consisting of N-acetylglucosaminyl-N-acetylmuramic acid; (2) connecting peptide extending from L-alanine to the alpha-amino group of L-lysine; (3) peptide chain piece, consisting of D-alanine, the remainder of L-lysine not included in the connecting peptide, and pentaglycine (S. aureus) or mixed glycine and serine residues (other staphylococci) attached to the epsilon amino group of lysine. The deformation of cross wall into hemisphere in the course of cell division, the distensibility of peptidoglycan, and the appearance of circular (? spiral) lines in the cross wall and on the surface of the newly-formed hemisphere are clues to the structure of peptidoglycan. In the proposed model, cross wall is formed as a linear spiral with 20 turns extending in a plane from periphery to center of the cell. During cell division, the cross wall is bisected. The cross wall spiral becomes a spiral forming the peripheral wall of a new hemisphere. The width of the spiral on the cell surface is maintained by rigid glycan chains and by covalent bonds linking turns of the spiral. The length of the spiral is about 30 times the diameter of the cell. Flexible polypeptide sheets consisting of parallel polypeptide chains run along the length of the spiral. Individual polypeptides contain an average of ten peptide chain pieces. The glycan chain is a helix with two disaccharide residues per turn; consequently consecutive connecting peptides project in opposite directions and are perpendicular both to the glycan chain and to the peptide chain. In cross wall, hydrogen bonding between polypeptide chains enables the polypeptide sheet to transmit changes in tension. The deformation of cross wall into peripheral wall requires doubling of the external surface area of the peptidoglycan. A change in the angle of the glycan chain with respect to the peptide chain results in an increase of the distance between peptide chains, causing the doubling of surface area. Implications of the model include explanations for the initiation of cell division and for the existence of osmotically growth-dependent staphylococci.
Correlation of bacteria lipid composition with antibiotic resistance.	The correlation of bacterial lipid composition with antibiotic resistance was investigated with particular emphasis on those organisms in which resistance may be related to membrane or envelope structure or function, as in resistance to tetracyclines and polymyxin. Chloroform-methanol-extractable lipids, phosphatidyl ethanolamine fractions, and both fatty acids of these lipid fractions and total fatty acids were studied by using thin-layer chromatography, gas chromatography, and infrared spectroscopy. Consistent quantitative differences were found between the fatty acid compositions of sensitive and resistant strains. Most notable was the fact that, in gram-negative organisms, resistant strains showed decreases in cyclopropane acids as compared with sensitive strains. These changes were found to be inherent in the strains and not due to growth stage or culture age. No significant qualitative differences were noted. In contrast, no such variation in fatty acid content was observed in penicillin-sensitive and resistant strains of gram-positive cocci. As significant alterations of fatty acid composition were noted in gram-negative strains resistant to antibiotics, we suggest that resistance is correlated to membrane or envelope lipid composition.
Respiratory activities associated with mesosomal vesicles and protoplast membranes of Staphylococcus aureus.	Analysis of oxidase and dehydrogenase activities, cytochrome content of mesosomal vesicles, and protoplast membranes showed that the respiratory chain in Staphylococcus aureus is associated predominantly with the protoplast membranes.
Lipoteichoic acid localization in mesosomal vesicles of Staphylococcus aureus.	Mesosomal vesicles and plasma membranes of Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 6538P have been prepared and examined for the presence of lipoteichoic acid. Lipids were first removed by treatment with pyridine-acetic acid-butanol (22:31:100, vol/vol/vol) and chloroform-methanol (2:1, vol/vol). Subsequently, lipoteichoic acid was removed with 40% phenol in water. The lipoteichoic acid from mesosomal vesicles was characterized by (i) equimolar glycerol and phosphate, (ii) alanine upon hydrolysis (2 N NH(4)OH, 18 h, 22 C), and (iii) fatty acids, diglycerol triphosphate, glycerol monophosphate, and glycerol diphosphate upon alkaline hydrolysis (1 N NaOH, 3h, 100 C). The plasma membranes contained no lipoteichoic acid. The presence in mesosomal vesicles of 18% of the dry weight as lipoteichoic acid and its absence from plasma membranes provide the first major chemical differences between these organelles. A study of the lipoteichoic acid content in various fractions of the cell showed that the mesosomal vesicles were the major and probably the sole site for the localization of the lipoteichoic acid in these organisms. A new method for the preparation of mesosomes in increased yields is reported. A theory for the control of cell division involving lipoteichoic acid and the mesosome is proposed.
Extraction, characterization, and cellular localization of the lipids of Staphylococcus aureus.	Satisfactory extraction and assay procedures have been developed for the lipids of Staphylococcus aureus. The following lipids have been characterized in detail: the vitamin K(2), which is shown to exist as isoprenologues with side chains of 35, 40, and 45 carbon atoms; monoglucosyldiglyceride and diglucosyldiglyceride, which account for all the carbohydrate in the lipid extracts; the lysyl ester of phosphatidyl glycerol, phosphatidyl glycerol, and cardiolipin, which account for 98% of the phosphate in the lipid extract. The extraction procedure removes 98% of the total bacterial fatty acids. Acidification of the medium before harvest and refluxing in isopropanol are critical in the extraction procedure for the maximal recovery of lysyl-phosphatidyl glycerol and the glucolipids. The lipids have been shown to be a part of the same membrane as the respiratory pigments.
Identification of a fourth staphylococcal enterotoxin, enterotoxin D.	A fourth staphylococcal enterotoxin was identified serologically with antiserum to the very crude enterotoxic products of growth of a strain which also produces enterotoxin C, and then with antiserum to the considerably purified enterotoxic antigen of a strain which produces only the new enterotoxin. The identification of this antigen as enterotoxin D was based on the following observations. It was produced by strains which do not produce enterotoxins A, B, or C; it was absent in the growth products of nonenterotoxigenic strains; when appreciably purified, it was associated with emetic activity in the cat, and its biological activity was neutralized only by antisera containing its specific antibody and not by antibodies to enterotoxins A, B, and C. Staphylococcal strain 494 (ATCC 23235) was selected as the prototype strain. The production of this enterotoxin alone and together with enterotoxin A by strains of food-poisoning origin indicates that its role in food poisoning is second in frequency only to that of enterotoxin A. The incidence of production of enterotoxins A, B, C, and D, and of unidentified cat emetic substances by strains from several source categories, is presented.
Analysis of staphylococcal enterotoxin B by the polyacrylamide electrophoresis technique.	The electrophoretic mobility of enterotoxin B was investigated through the use of the disc electrophoresis technique. Ideal patterns were developed with a 7.5% acrylamide gel system (pH 4.3). The toxin can be separated and identified from other complex proteins such as serum or suspect samples of foods by this technique. The technique can be used as an assay method for the toxin as well as to elucidate physical changes in the toxin due to temperature. The method should not be considered exclusive for enterotoxin B.
Beta hemolysin: a persistent impurity in preparations of staphylococcal nuclease and enterotoxin.	Purified staphylococcal nuclease and enterotoxin B from several sources contained beta hemolysin whose physicochemical resemblances to the other two proteins make its elimination difficult.
Resistance to penicillin in mutants of a penicillinase-negative organism, Staphylococcus aureus H.	Penicillin-resistant mutants of Staphylococcus aureus H were similar to the parent in their response to penicillin though proportionately more penicillin was required for a given effect. The mutants did not inactivate penicillin. Most of the penicillin-binding sites (presumed to be murein transpeptidase molecules) bound penicillin rapidly when exposed to a very low concentration of penicillin (0.1 mug/ml), and yet the mutants retained some functional murein transpeptidase even in the presence of 500 mug of penicillin per ml. An hypothesis based on (i) functional versus nonfunctional transpeptidase molecules and (ii) variations in accessibility to penicillin can explain these findings.
Further studies on the glycerol teichoic acid of walls of Staphylococcus lactis I3. Location of the phosphodiester groups and their susceptibility to hydrolysis with alkali.	1. The teichoic acid from walls of Staphylococcus lactis I3 is readily degraded in dilute alkali. 2. Degradation proceeds by selective hydrolysis of that phosphodiester group attached to an alcoholic hydroxyl group of the N-acetylglucosamine and gives a repeating unit in high yield. 3. Further studies on a different repeating unit isolated by partial acid hydrolysis have shown that the glycerol diphosphate is attached to the 4-hydroxyl group of the N-acetylglucosamine and not to the 3-hydroxyl group as was proposed earlier. 4. The susceptibility towards hydrolysis by alkali of other structural types of teichoic acid has been examined and found to vary markedly according to their structure.
Bactericidal substance from Staphylococcus aureus. Biological properties.	A bactericidal substance previously isolated from phage type 71 Slaphylococcus aureus has been further identified and characterized. Staphylococci belonging to phage type 71 produce the substance in higher titers than staphylococci lysed by other phages in group II in addition to phage 71. Other staphylococci do not produce the bactericidal substance. The bactericidal substance shares several of the properties of bacteriocins but differs from this group of antibiotic substances in some respects. A combination of ammonium sulfate fractionation and gel filtration on a Sephadex G-100 column resulted in considerable degree of purification of the bactericidal substance. The substance is a previously unrecognized product of S. aureus and is distinct from other extracellular products of this organism.
The structure and possible function of the glycolipid from Staphylococcus lactis I3.	1. The total lipid was extracted from Staphylococcus lactis I3 with chloroform-methanol mixtures and the glycolipid component was isolated by chromatography on silicic acid. 2. Saponification yielded a non-crystalline glycoside for which the structure O-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-(1-->6)-O-beta-d-glucopyranosyl-(1-->1)-d-glycerol has been established by chemical degradations and by comparison with synthetic material. 3. The role of the glycosyl diglycerides in bacterial membranes is discussed.
