Surgical treatment of the spontaneous spinal epidural abscess.	Seven cases of spontaneous epidural abscess are reviewed. Three patients had posterior abscesses and no evidence of vertebral body osteomyelitis. These patients had excellent outcomes with laminectomies and antibiotics. Because of significant vertebral destruction, two patients with vertebral osteomyelitis required posterior fixation after laminectomy. Two other patients with vertebral osteomyelitis had complete destruction of the vertebral body and required anterior decompression and fusion in addition to posterior fixation. In the four patients with vertebral osteomyelitis, morbidity was high, reflecting their age and significant medical problems. This review supports the contention that medically stable patients with posterior epidural abscesses can be treated with laminectomy and antibiotics with little risk of progressive instability. The proper surgical treatment of anterior epidural abscesses secondary to osteomyelitis requires knowledge about the amount of destruction of the supporting columns, the amount of neural compression secondary to the purulence, and the patient's general medical condition.
Nontraumatic aneurysms affecting crural arteries: case report and review of the literature.	Aneurysms involving the infrapopliteal arteries are rare, with most cases being attributed to a previous traumatic event. Mycotic aneurysms in this location are even more uncommon. Owing to their infrequency, these aneurysms represent a difficult diagnostic challenge. We present a case of a symptomatic anterior tibial artery aneurysm in a 59-year-old male with a medical history significant only for an episode of bacterial endocarditis, subsequently requiring an aortic valve replacement. Surgical repair was performed with a popliteal to anterior tibial bypass with a reversed saphenous vein graft. The patient's recovery was uneventful. We also reviewed the literature on this type of aneurysm to assess the incidence, etiology, options for treatment, and outcomes.
Jugular pacing lead extraction with laser sheath: a case report.	Over the past 20 years, the number of patients with pacemakers (PM) or implantable cardioverter defibrillators has risen markedly; consequently, an increasing number of lead-removal procedures have become necessary. A 64-year-old woman presenting with an infected device pocket and positive bacterial cultures (Staphylococcus aureus) was admitted to our department for lead removal; in 1991, she underwent VVI PM implantation for atrioventricular II degree Mobitz 1 block, and a unipolar lead was introduced via the left jugular vein. The procedure was performed in our Electrophysiology Lab with a cardiac surgeon on standby, using an excimer laser system emitting the energy at the tip of a flexible, fibre-optic 12 F sheath, developed by Spectranetics, Inc., Colorado Springs, CO, USA.
Pyogenic infection of the sacroiliac joint. Case reports and review of the literature.	Three cases of pyogenic sacroiliitis are described, and the English literature from 1878 to 1990 reviewed, for a total of 166 cases. In 1 patient the source of infection was identified at the site of an intravenous line; 1 patient had 2 risk factors for developing the disease (pregnancy and intravenous drug use); and a third patient had no source of infection and no associated risk factors. The diagnosis of pyogenic sacroiliitis was made in each patient by history, physical examination, and positive skeletal scintigraphy or computed tomography of the sacroiliac joint. The infectious agent causing septic arthritis was identified by fine-needle aspiration of the sacroiliac joint under fluoroscopic guidance. Two of the 3 patients also had an open biopsy of the sacroiliac joint--one to confirm the organism causing septic arthritis, and the other for surgical drainage of the infected sacroiliac joint. Cultures from all 3 patients grew organisms uncommon for this disease, and all were treated for 6 weeks with intravenous antibiotics. In all patients pain diminished after treatment. Pyogenic sacroiliitis is a relatively rare condition (1-2 cases reported/year) that may be clinically difficult to diagnose unless the clinician is familiar with the disease. A prompt diagnosis can prevent significant morbidity and reduce serious complication. Major predisposing factors include intravenous drug use, trauma, or an identifiable focus of infection elsewhere, but 44% of patients have no predisposing or associated factors identified. Most patients present with an acute febrile illness with pain in the buttocks and pain on movement that stresses the affected sacroiliac joint. There is no specific blood test which points to the diagnosis of pyogenic sacroiliitis, although the erythrocyte sedimentation rate may be greater than 100 mm/hr. The diagnostic procedure of choice is bone scan with attention to the early perfusion phase, which usually localizes the affected sacroiliac joint. Unilateral involvement is the rule. In patients whose blood cultures fail to reveal a causative organism, fluoroscopic guided fine-needle aspiration of the sacroiliac joint under general anesthesia may help to identify the organism. If all cultures are negative, open biopsy of the sacroiliac joint may be required. Open biopsy should also be done if sequestration or an abscess is formed, or if the patient fails to respond to antibiotic therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Impact of newer generation multidetector computed tomography on the diagnosis of abscesses in the head and neck.	To understand how newer generation multidetector computed tomographic (NGCT) scanner technology (≥ 16 slices) has affected the imaging characteristics of head and neck abscesses.
Mycotic aneurysms of the aorta: radiologic features.	Four patients with a total of six mycotic aneurysms of the aorta were examined with computed tomography (CT) after intravenous contrast material enhancement, and with abdominal or thoracic aortography. In the three patients with mycotic aneurysms involving the abdominal aorta, CT scans showed a vascular paraaortic structure without calcified walls adjacent to a nondilated aorta, and a large non-contrast-enhanced retroperitoneal mass representing inflammatory tissue and blood from a contained aortic rupture. A CT scan of one aneurysm of the thoracic aorta demonstrated an enhanced saccular mass originating from the aorta without paraspinal component. In three of four patients, the CT findings were corroborated by aortographic evidence of an eccentric aneurysmal sac in an atypical location for atheromatous disease. In four patients with clinical manifestations suggesting mycotic aneurysm of the aorta, a combination of CT and angiographic imaging provided accurate diagnostic information for planning adequate and early surgical treatment.
"Missing" femoral condyle: an unusual sequela to neonatal osteomyelitis and septic arthritis.	Growth deformities of the distal femur and unusual gait disturbances were observed in four girls who had had neonatal osteomyelitis and septic arthritis. In each case apparent absence or hypoplasia of one of the femoral condyles, as seen on plain radiographs, was associated with marked genu varum or genu valgum. Arthrography showed the apparently missing condyle to be present in a cartilaginous form, with preservation of the articular surfaces. Based on these findings, surgical treatment was limited to corrective osteotomy.
Results of surgical therapy of bacterial sacroiliitis with primary arthrodesis]	Surgical treatment of pyogenic infections of the sacroiliac joint is indicated in cases of ineffective conservative treatment, abscess formation, septicemia, and neurological deficits. Between 1983 and 1990 in nine patients surgical treatment was performed for pyogenic sacroiliitis under this criteria. The surgical procedure included joint debridement, primary arthrodesis of the sacroiliac joint using a autologous bone graft, antibiotic therapy and postoperative immobilisation. Follow-up examination of 8 patients in average 47 months postoperatively revealed excellent functional and roentgenological results in 6 patients. Two patients suffered only from mild low-back pain, none of the eight patients demonstrated signs of a recurrent infection, one patient died due to complications of a long-lasting preoperative septicemia. Regarding these postoperative follow-up results surgical therapy including primary sacroiliac arthrodesis should be early considered, because this treatment has a low complication rate and the surgical technique is easy to perform and results are excellent or good in most of the patients.
Pyogenic spondylitis in the interarticular portion of the vertebral arch. Case report on primary dorsal spondylitis]	The manifestation of a pyogenic spondylitis only in the dorsal part of a spinal segment is very rare and causes even more diagnostic problems than the typically anterior located spondylitis. We are reporting on a patient with known isthmic spondylolisthesis who developed the inflammatory process primarily in the intervertebral joint and in the interarticular portion. For a few months the cause of his complaints was thought to be due to spondylolisthesis till radiological adn laboratory methods lead to the correct diagnosis and adequate therapy.
