Coagulase-positive Staphylococci and Staphylococcus aureus in food products marketed in Italy.	Staphylococcus aureus is a very common organism capable of producing several enterotoxins (SEs) that cause intoxication symptoms of varying intensity in humans when ingested through contaminated food. This paper reports the results of an investigation on the presence of Coagulase-Positive Staphylococci (CPS) and S. aureus in several food products marketed in Italy and on food contact surface swabs sampled from the food industry. A total of 11,384 samples were examined and 1971 of them (17.3%) were found to contain CPS. The assays performed on 541 CPS strains led to the identification of 537 S. aureus strains on which characterization of type A, B, C and D staphylococcal enterotoxins (SEA, SEB, SEC and SED) was performed. A total of 298 S. aureus strains (55.5%) produced one or more SEs: 33.9% of the strains produced SEC, 26.5% SEA, 20.5% SEA+SED, 13.4% SED, 2.7% SEB, 1.7% SEA+SEB, 0.7% SEC+SED and 0.3% produced SEA+SEC and SEB+SEC. The investigation highlighted that these organisms are very common and constitute a potential risk for consumers' health.
Antimicrobial susceptibility of Staphylococcus aureus and characterization of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus isolated from bovine mastitis in Korea.	A total of 402 Staphylococcus aureus isolates from bovine mastitis milk collected during 2003-2009 in Korea were tested for susceptibility to 20 antimicrobial agents. All S. aureus isolates were susceptible to 11 of 20 antimicrobials tested; no resistance was observed against pirlimycin, telithromycin, novobiocin, penicillin/novobiocin, quinupristin/dalfopristin, clindamycin, rifampin, ciprofloxacin, trimethprim/sulfamethoxazol, vancomycin, and linezolid. Over 66% of the S. aureus isolates were resistant to penicillin. Resistance was also seen for gentamicin (11.9%), erythromycin (7.7%), methicillin (oxacillin and cefoxitin, 6.2%), and tetracycline (4.2%). No noticeable change was observed in penicillin, gentamicin, and erythromycin resistance over the 7-year period. Tetracycline resistance appeared to decrease consistently, whereas methicillin resistance was observed from 2005. About 2.7% (11/402) were resistant to three or more antimicrobials. Genotyping of the 17 methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) isolated from each cow revealed two staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) types (IV and IVa), three spa types (t286, t324, and untypable), and two sequence types (ST1 and ST72). Eleven of 17 (64.7%) MRSA strains belonged to SCCmec IVa-t324-ST72. The rest of strains belonged to SCCmec IVa-t286-ST1 (n = 3) and SCCmec IV-untypable-ST72 (n = 3). None of the MRSA carried the Panton-Valentine leukocidin gene. These characteristics are the same as those found in community-acquired (CA) MRSA strains prevalent in humans in Korea. Three pulsed-field gel electrophoresis types (A-C) were observed among the 17 MRSA strains examined, and 14 strains belonged to the same pulsed-field gel electrophoresis pattern regardless of their geographical origin and year of isolation. The results of this study provide evidence of CA-MRSA infection in dairy cattle for the first time in Korea.
Characterization of toxin genes and antimicrobial susceptibility of Staphylococcus aureus isolates from Louisiana retail meats.	Staphylococcus aureus is a leading cause of food poisoning worldwide due to the production of heat-stable enterotoxins. Recently, the isolation of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) from food animals and retail meats raised additional food safety concerns. In this study, we characterized 152 S. aureus isolates, including 22 MRSA recovered from Louisiana retail pork and beef meats, for the prevalence of nine enterotoxin and four other exotoxin genes by polymerase chain reaction and antimicrobial susceptibility testing by broth microdilution. Overall, 85% of S. aureus isolates were positive for at least one of six enterotoxin genes identified and 66% harbored two to four enterotoxin genes. The two most predominant ones were seg and sei (66% each), followed by seh (20%), sed (15%), sej (13%), and sea (1%). No isolates harbored enterotoxin genes seb, sec, or see, the toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 gene tst, or the exfoliative toxin genes eta or etb. Three MRSA isolates were the only ones harboring Panton-Valentine leucocidin. Resistances were common to penicillin (71%), ampicillin (68%), and tetracycline (67%), followed by erythromycin (30%), clindamycin (18%), oxacillin with 2% NaCl (14%), ciprofloxacin (13%), levofloxacin (13%), gentamicin (3%), quinupristin/dapfopristin (3%), chloramphenicol (2%), and moxifloxacin (1%). Multidrug resistance was commonly observed among MRSA isolates and S. aureus isolates from pork. This study demonstrated that S. aureus isolates found in Louisiana retail pork and beef meats possessed various enterotoxin genes and antimicrobial resistance profiles. Therefore, vigilant food safety practice needs to be implemented for people who handle raw meat products to prevent foodborne infections and intoxications due to S. aureus contamination.
Animal experimental studies of passive oral immunization against staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB)]	Intoxications by S. aureus enterotoxins are predominant in our country, together with enteric infections by Salmonella spp. For lack of a specific therapy the possibility was examined to neutralize orally provided toxin in vivo. For this purpose before and after the intoxication, respectively, antitoxin and normal rabbit serum as a control were also applied per os. In extensive trials SPF-mice were used as a model in spite of their insensitivity to staphylococcal toxins even with 10000 times the emetic dose for monkeys. By serological means, the rate of free toxin in stomach, intestinal contents and fecal matter after and before application of antiserum was identified as an indicator for the neutralization of the toxin in vivo. As toxin, S. aureus enterotoxin B (SEB) was used which could be identified in the samples up to three hours after oral feeding. Antiserum was obtained by immunization of rabbits with toxoid. The application of antiserum one hour after intoxication resulted in an average reduction of free toxin in the intestine of 87,5 and 86,5%, (10 independent trials) one and two hours, respectively after serum administration. In contrast, administration of antiserum one hour before experimental intoxication did not produce statistically confirmed differences between the experimental and the control animals.
Effect of three commercial starters on growth of Staphylococcus aureus and enterotoxins (A-D) and thermonuclease production in broth.	The growth of four enterotoxigenic Staphylococcus aureus strains was partially inhibited by three commercial starters used in the meat sausage industry when grown in APT broth at 30 degrees C statically. Starter SP318 (a mixture of selected strains of Lactobacillus sake, Pediococcus pentosaceus and Staphylococcus xylosus) showed the most inhibitory activity. Staphylococcal enterotoxins (A, B, C1 and D) synthesis was totally inhibited by the growth of the three starters, whereas staphylococcal thermonuclease production was partially inhibited in mixed cultures.
