Typing of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus with an M13 repeat probe.	A bacteriophage M13 tandem repeat has been used to probe EcoRI digested genomic DNA of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The patterns generated were found to be useful in typing MRSA and generally confirmed the relationships that had previously been recognized in other studies based on antimicrobial resistance and plasmid profiles. The epidemic MRSA of London hospitals (EMRSA) and the majority of the epidemic MRSA of eastern Australian hospitals (EA MRSA) gave the same pattern. However, two isolates previously classified as EA MRSA gave a different pattern and a third another pattern. One isolate from Dublin, two isolates from Nuneaton and two isolates from Singapore gave the same pattern as the two EA MRSA. With the exception of the early or classic MRSA all the other isolates examined gave their own distinctive patterns. With one exception the classic MRSA belonged to a separate group. The exception was of particular interest because it gave the same pattern as the majority of the EA MRSA. This suggests that there may be an evolutionary relationship between some of the classic MRSA and the EMRSA of London and the EA MRSA of Australia.
The two-component cell lysis genes holWMY and lysWMY of the Staphylococcus warneri M phage varphiWMY: cloning, sequencing, expression, and mutational analysis in Escherichia coli.	From the genome library of Staphylococcus warneri M, the two successive cell-lysis genes (holWMY and lytWMY) were cloned and characterized. The lytWMY gene encoded a protein (LysWMY), whose calculated molecular mass and pI were 54 kDa and 8.95, respectively. When overproduced in Escherichia coli, lysWMY directed a protein of 45 kDa (smaller than the predicted molecular mass), having N-terminal 13 residues identical with those predicted from DNA. Comparative analysis revealed that LysWMY significantly resembles the putative N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidases encoded by the staphylococcal phages phi11, 80 alpha, and Twort. Examination of modular organization of LysWMY identified three putative domains CHAP (for D-alanyl-glycyl endopeptidase), amidase (L-muramoyl-L-alanine amidase), and SH3 (cell wall recognition). Gene knockout analysis revealed that each of the two domains of CHAP and amidase was responsible for cell-lytic activity on a zymogram gel. Site-directed mutation of Cys29Ala, His92Ala, or Asn114Ala in the CHAP domain substantially reduced cell-lytic activity, suggesting that this Cys-His-Asn triad is crucial for the enzymatic function. On the other hand, the holWMY gene encoded a protein (HolWMY) with molecular mass and pI of 16 kDa and 4.36; this protein contained two potential transmembrane helices, resembling other predicted holins (a cytoplasmic membrane-disrupting protein) encoded by the S. aureus phage, phi11, 80 alpha, and Twort. Upon mitomycin C exposure of S. warneri M, a prophage (phiWMY) was induced and the virion was examined under electron microscopy. PCR amplification and sequencing revealed the presence of the holWMY-lysWMY genes in the phage genome.
Lytic activity of recombinant bacteriophage phi11 and phi12 endolysins on whole cells and biofilms of Staphylococcus aureus.	The recombinant phi11 endolysin hydrolyzed heat-killed staphylococci as well as staphylococcal biofilms. Cell wall targeting appeared to be a prerequisite for lysis of whole cells, and the combined action of the endopeptidase and amidase domains was necessary for maximum activity. In contrast, the phi12 endolysin was inactive and caused aggregation of the cells.
The SaPIs: mobile pathogenicity islands of Staphylococcus.	The SaPIs are 15- to 17-kb mobile pathogenicity islands in staphylococci. They usually carry two or more superantigens and are responsible for most superantigen-related human diseases, especially staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome. SaPIs are extremely common in Staphylococcus aureus, with all but one of the sequenced genomes containing one or more. The SaPIs have a highly conserved overall genome organization, parallel to that of typical temperate phages. Each occupies a specific chromosomal site from which it is induced to excise and replicate by one or more specific staphylococcal phages. Following replication, the SaPI DNA is efficiently encapsidated into infectious small-headed phage-like particles, resulting in extremely high transfer frequencies.
Molecular diversity within clonal complex 22 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus encoding Panton-Valentine leukocidin in England and Wales.	Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL)-positive methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) that are multi-locus sequence type clonal complex 22 (CC22) comprise a significant public health problem in the UK. In the present study we sought to determine the genetic diversity, and the respective patient demographics, among 47 PVL-MRSA with a CC22 pulsotype that occurred sporadically or in clusters in community and healthcare settings in eight of nine geographic regions in England and Wales between January 2005 and September 2007. Patient demographics and disease presentations were typical for PVL-S. aureus infections (mostly skin and soft tissue infections in individuals <40 years old); one patient with community-acquired pneumonia died. Although the isolates were closely genotypically related by spa typing and pulsed field gel electrophoresis, at least two variant groups were suggested. PCR detections demonstrated that the majority of the CC22 PVL-MRSA identified (n = 42; 89%) harboured SCCmecIVc, three had SCCmecIVd, one had SCCmecIV but was non-subtypeable, and one isolate harboured SCCmecV. At least three different PVL-encoding phages were detected: ФPVL, Ф108PVL and an unidentified icosahedral phage. Agar dilution MIC determinations showed that the CC22 PVL-MRSA identified were typically resistant to gentamicin and trimethoprim (43 of 47 isolates) and ciprofloxacin resistance was also noted in six isolates. In conclusion, the CC22 PVL-MRSA tested were geographically disseminated but highly genetically related. The observed variances in acquired elements (most notably SCCmec and PVL-encoding phages) suggested that CC22 PVL-MRSA in England and Wales have evolved on multiple occasions.
Wide host range and strong lytic activity of Staphylococcus aureus lytic phage Stau2.	In searching for an alternative antibacterial agent against multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, we have isolated and characterized a lytic staphylophage, Stau2. It possesses a double-stranded DNA genome estimated to be about 134.5 kb and a morphology resembling that of members of the family Myoviridae. With an estimated latency period of 25 min and a burst size of 100 PFU/infected cell, propagation of Stau2 in liquid culture gave a lysate of ca. 6 × 10(10) PFU/ml. It was stable at pH 5 to 13 in normal saline at room temperature for at least 4 weeks and at -85°C for more than 2 years, while 1 × 10(9) out of 2 × 10(12) PFU/ml retained infectivity after 36 months at 4°C. Stau2 could lyse 80% of the S. aureus isolates (164/205) obtained from hospitals in Taiwan, with complete lysis of most of the isolates tested within 3 h; however, it was an S. aureus-specific phage because no lytic infection could be found in the coagulase-negative staphylococci tested. Its host range among S. aureus isolates was wider than that of polyvalent phage K (47%), which can also lyse many other staphylococcal species. Experiments with mice demonstrated that Stau2 could provide 100% protection from lethal infection when a multiplicity of infection of 10 was administered immediately after a challenge with S. aureus S23. Considering these results, Stau2 could be considered at least as a candidate for topical phage therapy or an additive in the food industry.
Community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections]	Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) has long remained the typical exclusively nosocomial pathogen, allowing using beta-lactam agents as first line presumptive treatment for severe community-associated infections in which MRSA was not taken into account. The situation dramatically changed with the simultaneous emergence of several strains of community-acquired MRSA in Australia, Europe and in North America. Although these clones clearly emerged from independent ancestors, they present almost invariably with two remarkable features, rarely found in other MRSA clones: (i) methicillin-resistance genes are harboured on a small size staphylococcal cassette chromosome (SCCmec type IV); (ii) they are all transfected by a phage carrying Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL) genes. Since the early 2000, a specific clonal group, USA300, spread spectacularly all over North America. A great number of publications documented (i) the unprecedented success of its dissemination in many settings; (ii) its virulence, illustrated by the description of invasive diseases not encountered thus far with traditional clones of hospital-associated MRSA (e.g. necrotizing pneumonia in immunocompetent patients). In Europe, where community-acquired MRSA isolates mainly belong to the ST80 clonal group, its incidence has remained low, thus far. However, cautious surveillance and prompt responses are required if we are to avoid the public health scourge created by the emergence of community-associated MRSA in North America.
Elevated enterotoxin A expression and formation in Staphylococcus aureus and its association with prophage induction.	Staphylococcus aureus strains producing the bacteriophage-encoded staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA) were divided into two groups, high- and low-SEA-producing strains, based on the amount of SEA produced. After growth under favorable conditions in batch cultures, 10 of the 21 strains tested produced more than 1,000 ng/ml SEA, and 9 strains produced less than 10 ng/ml SEA; two enterotoxigenic strains, MRSA252 and Newman, produced intermediate levels of SEA (around 450 ng/ml). The differences in the production of SEA were found to be associated with the expression level of sea and whether the strains hosted the sea(1) or sea(2) version. Furthermore, differences in nucleotide sequence in the Siphoviridae phage region showed two clonal lineages of the high-SEA-producing strains. One of these lines was correlated with the capacity for a massive increase in SEA levels by prophage induction as demonstrated using mitomycin C (MC). This was also confirmed by the occurrence of additional sea expression, presumed to be initiated by a latent phage promoter located upstream of the endogenous sea promoter. Remarkably, the SEA level was increased up to 10-fold in some strains due to prophage induction. The low-SEA-producing group and the high-SEA-producing subgroup lacking phage-activated sea transcription showed no increase in SEA formation after the addition of MC. This study demonstrates that sea expression in enterotoxigenic strains is correlated with the clonal lineage of sea-carrying phages. The high-SEA-producing group, in particular the prophage-inducible sea(1) group, may be more relevant to staphylococcal food poisoning than the low-SEA-producing group, harboring mainly sea(2).
Transformation of a conditionally peptidoglycan-deficient mutant of Staphylococcus aureus with plasmid DNA.	A simple and reliable method for polyethylene glycol-induced plasmid transformation of a temperature-sensitive peptidoglycan-deficient mutant of Staphylococcus aureus is described. The procedure uses strains carrying the tofA372 mutation grown under conditions that yield osmotically fragile cells capable of efficient wall regeneration. The peptidoglycan-deficient cells were transformed with plasmids pE194 and pI258 at frequencies comparable with those obtained with protoplasts prepared with lysostaphin treatment. A readily portable tofA372 mutation was constructed by isolating an insertion of the erythromycin resistance transposon Tn551 adjacent to tofA372. tofA372 was shown by protoplast fusion and transformation analyses to be in the gene order hly-421-omega [Chr::Tn551]1059-tofA372-uraB232-omega [Chr::Tn916]1101-thrB106 on the chromosome of S. aureus NCTC 8325.
Conjugative transfer of staphylococcal antibiotic resistance markers in the absence of detectable plasmid DNA.	Eleven Staphylococcus aureus clinical isolates were tested for transfer of resistance markers by transduction and filter mating. The resistance markers of six of the strains could be transferred only by transduction; however, the five remaining strains transferred their resistance both by transduction and filter mating. The resistance markers that were cotransferred in filter matings (transfer of resistance to penicillin and streptogramin A was accompanied, in each case, by the transfer of one or more markers, i.e., resistance to aminoglycosides, cadmium, or tetracycline, depending on the donor) were not cotransduced. The filter mating transfers were recA independent and were observed with both Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis recipients. Experiments to elucidate the mechanism of transfer by filter mating suggested that conjugation requiring cell-to-cell contact may have been involved. These transfers occurred in the absence of detectable plasmid DNA.
Incompatibility between plasmids with independent copy control.	Incompatibility between autonomous plasmids has been attributed, for the most part, to interaction between plasmids' negative control systems and/or partitioning systems. In this report it is shown that indirectly regulated plasmids with non-interactive negative control systems are incompatible on the basis of their shared initiator protein. This principle was demonstrated for a family of Staphylococcus aureus plasmids whose copy number is regulated by inhibitory RNAs that control the production of a rate-limiting, trans-active, initiator protein. We have constructed a pair of plasmids that have the same regulation systems and different initiator proteins and another pair with different regulation systems and the same initiators. Both of these pairs of plasmids were shown to be incompatible.
Resistance transfer in mixed cultures of Staphylococcus aureus.	Transfer of resistance markers was regularly observed in mixed cultures of pairs of constructed strains of Staphylococcus aureus. This transfer was shown to be due to general transduction and required a lysogenic donor strain, carrying a transducing phage of serotype B and a transducible plasmid, and an acceptor strain without either strong restriction or an incompatible plasmid. Transfer was sometimes bidirectional when both strains carried a transducing phage. Unidirectional transfer occurred when the acceptor strain was immune. When the acceptor was sensitive to the donor phage, reversed transfer of a marker from the acceptor to the donor could take place. The kinetics of transfer are governed by the rate of phage production, the rate of phage adsorption and the frequency of transduction. A mathematical model has been developed to describe the interplay of these factors. The numbers of transductants observed in mixed cultures agreed with those expected from the model. Transfer was also observed in mixed cultures of constructed strains and wild-type strains. Transfer between wild-type strains is also possible, but was not observed in many combinations because of lack of transducing phage, strong restriction or other factors. Transfer was also observed in local lesions in mice infected with two strains and in mixtures inoculated on to human skin.
Phage-related conversion of enterotoxin A, staphylokinase and beta-toxin in Staphylococcus aureus.	The conversion of enterotoxin A, staphylokinase and beta-toxin in Staphylococcus aureus is related with lysogeny stage. Bacteriophages able to convert enterotoxin A were used for lysogenization of the standard NCTC 8325-4 strain. Lysogenic, enterotoxigenic derivatives of this strain were characterized. The conversion of enterotoxin A was obtained in 7 examined derivatives, the conversion of enterotoxin A and staphylokinase at the same time was obtained in one case and the loss of beta hemolysin production ability was observed in all of 8 examined derivatives of the NCTC 8325-4 standard strain.
