Preventing bacterial adhesion onto surfaces: the low-surface-energy approach.	Good-quality coatings prepared from poly(methylpropenoxyfluoroalkylsiloxane)s or poly(perfluoroacrylate)s are capable of inhibiting the bacterial colonisation of surfaces.
Very low frequency and small intensity electromagnetic and magnetic fields as an oecological factor.	The effect on microorganisms of electromagnetic and magnetic fields (EMF, MF), the frequency and intensity of which were similar to natural ones, was studied. They were found to influence the physiology of bacteria. Changes in the rate of proliferation of microbes, in their susceptibility to antibiotic the frequency of formation of recombinants and partial diploids during conjugation of colibacterium were observed during cultivation in these fields.
Mutation of sarA in Staphylococcus aureus limits biofilm formation.	Mutation of sarA resulted in a reduced capacity to form a biofilm in six of the eight Staphylococcus aureus strains we tested (UAMS-1, UAMS-601, SA113, SC-01, S6C, and DB). The exceptions were Newman, which formed a poor biofilm under all conditions, and RN6390, which consistently formed a biofilm only after mutation of agr. Mutation of agr in other strains had little impact on biofilm formation. In every strain other than Newman, including RN6390, simultaneous mutation of sarA and agr resulted in a phenotype like that observed with the sarA mutants. Complementation studies using a sarA clone confirmed that the defect in biofilm formation was due to the sarA mutation.
Involvement of G(i) proteins and Src tyrosine kinase in TNFalpha production induced by lipopolysaccharide, group B Streptococci and Staphylococcus aureus.	Previous studies have suggested that heterotrimeric G(i) proteins, Src tyrosine kinase and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3 Kinase) are involved in signaling events induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) leading to pro-inflammatory cytokines gene expression. To investigate the involvement of these mediators in Gram-positive bacteria induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, LPS (10 ng/ml), heat killed group B Streptococci (GBS 1 microg/ml) and Staphylococcus aureus (SA 10 microg/ml) were used to induce TNFalpha production in the murine J774A.1 macrophage (MØ) cell line and human promonocytic THP-1 cell line. Pertussis toxin (PTx, 1 microg/ml), an inhibitor of G(i) protein; pyrazolopyrimidine-2 (PP2, 1 or 25 microM), a Src tyrosine kinase inhibitor; and LY294002 (100 nM), an inhibitor of PI3 Kinase were used to examine the involvement of G(i), Src tyrosine kinase and PI3 Kinase, respectively, in TNFalpha production. In J774A.1 cells, pretreatment with PTx and PP2 attenuated TNFalpha production induced by LPS (60+/-9% and 81+/-11% inhibition, n=3, p<0.05, respectively), GBS (95+/-1% and 80+/-6% inhibition, n=3, p<0.05, respectively) and SA (51+/-18% and 68+/-16% inhibition, n=4, p<0.05, respectively). However, pretreatment with LY 294002 inhibited LPS induced TNFalpha production (82+/-13% inhibition, n=3, p<0.05), but did not inhibit GBS or SA induced TNFalpha production. In THP-1 cells, pretreatment with PTx, PP2 and LY 294002 inhibited TNFalpha production induced by LPS (84+/-3%, 59+/-12% and 84+/-4% inhibition, n=3, p<0.05, respectively) and SA (56+/-7%, 87+/-1% and 35+/-6% inhibition, n=3, p<0.05, respectively). These data support our hypothesis that G(i)-coupled and Src tyrosine kinase-coupled signaling pathways are involved in both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria induced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. However, unlike LPS, involvement of PI3 Kinase in Gram-positive bacteria induced signaling pathways are species dependent.
Recognition of apoptotic cells by human peripheral blood monocytes does not alter their ability to phagocytize and kill Staphylococcus aureus.	During acute inflammation, leukocyte infiltration is mostly neutrophilic, but later monocytes prevail. The majority of inflammatory cells, particularly neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs), become apoptotic at later stages of inflammation and are phagocytosed by neighboring cells, mostly by macrophages. Recently, it has been found that human peripheral blood monocytes also recognize apoptotic cells, which primes them to increased production of interleukin (IL)-10--a cytokine known to reduce phagocytes' ability to engulf and kill pathogens. Based on the above, we studied monocytes' ability to phagocytose and kill Staphylococcus aureus while in contact with apoptotic cells.
Quantification of Staphylococcus aureus adhesion to equine bone surfaces passivated with Plasmalyte and hyperimmune plasma.	To quantify the adhesion of Staphylococcus aureus to 4 equine bone surfaces passivated in a balanced polyionic solution (Plasmalyte) or hyperimmune equine plasma (Polymune plasma).
Fluid shear regulates the kinetics and receptor specificity of Staphylococcus aureus binding to activated platelets.	The interaction between surface components on the invading pathogen and host cells such as platelets plays a key role in the regulation of endovascular infections. However, the mechanisms mediating Staphylococcus aureus binding to platelets under shear remain largely unknown. This study was designed to investigate the kinetics and molecular requirements of platelet-S. aureus interactions in bulk suspensions subjected to a uniform shear field. Hydrodynamic shear-induced collisions augment platelet-S. aureus binding, which is further potentiated by platelet activation with stromal derived factor-1beta. Peak adhesion efficiency occurs at low shear (100 s(-1)) and decreases with increasing shear. The molecular interaction of platelet alpha(IIb)beta(3) with bacterial clumping factor A through fibrinogen bridging is necessary for stable bacterial binding to activated platelets under shear. Although this pathway is sufficient at low shear (</=400 s(-1)), the involvement of platelet gpIb and staphylococcal protein A through von Willebrand factor bridging is essential for optimal recruitment of S. aureus cells by platelets in the high shear regime. IgG plays an inhibitory role in the adhesion process, presumably by interfering with the binding of von Willebrand factor to staphylococcal protein A. This study demonstrates that platelet activation and a fluid-mechanical environment representative of the vasculature affect platelet-S. aureus cell-adhesive interactions pertinent to the process of S. aureus-induced bloodstream infections.
Factors affecting SP-A-mediated phagocytosis in human monocytic cell lines.	Surfactant protein-A enhances the phagocytosis and killing of many pathogens, although studying this effect in an assortment of models and different experimental protocols has sometimes yielded conflicting results. In this report, using the human THP-1 cell line as the primary phagocytic cell, we systematically examined several models where microspheres, Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli were used for targets. We found that SP-A derived from human lavage appeared to enhance phagocytosis by two different mechanisms; by SP-A binding of the target to enhance its recognition and subsequent phagocytosis and by a direct SP-A stimulatory effect on the phagocyte itself. Both SP-A mechanisms occurred with different targets in the same experimental system and the SP-A effects were qualitatively (but not quantitatively) comparable in several human cell lines (THP-1, U937, Mono-Mac-6). We also found that the SP-A effects were abrogated when SP-A was combined with surfactant lipids, but the lipids did not affect the basal level of phagocytosis or phagocytosis by mechanisms not involving SP-A. Moreover, the stimulatory effect of SP-A was pH-dependent and appeared to be independent of several other phagocytic mechanisms, including those mediated by Fc receptors and mannose receptor.
Single species biofilm-forming ability of root canal isolates on gutta-percha points.	The participation of bacterial biofilms in the over-filled gutta-percha points associated with refractory periapical periodontitis has recently been reported. This study investigated the initial biofilm-forming ability of root canal isolates (Enterococcus faecalis, Streptococcus sanguis, Strep. intermedius, Strep. pyogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Propionibacterium acnes, Porphyromonas gingivalis and Prevotella intermedia) on gutta-percha points in vitro. Each bacterial strain was suspended in 100% cell culture medium or in culture medium containing 4.5, 45 or 90% (vol/vol) serum. The bacterial suspensions were then co-incubated anaerobically with gutta-percha points for 7 d. The gutta-percha points were processed for scanning electron microscopic observation and examined for biofilm presence and thickness. E. faecalis, Strep. sanguis, Strep. intermedius, Strep. pyogenes and Staph. aureus biofilms were generated on the surfaces of the specimens incubated in culture medium supplemented with 45 or 90% (vol/vol) serum. The E. faecalis and Strep. sanguis biofilms were significantly thicker than those of Strep. intermedius, Strep. pyogenes and Staph. aureus. No biofilms were detected on the specimens incubated with F. nucleatum, Prop. acnes, Porph. gingivalis and Prev. intermedia. These findings suggest that Gram-positive facultative anaerobes have the ability to colonize and form extracellular matrices on gutta-percha points, while serum plays a crucial role in biofilm formation.
Retention of microbial cells in substratum surface features of micrometer and sub-micrometer dimensions.	Surfaces were produced with defined topographical features and surface chemistry. Silicon wafers, and wafers with attached nucleopore filters and quantifoils were coated with titanium using ion beam sputtering technology. Irregularly spaced, but regularly featured surface pits, sizes 0.2 and 0.5 microm, and regularly spaced pits with regular features (1 and 2 microm) diameter were produced. The smallest surface feature that could be successfully produced using this system was of diameter 0.2 microm. Ra, the average absolute deviation of the roughness irregularities from the mean line over one sampling length, Rz, the difference in height between the average of the five highest peaks, and the five lowest valleys along the assessment length of the profile and surface area values increased with surface feature size, with Ra values of 0.04-0.217 microm. There was no significant difference between the contact angles observed for smooth titanium surfaces with 0.2 and 0.5 microm features. However, a significant difference in contact angle was observed between the 1 and 2 microm featured surfaces (p<0.005). Substrata were used in microbial retention assays, using a range of unrelated, differently sized microorganisms. Staphylococcus aureus (cells 0.5-1 microm diameter) were retained in the highest numbers. S. aureus was well retained in the 0.5 microm sized pits and began to accumulate within larger surface features. Rod shaped Pseudomonas aeruginosa (1 microm x 3 microm) were preferentially retained, often end on, within the 1 microm surface features. Some daughter cells of Candida albicans blastospores were retained in 2 microm pits. For S. aureus and P. aeruginosa, the greatest numbers of cells were retained in the largest (2 microm) surface features. The number of C. albicans was similar across all the surfaces. The use of defined surfaces in microbial retention assays may lead to a better understanding of the interaction occurring between cells and surface features.
Major histocompatibility complex independent clonal T cell anergy by direct interaction of Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin B with the T cell antigen receptor.	The Staphylococcal enterotoxin superantigens stimulate vigorous responses in T cells bearing certain T cell antigen receptor (TCR) V beta regions. In addition to activation, these superantigens also impart negative signals to T cells resulting in a profound state of unresponsiveness or anergy. The Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxins (SE) B and C2 bind to a closely related site on major histocompatibility complex (MHC) human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR1 molecules. Only SEB, however, interacts with the TCR V beta 3 region of HA1.7, a human HLA-DR1 restricted T cell clone specific for influenza haemagglutinin. In competition experiments, we demonstrated that the induction of anergy in HA1.7 by SEB is unaffected by the presence of SEC2. These results suggest that SEB-induced anergy is MHC independent and involves a direct interaction between the TCR and SEB. To resolve definitively whether SEB binds directly to T cells in the absence of MHC class II molecules, the cDNAs encoding the HA1.7 TCR were transfected into an MHC class II-negative human T cell line. The addition of SEB to these transfectants resulted in the downregulation of cell surface TCR expression, an increase in the concentration of intracellular calcium ions, the production of lymphokines, and reduced responsiveness to a subsequent challenge with SEB. We conclude that SEB interacts directly with the TCR in the absence of cointeraction with MHC class II molecules, and that this interaction may induce anergy in HA1.7.
Bacterial transmission from contact lenses to porcine corneas: an ex vivo study.	To quantify the transmission to ex vivo porcine eyes of Staphylococcus aureus 835 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 3 from three types of contact lenses-one daily wear and two extended wear-differing in hydrophobicity and roughness.
Fever response of sheep in the peripartum period to gram-negative and gram-positive pyrogens.	We have measured body temperatures and serum iron concentrations of sheep in the peripartum period following administration of endotoxin and Staphylococcus aureus cell walls. Both the rise in rectal temperature and the fall in serum iron concentration following intravenous injection of S. aureus were the same immediately pre- and postpartum as they were 5 weeks after parturition. The rise in rectal temperature following intravenous endotoxin injection immediately pre- and postpartum was significantly less than that of the same ewes 5 weeks later. However, the fall in serum iron concentration following endotoxin injection was significantly suppressed only prepartum. We conclude that fever is not suppressed in sheep in the peripartum period, but the response to endotoxin is suppressed, through complex processes incidental to the mechanism responsible for the maintenance of gestation and induction of labour.
Antimicrobial activity of lysostaphin and a Listeria monocytogenes bacteriophage endolysin produced and secreted by lactic acid bacteria.	The expression and secretion signals of the Sep protein from Lactobacillus fermentum BR11 were used to direct export of two peptidoglycan hydrolases by Lb. fermentum BR11, Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, Lactobacillus plantarum ATCC 14917 and Lactococcus lactis MG1363. The production levels, hydrolytic and bacteriocidal activities of the Listeria monocytogenes bacteriophage N-acetylmuramoyl-l-alanine amidase endolysin Ply511 and the glycylglycine endopeptidase lysostaphin were examined. Buffering of the growth media to a neutral pH allowed detection of Ply511 and lysostaphin peptidoglycan hydrolytic activity from all lactic acid bacteria. It was found that purified Ply511 has a pH activity range similar to that of lysostaphin with both enzymes functioning optimally under alkaline conditions. Supernatants from lactobacilli expressing lysostaphin reduced viability of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) by approximately 8 log(10) CFU/ml compared to controls. However, supernatants containing Ply511 were unable to control L. monocytogenes growth. In coculture experiments, both Lb. plantarum and Lb. fermentum synthesizing lysostaphin were able to effectively reduce MRSA cell numbers by >7.4 and 1.7 log(10)CFU/ml, respectively, while lactic acid bacteria secreting Ply511 were unable to significantly inhibit the growth of L. monocytogenes. Our results demonstrate that lysostaphin and Ply511 can be expressed in an active form from different lactic acid bacteria and lysostaphin showed superior killing activity. Lactobacilli producing lysostaphin may have potential for in situ biopreservation in foodstuffs or for prevention of S. aureus infections.
Use of the atomic force microscope to determine the effect of substratum surface topography on the ease of bacterial removal.	The ease of removal of differently sized and shaped bacteria from substrata with defined surface topographies and features was investigated. Surfaces with defined surface topography (smooth or with randomly spaced surface features (pits) of 0.5 microm diameter), chemistry (titanium oxide), and wettability (89-93 degrees) were produced. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to determine the ease of bacterial removal from substrata; gram negative Pseudomonas aeruginosa (rods 1 microm width x 3 microm length) and gram positive Staphylococcus aureus (1 microm diameter coccus). The AFM tip was scanned across the retained cells under liquid (contact mode). Over time, using a continuous perpendicular tip force, approximately one third of the cells were removed from the surface following lateral movement of the AFM tip across the surface. When the perpendicular tip force was increased S. aureus were removed more easily from smooth surfaces. In contrast P. aeruginosa cells were removed more easily from the 0.5 microm featured surfaces. The shape of the cell with respect to the shape of the substratum features influences the ease of removal of the cell from the surface: on smooth surfaces the cocci had a smaller cell:surface contact area, whereas the rods had a larger cell:surface contact area. Conversely on featured surfaces the cocci had a larger cell:surface contact area, whereas rods that lay across features had a smaller cell:surface contact area. Using engineered surfaces with defined properties, it has been shown that manipulation of a single parameter (surface roughness) had an effect on the strength of microbial retention.
Peptide-PEG amphiphiles as cytophobic coatings for mammalian and bacterial cells.	Amphiphilic macromolecules containing a polystyrene-adherent peptide domain and a cell-repellent poly(ethylene glycol) domain were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as a cytophobic surface coating. Such cytophobic, or cell-repellent, coatings are of interest for varied medical and biotechnological applications. The composition of the polystyrene binding peptide domain was identified using an M13 phage display library. ELISA and atomic force spectroscopy were used to evaluate the binding affinity of the amphiphile peptide domain to polystyrene. When coated onto polystyrene, the amphiphile reduced cell adhesion of two distinct mammalian cell lines and pathogenic Staphylococcus aureus strains.
Bacterial adherence to tantalum versus commonly used orthopedic metallic implant materials.	Evaluation of bacterial adhesion to pure tantalum and tantalum-coated stainless steel versus commercially pure titanium, titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4V), and grit-blasted and polished stainless steel.
Immobilization of bacteria in silica matrices using citric acid in the sol-gel process.	The aim of this work was to use citric acid in the sol-gel process to generate an inorganic polymer that allows bacterial survival for long periods of time and to study the influence of different storage temperatures. We compared gram-negative Escherichia coli and gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus, immobilized and preserved at different storage temperatures in silica matrices prepared by the method proposed. Immobilized E. coli and S. aureus in silica matrices were stored in sealed tubes at 20, 4, -20, and -70 degrees C for 4 months during which the number of viable cells was analyzed. Results show that the immobilization in silica matrices using citric acid, to neutralize the alkalinity of the silica precursors, makes the technique not only biocompatible but also easier to perform since polymerization does not occur immediately as it does when hydrochloric acid is utilized.
Elucidation of toll-like receptor and adapter protein signaling in vascular dysfunction induced by gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus or gram-negative Escherichia coli.	Pathogens contain specific pathogen-associated molecular patterns, which activate pattern recognition receptors of the innate immune system such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Although there is a clear evidence of how macrophages sense pathogens, we know less about such processes in vessels. This is critical to understand because activation of vascular cells and the subsequent induction of inflammatory genes by bacteria are crucial events in the development of septic shock. In the current study we have used genetically modified mice to investigate the role of TLRs, adapter proteins, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), and nitric oxide synthase II (NOSII) in vascular dysfunction induced by Gram-positive (Staphylococcus aureus) or Gram-negative (Escherichia coli) bacteria. Our data show that Gram-positive S. aureus or Gram-negative E. coli causes vascular dysfunction via the induction of NOSII. For S. aureus, this process requires TLR2, TLR6, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) adapter-like, MyD88, and TNF, but not TLR4 or TLR1. Vascular dysfunction induced by E. coli requires TLR4 but has no requirement for TLR2, TLR1, TLR6, or TNF, and a partial but incomplete requirement of MyD88 and TIR domain-containing adapter inducing interferon-beta. Staphylococcus aureus induced NOSII protein expression in vascular smooth muscle cells but not in macrophages, whereas E. coli induced NOSII in both cell types. Our data are the first to establish the definitive roles of specific TLRs in the sensing of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria by vessels and demonstrate that macrophages and blood vessels may differ in their response to pathogens.
Transcriptional regulation of IL-8 by Staphylococcus aureus in human conjunctival cells involves activation of AP-1.	To identify signal transduction pathways involved in interleukin (IL)-8 expression by human conjunctival cells challenged with Staphylococcus aureus.
Fluorescence-based bacterial overlay method for simultaneous in situ quantification of surface-attached bacteria.	For quantification of bacterial adherence to biomaterial surfaces or to other surfaces prone to biofouling, there is a need for methods that allow a comparative analysis of small material specimens. A new method for quantification of surface-attached biotinylated bacteria was established by in situ detection with fluorescence-labeled avidin-D. This method was evaluated utilizing a silicon wafer model system to monitor the influences of surface wettability and roughness on bacterial adhesion. Furthermore, the effects of protein preadsorption from serum, saliva, human serum albumin, and fibronectin were investigated. Streptococcus gordonii, Streptococcus mitis, and Staphylococcus aureus were chosen as model organisms because of their differing adhesion properties and their clinical relevance. To verify the results obtained by this new technique, scanning electron microscopy and agar replica plating were employed. Oxidized and poly(ethylene glycol)-modified silicon wafers were found to be more resistant to bacterial adhesion than wafers coated with hydrocarbon and fluorocarbon moieties. Roughening of the chemically modified surfaces resulted in an overall increase in bacterial attachment. Preadsorption of proteins affected bacterial adherence but did not fully abolish the influence of the original surface chemistry. However, in certain instances, mostly with saliva or serum, masking of the underlying surface chemistry became evident. The new bacterial overlay method allowed a reliable quantification of surface-attached bacteria and could hence be employed for measuring bacterial adherence on material specimens in a variety of applications.
Effect of a biological response modifier on expression of growth factors and cellular proliferation at drying off.	Agents that increase natural protective mechanisms have been proposed for the prevention and treatment of intramammary infections. Staphylococcus aureus is a major pathogen causing primarily subclinical chronic mastitis that responds poorly to antibiotic therapy. The objectives of this study were to describe the effects of a single intramammary infusion of a lipopolysaccharide-based biological response modifier (BRM) on mammary epithelial cellular proliferation and expression of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in uninfected and Staph. aureus-infected bovine mammary glands during involution. Three groups of 12 cows, 6 Staph. aureus-infected and 6 uninfected, were infused with BRM or placebo in 2 mammary quarters and killed at 7, 14, and 21 d of involution. The proportion of infected quarters, mammary cell proliferation, and IGF-I and VEGF expression were evaluated. Biological response modifier treatment decreased the proportion of Staph. aureus-infected mammary quarters at 7 d of involution, but a similar number of isolations were observed at 14 and 21 d of involution in either treated or control quarters. The percentage of proliferating mammary epithelial cells was higher in infected than uninfected quarters at every observation period, irrespective of the treatment administered, whereas uninfected BRM-treated quarters showed increased cell proliferation at 7 d of involution. Insulin-like growth factor-I expression in uninfected quarters was not affected by treatment and showed a decrease at 21 d of involution. Expression of IGF-I was greater in infected than uninfected quarters at every observation period, irrespective of the treatment received. Expression of VEGF was greater in BRM-treated uninfected quarters at 7 d of involution compared with controls. In infected quarters, VEGF expression was lowest in BRM-treated quarters at 7 d of involution and increased throughout the observation period. Conversely, untreated infected quarters showed the highest VEGF expression at 7 d and decreased at 21 d of involution. Mammary cell proliferation and expression of IGF-I and VEGF were increased in Staph. aureus-infected quarters. Increased mammary cell proliferation and VEGF expression were observed in BRM-treated quarters during the first week of involution.
Candida dubliniensis isolated from the sputum of a patient with end-stage liver cirrhosis.	Candida dubliniensis is rare and very similar to C. albicans. To date, detailed clinical reports on C. dubuliniensis recovered from an immunocompromised patient have not been described in Japan. A 71-year-old man with end-stage liver cirrhosis had been treated for suppurative omarthritis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Anti-MRSA agents and broad-spectrum antimicrobials but no antifungal agents had been administrated. C. dubliniensis, isolated from the sputum, was eliminated by selective digestive decontamination and supportive therapy. This case emphasizes the need to recognize this emerging Candida sp., C. dubliniensis in cases of opportunistic infection.
Purified staphylococcal culture medium stimulates neutral metalloprotease secretion from human articular cartilage.	Human articular cartilage released significantly increased levels of metal-dependent enzymes capable of degrading collagen, casein, and gelatin at a neutral pH following exposure to a sterile, purified fraction of Staphylococcus aureus culture medium. Neutral metalloprotease activity was determined by radiolabeled substrate assays and substrate gel analysis. The enzymes were activated with 4-aminophenylmercuric acetate and were inhibited by 1,10-phenanthroline and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid. Protein immunoblots demonstrated that type I collagenase and stromelysin (matrix metalloproteinase III) secretion was increased following staphylococcal medium challenge. The profile of enzymatic activity induced by staphylococcal medium was directly comparable to that observed with interleukin-1, which was used as a positive control. The staphylococcal medium had no inherent proteolytic activity. Increased production of the neutral metalloproteases collagenase and stromelysin may significantly contribute to the extensive cartilage destruction noted in staphylococcal septic arthritis.
Clinical observation of teacher tablets in treatment of pharyngitis]	To evaluate the efficacy of teacher tablets in the treatment of pharyngitis.
Isolation, structural and functional characterization of Staphylococcus aureus protoplasts obtained using lysoamidase.	The action of the lysoamidase bacteriolytic complex on Staphylococcus aureus VKM B-209P cells has been studied to obtain protoplasts. The cells in the midlogarithmic phase were the most sensitive to lysoamidase action. It led to local destruction of cell wall due to hydrolysis of the peptidoglycan. Protoplast formation occurred in two steps in the presence of 1 M sucrose. First, osmotically fragile spheroplasts were formed. Then, the protoplasts were released from the destructed cell wall. The protoplast yield was about 80%. The protoplasts preserved the intact ultrastructure and were able to synthesize peptidoglycan fibrillae. Mainly the spheroplasts that maintained the cell-wall residues reversed into bacterial forms. The protoplasts had respiratory activity similar to cells. Respiration of cells and protoplasts was stimulated by various substrates. High rates of oxygen consumption were observed with alpha-glycerophosphate and ethanol as substrates.
Influence of artificial ageing on surface properties and Streptococcus mutans adhesion to dental composite materials.	The aim of this in vitro study was to investigate the influence of artificial ageing on the surface properties and early Streptococcus mutans adhesion to current dental composites for the direct restoration of class II defects. Three hundred and thirty specimens each were prepared from five dental composites, and were randomly allotted to various artificial ageing protocols (storage in distilled water/ethanol/artificial saliva for 7/90/365 days; thermal cycling, 6,000 cycles 5/55 degrees C). Prior and after each treatment, surface roughness (R(a)) and hydrophobicity were determined, and S. mutans adhesion (ATCC 25175; 2.5 h, 37 degrees C) was simulated with and without prior exposition to human whole saliva (2 h, 37 degrees C). Adherence of S. mutans was determined fluorometrically. Means and standard deviations were calculated, and analyzed using three-way ANOVA and post-hoc analysis (alpha = 0.05). For both R(a) and S. mutans adherence to uncoated and saliva-coated specimens, significant influences of the composite material, the ageing medium and the ageing duration have been observed; for surface hydrophobicity, significant influences of the composite material and the ageing duration were found. For uncoated specimens, significant increases in S. mutans adhesion were observed with prolonged artificial ageing, whereas significant decreases in S. mutans adhesion were found for the saliva-coated specimens. The data indicate influences of the artificial ageing method on surface parameters such as R(a) and hydrophobicity as well as microbial adhesion. The results underline the relevance of saliva coating on the outcome of studies simulating microbial adhesion, and highlight differences in the susceptibility of dental composites for the adhesion of oral bacteria.
Proteolytic regulation of toxin-antitoxin systems by ClpPC in Staphylococcus aureus.	Bacterial toxin-antitoxin (TA) systems typically consist of a small, labile antitoxin that inactivates a specific longer-lived toxin. In Escherichia coli, such antitoxins are proteolytically regulated by the ATP-dependent proteases Lon and ClpP. Under normal conditions, antitoxin synthesis is sufficient to replace this loss from proteolysis, and the bacterium remains protected from the toxin. However, if TA production is interrupted, antitoxin levels decrease, and the cognate toxin is free to inhibit the specific cellular component, such as mRNA, DnaB, or gyrase. To date, antitoxin degradation has been studied only in E. coli, so it remains unclear whether similar mechanisms of regulation exist in other organisms. To address this, we followed antitoxin levels over time for the three known TA systems of the major human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus, mazEF, axe1-txe1, and axe2-txe2. We observed that the antitoxins of these systems, MazE(sa), Axe1, and Axe2, respectively, were all degraded rapidly (half-life [t(1/2)], approximately 18 min) at rates notably higher than those of their E. coli counterparts, such as MazE (t(1/2), approximately 30 to 60 min). Furthermore, when S. aureus strains deficient for various proteolytic systems were examined for changes in the half-lives of these antitoxins, only strains with clpC or clpP deletions showed increased stability of the molecules. From these studies, we concluded that ClpPC serves as the functional unit for the degradation of all known antitoxins in S. aureus.
Characterization of hydrogen peroxide production by Duox in bronchial epithelial cells exposed to Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	Hydrogen peroxide production by the NADPH oxidase Duox1 occurs during activation of respiratory epithelial cells stimulated by purified bacterial ligands, such as lipopolysaccharide. Here, we characterize Duox activation using intact bacterial cells of several airway pathogens. We found that only Pseudomonas aeruginosa, not Burkholderia cepacia or Staphylococcus aureus, triggers H2O2 production in bronchial epithelial cells in a calcium-dependent but predominantly ATP-independent manner. Moreover, by comparing mutant Pseudomonas strains, we identify several virulence factors that participate in Duox activation, including the type-three secretion system. These data provide insight on Duox activation by mechanisms unique to P. aeruginosa.
Platelet receptor polymorphisms do not influence Staphylococcus aureus-platelet interactions or infective endocarditis.	Cardiac vegetations result from bacterium-platelet adherence, activation and aggregation, and are associated with increased morbidity and mortality in infective endocarditis. The GPIIb/IIIa and FcγRIIa platelet receptors play a central role in platelet adhesion, activation and aggregation induced by endocarditis pathogens such as Staphylococcus aureus, but the influence of known polymorphisms of these receptors on the pathogenesis of infective endocarditis is unknown. We determined the GPIIIa platelet antigen Pl(A1/A2) and FcγRIIa H131R genotype of healthy volunteers (n = 160) and patients with infective endocarditis (n = 40), and investigated the influence of these polymorphisms on clinical outcome in infective endocarditis and S. aureus-platelet interactions in vitro. Platelet receptor genotype did not correlate with development of infective endocarditis, vegetation characteristics on echocardiogram or the composite clinical end-point of embolism, heart failure, need for surgery or mortality (P > 0.05 for all), even though patients with the GPIIIa Pl(A1/A1) genotype had increased in vivo platelet activation (P = 0.001). Furthermore, neither GPIIIa Pl(A1/A2) nor FcγRIIa H131R genotype influenced S. aureus-induced platelet adhesion, activation or aggregation in vitro (P > 0.05). Taken together, our data suggest that the GPIIIa and FcγRIIa platelet receptor polymorphisms do not influence S. aureus-platelet interactions in vitro or the clinical course of infective endocarditis.
Force analysis of bacterial transmission from contact lens cases to corneas, with the contact lens as the intermediary.	To determine the probability of transmission of a Staphylococcus aureus strain from a contact lens case, to the contact lens (CL) surfaces, to the cornea, on the basis of bacterial adhesion forces measured by using atomic force microscopy (AFM).
Anti-infective properties of Lactobacillus fermentum against Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.	Surgical wounds and implant-associated Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections are often difficult to treat because of limited susceptibility of several of these strains to conventional antibiotics. As a result, there is a constant need for new alternative drugs. The aim of this study was to investigate the antimicrobial properties of Lactobacillus fermentum, a probiotic bacterium, which we have isolated from colonic biopsies. The inhibition of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa growth was evaluated by coincubating with L. fermentum strains. Growth inhibition was tested for several of their clinical isolates using agar well diffusion assays. For biofilm assay S. aureus and P. aeruginosa were grown on the glass slides and in 96-well plates in presence of 2.5 μg/ml culture filtrate of L. fermentum. Biofilms were photographed using confocal microscope or stained with 0.1% crystal violet. Reduction in the cytotoxicity of S. aureus and P. aeruginosa was observed in presence of 2.5 μg/ml L. fermentum-spent media. Using in vitroexperiments, we showed that L. fermentum-secreted compound(s) inhibits the growth, cytotoxicity and biofilm formation of several S. aureus and P. aeruginosa strains. Compound(s) present in the culture supernatant of L. fermentum may have promising applications in treating hospital-acquired infections.
Comparative expression profiling of E. coli and S. aureus inoculated primary mammary gland cells sampled from cows with different genetic predispositions for somatic cell score.	During the past ten years many quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting mastitis incidence and mastitis related traits like somatic cell score (SCS) were identified in cattle. However, little is known about the molecular architecture of QTL affecting mastitis susceptibility and the underlying physiological mechanisms and genes causing mastitis susceptibility. Here, a genome-wide expression analysis was conducted to analyze molecular mechanisms of mastitis susceptibility that are affected by a specific QTL for SCS on Bos taurus autosome 18 (BTA18). Thereby, some first insights were sought into the genetically determined mechanisms of mammary gland epithelial cells influencing the course of infection.
Increased recruitment but impaired function of leukocytes during inflammation in mouse models of type 1 and type 2 diabetes.	Patients suffering from diabetes show defective bacterial clearance. This study investigates the effects of elevated plasma glucose levels during diabetes on leukocyte recruitment and function in established models of inflammation.
Cross-strain quorum sensing inhibition by Staphylococcus aureus. Part 1: A spatially homogeneous model.	Staphylococcus aureus uses the agr quorum sensing (QS) system to regulate reciprocally colonisation and virulence factor production. S. aureus strains can be divided into four agr groups: those within a specific agr group activate the QS systems of strains belonging to the same group, while inhibiting agr expression in strains of other groups. Furthermore, agr homologues exist in many more species of gram-positive bacteria, raising the likelihood of cross-species interference. In principle, a non-pathogenic strain of S. aureus or other species of bacteria employing agr could be engineered to inhibit the QS systems of pathogenic strains using agr, thus down-regulating their production of virulence factors. We present three models of the agr operon belonging to strains competing for dominance, each comprising one of the three possible phosphorylation cascades governing the two component system (TCS) of the agr system. Bifurcation analyses clarify the aspects of QS most crucial in determining the efficacy of using a non-pathogenic strain for therapeutic purposes if the target TCS cascade is known and illustrate the qualitative and quantitative differences which occur as a result of mechanistic differences between the models. We highlight those results that, in concert with appropriate experimental data, would be most useful in ascertaining whether or not a classical TCS is in operation in a particular strain if this information is unknown.
In vitro assessment of Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus adhesion on TiO₂ nanotubes on Ti-6Al-4V alloy.	The aim of this study was to evaluate Staphylococcus sp. adhesion to modified surfaces of titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4V). Specimens of Ti-6Al-4V alloy 6-4 ELI-grade 23 that meets the requirements of ASTM F136 2002A (AMS 2631B class A1) were anodized in a mixture of sulfuric/hydrofluoric acid at 20 V for 5 and 60 min to form nanoporous (NP) and nanotubular (NT) oxide layers with pore diameter of 20 and 100 nm, respectively. The amount of fluorine incorporated in the oxide films from the electrolyte was 6 and 4 wt %, respectively. Bacterial adherence was studied using laboratory strains and six clinical strains each of Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Lower adherence of laboratory strains was demonstrated on fluoride nanostructured surfaces in comparison with the fluoride-free surfaces. Significant differences between clinical strains and laboratory strains were also found (p < 0.0001, Kruskal-Wallis test) when NP and NT specimens were compared with chemically polished (CP) surfaces. The results of the tests using multiple clinical strains confirmed a decrease in bacterial adherence on F-containing titanium oxide surfaces, suggesting a potential applicability of this surface, with a confirmed added value of decreasing clinical staphylococci adherence, for medical prosthetic devices.
Adhesion of Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa onto nanohydroxyapatite as a bone regeneration material.	In orthopedics due to the enormous number of surgical procedures involving invasive implant biomaterials, infections have a huge impact in terms of morbidity, mortality, and medical costs. In this study the initial adhesion of several strains namely Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, to nanohydroxyapatite, previously heat-treated at 725 °C and 1000 °C was assessed. Adherent cells were evaluated by scanning electron microscopy and quantified by confocal laser scanning microscopy and as colony forming units after being released by sonication. The wettability and roughness of samples surfaces were assessed by contact angle measurements and atomic force microscopy, respectively. Nanohydroxyapatite heat-treated at 1000 °C appeared to be more resistant to bacterial adhesion, over time, in five of the six tested strains while the clinical strains isolated from orthopedic infections presented superior ability to adhere, as well as better capacity to produce slime. The increase in materials sintering temperature resulted in increased hydrophobicity and roughness; however, other surface features such as the decrease in surface area and on porosity as well as the decrease on zeta potential may be the aspects that contributed to a lower bacterial adhesion on the materials sintered at 1000 °C.
Toward a classification of isodynamic feed-forward motifs.	A preceding study analysed how the topology of network motifs affects the overall rate of the underlying biochemical processes. Surprisingly, it was shown that topologically non-isomorphic motifs can still be isodynamic in the sense that they exhibit the exact same performance rate. Because of the high prevalence of feed-forward functional modules in biological networks, one may hypothesize that evolution tends to favour motifs with faster dynamics. As a step towards ranking the efficiency of feed-forward network motifs, we use a linear flow model to prove theorems establishing that certain classes of motifs are isodynamic. In partitioning the class of all motifs on n nodes into equivalence classes based upon their dynamics, we establish a basis for comparing the efficiency/performance rates of different motifs. The potential biological importance of the theorems is briefly discussed and is the subject of an ongoing large-scale project.
Staphylococcus aureus adherence to Candida albicans hyphae is mediated by the hyphal adhesin Als3p.	The bacterium Staphylococcus (St.) aureus and the opportunistic fungus Candida albicans are currently among the leading nosocomial pathogens, often co-infecting critically ill patients, with high morbidity and mortality. Previous investigations have demonstrated preferential adherence of St. aureus to C. albicans hyphae during mixed biofilm growth. In this study, we aimed to characterize the mechanism behind this observed interaction. C. albicans adhesin-deficient mutant strains were screened by microscopy to identify the specific receptor on C. albicans hyphae recognized by St. aureus. Furthermore, an immunoassay was developed to validate and quantify staphylococcal binding to fungal biofilms. The findings from these experiments implicated the C. albicans adhesin agglutinin-like sequence 3 (Als3p) in playing a major role in the adherence process. This association was quantitatively established using atomic force microscopy, in which the adhesion force between single cells of the two species was significantly reduced for a C. albicans mutant strain lacking als3. Confocal microscopy further confirmed these observations, as St. aureus overlaid with a purified recombinant Als3 N-terminal domain fragment (rAls3p) exhibited robust binding. Importantly, a strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae heterologously expressing Als3p was utilized to further confirm this adhesin as a receptor for St. aureus. Although the parental strain does not bind bacteria, expression of Als3p on the cell surface conferred upon the yeast the ability to strongly bind St. aureus. To elucidate the implications of these in vitro findings in a clinically relevant setting, an ex vivo murine model of co-infection was designed using murine tongue explants. Fluorescent microscopic images revealed extensive hyphal penetration of the epithelium typical of C. albicans mucosal infection. Interestingly, St. aureus bacterial cells were only seen within the epithelial tissue when associated with the invasive hyphae. This differed from tongues infected with St. aureus alone or in conjunction with the als3 mutant strain of C. albicans, where bacterial presence was limited to the outer layers of the oral tissue. Collectively, the findings generated from this study identified a key role for C. albicans Als3p in mediating this clinically relevant fungal-bacterial interaction.
Staphylococcus aureus exhibit similarities in their interactions with Acanthamoeba and ThP1 macrophage-like cells.	Staphylococcus aureus is a leading cause of nosocomial infections. Haematogenous spread is a pre-requisite but it is not clear how S. aureus survive the onslaught of macrophages. Acanthamoeba is a protozoan pathogen that is remarkably similar to macrophages, particularly in their cellular structure (morphological and ultra-structural features), molecular motility, biochemical physiology, ability to capture prey by phagocytosis and interactions with microbial pathogens. Thus, we hypothesize that S. aureus exhibit similarities in their interactions with Acanthamoeba and ThP1 macrophage-like cells. Here, we studied interactions of methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (MSSA), methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and Staphylococcus epidermidis (SE) with Acanthamoeba castellanii belonging to the T4 genotype and macrophage-like cells (ThP1). The findings revealed that both MRSA and MSSA exhibited similarities in their binding/association and invasion of A. castellanii and ThP1 cells. Long-term incubation showed that MRSA and MSSA can survive intracellularly of both Acanthamoeba and ThP1 cells. Overall, these findings suggest that Acanthamoeba exhibit similar characteristics with ThP1 macrophage-like cells in their interaction with MRSA and MSSA. Additionally it was shown that bacteria survive inside Acanthamoeba during the encystment process as evidenced by bacterial recovery from mature cysts. Given that Acanthamoeba cysts are airborne, these findings suggest that cysts may act as "Trojan horse" to help spread MRSA to susceptible hosts.
Staphylococcus aureus promotes autophagy by decreasing intracellular cAMP levels.	Staphylococcus aureus is an intracellular bacterium responsible for serious infectious processes. This pathogen escapes from the phagolysosomal pathway into the cytoplasm, a strategy that allows intracellular bacterial replication and survival with the consequent killing of the eukaryotic host cell and spreading of the infection. S. aureus is able to secrete several virulence factors such as enzymes and toxins. Our recent findings indicate that the main virulence factor of S. aureus, the pore-forming toxin α-hemolysin (Hla), is the secreted factor responsible for the activation of an alternative autophagic pathway. We have demonstrated that this noncanonical autophagic response is inhibited by artificially elevating the intracellular levels of cAMP. This effect is mediated by RAPGEF3/EPAC (Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF)3/exchange protein activated by cAMP), a cAMP downstream effector that functions as a GEF for the small GTPase Rap. We have presented evidence that RAPGEF3 and RAP2B, through calpain activation, are the proteins involved in the regulation of Hla and S. aureus-induced autophagy. In addition, we have found that both, RAPGEF3 and RAP2B, are recruited to the S. aureus-containing phagosome. Of note, adding purified α-toxin or infecting the cells with S. aureus leads to a decrease in intracellular cAMP levels, which promotes autophagy induction, a response that favors pathogen intracellular survival, as previously demonstrated. We have identified some key signaling molecules involved in the autophagic response upon infection with a bacterial pathogen, which have important implications in understanding innate immune defense mechanisms.
Involvement of phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase/Akt signaling pathway in β1 integrin-mediated internalization of Staphylococcus aureus by alveolar epithelial cells.	The invasion of Staphylococcus aureus into alveolar epithelial cells is regarded as the key step for S. aureus lung infection. However, the mechanism of internalization of S. aureus by alveolar epithelial cells is not clear, and was the aim of this investigation Human lung adenocarcinomic epithelial cells and A549 cells were used. Human β1 integrin and rat β1 integrin were detected by real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. The expressions of β1 integrin, Akt and p-Akt were detected by Western blot analysis. To further investigate the role of β1 integrin in S. aureus internalization by alveolar epithelial cells, we next performed siRNA-mediated knockdown of β1 integrin expression. In this study, we found that S. aureus invades human alveolar epithelial cells and rat primary alveolar epithelial cells. The β1 integrin ligand competitive inhibitor, GRGDS-peptide, blocked the internalization of S. aureus by A549 cells. Knockdown of β1 integrin also inhibited the internalization of S. aureus. In addition, the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in alveolar epithelial cells was activated by the infection with S. aureus. Furthermore, Akt phosphorylation was abolished by transient transfection with β1 integrin siRNA in A549 cells challenged with S. aureus. Our results suggest that the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathway plays an important role in β1 integrin-mediated internalization of S. aureus by alveolar epithelial cells. 
Effects of C-reactive protein on the neutrophil respiratory burst in vitro.	This study determined the influence of physiologically relevant concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP) on reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by neutrophils. Neutrophils from healthy individuals were incubated with soluble pentameric CRP prior to TLR stimulation with Fusobacterium nucleatum, or FcγR stimulation with IgG-opsonised Staphylococcus aureus or heat-aggregated IgG. ROS generation by unstimulated cells and those after stimulation were determined using luminol, isoluminol and lucigenin chemiluminescence, detecting predominantly intracellular hypochlorous acid (HOCl), extracellular hydrogen peroxide (detected as HOCl) and extracellular superoxide respectively. Baseline (unstimulated) neutrophil ROS generation and release was reduced compared with vehicle control by 10 µg/ml CRP. There was no consistent effect of CRP on FcγR-stimulated HOCl production, but the extracellular superoxide response was reduced by 10 µg/ml CRP. By contrast, CRP reduced intracellular (10 µg/ml) and extracellular (3 and 10 µg/ml) HOCl generation, but increased superoxide release (1-10 µg/ml) in response to TLR stimulation. Physiologically relevant concentrations of CRP inhibited baseline ROS generation and reduced FcγR-stimulated extracellular superoxide and TLR-stimulated HOCl release, suggesting that CRP may offer some degree of host protection from neutrophil-associated, low-level oxidative stress. However, CRP enhanced TLR-mediated superoxide release from neutrophils, potentially increasing oxidative stress but aiding host protection from infection. 
Expression of lysozyme in the life history of the house fly (Musca domestica l.).	From egg to adult, all life history stages of house flies associate with septic environments teeming with bacteria. House fly lysozyme was first identified in the larval midgut, where it is used for digestion of microbe-rich meals because of its broad-spectrum activity against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria as well as fungi. This study aimed to determine the temporal expression of lysozyme in the life history of house flies (from egg through adults) on both the mRNA and protein level, and to determine the tissue-specific expression of lysozyme in adult flies induced by feeding Staphylococcus aureus. From 30-min postoviposition through adulthood, all life history stages of the house fly express lysozyme on the mRNA level. In adult flies, lysozyme is expressed both locally in the alimentary canal and systemically in the fat body. Interestingly, we found that during the normal life history of flies, lysozyme protein was only detected in larval stages and older adults, likely because of ingestion of immune-stimulating levels of bacteria, not experienced during egg, pupa, and teneral adult stages. Constitutive expression on the mRNA level implies that this effector is a primary defense molecule in all stages of the house fly life history, and that a mechanism for posttranscriptional control of mature lysozyme enzyme expression may be present. Lysozyme active enzyme primarily serves both a digestive and defensive function in larval and adult flies, and may be a key player in the ability of Musca domestica L. to thrive in microbe-rich environments.
Plasma surface modification of rigid contact lenses decreases bacterial adhesion.	Contact lens safety is an important topic in clinical studies. Corneal infections usually occur because of the use of bacteria-carrying contact lenses. The current study investigated the impact of plasma surface modification on bacterial adherence to rigid contact lenses made of fluorosilicone acrylate materials.
Active smoking status in chronic rhinosinusitis is associated with higher serum markers of inflammation and lower serum eosinophilia.	Smoking negatively affects postoperative evolution in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS); however, the mechanism remains incompletely described. In the lung, smoking increases expression of proinflammatory genes and is associated with an elevation of inflammatory serum markers. Our objective is to determine the impact of smoking on these biomarkers in CRS.
Analysis of skin and secretions of Dybowski's frogs (Rana dybowskii) exposed to Staphylococcus aureus or Escherichia coli identifies immune response proteins.	The aim of the present study was to investigate responses in Dybowski's frogs (Rana dybowskii) exposed to bacteria, using proteomic and transcriptomic approaches. Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli were used as representative Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, respectively, in an infectious challenge model. Frog skin and skin secretions were collected and protein expression in infected frogs compared to control frogs by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, silver staining, and image analysis. Proteins that demonstrated differential expression were analysed by mass spectrometry and identified by searching protein databases. More than 180 protein spots demonstrated differential expression in E. coli- or S. aureus-challenged groups and, of these, more than 55 spots were up- or down-regulated at least sixfold, post-infection. Proteins with a potential function in the immune response were identified, such as stathmin 1a, annexin A1, superoxide dismutase A, C-type lectin, lysozyme, antimicrobial peptides, cofilin-1-B, mannose receptor, histone H4, prohormone convertase 1, carbonyl reductase 1 and some components of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signalling pathway. These molecules are potential candidates for further investigation of immune mechanisms in R. dybowskii; in particular, TLR-mediated responses, which might be activated in frogs exposed to pathogenic bacteria as part of innate immune defence, but which might also impact on adaptive immunity to infection. 
Quantification of confocal images of biofilms grown on irregular surfaces.	Bacterial biofilms grow on many types of surfaces, including flat surfaces such as glass and metal and irregular surfaces such as rocks, biological tissues and polymers. While laser scanning confocal microscopy can provide high-resolution images of biofilms grown on any surface, quantification of biofilm-associated bacteria is currently limited to bacteria grown on flat surfaces. This can limit researchers studying irregular surfaces to qualitative analysis or quantification of only the total bacteria in an image. In this work, we introduce a new algorithm called modified connected volume filtration (MCVF) to quantify bacteria grown on top of an irregular surface that is fluorescently labeled or reflective. Using the MCVF algorithm, two new quantification parameters are introduced. The modified substratum coverage parameter enables quantification of the connected-biofilm bacteria on top of the surface and on the imaging substratum. The utility of MCVF and the modified substratum coverage parameter were shown with Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus biofilms grown on human airway epithelial cells. A second parameter, the percent association, provides quantified data on the colocalization of the bacteria with a labeled component, including bacteria within a labeled tissue. The utility of quantifying the bacteria associated with the cell cytoplasm was demonstrated with Neisseria gonorrhoeae biofilms grown on cervical epithelial cells. This algorithm provides more flexibility and quantitative ability to researchers studying biofilms grown on a variety of irregular substrata. 
The disposition and clearance of inhaled bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus) in the lungs of piglets]	Retention in the lungs of 24 piglets of bacteria inhaled following exposure to an aerosol (dv(50)4 micron) of Staphylococcus aureus (SG511 strain), with clearance periods of differentiated lengths, is reported in this paper. Aerosol inhalation led to heterogeneous deposition patterns in the lung. The highest germ count per gram of lung tissue could be re-isolated from the base lobe, while the lowest germ count was retained in the apical lobe. Germ retention in the other lung lobes was somewhere in between these findings. Such differentiation was detectable as early as 20 minutes from the onset of aerosol application and continued to be largely stable even after clearance periods of 2 and 6 hours.
In vitro correlation of platelet aggregation with occurrence of disseminated intravascular coagulation and subacute bacterial endocarditis.	Platelet-bacterial interactions were examined in vitro by incubating organisms isolated from patients with septicemia with normal platelet-rich plasma. The potency of various species of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria to induce irreversible platelet aggregation was then determined in an aggregometer. The aggregation curves produced by the bacteria resembled the normal platelet response to collagen and were impeded by the presence of aspirin. Strains of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolated from 25 different patients produced maximum increases in light transmission and irreversible platelet aggregation with relatively rapid mean aggregation times; six of these patients had clinical and laboratory evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation. In contrast, isolates of alpha streptococcus and Staphylococcus epidermidis induced irreversible platelet aggregation much less commonly and were associated with considerably longer mean aggregation times. None of the latter group of patients had evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation. Isolates of bacteria from a small number of patients with subacute bacterial endocarditis uniformly induced irreversible platelet aggregation. Addition of paired bacterial isolates to normal platelet-rich plasma demonstrated a synergistic aggregation response. These data suggest that a relative hierarchy exists in bacterial strain potency to induce irreversible platelet aggregation. The rapidity and degree of aggregation in vitro correlated well with the clinical and laboratory evidence for subacute bacterial endocarditis and disseminated intravascular coagulation in vivo. These observations may provide useful adjunctive laboratory information to help establish the diagnosis of subacute bacterial endocarditis, especially in the clinical setting where the classical findings of endocarditis are not obvious during initial presentation.
Effect of Bacteroides fragilis cellular components on chemotactic activity of polymorphonuclear leukocytes towards Escherichia coli.	Chemotaxis of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) in response to cell components of Bacteroides fragilis alone or in combination with Escherichia coli was evaluated. E. coli produced much more powerful chemotactic factors than B. fragilis. The culture filtrate (CF), outer membrane (OM) preparation, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of B. fragilis slightly stimulated chemotactic activity of PMNL. The culture filtrate and OM preparation were capable of inhibiting the chemotaxis of PMNL in response to the chemotactic factors of E. coli but LPS of B. fragilis was not able to do so. Reduction by B. fragilis of PMNL chemotaxis in response to E. coli was not specific for B. fragilis but also occurred in the presence of facultative bacteria. In parallel with chemotaxis, lysozyme release, but not beta-glucuronidase release, by PMNL was significantly stimulated by E. coli but not by B. fragilis.
Bacterial adherence on replicas of sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels.	A method for determining which molecules in a complex mixture of proteins can function as bacterial receptors was devised. Salivary proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and transferred to nitrocellulose. Bacteria that were metabolically labeled with 3H or externally labeled with 125I were incubated on the nitrocellulose replicas. After 18 h at 4 degrees C, the unbound cells were removed by repeated washing of the replicas, and the bands to which the radiolabeled bacteria bound were visualized by autoradiography. By this technique, Fusobacterium nucleatum, which adheres via carbohydrate residues on receptor molecules, and Staphylococcus aureus, which recognizes the peptide portion of fibronectin, were shown to bind specifically to their respective receptors. These results suggest that this method can be useful for profiling bacterial binding to either the carbohydrate or the protein portions of molecules present in complex mixtures, such as those composing biological fluids or tissue substrates. Structural specificities, such as recognition sequences formed by certain oligosaccharides, could be further investigated by adding the appropriate simple sugars, as well as oligosaccharide inhibitors, to the incubation medium. The latter approach is particularly important since most glycoproteins carry multiple N- and O-linked carbohydrate substituents that could serve as bacterial receptors.
Induction of thyroid autoantibody production: synergistic effect of B cell mitogen combined with T cell mitogen.	In vitro production of thyroglobulin autoantibodies (TgAb) and thyroid microsomal autoantibodies (McAb) by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) stimulated with the B cell mitogen Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I (SAC) and the T cell mitogen pokeweed mitogen (PWM) was examined in 35 normal subjects (NC) and 64 patients with autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique. Low concentrations of SAC plus PWM resulted in a synergistic effect on thyroid autoantibody production as well as nonspecific immunoglobulin G production. With such maximal stimulation, TgAb production was detected in all PBMC preparations from serum TgAb-positive patients with AITD; TgAb production was also detected in some NC (46%) and serum TgAb-negative patients with AITD (39%), but the levels of TgAb production were low. Similarly, McAb production was marked in PBMC preparations from serum TgAb-negative but McAb-positive patients. TgAb-secreting cells were also detected in NC by the plaque-forming cell (PFC) assay. The response patterns of PBMC to mitogen (Nil, PWM, and SAC plus PWM) in terms of TgAb production varied among serum TgAb-positive patients with AITD, but not among NC and serum TgAb-negative patients with AITD. Serum TgAb titers were significantly correlated with the in vitro production of TgAb by PBMC with no stimulation (r = 0.64; n = 99; P less than 0.001), with stimulation by PWM (r = 0.75), and with stimulation by SAC plus PWM (r = 0.87); the correlation coefficient increased with the efficiency of stimulation of B cell differentiation. Similar results were found for McAb production. These data suggest that 1) optimal in vitro thyroid autoantibody production occurs with B cell mitogen (SAC) acting synergistically with T cell mitogen (PWM); 2) sufficient numbers of resting B lymphocytes specific for Tg or microsomal antigens are present in some NC PBMC; 3) stages of thyroid-specific B cell differentiation in PBMC vary among serum thyroid autoantibody-positive patients with AITD; and 4) the potential of PBMC to produce thyroid autoantibodies may correlate with the capacity of thyroid-derived lymphocytes. Thus, the circulating lymphocytes may provide a useful vehicle by which sequential changes occurring at the tissue level may be examined.
Staphylococcal adherence to chicken cartilage.	Immature chicken cartilage was incubated in a Staphylococcus aureus suspension and then washed. Scanning electron microscopy and radiolabel measurements showed increased adherence to cartilage with increasing bacterial concentration. Preheating of the bacteria did not reduce the adherence property, but trypsin treatment did.
Persistent neuropsychological sequelae of toxic shock syndrome.	Twelve women, aged 16 to 29 years, were interviewed and examined for possible neuropsychological sequelae 2 to 12 months after they recovered from toxic shock syndrome. Six of the 12 women had symptoms such as difficulty concentrating, headache, recent memory lapses, inability to compute, and loss of other higher integrative functions. Eight patients were found to have electroencephalographic abnormalities. All six symptomatic patients but no asymptomatic patients had abnormal neurologic findings. Abnormalities such as impaired memory and calculation and poorly sustained concentration were found in five of six symptomatic patients but in no asymptomatic patient. Six control subjects, all asymptomatic women aged 17 to 29 years, were interviewed and examined 2 to 12 months after they recovered from postpartum endometritis; these subjects were normal in all parameters tested. A direct effect of the staphylococcal toxin on the central nervous system may be the cause of these sequelae.
Toxic shock syndrome surveillance in the United States, 1980 to 1981.	Between 1 January 1980 and 18 October 1981, investigators from the Centers for Disease Control collected information on 1407 cases of toxic shock syndrome using a nationwide passive surveillance system. Ninety-two percent of the reported cases were associated with menstruation. Information available on the type of menstrual device used shows that 99% of the cases occurred in tampon users. Menstrual cases occurred predominantly in whites (98%) under the age of 25 (65%). The case/fatality ratio for menstrual toxic shock syndrome was 3.1% for cases with onset in 1981. The distribution of reported cases by date of onset showed a gradual increase in the number reported before the summer of 1980, a sharp increase during the summer and early fall of 1980, a marked decrease in the late fall of 1980, and a subsequent gradual decrease. Factors affecting the incidence and reporting of toxic shock syndrome during these periods include changes in the number of tampon users, changes in the availability and usage patterns of tampons, changes in the prevalence of toxin-producing strains of Staphylococcus aureus, improved recognition of the syndrome, and publicity.
Possible mechanisms for vaginal infection with Staphylococcus aureus: inferences drawn from studies of nosocomial infection of newborn infants and surgical patients.	Previous epidemiologic studies of staphylococcal infections in newborn infants and surgical patients provide clues to the method of infection in toxic shock syndrome. In newborn infants, staphylococci were shown to be transmitted most often by the hands of nursery personnel to the umbilical stump, which afforded a warm, moist milieu for bacterial growth. Studies indicated that many surgical wound infections were due to the patients' own organisms, which were carried into the operating room on the patient's skin. It is hypothesized that in toxic shock syndrome the tampon becomes contaminated with a staphylococcal strain from the woman's own hands or skin during the process of insertion. With menstrual blood retained by the tampon in the warm vagina acting as a culture medium, the organism multiplies and elaborates toxin.
Staphylococcal pyrogenic exotoxin type C: further characterization.	Staphylococcal pyrogenic exotoxin type C was purified by differential precipitation with ethanol and resolubilization in water followed by thin-layer isoelectric focusing. The purified toxin migrated as a homogeneous protein when re-electrofocused in polyacrylamide (isoelectric point, 7.2), when subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (molecular weight, 22,000 daltons), and when reacted against hyperimmune antisera in an Ouchterlony immunodiffusion plate. A 2200-fold purification of the toxin could be obtained. Pyrogenic exotoxin C was elaborated by all of 44 Staphylococcus aureus isolates from patients with toxic shock syndrome when the strains were tested in a blind manner, but five of 37 control isolates produced toxin (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, all of 91 additional isolates from patients with toxic shock syndrome from diverse geographic locations were positive for toxin. In contrast, 158 of 609 (26%) S. aureus isolates not associated with toxic shock syndrome and one of 22 Staphylococcus epidermidis isolates were positive for pyrogenic exotoxin type C. The biological properties of pyrogenic exotoxin C included pyrogenicity, enhancement of susceptibility to endotoxin shock, enhancement of skin reactivity to give a positive Dick reaction, suppressions of IgM synthesis, and nonspecific T-lymphocyte mitogenicity.
Interactions between antibiotics and human neutrophils in the killing of staphylococci.	Normal and antibiotic-pretreated staphylococci were incubated with human neutrophils to determine the interactions between cells and antimicrobials in the killing of the organisms. Staphylococcus aureus 502A pretreated during log-phase growth with subinhibitory ((1/4) minimum inhibiting concentration) (MIC) concentrations of penicillin G were more susceptible to killing by normal neutrophils than untreated bacteria (intracellular survival 0.17+/-0.04 vs. 1.5+/-0.38%, mean+/-SEM, respectively, at 35 min in 14 experiments; P < 0.01 by t test). Furthermore, this enhanced susceptibility to killing was observed even when phagosome formation was inhibited by cytochalasin B (65.6+/-4.6% pencillintreated vs. 30.5+/-4.5% untreated killed at 30 min in 14 experiments, P < 0.001). Pretreatment of S. aureus with vancomycin similarly enhanced susceptibility to killing by cytochalasin B-treated polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN), whereas pretreatment with gentamicin did not. The enchancement of killing by pretreatment with cell wall-active antibiotics was present in a dose-response fashion to 1/16th the MIC. It required specific antimicrobial activity; i.e., penicillin activity was inhibited by penicillinase or by incubation with bacteria at 4 degrees C. It also required active cellular metabolism and intact neutrophils. For antibiotic-pretreated bacteria to be killed by normal and cytochalasin B-treated cells, phagocytosis or binding to the cells was essential via a serum opsonindependent mechanism. In experiments with the cytochalasin B-treated cells, all bound penicillin-treated bacteria were killed vs. only a fraction (70%) of the bound untreated bacteria. Penicillin in 10 times the MIC had no direct effects on PMN phagocytic, metabolic, or microbicidal functions against a nonsusceptible organism, Candida albicans. The results indicate a cooperative effect between cell wall-active antibiotics at low concentrations and human PMN in the killing of staphylococci. The model establishes conditions for the study of the mechanisms involved in the cooperation of these bactericidal systems.
Interactions between dermatophyte fungi and staphylococci or Brevibacterium in vitro.	Interactions between dermatophyte fungi and staphylococci or brevibacteria on a new skin-based culture medium are described. Penicillin production by the fungus selects penicillin resistant S. aureus or B. epidermidis. Fungi are inhibited by brevibacteria but not by the staphylococci. "Keratolysis" by fungi may contribute to the growth nutrients of staphylococci.
Reduced microbicidal and anti-tumour activities of human monocytes after ingestion of Plasmodium falciparum-infected red blood cells.	Oxidatively stressed red blood cells (RBC) and Plasmodium falciparum-infected RBC (PRBC) are avidly phagocytosed by human peripheral monocytes. Following the ingestion of PRBC the monocytes' ability to phagocytose PRBC and to generate aggressive oxidative compounds is severely impaired. In the present work the microbicidal and anti-tumour capacities of monocytes fed with diamide-treated RBC and PRBC harbouring mature (trophozoite) parasites have been investigated. The capacity of the latter, but not of the former, to phagocytose Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus and to kill them, as well as ingested Candida albicans cells intracellularly, was found to be markedly impaired. Monocytes that have ingested PRBC had a significantly reduced cytostatic and cytolytic activities against a lymphoblastic tumour cell line. Monocytes fed with oxidatively stressed RBC had normal or sometimes even greater anti-tumour activities. Monocytes that have ingested PRBC showed a reduced capability to produce superoxide following stimulation with phorbol ester. Such impairment in monocyte functions may explain the reduced antibacterial and anti-tumour activities of monocytes in malaria patients, and could be consequential to their ability to resist bacterial infections and to provide means for the control of tumour development in those patients.
Dysregulation of interleukin 8, interleukin 10, and interleukin 12 release by alveolar macrophages from HIV type 1-infected subjects.	We examined the in vitro release of interleukin 8 (IL-8), interleukin 10 (IL-10), and interleukin 12 (IL-12) by alveolar macrophages from normal volunteers and HIV-1-infected subjects. Normal volunteers had very low levels of IL-8 and IL-10 and undetectable IL-12 in the cell-free bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). Asymptomatic HIV-1-infected subjects had elevated levels of IL-8 and IL-10 in their BALF, and HIV-1-infected subjects with nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis (NIP) or infected with Pneumocystis carinii had the highest BALF levels of IL-10 and IL-8. It was found that alveolar macrophages from asymptomatic HIV-1 subjects and from NIP subjects spontaneously released elevated IL-8, IL-10, and IL-12. However, AIDS subjects infected with P. carinii had cells that released elevated levels of IL-10 and IL-8, but low levels of IL-12. When alveolar macrophages were stimulated with Staphylococcus aureus Cowan (SAC), cells from normal volunteers responded with a considerably increased release of IL-8, IL-10, and IL-12; cells from HIV-1-infected subjects without P. carinii infection responded with a moderate increase in release of all three monokines. SAC stimulation did not enhance the release of monokines by cells from AIDS subjects with P. carinii infection, and IL-12 levels remained low. There was no strict relationship between spontaneous cytokine release and p24 HIV-1 antigen expression by alveolar macrophages. Finally, we showed that neutralizing IL-10 production by alveolar macrophages from AIDS subjects substantially increased IL-12 releasability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Role of lectins in allergic reactivity]	Skin reaction on phytohemagglutinin in healthy people and in patients with allergic bronchial asthma before and after specific hyposensitization has been studied. The attempt to determine interrelations between the skin sensitivity to phytohemagglutinin and some immunity indexes and to explain several links of lectins' action mechanisms during allergic processes have been made.
Biomaterial-associated staphylococcal peritoneal infections in a neutropaenic mouse model.	Adhesion of staphylococcal cells to polyethylene with end point-attached heparin was quantified by bioluminescence. Staphylococcus epidermidis 3380 and the slime-producing S. epidermidis RP12 adhered to the highest extent, and S. lugdunensis 2342 to the least extent. Preincubation of the polymer with dialysis fluid reduced adhesion of S. epidermidis 3380 and RP12 but enhanced that of S. aureus, and preadsorption of the surface with fibronectin decreased subsequent adhesion of S. epidermidis and S. haemolyticus strains. When staphylococci were grown in the presence of a biomaterial their ability to activate peritoneal cells was decreased. The bactericidal activity was impaired, whereas ingestion of opsonized coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) strains was unaffected. With S. epidermidis RP12 the presence of biomaterial did not influence either phagocytosis or bactericidal effect of peritoneal cells. After intra-peritoneal challenge with staphylococcal strains, the organ uptake of S. aureus Cowan 1 was increased in normal mice whereas immunosuppressed mice died. CNS strains increased mainly in the peritoneal cavity of immunosuppressed mice. The uptake of bacteria in liver and kidneys was increased with S. epidermidis 3380, S. lugdunensis 2343 and S. schleiferi 667-88. Generally, CNS strains persisted in the peritoneal cavity of both normal and immunosuppressed mice. These data indicate that host defense mechanisms, mainly polymorphonuclear neutrophils, fail to eliminate CNS infections in the peritoneum, and that initial adhesion to an implanted biomaterial may be of lesser importance in the peritoneal cavity than in e.g. catheter-associated infections. There are strain-specific virulence factors of bacteria, and slime producing strains evade the host defense mechanisms more efficiently than non-slime producing strains.
Thermosensitivity is reduced during fever induced by Staphylococcus aureus cells walls in rabbits.	Thermosensitivity (TS) and threshold core temperature for metabolic cold defence were determined in six conscious rabbits before, and at seven different times after i.v. injection of killed Staphylococcus aureus (8 x 10(7) or 2 x 10(7) cell walls x kg(-1)) by exposure to short periods (5-10 min) of body cooling. Heat was extracted with a chronically implanted intravascular heat exchanger. TS was calculated by regression of metabolic heat production (M) and core temperature, as indicated by hypothalamic temperature. Threshold for cold defence (shivering threshold) was calculated as the core temperature at which the thermosensitivity line crossed preinjection resting M. The shivering thresholds followed the shape of the fever response. TS was significantly reduced (up to 49%) during the time course of fever induced by the highest dose of pyrogen only. At both high and low doses of pyrogen TS correlated negatively with shivering threshold (r = 0.66 and 0.79 respectively) with similar slopes. The reduction in TS during fever was thus associated with the increase in shivering threshold resulting from the pyrogen injection and not by the dose of pyrogen. Model considerations indicate, however, that changes in sensitivity of the thermosensory input to the hypothalamic controller may affect threshold changes but cause negligible TS changes. It is more likely that the reduction in TS is effected in the specific hypothalamic effector pathways.
Bacterial translocation and wasting in stressed mice.	The effects of stress on immunity and on the bacterial translocation from intestine to mesenteric lymph nodes, liver, and spleen were studied in a group of newborn CD1 mice. Animals were separated into three experimental groups. Mice from group I were stressed by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of heat-killed staphylococci for 4 weeks. Mice from group II were i.p. injected with saline solution only. The remaining mice, group III, were not injected. The clinical condition, presence of bacteria in abdominal organs, mitochondrial activity in splenic cells, lymphocyte proliferative response to Concanavalin-A and in vitro antibody production were evaluated in each mouse. Results showed that prolonged i.p. stressor challenge causes severe weight loss and immunodeficiency. The splenic lymphocytes from stressed mice exhibited a significant depression of both proliferative response to Concanavalin-A stimulation and anti-erythrocytes antibody synthesis. Instead, cultured in basal conditions, the splenic cells from stressed mice have an increased capacity to reduce the tetrazolium salts. Bacterial dissemination from intestine to mesenteric lymphoid nodes was also confirmed in the same group of mice. In contrast, mice in groups II and III presented no weight loss and no immunodeficiency. Results suggest that chronic biological stress induced in newborn mice could facilitate the translocation of Gram-negative bacteria. Probable pathogenic mechanisms are commented upon and a correlation is proposed between the bacterial dissemination and the wasting development.
Bacteriolytic activity in staphylococci.	The bacteriolytic activity of Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus albus strains was tested with various media. Whereas S. aureus strains were found to be active under all conditions, the percentage of active S. albus strains was significantly influenced by the composition of the medium. Ionic strength and concentration of the organic nitrogen source were found to be the main factors affecting the expression of bacteriolytic activity of straphylococci. Virtually all of 318 S. aureus and 603 S. albus strains were active on a medium containing 3% peptone, 0.3% glucose, 0.2% yeast extract, 0.1% disodium phosphate, 2.2% sodium chloride and 0.9% agar. The optimal conditions for the bacteriolytic activity of S. aureus strains were different from those of most S. albus strains. Within S. albus, optimal conditions differed also from strain to strain. It is suggested that further studies on this subject may prove useful for the identification and taxonomy of staphylococci. A possible relationship between the production of extracellular bacteriolytic enzymes and pathogenic properties of staphylococci is also considered.
Bacterial phagocytosis activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in human neutrophils.	The hypothesis that bacterial phagocytosis by human polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) stimulates MAPK cascades that regulate respiratory burst activation was tested. Extracellular response kinase (ERK) and p38 kinase, but not c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase, activities were increased within 5 min of phagocytosis of plasma-opsonized Staphylococcus aureus (S-SA), reached maximum at 20-30 min, and remained elevated through 60 min. The role of Fcy receptors was examined using gamma globulin-opsonized SA (IgG-SA), whereas CR3 receptors were activated by particulate beta-glucan. IgG-SA stimulated a maximal ERK activity at 30 min, whereas p38 activity was maximal at 5 min. Beta-glucan stimulated maximal ERK activity at 5 min and maximal p38 activity at 2 min. Non-opsonized bacteria were ingested at 10% of the level of S-SA and stimulated a minimal increase in ERK and p38 activity at 60 min. S-SA stimulation of ERK was inhibited by wortmannin, LY294002, and genistein, but not calphostin C; whereas p38 stimulation was inhibited by calphostin C and genistein, but not wortmannin and LY294002. Simultaneous measurement of phagocytosis and H2O2 production by flow cytometry was used to assess the role of ERKs and p38 kinase in phagocytosis. The MEK inhibitor PD098059 had no significant effect on phagocytosis or H2O2 production. The p38 kinase inhibitor SB203580 significantly attenuated H2O2 production, whereas phagocytosis was unaffected. In conclusion, bacterial phagocytosis stimulates ERK and p38 activation by distinct signal transduction pathways. Phagocytosis-stimulated p38 kinase activity is necessary for optimal H2O2 production.
