Staphylococcus schleiferi subsp. schleiferi expresses a fibronectin-binding protein.	Staphylococcus schleiferi subsp. schleiferi is associated with a range of nosocomial infections, but the pathogenic mechanisms by which these occur are poorly understood. This study provides phenotypic and genotypic evidence for the expression of a cell wall-anchored fibronectin-binding protein by this species.
NMR-spectroscopic mapping of an engineered cavity in the I14A mutant of HPr from Staphylococcus carnosus using xenon.	The interaction between the histidine-containing phosphocarrier protein HPr and xenon atoms in solution is studied in the present paper. Wild-type HPr as well as the exchange mutant I14A have been studied. Specific binding of xenon into an engineered cavity created via the exchange of amino acid residue I14 by alanine could be shown using 1H-15N heteronuclear single-quantum coherence (HSQC) spectroscopy. Xenon binding results in pronounced changes of the 1H and 15N chemical shifts of amide groups close to the cavity. In addition to this observation which allows the NMR-spectroscopic mapping of such cavities, we have shown that the entire molecule is slightly rearranged as a result of xenon binding. In contrast, wild-type HPr only exhibits minor chemical shift changes due to the nonspecific interactions with the xenon atoms in solution.
Use of the phase diagram method to analyze the protein unfolding-refolding reactions: fishing out the "invisible" intermediates.	Partially folded conformations are important players in protein self-organization, function, and misfolding, thus attracting the intensive and constant attention of researchers. Different conformational states of proteins can be easily discriminated from one another using the multiparametric approach, which usually involves the application of several physicochemical methods sensitive to the various structural levels of a protein molecule. This approach gives the most complete information about the structural changes in protein during its de- and renaturation. However, in many cases researches are interested in a brief and simple test for the appearance of an intermediate state. The binding of the hydrophobic fluorescent probe ANS represents one of the well-established techniques, allowing the retrieval of such information. We are introducing another approach, based on the analysis of the spectroscopic data in a form of spectral diagrams. The essence of this method is to build the Ilambda1, versus Ilambda2 dependence, where Ilambda1 and Ilambda2 are the spectral intensity values (e.g., fluorescence, CD, FTIR, absorbance, etc.) measured on wavelengths lambda1 and lambda2. We are showing that this approach gives the detailed description of the protein unfolding pathway, detects the numerous partially folded species, and even fishes out the hidden intermediates. An application of this method for the analysis of the equilibrium and kinetic unfolding/refolding of several proteins under the variety of conditions is described. Advantages and disadvantages of the technique suggested are also discussed.
Infrequent cavity-forming fluctuations in HPr from Staphylococcus carnosus revealed by pressure- and temperature-dependent tyrosine ring flips.	Infrequent structural fluctuations of a globular protein is seldom detected and studied in detail. One tyrosine ring of HPr from Staphylococcus carnosus, an 88-residue phosphocarrier protein with no disulfide bonds, undergoes a very slow ring flip, the pressure and temperature dependence of which is studied in detail using the on-line cell high-pressure nuclear magnetic resonance technique in the pressure range from 3 MPa to 200 MPa and in the temperature range from 257 K to 313 K. The ring of Tyr6 is buried sandwiched between a beta-sheet and alpha-helices (the water-accessible area is less than 0.26 nm2), its hydroxyl proton being involved in an internal hydrogen bond. The ring flip rates 10(1)-10(5) s(-1) were determined from the line shape analysis of H(delta1, delta2) and H(epsilon1,epsilon2) of Tyr6, giving an activation volume DeltaV++ of 0.044 +/- 0.008 nm3 (27 mL mol(-1)), an activation enthalpy DeltaH++ of 89 +/- 10 kJ mol(-1), and an activation entropy DeltaS++ of 16 +/- 2 JK(-1) mol(-1). The DeltaV++) and DeltaH++ values for HPr found previously for Tyr and Phe ring flips of BPTI and cytochrome c fall within the range of DeltaV(double dagger) of 28 to 51 mL mol(-1) and DeltaH++ of 71 to 155 kJ mol(-1). The fairly common DeltaV++ and DeltaH++ values are considered to represent the extra space or cavity required for the ring flip and the extra energy required to create a cavity, respectively, in the core part of a globular protein. Nearly complete cold denaturation was found to take place at 200 MPa and 257 K independently from the ring reorientation process.
Chemotaxonomic identification of single bacteria by micro-Raman spectroscopy: application to clean-room-relevant biological contaminations.	Microorganisms, such as bacteria, which might be present as contamination inside an industrial food or pharmaceutical clean room process need to be identified on short time scales in order to minimize possible health hazards as well as production downtimes causing financial deficits. Here we describe the first results of single-particle micro-Raman measurements in combination with a classification method, the so-called support vector machine technique, allowing for a fast, reliable, and nondestructive online identification method for single bacteria.
SdrI, a serine-aspartate repeat protein identified in Staphylococcus saprophyticus strain 7108, is a collagen-binding protein.	A gene encoding a serine-aspartate repeat protein of Staphylococcus saprophyticus, an important cause of urinary tract infections in young women, has been cloned and sequenced. In contrast to other SD repeat proteins, SdrI carries 21 additional N-terminal repeats with a consensus sequence of (P/A)ATKE(K/E)A(A/V)(T/I)(A/T/S)EE and has the longest SD(AD)(1-5) repetitive region (854 amino acids) described so far. This highly repetitive sequence contains only the amino acids serine, asparagine, and a distinctly greater amount of alanine (37%) than all other known SD repeat proteins (2.3 to 4.4%). In addition, it is a collagen-binding protein of S. saprophyticus and the second example in this organism of a surface protein carrying the LPXTG motif. We constructed an isogenic sdrI knockout mutant that showed decreased binding to immobilized collagen compared with wild-type S. saprophyticus strain 7108. Binding could be reconstituted by complementation. Collagen binding is specifically caused by SdrI, and the recently described UafA protein, the only LPXTG-containing protein in the genome sequence of the type strain, is not involved in this trait. Our experiments suggest that, as in other staphylococci, the presence of different LPXTG-anchored cell wall proteins is common in S. saprophyticus and support the notion that the presence of matrix-binding surface proteins is common in staphylococci.
Susceptibility of staphylococcal biofilms to enzymatic treatments depends on their chemical composition.	Bacterial infections are serious complications after orthopaedic implant surgery. Staphylococci, with Staphylococcus epidermidis as a leading species, are the prevalent and most important species involved in orthopaedic implant-related infections. The biofilm mode of growth of these bacteria on an implant surface protects the organisms from the host's immune system and from antibiotic therapy. Therapeutic agents that disintegrate the biofilm matrix would release planktonic cells into the environment and therefore allow antibiotics to eliminate the bacteria. An addition of a biofilm-degrading agent to a solution used for washing-draining procedures of infected orthopaedic implants would greatly improve the efficiency of the procedure and thus help to avoid the removal of the implant. We have previously shown that the extracellular staphylococcal matrix consists of a poly-N-acetylglucosamine (PNAG), extracellular teichoic acids (TAs) and protein components. In this study, we accessed the sensitivity of pre-formed biofilms of five clinical staphylococcal strains associated with orthopaedic prosthesis infections and with known compositions of the biofilm matrix to periodate, Pectinex Ultra SP, proteinase K, trypsin, pancreatin and dispersin B, an enzyme with a PNAG-hydrolysing activity. We also tested the effect of these agents on the purified carbohydrate components of staphylococcal biofilms, PNAG and TA. We found that the enzymatic detachment of staphylococcal biofilms depends on the nature of their constituents and varies between the clinical isolates. We suggest that a treatment with dispersin B followed by a protease (proteinase K or trypsin) could be capable to eradicate biofilms of a variety of staphylococcal strains on inert surfaces.
Molecular characterization of the interaction of staphylococcal microbial surface components recognizing adhesive matrix molecules (MSCRAMM) ClfA and Fbl with fibrinogen.	The ligand-binding domain of Fbl (the fibrinogen binding protein from Staphylococcus lugdunensis) shares 60% sequence identity with ClfA (clumping factor A) of Staphylococcus aureus. Recombinant Fbl corresponding to the minimum fibrinogen-binding region (subdomains N2N3) was compared with ClfA for binding to fibrinogen. Fbl and ClfA had very similar affinities for fibrinogen by surface plasmon resonance. The binding site for Fbl in fibrinogen was localized to the extreme C terminus of the fibrinogen gamma-chain at the same site recognized by ClfA. Isothermal titration calorimetry showed that Fbl and ClfA had very similar affinities for a peptide mimicking the C-terminal segment of the fibrinogen gamma-chain. The peptide also inhibited binding of Fbl and ClfA to fibrinogen. A series of substituted gamma-chain variant peptides behaved very similarly when used to inhibit ClfA and Fbl binding to immobilized fibrinogen. Both ClfA and Fbl bound to bovine fibrinogen with a lower affinity compared with human fibrinogen and did not bind detectably to ovine fibrinogen. The structure of the N2N3 subdomains of Fbl in complex with the fibrinogen gamma-chain peptide was modeled based on the crystal structure of the N2N3 subdomains of the ClfA-gamma-chain peptide complex. Residues in the putative binding trench likely to be involved in fibrinogen binding were identified. Fbl variant proteins with alanine substitutions in key residues had reduced affinities for fibrinogen. Thus Fbl and ClfA bind the same site in fibrinogen by similar mechanisms.
Size control and catalytic activity of bio-supported palladium nanoparticles.	The development of nanoparticles has greatly improved the catalytic properties of metals due to the higher surface to volume ratio of smaller particles. The production of nanoparticles is most commonly based on abiotic processes, but in the search for alternative protocols, bacterial cells have been identified as excellent scaffolds of nanoparticle nucleation, and bacteria have been successfully employed to recover and regenerate platinum group metals from industrial waste. We report on the formation of bio-supported palladium (Pd) nanoparticles on the surface of two bacterial species with distinctly different surfaces: the gram positive Staphylococcus sciuri and the gram negative Cupriavidus necator. We investigated how the type of bacterium and the amount of biomass affected the size and catalytic properties of the nanoparticles formed. By increasing the biomass:Pd ratio, we could produce bio-supported Pd nanoparticles smaller than 10nm in diameter, whereas lower biomass:Pd ratios resulted in particles ranging from few to hundreds of nm. The bio-supported Pd nanoparticle catalytic properties were investigated towards the Suzuki-Miyaura cross coupling reaction and hydrogenation reactions. Surprisingly, the smallest nanoparticles obtained at the highest biomass:Pd ratio showed no reactivity towards the test reactions. The lack of reactivity appears to be caused by thiol groups, which poison the catalyst by binding strongly to Pd. Different treatments intended to liberate particles from the biomass, such as burning or rinsing in acetone, did not re-establish their catalytic activity. Sulphur-free biomaterials should therefore be explored as more suitable scaffolds for Pd(0) nanoparticle formation.
Predicting pKa values with continuous constant pH molecular dynamics.	Knowledge of pK(a) values is important for understanding structure and function relationships in proteins. Over the past two decades, theoretical methods for pK(a) calculations have been mainly based on macroscopic models, in which the protein is considered as a low-dielectric cavity embedded in a high-dielectric continuum. In recent years, constant pH molecular dynamics methods have been developed based on a microscopic description of the protein. We describe here the methodology of continuous constant pH molecular dynamics (CPHMD), which has emerged as one of the most robust and accurate tools for predicting protein pK(a)s and for the study of pH-modulated conformational dynamics. We illustrate the utility of CPHMD by the calculation of pK(a)s for surface residues in ribonuclease A, buried residues in staphylococcal nuclease, and titratable groups in the intrinsically flexible protein α-lactalbumin. We will compare the CPHMD results with experimental data as well as calculations from PB-based and empirical methods. These examples demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of the CPHMD method and its ability to capture the correlation between ionization equilibria and conformational dynamics as well as the local dielectric response to structural rearrangement. Finally, we discuss future improvement of the CPHMD method.
Therapeutic down-modulators of staphylococcal superantigen-induced inflammation and toxic shock.	Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) and related superantigenic toxins are potent stimulators of the immune system and cause a variety of diseases in humans, ranging from food poisoning to toxic shock. These toxins bind directly to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules on antigen-presenting cells and specific Vβ regions of T-cell receptors (TCR), resulting in hyperactivation of both monocytes/macrophages and T lymphocytes. Activated host cells produce massive amounts of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, activating inflammation and coagulation, causing clinical symptoms that include fever, hypotension, and shock. This review summarizes the in vitro and in vivo effects of staphylococcal superantigens, the role of pivotal mediators induced by these toxins in the pathogenic mechanisms of tissue injury, and the therapeutic agents to mitigate the toxic effects of superantigens.
Protein dynamics viewed by hydrogen exchange.	To examine the relationship between protein structural dynamics and measurable hydrogen exchange (HX) data, the detailed exchange behavior of most of the backbone amide hydrogens of Staphylococcal nuclease was compared with that of their neighbors, with their structural environment, and with other information. Results show that H-bonded hydrogens are protected from exchange, with HX rate effectively zero, even when they are directly adjacent to solvent. The transition to exchange competence requires a dynamic structural excursion that removes H-bond protection and allows exposure to solvent HX catalyst. The detailed data often make clear the nature of the dynamic excursion required. These range from whole molecule unfolding, through smaller cooperative unfolding reactions of secondary structural elements, and down to local fluctuations that involve as little as a single peptide group or side chain or water molecule. The particular motion that dominates the exchange of any hydrogen is the one that allows the fastest HX rate. The motion and the rate it produces are determined by surrounding structure and not by nearness to solvent or the strength of the protecting H-bond itself or its acceptor type (main chain, side chain, structurally bound water). Many of these motions occur over time scales that are appropriate for biochemical function.
Protein hydrogen exchange: testing current models.	To investigate the determinants of protein hydrogen exchange (HX), HX rates of most of the backbone amide hydrogens of Staphylococcal nuclease were measured by NMR methods. A modified analysis was used to improve accuracy for the faster hydrogens. HX rates of both near surface and well buried hydrogens are spread over more than 7 orders of magnitude. These results were compared with previous hypotheses for HX rate determination. Contrary to a common assumption, proximity to the surface of the native protein does not usually produce fast exchange. The slow HX rates for unprotected surface hydrogens are not well explained by local electrostatic field. The ability of buried hydrogens to exchange is not explained by a solvent penetration mechanism. The exchange rates of structurally protected hydrogens are not well predicted by algorithms that depend only on local interactions or only on transient unfolding reactions. These observations identify some of the present difficulties of HX rate prediction and suggest the need for returning to a detailed hydrogen by hydrogen analysis to examine the bases of structure-rate relationships, as described in the companion paper (Skinner et al., Protein Sci 2012;21:996-1005).
PI3K/Akt/mTOR, a pathway less recognized for staphylococcal superantigen-induced toxicity.	Immunostimulating staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) and related superantigenic toxins cause diseases in humans and laboratory animals by activating cells of the immune system. These toxins bind directly to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules on antigen-presenting cells and specific V&#946; regions of T-cell receptors (TCR), resulting in hyperactivation of both T lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages. Activated host cells produce excessive amounts of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, especially tumor necrosis factor &#945;, interleukin 1 (IL-1), IL-2, interferon &#947; (IFN&#947;), and macrophage chemoattractant protein 1 causing clinical symptoms of fever, hypotension, and shock. The well-explored signal transduction pathways for SEB-induced toxicity downstream from TCR/MHC ligation and interaction of cell surface co-stimulatory molecules include the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and cytokine receptor signaling, culminating in NF&#954;B activation. Independently, IL-2, IFN&#947;, and chemokines from activated T cells signal via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), the serine/threonine kinases, Akt and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathways. This article reviews the signaling molecules induced by superantigens in the activation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways leading to staphylococcal superantigen-induced toxicity and updates potential therapeutics against superantigens.
Production and characterization of a halo-, solvent-, thermo-tolerant alkaline lipase by Staphylococcus arlettae JPBW-1, isolated from rock salt mine.	Studies on lipase production and characterization were carried out with a bacterial strain Staphylococcus arlettae JPBW-1 isolated from rock salt mine, Darang, HP, India. Higher lipase activity has been obtained using 10 % inoculum with 5 % of soybean oil as carbon source utilizing a pH 8.0 in 3 h at 35 °C and 100 rpm through submerged fermentation. Partially purified S. arlettae lipase has been found to be active over a broad range of temperature (30-90 °C), pH (7.0-12.0) and NaCl concentration (0-20 %). It has shown extreme stability with solvents such as benzene, xylene, n-hexane, methanol, ethanol and toluene up to 30 % (v/v). The lipase activity has been found to be inhibited by metal ions of K(+), Co(2+) and Fe (2+) and stimulated by Mn(2+), Ca(2+) and Hg(2+). Lipase activity has been diminished with denaturants, but enhanced effect has been observed with surfactants, such as Tween 80, Tween 40 and chelator EDTA. The K m and V max values were found to be 7.05 mM and 2.67 mmol/min, respectively. Thus, the lipase from S. arlettae may have considerable potential for industrial application from the perspectives of its tolerance towards industrial extreme conditions of pH, temperature, salt and solvent. 
Expression of Staphylococcus saprophyticus surface properties is modulated by composition of the atmosphere.	Expression of two major surface proteins of Staphylococcus saprophyticus, the haemagglutinin and the Staphylococcus saprophyticus surface-associated protein (Ssp), required carefully defined culture conditions. The Ssp is produced when bacteria are grown on agar, whereas expression of the haemagglutinin requires growth in broth. We sought to identify the environmental signals that are responsible for this modulation. Varying the pH, the osmolarity of the growth medium or the temperature did not influence expression of the proteins. In contrast, growth in an anaerobic atmosphere increased haemagglutination titres and fibronectin binding (both mediated by the haemagglutinin) but suppressed production of the Ssp. As the influence of the CO2 level could be excluded, we conclude that expression of these surface proteins is probably modulated by the O2 content of the atmosphere.
A novel, selective synthetic acetamide containing culture medium for isolating Pseudomonas aeruginosa from milk.	A selective synthetic medium has been developed both in liquid (Z-broth) and solid (Z-agar) forms for selective isolation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from foods. The simple, easy to prepare peptone-free synthetic medium contained acetamide that is metabolized to ammonia and acetic acid providing nitrogen and carbon supply. The medium contained no inhibitors. Selectivity of the liquid medium was tested by inoculation of pure cultures of different bacteria belonging to the groups Bacillus, Pseudomonas, Enterobacteriaceae and Staphylococcus. It was found that the selectivity of the medium was complete for the examined range of bacteria. However, a similar result was obtained when nitrofurantoin broth was used. Applicability of the synthetic agar medium was also tested by a nation-wide inter-laboratory test using two milk samples containing 10(3)/ml (sample I) and 10(5)/ml (sample II) Pseudomonas aeruginosa. According to this test, no microbiologically relevant differences were found between the results obtained by Z-agar and cetrimide-agar a frequently used selective agar in case of sample II. However, a relevant and statistically significant difference was found in the results of sample I in favour of the Z-agar, that could indicate the presence of a low number of bacteria. Concerning repeatability and reproducibility, Z-agar proved to be superior to cetrimide agar.
