Chronic intracerebroventricular administration of anti-neuropeptide Y antibody stimulates starvation-induced feeding via compensatory responses in the hypothalamus.	To investigate how compensatory responses develop after the onset of inhibition of NPY signaling, we examined the effect of continuous intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of neutralizing NPY antibodies (NPY-ab) on daily and fast-induced food intake in mice. A single ICV injection of NPY-ab reduced food intake in fasted mice. In contrast to a single injection, continuous ICV injection of NPY-ab for 13 days increased fast-induced food intake, although daily food intake was unaffected by continuous administration of NPY-ab. Immunohistochemistry indicated that the expression of NPY protein increases in the arcuate nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, and paraventricular nucleus 7 days after onset of continuous NPY-ab infusion and remains at an elevated level, whereas the expression of the NPY Y1 receptor transiently increases in the same areas for 3 days and then gradually decreases. Similar results were obtained for the expression of NPY and NPY Y1 receptor mRNA. The mRNA level of agouti-related protein, another orexigenic neuropeptide, also increased in parallel with NPY, whereas that of pro-opiomelanocortin did not change over the 13 days of the NPY-ab administration. These results suggest that chronic central inhibition of NPY immediately activates orexigenic signaling in first-order hypothalamic neurons and that this compensatory mechanism normalizes the regulation of feeding and energy expenditure to maintain energy homeostasis. On the other hand, in mice that have acquired this compensation, fast-induced food intake further increases even after the energy deficit is corrected because of the dominant orexigenic signal.
Preferential loss of body fat during starvation in dietary obese rats.	This study was undertaken to examine whether diet-induced obesity alters the amount and/or composition of weight lost during starvation. The amount and composition of weight lost during a 4-day period of starvation was determined before and at 17, 30 and 42 weeks after rats (350 g of body weight) were given a high fat diet (HFD). To control for effects of aging, a second group of rats, fed standard laboratory chow, was also subjected to similar periods of starvation. Although total weight loss during starvation was never greater for HFD rats than for chow-fed rats, the former group showed a clear patter of increasing loss of body fat and total energy and conservation of fat-free tissues with periods of starvation later in life. In addition, chow-fed rats showed substantial energy conservation during each period of starvation (i.e. they lost less energy each day than their pre-starvation energy requirements). In contrast, HFD rats demonstrated substantial energy conservation only at 17 weeks and not at 30 or 42 weeks; during the last period of starvation, their average daily loss of carcass energy exceeded their pre-starvation energy requirements. This suggests the increased fat mass of these rats may have led to increased fuel availability and to an increased metabolic rate during starvation. If these results are applicable to humans, the more obese subjects are likely to show greater total loss of energy than lean subjects, but show a lesser loss of lean body mass, at least initially. If protein requirements are reflected by the ability to mobilize protein during food restriction, protein requirements would be substantially lower in the dietary obese rats than in controls. In summary, diet-induced obesity leads to preferential loss of body fat and conservation of lean mass during starvation.
Effect of lateral hypothalamic area lesions on serotonin-containing epithelial cells in rat duodenum.	The aphagic effect of lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) lesions induced by kainic acid injection on serotonin (5HT)-containing epithelial cells in rat duodenum was studied in comparison with food deprived rats. The densities of 5HT cells were evaluated by quantitative morphometry using fluorescent histochemical longitudinal sections. The levels of 5HT/mg tissue were determined by HPLC on acid extracts of isolated villous epithelium. Body and duodenal weight losses, as well as duodenal mucosal atrophy, were comparable in the two groups of starved animals, i.e., one is food deprived and the other is lesioned animals. The numbers of 5HT cells in these starved groups were similar to those in controls so that the densities were increased. The 5HT/mg tissue in food-deprived animals was similar to that in controls but significantly higher in the LHA-lesioned group. These results are interpreted in terms of a possible central regulatory mechanism that is intact in the food-deprived animals but destroyed in the lesioned animals.
Autophagy in the lung.	Autophagy is a cellular process for the disposal of damaged organelles or denatured proteins through a lysosomal degradation pathway. By reducing endogenous macromolecules to their basic components (i.e., amino acids, lipids), autophagy serves a homeostatic function by ensuring cell survival during starvation. Increased autophagy can be found in dying cells, although the relationships between autophagy and programmed cell death remain unclear. To date, few studies have examined the regulation and functional significance of autophagy in human lung disease. The lung, a complex organ that functions primarily in gas exchange, consists of diverse cell types (i.e., endothelial, epithelial, mesenchymal, inflammatory). In lung cells, autophagy may represent a general inducible adaptive response to injury resulting from exposure to stress agents, including hypoxia, oxidants, inflammation, ischemia-reperfusion, endoplasmic reticulum stress, pharmaceuticals, or inhaled xenobiotics (i.e., air pollution, cigarette smoke). In recent studies, we have observed increased autophagy in mouse lungs subjected to chronic cigarette smoke exposure, and in pulmonary epithelial cells exposed to cigarette smoke extract. Knockdown of autophagic proteins inhibited apoptosis in response to cigarette smoke exposure in vitro, suggesting that increased autophagy was associated with epithelial cell death. We have also observed increased morphological and biochemical markers of autophagy in human lung specimens from patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We hypothesize that increased autophagy contributes to COPD pathogenesis by promoting epithelial cell death. Further research will examine whether autophagy plays a homeostatic or maladaptive role in COPD and other human lung diseases.
Chaperone-mediated autophagy.	Continuous renewal of intracellular components is required to preserve cellular functionality. In fact, failure to timely turnover proteins and organelles leads often to cell death and disease. Different pathways contribute to the degradation of intracellular components in lysosomes or autophagy. In this review, we focus on chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), a selective form of autophagy that modulates the turnover of a specific pool of soluble cytosolic proteins. Selectivity in CMA is conferred by the presence of a targeting motif in the cytosolic substrates that, upon recognition by a cytosolic chaperone, determines delivery to the lysosomal surface. Substrate proteins undergo unfolding and translocation across the lysosomal membrane before reaching the lumen, where they are rapidly degraded. Better molecular characterization of the different components of this pathway in recent years, along with the development of transgenic models with modified CMA activity and the identification of CMA dysfunction in different severe human pathologies and in aging, are all behind the recent regained interest in this catabolic pathway.
Autophagy in vascular disease.	Autophagy, or "self eating," refers to a regulated cellular process for the lysosomal-dependent turnover of organelles and proteins. During starvation or nutrient deficiency, autophagy promotes survival through the replenishment of metabolic precursors derived from the degradation of endogenous cellular components. Autophagy represents a general homeostatic and inducible adaptive response to environmental stress, including endoplasmic reticulum stress, hypoxia, oxidative stress, and exposure to pharmaceuticals and xenobiotics. Whereas elevated autophagy can be observed in dying cells, the functional relationships between autophagy and programmed cell death pathways remain incompletely understood. Preclinical studies have identified autophagy as a process that can be activated during vascular disorders, including ischemia-reperfusion injury of the heart and other organs, cardiomyopathy, myocardial injury, and atherosclerosis. The functional significance of autophagy in human cardiovascular disease pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, and potentially involves both adaptive and maladaptive outcomes, depending on model system. Although relatively few studies have been performed in the lung, our recent studies also implicate a role for autophagy in chronic lung disease. Manipulation of the signaling pathways that regulate autophagy could potentially provide a novel therapeutic strategy in the prevention or treatment of human disease.
Compensatory responses in common carp (Cyprinus carpio) under ammonia exposure: additional effects of feeding and exercise.	Ammonia is an environmental pollutant that is toxic to all aquatic animals. The toxic effects of ammonia can be modulated by other physiological processes such as feeding and swimming. In this study, we wanted to examine these modulating effects in common carp (Cyprinus carpio). Fish were either fed (2% body weight) or starved (unfed for seven days prior to the sampling), and swimming at a sustainable, routine swimming speed or swum to exhaustion, while being exposed chronically (up to 28 days) to high environmental ammonia (HEA, 1 mg/L ~58.8 μmol/L as NH4Cl at pH 7.9). Swimming performance (critical swimming speed, Ucrit) and metabolic responses such as oxygen consumption rate (MO2), ammonia excretion rate (Jamm), ammonia quotient, liver and muscle energy budget (glycogen, lipid and protein), plasma ammonia and lactate, as well as plasma ion concentrations (Na(+), Cl(-), K(+) and Ca(2+)) were investigated in order to understand metabolic and iono-regulatory consequences of the experimental conditions. Cortisol plays an important role in stress and in both the regulation of energy and the ion homeostasis; therefore plasma cortisol was measured. Results show that during HEA, Jamm was elevated to a larger extent in fed fish and they were able to excrete much more efficiently than the starved fish. Consequently, the build-up of ammonia in plasma of HEA exposed fed fish was much slower. MO2 increased considerably in fed fish after exposure to HEA and was further intensified during exercise. During exposure to HEA, the level of cortisol in plasma augmented in both the feeding regimes, but the effect of HEA was more pronounced in starved fish. Energy stores dropped for both fed and the starved fish with the progression of the exposure period and further declined when swimming to exhaustion. Overall, fed fish were less affected by HEA than starved fish, and although exercise exacerbated the toxic effect in both feeding treatments, this was more pronounced in starved fish. This suggests that fish become more vulnerable to external ammonia during exercise, and feeding protects the fish against the adverse effects of high ammonia and exercise.
Annulate lamellae of the pancreatic exocrine cells in starved rats.	The ultrastructure of annulate lamellae in the pancreatic exocrine cells of rats starved for 3-42 days was studied. Annulate lamellae were rarely encountered in the pancreatic exocrine cells of control rats, but their incidence and size of stack was increased in those of starved rats depending on the duration of starvation, despite marked ultrastructural changes in these cells. Annulate lamellae were located in the para- or infranuclear cytoplasm of the cells and most of them were continuous with the relative normal rough endoplasmic reticulum. A close apposition in parallel was often found between the annulate lamellae and the outer nuclear envelope and occasionally pores in line with those of the nuclear membrane were observed in the lamellae of rough endoplasmic reticulum in 35- and 42-day-starved rats. An unequivocal continuity between the annulate lamellae and the nucleus and/or rough endoplasmic reticulum in pancreatic exocrine cells might be related to their origin and function.
Cardiac function during protein malnutrition and refeeding in the isolated rat heart.	In an attempt to elucidate the effect of protein restriction and subsequent refeeding on cardiac muscle function, 133 rat hearts were studied on a Langendorff perfusion apparatus: 19 normal controls, 55 rats during 6 weeks of protein restriction, and 59 rats during 6 weeks of refeeding following starvation. During starvation animals lost 14.3% of body weight and 12.8% in heart weight, both to be gained upon refeeding. Both developed force and force velocity tended to decrease in starving rats compared to control or refeeding rats. This trend was present at time 0, but more so after 60 min of perfusion. Furthermore, these differences became even more obvious and significantly different at the higher heart rates of 300 and 400 beats/min, and less so at 100 or 200 beats/min. These protein malnutrition-associated cardiac function derangements reversed almost completely to normal upon refeeding.
Intracellular regeneration of neurons in the rat lateral hypothalamic area of the brain after resumption of food intake]	Electron microscopy was used to explore changes in intracellular regeneration processes in neurons of the anterior, medial and posterior parts of the lateral hypothalamus area (LHA) of rats at various time (10, 20, 30, 50 and 70 days) after resumption of food perception. Ultrastructural changes observed during 7 days of food deprivation in intact neurons were of a reversible character. Recovery processes initially appeared and finished earlier in the neurons of medial (day 30) and anterior (day 50) parts of the LHA, in the posterior part of LHA the normalization of the neuronal structure was slower and was over only by the 70th day after the resumption of food reception. The above data are both of theoretical and practical importance, serving as a base for the study of directed treatment of diseases caused by hunger.
Changes in the dendrites of the rat lateral hypothalamic region during food deprivation]	Electron microscopy was used to explore ultrastructural changes in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) of rats 1, 3, 5 and 7 days after food deprivation. Special attention was paid to studies on changes in LHA dendrites which carry out receptive function. The dendrites were shown to be the most vulnerable and to be affected earlier than other components of neurons (somas, axons). The time course of pathomorphological changes in the dendrites, namely from initial to gross destructive ones, was specified. The characteristic changes in the dendrites included invagination into the dendritic cytoplasm of adjacent structures, mostly axons, with destructive changes in the area of invaginated parts. Invagination could be observed since the third day and was the most demonstrable on the 7th day of food deprivation. The possible mechanisms of such invaginations are discussed.
Description and basic cell kinetics of the murine pericryptal fibroblast sheath.	The size of the pericryptal fibroblast sheath (PCFS) population was determined by scoring serial sections. There are 38 and 124 PCFS cells per murine small intestinal and colonic crypt, respectively. The cells of the PCFS are slightly weighted towards the lower two-thirds of the crypt in their distribution. The ratio of epithelial cells to PCFS cells is approximately 6.5:1. The in vivo cell kinetics were analysed under control and stressed (fasted-refed) conditions. The control labelling index increases from 8.9% in the small intestine and 7.0% in the colon to peaks 49% and 113% respectively above these values 24 hours after 3HTdR administration. Labelling is observed at all crypt levels equally, and no evidence of vertical migration of labelled PCFS cells was found. Colonic epithelial and PCFS cells show a similar pattern of response to feeding after a fast of 72 hours with respect to time, but a different distribution of response in terms of crypt position.
Assessment of emaciation in relation to threat to life in anorexia nervosa.	Twenty patients with anorexia nervosa and a body weight below 60% of the standard weight were studied. One died of starvation; the others survived. Four patients, including the deceased, had such severe weakness that they could not sit up without support, and another five could sit up only from a lateral position. Serum albumin or hemoglobin levels at the beginning of therapy could not be used for nutritional assessment because of dehydration, while increased blood urea nitrogen was associated with acute illness. The present results together with data from previous studies of fatal anorexia indicate that the risk of mortality may be quite low when body weight is above 60% of the standard. We suggest that gross muscle weakness in addition to body weight for height can be a valuable indicator to assess the criticalness in anorexia nervosa.
Electron microscopy of pterygopalatine ganglion in starved rats.	The ultrastructure of rat's pterygopalatine ganglionic neurocytes after starvation was investigated. The following changes of cell organelles were observed. The mitochondria display altered internal structures--lack of matrix, swellings, and myelin structures. Rough endoplasmic reticulum and free ribosomes were reduced. Strong plication of nuclear membrane, diminution of nucleoli, increased number of lysosomes and lipofuscin granules were also noticed. The extent of these changes is variable and depends on the time period of starvation. The smallest changes were observed in the groups starved for 24-48 hrs, the largest--in the groups starved 120-144 hrs.
Beta-cell mass and proliferation following late fetal and early postnatal malnutrition in the rat.	We have recently shown that maternal food restriction during late pregnancy in rats decreased beta-cell mass in the offspring at birth, without altering beta-cell proliferation. The aim of the present work was to determine: 1) whether sustained maternal undernutrition until weaning (R group) more dramatically alters beta-cell mass in the offspring and if normal food supply from weaning until adulthood could reverse the deleterious effects and; 2) if altered beta-cell proliferation was responsible for the decreased beta-cell mass. Beta-cell fraction and proliferative capacity were determined during the suckling period and at adult age after ad libitum feeding from weaning in the R animals and in age-matched controls (C group). At day 21, the offspring born and nursed by food-restricted mothers (R animals) showed a 66% reduction in beta-cell mass and number, which did not increase from birth to weaning, although beta-cell proliferation remained normal. At 3 months of age, R animals had 35% decreased beta-cell fraction, with a 50% decrease in the head of the pancreas. In that area, beta-cell proliferation was similar to that of the controls. In the tail of the pancreas, beta-cell fraction was only slightly impaired but beta-cell proliferation was increased by 37%, as compared with the controls. This increase was associated with a shift in islet size distribution towards medium and large islets compared with the head of pancreas from these R animals. No regional variations of beta-cell fraction, proliferation or islet size distribution were observed in adult control animals. In conclusion, prolonged malnutrition until weaning impairs beta-cell development but not beta-cell proliferation. Subsequent re-nutrition is followed by increased beta-cell proliferation but this is insufficient to fully restore beta-cell mass.
