Complete mitochondrial genome sequences for Crown-of-thorns starfish Acanthaster planci and Acanthaster brevispinus.	The crown-of-thorns starfish, Acanthaster planci (L.), has been blamed for coral mortality in a large number of coral reef systems situated in the Indo-Pacific region. Because of its high fecundity and the long duration of the pelagic larval stage, the mechanism of outbreaks may be related to its meta-population dynamics, which should be examined by larval sampling and population genetic analysis. However, A. planci larvae have undistinguished morphological features compared with other asteroid larvae, hence it has been difficult to discriminate A. planci larvae in plankton samples without species-specific markers. Also, no tools are available to reveal the dispersal pathway of A. planci larvae. Therefore the development of highly polymorphic genetic markers has the potential to overcome these difficulties. To obtain genomic information for these purposes, the complete nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial genome of A. planci and its putative sibling species, A. brevispinus were determined and their characteristics discussed.
Combined mitochondrial and nuclear sequences support the monophyly of forcipulatacean sea stars.	Previous molecular phylogenetic analyses of forcipulatacean sea stars (Echinodermata: Asteroidea) have reconstructed a non-monophyletic order Forcipulatida, provided that two or more forcipulate families are included. This result could mean that one or more assumptions of the reconstruction method was violated, or else the traditional classification could be erroneous. The present molecular phylogenetic analysis included 12 non-forcipulatacean and 39 forcipulatacean sea stars, with multiple representatives of all but one of the forcipulate families and/or subfamilies. Bayesian analysis of approximately 4.2kb of sequence data representing seven partitions (nuclear 18S rRNA and 28S rRNA, mitochondrial 12S rRNA, 16S rRNA, 5 tRNAs and cytochrome oxidase I with first and second codon positions analyzed separately from third codon positions) recovered a consensus tree with three well-supported clades (78%-100% bootstrap support) that corresponded at least approximately to traditional taxonomic ranks: the superorder Forcipulatacea (Forcipulatida + Brisingida) + Pteraster, the Brisingida/Brisingidae and Asteriidae + Rathbunaster + Pycnopodia. When a molecular clock was enforced, the partitioned Bayesian analysis recovered the traditional Forcipulatacea. Five of six genera represented by two or more species were monophyletic with 100% bootstrap support. Most of the traditional subfamilial and familial groupings within the Forcipulatida were either unresolved or non-monophyletic. The separate partitions differed considerably in estimates of model parameters, mainly between nuclear sequences (with high GC content, low rates of sequence substitution and high transition/transversion rate ratios) and mitochondrial sequences.
Distribution, population parameters, and diet of Astropecten marginatus (Asteroidea: Astropectinidae) in the Venezuelan Atlantic coast]	Astropecten marginatus is a sea star widely distributed in Northern and Eastern South America, found on sandy and muddy bottoms, in shallow and deep waters. To describe some of its ecological characteristics, we calculated it spatial-temporal distribution, population parameters (based on size and weight) and diet in the Orinoco Delta ecoregion (Venezuela). The ecoregion was divided in three sections: Golfo de Paria, Boca de Serpiente and Plataforma Deltana. Samples for the rainy and dry seasons came from megabenthos surveys of the "Línea Base Ambiental Plataforma Deltana (LBAPD)" and "Corocoro Fase I (CFI)" projects. The collected sea stars were measured, weighted and dissected by the oral side to extract their stomach and identify the preys consumed. A total of 570 sea stars were collected in LBAPD project and 306 in CFI one. The highest densities were found during the dry season in almost all sections. In LBAPD project the highest density was in "Plataforma Deltana" section (0.007 +/- 0.022 ind/m2 in dry season and 0.014 +/- 0.06 ind/m2 in rainy season) and in the CFI project the densities in "Golfo de Paria" section were 0.705 +/- 0.829 ind/m2 in rainy season and 1.027 +/- 1.107 ind/m2 in dry season. The most frequent size range was 3.1-4.6cm. The highest biomass was found in "Golfo de Paria" section (7.581 +/- 0.018 mg/m2 in dry season and 0.005 +/- 6.542 x 10(-06) mg/m2 in rainy season for 2004-2005 and 3.979 +/- 4.024 mg/m2 in dry season; and 3.117 +/- 3.137 mg/m2 in rainy season for 2006). A linear relationship was found between the sea star size and its weight but no relationship was observed between its size and the depth where it was collected. Mollusks are dominant in the sea star diet (47.4% in abundance). The diet in any of the sections, seasons or between projects or size class was heterogeneous, using multivariate ordinations (MDS) and SIMPER analysis and there was no difference in the prey number or food elements that a sea star can eat. Although A. marginatus has been described as a predator, in this study were also inferred scavenger and detritivorous habits.
Contrasting effects of fatty acids on oocyte maturation in several starfish species.	Oocyte maturation (meiosis reinitiation) in starfish is induced by the natural hormone 1-methyladenine. In some species (group 2) oocyte maturation can be induced by micromolar concentrations of a few fatty acids such as arachidonic and eicosapentaenoic acids or by nanomolar concentrations of hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid. Complete maturation is triggered: increased protein phosphorylation, appearance of the cytoplasmic "maturation-promoting factor", germinal vesicle breakdown, emission of the two polar bodies and formation of the female pronucleus. In other species (group 1), however, no maturation can be induced by the fatty acids active in the species of group 2, despite a large variety of experimental conditions.
