Regioselective functionalization of starch: synthesis and 1H NMR characterization of 6-O-silyl ethers.	A high regioselective 6-O silylation of starch by using thexyldimethylchlorosilane (TDSCl, chlorodimethyl-(2,3-dimethylbut-2-yl)silane) as bulky silylating agent in the reaction system N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP)/ammonia was carried out and investigated. The control of the degree of substitution (DSSi), the control of the regioselectivity, and the control of the reaction pathway are described in detail. After peracetylation of the silyl ethers of starch, the distribution of the silyl and acetyl substituents was characterized not only in the anhydroglucose repeating units (AGU) but also in the nonreducing end groups (NEG) by means of multidimensional 1H NMR techniques. In both cases, the silyl substituents were detected exclusively in the 6-O position, and the acetyl groups in the 2-O and 3-O positions of the AGU and in the 2-O, 3-O, and 4-O positions of the NEG, respectively. The described 6-O-thexyldimethylsilyl (TDS) units are potentially protecting groups of the primary OH position of starches.
Mechanical properties of poly(lactic acid)/starch composites compatibilized by maleic anhydride.	Blending poly(lactic acid) (PLA) with wheat starch compatibized by maleic anhydride (MA) was performed with a lab-scale co-extruder. An initiator, 2,5-bis(tert-butylperoxy)-2,5 dimethylhexane (L101), was used to improve compatability among PLA, starch and MA. Interfacial adhesion between PLA and starch was significantly improved. Mechanical properties increased markedly compared to the virgin composites of PLA/starch. The PLA/starch composites at a constant ratio of 55/45 compatibilized by 1% MA and initiated by 10% L101 (MA basis) resulted in the highest tensile strength and elongation.
Biological response to pre-mineralized starch based scaffolds for bone tissue engineering.	It is known that calcium-phosphate (Ca-P) coatings are able not only to improve the bone bonding behaviour of polymeric materials, but at the same time play a positive role on enhancing cell adhesion and inducing the differentiation of osteoprogenitor cells. Recently an innovative biomimetic methodology, in which a sodium silicate gel was used as a nucleative agent, was proposed as an alternative to the currently available biomimetic coating methodologies. This methodology is especially adequate for coating biodegradable porous scaffolds. In the present work we evaluated the influence of the referred to treatment on the mechanical properties of 50/50 (wt%) blend of corn starch/ethylene-vinyl alcohol (SEVA-C) based scaffolds. These Ca-P coated scaffolds presented a compressive modulus of 224.6 +/- 20.6 and a compressive strength of 24.2 +/- 2.20. Cytotoxicity evaluation was performed according ISO/EN 10993 part 5 guidelines and showed that the biomimetic treatment did not have any deleterious effect on L929 cells and did not inhibit cell growth. Direct contact assays were done by using a cell line of human osteoblast like cells (SaOS-2). 3 x 10(5) cells were seeded per scaffold and allowed to grow for two weeks at 37( composite function)C in a humidified atmosphere containing 5% CO(2). Total protein quantification and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation showed that cells were able to grow in the pre-mineralized scaffolds. Furthermore cell viability assays (MTS test) also show that cells remain viable after two weeks in culture. Finally, protein expression studies showed that after two weeks osteopontin and collagen type I were being expressed by SaOS-2 cells seeded on the pre-mineralized scaffolds. Moreover, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was higher in the supernatants collected from the pre-mineralized samples, when compared to the control samples (non Ca-P coated). This may indicate that a faster mineralization of the ECM produced on the pre-mineralized samples was occurring. Consequently, biomimetic pre-mineralization of starch based scaffolds can be a useful route for applying these materials on bone tissue engineering.
The effect of starch and starch-bioactive glass composite microparticles on the adhesion and expression of the osteoblastic phenotype of a bone cell line.	There is a clear need for the development of microparticles that can be used simultaneously as carriers of stem/progenitor cells and as release systems for bioactive agents, such as growth factors or differentiation agents. In addition, when thinking on bone-tissue-engineering applications, it would be very useful if these microparticles are biodegradable and could be made to be bioactive. Microparticles with all those characteristics could be cultured together with adherent cells in appropriate bioreactors to form in vitro constructs that can then be used in tissue-engineering therapies. In this work, we have characterized the response of MC3T3-E1 pre-osteoblast cells to starch-based microparticles. We evaluated the adhesion, proliferation, expression of osteoblastic markers and mineralization of cells cultured at their surface. The results clearly show that MC3T3-E1 pre-osteoblast cells adhere to the surface of both polymeric and composite starch-based microparticles and express the typical osteoblastic marker genes. Furthermore, the cells were found to mineralize the extracellular matrix (ECM) during the culture period. The obtained results indicate that starch-based microparticles, known already to be biodegradable, bioactive and able to be used as carriers for controlled release applications, can simultaneously be used as carriers for cells. Consequently, they can be used as templates for forming hybrid constructs aiming to be applied in bone-tissue-engineering applications.
Starch-quercetin conjugate by radical grafting: synthesis and biological characterization.	A novel flavonoid-polysaccharide conjugate was synthesized by free radical grafting of quercetin on starch. The covalent insertion of quercetin in the polymeric chain was confirmed by FT-IR, DSC and fluorescence analyses, while an estimation of the amount of quercetin bound per g of polymer was obtained by the Folin-Ciocalteu assay. The conjugate shows improved UV stability and retains the antioxidant properties of free quercetin, such as scavenging activity towards free radicals (DPPH and peroxynitrite); inhibition of the free radical formation (peroxidation of linoleic acid) and total antioxidant activity. The conjugate also prevented drug degradation and shows potential health functionality in the treatment of Alzheimer disease, diabetes and as skin-whitening agent.
Formation of resistant corn starches induced by gamma-irradiation.	The effect of gamma-irradiation on formation of resistant starch (RS) in corn starch with different amylose content was examined. Normal corn starch, waxy corn starch, and high amylose corn starch (Hylon V and Hylon VII) were irradiated at 5, 10, 25 and 50 kGy. Gamma-irradiation at 5 kGy increased the amylose-like molecules in starches and thus significantly enhanced the RS content (p<0.05). Highest RS content was produced by 50 kGy irradiated in all the starch samples (p<0.05). The irradiation-induced RS was more evident in waxy corn starch, followed by high amylose corn starch and normal corn starch.
Synthesis of thermal and chemical resistant oxygen barrier starch with reinforcement of nano silicon carbide.	Starch/silicon carbide (starch/SiC) bionanocomposites were synthesized by solution method using different wt% of silicon carbide with starch matrix. The interaction between starch and silicon carbide was studied by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The structure of the bionanocomposites was investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM). Thermal property of starch/SiC bionanocomposites was measured and a significant enhancement of thermal resistance was noticed. The oxygen barrier property of the composites was studied and a substantial reduction in permeability was observed as compared to the virgin starch. The reduction of oxygen permeability with enhancement of thermal stability of prepared bionanocomposites may enable the materials suitable for thermal resistant packaging and adhesive applications. 
