Protein from pea mutants as a co-product in starch separation--isolates from wet and dry separation: yield, composition and solubility.	The dry separation behaviour of cotyledon material of certain pea genotypes (wild type and 5 r mutants) with different metabolic background in starch biosynthesis allowed satisfying protein recovery only with smooth seeded genotypes. Structural effects and protein distribution (starch granule size distribution, protein in non-starch part) play an important role. According to expectations protein composition remained unaltered during dry separation procedures. Independent of genotypes used the applied conditions in wet separation allowed to recover just 50% of seed proteins while approximately 10% got lost with fibres and 40% with unspecified process water streams. Globular vicilins remained dissolved during iso-electric precipitation and were discarded with waste water streams. The solubility of isolates was rather low under alkaline conditions, even for the round seeded cv. Odalett (0.4 to 0.7% dry substance).
Effect of bioaccumulation of cadmium on biomass productivity, essential trace elements, chlorophyll biosynthesis, and macromolecules of wheat seedlings.	Soil contamination with heavy metals has become a worldwide problem, leading to losses in agricultural yield and hazardous human health effects as they enter the food chain. The present investigation was undertaken to examine the influence of cadmium (Cd2+) on the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) plant. Cd2+ accumulation and distribution in 3-wk-old seedlings grown in nutrient medium containing varying concentrations of Cd2+ (control, 0.25, 0.50, 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/L) was monitored. The effect of varying Cd2+ concentrations up to 21 d on biomass productivity, plant growth, photosynthetic pigments, protein, amino acids, starch, soluble sugars, and essential nutrients uptake was studied in detail to explore the level up to which the plant can withstand the stress of heavy metal. Plants treated with 0.5, 1.0, 2.5, and 5.0 mg/L Cd2+ showed symptoms of heavy-metal toxicity as observed by various morphological parameters which were recorded with the growth of plants. The root, shoot-leaf length and the root, shoot-leaf biomass progressively decreased with increasing Cd2+ concentration in the nutrient medium. Cd2+ uptake and accumulation was found to be maximum during the initial growth period. Cd2+ also interfered with the nutrients uptake, especially calcium (Ca2+), magnesium (Mg2+), potassium (K+), iron (Fe2+), zinc (Zn2+), and manganese (Mn2+) from the growth medium. Growth reduction and altered levels of major biochemical constituents such as chlorophyll, protein, free amino acids, starch, and soluble sugars that play a major role in plant metabolism were observed in response to varying concentrations of Cd2+ in the nutrient medium. In the present study, the effects of Cd2+ on growth, biomass productivity, mineral nutrients, chlorophyll biosynthesis, protein, free amino acid, starch, and soluble sugars in wheat plants was estimated to establish an overall picture of the Cd2+ toxicity at structural and functional levels.
Combined biologic (anaerobic-aerobic) and chemical treatment of starch industry wastewater.	A combined biologic and chemical treatment of high-strength (total chemical oxygen demand [CODtot] up to 20 g/L), strong nitrogenous (total N up to 1 g/L), and phosphoric (total P up to 0.4 g/L) starch industry wastewater was investigated at laboratory-scale level. As a principal step for COD elimination, upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactor performance was investigated at 30 degrees C. Under hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of about 1 d, when the organic loading rates were higher than 15 g of COD/(L.d), the CODtot removal varied between 77 and 93%, giving effluents with a COD/N ratio of 4-5:1, approaching the requirements of subsequent denitrification. The activated sludge reactor operating in aerobic-anoxic regime (HRT of about 4 d, duration of aerobic and anoxic phases of 30 min each) was able to remove up to 90% of total nitrogen and up to 64% of COD tot from the anaerobic effluents under 17-20 degrees C. The coagulation experiments with Fe(III) showed that 1.4 mg of resting hardly biodegradable COD and 0.5 mg of phosphate (as P) could be removed from the aerobic effluents by each milligram of iron added.
Gene expression activity and pathway selection for sucrose metabolism in developing storage root of sweet potato.	Development of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) storage root coincides with starch accumulation made using cleaved products of imported photoassimilate sucrose. The genes and pathways are predominantly active for sucrose metabolism in developing storage root were unknown. In this study, we used both an expressed sequence tag (EST) approach and a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) approach to answer this question. Sucrose synthase (SuSy) was found to be significantly more frequent in storage root ESTs than in fibrous root ESTs. SuSy was the most abundant carbohydrate-metabolism gene in the storage-root ESTs. RT-PCR results confirmed this by showing that invertase was active in fibrous roots but rapidly decreased to an undetectable level during storage root development while SuSy became predominant. Invertase expression was also detectable in young immature storage root and shoot tips, suggesting an involvement in cell formation. SuSy expression pattern showed considerable similarity to that of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, an essential enzyme for starch synthesis. The results indicated that (i). SuSy was the most actively expressed enzyme in sucrose metabolism in developing storage root and was correlated with sink strength, and (ii). whereas invertase was active at cell formation stages, SuSy pathway was predominant for sucrose cleavage related to starch-accumulation.
Current models for starch synthesis and the sugary enhancer1 (se1) mutation in Zea mays.	Among the desirable quality traits essential for commercial production of fresh or processed sweet corn, kernel sugar content is universally important. In sweet corn genotypes the primary kernel sugar is sucrose, which is elevated at the expense of starch, particularly amylopectin. Sweet corn mutations have been traditionally divided into two classes. Generally speaking, class one mutations affect cytosolic reactions early in the process of starch synthesis, before starch is synthesized, and class two mutations affect reactions within the amyloplast directly involving starch granule assembly. Two widely used but previously unclassified mutations are sugary1 (su1) and sugary enhancer1 (se1). The se1 gene is a recessive modifier of su1; therefore, both genes require mutual discussion. This review provides current information about the su1 and se1 maize endosperm mutations and describes evidence further supporting previous suggestions that they fit criteria for categorization as class two mutants [Science 151 (1966) 341]. Information on the genetics and phenotype of se1 will be summarized and the hypothesized role of the se1 gene product discussed within the context of current models for starch synthesis in Zea mays L.
Genome-specific primer sets for starch biosynthesis genes in wheat.	Common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.,2n=6x=42) is an allohexaploid composed of three closely related genomes, designated A, B, and D. Genetic analysis in wheat is complicated, as most genes are present in triplicated sets located in the same chromosomal regions of homoeologous chromosomes. The goal of this report was to use genomic information gathered from wheat-rice sequence comparison to develop genome-specific primer sets for five genes involved in starch biosynthesis. Intron locations in wheat were inferred through the alignment of wheat cDNA sequences with rice genomic sequence.Exon-anchored primers, which amplify across introns,allowed the sequencing of introns from the three genomes for each gene. Sequence variation within introns among the three wheat genomes provided the basis for genome-specific primer design. For three genes, ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (Agp-L), sucrose transporter (SUT),and waxy (Wx), genome-specific primer sets were developed for all three genomes. Genome-specific primers were developed for two of the three genomes for Agp-S and starch synthase I (Ssl). Thus, 13 of 15 possible genome-specific primer sets were developed using this strategy. Seven genome-specific primer combinations were used to amplify alleles in hexaploid wheat lines for sequence comparison. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms(SNPs) were identified in a comparison of 5,093 bp among a minimum of ten wheat accessions. Two of theseSNPs could be converted into cleaved amplified polymorphism sequence (CAPS) markers. Our results indicated that the design of genome-specific primer sets using intron-based sequence differences has a high probability of success, while the identification of polymorphism among alleles within a genome may be a challenge.
Antisense inhibition of sorbitol synthesis leads to up-regulation of starch synthesis without altering CO2 assimilation in apple leaves.	Sorbitol is a primary end-product of photosynthesis in apple (Malus domestica Borkh.) and many other tree fruit species of the Rosaceae family. Sorbitol synthesis shares a common hexose phosphate pool with sucrose synthesis in the cytosol. In this study, 'Greensleeves' apple was transformed with a cDNA encoding aldose 6-phosphate reductase (A6PR, EC 1.1.1.200) in the antisense orientation. Antisense expression of A6PR decreased A6PR activity in mature leaves to approximately 15-30% of the untransformed control. The antisense plants had lower concentrations of sorbitol but higher concentrations of sucrose and starch in mature leaves at both dusk and predawn. (14)CO(2) pulse-chase labeling at ambient CO(2) demonstrated that partitioning of the newly fixed carbon to starch was significantly increased, whereas that to sucrose remained unchanged in the antisense lines with decreased sorbitol synthesis. Total activities of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (EC 4.1.1.39), sucrose-phosphate synthase (EC 2.4.1.14), and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (EC 2.7.7.27) were not significantly altered in the antisense lines, whereas both stromal and cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (EC 3.1.3.11) activities were higher in the antisense lines with 15% of the control A6PR activity. Concentrations of glucose 6-phosphate and fructose 6-phosphate (F6P) were higher in the antisense plants than in the control, but the 3-phosphoglycerate concentration was lower in the antisense plants with 15% of the control A6PR activity. Fructose 2, 6-bisphosphate concentration increased in the antisense plants, but not to the extent expected from the increase in F6P, comparing sucrose-synthesizing species. There was no significant difference in CO(2) assimilation in response to photon flux density or intercellular CO(2) concentration. We concluded that cytosolic FBPase activity in vivo was down-regulated and starch synthesis was up-regulated in response to decreased sorbitol synthesis. As a result, CO(2) assimilation in source leaves was sustained at both ambient CO(2) and saturating CO(2).
Reverse genetic characterization of cytosolic acetyl-CoA generation by ATP-citrate lyase in Arabidopsis.	Acetyl-CoA provides organisms with the chemical flexibility to biosynthesize a plethora of natural products that constitute much of the structural and functional diversity in nature. Recent studies have characterized a novel ATP-citrate lyase (ACL) in the cytosol of Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we report the use of antisense RNA technology to generate a series of Arabidopsis lines with a range of ACL activity. Plants with even moderately reduced ACL activity have a complex, bonsai phenotype, with miniaturized organs, smaller cells, aberrant plastid morphology, reduced cuticular wax deposition, and hyperaccumulation of starch, anthocyanin, and stress-related mRNAs in vegetative tissue. The degree of this phenotype correlates with the level of reduction in ACL activity. These data indicate that ACL is required for normal growth and development and that no other source of acetyl-CoA can compensate for ACL-derived acetyl-CoA. Exogenous malonate, which feeds into the carboxylation pathway of acetyl-CoA metabolism, chemically complements the morphological and chemical alterations associated with reduced ACL expression, indicating that the observed metabolic alterations are related to the carboxylation pathway of cytosolic acetyl-CoA metabolism. The observations that limiting the expression of the cytosolic enzyme ACL reduces the accumulation of cytosolic acetyl-CoA-derived metabolites and that these deficiencies can be alleviated by exogenous malonate indicate that ACL is a nonredundant source of cytosolic acetyl-CoA.
Starch biosynthesis: the primer nonreducing-end mechanism versus the nonprimer reducing-end two-site insertion mechanism.	Two mechanisms are recognized for polysaccharide chain elongation: (a) the nonreducing-end, primer-dependent mechanism and (b) the reducing-end, two-site insertion mechanism. We recently demonstrated the latter mechanism for starch biosynthesis by pulsing starch granules with ADP-[14C]Glc and chasing with ADPGlc for eight varieties of starch granules. Others have reported the addition of glucose from ADPGlc to the nonreducing ends of maltose, maltotriose, and maltopentaose and a branched maltopentasaccharide. It was concluded that starch chains are biosynthesized by the addition of glucose to the nonreducing ends of maltodextrin primers. In this study, we reinvestigated the maltodextrin reactions by reacting three kinds of starch granules from maize, wheat, and rice with ADP-[14C]Glc in the absence and presence of maltose (G2), maltotriose (G3), and maltodextrin (d.p.12) and found that they inhibited starch biosynthesis rather than stimulating it, as would be expected for primers. The major product in the presence of G2 was G3 with decreasing amounts of G4-G9 and the major products in the presence of G3 was G4 and G5, with decreasing amounts of G6-G9. It was concluded that maltodextrins are acceptors rather than primers. This was confirmed by pulsing the starch granules with ADP-[14C]Glc and chasing with G2, G3, and G6, which gave release of 14C-label from the pulsed granules in the absence of ADPGlc, further demonstrating that maltodextrins are acceptors that inhibit starch biosynthesis by releasing glucose from starch synthase, rather than acting as primers and stimulating biosynthesis.
Arabidopsis mutants Atisa1 and Atisa2 have identical phenotypes and lack the same multimeric isoamylase, which influences the branch point distribution of amylopectin during starch synthesis.	The aim of this work was to evaluate the function of isoamylase in starch granule biosynthesis in Arabidopsis leaves. A reverse-genetic approach was used to knockout AtISA1, one of three genes in Arabidopsis encoding isoamylase-type debranching enzymes. The mutant (Atisa1-1) lacks functional AtISA1 transcript and the major isoamylase activity (detected by native gels) in crude extracts of leaves. The same activity is abolished by mutation at the DBE1 locus, which encodes a second isoamylase-type protein, AtISA2. This is consistent with the idea that ISA1 and ISA2 proteins are subunits of the same enzyme in vivo. Atisa1-1, Atisa2-1 (dbe1), and the Atisa1-1/Atisa2-1 double mutant all have identical phenotypes. Starch content is reduced compared with the wild type but substantial quantities of the soluble glucan phytoglycogen are produced. The amylopectin of the remaining starch and the phytoglycogen in the mutants are structurally related to each other and differ from wild-type amylopectin. Electron micrographs reveal that the phytoglycogen-accumulating phenotype is highly tissue-specific. Phytoglycogen accumulates primarily in the plastids of the palisade and spongy mesophyll cells. Remarkably, other cell types appear to accumulate only starch, which is normal in appearance but is altered in structure. As phytoglycogen accumulates during the day, its rate of accumulation decreases, its structure changes and intermediates of glucan breakdown accumulate, suggesting that degradation occurs simultaneously with synthesis. We conclude that the AtISA1/AtISA2 isoamylase influences glucan branching pattern, but that this may not be the primary determinant of partitioning between crystalline starch and soluble phytoglycogen.
Towards the rational design of cereal starches.	A major challenge in cereal biotechnology is to achieve the rational design of renewable polymers to meet specific requirements for improving human health, nutrition, and food quality, to increase the energy supply, and to provide safer and more profitable industrial inputs. The field of starch synthesis research has advanced at a rapid pace over the past decade, and many core observations about the pathway are well established over a range of species. Owing to the complexity of the starch-synthesis process, in which suites of enzymes act at the interface between soluble and insoluble phases, the rational design of starch granules with specific functionality is still in its infancy. Our fundamental biochemical knowledge of starch biosynthesis has recently advanced, and this new information could be exploited to create novel variability in carbohydrate polymers in cereal grains. We propose two strategies for moving more rapidly towards truly rational design of starch. First, the focusing of fundamental research on processes that are involved in the regulation of starch synthesis and granule assembly. Second, the development of iterative strategies, exploiting new molecular genetics tools, to screen for desired properties in high-throughput systems.
The diurnal metabolism of leaf starch.	Starch is a primary product of photosynthesis in leaves. In most plants, a large fraction of the carbon assimilated during the day is stored transiently in the chloroplast as starch for use during the subsequent night. Photosynthetic partitioning into starch is finely regulated, and the amount of carbohydrate stored is dependent on the environmental conditions, particularly day length. This regulation is applied at several levels to control the flux of carbon from the Calvin cycle into starch biosynthesis. Starch is composed primarily of branched glucans with an architecture that allows the formation of a semi-crystalline insoluble granule. Biosynthesis has been most intensively studied in non-photosynthetic starch-storing organs, such as developing seeds and tubers. Biosynthesis in leaves has received less attention, but recent reverse-genetic studies of Arabidopsis (thale cress) have produced data generally consistent with what is known for storage tissues. The pathway involves starch synthases, which elongate the glucan chains, and branching enzymes. Remarkably, enzymes that partially debranch glucans are also required for normal amylopectin synthesis. In the last decade, our understanding of starch breakdown in leaves has advanced considerably. Starch is hydrolysed to maltose and glucose at night via a pathway that requires recently discovered proteins in addition to well-known enzymes. These sugars are exported from the plastid to support sucrose synthesis, respiration and growth. In the present review we provide an overview of starch biosynthesis, starch structure and starch degradation in the leaves of plants. We focus on recent advances in each area and highlight outstanding questions.
Expression of an engineered granule-bound Escherichia coli maltose acetyltransferase in wild-type and amf potato plants.	Starch is used in many industrial applications, but often requires chemical derivatization to enhance its properties before use. In particular, the stability of starch polymers in solution is improved by acetylation. A drawback of this treatment is the use of pollutant chemicals. A biological alternative to chemical derivatization was investigated by the expression of an amyloplast-targeted Escherichia coli maltose acetyltransferase (MAT) gene in tubers of wild-type (Kardal) and mutant amylose-free (amf) potato plants. MAT was expressed as such, or fused to the N- or C-terminus of a non-catalytic starch-binding domain (SBD) to target the starch granule. Starch granules derived from transgenic plants were found to contain acetyl groups, although their content was low, opening up an avenue to move away from the post-harvest chemical derivatization of starch. MAT inside starch granules was found to be active post-harvest when supplied with acetyl-coenzyme A and glucose or maltose, but it did not acetylate starch polymers in vitro. Starch granules from transformants in which MAT alone was expressed also showed MAT activity, indicating that MAT is accumulated in starch granules, and has affinity for starch by itself. Furthermore, starch granule morphology was altered, and fusion proteins containing MAT and SBD seemed to have a higher affinity for starch granules than two appended SBDs. These results are discussed against the background of the quaternary structure of MAT.
Cloning and expression analysis of a potato cDNA that encodes branching enzyme: evidence for co-expression of starch biosynthetic genes.	One of the key enzymes involved in the formation of amylopectin, which is the major component of starch, is branching enzyme. A cDNA for potato branching enzyme was cloned by screening a tuber-specific cDNA expression library using an antiserum directed against a denatured preparation of the protein. Complementation of an Escherichia coli strain deficient in branching enzyme was achieved using a construct derived from this clone. Analysis of the expression of the gene in potato revealed a close association with conditions favouring starch biosynthesis. The expression pattern of the gene coding for potato branching enzyme, as analyzed at the mRNA level, closely resembles that of AGPase S, a gene coding for one of the subunits of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, which is the key regulatory enzyme in the starch biosynthetic pathway. This raises the possibility that enzymes involved in the pathway are coordinately regulated at the transcriptional level.
Physiological function of the qPGWC-9 related to high percentage of rice grains with Chalkiness]	Percentage of grains with chalkiness (PGWC), one of the important traits assessing rice grain appearance quality, belonged to qualitative trait controlled by many genes. Our previous study identified a novel quantitative trait locus (QTL), namely qPGWC-9, related to high PGWC using chromosomal segment substitution line (CSSL) population. qPGWC-9 was shown to be expressed stably in eight environments. AIS82 which carried a IR24 chromosomal segment corresponding to qPGWC-9 in the Asominori genetic background was selected and analyzed to clarify the physiological function of qPGWC-9 from the relationship of source and sink of carbohydrates. It showed that AIS82 had higher PGWC than Asominori (control variety with low PGWC). The net photosynthetic rate of flag leaf of AIS82 showed no significant difference from that of Asominori, so photosynthetic ability in flag leaf was not directly related with high PGWC in AIS82. But, the changes in pattern of activity of the key enzymes associated with starch synthesis were different in these plants. Activities of some key enzymes in starch synthesis in AIS82 changed more radically than those in Asominori. These results suggest that qPGWC-9 might determine the activities of some enzymes associated with starch synthesis and therefore affect the degree of grain chalkiness.
Cloning and expression analyses of sucrose non-fermenting-1-related kinase 1 (SnRK1b) gene during development of sorghum and maize endosperm and its implicated role in sugar-to-starch metabolic transition.	A full-length cDNA clone, SbSnRK1b (1530 bp, GenBank accession no. EF544393), encoding a putative serine/threonine protein kinase homologue of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) SNF1, was isolated from developing endosperm of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. Multiple sequence alignment data showed a phylogenetic affiliation of the sorghum clone with the SnRK1b group of protein kinases that are highly expressed in cereal seed endosperm. The DNA gel blot analyses indicated that SbSnRK1b gene is present as a single- or low copy number gene in sorghum. The RNA and protein gel blot analyses confirmed the expression of SbSnRK1b in developing sorghum caryopses, overlapping with the starch biosynthesis phase, 12-24 days after fertilization. In situ hybridization and immunolocalization data resolved the spatial specificity of SbSnRK1b expression in the basal endosperm transfer cell layer, the unique port of assimilate unloading in the growing sorghum seed. Expression of SbSnRK1b was also evident in the developing sorghum microspores, coincident with the onset of starch deposition phase. As in sorghum, similar spatiotemporal specificity of SnRK1b expression was observed during maize (Zea mays L.) seed development. However, discordant in situ hybridization and immunolocalization data indicated that the expression of SbSnRK1b homologue in maize is under posttranscriptional control during endosperm development.
Dynamic proteomic analysis reveals a switch between central carbon metabolism and alcoholic fermentation in rice filling grains.	Accumulation of reserve materials in filling grains involves the coordination of different metabolic and cellular processes, and understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the interconnections remains a major challenge for proteomics. Rice (Oryza sativa) is an excellent model for studying grain filling because of its importance as a staple food and the available genome sequence database. Our observations showed that embryo differentiation and endosperm cellularization in developing rice seeds were completed approximately 6 d after flowering (DAF); thereafter, the immature seeds mainly underwent cell enlargement and reached the size of mature seeds at 12 DAF. Grain filling began at 6 DAF and lasted until 20 DAF. Dynamic proteomic analyses revealed 396 protein spots differentially expressed throughout eight sequential developmental stages from 6 to 20 DAF and determined 345 identities. These proteins were involved in different cellular and metabolic processes with a prominently functional skew toward metabolism (45%) and protein synthesis/destination (20%). Expression analyses of protein groups associated with different functional categories/subcategories showed that substantially up-regulated proteins were involved in starch synthesis and alcoholic fermentation, whereas the down-regulated proteins in the process were involved in central carbon metabolism and most of the other functional categories/subcategories such as cell growth/division, protein synthesis, proteolysis, and signal transduction. The coordinated changes were consistent with the transition from cell growth and differentiation to starch synthesis and clearly indicated that a switch from central carbon metabolism to alcoholic fermentation may be important for starch synthesis and accumulation in the developmental process.
Starch metabolism in leaves.	Starch is the most abundant storage carbohydrate produced in plants. The initiation of transitory starch synthesis and degradation in plastids depends mainly on diurnal cycle, post-translational regulation of enzyme activity and starch phosphorylation. For the proper structure of starch granule the activities of all starch synthase isoenzymes, branching enzymes and debranching enzymes are needed. The intensity of starch biosynthesis depends mainly on the activity of AGPase (adenosine 5'-diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase). The key enzymes in starch degradation are beta-amylase, isoamylase 3 and disproportionating enzyme. However, it should be underlined that there are some crucial differences in starch metabolism between heterotrophic and autotrophic tissues, e.g. is the ability to build multiprotein complexes responsible for biosynthesis and degradation of starch granules in chloroplasts. The observed huge progress in understanding of starch metabolism was possible mainly due to analyses of the complete Arabidopsis and rice genomes and of numerous mutants with altered starch metabolism in leaves. The aim of this paper is to review current knowledge on transient starch metabolism in higher plants.
Comparative transcriptome analysis coupled to X-ray CT reveals sucrose supply and growth velocity as major determinants of potato tuber starch biosynthesis.	Even though the process of potato tuber starch biosynthesis is well understood, mechanisms regulating biosynthesis are still unclear. Transcriptome analysis provides valuable information as to how genes are regulated. Therefore, this work aimed at investigating transcriptional regulation of starch biosynthetic genes in leaves and tubers of potato plants under various conditions. More specifically we looked at gene expression diurnally in leaves and tubers, during tuber induction and in tubers growing at different velocities. To determine velocity of potato tuber growth a new method based on X-ray Computed Tomography (X-ray CT) was established.
Formation of semi-compound C-type starch granule in high-amylose rice developed by antisense RNA inhibition of starch-branching enzyme.	Cereal starch granules with high-amylose and resistant starch (RS) always show irregular morphology and special crystalline structure, but their formation during grain development is not yet clear. In our previous studies, we had generated a transgenic rice line (TRS) enriched with amylose and RS, which contained semi-compound starch showing a C-type crystalline structure. In this study, the formation of semi-compound C-type starch granule during TRS endosperm development was carefully investigated with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopes and X-ray powder diffraction. The results showed that the TRS starch subgranules, each with a central hilum, were individually initiated in amyloplast and showed an A-type crystal at the early stage of starch granule development, which was similar to that in its wild type. However, with the endosperm development, the amylose content in TRS endosperm starch increased and the B-type starch crystal was deposited in the periphery of subgranules; then, the adjacent subgranules fused together and finally formed a continuous outer layer band surrounding the entire circumference of the starch granule. Accordingly, a mechanistic model for the formation of semi-compound C-type starch granules is proposed. 
Size-separation characterization of starch and glycogen for biosynthesis-structure-property relationships.	Starch and glycogen are highly branched polymers of glucose of great importance to humans in managing and mitigating nutrition-related diseases, especially diabetes and obesity, and in industrial uses, for example in food and paper-making. Size-separation characterization using multiple-detection size-exclusion chromatography (SEC, also known as gel-permeation chromatography, GPC) is able to furnish substantial amounts of information on the relationships between the biosynthesis, processing, structure, and properties of these biopolymers, and achieves superior characterization for use in industrial product and process improvements. Multi-detector SEC is able to give much more information about structure than simple averages such as total molecular weight or size; the detailed information yielded by this technique has already given new information on important biosynthesis-structure-property reactions, and has considerable potential in this field in the future. However, it must be used with care to avoid artifacts arising from incomplete dissolution of the substrate and shear scission during separation. It is also essential in interpreting data to appreciate that this size-separation technique can only ever give size distributions, never true molecular weight distributions. Other size-separation techniques, particularly field-flow fractionation, require substantial technical development to be used on undegraded native starches.
Maize opaque5 encodes monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase and specifically affects galactolipids necessary for amyloplast and chloroplast function.	The maize (Zea mays) opaque5 (o5) locus was shown to encode the monogalactosyldiacylglycerol synthase MGD1. Null and point mutations of o5 that affect the vitreous nature of mature endosperm engendered an allelic series of lines with stepwise reductions in gene function. C(18:3)/C(18:2) galactolipid abundance in seedling leaves was reduced proportionally, without significant effects on total galactolipid content. This alteration in polar lipid composition disrupted the organization of thylakoid membranes into granal stacks. Total galactolipid abundance in endosperm was strongly reduced in o5(-) mutants, causing developmental defects and changes in starch production such that the normal simple granules were replaced with compound granules separated by amyloplast membrane. Complete loss of MGD1 function in a null mutant caused kernel lethality owing to failure in both endosperm and embryo development. The data demonstrate that low-abundance galactolipids with five double bonds serve functions in plastid membranes that are not replaced by the predominant species with six double bonds. Furthermore, the data identify a function of amyloplast membranes in the development of starch granules. Finally, the specific changes in lipid composition suggest that MGD1 can distinguish the constituency of acyl groups on its diacylglycerol substrate based upon the degree of desaturation.
Biochemistry and genetics of starch synthesis.	Enormous progress has been made in understanding the genetics and biochemistry of starch synthesis in crop plants. Furthermore, starch remains at the very epicenter of the world's food and feed chains and has even now become one of the world's most important sources of biorenewable energy (biofuel). Yet, despite this remarkable progress and the obvious economic importance, very little has been achieved in terms of adding value to starch or increasing starch yield, particularly in cereal crops. Here, we review the genetics and biochemistry of starch synthesis in crop plants, particularly maize. With all this know-how in place and a chasm of opportunity ahead, the time is right to see science deliver progress into a new frontier. Thus, in our view the stage is set for a new era of changes in starch synthesis, delivering enhancements in functionality and yield.
Isolation and selection of new astaxanthin producing strains of Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous.	Astaxanthin is a xanthophyll pigment of high economic value for its use as a feeding component in aquaculture. Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous is a basidiomycetous fungi able to synthesize astaxanthin as its major carotenoid, and the only known yeast species bearing the capability to produce this type of carotenoid. Recently, the habitat and intraspecific variability of this species have been found to be wider than previously expected, encouraging the search for new wild strains with potential biotechnological applications. Here we describe effective procedures for isolation of X. dendrorhous from environmental samples, accurate identification of the strains, analysis of their astaxanthin content, and proper conservation of the isolates.
Gene expression of the key enzymes controlling starch synthesis and metabolism in rice grain endosperm under effects of high temperature after anthesis]	Taking an early-season indica cultivar 'Jiazao 935' whose grain quality was sensitive to temperature as test material, and by using artificial climatic chamber and real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (FQ-PCR), this paper studied the relative expression amount and its dynamic changes of ten isoform genes of the key enzymes controlling starch synthesis and metabolism in rice grain endosperm, including sbe1, sbe3, and sbe4 of starch branching enzyme (SBE), isal, isa2, isa3, and pul of starch debranching enzyme (DBE), and Wx, sss1, and sss2a of starch synthase (SS), at the mean daily temperature 22 and 32 degrees C after anthesis. There existed obvious differences in the expression patterns of these genes under the high temperature stress, and the expression patterns were isoform-dependent. The relative expression amount of sbe1 and sbe3 under high temperature decreased significantly, and both of the genes were the sensitive isoform genes of SBE to high temperature stress. Among the DBE genes, pul was the isoform gene with high expression level, being more sensitive to high temperature stress than isa1, isa2, and isa3. Among the SS genes, sss2a had a significantly lower relative expression amount than sss1 and Wx, but sss2a and sss1 were more sensitive to high temperature than Wx, suggesting that sss2a and sss1 could be the important genes that adjusted the starch structure in rice endosperm under high temperature stress, especially at the middle and late grain filling stages.
RETRACTED: Molecular strategies in manipulation of the starch synthesis pathway for improving storage starch content in plants (review and prospect for increasing storage starch synthesis).	Starch is the most widespread and abundant storage carbohydrate in plants. We depend upon starch for our nutrition, exploit its unique properties in industry, and use it as a feedstock for bioethanol production. In recent decades, enormous progress has been made in understanding the genetic and biochemical mechanisms of starch synthesis in plants. Yet, despite this remarkable progress and its obvious economic importance, very little has been achieved in terms of adding value to starch or increasing starch content, particularly in cereal crops. In this paper, we first review recent advances in understanding the biochemistry of starch synthesis, particularly in identifying key enzymes involved in starch assembly. We then assess the progress in molecular strategies for improving storage starch content in plants. Finally, we discuss the problems faced in our profession and present ideas to effectively increase storage starch content in the future.
OsbZIP58, a basic leucine zipper transcription factor, regulates starch biosynthesis in rice endosperm.	Starch composition and the amount in endosperm, both of which contribute dramatically to seed yield, cooking quality, and taste in cereals, are determined by a series of complex biochemical reactions. However, the mechanism regulating starch biosynthesis in cereal seeds is not well understood. This study showed that OsbZIP58, a bZIP transcription factor, is a key transcriptional regulator controlling starch synthesis in rice endosperm. OsbZIP58 was expressed mainly in endosperm during active starch synthesis. osbzip58 null mutants displayed abnormal seed morphology with altered starch accumulation in the white belly region and decreased amounts of total starch and amylose. Moreover, osbzip58 had a higher proportion of short chains and a lower proportion of intermediate chains of amylopectin. Furthermore, OsbZIP58 was shown to bind directly to the promoters of six starch-synthesizing genes, OsAGPL3, Wx, OsSSIIa, SBE1, OsBEIIb, and ISA2, and to regulate their expression. These findings indicate that OsbZIP58 functions as a key regulator of starch synthesis in rice seeds and provide new insights into seed quality control. 
The sacred lotus genome provides insights into the evolution of flowering plants.	Sacred lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) is an ornamental plant that is also used for food and medicine. This basal eudicot species is especially important from an evolutionary perspective, as it occupies a critical phylogenetic position in flowering plants. Here we report the draft genome of a wild strain of sacred lotus. The assembled genome is 792 Mb, which is approximately 85-90% of genome size estimates. We annotated 392 Mb of repeat sequences and 36,385 protein-coding genes within the genome. Using these sequence data, we constructed a phylogenetic tree and confirmed the basal location of sacred lotus within eudicots. Importantly, we found evidence for a relatively recent whole-genome duplication event; any indication of the ancient paleo-hexaploid event was, however, absent. Genomic analysis revealed evidence of positive selection within 28 embryo-defective genes and one annexin gene that may be related to the long-term viability of sacred lotus seed. We also identified a significant expansion of starch synthase genes, which probably elevated starch levels within the rhizome of sacred lotus. Sequencing this strain of sacred lotus thus provided important insights into the evolution of flowering plant and revealed genetic mechanisms that influence seed dormancy and starch synthesis.
Effect of coagulant/flocculants on bioproducts from microalgae.	The potential of microalgae as a source of sustainable energy, nutritional supplements and specialized chemicals necessitates a thorough evaluation of the methods of harvesting microalgae with regards to the bioproduct(s) desired. This research assessed the effect of coagulation, flocculation, and centrifugation on the wet lipid extraction procedure, which fractionated microalgae into hydrolyzed biomass for fermentation into acetone, butanol, and ethanol, an aqueous phase as growth media for genetically engineered Escherichia coli, and a lipid fraction for the production of biodiesel. Biomass harvested by cationic starches, alum, and centrifugation produced 30, 19, and 22.5mg/g of dry wt. algae of total combined acetone, butanol, and ethanol, respectively. Higher biodiesel production was also observed for the cationic starches (9.6 mg/g of dry wt. algae) than alum (0.6 mg/g of dry wt. algae) harvested biomass. The results suggested significant effect of the harvesting methods on the yields of bioproducts.
Anatomical and biochemical characteristics of Achnatherum splendens (Trin.) Nevski seedlings stressed on Pb2+.	Lead is a heavy metal that usually accumulates in the environment as a hazardous pollutant. Achnatherum splendens (Trin.) Nevski seedlings facilitate the purification and disposal of urban and industrial sewage; however, the detailed mechanism of this phytoremediation is still unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of lead (Pb(2+)) stress on the anatomical and biochemical characteristics in A. splendens seedlings using microscopy and proteomic analysis. Our results showed that starch grains accumulate in the cell as the concentration of Pb(2+) increases. Several organelles such as the nucleus, mitochondria, and chloroplasts were found to be damaged as a result of Pb(2+) stress. However, the cell wall and the vacuole compartmentalization could reduce the heavy metal poison. The number of total proteins decreased as Pb(2+) concentration increased. Furthermore, the low molecular weight protein played an important role in resistance to heavy metal Pb(2+) stress. Peroxidase (POD) and amylase activities were still high at concentrations of 200 and 160 mg L(-1) Pb(2+), respectively. The ATPase activity was in the top peak at a concentration of 80-160 mg L(-1) Pb(2+). Thus, these three enzymes were involved in resistance against Pb(2+) stress. The content of proline increased with the increased concentration of Pb(2+). Malondialdehyde (MDA) and soluble sugar peaked at concentrations of 160 and 80 mg L(-1) Pb(2+), respectively. Our results indicated that the last three organic compounds were involved in resistance against Pb(2+) stress.
Kinetic modelling of growth and storage molecule production in microalgae under mixotrophic and autotrophic conditions.	In order to improve algal biofuel production on a commercial-scale, an understanding of algal growth and fuel molecule accumulation is essential. A mathematical model is presented that describes biomass growth and storage molecule (TAG lipid and starch) accumulation in the freshwater microalga Chlorella vulgaris, under mixotrophic and autotrophic conditions. Biomass growth was formulated based on the Droop model, while the storage molecule production was calculated based on the carbon balance within the algal cells incorporating carbon fixation via photosynthesis, organic carbon uptake and functional biomass growth. The model was validated with experimental growth data of C. vulgaris and was found to fit the data well. Sensitivity analysis showed that the model performance was highly sensitive to variations in parameters associated with nutrient factors, photosynthesis and light intensity. The maximum productivity and biomass concentration were achieved under mixotrophic nitrogen sufficient conditions, while the maximum storage content was obtained under mixotrophic nitrogen deficient conditions. 
Replacement of the endogenous starch debranching enzymes ISA1 and ISA2 of Arabidopsis with the rice orthologs reveals a degree of functional conservation during starch synthesis.	This study tested the interchangeability of enzymes in starch metabolism between dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plant species. Amylopectin--a branched glucose polymer--is the major component of starch and is responsible for its semi-crystalline property. Plants synthesize starch with distinct amylopectin structures, varying between species and tissues. The structure determines starch properties, an important characteristic for cooking and nutrition, and for the industrial uses of starch. Amylopectin synthesis involves at least three enzyme classes: starch synthases, branching enzymes and debranching enzymes. For all three classes, several enzyme isoforms have been identified. However, it is not clear which enzyme(s) are responsible for the large diversity of amylopectin structures. Here, we tested whether the specificities of the debranching enzymes (ISA1 and ISA2) are major determinants of species-dependent differences in amylopectin structure by replacing the dicotyledonous Arabidopsis isoamylases (AtISA1 and AtISA2) with the monocotyledonous rice (Oryza sativa) isoforms. We demonstrate that the ISA1 and ISA2 are sufficiently well conserved between these species to form heteromultimeric chimeric Arabidopsis/rice isoamylase enzymes. Furthermore, we were able to reconstitute the endosperm-specific rice OsISA1 homomultimeric complex in Arabidopsis isa1isa2 mutants. This homomultimer was able to facilitate normal rates of starch synthesis. The resulting amylopectin structure had small but significant differences in comparison to wild-type Arabidopsis amylopectin. This suggests that ISA1 and ISA2 have a conserved function between plant species with a major role in facilitating the crystallization of pre-amylopectin synthesized by starch synthases and branching enzymes, but also influencing the final structure of amylopectin.
Control of starch composition and structure through substrate supply in the monocellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.	In Chlamydomonas, as in higher plants, synthesis of ADP glucose catalyzed by ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase is rate-limiting for the building of starch in the chloroplast. We have isolated disruptions of the STA1 ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase structural gene that rendered the enzyme less responsive to the allosteric activator 3-phosphoglycerate. The structure and composition of the residual starch synthesized by all mutants of the STA1 locus is dramatically altered. The residual polysaccharide is shown to be devoid of amylose despite the presence of granule-bound starch synthase, the amylose biosynthetic enzyme. In addition, the fine structure of the mutant amylopectin revealed the presence of an altered chain-length distribution. This distribution mimicks that which is observed during growth and photosynthesis and differs markedly from that observed during storage. We therefore propose that low nucleotide sugar concentrations are either directly or indirectly responsible for the major differences observed in the composition or structure of starch during storage and photosynthesis.
