NF-{kappa}B is required for STAT-4 expression during dendritic cell maturation.	The transcription factor STAT-4 plays a pivotal role in the IL-12-mediated development of naive CD4+ T cells into the Th1 phenotype. Initially thought to be restricted to the lymphoid lineage, STAT-4 was subsequently shown to be expressed in the myeloid compartment, mainly in activated monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells (DC). Here, we have studied STAT-4 in human monocyte-derived DC, and we demonstrated that its expression can be induced by multiple stimuli, such as the ligands for TLR-4, TLR-2, and TLR-3, different pathogens, CD40 ligand, and the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. It is interesting that we found that STAT-4 is tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to type I IFN but not IL-12 in human mature DC. Cloning and functional analysis of the STAT-4 promoter showed that a NF-kappaB binding site, localized at -969/-959 bp upstream of the transcriptional start site, is involved in the regulation of this gene in primary human DC. EMSAs using a probe containing this NF-kappaB binding sequence and chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated that p65/p50 and p50/p50 dimers were the main NF-kappaB/Rel proteins involved in STAT-4 gene expression in maturing DC. The mutation of this kappaB site or the overexpression of the repressor IkappaBalpha exerted an inhibitory effect on a STAT-4 promoter-driven reporter as well as on STAT-4 expression. Altogether, these results indicate that STAT-4 can be finely tuned along with DC maturation through NF-kappaB activation and that its induction may be involved in preparing the DC to be receptive to the cytokine environment present in lymphoid organs.
Pre-assembly of STAT4 with the human IFN-alpha/beta receptor-2 subunit is mediated by the STAT4 N-domain.	CD4(+) T cells regulate adaptive responses to pathogens by secreting unique subsets of cytokines that mediate inflammatory processes. The innate cytokines IL-12 and IFN-alpha/beta regulate type I responses and promote acute IFN-gamma secretion through the activation of the STAT4 transcription factor. Although IL-12-induced STAT4 activation is a conserved pathway across species, IFN-alpha/beta-dependent STAT4 phosphorylation does not occur as efficiently in mice as it does in human T cells. In order to understand this species-specific pathway for IFN-alpha/beta-dependent STAT4 activation, we have examined the molecular basis of STAT4 recruitment by the human IFNAR. In this report, we demonstrate that the N-domain of STAT4 interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of the human, but not the murine IFNAR2 subunit. This interaction mapped to a membrane-proximal segment of the hIFNAR2 spanning amino acids 299-333. Deletion of this region within the hIFNAR2 completely abolishes IFN-alpha/beta-dependent STAT4 tyrosine phosphorylation when expressed in human IFNAR2-deficient fibroblasts. Thus, the human IFNAR2 cytoplasmic domain serves to link STAT4 to the IFNAR as a pre-assembled complex that facilitates cytokine-driven STAT4 activation.
The STAT4 and STAT6 pathways in pancreatitis-associated lung injury.	The STAT pathways are integral to the inflammatory response and these proteins provide a direct link between the cytokine receptors and cytokine-induced gene transcription. We examined the roles of STAT4 and STAT6 in lung injury after caerulein-induced severe acute pancreatitis. We hypothesized that a modified organ expression of cytokines and chemokines that occurs in transgenic mice may affect the systemic response to severe acute pancreatitis.
Large-scale differential display analysis of T helper cell differentiation.	We have developed a novel large-scale multicapillary fluorescent differential display (FDD) platform amenable to further automation. The power of the method is demonstrated by the analysis of T helper cell differentiation. Eight RNA samples from wild type, Stat4 knockout and Stat6 knockout mice were analyzed with 16 anchoring primers and 24 arbitrary primers, resulting in 285 294 sample peaks. Visually selected patterns of differential expression suggest two major regulatory mechanisms: activation and Stat4 genotype. A subset of the findings is reproduced in the confirmatory differential display (DD) that included technical and biological replicates. In a small fragment identification pilot study, we identify Ifi27 and Cct8 to be up-regulated by T cell activation. We present a method for the analysis of electropherogram similarity across large datasets, based on correlation of low-resolution representations of electrophoretic data. We show how it can be applied to analyze experimental and technical variables. Using this method, we demonstrate the effect of activation and genotype. In addition, agreement of our real experimental data to the theoretical basis of DD, as well as issues in anchoring primer selectivity, are studied.
Stat4 limits DNA methyltransferase recruitment and DNA methylation of the IL-18Ralpha gene during Th1 differentiation.	Stat4 is required for Th1 development, although how a transiently activated factor generates heritable patterns of gene expression is still unclear. We examined the regulation of IL-18Ralpha expression to define a mechanism for Stat4-dependent genetic programming of a Th1-associated gene. Although Stat4 binds the Il18r1 promoter following IL-12 stimulation and transiently increases acetylated histones H3 and H4, patterns of histone acetylation alone in Th1 cells may not be sufficient to explain cell-type-specific patterns of gene expression. The level of DNA methylation and recruitment of Dnmt3a to Il18r1 inversely correlate with IL-18Ralpha expression, and blocking DNA methylation increases IL-18Ralpha expression. Moreover, there was decreased Il18r1-Dnmt3a association and DNA methylation following transient trichostatin A-induced histone hyperacetylation in Stat4-/-Th1 cultures. Increased association of Dnmt3a and the Dnmt3a cofactor Dnmt3L with the promoters of several Stat4-dependent genes was found in Stat4-/- Th1 cultures, providing a general mechanism for Stat4-dependent gene programming. These data support a mechanism wherein the transient hyperacetylation induced by Stat4 prevents the recruitment of DNA methyltransferases and the subsequent repression of the Il18r1 locus.
STAT4: a risk factor for type 1 diabetes?	Genes and mechanisms involved in autoimmune diseases, affecting approximately 5% of human population, remain still obscure but there is accumulating evidence that common genetic factors might predispose to multiple autoimmune disorders. STAT4, a transcription factor transmitting signals induced by several key cytokines, has recently been identified as a genetic risk factor for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and Sjögren's disease (SD), thus indicating that multiple autoimmune diseases may share common biochemical pathways that lead to immune deregulation. Here we demonstrate for the first time, in a genetically homogeneous population, the association of the STAT4 rs7574865 G/T polymorphism, which has been shown to be associated with these autoimmune diseases, with susceptibility to type 1 diabetes (T1D). The susceptibility is associated with a significant increase of the frequency of the T allele (p = 0.0012, two-tailed chi(2), OR = 1.94, 95% CI = 1.29-2.91) in this single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). We also present an indication for association with Wegener's granulomatosis. These findings suggest that this variant form of STAT4 may have a putative key role in the development of a variety of autoimmune diseases, probably because of signaling defects that it causes in the IL-12 pathway.
Association between the rs7574865 polymorphism of STAT4 and rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis.	The aim of this study was to determine whether the rs7574865 polymorphism of STAT4 (signal transducers and activators of transcription 4) confers susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in populations with different ethnicities. A meta-analysis was conducted on the T allele of the STAT4 rs7574865 polymorphism in 15 studies containing 16,088 RA patients and 16,509 normal control subjects. Meta-analysis revealed an association between RA and the STAT4 rs7574865 T allele in all subjects (OR = 1.271, 95% CI = 1.197-1.350, P < 0.001). Furthermore, the STAT4 rs7574865 T allele was found to be significantly associated with RA in Europeans and Asians (OR = 1.300, 95% CI = 1.195-1.414, P < 0.001; OR = 1.216, 95% CI = 1.135-1.303, P < 0.001). Stratification of RA patients according to the presence of anti-CCP antibody revealed a statistically significant association between the T allele and RA in both anti-CCP-positive and -negative RA patients versus controls. Europeans had the lowest (21.4%) and Asians had the highest (32.0%) prevalence of the T allele among the populations studied. In conclusion, this meta-analysis confirms that the STAT4 rs7574865 polymorphism is associated with RA susceptibility in different ethnic groups, and that its prevalence is ethnicity dependent.
Genome-wide association study in Asian populations identifies variants in ETS1 and WDFY4 associated with systemic lupus erythematosus.	Systemic lupus erythematosus is a complex and potentially fatal autoimmune disease, characterized by autoantibody production and multi-organ damage. By a genome-wide association study (320 patients and 1,500 controls) and subsequent replication altogether involving a total of 3,300 Asian SLE patients from Hong Kong, Mainland China, and Thailand, as well as 4,200 ethnically and geographically matched controls, genetic variants in ETS1 and WDFY4 were found to be associated with SLE (ETS1: rs1128334, P = 2.33x10(-11), OR = 1.29; WDFY4: rs7097397, P = 8.15x10(-12), OR = 1.30). ETS1 encodes for a transcription factor known to be involved in a wide range of immune functions, including Th17 cell development and terminal differentiation of B lymphocytes. SNP rs1128334 is located in the 3'-UTR of ETS1, and allelic expression analysis from peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed significantly lower expression level from the risk allele. WDFY4 is a conserved protein with unknown function, but is predominantly expressed in primary and secondary immune tissues, and rs7097397 in WDFY4 changes an arginine residue to glutamine (R1816Q) in this protein. Our study also confirmed association of the HLA locus, STAT4, TNFSF4, BLK, BANK1, IRF5, and TNFAIP3 with SLE in Asians. These new genetic findings may help us to gain a better understanding of the disease and the functions of the genes involved.
Genetic regulation of serum cytokines in systemic lupus erythematosus.	Genetic association studies in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have been extremely successful in recent years, identifying several loci associated with disease susceptibility. Much work remains to integrate these loci into the functional pathogenic pathways that characterize the disease. Our working hypothesis is that many genetic variations linked to SLE and autoimmunity mediate the risk of disease by altering cytokine profiles or responses to cytokine signaling. Genetic polymorphisms that affect cytokine signaling could alter thresholds for immune responses, resulting in proinflammatory presentation of self-antigens and the subsequent misdirection of adaptive immunity against self, which is observed in autoimmune disease. SLE is clinically heterogeneous and genetically complex, and we expect that individual genes and cytokine patterns will be more or less important to different disease manifestations and subgroups of patients. Defining these genotype-cytokine-phenotype relationships will increase our understanding of both initial disease pathogenesis as well as subsequent response/nonresponse to various therapies. In this review, we summarize some recent work in the area of SLE cytokine genetics and describe the implications for SLE, autoimmunity, and immune system homeostasis, which are revealed by these investigations.
Potential role of IFNα in adult lupus.	Patients with lupus have a continuous production of IFNα and display an increased expression of IFNα-regulated genes. The reason for the ongoing IFNα synthesis in these patients seems to be an activation of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) by immune complexes (ICs), consisting of autoantibodies in combination with DNA-containing or RNA-containing autoantigens. The mechanisms behind the activation of pDCs by such ICs have to some extent been elucidated during the last years. Thus, interferogenic ICs are internalized via the FcγRIIa expressed on pDCs, reach the endosomes and stimulate Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 or 9, which subsequently leads to IFNα gene transcription. Variants of genes involved in both the IFNα synthesis and response have been linked to an increased risk to develop lupus. Among these genes are interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), which is involved in TLR signaling, and the signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) that interacts with the type I interferon receptor. Produced IFNα may at least partially be responsible for several of the observed alterations in the immune system of lupus patients and contribute to the autoimmune disease process, which will be discussed in the present review. How produced IFNα can contribute to some clinical manifestations will briefly be described, as well as the possible consequences of this knowledge in clinical practice for disease monitoring and therapy.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription and the risk of rheumatoid arthritis and thyroid autoimmune disorders.	The signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) gene localised on chromosome 2q32.2-q32.3 is known to be essential for mediating responses to interleukin 12 in lymphocytes and regulating the differentiation of T helper cells. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the STAT4 gene in susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs) in Tunisian case control studies.
Cumulative association of eight susceptibility genes with systemic lupus erythematosus in a Japanese female population.	Although large-scale studies established many susceptibility genes to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), effect of each gene is not sufficiently large to be used alone to identify individuals with strong genetic predisposition. In this study, we analyzed the cumulative number of risk alleles at eight established susceptibility loci, HLA-DRB1, IRF5, STAT4, BLK, TNFAIP3, TNIP1, FCGR2B and TNFSF13, in 282 Japanese female SLE and 222 healthy female controls. The average number of risk alleles was significantly increased in SLE (8.07±1.60) than healthy controls (7.02±1.64) (P=1.63 × 10(-12)). Significant gene-gene interaction was not detected. When the subjects carrying seven risk alleles were used as a reference, the odds ratio (OR) for individuals carrying 10 and 11-13 risk alleles were 4.17 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.89-9.19, P=0.0002) and 8.77 (95% CI 1.92-40.0, P=0.0016), respectively. In contrast, subjects with ≤4 risk alleles were significantly decreased in SLE (OR 0.15, CI 0.03-0.67, P=0.007). The proportion of the patients with neurologic disorder was significantly increased in those carrying ≥10 risk alleles than those with <10 (OR 2.30, CI 1.09-4.83, P=0.025). This study suggested that the cumulative number of risk alleles may efficiently distinguish groups with high and low genetic predisposition to SLE and its severe manifestation.
Deciphering the genetic background of systemic sclerosis.	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a severe autoimmune connective tissue disease. Over the years, evidence for a genetic background of SSc susceptibility has clearly accumulated. This article aims to provide an extensive overview of genetics in SSc research. We discuss indicators for a genetic component present in SSc, family studies, chromosomal aberrances, the involvement of the HLA region and multiple candidate genes and, finally, genome-wide association studies.
Non-HLA autoimmunity genetic factors contributing to Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndrome type II in Tunisian patients.	Autoimmune Polyglandular Syndrome Type II (APSII) is characterized by the co-occurrence of clinical insufficiency of at least two endocrine glands. Although, HLA determinants of APSII predisposition have been identified, little attention has been paid to non-HLA genes. Here, we used SNP genotyping in a Sequenom platform and genetic association tests to study a cohort of 60 APSII Tunisian patients presenting highly frequent co-occurrence of Autoimmune Thyroid Disease (AITD) and Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) and lower frequency of Addison's disease (AD). We tested the high a priori possibility that well-established non-HLA autoimmunity loci were involved in APSII and confirmed five association signals to APSII, namely: (1) two T1D-associated SNPs, in CTLA4 and IL2RA, suggest their involvement in T1D pathogenesis in this cohort; (2) two SNPs in STAT4 and IL15 not previously associated to endocrinopathies, are possibly involved in co-occurrence of organ autoimmunity in APSII, and; (3) one SNP in TNF alpha showed association to APSII irrespective of AD. While this work was performed in a relatively small cohort, these results support the notion that the non-HLA genetic component of APSII include genetic factors specific of particular autoimmune manifestations as well as genetic factors that promote the co-occurrence of multiple autoimmune endocrinopathies.
Identification of a susceptibility locus in STAT4 for Behçet's disease in Han Chinese in a genome-wide association study.	To identify susceptibility loci for Behçet's disease (BD) and elucidate their functional role.
Genome-wide association study identifies TH1 pathway genes associated with lung function in asthmatic patients.	Recent meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies in general populations of European descent have identified 28 loci for lung function.
Investigation of juvenile idiopathic arthritis susceptibility loci: results from a Greek population.	The strategy of studying the putative role of RA susceptibility genetic factors in the development of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), an autoimmune disease characterized by persistent chronic arthritis, has been proven highly successful so far. Moreover, accumulated evidence indicates that an ethnic heterogeneity of genetic factors exists for rheumatic disorders. We investigated whether five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), previously found to be associated with JIA in various populations so far, are also associated with JIA in Greece. The sample set consisted of 128 Caucasian JIA patients and 221 healthy controls from Northern Greece. Five Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) markers, namely TRAF1/C5 rs10818488, PTPN22 rs2476601, STAT4 rs7574865, CD247 rs1773560 and PTPN2 rs7234029 SNPs were genotyped in a case-control study with Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLPs) or Taqman primer-probe sets. This study demonstrated for the first time in a Greek population that the PTPN22, TRAF1/C5 and CD247 polymorphisms examined are associated with an increased susceptibility to JIA, thus suggesting that the respective risk alleles may confer susceptibility to clinically distinct disorders. However, our results did not demonstrate any association of STAT4 and PTPN2 SNPs with the disease in our population, thus highlighting the importance of comparative studies in different ethnic populations. 
A redundant epistatic interaction between IRF5 and STAT4 of the type I interferon pathway in susceptibility to lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.	Two transcription factors in the type I interferon pathway, IRF5 and STAT4, have been genetically associated with susceptibility to both systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study aimed to determine whether these two genes interact with each other to affect the disease susceptibilities.
A genome-wide association study in Han Chinese identifies a susceptibility locus for primary Sjögren's syndrome at 7q11.23.	Primary Sjögren's syndrome is one of the most common autoimmune diseases. So far, genetic studies of Sjögren's syndrome have relied mostly on candidate gene approaches. To identify new genetic susceptibility loci for primary Sjögren's syndrome, we performed a three-stage genome-wide association study in Han Chinese. In the discovery stage, we analyzed 556,134 autosomal SNPs in 542 cases and 1,050 controls. We then validated promising associations in 2 replication stages comprising 1,303 cases and 2,727 controls. The combined analysis identified GTF2I at 7q11.23 (rs117026326: Pcombined = 1.31 × 10(-53), combined odds ratio (ORcombined) = 2.20) as a new susceptibility locus for primary Sjögren's syndrome. Our analysis also confirmed previously reported associations in Europeans in the regions of STAT4, TNFAIP3 and the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Fine mapping of the region around GTF2I showed that rs117026326 in GTF2I had the most significant association, with associated SNPs extending from GTF2I to GTF2IRD1-GTF2I.
T cell-specific BLIMP-1 deficiency exacerbates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in nonobese diabetic mice by increasing Th1 and Th17 cells.	Recently, we demonstrated that B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein 1 (BLIMP-1) has a role in regulating the differentiation and effector function of Th1 and Th17 cells. As these cells play critical roles in the induction and pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), we investigated the potential role of T cell BLIMP-1 in modulating MOG35-55-induced EAE. We established T cell-specific BLIMP-1 conditional knockout (CKO) NOD mice to dissect the role of BLIMP-1 in EAE using loss-of-function model. Our results indicate that EAE severity is dramatically exacerbated in CKO mice. The numbers of CNS-infiltrating Th1, Th17, IFN-γ(+)IL-17A(+), and IL-21(+)IL-17A(+) CD4(+) T cells are remarkably increased in brain and spinal cord of CKO mice. Moreover, the ratio of Tregs/effectors and IL-10 production of Tregs are significantly downregulated in CNS of CKO mice. We conclude that BLIMP-1 suppresses autoimmune encephalomyelitis via downregulating Th1 and Th17 cells and impairing Treg cells. 
Association between a C8orf13-BLK polymorphism and polymyositis/dermatomyositis in the Japanese population: an additive effect with STAT4 on disease susceptibility.	Accumulating evidence has shown that several non-HLA genes are involved in the susceptibility to polymyositis/dermatomyositis. This study aimed to investigate the involvement of C8orf13-BLK, one of the strongest candidate genes for autoimmune diseases, in susceptibility to polymyositis/dermatomyositis in the Japanese population. A possible gene-gene interaction between C8orf13-BLK and STAT4, which we recently showed to be associated with Japanese polymyositis/dermatomyositis, was also analyzed.
STAT4 gene polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility and ANA status in primary biliary cirrhosis.	Recent genome-wide association studies suggest that genetic factors contribute to primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) susceptibility. Although several reports have demonstrated that the interleukin (IL) 12 signaling pathway is involved in PBC pathogenesis, its precise genetic factors have not been fully clarified. Here, we performed an association analysis between IL12A, IL12RB, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) genetic variations and susceptibility to PBC. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped in 395 PBC patients and 458 healthy subjects of Japanese ethnicity and evaluated for associations with PBC susceptibility, anti-nuclear antibody (ANA) status, and anti-mitochondrial antibody (AMA) status. We detected significant associations with PBC susceptibility for several STAT4 SNPs (rs10168266; P = 9.4 × 10(-3), rs11889341; P = 1.2 × 10(-3), rs7574865; P = 4.0 × 10(-4), rs8179673; P = 2.0 × 10(-4), and rs10181656; P = 4.2 × 10(-5)). Three risk alleles (rs7574865; P = 0.040, rs8179673; P = 0.032, and rs10181656; P = 0.031) were associated with ANA status, but not with AMA positivity. Our findings confirm that STAT4 is involved in PBC susceptibility and may play a role in ANA status in the Japanese population. 
