Electrostatic potential generated during extracorporeal pump prime circulation before cardiopulmonary bypass initiation.	The development of electrostatic potentials generated during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) procedures using polyvinylchloride (PVC) tubing in conjunction with roller pumps has been previously documented. The resulting damage from the electrostatic discharge (ESD) has been reported to affect gas transfer devices, but details of potential damage to electronic components commonly used during extracorporeal circulation have not been similarly described. The purpose of this study was to measure the ability of a triboelectric potential to be generated from a primed, circulating, adult CPB pump before the initiation of CPB. Two identical adult CPB circuits were assembled: one incorporating a roller pump and the second incorporating a centrifugal pump mechanism. Primed pumps were circulated (1-6 LPM), and evidence of generated triboelectric potentials was evaluated using a digital multimeter (Fluke 8062 A). The ESD generated from an adult CPB circuit using a roller head configuration elicited a charge in excess of 600 DC V. An identical circuit constructed with a centrifugal pump mechanism did not produce any measurable charge. Sensitive electrical components in the CPB hardware platform may be damaged by ESD potential spikes of this magnitude. Preventative measures, such as circuit charge dissipation, may reduce the potential for such damage when using PVC tubing.
An in vitro model of a system of electrical potential compensation in extracorporeal circulation.	Extracorporeal circulation (ECC) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery induces systemic immune-inflammatory reaction that results in increased postoperative morbidity. Many factors are responsible for the adverse response after ECC. The present in vitro study aimed to investigate electric charges (ECs) generated during ECC, to set a device compensating the ECs, and checking its effect on red blood cells (RBC).
