Coordinated regulation and widespread cellular expression of interferon-stimulated genes (ISG) ISG-49, ISG-54, and ISG-56 in the central nervous system after infection with distinct viruses.	The interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes (ISGs) ISG-49, ISG-54, and ISG-56 are highly responsive to viral infection, yet the regulation and function of these genes in vivo are unknown. We examined the simultaneous regulation of these ISGs in the brains of mice during infection with either lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) or West Nile virus (WNV). Expression of the ISG-49 and ISG-56 genes increased significantly during LCMV infection, being widespread and localized predominantly to common as well as distinct neuronal populations. Expression of the ISG-54 gene also increased but to lower levels and with a more restricted distribution. Although expression of the ISG-49, ISG-54, and ISG-56 genes was increased in the brains of LCMV-infected STAT1 and STAT2 knockout (KO) mice, this was blunted, delayed, and restricted to the choroid plexus, meninges, and endothelium. ISG-56 protein was regulated in parallel with the corresponding RNA transcript in the brain during LCMV infection in wild-type and STAT KO mice. Similar changes in ISG-49, ISG-54, and ISG-56 RNA levels and ISG-56 protein levels were observed in the brains of wild-type mice following infection with WNV. Thus, the ISG-49, ISG-54, and ISG-56 genes are coordinately upregulated in the brain during LCMV and WNV infection; this upregulation, in the case of LCMV, was totally (neurons) or partially (non-neurons) dependent on the IFN-signaling molecules STAT1 and STAT2. These findings suggest a dominant role for the ISG-49, ISG-54, and ISG-56 genes in the host response to different viruses in the central nervous system, where, particularly in neurons, these genes may have nonredundant functions.
BRCA1 regulates IFN-gamma signaling through a mechanism involving the type I IFNs.	BRCA1 encodes a tumor suppressor gene that is mutated in the germ line of women with a genetic predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer. BRCA1 has been implicated in a number of important cellular functions including DNA damage repair, transcriptional regulation, cell cycle control, and ubiquitination. Using an Affymetrix U95A microarray, IRF-7 was identified as a BRCA1 transcriptional target and was also shown to be synergistically up-regulated by BRCA1 specifically in the presence of IFN-gamma, coincident with the synergistic induction of apoptosis. We show that BRCA1, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-1, and STAT2 are all required for the induction of IRF-7 following stimulation with IFN-gamma. We also show that the induction of IRF-7 by BRCA1 and IFN-gamma is dependent on the type I IFNs, IFN-alpha and IFN-beta. We show that BRCA1 is required for the up-regulation of STAT1, STAT2, and the type I IFNs in response to IFN-gamma. We show that BRCA1 is localized at the promoters of the molecules involved in type I IFN signaling leading to their up-regulation. Blocking this intermediary type I IFN step using specific antisera shows the requirement for IFN-alpha and IFN-beta in the induction of IRF-7 and apoptosis. Finally, we outline a mechanism for the BRCA1/IFN-gamma regulation of target genes involved in the innate immune response, which is dependent on type I IFN signaling.
Counter-regulation mechanism of IL-4 and IFN-α signal transduction through cytosolic retention of the pY-STAT6:pY-STAT2:p48 complex.	IFN-α and IL-4 induce Th1 and Th2 responses, respectively, and often display antagonistic actions against each other. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of counter-regulation, we have investigated the signal interception by IFN-α and IL-4, employing a human B-cell line Ramos, sensitive to both cytokines. In these cells, IFN-α effectively inhibited IL-4-induced Fc epsilon receptor II (CD23) expression, whereas IL-4 suppressed IFN-α-mediated IRF7 expression. The counter-regulatory action by IL-4 and IFN-α proceeded with a delayed kinetics requiring 4 h. Notably, IFN-α did not affect the IL-4-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT6, but induced a time-dependent cytoplasmic accumulation of phosphotyrosine(pY)-STAT6 and a corresponding decrease in nuclear pY-STAT6. By confocal analysis and co-immunoprecipitation assays, we demonstrated the colocalization and molecular interaction of IL-4-induced pY-STAT6 with IFN-α-induced pY-STAT2:p48 in the cytosol. In addition, the over-expression of STAT2 or STAT6 induced the concomitant cytosolic accumulation of pY-STAT6 or pY-STAT2, leading to the suppression of IL-4-induced CD23 or IFN-α-induced IRF7 gene expression, respectively. Our data suggest that the signals ensued by IFN-α and IL-4 induce cytoplasmic sequestration of IL-4-activated STAT6 and IFN-α-activated STAT2:p48 in B cells through the formation of pY-STAT6:pY-STAT2:p48 complex, which provides a novel mechanism by which IFN-α and IL-4 cross-regulate their signaling into the nucleus.
Essential role for IKKβ in production of type 1 interferons by plasmacytoid dendritic cells.	Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are characterized by their ability to produce high levels of type 1 interferons in response to ligands that activate TLR7 and TLR9, but the signaling pathways required for IFN production are incompletely understood. Here we exploit the human pDC cell line Gen2.2 and improved pharmacological inhibitors of protein kinases to address this issue. We demonstrate that ligands that activate TLR7 and TLR9 require the TAK1-IKKβ signaling pathway to induce the production of IFNβ via a pathway that is independent of the degradation of IκBα. We also show that IKKβ activity, as well as the subsequent IFNβ-stimulated activation of the JAK-STAT1/2 signaling pathway, are essential for the production of IFNα by TLR9 ligands. We further show that TLR7 ligands CL097 and R848 fail to produce significant amounts of IFNα because the activation of IKKβ is not sustained for a sufficient length of time. The TLR7/9-stimulated production of type 1 IFNs is inhibited by much lower concentrations of IKKβ inhibitors than those needed to suppress the production of NFκB-dependent proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6, suggesting that drugs that inhibit IKKβ may have a potential for the treatment of forms of lupus that are driven by self-RNA and self-DNA-induced activation of TLR7 and TLR9, respectively.
Viral degradasome hijacks mitochondria to suppress innate immunity.	The balance between the innate immunity of the host and the ability of a pathogen to evade it strongly influences pathogenesis and virulence. The two nonstructural (NS) proteins, NS1 and NS2, of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) are critically required for RSV virulence. Together, they strongly suppress the type I interferon (IFN)-mediated innate immunity of the host cells by degrading or inhibiting multiple cellular factors required for either IFN induction or response pathways, including RIG-I, IRF3, IRF7, TBK1 and STAT2. Here, we provide evidence for the existence of a large and heterogeneous degradative complex assembled by the NS proteins, which we named "NS-degradasome" (NSD). The NSD is roughly ∼300-750 kD in size, and its degradative activity was enhanced by the addition of purified mitochondria in vitro. Inside the cell, the majority of the NS proteins and the substrates of the NSD translocated to the mitochondria upon RSV infection. Genetic and pharmacological evidence shows that optimal suppression of innate immunity requires mitochondrial MAVS and mitochondrial motility. Together, we propose a novel paradigm in which the mitochondria, known to be important for the innate immune activation of the host, are also important for viral suppression of the innate immunity.
Differential regulation of Tetraodon nigroviridis Mx gene promoter activity by constitutively-active forms of STAT1, STAT2, and IRF9.	Induction of interferons (IFNs) produces an innate immune response through activation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Type I IFN signaling activates downstream gene expression through the IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) complex, while type II IFN (IFN-γ) signaling is mediated through active STAT1 protein. The IFN target gene Mx is involved in the defense against viral infection. However, the mechanism by which Tetraodon (pufferfish) Mx is regulated by IFN signaling has not been identified. In this study, we describe the cloning and expression of Tetraodon STAT1, STAT2, and IFN regulatory factor 9 (IRF9). By combining constitutively-active STAT1 (STAT1-JH1) and STAT2 (STA2-JH1) fusion proteins with IRF9, we demonstrate that a constitutively-active ISGF3 complex increases the transcriptional activity of the Tetraodon Mx promoter via direct binding to two IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) sites. In addition, a constitutively-active TnIRF9-S2C containing a fusion of the C-terminal region of STAT2 and IRF9 also activated the Mx promoter through binding to the ISRE sites. Furthermore, constitutively-active STAT1-JH1 elevates Mx promoter activity through two IFN gamma-activated sequence (GAS) elements. The Mx promoter is also activated by constitutively-active TnIRF9-S2C and STAT1-JH1 protein, as determined using an in vivo luciferase assay. We conclude that the Tetraodon Mx gene is activated via Type I (IFN-1) and Type II (IFN-γ) signaling. These results provide mechanistic insights into the role of IFN signaling in teleosts, and the in vivo luciferase assay may be suitable as a tool for studying induction and regulation by IFNs in teleost fish.
