Roles of a helicopter emergency medical service in mass casualty incidents.	The Connecticut helicopter emergency medical service (HEMS) has responded to 12 mass casualty incidents (MCI) in two years. Eight were drills and four were actual events. An MCI response plan was instituted prior to the onset of the HEMS program. All MCIs were reviewed to determine actual victims, knowledge of MCI prior to lift-off, and roles of the HEMS. The actual roles were compared with the pre-established roles. The four actual MCIs (building explosion, hotel fire, bus rollover and plane crash) were reviewed. Sixty-seven victims were involved. Prenotification occurred in one MCI. The roles of the HEMS in each MCI were: triage (n = 4), medical treatment (n = 4), transport (n = 3), augmented response (n = 1), and air surveillance (n = 0). The roles of HEMS response to MCI should be well-defined prior to an event. Air medical benefits include response within a large geographic area, highest level of prehospital medical care, identification of trauma receiving hospitals, and facilitation of transport.
The psychological impact of the head nurse manager in transition: organizational roles for minimizing stress.	The role of the head nurse continues to expand within the contemporary health care system, and the impact of that role will seriously affect the financial viability of health care organizations. Therefore, it is apparent that these organizations must reevaluate this role in relationship to its goals and objectives. They must also adopt strategies to select the appropriate individual for the particular job and provide sufficient training for successful management behaviors. The organization that expects its novice managers to hit the ground running must prepare these managers to clear the high hurdles, endure the marathons, and sprint to the finish line.
Nurses' perceptions of temporary nursing service agencies.	Temporary staffing agencies have indeed carved out a role for themselves, and our free enterprise system lends itself to the perpetuation of the entrepreneurial spirit in all: nurses, agencies, and hospitals alike. It is wiser to learn to work with current structure realizing that supply and demand plays an important role in the survival and success of agencies. Although there are problems associated with temporary nursing staffing, they are surmountable. Orientation programs, performance monitoring, ensuring accountability of both nurse and agency are but a few that can enhance utilization and quality of service.
MRI: update on technology diffusion and acquisition.	Over the past three years, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become accepted as a valuable diagnostic tool, and its applications continue to expand. During this time, the number of units installed in the United States doubled. By 1990 about 2,000 MRI units were in place in the United States and nearly 20 percent of the MRI-installed base was mobile, according to a research study conducted by the Hadley Hart Group (Chicago) and Drew Consultants, Inc. (Concord, MA). With the introduction of the prospective payment system, many hospitals were hesitant to spend limited capital on new technology, such as MRI. At the same time, freestanding diagnostic imaging centers were on the rise. Some hospitals and entrepreneurs who foresaw the potential of MRI in health care pioneered its use in the clinical setting. Hospitals began to examine new partnership arrangements and alternative forms of financing, so that they too could offer MRI services. By the end of 1988, the majority of hospitals offering MRI services did not own their own unit and about 40 percent of the hospitals offering MRI services were in a mobile configuration according to the Hadley Hart Group. While the technology has been diffused into 100-bed hospitals via mobile service vendors in some parts of the country, many medium-sized and large hospitals also have entered the MRI services market in this fashion. In the larger hospitals, the patient demand or need for the service often would justify acquisition of MRI, but the expense of the technology, and in many areas restrictive state health planning policies, modified purchase of MRI systems by hospitals. Mobile service vendors offered hospitals a way to startup MRI services in a limited fashion without a major capital expenditure and its associated risk. As hospitals gain experience with mobile MRI and achieve or exceed their early utilization projections, administrators are reevaluating the need to expand services to a full-time fixed site. Early fixed-site MRI providers have been constantly upgrading their MRI capability while planning on adding more units. The technology itself has continued to improve, primarily through the implementation of new software that permits new techniques such as MR angiography (MRA) to be performed. Units are available in a wide price range, price usually reflecting both the field strength (0.5 tesla units cost less) as well as the additional capabilities beyond routine imaging (MRA, spectroscopy).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Hospitals put teeth into efforts to collect bad debt.	The growth of bad debt and accounts receivable is prompting hospitals across the county to adopt more stringent collection policies. Some hospitals that have gotten tough are finding that these programs can significantly increase cash flow. But experts warn that such measures invite public criticism. Many hospital administrators, however, are finding they have no choice except to go after patients who have the means to pay.
The dying patient: a comparative study of nurse caregiver characteristics.	The nurse's interaction with the dying patient is thought to be influenced by death anxiety, attitudes toward death, and perceptions of control. Differences relative to these three variables between nurses who work on a continuous basis with the dying and those who rarely encounter a dying patient were examined. Using 3 paper and pencil questionnaires, data were collected from 105 nurses (32 palliative care nurses, 44 psychiatric nurses, 29 orthopedic nurses). Significant differences were found between the palliative care nurses and nonpalliative care nurses on attitudes toward death and on 3 of the 4 subscales that assessed death anxiety. Suggestions for future research include a systematic examination of the relationship of attitudes and feelings about death to patient care.
Applying ethics to health care: the role of continuing education.	The study of ethics will not provide health care professionals with specific answers to specific ethical dilemmas they as individuals may face. it will not provide specific rules of conduct. The ability to examine ethical dilemmas sets forth practical wisdom that provides guidance when making decisions. The study of ethics helps to define problems and establishes basic principles to be used in solving these problems. It can help health care professionals identify appropriate goals and give them direction in achieving those goals. Health care supervisors have an obligation to provide the educational opportunity that will enable professionals to emerge with a perspective that allows them to take an ethical stand and to support that position with sound, rational thinking. In fulfilling this obligation, individuals working within health care facilities can significantly contribute to their profession and to society.
What do Michigan RNs want?	Which is more important to your RNs--professional status or pay? The information in this article will help you attract and retain your share of highly skilled RNs in today's competitive market.
Air medical response to the 1990 Will County, Illinois, tornado.	At least 29 people were killed and over 300 injured on August 28, 1990, when a powerful tornado cut a path of destruction through the outskirts of Chicago. The tornado's destructive force began a mammoth rescue effort from over 50 emergency medical service agencies, 80 ambulances, 1,000 rescue personnel, and Chicago's two air medical helicopters. The EMS effort was supplemented by an equally large response from police, fire, heavy rescue, K-9, and other emergency teams across north and central Illinois. Medical mass casualty incident procedures were activated and coordinated through the Will-Grundy Emergency Medical Services System, located at Silver Cross Hospital in Joliet. The towns of Crest Hill, Plainfield, and Joliet were the hardest hit, with more than $200 million in damages. The tornado strained not only the ground-based EMS and rescue systems, but taxed the resources of the city's air medical programs as well. This paper reviews the response by critical care air medical transport teams to this natural disaster.
Hospital-physician relations. Beyond courtship to the ties that bind.	Years ago, perhaps when relationships were simpler and possibly more enduring, physicians had one request of hospitals, namely, "Give us a good workshop in which to practice." With increased diversification and competition in the health care environment, their demands have become more complex, even as hospitals have become more eager to please. Hospitals and physicians know they need each other, but the hospital usually plays the role of the suitor. It is a role that can involve wasteful investments in time, energy and money if the courtship isn't inspired by real knowledge of what physicians actually want from the relationship.
Has battle for business carried a cost?	A diversity of opinion surrounds that question. National Research Corp. found a range of answers among hospital CEOs, consumers, employers and physicians. Most hospital administrators believe competition's helped; most employers aren't so sure. But as for costs, administrators believe competition has accelerated expenses, not slowed them down.
Level of knowledge and misconceptions about cholesterol: gender and race differences.	This study highlights the differences in knowledge and misconceptions about cholesterol according to gender and race in the United States. Data were obtained from a randomly selected national sample of 1,068 adults. Respondents were asked a series of true-false questions covering such topics as recommended cholesterol levels, how cholesterol is reduced, the effect of diet, smoking habits, and exercise on cholesterol levels, etc. The results indicated that the knowledge level differed according to gender and race.
Clinical evaluation of ColdSpor, a glutaraldehyde-phenolic disinfectant.	Disinfecting solutions may vary in concentration and bactericidal activity with use, may have subjectively unpleasant characteristics, and may affect the appearance and physical condition of the equipment processed. We evaluated the high-level disinfectant ColdSpor (0.5% glutaraldehyde, 0.025% ortho-phenylphenol, and 0.005% para-tertiary amylphenol) by using it as the disinfecting agent in the processing of equipment for a large respiratory care service.
Commutability of reference materials in clinical chemistry.	The term commutability applied to reference materials denotes the ability of the material to show interassay changes comparable to those observed in the measurement of the same analyte in human serum.  In this study commutability was studied by first establishing the relationship between the results obtained on patient serum samples with two independent methods for a given analyte.  Then, the calibration or control material was assayed with the same pair of methods, and its interassay bias was statistically compared with that shown by patient sera.  The results obtained in 27 experiments showed that the frequencies of noncommutability in the measurement of some nonenzymic organic components, enzymes, and inorganic ions were, respectively, 25/83, 44/99, and 32/61.  The impact of noncommutability of the materials on the results of external quality assessment schemes (EQAS), matrix interferences, and the behavior of particular components are considered. The conclusion drawn is that each material should be tested for commutability before it is used as a reference material.
A comparison of hospital-integrated and freestanding ambulatory-surgery programs. Their uses of selected procedures.	For a variety of good reasons, the use of ambulatory surgery in the U.S. grew significantly during the 1980s. Both hospital-integrated and freestanding outpatient programs were developed, although a general lack of research on ambulatory surgery has not confirmed either approach's impact. Using the programs of Syracuse, New York, the author compares the two programs' volumes of procedures performed and each program's standing within the entire ambulatory-surgery community.
Coordination and citizen participation.	This study investigates the validity of the assumption that coordination and citizen participation are related inversely and, thus, are incompatible as features in the same social service reform strategy. Seventeen social service organizations situated in the same urban area were studied. Data were obtained by structured interview. The concepts of coordination and citizen participation were operationalized by means of scales. The findings support the validity of the assumption noted above. Although interpretations of the findings can be provided, they are post-factum. This implies a need for explanatory research which might be guided by theories of community power structure and of organizational behavior.
Assessing personal, role, and organizational predictors of managerial commitment.	Using a role and exchange theory framework, this study examines the commitment to their organization and to the federal service of 634 managers in 71 federal government organizations. Results indicate that certain role factors such as tenure and work overload and personal factors such as attitude toward change and job involvement are strong influences on commitment. Implications of the findings and the need for further theoretical and methodological refinements are discussed.
Why boards need fresh information, not warmed-over management reports.	To exercise leadership, boards need information that is exclusively prepared to help them fulfill their unique responsibilities. This article examines, in view of our changing economic environment, what kind of information the board needs to receive, how often it should be forthcoming, in what format, and how to assess it.
New trends in hospital-based services for the elderly.	What types of long-term care services are hospitals providing for the elderly? An American Hospital Association survey reveals the types of services hospitals currently provide, including specialized geriatric programs, and what services they are likely to provide in the future.
Boundaries and breakdowns: applying Agar's concept of ethnography to observations in a pediatric clinic.	This paper discusses a methodology for observing and describing interactions between clinicians and patients in an inner-city pediatric clinic serving families of diverse ethnicity. The framework is derived from Michael Agar's concept of ethnography as an interpretive, problem-resolving method. In Agar's model, the participant-observer moves cognitively and analytically from focusing on breakdown (awareness of a problem in understanding) to resolution (applying knowledge structures or schemas to bounded phenomena or strips) and ultimately to coherence. This framework applies not only to describing what the ethnographer does, but also stages in the clinician's efforts to communicate. Awareness of repeated breakdowns allows the ethnographer to document fundamental differences in expectations and premises that affect communication between clinician and patient. Two major types of breakdowns are discussed: those occurring between clinic staff and families, and those occurring between staff and ethnographer. Terminological and analytical modifications of Agar's method are recommended to reflect more accurately the ethnographer's degree of involvement in the communication breakdown (active resolution versus passive resolution). The paper concludes that Agar's model provides a useful structure for developing a systematic ethnographic language that can readily be demonstrated and communicated to clinicians.
Is your department understaffed?	Materials management staffing patterns have been reasonably stable for 12 years although many large hospitals have made cuts. This article will help HMM readers compare their own staff sizes with other comparably sized hospitals.
Lasting effects of CPE: a five year review.	Attempts to test the hypothesis that Clinical Pastoral Education is an effective means of training people for ministry by surveying former CPE students using a questionnaire. Concludes from statistical analyses of results that the particular program surveyed produced lasting effects. A critical response in which limitations of the survey are noted, particularly in which limitations of the survey are noted, particularly in the area of methodology, is offered by an outside professional.
Evaluation of therapeutic ultrasound devices: performance stability over 44 weeks of clinical use.	The aim of this study is to establish at what time intervals regular checks of therapeutic ultrasound devices (TUSD) should be made to verify power output, timer accuracy, and ultrasonic frequency. Twenty-nine TUSDs from physiotherapy departments of 11 hospitals affiliated with the University of Montreal were retained for the study. The make, model, date of purchase, and other pertinent data of the TUSDs were determined from a questionnaire completed by each participating hospital. Power output, timer accuracy, and ultrasonic frequency of the TUSDs were verified every 4 weeks during a 20-week period with 2 further verification visits at 12-week intervals to complete the study. Data collected included the duration, intensity, and frequency of use of the TUSDs. The humidity and ambient temperature of the treatment locales were also recorded. At the initial verification, 66 percent of the TUSDs were found to be outside of tolerance limits for ultrasound intensity and 35 percent had inaccurate timers. For the duration of the study (44 weeks), 62 percent (18) of the TUSDs had to be calibrated at least twice, 38 percent (11) three times, and 31 percent (9) needed to be calibrated at least four times. Statistical analysis of the data failed to identify which factor or factors caused the deterioration in calibration of these TUSDs. Among the suggestions for improving the accuracy and safety of ultrasound treatments is that calibration verification should be made every 4 weeks and at even shorter intervals for some units. The authors suggest a follow-up study to determine the results of weekly verification.
Treatment discontinuance: grounds for optimism.	The effects of discontinuance on treatment outcome in a family service agency are examined. Results indicated that many discontinuing clients benefit from treatment, although not as much as continuing clients benefit. Discrepancies between the views of clients and practitioners are discussed.
The nursing shortage becomes a growing human resource priority.	As trustees nationwide are discovering, the nursing shortage is rapidly becoming a top human resource priority. With the number of vacant positions for registered nurses on the upswing, hospitals are under increasing pressure to maintain cost-effective, high-quality health care.
The Medication Information Line for the Elderly. A consumer/health care professional-oriented drug information service.	The experiences of a drug information telephone service aimed at older adults, their care providers, and health care professionals are presented. The Medication Information Line for the Elderly received 1,561 telephone calls over the 12 months since its opening. The majority of callers (73%) were female and 723 (46%) of the 1,561 calls came from people in the 65 to 79 age group. Nearly one-third of all enquiries were about suspected drug-related adverse drug reactions. The drugs most commonly causing concern (as classified by the American Hospital Formulary Service) were nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, cardiac drugs, and benzodiazepines; a list comparable to the most frequently prescribed drugs in older adults. The pharmacist was able to respond to 853 (27%) of the 3,172 enquiries without reference material. The most frequently used sources of information were the USP Drug information, Volumes I & II, and the Compendium of Pharmaceuticals and Specialties. Follow-up calls on certain consumer enquiries indicated that 89% of the recommendations were adhered to, suggesting a beneficial influence of this type of drug information service on medication use.
The effect of pharmacy intervention on aminoglycoside costs.	Antibiotics constitute a large percentage of every hospital's drug budget. In an effort to control the escalating costs of antimicrobial therapy, we focused on the usage of aminoglycosides at our institution. The aminoglycosides, gentamicin and tobramycin, are similar in terms of antimicrobial spectra and toxicities. Since gentamicin is much less expensive, it was felt that significant cost savings would be realized if gentamicin were to be used preferentially over tobramycin. Specific criteria for the use of tobramycin were developed and approved by the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee. All patients prescribed parenteral tobramycin during the five week data collection period were entered into the study. We chose to use direct verbal intervention as our method for altering physician's prescribing patterns. An educational program of intervention was set up such that when a physician prescribed tobramycin, the patient's chart was immediately reviewed. If tobramycin was prescribed for a purpose other than those in the approved criteria for tobramycin use, the physician was contacted personally to discuss the cost-effectiveness of gentamicin use. Utilization figures from the previous six months showed that our interventions would save approximately $32,000 over a one year period. Our interventions on aminoglycoside prescribing represents a highly successful, cost-effective and educational method for altering physician's prescribing patterns.
Survey search: employers and employees look at HMOs.	Two studies by Hewitt Associates indicate that enrollees are generally more satisfied with HMOs than employers that sponsor them; that adverse selection may be more a problem of perception than reality; and that users and purchasers of HMO benefits see different--and conflicting--futures for the HMO alternative.
Selecting patient accounting systems that stand out from the rest.	How satisfied is the average finance executive with the performance of his institution's patient accounting system? Not very. What causes this dissatisfaction? A variety of factors: Not enough flexibility, the inability to modify or expand the system, the lack of system interfaces, and inadequate support. These are all leading contributors to the finance executive's dissatisfaction. How much information does he have about the alternative patient accounting system vendors in the marketplace? On average, limited information. Many vendors who offer patient accounting systems have not done enough to disseminate information about their products to hospital decision makers. If the finance executive were more knowledgeable about the alternatives available, would he then be able to select a patient accounting system that fully meets the institution's needs? It would improve the odds. However, merely knowing about the alternatives is only the first step. He must be able to fully evaluate the institution's near and long-term needs to create the best match possible. The finance executive must also accept the possibility that there may not be a single system in the marketplace that can accommodate every perceived need. Only by knowledge of the marketplace will he be in a position to fully evaluate the potential benefits of the available systems.
Manpower survey. Part II: Other management positions.	This is the second in a series of three articles reporting the results of the AMRA 1986 Manpower--Salary Survey. The focus of this article is to report manpower and salary information for medical record department management positions other than that of the department director.
Financial assessment of small multihospital systems.	This article examines the financial performance of small multihospital systems relative to freestanding hospitals. Small systems, defined as seven or fewer hospital units, were analyzed for three ownership categories: investor owned, church related, and secular not-for-profit. Finding few statistically significant differences between system and independent hospitals indicates that small systems are unable to fulfill the financial promises of system affiliation.
Information systems and physician practice patterns: England and America compared.	This paper discusses the opportunity for hospital management to make greater use of comparative data on physician productivity. We report findings from a study on utilization information provided to physicians in 19 US and British hospitals. Most doctors reported that they did not receive information comparing their own use of resources with that of their peers. However, our survey found that a significant majority of doctors want more information and find it useful; but, that hospital managers perceive doctors as being uninterested in such information. While there are wide variations between the two countries and between their hospitals in data collection and information systems, most hospitals surveyed could make better use of utilization information to influence physician practice patterns.
Has PPS affected the sophistication of cost accounting?	The introduction of PPS has had a large effect on the healthcare industry. One area influenced by PPS has been cost accounting and its level of sophistication. Survey results show that necessity is the "mother of innovation,"and those hospitals under PPS, requiring accurate cost measurement, are more innovative in their approach to hospital cost accounting.
Economic evaluation of six scenarios for the treatment of stones in the kidney and ureter by surgery or extra-corporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	Health policy makers in the U.K. have had to respond to the advent of a new, high technology, method of treating stones. In order to assist the definition of an appropriate policy this evaluative study of the new technique was undertaken. The economic benefits of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) were compared with those of conventional open surgery for the treatment of upper urinary tract stones considering 6 possible 'scenarios', or intuitively plausible combinations of prices and levels of diffusion. It was concluded that second generation ESWL machines operated and financed at designated 'stone coalitions of health regions for a supra-regional population of about 12-15 million would be the most cost efficient option. Use of the currently available Dornier machine on the same supra-regional basis would be the, somewhat more expensive, second best option. These results, along with a range of supplementary documentation, were presented to both the national Department of Health and Social Security, and to the North Western Regional Health Authority. The NWRHA in turn presented its case to a supra-regional committee. The most cost-effective solution was adopted by this supra-regional committee.
Health services financing in Poland.	The right to a free health service is identified as one of the founding rules of socialism; yet other sources of funding, both public and private, should not be neglected. This article reviews the major sources of financing health services in Poland. In particular, a description is made of the size and composition of funding from non-governmental sources including: quasi-budget funds, other funds, and out-of-pocket payments; and some proposals are made for change. Further work is needed in developing the criteria by which policy choices can be made, and in developing the information base; at the same time, political and social criteria will still be very important, not least on the issue of user charges.
Consumer payment patterns for primary health care services in low-income communities of Rio de Janeiro: implications for designing service financing schemes.	Primary health care (PHC) services are now recognized as a mainstay of development in low-income regions of the world. Yet, in many of these areas, economic conditions that include a burgeoning international debt, precipitous drops in the prices of raw materials, expanding population bases, and faltering currency rates, make the effective financing of PHC services an issue requiring the most immediate attention. A potentially valuable source of assistance in such endeavors is data on consumers' payment patterns for PHC services, and on socioeconomic conditions within their communities. The Centro de Pesquisas de Assistência Integrada à Mulher e à Criança (CPAIMC), the principal private source of PHC in Rio de Janeiro, has collected these type of data for nine low-income communities (LICs) within the Greater Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region. The current paper interfaces these data with previously developed solutions to address the problem of financing PHC services within the nine LICs. The solutions were recommended by a methodology developed and implemented by two of the authors. Results indicate that the consumer payment pattern and socioeconomic data support the methodology's recommendations and, more importantly, may be used to improve the effectiveness of those recommendations. Examples are provided and implications discussed.
A survey of professional music therapists concerning entry level competencies.	The project suggests that intended therapeutic outcomes should determine the professional competencies needed to achieve those results. Competency identification literature reflects use of presage, process and product criteria, expert consensus, job task analysis, and practitioner testimony. The present project was completed in two phases. The Phase I survey contained 150 competency statements to be rated on an 8-point necessity scale by all responding Registered Music Therapists (RMTs). Phase II contained 100 items that were rated by RMTs and Certified Music Therapists (CMTs). Findings showed a preference for an eclectic approach to treatment, the psychiatric hospital as the most used setting, and the developmentally disabled as the largest client group. Over two thirds of all responding therapists had a bachelor's degree with less than 5 years' experience. Most competencies obtained average ratings in the upper half of the scale and were placed in similarly rated groups. Very few items had ratings that reflected differences in respondent characteristics.
Commercial insurers and all-payer regulation. Evidence on hospitals' responses to financial need.	This study explores commercial insurers' claims about cost-shifting in the broader context of hospitals' responses to revenue needs. It relies on hospital survey data from 1980 and 1982, a period that pre-dates Medicare's Prospective Payment System (PPS) for hospitals. While we find that limited amounts of cost-shifting occur, evidence does not support the notion that it is a perfect safety valve to control financial status. In addition, all-payer rate-setting does not appear to be related to hospitals' ability to shift costs. Instead, inpatient rate controls cause hospitals to contain costs, seek greater outpatient revenues and accept lower margins. Are the financial 'stresses' associated with PPS sufficient enough to kick off renewed concerns about cost-shifting? Some aggregate data from the PPS-era indicates that lower growth in Medicare payments has not resulted in cost-shifting on a widespread basis.
Working conditions and the relationship between schooling and health.	This paper's main objective is to investigate an occupational linkage in the empirically observed positive relationship between schooling and health. Combining results from the health economics literature and labor economic studies of occupational choice, a theoretical model is developed which allows schooling to affect health directly and indirectly, through choice of work environment and other market inputs in health production. The model is estimated using data from the 1980 Health Interview Survey, combined with occupational information from the Dictionary of Occupational Titles. The empirical results indicate the existence of a small occupation effect in the schooling-health relationship, but this effect is conservatively estimated and biased downward given the presence of unobserved differences in individuals' initial health status. The general findings highlight the importance of investigating the health effects of occupational hazards using longitudinal data and comprehensive measures of hazards which include stress at work.
Women's schooling and children's health. Are the effects robust with adult sibling control for the women's childhood background?	Women's schooling is thought to have an important positive impact on children's health and nutrition in developing countries. A special adult sister sample from Nicaragua is used to explore this relation. Standard individual reduced-form estimates suggest a strong positive impact. With control for the unobserved common childhood family background characteristics shared by the sisters, the impact of women's schooling on nutrition is quite robust, but on the health outcomes declines substantially or evaporates. Thus, contrary to the standard estimates, mother's schooling does not appear to improve substantially their children's health outcomes, though it does seem to increase their nutrient intakes.
Gender, firm size, industry, and estimates of the value-of-life.	Two national probability samples are used to investigate four empirical questions associated with estimating the value-of-life using coefficients from wage regressions. The four questions pertain to whether wage regression coefficients on fatality rate variables are sensitive to (1) including or excluding women from the sample, (2) definitions of the fatality rate which include estimates of either male only or female only deaths, (3) removing the influence of firm size from the fatality rate or the wage rate, (4) respondents' inaccuracies in reporting their three-digit industry. Problems associated with (3) and (4) are found to be minimal. Problems associated with (1) and (2) also appear to be small if the goal is to estimate the value-of-life for men.
Expert systems for performance review.	A microcomputer-based expert system to interpret hospital and community health service data is described. The system analyses performance indicators, which are key statistics describing levels of achievement in terms both of policy objectives and efficiency. The system is being used to support annual performance reviews of English health authorities. The potential for application of similar systems is discussed.
Information-seeking strategies and differences among primary care physicians.	Differences in the sources of information that physicians utilize in their practice have several implications for the quality of care delivered and the dissemination of medical information. In order to examine the extent of differences in information preferences in primary care settings, 98 general internal medicine physicians and 73 family physicians were asked to indicate which of six alternative information sources they relied on most when faced with difficult medical problems. The alternatives were: journals, textbooks, informal consultations with colleagues, consultations with community specialists, consultations with outside specialists, and transfer of the patient to another physician. The results indicated that primary care internists have a greater preference for consulting the medical literature, while family physicians more often rely on colleagues and specialists as sources of information. These differences suggest that the focus of information dissemination through journals or textbooks may be more effective for internists, while colleagues or "educationally influential" physicians in the community may be more effective vehicles for information dissemination to family physicians.
All about private case management.	In recent years, the number of private firms offering various case management services (primarily to the elderly) has increased geometrically, yet little has been known about their goals, organization, quality control measures, fees, costs or staff credentials. Now InterStudy has evaluated this emerging health service sector in-depth, and the two primary researchers report the results of their unique study in this article.
Opinions of health care executives on access to care.	A poll of the opinions of 359 health care executives (American College of Healthcare Executives affiliates) on access to care shows that they are ambivalent about entitling the entire United States population to equal access to health services. Half of the survey respondents support the concept and nearly half do not. Further results reveal that for nonemergency care, a greater number of health care executives are willing to allow the poor/uninsured to wait than if they were paying patients. Also, half of those polled approve of the poor or uninsured not having a choice of primary physician, hospital, or source of custodial care. Overall, however, 80 percent believe that system-related health outcomes should be similar for the poor and the nonpoor. The role of the government in funding health care in the U.S. is still viewed as supplementing private resources. Few condone any universal health care entitlement. However, for the poor, according to half of those polled, the government should underwrite life-sustaining surgery; it should underwrite prenatal care, according to two-fifths; and a third thought government should fund custodial care for invalids and the elderly. This hierarchy may suggest where government health care funding is crucial.
A study on absenteeism among hospital personnel.	This is a retrospective study on absenteeism in a large teaching hospital covering the calender years 1982 and 1983. The number of personnel under study is 2.700 divided in six professional categories: administrative employees, qualified nurses, non-qualified nurses, laboratory technicians, caterers, cleaners. A 30% sample was chosen by the method of stratified sampling. Data were collected for each person on personal and professional factors. Absence data were collected for each person and were analysed by computer techniques. Females form the majority of the sample (82%). The overall absence rate was 9%; on excluding maternity leave it was around 6%. Female workers have double the pregnancy rate of employees and double their absence rate (maternity leave excluded). Both younger age groups have a high frequency of absence. A consistantly higher absenteeism was observed in females than in males even after the exclusion of pregnancy. Nationality had only a slight influence. The effects of seasonal variations was observed: increase in the winter and decrease in the summer. The factor education showed a direct relationship with absenteeism, the higher the education, the lower the absenteeism and vice versa. In order to detect which factors significantly influence absenteeism, each isolated factor was first considered. 'Marital status' appeared to be the most significant. On the multifactorial analysis, only education was found to be highly significant. Profession appeared also significant but is correlated to education. From these data, the probability of absenteeism can be determined. Propositions are made for an effective registration of absences and some approaches to reduce absenteeism are discussed.
Is the risk of failure increasing in the hospital industry?	Is the risk of failure increasing? According to a survey of U.S. hospitals conducted by Touche Ross & Co., 46 percent of the hospitals responding to the survey say their institutions are at risk of failure within the next five years, an increase of 3 percent from two years ago. Hospitals in all bed size categories express a greater risk of failure in 1988 than in 1986, and the smaller hospitals, which represented the largest portion at risk of failure in 1986, feel even more at risk now. Clearly, the health-care industry is moving into a period of transition that will affect the very structure of health-care delivery.
The implications of a national study of risk of anaesthesia.	In order to set up measures to improve safety in anesthesia, the French Ministry of Health charged the Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (I.N.S.E.R.M.) with conducting an epidemiological survey of complications associated with anaesthesia. A prospective survey was carried out from 1978 to 1982 in a representative sample of 198,103 anaesthesias performed in 460 public and private institutions randomly selected throughout the country. There were 268 major complications associated with anaesthesia occurring during or within 24 hours after anaesthesia (incidence 1.35 per 1000), among these 67 were followed by death and 16 by coma. The incidence of deaths and comas totally attributable to anaesthesia was one per 7924. Half of the deaths and comas totally attributable to anaesthesia were from post-anaesthetic respiratory depression which could be directly linked to a dramatic lack of recovery rooms. The extension of the study to all institutions revealed that 25% of teaching hospitals, 43% of non-teaching hospitals and 20% of private clinics did not have a recovery room available. A total number of 12,000 recovery beds was estimated to be necessary in France; 40% being currently available leaving 60% to be created.
Preference segmentation of health care services: the old-fashioneds, value conscious, affluents and professional want-it-alls.	The results of a national segmentation study are reported. The findings extend the empirical work of Finn and Lamb and the benefit-seeking conjectures by Kotler and Clarke that consumers with preferences toward specific hospitals can be segmented into a few distinct groups. The groups described in the findings are identified as the value conscious, the affluents, the old-fashioneds, and the professional want-it-alls. Each segment has a unique demographic profile. The substantial importance of doctors' recommendations in influencing hospital choice is supported for all four consumer segments. Suggestions for additional research and hospital marketing strategies are provided.
Determinant attributes in formulation of attitudes toward four health care systems.	Consumers were surveyed to determine their attitudes toward four systems of health care delivery (home health care, hospitals, nursing homes, and outpatient clinics) along 10 attributes. The results are analyzed using multiple discriminant analysis. Implications for the formulation of marketing strategies are discussed.
Nurse managers and budgeting: professional/bureaucratic conflict?	Professional/bureaucratic conflict theory suggests that the extent to which nurse managers use management control systems will depend on whether their goal orientation is to system rather than output or derived goals. This article examines the use of budgeting as a management control strategy, in relation to the goal orientation of nurse managers, in four large teaching hospitals. The goal orientations and use of budgeting by nurse managers is also compared with those of physician managers and other sub-unit managers. The results indicate that nurse managers appear to be developing their goals of professionalization without a diminution of their organizational focus or their orientation towards providing a high standard of patient care.
Health care in the balance: Japanese eurythmy.	Japan's health care delivery system fits neatly into the island nation's well-ordered, carefully balanced infrastructure. The organization and operation of Japan's health system reflects the quest for harmony and balance, or eurythmy, of Japanese culture. While Japan's economic success has attracted considerable attention among management scientists, the health care system that fuels and nurtures the health status of its hyperproductive workforce has not been a topic of much interest. The organization and management of Japan's health services delivery system are analyzed in this article.
Satisfaction of country doctors.	A survey of doctors in Saskatchewan communities with fewer than 5,000 residents was conducted to determine which factors were important in maintaining job satisfaction. The response rate was 57 percent. A three-item measure of satisfaction linked the doctors' responses to a 62-item questionnaire covering professional and non-professional issues related to their rural practice. Individual variables of importance in explaining satisfaction were family factors ranging from spousal employment to children's education, availability of recreational facilities or activities and entertainment, the opportunity for social interaction, ability to have periodic rests, workload and compensation.
Medical practice and satisfaction of physicians in sparsely populated rural countries of the United States: results of a 1988 survey.	The results are reported from a mail survey to a 25 percent sample of all allopathic and osteopathic physicians practicing in countries less than 10,000 population in 1988. Overall, 71 percent of respondents indicated that they were satisfied with their practice in those areas but 23 percent indicated dissatisfaction and 26 percent planned to leave those areas within five years. Factors associated with practice dissatisfaction included lower income, long hours worked, increase in patients with inadequate medical insurance and distance from a major referral center. Thirty-two percent of respondents indicated that there were too few physicians in their counties and in aggregate projected a need for 1,100 additional physicians, or approximately a 50 percent increase relative to the current supply of physicians in such counties. Seventy-four percent of those indicating a need for more physicians stated that in their opinion the community in which they were practicing could support such additions. The survey results indicate an underlying satisfaction with rural practice but suggest the need for ongoing educational and financial incentives for such practices if the delivery of health care services in rural areas is to be improved.
Locational decisions of physicians in rural North Carolina.	Recent literature suggests that there is a rural-urban imbalance of doctors in the United States. In order to investigate this maldistribution, a survey was conducted of 504 physicians in eastern North Carolina. The objective was to determine the factors which most influenced doctors' decisions to locate their practice. A conceptual framework was used to highlight the influence of the community, medical schools and the physician's personal preferences. A discriminant analysis of rural and urban physicians revealed the doctor's personal characteristics to be most important, followed by community and medical school factors. In particular, physicians raised in smaller communities showed a greater preference for practicing in rural areas. Tactics for recruiting rural doctors and other policy recommendations are suggested.
Reequipping the lab. Part II: How to win approval for acquisitions.	Cost data and the promise of service improvements are key items that administrators look for when weighing lab instrument requests.
A grant rationing model for a health care system.	Most public health programs are created through a political process and the health administrator's resource allocation decision is influenced not only by the relative performance of the subunits but also by political considerations. This paper presents a goal programming model for rationing available grants to competing health care subunits on the basis of performance subject to resource and political constraints. Performance is defined in terms of output adjusted for non-compliance on the identified quality of care and administrative efficiency criteria. The quality and efficiency criteria are those specified by the Federal agency as amended by local funding authorities and subunit administrators through a Delphi process. The model has the advantage of flexibility and can be easily adapted to suit prevailing financial and political conditions. In particular, it can be used as a viable analytical tool in health care and other public service agencies where political considerations are important in resource allocation decisions.
An analytical review of hospital financial performance measures.	Hospital administrators must have timely, valid, and interpretable financial information that allows them to make operational decisions in response to the threats of the changing health care environment. Aggregate indexes that reflect dimensions of hospital financial performance and simplify the information in financial ratios are needed to aid in decision making. This article reviews the development and use of hospital financial performance measures and lays the groundwork for research into deriving a multidimensional measure.
An investigation of the external physician search process.	As a basis for better understanding the health care consumer and identifying ways to segment the health care market, the authors report the results of an empirical investigation of the external search process patients undertake to find a physician. The impact of a patient's perceived illness severity on this process also is investigated. Implications of the findings are discussed.
Community study suggests segmentation strategies.	Results of a sample survey commissioned by a voluntary health organization in a major metropolitan area describes why individuals give their time and money to charitable organizations and what approaches are likely to result in such donations. Within demographic subgroups, the variables of age and income proved to be important factors with respect to why people gave and what appeals they prefer. The variables of gender and education were found to be of somewhat less importance. Findings were compared with a national Gallup study conducted in 1987. In an era of increasingly specialized marketing for all organizations, the findings offer voluntary and fund-raising organizations a basis for determining appropriate appeals for demographic segments in a community.
The provision of home health care services through health maintenance organizations.	The vast majority of the HMOs responding to the survey in this study use home health care as a substitute for acute inpatient hospitalization, contract out for services with community-based home health agencies, reimburse on a discounted fee-for-service basis, and use prior authorization and concurrent review as the primary methods to control the use of home health care. These findings suggest that HMO home health care services mirror the inadequacies of Medicare home health care in that they are acute care-focused and not intended to fill the supportive and maintenance care needs of the chronically ill elderly. HMOs, however, are typically more flexible in their service provision than is Medicare. Need for home health care is determined primarily on prospective, case-by-case evaluations of cost effectiveness, not on retrospective determinations based on strict, and sometimes arbitrary, guidelines and limitations. This, however, does raise some important issues for access and quality and for the relationship between HMOs and home health agencies. Is cost containment the only legitimate reason for providing home health care? Should home health care be used solely as a substitute for acute inpatient hospitalization? Where does the locus of authority lie for deciding coverage of home health care services? This study uncovered several issues related to the provision of home health care in HMOs that created conflict and uncertainty for all parties. These issues included: conflicting roles for HMOs, whether to provide services internally or externally, contracting between HMOs and home health agencies, the locus of authority for utilization review, the role of physicians, quality assurance, and perceived problems with the Health Care Financing Administration. HMOs are often perceived as failing to do an adequate job of providing home health care services because of the difficulty in satisfying conflicting considerations in three key areas: whether home health care should be focused on cost containment or meeting unmet needs, whether home health care should be focused on acute or long term care, and the unrealistic expectations patients and providers have of HMOs. HMOs primarily provide home health care in an effort to contain costs, particularly by using home health care to substitute for inpatient hospitalization. While HMO representatives acknowledge the importance of home health care in improving the patient's and family's quality of life by providing supportive or chronic maintenance care, the use of home health care for this purpose is generally not allowed by HMOs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A profile of functionally impaired elderly persons living in the community.	The Health Care Financing Administration, in cooperation with other agencies of the Department of Health and Human Services, conducted surveys in 1982 and 1984 designed to develop a better understanding of the number and circumstances of functionally impaired elderly persons living in the community. This report is based on data from the 1982 Long-Term Care Survey. There were approximately 5 million functionally impaired elderly persons living in the community in 1982. The data show that functionally impaired persons in the community are older, are more often female, have lower incomes, and have a larger proportion of black people than the general elderly population. The data also provide baseline information on what functional impairments are prevalent among them, what means they use to cope with the limitations, and from whom they receive help. The baselines data gathered in 1982 will be supplemented by longitudinal data gathered in the 1984 Long-Term Care Survey.
Testing a diagnosis-related group index for skilled nursing facilities.	Interest in case-mix measures for use in nursing home payment systems has been stimulated by the Medicare prospective payment system (PPS) for short-term acute-care hospitals. Appropriately matching payment with care needs is important to equitably compensate providers and to encourage them to admit patients who are most in need of nursing home care. The skilled nursing facility (SNF) Medicare benefit covers skilled convalescent or rehabilitative care following a hospital stay. Therefore, it might appear that diagnosis-related groups (DRG's), the basis for patient classification in PPS, could also be used for the Medicare SNF program. In this study, a DRG-based case-mix index (CMI) was developed and tested to determine how well it explains cost differences among SNF's. The results suggest that a DRG-based SNF payment system would be highly problematic. Incentives of this system would appear to discourage placement of patients who require relatively expensive care.
Employment in health services: long-term trends and projections.	Demand for health services is expected to grow in response to the increasing number of elderly people; but growth prospects to 1995 for the industry's wage and salary workers are uncertain because of changes in both the financing and delivery of health care.
Health insurance trends in cost control and coverage.	An analysis of changes in company health plans between 1979 and 1984 shows that employers often sought to contain rising expenditures, in some cases, increasing the cost to workers; improvements in benefits, however, continued.
Predicting length of hospital stay in a pediatric ward.	The purpose of this study was to develop a statistical model for predicting hospital length of stay for pediatric patients. A sample of n = 589 patient records, representing a two year time period, was selected from a large, acute care hospital. The variables identified as possible determinants of length of stay and investigated for their effect were: age, sex, financial class, isolation status, number of operative procedures, presence of nosocomial infections, number of complications, resulting death and a classification variable identifying the final diagnosis as one of 24 mutually exclusive major diagnostic categories. An eight variable model was derived (p less than .0001) with a coefficient of multiple determination of 0.1612.
Creative staffing models in medical transcription.	This article is a summary of staffing alternatives for medical transcription developed over the years and proven successful in certain hospital facilities. Creative approaches to staffing the medical transcription unit have proved to be effective tools in the maintenance and even expansion of transcription services on a cost-effective basis in a changing marketplace.
Cost containment in a statutory health insurance scheme by substitution of outpatient for inpatient care? The case of the Bavarian Contract.	Among manifold attempts at containing the rapid growth of health care expenditure, one which attracted considerable attention was the 1979 agreement between Bavarian sick-funds and the office-based physicians of Bavaria that, in some ways, reshaped the remuneration scheme for ambulatory medical treatment. This so-called 'Bavarian Contract' tried to approach cost containment by initiating transsectoral substitution processes in favour of outpatient medical care and to the disfavour of, above all, the hospital sector of the health care system. This paper deals with the question whether in Bavaria (between 1979 and 1983/84) the structure of services and prescriptions was modified in a way that indicates the occurrence of substitution processes as intended by the 'Bavarian Contract'; also, whether there is any evidence of cost containment effects brought about the intensifying the ambulatory services of office-based physicians. The study results provide some weak hints at substitution processes in favour of ambulatory services; but there is no evidence that expanding ambulatory medical services may help to contain the growth of health care expenditure.
Children and Medicaid: the experience in four states.	Medicaid coverage of children is analyzed in this article, using data from uniform Medicaid files (Tape-to-Tape) for California, Georgia, Michigan, and New York. Results show that Medicaid is a different program to children of different enrollment groups and ages. For children receiving cash assistance through either Aid to Families with Dependent Children or Supplemental Security Income, Medicaid represents a source of ongoing health coverage. However, for children in families not receiving cash assistance, coverage is more episodic and disproportionately related to acute care and hospitalization. Across all child enrollment groups, infants had higher than expected utilization and expenditures.
Use of dental services in 1980.	In this article, we describe the use of dental services by the civilian noninstitutionalized population of the United States in 1980. Data are presented on the extent to which this population is insured for dental expenses, their use of dental services, the charges incurred, and the sources of payment for these services.
Comparative trends in hospital expenses, finances, utilization, and inputs, 1970-81.	The annual surveys of the American Hospital Association historically have been only national source of statistics on hospital structure and performance. Although valuable, this source has not provided the policy or research community with hospital-specific information on revenues, assets, and financial status. Data on these and other variables from heretofore unpublished Medicare cost report data are presented in this article. Hospital expenses, revenues, profits, indebtedness, utilization, investments, and employees are trended over the 1970-81 period by urban-rural location, teaching status, and ownership. It is indicated in these data that a major transformation in the hospital industry has occurred in response to cost-based Medicare-Medicaid and other factors that made acute care essentially unaffordable to the average citizen. The health maintenance organization movement and Medicare's prospective payment system are seen as logical reactions to this transformation.
Outpatient prescription drug spending by the Medicare population.	Legislation proposed in the 100th Congress and debated during the summer of 1987 would cover prescription drug spending by Medicare enrollees after the enrollee had met a deductible. However, at the time that the legislation was proposed, there were no comprehensive estimates of the extent of current expenditures for prescription drugs by that population, nor of the expected cost of the proposed coverage. In this article, the author estimates "current-law" drug spending by Medicare enrollees. A distribution around the average expenditure is developed, demonstrating the proportion of users that exceed any given annual expenditure and the proportion of total expenditures comprised by spending in excess of that "deductible."
Hospital utilization and expenditures for Medicaid enrollees by major diagnosis group.	The distribution of Medicaid hospital discharges and expenditures by major diagnosis group for Medicaid enrollees in California, Michigan, and New York during 1982 are examined in this article. Although hospital expenditures represent a major component of Medicaid expenditures, the extent of variation in Medicaid inpatient utilization and expenditures across diagnoses and between States has not been previously studied. In this article, Medicaid inpatient hospital utilization and expenditure data by major diagnosis group from the Health Care Financing Administration's Tape-to-Tape data base are examined to determine whether significant interstate differences exist.
How hospitals manage operating room delays.	This article reports the background and findings of a study made in late summer of 1987 on the incidence and management of some factors identified as contributing to delays, and thus inefficiency, in operating room utilization.
Where are all the health care workers?	From the Panhandle to the Rio Grande Valley, the Gulf Coast to Big Bend, major health care systems to rural hospitals, the story is the same: There aren't enough qualified health care workers to go around, and the problem is getting worse.
Patients' satisfaction with physician assistant services.	Research on patient satisfaction with physician assistants in rural primary care medical practices is lacking. This study attempted to: determine patients' satisfaction with family practice PAs in rural communities, assess patient perceptions of "comfort" with PAs in a range of hypothetical medical procedures, analyze patients' reactions to PAs as a function of patient characteristics, and document perceptions of changes in medical practices after PAs are employed. Findings support reports that patients are highly satisfied with PA services and extends those observations to rural primary care practices. Reaction to PAs is more favorable among women, more favorable in patients with more education, and more favorable among those with greater contact with PAs.
Utilization of physician assistants in group practice.	Although there is a growing surplus of physicians in the United States, predictions are that the use of physician assistants (PAs) in group practice will continue to grow during this decade. Patient accessibility is the most important reason. Based on a recent survey, findings concerning the current and future utilization of PAs in group practice are presented.
The medical staff role: management in rural hospitals.	For this study medical chiefs of staff were asked about their views and the views of their medical staff regarding the management of their rural hospitals. Findings disclose a discrepancy between expectations and reality for the physician's role in the management of their institutions. However, the chiefs recommended no changes in the organizational structure, although they did suggest improved communication and better board-administration organization management. Although cooperation and team management were considered important, joint ventures between the physicians and their rural hospitals were perceived with skepticism.
Physician managers: a description of their job in hospitals.	There are those who view management as generic and others who argue that the health care system is significantly different from other systems, requiring managers with special knowledge and skills. This study uses a task inventory mailed to members of the American Academy of Medical Directors (AAMD) to describe and analyze the job of physicians who are in hospital management positions. Physician manager responsibility for the tasks was analyzed by calculating the percentage of responsibility and examining the rank tasks within management function categories. This measures the degree of relationship between two sets of rank-ordered items for task responsibility. Findings indicated that tasks dealing with policy management were among those most likely to be performed by physician administrators while the financial aspects of management are those for which physician managers were least responsible. It was also revealed that physician managers were more involved with program management than with resource management tasks.
The use and value of third surgical opinions.	The results of new research into the contributions of third surgical opinions to health care quality and cost-effectiveness are reported by the Director and top Marketing and Research officers of the Health Benefits Research Center. As executives of the oldest second surgical opinion network in the U.S., the authors were able to test widespread beliefs about second and third opinion programs. Some, they found, did not hold up.
The influence of experience on the reproducibility of the ankle-brachial systolic pressure ratio in peripheral arterial occlusive disease.	to estimate the intra-observer variability of the measurement of the ankle-brachial systolic pressure index (ABPI) and to compare the reproducibility of the measurements by experienced vascular laboratory assistants and by less-experienced general practice personnel.
Inductive plethysmography components analysis and improved non-invasive postoperative apnoea monitoring.	Twenty-nine patients were monitored overnight for breathing distress patterns during postoperative analgesia. Nasal flow apnoea monitoring and pulse oximetry data were recorded at 50 Hz. Respiratory inductive plethysmography (RIP) tracked tidal volume (TV) thoracoabdominal motion, and supplemented the flow monitoring by identifying detected apnoea type. TVs were computed from linear combinations of the RIP signals, but calibrations showed that multiple regression approaches with fitting errors <1% had highly variable coefficients and estimate precisions. Simple least squares theory showed that unstable parameter calculation and coefficient variation with signal conditions were inherent in RIP calibration models. Principal components (PC) methods were well suited to mitigating these problems because the RIP signals were highly correlated. The two PCs tracked the relative changes in TVs and indicated the degree of signal asynchrony, enabling improved uncalibrated monitoring. For accurately measuring RIP phase differences, the cross-correlation function was calculated. A simple version of PC analysis is developed, avoiding matrices, to help clarify how RIP calibration problems can be addressed. The methods are illustrated for calibration in normal breathing, and for postoperative monitoring during Cheyne-Stokes breathing. Sum and difference combinations of the RIP signals could discriminate central from obstructive apnoeas to help improve flow monitoring efficacy on-line.
Transproteomic evidence of a loop-deletion mechanism for enhancing protein thermostability.	Understanding the molecular determinants of protein thermostability is of theoretical and practical importance. While numerous determinants have been suggested, no molecular feature has been judged of paramount importance, with the possible exception of ion-pair networks. The difficulty in identifying the main determinants may have been the limited structural information available on the thermostable proteins. Recently the complete genomes for mesophilic, thermophilic and hyperthermophilic organisms have been sequenced, vastly improving the potential for uncovering general trends in sequence and structure evolution related to thermostability and, thus, for isolating the more important determinants. From a comparative analysis of 20 complete genomes, we find a trend towards shortened thermophilic proteins relative to their mesophilic homologs. Moreover, sequence alignments to proteins of known structure indicate that thermophilic sequences are more likely than their mesophilic homologs to have deletions in exposed loop regions. The new genomes offer enough comparable sequences to compute meaningful statistics that point to loop deletion as a general evolutionary strategy for increasing thermostability.
Nasal nitric oxide is independent of nasal cavity volume.	This study was performed to evaluate the relationship between nasal nitric oxide (NO) and changes in nasal cavity volume resulting from the topical application of xylometazoline and saline and between upright and supine posture. Nasal NO was measured using a fixed high flow technique that avoids contamination with lower airways NO. In nine healthy subjects nasal NO concentration was measured by a rapid response chemiluminescent analyzer. A tapered tube was inserted in one nostril, into which room air was insufflated to produce a constant flow of 100 mL/second; another tube was inserted into the opposite nostril for NO sampling (air exit side). Subjects were instructed to keep the vellum closed while NO was sampled through a sideport connected to the analyzer. Nasal cavity volume was measured by acoustic rhinometry from a segment of the acoustic pathway, 2 to 5 cm from the nostril. Nasal cavity volume and NO measurements were made at baseline, 15 minutes, and 60 minutes after intervention (administration of saline 0.9%, xylometazoline or posture changes on 3 consecutive days). Xylometazoline produced a significant increase in nasal cavity volume, together with a significant reduction in NO level at 15 and 60 minutes after intervention. In addition, the change from seated to supine position decreased the total nasal volume significantly, but without changes in nasal NO. No correlation was found between the magnitudes of changes in nasal NO and the changes in nasal volume. Topical application of xylomethazoline resulted in increased nasal cavity volume and reduced NO output. In contrast to previous published reports, a technique using high flow rate insufflation demonstrated an abscence of correlation between the magnitudes of changes in nasal NO and nasal cavity volume brought about by decongestant, saline, or posture.
Cigarette smoking as a triggering factor of hidradenitis suppurativa.	Hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic inflammatory skin disease involving the axillary, inguinal and anogenital regions and sometimes, in addition, the submammary or sacral areas. The etiology of this condition is unknown.
Knowledge of HIV serostatus and preventive behaviour among European injecting drug users: second study. European Community Study Group on HIV in Injecting Drug Users.	The objective of the study was to analyse the effect of knowledge of HIV serostatus on behaviours preventing the acquisition or transmission of HIV among European IDU, and to compare results with a previous similar study conducted 3 years before. Data were gathered in 1992-1993 during a retrospective multicentre cross-sectional study of IDU recruited in 11 European countries, in specialized centers and on the street. We compared, between groups with different HIV serological status (IDU who knew well before their HIV-positive serological status, IDU who knew their HIV-negative serostatus and IDU who did not know before their serological status), the respective proportions of IDU who reported that, during the six months prior to interview, (1) always used condoms, (2) never gave their used injecting equipment to other IDU, (3) always injected drugs safely. We only included IDU who had known their serological status for at least six months prior to interview. Results were compared to the similar survey conducted in 1990. From 2171 IDU recruited, data of 1334 IDU were included in the analysis. Compared with IDU who did not know their HIV serostatus, only IDU knowing their HIV-positive serostatus used condoms significantly more often (37% compared to 15%, rate ratio (RR): 2.4; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.8-2.3) and never gave their used injecting equipment to other IDU (69% compared to 53%, RR: 1.3; 95% CI: 1.2-1.4). In comparison with the 1990 study, only condom use significantly improved and only for IDU who knew their HIV-negative serostatus (13% compared to 9%, RR: 1.6; 95% CI: 1.1-2.3). This study confirms among European IDU the relation between knowing own HIV serological status to preventive behaviours. However, there were only minor improvements between 1990 and 1992-1993, indicating that prevention of HIV transmission among IDU must be reinforced.
Hepatitis C virus infection in four haemodialysis units of southern Italy: epidemiological report.	The haemodialysis patients are an high risk population for hepatitis viral infections. While the incidence of HBV has decreased worldwide, HCV is now the major cause of viral infection in these patients. The aim of our study was to define a complete map of patients undergoing routine replacement therapy by haemodialysis in the province of Foggia, Southern Italy, who were HCV Ab positive, the presence of viraemia and their genotypes; moreover, we investigated the probable factors involved in determining the infection as well as the means of prevention.
Tuberculosis in Lebanese jails: prevalence and risk factors.	A survey was conducted in 1995 to assess the prevalence of TB infection using the PPD skin test infection among 3931 inmates in all 21 jails in Lebanon. Forty-five percent of participants had a positive PPD skin test. The likelihood of testing positive was higher among men versus women, and among those who had been incarcerated for more than 3 years versus less than that. Compared to prisoners whose usual residence was Central Lebanon, those from North Lebanon and those from outside Lebanon (mostly Syria and Egypt) had a higher risk for PPD positivity, those from Bekaa a lower risk, and those from South Lebanon about the same risk. Among those with positive PPD tests, 7% had abnormal chest X-rays suggestive of active infection. Results suggest that TB infection is an important health problem in correctional facilities in Lebanon and that special control programs should target North Lebanon. The importance of screening the incarcerated population with chest X-rays rather than PPD skin tests is discussed.
Intestinal parasite carriage in workers exposed to sewage.	The presence of protozoan cysts and helminth eggs in sewage and the very low minimal infective doses of parasites suggest an occupational risk for workers exposed to sewage. The objective of this study was to assess this risk in a group of raw sewage-exposed workers. The relationship between sewage exposure and intestinal parasite carriage was estimated by a multiple cross-sectional survey comparing yearly prevalence rates in 126 employees working in sewers in Paris, France, with the prevalence rate in 363 food-handlers employed between 1988 and 1993. The incidence of intestinal parasitic infestation was estimated among sewage-exposed workers. Four parasite species were identified among sewage-exposed workers: whipworm, Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba coli and Endolimax nanus. The prevalence mean of intestinal parasite carriage was 11.8% (57/480), related to the presence of protozoa in 91% of samples. G. lamblia was present in 3.5% (17/480) of samples. The incidence of positive parasitological stool examination was 5.9/100 person-years. The incidence of G. lamblia in stool examinations was 1.7/100 person-years. Age-adjusted odds ratios were significantly higher in exposed workers in 1988 (OR: 6.5; 95% CI: 2.0-14.5), 1990 (OR: 4.4; 95% CI: 1.2-10.1) and 1991 (OR: 3.4; 95% CI: 1.0-8.2), but not during the other three years. The results of this study emphasize an occupational risk of intestinal protozoan infestation in workers exposed to sewage. The decrease of adjusted OR with time reflects the efficacy of compliance with rules of hygiene.
Epidemiology of blood collection in France.	The objectives of the cross-sectional study (EpiCoS) were to describe, at different stages, volunteers offering their blood, and to characterize various ways of collecting blood. From 15 September 1996 to 31 December 1996, individuals presenting at fixed or mobile sessions in one of 11 randomly selected blood banks were included after they had a medical examination. Variables studied were relative to type of collection, individuals, medical examination, patterns of blood letting, use of collected donations and if unused, reasons for discarding. Sixty four thousand and ninety two volunteers, aged 17-66 years old were included. The proportion of exclusion during medical examination was 10.8% (95% confidence interval (CI): 10.6-11.0%). Exclusions were more frequent among new volunteers and were mostly related to the safety of recipients. Most of the 57,003 donations were whole blood (94.0%) and collected in mobile sessions (89.9%). Five percent of collected donations were discarded; 3.5% (95% CI: 3.4-3.7%) of donations discarded for biological abnormalities, including 1.5% only for initial screen reactions to infectious disease markers (HBs antigen, anti-HBc antibodies, anti-HCV antibodies, anti-HIV antibodies, anti-HTLV antibodies, malaria antibodies and anti-syphilitic antibodies). The most frequent biological abnormality was a high alanine aminotransferase level. A follow-up of these indicators, within the French haemovigilance system, should allow further identification of risk factors and high-risk contexts, and planning means of optimizing blood collection in France.
Non-responders to a postal questionnaire on respiratory symptoms and diseases.	Only few data have been published about non-responders in epidemiological studies on respiratory diseases. The aim of this study was to examine the characteristics of the non-responders and the reasons for non-response in a survey of respiratory health. All 9132 subjects, born 1925-1926, 1940-1941, 1955-1956 and 1970-1971 and living in eight representative areas in Norrbotten, Sweden, were invited to a prevalence study on asthma, chronic bronchitis and respiratory symptoms. The response rate was 85%. A sample of the non-responders from the cross-sectional postal questionnaire study was contacted by telephone and interviewed using the same questionnaire as had been used in the postal survey. Of the 1397 non-responders a stratified sample of 182 subjects were selected for this study and 144 agreed to participate. The response rate was increasing by increasing age. The main reason for non-response was that the subjects had forgotten to mail the questionnaire, lack of interest or lack of time. There were significantly higher proportions of current smokers and manual workers among the non-responders. The prevalence rates of wheezing, long-standing cough, sputum production, attacks of breathlessness, asthma and use of asthma medicines were significantly higher among the non-responders compared with the responders according both univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses, in which the influences of age, sex, smoking habits, socioeconomic group and area of domicile were taken into account. The prevalence of respiratory symptoms and diseases was slightly underestimated in the postal survey.
Regional drug information service.	Drug information centers (DICs) were established in Europe more than two decades ago. The majority of German DICs were created in the 90s. The regional University hospital-based DIC, which offers services to physicans, is now in operation for three and a half years .
Quality of life in nasal polyposis.	Nasal polyposis (NP) is a frequent inflammatory chronic disease of the upper respiratory tract, which may impair quality of life (QOL). The NP impact, which is frequently associated with lower respiratory disorders, has never before been studied.
Properties of the geometrically averaged ratio, an alternative standardized measure.	In epidemiology, the comparative mortality figure and the standardized mortality ratio are standardized measures in common use. Both are weighted averages of rate ratios (or observed/expected death count ratios) on the arithmetic scale. I propose a new standardized measure, the geometrically averaged ratio (GAR), which is defined through simple averaging on the logarithmic scale. I show that, in addition to providing a valid comparison between populations, the geometrically averaged ratio possesses the following desirable properties: (1) invertibility and invariance of standardized sex ratios and (2) interpopulational comparability with different standards.
Neighbourhood characteristics and use of benzodiazepines in The Netherlands.	This paper analyses the relationship between individual and neighbourhood characteristics and the use of benzodiazepines within a Dutch city. It is hypothesized that the proportion of users is lower in more socially integrated and less deprived neighbourhoods. Hypotheses have been tested by using multi-level analysis to distinguish between composition and context effects. Age and gender have a clear relation to the use of benzodiazepines and neighbourhood differences in the proportion of users are partly the effect of population composition by age and gender. The proportion of users is higher in neighbourhoods with a higher percentage of one-parent families, with a lower percentage of social rented housing and with a larger number of rooms per person. The strength of the relation between age and use is influenced by neighbourhood characteristics. Neighbourhood variation in the amount used only depends on population composition.
The health impact of smoking in manual and non-manual social class men and women: a test of the Blaxter hypothesis.	Blaxter has hypothesized that harmful behavioral habits like smoking have a greater impact on health in the non-manual than in the manual social classes, possibly because other adverse exposures have a more important role in the manual social classes. However, the outcome measure used was a composite measure of physiological indices of morbidity and the relevance of this to other health problems is uncertain. We have therefore investigated the effect of smoking on mortality, to test whether the risk of death associated with smoking differs between manual and non-manual social classes. Data on 6831 men and 7993 women, aged 45-64 when screened in the Renfrew and Paisley study, a large prospective observational study in the West of Scotland, have been analyzed. All cause mortality rate ratios for smokers compared with never smokers have been calculated within manual and non-manual social classes. Although the age adjusted rate ratios are slightly higher among the non-manual men and women (2.19 [1.83-2.61] versus 1.92 [1.71-2.17] for non-manual and manual men respectively, and 1.75 [1.54-1.99] versus 1.65 [1.50-1.82] for non-manual and manual women), this difference between social classes is not statistically significant (p-values for test of difference 0.26 and 0.47 for men and women respectively). When additionally adjusted for other risk factors, cardiorespiratory symptoms and deprivation, this picture remained the same (p-values for test of difference are 0.41 and 0.50 for men and women respectively). Similar results were found when the cohort was divided by deprivation categories rather than social classes or when smoking related mortality rather than mortality from all causes was used as the outcome measure. We therefore conclude that the health impact of smoking is similar in each socio-economic group. The relative health improvement consequent on smoking cessation is thus similar in different socio-economic groups.
Selecting diagnostic tests for ruling out or ruling in disease: the use of the Kullback-Leibler distance.	To select a proper diagnostic test, it is recommended that the most specific test be used to confirm (rule in) a diagnosis, and the most sensitive test be used to establish that a disease is unlikely (rule out). These rule-in and rule-out concepts can also be characterized by the likelihood ratio (LR). However, previous papers discussed only the case of binary tests and assumed test results already known.
Evidence of disordered symptom appraisal in fibromyalgia: increased rates of reported comorbidity and comorbidity severity.	Using a large series of unselected consecutive patients, to investigate whether patients with fibromyalgia differ from those with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or osteoarthritis (OA) in the number of reported comorbid conditions and in their perceived importance, and thereby to investigate differences in symptom appraisal and somatization.
Statistical aspects of genetic mapping in autopolyploids.	Many plant species of agriculture importance are polyploid, having more than two copies of each chromosome per cell. In this paper, we describe statistical methods for genetic map construction in autopolyploid species with particular reference to the use of molecular markers. The first step is to determine the dosage of each DNA fragment (electrophoretic band) from its segregation ratio. Fragments present in a single dose can be used to construct framework maps for individual chromosomes. Fragments present in multiple doses can often be used to link the single chromosome maps into homologous groups and provide additional ordering information. Marker phenotype probabilities were calculated for pairs of markers arranged in different configurations among the homologous chromosomes. These probabilities were used to compute a maximum likelihood estimator of the recombination fraction between pairs of markers. A likelihood ratio test for linkage of multidose markers was derived. The information provided by each configuration and power and sample size considerations are also discussed. A set of 294 RFLP markers scored on 90 plants of the species Saccharum spontaneum L. was used to illustrate the construction of an autopolyploid map. Previous studies conducted on the same data revealed that this species of sugar cane is an autooctaploid with 64 chromosomes arranged into eight homologous groups. The methodology described permitted consolidation of 54 linkage groups into ten homologous groups.
Study design and data analysis in clinical and environmental models of nephrotoxicity.	Protocols for clinical studies of nephrotoxicity may include several elements. They include background information, study objectives, study design, data handling and analysis, organization and administration, and methods and definitions. Response variables used to indicate the development of clinically apparent renal disease should be clearly defined. Susceptibility factors such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, obesity, smoking history, and genetic factors may influence the development of renal disease and other health outcomes. These factors may also affect the pattern of abnormal biomarkers that appear during the development of renal disease. Some individuals who are normal by standard clinical criteria will be in various stages of disease development and will have abnormal biomarker levels. With all approaches, an adequate baseline assessment of biomarker values is critically important. Consistent findings among studies reinforce conclusions.
Dose-response trend tests for tumorigenesis, adjusted for body weight.	Several studies have demonstrated a relationship between rodent body weight and tumor incidence for some tissue/organ sites. It is not uncommon for a chemical tested for carcinogenicity to also affect body weight. In such cases, comparisons of tumor incidence may be biased by body-weight differences across dose groups. A simple procedure was investigated for reducing this bias. This procedure divides the animals into a few groups based on body weight. Body weight at 12 months was used, before the appearance of a tumor was likely to affect body weight. Statistics for dose-response trend tests are calculated within body weight strata and pooled to obtain an overall dose-response trend test. This procedure is analogous to that currently used, of stratifying animals, based on their age at the time of removal from a study. Age stratification is used to account for differences in animal age across dose groups, which can affect comparisons of tumor incidence. Several examples were investigated where the high-dose group had reduced body weights and associated reductions in tumor incidence. When the data were analyzed by body-weight strata, some positive dose-response trends for tumor incidence were demonstrated. In one case, the weight-adjusted analysis indicated that a negative dose-response trend in tumor incidence was a real effect, in addition to a body weight reduction. These examples indicate that it is important to consider the effects of body weight changes as low as 10%, and perhaps below, that were caused by chemicals in 2-year bioassays for carcinogenesis. The simple procedure of analyzing tumor incidence within body-weight strata can reduce the bias introduced by weight differences across dose groups.
IV milrinone for cardiac output increase and maintenance: comparison in nonhyperdynamic SIRS/sepsis and congestive heart failure.	To characterize the effect of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor (PDEI) milrinone in adult patients with a non-hyperdynamic condition during the course of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) or sepsis when compared with patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). PDEIs are potent inhibitors of cytokine production and expression. We hypothesized that there might be an outstanding beneficial effect of PDEIs in the setting of SIRS/sepsis.
A locus for isolated cleft palate, located on human chromosome 2q32.	We present evidence for the existence of a novel chromosome 2q32 locus involved in the pathogenesis of isolated cleft palate. We have studied two unrelated patients with strikingly similar clinical features, in whom there are apparently balanced, de novo cytogenetic rearrangements involving the same region of chromosome 2q. Both children have cleft palate, facial dysmorphism, and mild learning disability. Their karyotypes were originally reported as 46, XX, t(2;7)(q33;p21) and 46, XX, t(2;11)(q33;p14). However, our molecular cytogenetic analyses localize both translocation breakpoints to a small region between markers D2S311 and D2S116. This suggests that the true location of these breakpoints is 2q32 rather than 2q33. To obtain independent support for the existence of a cleft-palate locus in 2q32, we performed a detailed statistical analysis for all cases in the human cytogenetics database of nonmosaic, single, contiguous autosomal deletions associated with orofacial clefting. This revealed 2q32 to be one of only three chromosomal regions in which haploinsufficiency is significantly associated with isolated cleft palate. In combination, our data provide strong evidence for the location at 2q32 of a gene that is critical to the development of the secondary palate. The close proximity of these two translocation breakpoints should also allow rapid progress toward the positional cloning of this cleft-palate gene.
Mechanical ventilation in a cohort of elderly patients admitted to an intensive care unit.	It has been argued that life support for the elderly should be limited to conserve resources. As this population increases, so will the importance of evaluating appropriate use of mechanical ventilation in this group.
Presentation and automatic treatment of evolutive data in medicine. Application to clinical pancreatic pathology]	In this paper we propose a method allowing the representation of time-dependent changes in symptomatology. In algorithm, which automatically generates the sequence of stable states in patient's symptomatology evolution, describes slow, as well as fast, variations of diseases. This sequential representation of data can then be analysed by classical statistical procedures in a population of patients suffering from pancreatic diseases, to estimate the rate of global modification of clinical symptomatology in time.
Basic principles of ROC analysis.	The limitations of diagnostic "accuracy" as a measure of decision performance require introduction of the concepts of the "sensitivity" and "specificity" of a diagnostic test. These measures and the related indices, "true positive fraction" and "false positive fraction," are more meaningful than "accuracy," yet do not provide a unique description of diagnostic performance because they depend on the arbitrary selection of a decision threshold. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is shown to be a simple yet complete empirical description of this decision threshold effect, indicating all possible combinations of the relative frequencies of the various kinds of correct and incorrect decisions. Practical experimental techniques for measuring ROC curves are described, and the issues of case selection and curve-fitting are discussed briefly. Possible generalizations of conventional ROC analysis to account for decision performance in complex diagnostic tasks are indicated. ROC analysis is shown to be related in a direct and natural way to cost/benefit analysis of diagnostic decision making. The concepts of "average diagnostic cost" and "average net benefit" are developed and used to identify the optimal compromise among various kinds of diagnostic error. Finally, the way in which ROC analysis can be employed to optimize diagnostic strategies is suggested.
General problems in medical decision making with comments on ROC analysis.	Medical decision-making studies continue to focus on two questions: How do physicians make decisions? How should physicians make decisions? Researchers pursuing the first question emphasize human cognitive processes and the programming of symbol systems to model observed human behavior. Those researchers concentrating on the second question assume that there is a standard of performance against which the physician's decisions can be judged, and to help the physician improve his performance, an array of tools is proposed. These tools include decision trees, Bayesian analysis, decision matrices, receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis, and cost-benefit considerations including utility measures. Medical decision-making questions must be answered in an ethical context where ethics and decision analysis are interviewed.
A simple correction for multiple comparisons in interval mapping genome scans.	Several approaches have been proposed to correct point-wise significance thresholds used in interval-mapping genome scans. A method for significance threshold correction based on the Bonferroni test is presented. This test involves calculating the effective number of independent comparisons performed in a genome scan from the variance of the eigenvalues of the observed marker correlation matrix. The more highly correlated the markers, the higher the variance of the eigenvalues and the lower the number of independent tests performed on a chromosome. This approach was evaluated by mapping 1000 normally distributed phenotypes along chromosomes of varying length and marker density in a population size of 500. Experiment-wise significance thresholds obtained from the simulation are compared to those calculated using the Bonferroni criterion and the newly developed measure of the effective number of independent tests in a genome scan. The Bonferroni calculation produced significance thresholds very similar to those obtained by simulation. The threshold levels for both Bonferroni and simulation analysis depended strongly on the marker density and size of chromosomes. There was a slight bias of about 1% in the thresholds obtained at the 5% and 10% point-wise significance levels. The method introduced here provides a relatively simple correction for multiple comparisons that can be easily calculated using standard statistics packages.
Conventional and predicted perceptibility curves for contrast-enhanced direct digital intraoral radiographs.	To construct Perceptibility Curves (PCs) for contrast-enhanced digital intraoral radiographs.
Coordinately regulated expression of FAT/CD36 and FACS1 in rat skeletal muscle.	Protein-mediated fatty acid uptake and intracellular fatty acid activation are key steps in fatty acid metabolism in muscle. We have examined (a) the abundance of fatty acid translocase (FAT/CD36) mRNA (a fatty acid transporter) and long-chain acyl CoA synthetase (FACS1) mRNA in metabolically heterogeneous muscles (soleus (SOL), red (RG) and white gastrocnemius (WG)), and (b) whether FAT/CD36 and FACS1 mRNAs were coordinately up-regulated in red (RTA) and white tibialis muscles (WTA) that had been chronically stimulated for varying periods of time (0.25, 1, 6 and 24 h/day) for 7 days. FAT/CD36 mRNA and FACS1 mRNA abundance were scaled with (a) the oxidative capacity of muscle (SOL > RG > WG) (p < 0.05), (b) the rates of fatty acid oxidation in red and white muscles, and (c) fatty acid uptake by sarcolemmal vesicles, derived from red and white muscles. In chronically stimulated muscles (RTA and WTA), FAT/CD36 mRNA and FACS1 mRNA were up-regulated in relation to the quantity of muscle contractile activity (p < 0.05). FAT/CD36 mRNA and FACS1 mRNA up-regulation was highly correlated (r = 0.98). The coordinated expression of FAT/CD36 and FACS is likely a functional adaptive response to facilitate a greater rate of fatty acid activation in response to a greater rate of fatty acid transport, either among different types of muscles or in muscles in which capacity for fatty acid metabolism has been enhanced.
Developing a behavior rating scale for comparing teachers' ratings of children with and without craniofacial anomalies.	Published psychometric tools are often insensitive to the experience of children with craniofacial anomalies (CFAs). The purposes of this study were to develop a valid and reliable assessment of behavior among children with and without CFAs and to compare teacher ratings of these two groups of children.
Children of the Philippines: attitudes toward visible physical impairment.	This pilot study was designed to evaluate children's attitudes and understanding of physical disabilities with special reference to those with craniofacial anomalies in the Philippines. Children with and without craniofacial anomalies were studied.
Associations between severity of clefting and maxillary growth in patients with unilateral cleft lip and palate treated with infant orthopedics.	The purpose of this study was to examine possible associations between severity of clefting in infants and maxillary growth in children with complete unilateral cleft lip and palate.
Cranial base growth and morphology in second-trimester normal human fetuses and fetuses with cleft lip.	The present radiographic study describes the size and shape of the cranial base from the sagittal aspect for a sample of 77 second-trimester "normal" control fetuses (n = 61) and fetuses (n = 16) exhibiting isolated, unilateral clefts of the lip (CL), ranging in fertilization age from 10 to 22 weeks.
Dentocraniofacial morphology of 12 Japanese subjects with unilateral cleft lip and palate with a severe Class III malocclusion: a cephalometric study at the pretreatment stage of surgical orthodontic treatment.	The present study clarifies the dentocraniofacial morphology of patients with cleft lip and palate (CLP) with severe Class III malocclusion prior to surgical orthodontic treatment.
Enhanced activity of osteoblast differentiation factor (PEBP2alphaA2/CBFa1) in affected sutural osteoblasts from patients with nonsyndromic craniosynostosis.	Nonsyndromic craniosynostosis is characterized by premature closure of one or more cranial sutures in infants. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate cellular and molecular events that lead to pathogenesis of nonsyndromic craniosynostosis.
Palatal development in Twirler mice.	The development of the secondary palate of Twirler (Tw) mice was characterized, and a quantitative coronal plane evaluation of the width and length of the craniofacial regions of homozygous mutant embryos was conducted.
The dental health and caries-related microflora in children with craniosynostosis.	To compare levels of dental caries, bacterial dental plaque, gingivitis, enamel defects, and caries-related microflora in children with and without craniosynostosis.
Statistical inference of sequence-dependent mutation rates.	Several lines of research are now converging towards an integrated understanding of mutational mechanisms and their evolutionary implications. Experimentally, crystal structures reveal the effect of sequence context on polymerase fidelity; large-scale sequencing projects generate vast amounts of sequence polymorphism data; and locus-specific databases are being constructed. Computationally, software and analytical tools have been developed to analyze mutational data, to identify mutational hot spots, and to compare the signatures of mutagenic agents.
Extreme endemic radiation of the Malagasy vangas (Aves: Passeriformes).	Phylogenetic relationships of the family Vangidae and representatives of several other passeriform families were inferred from 882 base positions of mitochondrial DNA sequences of 12S and 16S rRNA genes. Results indicated the monophyly of the Vangidae, which includes the genus Tylas, hitherto often placed in the family Pycnonotidae. Our results also revealed the Malagasy endemic Newtonia, a genus never previously assigned to the Vangidae, to be a member of this family. These results suggest the occurrence of an extensive in situ radiation of this family within Madagascar, and that the extant high diversity of this family is not the result of multiple colonizations from outside. The extremely high morphological and ecological diversification of the family seems to have been enhanced through the use and ultimate occupancy of vacant niches in this island.
High evolutionary rates in nuclear genes of squamates.	We compared nonsynonymous substitution rates (Ka) of nuclear coding genes between four major groups of living sauropsids (reptiles): birds, squamates, crocodiles, and turtles. Since only 9 orthologous genes are known in all the four taxonomic groups, we searched for orthologous genes known in chicken and at least one of any representative of poikilotherm sauropsids. Thus, we analyzed three additional data sets: 28 genes identified in chicken and various squamates, 24 genes identified in chicken and crocodilians, and 20 genes identified in chicken and turtles. To compare nonsynonymous substitution rates between all lineages of sauropsids, we used the relative-rate test with human genes as the outgroup. We show that 22/28 nuclear coding genes of squamates, especially snakes (15/16), have an higher evolutionary rate than those in chicken (in mean, 30-40% faster). However, no such difference is detected between crocodiles, turtles and chicken. Higher substitution rate in squamates nuclear coding genes than in chicken, and probably than in other sauropsids, could explain some of the difficulties in resolving the molecular phylogeny of reptiles.
Correlation analyses as a step to identify foods that are sources of inter-individual variability in nutrients; their use for the development of food based dietary guidelines.	Food Based Dietary Guidelines (FBDG), in order to be attainable, should take into account the cultural context of the population for which they are developed. They need to focus on foods that actually determine the intake of nutrients for which desirable changes have been identified. Inter-individual variability of nutrient intakes--a measure of the heterogeneity of intakes--is determined by the variability in the consumption of its food sources among the population. The foods that determine a high proportion of inter-individual variability in nutrient intake can be identified on the basis of data banks that describe food and nutrient intakes in the population. The experience accumulated to design Food Frequency Questionnaire through selection of key foods suggests that high quantitative contributors to a specific nutrient may not be important determinants of its intake. On the other hand, the Pearson correlation between the intake of each food source and the total nutrient intake allows quantification of the percentage of variability explained by each item and takes into account the possibility of correlations between different food sources. Once a key food is identified, several strategies are available to modify its intake in the population: through changes in the percentage of consumers/in the mean portion size/in the frequency of intake. The anticipated level of change can be predicted according to the strategy adopted.
DNA topoisomerase IIalpha expression correlates with cell proliferation but not with recurrence in intracranial meningiomas.	To assess the value of topoisomerase IIalpha (TopoIIalpha) as a novel proliferation-associated molecule, by correlating its immunohistochemical expression with Ki67 (MIB-1), cell proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and mitotic index in meningiomas. Furthermore, to investigate its relation to standard clinicopathological parameters and patients' outcome.
Correlation between the expression of DNA topoisomerases I and IIalpha and clinical parameters in kidney disease.	Multiple factors interact during the evolution of renal diseases. In the present study, we examined the expression of DNA topoisomerases type I and IIalpha, which reflect gene transcription and DNA replication, respectively. Enzyme content was assessed by immunohistochemistry using two specific monoclonal antibodies, C21 and Ki-S4, on 81 archival punch-biopsy specimens from patients with renal diseases, including minimal change disease (MCD; n = 10), focal segmental glomerular sclerosis (FSGS; n = 6), mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN; n = 11), membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN; n = 10), mesangial capillary glomerulonephritis (MCGN; n = 7), rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN; n = 12), lupus nephritis (LN; n = 15), and tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN; n = 10). Both enzymes were strongly expressed in diseases tending to rapid progression, notably RPGN and LN, whereas MCD and MGN showed low protein levels in both the glomerular and tubular compartments. Moreover, topoisomerase expression was significantly associated with the density of monocytogenic infiltrates (monitored by means of the monoclonal antibody Ki-M1p), such pathogenesis-associated factors as antinuclear antibodies and paranuclear antineutrophilic antibodies, and serum immunoglobulin levels. There also was a positive correlation with serum creatinine levels and an inverse association with proteinuria and nephrotic syndrome. We conclude that the expression of DNA topoisomerases may be linked to pathogenetic mechanisms and may provide prognostic information. Because of their comparatively low nephrotoxicity, topoisomerase inhibitors might prove to be useful therapeutic agents in the treatment of renal diseases.
A clinical study to compare the efficacy of 2 electric toothbrushes in plaque removal.	To compare the cleaning efficacy of a powered toothbrush with 3-dimensional brush head action (Braun Oral-B 3D Plaque Remover D15) and a high-speed "microtation" brush with an additional "microbrush-clip" (Rowenta Dentasonic MH921S).
Absence of a specific subgingival microflora in adults with Down's syndrome.	Periodontal disease in Down's syndrome (DS) is generally characterized by a high degree of bone loss. Bone loss of 5 mm or more is observed in 70% of these subjects. Among DS subjects, considerable differences in disease progression occur. So far, no studies have been conducted in which specific properties of the subgingival microflora have been related to the condition observed.
The effectiveness of enamel matrix proteins used in combination with bovine porous bone mineral in the treatment of intrabony defects in humans.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of enamel matrix proteins (EMPs) used in combination with bovine porous bone mineral (BPBM), compared to open flap debridement (OFD) in the treatment of intrabony defects in humans.
The use of PVP-iodine as an adjunct to non-surgical treatment of chronic periodontitis.	The present study was performed to assess the effect of topically-applied PVP-iodine, used as an adjunct both during basic non-surgical therapy and at re-treatment during the long-term maintenance of patients with advanced periodontal disease.
Comparative investigations of the desensitising efficacy of a new dentifrice.	In two clinical trials of 8 weeks duration, the ability of a new dentifrice, containing potassium nitrate, stannous fluoride and sodium fluoride to reduce dentine hypersensitivity was compared with either a non-desensitising fluoride dentifrice or a commercially available desensitising dentifrice (Sensodyne F) to reduce dentine hypersensitivity.
The effect of polyvinyl pyrrolidone on the clinical activity of 0.09% and 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthrinses.	Previous studies have shown that polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP) added to a chlorhexidine rinse reduced extrinsic dental stain but at the expense of a reduction in plaque inhibitory activity. This effect appeared due to a reduction in the effective chlorhexidine dose to levels where dose response studies show plaque inhibition falls off rapidly. The aim of these 2 clinical studies was to determine if PVP could be added to chlorhexidine rinses to maintain efficacy and reduce staining.
Tooth substance loss resulting from mechanical, sonic and ultrasonic root instrumentation assessed by liquid scintillation.	This study investigated the loss of tooth substance (microg) by means of liquid scintillation in combination with profilometric and SEM analyses in order to evaluate the roughness and morphological changes of the root surface before and after instrumentation.
Effect of an enamel matrix protein derivative (Emdogain) on ex vivo dental plaque vitality.	A common clinical observation following surgical periodontal therapy with an enamel matrix derivative (Emdogain) is the improved healing of the soft tissues and the limited inflammation of the operated areas. These clinical observations are empirical and difficult to explain. One of the factors influencing the early wound healing might be a potential antimicrobial effect of Emdogain.
Tissue- and urokinase-type plasminogen activators and type 1 plasminogen activator inhibitor in melanomas and benign skin pigment neoplasms.	The content of urokinase- and tissue-type plasminogen activators and plasminogen activator inhibitor PAI-1 in the cytosol of primary and metastatic melanomas and benign skin pigment neoplasms was estimated by enzyme immunoassay. It was shown that local growth and invasion of melanomas are related to suppressed expression of tissue plasminogen activator. The content of urokinase plasminogen activator increases in patients with distant metastases and large thickness of the primary tumor.
Examining diagnostic tests: an evidence-based perspective.	Diagnosis is an important aspect of physical therapist practice. Selecting tests that will provide the most accurate information and evaluating the results appropriately are important clinical skills. Most of the discussion in physical therapy to date has centered on defining diagnosis, with considerably less attention paid to elucidating the diagnostic process. Determining the best diagnostic tests for use in clinical situations requires an ability to appraise evidence in the literature that describes the accuracy and interpretation of the results of testing. Important issues for judging studies of diagnostic tests are not widely disseminated or adhered to in the literature. Lack of awareness of these issues may lead to misinterpretation of the results. The application of evidence to clinical practice also requires an understanding of evidence and its use in decision making. The purpose of this article is to present an evidence-based perspective on the diagnostic process in physical therapy. Issues relevant to the appraisal of evidence regarding diagnostic tests and integration of the evidence into patient management are presented.
Salivary Streptococcus mutans and Lactobacillus sp levels in cardiac children.	This study assesses salivary conditions of 20 children with cardiac disease comparing with a control group of 15 healthy children. The results showed that there was no difference between the groups on salivary flow, buffer capacity and the level of Streptococcus mutans (Sm). The test group i.e., children with cardiac disease, showed a lower level of Lactobacillus sp. The association between the usage of antibiotics and the risk of developing caries, measuring the level of Streptococcus mutans and Lactobacillus sp., showed that children taking antibiotics frequently had a significant lower level of Lactobacillus sp (p<0.05) than healthy children. This association was not found on relation to the levels of Streptococcus mutans.
Evaluation of visual, explorer, and a laser device for detection of early occlusal caries.	Reliable early diagnosis represents the keystone in modern dental care. This study aimed at disclosing a correlation between length of experience by the dentist and accuracy of caries diagnosis, by traditional clinical technique, that included visual and explorer examination, and evaluating the accuracy of the DIAGNOdent laser device. Histological sections confirmed clinical data obtained. Results showed that a reverse relationship between length of experience and accuracy of caries diagnosis i.e. younger dentist could achieve more accurate diagnosis. Laser diagnosis was superior to clinical diagnosis, whether by vision or explorer. It is concluded that DIAGNOdent laser is a promising instrument that can represent a valuable contribution to the dental practice.
The diastemas in deciduous dentition: the relationship to the tooth size and the dental arches dimensions.	Tooth size and different arch parameters were studied for influence in the presence or absence of diastemas in the primary dentition. The size of teeth scarcely influences the presence or absence of diastemas, but the dental arch dimensions are closely connected with diastemas.
Correlation between oral parafunction and temporomandibular disorders and emotional status among saudi children.	Studies on association between temporomandibular disorders and oral parafunction in preschool children are few. The aim of the present study is to investigate the relationship between the subjective and objective signs and symptoms of temporomandibular disorders (TMD), oral parafunction and emotional status in preschool children. The study is based on a clinical examination and questionnaire. Five hundred and two Saudi children aged 3 to 7 years were examined for different signs and symptoms of TMD. In addition, the parents of the children were given a questionnaire to investigate the existence of oral parafunction and evaluate the emotional status of children. The results of the study showed significant association between attrition and temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain, muscle tenderness and restricted opening, (P Values were 0.008, 0.019, 0.037 respectively). Significant association was found between habit of grinding and pain, while eating or opening the mouth (P<0.012). Significant association was found between emotional status and multiple signs and symptoms of TMJ tenderness, TMJ pain and muscle tenderness (P<0.042). Significant association was found between emotional status and pain, while eating or opening of the mouth (P<0.048). Close to positive association was found between oral parafunction and jaw lock. The association between TMD and oral parafunction as well as emotional status should direct the attention of the dentist to the importance of considering the emotional status, oral parafunction and TMD when examining and formulating treatment plan for the child patient.
Seven-year stability of physical activity and musculoskeletal fitness in the Canadian population.	Knowledge of population patterns of physical activity levels and musculoskeletal fitness are important in the selection of appropriate target groups for public health interventions.
Validation of the Arizona Activity Frequency Questionnaire using doubly labeled water.	Physical activity questionnaires (PAQs) are considered the most cost-efficient method to estimate total energy expenditure (TEE) in epidemiological studies. However, relatively few PAQs have been validated using doubly labeled water (DLW) in women or in samples with diverse ethnic backgrounds. This study was conducted to validate the Arizona Activity Frequency Questionnaire (AAFQ) for estimation of TEE and physical activity energy expenditure (PAEE) over 1 month using DLW as a reference method.
Peak VO2 correction for fat-free mass estimated by anthropometry and DEXA.	Anthropometric (ANTHRO) and dual-energy x-ray absorptiometric (DEXA) estimates of total body and leg fat-free masses (FFM) were obtained in 77 randomly selected sedentary men and women, aged 20-80: intermethod limits of agreement and their clinical significance, as inferred from the differences on peak VO2 corrected for FFMANTHRO and FFMDEXA, were determined.
Prognostic significance of immuno-proteosome subunit expression in patients with renal-cell carcinoma: a preliminary study.	Our purpose was to elucidate the clinical roles of the "immuno-proteosome," which is involved in the accelerated pathway of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-restricted antigen presentation system, in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The relative expression of six proteosome subunits (existing subunits X, Y, and Z and immunoproteosome subunits LMP7, LMP2, and MECL1) in 54 RCCs was investigated using RT-PCR analysis and was compared with clinicopathological measures, including patient outcome. Expression of the LMP7 and LMP2 genes was significantly low in high-grade tumors, and that of the LMP7 and MECL1 genes was significantly low in high-stage tumors. Low levels of LMP7, LMP2, and MECL1 expression were strongly associated with shortened survival (LMP7: P = 0.0002, LMP2: P < 0.0001, MECL1: P < 0.0047). The levels of subunits X, Y, and Z had no significant correlation with those measures. These findings suggest that RCCs with low level of immuno-proteosome subunit expression have a disorder in their antigen-presentation system. As a consequence, they may escape from immune surveillance and worsen patient outcome.
Preservation of species abundance in marine death assemblages.	Fossil assemblages of skeletal material are thought to differ from their source live communities, particularly in relative abundance of species, owing to potential bias from postmortem transport and time-averaging of multiple generations. However, statistical meta-analysis of 85 marine molluscan data sets indicates that, although sensitive to sieve mesh-size and environment, time-averaged death assemblages retain a strong signal of species' original rank orders. Naturally accumulated death assemblages thus provide a reliable means of acquiring the abundance data that are key to a new generation of paleobiologic and macroecologic questions and to extending ecological time-series via sedimentary cores.
Caries prediction factors in children with primary dentition.	Previous studies have indicated an association between the dmft and the lactobacilli counts in small children. This study evaluated and compared a number of salivary factors that could have an effect on caries progression in two groups of children with primary dentition (group 1 = 3-6 years; group II = 9 years). The average dmft score was higher for group II. The dmft score of group I consisted mainly of a large dt component, while in group II a large ft component was found. Lactobacilli were present in 44.83% of group I and in 77.27% of group II. Significant positive correlations were found for group I between the dt component of the dmft and lactobacilli count (P < 0.05, r = 0.48) as well as the total dmft and lactobacilli count (P < 0.05, r = 0.45). Significant positive correlations were found for group II between the dmft and lactobacilli count (P < 0.05, r = 0.39) and the plaque index and lactobacilli count (P < 0.05, r = 0.31). Significant correlations between the dmft and the prevalence of lactobacilli in the oral cavity were also indicated (group I: P < 0.05, r = 0.45; group II: P < 0.05, r = 0.36). Significant correlations confirmed the association of lactobacilli with the caries process and indicated the reliability of lactobacilli counts to determine caries activity. Correlations between the dmft and the prevalence of lactobacilli in the oral cavity indicated the possibility of an excellent but simple test for the prediction of caries susceptibility in children.
Alveolar ridge augmentation with rhBMP-2 and bone-to-implant contact in induced bone.	The objective of this study was to examine alveolar ridge augmentation following implantation of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein (rhBMP-2) with an allogeneic freeze-dried demineralized bone matrix (DBM) mixed with autologous blood. A second objective was to evaluate bone-to-implant contact in induced bone. Bilateral surgically created supraalveolar ridge defects in five young adult beagle dogs were implanted with the rhBMP-2-DBM-blood device. Transmucosal dental implants were placed at weeks 8 and 16 postsurgery The animals were euthanized 24 weeks following ridge augmentation. Healing was uneventful in all animals. Radiographic observations indicated substantial bone formation, including regions of radiolucency, at week 8. At week 16, the radiolucencies were generally resolved, and the trabecular structure of the induced bone resembled that of the adjacent residual bone. There were no remarkable differences in radiographic observations between weeks 16 and 24 after ridge augmentation. Histologic analysis revealed dense woven and lamellar induced bone. Any residual DBM appeared remineralized, at least in part. A large portion of the dental implants (approximately 70%) were housed in induced bone with evidence of limited crestal resorption. There was no significant difference in bone density between induced and residual bone, and the levels of bone-to-implant contact were similar (approximately 55%). The rhBMP-2 construct used in this study has a potential to augment alveolar ridge defects. Also, no difference in levels of osseointegration may be expected in induced and residual bone following a two-stage procedure of rhBMP-2-induced ridge augmentation and dental implant placement.
KL-6, surfactant protein A and D in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis.	KL-6, and surfactant protein A (SP-A) and surfactant protein D (SP-D) derived from alveolar type II cells and/or bronchiolar epithelial cells have been reported to be useful markers for interstitial lung diseases.
The erosive susceptibility of cervical versus occlusal enamel.	Clinical studies have strongly suggested a multifactorial aetiology for abfraction lesions or non-carious cervical tooth loss, with a contribution from erosive agents. Structural studies have shown that cervical enamel is more porous with a poorly developed crystal structure that may be more prone to erosion. The aim of this study was to examine the susceptibility to erosion of cervical and occlusal enamel from human premolar and molar teeth. Small blocks of cervical and cuspal enamel were immersed in either orange juice or Coca-Cola and the surface enamel loss was measured using profilometry. The enamel loss was essentially linear at a rate of 2.2-8.8 microns/hr. It was concluded that there was little difference in the susceptibility to erosion between cervical and cuspal enamel, even when the surface hypermineralised layer was removed.
Relative merits of narrow versus standard diameter light guides.	The purpose of this study was to assess the relative effectiveness of narrow versus standard diameter light guides at curing the initial increment of composite in a deep cavity. The micro-hardness of 2 mm thick samples of a light activated microfilled posterior composite was determined. Composite was irradiated at 0, 1 or 6 mm light guide tip/composite surface distances. Light intensity was measured with a computer-based radiometer. Lower surface cure was reduced with increasing light guide tip distances. Narrow diameter guides offered no advantage over standard guides for polymerisation of the initial increment of composite in the base of a cavity.
Dental fear in sexually abused women.	The aim of the present study was to investigate dental fear in women who have been exposed to different kinds of sexual abuse. In a cross-sectional questionnaire study, 99 sexually abused women were divided into three groups: one group who reported having been exposed to sexual touching (ST); one group who reported intercourse (IC); and one group who reported sexual abuse involving oral penetration (OP). The mean score on dental fear assessments was significantly higher for all groups than for Norwegian women in general. Women in the OP group scored significantly higher than women in other groups on dental fear. The majority of the women reported that they had experienced problems in relation to dental treatment situations. About half of the women in the OP group and one-third in the other groups reported that they had never considered that there was a relationship between the abuse and their problems with dental treatment situations. Significantly more women in the OP group reported that they had not been aware of the relationship, possibly because the abuse had been repressed. The majority of the women with extreme dental fear had never informed a dentist that they had been sexually abused.
A randomised prospective clinical trial into the effect of infant orthopaedics on maxillary arch dimensions in unilateral cleft lip and palate (Dutchcleft).	Aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of infant orthopaedics (IO) on maxillary dimensions in infants with unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP). The study design was a prospective two-arm randomised controlled trial in parallel with three participating academic Cleft Palate Centres. Treatment was assigned by means of a computerised balanced allocation method. One group (IO+) wore passive maxillary plates during the first year of life, the other group (IO-) did not. Maxillary casts, made at birth, and at 15, 24, 48, 78 wk were digitised three-dimensionally. Before lip closure alveolar, midpalatal and posterior cleft width reduced significantly more in IO(+) than in IO(-). After lip closure, the alveolar cleft width reduced significantly more in IO(-). Until soft palate closure the slope of the palatal vault flattened significantly by IO. It is concluded that IO only has a temporary effect on maxillary arch dimensions that does not last beyond surgical soft palate closure. Therefore, infant orthopaedics as a tool to improve maxillary arch form could be abandoned. However, other outcome variables like facial and dental appearance, speech outcome, and cost-effectiveness need to be investigated further in order to assess the comprehensive effect of infant orthopaedics.
Chewing efficiency of pre-orthognathic surgery patients: selection and breakage of food particles.	Comminution of food is the composite result of selection and breakage. Selection is characterised by the chance that a food particle will at least be damaged by the teeth during chewing. For any size, this chance equals the ratio between the weight of damaged or broken particles and that of all initial particles. The breakage process refers to fracturing of selected particles. The aim was to examine whether a reduced chewing performance of pre-orthognathic surgery patients is due to an impairment of selection, breakage or both. Eight cubes of 8.0 mm of the silicone-rubber Optosil " were used as a test food to determine chewing efficiency for 12 patients (skeletal Angle Class II and dental Angle Class II, subdivision 1) and 12 controls (class I molar relation). Selection and breakage were determined in one-chew experiments using various particle sizes. Chewing efficiency was significantly lower for the patients than for the controls. The selection chance was significantly smaller for the patients, in particular for smaller (< or = 4.8 mm) particles. The degree of breakage was lower for the patients, in particular for medium-sized particles of 4.8 mm. These findings suggest that the reduced chewing performance of pre-orthognathic surgery patients is due to an impairment of both selection and breakage.
Co-adhesion and removal of adhering bacteria from salivary pellicles by three different modes of brushing.	This study compares removal of pairs of co-adhering and non-co-adhering oral actinomyces and streptococci by hand, electric and sonic brushing from salivary pellicles. In addition, re-deposition of a co-adhering and non-co-adhering streptococcal strain to brushed pellicles was studied. First, actinomyces were allowed to adhere to a pellicle in a flow chamber, after which streptococci suspended in saliva were perfused through the chamber at 33 C. Pellicles with adhering bacterial pairs were brushed and the number of bacteria remaining determined. Whereas sonic brushing removed nearly all adhering bacteria, greater numbers of larger aggregates of the co-adhering pair, involving Streptococcus oralis J22, were left behind after hand and electric brushing than of the non-co-adhering pair with Streptococcus sanguis PK1889. Re-deposition of streptococci to electrically and sonically brushed pellicles, however, was two-fold higher for the co-adhering pair than for the non-co-adhering pair. This demonstrates a role for co-adhesion in de novo plaque formation. Removal by the three different modes of brushing was not affected by the presence of fluoride, indicating that fluoride is not able to disrupt calcium bridges between co-adhering pairs. In contrast, in the presence of lactose only small aggregates of co-adhering pair were left behind.
Effects of phosphoric acid and glutaraldehyde-HEMA on dentin collagen.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of phosphoric acid (PA) and a proprietary glutaraldehyde-HEMA aqueous solution (Gluma Desensitizer; GD) on dentin collagen. Specimens of demineralized bovine dentin collagen were treated with either 37% or 50% PA for 1 or 5 min. An additional set of specimens was treated with 37% PA for 1 min followed by GD for 1 min. All specimens were washed with distilled water, lyophilized. reduced with standardized NaB3H4, hydrolyzed with 6 M HCl and subjected to amino acid and cross-link analyses. The results demonstrated that the treatment of demineralized dentin with PA under the conditions tested did not significantly alter the collagen cross-links. The GD-treated samples showed reduction of free lysine (Lys) and hydroxylysine (Hyl) residues, as well as a decrease in the levels of collagen reducible cross-links. In addition, unidentified reducible compounds were detected by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. These compounds may be derived from cross-links formed between GD-derived aldehyde and Lys/Hyl of collagen. The findings indicate that PA treatment does not significantly affect dentin collagen amino acid and cross-link composition, and that GD treatment affects dentin collagen amino acid and cross-link composition.
Levels of ochratoxin A in blood from Norwegian and Swedish blood donors and their possible correlation with food consumption.	Blood levels of ochratoxin A were determined in 406 Scandinavian blood donors (206 from Oslo, Norway, and 200 from Visby on the island of Gotland, Sweden), using an HPLC method. In connection with the blood collection, the subjects were asked to fill in a food questionnaire to obtain individual dietary information relevant to ochratoxin A exposure. The mean plasma level of ochratoxin A was 0.18 ng/ml in Oslo and slightly higher, 0.21 ng/ml (P=0.046) in Visby. There was no correlation between plasma levels of ochratoxin A and the estimated total dietary intake of ochratoxin A based on consumption data and levels in food (retrieved from the literature), neither was the plasma level of ochratoxin A correlated with the total amount of food consumed. However, consumption of several foods, including cereal products, wine, beer and pork, were to some minor degree related to high plasma levels of ochratoxin A. The strongest correlations (correlation coefficient r>0.4; P<0.001) were observed for women in relation to the consumption of beer or medium brown bread. Correlation analysis of combinations of two or more food categories did not result in any statistically significant correlation.
Thyroid function tests, serum lipids and gender interrelations in a middle-aged population.	To study the value of screening for thyroid function in a screening program for hyperlipidaemia.
Distributed motor pattern underlying whole-body shortening in the medicinal leech.	Whole-body shortening was studied in the leech, Hirudo medicinalis, by a combination of videomicroscopy and multielectrode recordings. Video microscopy was used to monitor the animal behavior and muscle contraction. Eight suction pipettes were used to obtain simultaneous electrical recordings from fine roots emerging from ganglia. This vital escape reaction was rather reproducible. The coefficient of variation of the animal contraction during whole-body shortening was between 0.2 and 0.3. The great majority of all leech longitudinal motoneurons were activated during this escape reaction, in particular motoneurons 3, 4, 5, 8, 107, 108, and L. The firing pattern of all these motoneurons was poorly reproducible from trial to trial, and the coefficient of variation of their firing varied between 0.3 and 1.5 for different motoneurons. The electrical activity of pairs of coactivated motoneurons did not show any sign of correlation over a time window of 100 ms. Only the left and right motoneurons L in the same ganglion had a correlated firing pattern, resulting from their strong electrical coupling. As a consequence of the low correlation between coactivated motoneurons, the global electrical activity during whole-body shortening became reproducible with a coefficient of variation below 0.3 during maximal contraction. These results indicate that whole-body shortening is mediated by the coactivation of a large fraction of all leech motoneurons, i.e., it is a distributed process, and that coactivated motoneurons exhibit a significant statistical independence. Probably due to this statistical independence this vital escape reaction is smooth and reproducible.
Spontaneous activity in developing ferret visual cortex in vivo.	Multi-electrode extracellular recordings in area 17 of awake behaving ferrets were conducted to characterize the pattern of spontaneous activity in the developing visual cortex before eye opening. A linear array of 16 microwire electrodes was used to record extracellular neuronal activity across a 3.2 mm strip of visual cortex between postnatal days 22 and 28. Whereas synchronous bursts of activity were observed at all recording sites, cross-correlation analysis revealed that the timing of spike activity at all electrodes was not precisely correlated. Correlated activity between cortical sites exhibited a patchy organization having long-range components. Long-range correlated activity was observed between cortical patches that were separated by a mean distance of 1 mm. The spatial pattern of correlated activity persisted during transient lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) activity block, indicating that long-range correlated activity is generated by intrinsic circuits within the cortex, independent of LGN input activity. These results demonstrate an innate patchy organization of correlated spontaneous activity within the cortex during the early development of cortical functional and anatomical organization.
Immunohistochemical study of vestibular gingival blood vessel density and internal circumference in smokers and non-smokers.	This study was undertaken to determine: 1) if sections stained with monoclonal antibody to CD34 can be used for measurement of gingival blood vessel density and circumference and 2) if long-term smoking affects either of these 2 parameters.
Non-redundant roles for interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta in regulating human IgG2.	Serum concentrations of immunoglobulin G2 (IgG2) are elevated in localized aggressive periodontitis (LAgP) patients, and secretory products of monocytes from LAgP patients enhance IgG2 responses of lymphocytes from healthy subjects. Furthermore, genes regulating production of interleukin (IL)-1 influence the risk for both aggressive periodontitis (AgP) and chronic periodontitis. These observations, and the fact that IgG2 dominates responses to carbohydrates from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis, prompted the hypothesis that IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-RA may help regulate human IgG2 responses.
Phagocytosis of fibronectin and collagens type I, III, and V by human gingival and periodontal ligament fibroblasts in vitro.	Electron microscopic studies have suggested that the volume density of collagen-containing vacuoles in fibroblasts is higher in the periodontal ligament (PDL) than in the gingiva. Whether this difference reflects intrinsic differences in phagocytic capacity among the cells in these tissues is not known.
Alveolar bone resorption following coronal versus apical approach in a mucoperiosteal flap surgery procedure in the rat mandible.	In several publications, we have reported that a distinct resorptive phase of alveolar bone developed during 3 weeks following elevation of a mucoperiosteal flap in rats by a coronal surgical approach. In the present study, we compared the alveolar bone loss after mucoperiosteal flap surgery by a coronal approach (COR) to a surgical approach incising the mucosa close to the tooth apices and separating the mucoperiosteum toward the tooth crown (apical approach, AP).
Influence of the size of the microgap on crestal bone changes around titanium implants. A histometric evaluation of unloaded non-submerged implants in the canine mandible.	Endosseous implants can be placed according to a non-submerged or submerged approach and in 1- or 2-piece configurations. Recently, it was shown that peri-implant crestal bone changes differ significantly under such conditions and are dependent on a rough/smooth implant border in 1-piece implants and on the location of an interface (microgap) between the implant and abutment/restoration in 2-piece configurations. Several factors may influence the resultant level of the crestal bone under these conditions, including movements between implant components and the size of the microgap (interface) between the implant and abutment. However, no data are available on the impact of possible movements between these components or the impact of the size of the microgap (interface). The purpose of this study was to histometrically evaluate crestal bone changes around unloaded, 2-piece non-submerged titanium implants with 3 different microgap (interface) dimensions and between implants with components welded together or held together by a transocclusal screw.
A multi-center study comparing dual acid-etched and machined-surfaced implants in various bone qualities.	A major reason for the success of modern dental implant systems has been the development of implant designs that enhance direct bone-implant interface. Surface roughness has been a factor in this success and different systems have utilized very different implant surface roughness. The major purpose of this study was to evaluate 2 similar implants with different surface roughness characteristics.
The effect of an immunosuppressive therapy and its withdrawal on bone healing around titanium implants. A histometric study in rabbits.	Immunosuppressive agents have been recognized as a factor affecting bone metabolism. We investigated the consequences of the administration and withdrawal of cyclosporin A/nifedipine on bone around titanium implants to observe whether these changes occur and if they are reversible.
Is collagen breakdown during periodontitis linked to inflammatory cells and expression of matrix metalloproteinases and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases in human gingival tissue?	Evidence of the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) produced by resident and inflammatory cells in periodontal destruction is now well established. The purpose of this study was to quantify, in healthy and diseased upper gingival connective tissue, the area fraction (AA%) occupied by collagen fibers, the cell number belonging to inflammatory cell subsets, and the amounts of MMPs and TIMPs (tissue inhibitors of MMPs) in order to investigate the possible correlations, if any, between such molecules, collagen loss, and inflammatory cell subsets.
Mechanisms of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans-induced expression of interleukin-8 in gingival epithelial cells.	Gingival epithelial cells (GEC) are the first cells of the periodontium to encounter known periodontal pathogens, such as Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans (A.a.) and, therefore, the role of this pathogen in the initiation of the inflammatory response is critical. However, little is known about the interactions of A.a. with GEC. In the present study, the mechanisms by which extracts from A.a. induced expression of the chemotactic cytokine interleukin-8 (IL-8) in GEC, in vitro, were examined.
Subperiosteal and intraosseous connective tissue grafts for pocket reduction: a 9- to 13-year retrospective case series report.	Recent histological evidence has documented that grafted palatal connective tissue is capable of forming a new attachment to previously exposed roots in the treatment of gingival recession. No clinical studies have tested the ability of connective tissue that has been implanted beneath the periosteum into periodontal osseous defects to reduce probing depth and increase clinical attachment levels. This study reports the long-term clinical effect of subperiosteal and intraosseous connective tissue grafts on deep periodontal pockets.
Clinical comparison of microporous biocompatible composite of PMMA, PHEMA and calcium hydroxide grafts and expanded polytetrafluoroethylene barrier membranes in human mandibular molar Class II furcations. A case series.	Class II furcations present difficult treatment problems. Several treatment approaches to obtain furcation fill have been used with varying success.
Inverse correlation between macrophage-colony stimulating factor, cholesterol and high density lipoprotein cholesterol in Kawasaki disease.	Kawasaki disease (KD) is a childhood-onset vascular disease. We assessed the concentrations of macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) and those of lipids in sera from patients with KD. The M-CSF concentration in patients with acute-phase KD was 2,914+/-159 U/ml, significantly higher than that in control subjects with Infectious diseases (1,241+/-96 U/ml). The elevated levels of this cytokine in the acute phase fell to 1,319+/-138 U/ml in the convalescent phase. Total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations in acute phase KD (113.8+/-8.4 and 21.5+/-2.3 mg/dl, respectively) were lower than in the infectious disease controls (195.8+/-7.0 and 62.5+/-1.8 mg/dl). The elevation of M-CSF correlated with the decrease of total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Overproduction of macrophage-colony stimulating factor activates macrophages and monocytes and may disturb the lipid metabolism. Both effects could contribute to vasculitis in KD.
The "differential diagnosis" for multiple diseases: comparison with the binary-truth state experiment in two empirical studies.	In practice readers must often choose between multiple diagnoses. For assessing reader accuracy in these settings. Obuchowski et al have proposed the "differential diagnosis" method, which derives all pairwise estimates of accuracy for the various diagnoses, along with summary measures of accuracy. The current study assessed the correspondence between the differential diagnosis method and conventional binary-truth state experiments.
The erosive effect of herbal tea on dental enamel.	The aim of this study was to determine whether conventional black tea and a herbal tea were capable of eroding dental enamel. A further aim was to investigate whether herbal tea of the type tested eroded dental hard tissues to a greater or lesser extent than conventional black tea.
The effect of luting media on the fracture resistance of a flame sprayed all-ceramic crown.	This in vitro study investigated the effect of selected luting media on the fracture resistance of a flame-sprayed all-ceramic crown.
Flexural creep deformation and recovery in dental composites.	Three different popular composite resin systems for dental restorative applications are microfilled, minifilled and midifilled types in which deformation under stress and recovery after stress removal may be strongly influenced by filler parameters and resin formulation. The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate these differences in selected composite resins.
Effect of exposure intensity and post-cure temperature storage on hardness of contemporary photo-activated composites.	The effect of variation in post-exposure storage temperature (18 vs. 37 degrees C) and light intensity (200 vs. 500mW/cm(2)) on micro-hardness of seven light-activated resin composite materials, cured with a Prismetics Mk II (Dentsply) light activation unit, were studied.
Automated graph-based analysis and correction of cortical volume topology.	The human cerebral cortex is topologically equivalent to a sheet and can be considered topologically spherical if it is closed at the brain stem. Low-level segmentation of magnetic resonance (MR) imagery typically produces cerebral volumes whose tessellations are not topologically spherical. We present a novel algorithm that analyzes and constrains the topology of a volumetric object. Graphs are formed that represent the connectivity of voxel segments in the foreground and background of the image. These graphs are analyzed and minimal corrections to the volume are made prior to tessellation. We apply the algorithm to a simple test object and to cerebral white matter masks generated by a low-level tissue identification sequence. We tessellate the resulting objects using the marching cubes algorithm and verify their topology by computing their Euler characteristics. A key benefit of the algorithm is that it localizes the change to a volume to the specific areas of its topological defects.
Nitric oxide synthase-1 is enriched in fast-twitch oxidative myofibers.	Nitric oxide synthase-1 (NOS-1) is found in high concentrations in skeletal muscles, where its synthesis product nitric oxide (NO) is reported to be involved in a number of processes, including the modulation of the oxidative metabolism of myofibers. Performing immunoblot analysis and quantification of formazan produced by its specific NADPH diaphorase activity, we found NOS-1 to be enriched in rat skeletal muscles with a high proportion of fast-twitch myofibers. Since these myofibers represent a metabolically heterogeneous subpopulation, we extended our investigation to the level of individual myofibers. Using serial sections we combined myosin heavy chain-based fiber-typing with quantitative succinate dehydrogenase histochemistry to determine three groups of fiber-types, comprising fast-oxidative, fast-glycolytic and slow-oxidative myofibers. Image analysis showed that NOS-1 diaphorase activity is significantly enriched in fast-oxidative myofibers compared with fast-glycolytic and slow-oxidative ones. In order to characterize potential biological effects of the fiber-type-specific enrichment of NOS-1, we performed cytochrome oxidase histochemistry in the presence of the NO donors NOC-9 and SNAP. Both NO donors reduced cytochrome oxidase activity in all myofibers investigated with almost identical semi-maximal inhibition rates, although fast-oxidative and slow-oxidative myofibers contained twice as much basal catalytic activity than fast-glycolytic ones. In summary, we suggest that the NOS-1/NO system of skeletal muscles exerts its biological role especially in fast-oxidative myofibers, since these myofibers express more NOS-1 than fast-glycolytic or slow-oxidative ones and also contain the highest concentrations of cytochrome oxidases as potential target molecules of NO.
Tutorial on risk-adjusted P-charts.	Several books are available that describe how to construct control charts. Unfortunately none of these books show how to adjust control charts for the severity of the patients' illness. Without such adjustments control charts not only loose face validity but could lead to wrong conclusions. In this article we provide a step-by-step guide regarding how to control for changes in patients' severity of illness across time periods. We illustrate the use of the approach in examining falls in nursing homes. A control chart was constructed to compare observed falls to the residents' risk of fall measured on admission. Analysis led to conclusions radically different from an unadjusted chart.
Remarks on the Arquès-Michel Code.	D. Arquès and C. Michel have discovered by statistical methods a set of 20 trinucleotides which has remarkable properties, allows to retrieve the reading frame 0 in protein coding genes sequences and may play a role in molecular evolution theory. We make some comments on this and show (giving an example) that it is possible, by using theoretical arguments, to find sets having similar properties.
Attitudes towards high achievers in sport: an adaptation of Feather's Tall Poppy Scale.	A sport-specific version of Feather et al.'s (1991) Tall Poppy Scale, the Sportsperson Attitude Scale, was correlated with measures of global self-esteem, deservingness, and aspects of perfectionism. Total Negative Attitude and Favour Fall were negatively correlated with estimates of how much high-profile sports performers deserved their present high position. while Favour Reward and global self-esteem were positively correlated with estimates of deservingness. All measures demonstrated adequate reliability. All three SPAS subscales were found to be significantly correlated with High Personal Standards (HPS), a measure of perfectionism with theoretical but undocumented relationships to tall poppy attitudes. Regression analyses revealed that HPS and deservingness were significant predictors of tall poppy attitudes. It was concluded that the Sportsperson Attitude Scale would benefit from further refinement, but that the current version possesses adequate integrity for use in studies of attitudes toward high achievers in sport.
Isokinetic strength related to jumping but not kicking performance of Australian footballers.	The relationships between lower limb strength and two Australian football (AF) skills were assessed for 19 sub-elite AF players. Knee extension (KE) and knee flexion (KF) strength were assessed using a Biodex isokinetic dynamometer at angular velocities of 60, 240 and 360 degrees/sec. The two AF skills evaluated were running vertical jump (VJ) and kicking performance (KP). VJ performance was defined as the maximal jump height measured with a Yardstick device. KP was gauged through video analysis, as the post-contact resultant ball velocity (BV) during maximal effort drop punt kicking. Strength was measured as the isokinetic peak torque (PT value. No significant correlations were detected between the isokinetic knee strength values and maximal kicking velocity. Low to moderate significant correlations (r = 0.55 - 0.69, p < 0.05) were detected between the isokinetic measures and VJ height. It may be inferred that additional strengthening of the knee musculature may enhance running VJ performance, but not necessarily kicking velocity for this group of sub-elite AF players.
Reproducibility of ventilation of thresholds in trained cyclists during ramp cycle exercise.	The reproducibility of peak cardiopulmonary exercise responses and the first (VT1) and second [VT2) ventilation thresholds was studied in sixteen endurance-trained male cyclists (mean +/- SD peak oxygen uptake [VO2 peak] = 63.3 +/- 7.1 ml x kg(-1) x min(-1)) during duplicate 30 W x min(-1) ramp cycling protocols. Expired gas sampled from a mixing chamber was analysed on-line and VT1 and VT2 were determined by computerised V-slope analysis and visually by two evaluators (test-retest reliability) and again by one of the evaluators 12 months later (intra-evaluator reliability) from 20-s-average respiratory data. The results demonstrated high intra-evaluator reliability (r = 0.91-0.97, P < 0.0001) for repeat determinations of VO2, work rate (WR) and heart rate (HR) at VT1 and VT2. No significant differences were observed between Tests 1 and 2 for any of the measured variables (P > 0.05). Test-retest intraclass reliability coefficients ranged from 0.86 to 0.98 (P < 0.0001) for VO2 peak, peak pulmonary ventilation (VE), carbon dioxide output (VCO2), HR and WR values, and measurements of VO2 and WR at VT2, and from 0.67 to 0.80 (P < 0.01) for measurements of VO2 and WR at VT1. The reliability of VT1 and VT2 was reduced when the thresholds were expressed as relative (%VO2 peak) (r = 0.67-0.70, P<0.01) rather than absolute (l x min(-1)) (r = 0.77-0.93, P<0.001) VO2 values. It was concluded that VO2 peak, peak VE, VCO2. HR and WR values, and VT2 are highly reproducible in trained cyclists using a 30 W x min(-1) ramp exercise function. However, determinations of VT1 are less reliable. Additionally, ventilation thresholds are more reliably described using absolute rather than relative VO2 values.
Lacustrine spatial distribution of landlocked Atlantic salmon populations assessed across generations by multilocus individual assignment and mixed-stock analyses.	The objective of this study was to assess the spatiotemporal distribution of four landlocked Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) populations during their sympatric feeding phase in lake St-Jean (Québec, Canada). A total of 1100 fish captured over a period of 25 years was genotyped at six microsatellite loci in order to assess the temporal stability of the relative proportion of each population in different lake sectors using both individual-based assignment and mixed-stock analysis. Estimates of relative proportions obtained from both methods were highly correlated. A nonrandom spatial distribution of populations was observed for each period and, despite the fact that the overall proportion of each population varied over time, the pattern of differential distribution remained generally stable over time. Furthermore, there were indications that the extent of horizontal spatial overlap among populations was negatively correlated with that of their genetic differentiation at both microsatellites and a major histocompatibility complex locus, and independent of the geographical distance between the rivers of origin. We discuss the hypothesis that the temporal stability of spatial distribution, the lack of an association between spatial partitioning and geographical distance between rivers of origin, and the apparent negative correlation between spatial overlap and genetic differentiation, reflect the outcome of selective pressures driving behavioural differences for spatial niche partitioning among populations.
Inverse correlation of thioredoxin expression with estrogen receptor- and p53-dependent tumor growth in breast cancer tissues.	Estrogen receptor (ER) and p53 are important transcription factors in the growth regulation of tumor cells in breast cancer. We reported previously that thioredoxin (TRX) regulates the DNA binding activities of ER and p53 in vitro. The expression of pS-2, a trefoil factor, is also correlated with that of ER. To clarify the regulation mechanism of tumor growth in breast cancer, here we investigated the expression of TRX, ER, pS-2, and p53 and the mitotic index (MI) in 147 breast cancer tissues using immunohistochemical analysis. Of 123 TRX+ cases, ER+ cases (n = 62) showed a higher pS-2 score and lower MI than did ER- cases (n = 61). Furthermore, p53- cases (no mutation in p53; n = 76) also showed a lower MI than did p53+ cases (n = 47). There was no significant correlation between pS-2 and ER, MI and ER, or p53 and MI in the TRX- group. Among the ER+ and p53- cases (ER+/p53- group; n = 61), MI was lower in the TRX+ group (n = 46) than in the TRX- group (n = 15). However, in all other groups (n = 86) with abnormalities in the immunohistochemical expression of either p53 or ER, there was no significant correlation between MI and TRX expression. In the TRX+ and ER +/p53- group (n = 46), histological grading was lower than that in all other groups (n = 101). These findings suggest that TRX expression is linked to the ER- and p53-dependent regulation of tumor growth in breast cancer. In addition, TRX expression in ER+ and p53 intact (wild-type p53+) groups may mean better prognosis than in other conditions.
Mortality from lung cancer among silicotic patients in Sardinia: an update study with 10 more years of follow up.	To evaluate the association between silica, silicosis and lung cancer, the mortality of 724 patients with silicosis, first diagnosed by standard chest x ray film between 1964 and 1970, has been analysed by a cohort study extended to 31 December 1997.
Functional variables associated with the clinical grade of dyspnoea in coal miners with pneumoconiosis and mild bronchial obstruction.	Dyspnoea is a common symptom in coal miners with pneumoconiosis. Among others, gas exchange disturbances due to airway obstruction or mismatch between ventilation and perfusion may be underlying mechanisms. The validation of dyspnoea by the degree of airway obstruction is controversial, because the extent of airway obstruction often does not correlate with the clinical grade of breathlessness.
Organisational downsizing and musculoskeletal problems in employees: a prospective study.	To study the association between organisational downsizing and subsequent musculoskeletal problems in employees and to determine the association with changes in psychosocial and behavioural risk factors.
High order statistics for image classification.	This paper addresses the problem of image classification using local information which is aggregated to provide global representation of different image classes. Local information is adaptively extracted from an image database using Independent Component Analysis (ICA) which provides a set of localized, oriented, and band-pass filters selective to independent features of the images. Local representation using ICA techniques has been previously investigated by several researchers. However, very little work has been done on further use of these representations to provide more complex and global description of images. In this paper, we present an algorithm which uses the energy of a minimal set of ICA filters to provide class-specific signatures which are shown to be strongly discriminant. Computer simulations are carried on two image databases, one consisting of five classes--referred to as categories--(buildings, rooms, mountains, forests and beaches) and one consisting of a set of 30 objects from multiple views for viewpoint invariant object recognition. The classification performance of the algorithm using both Independent and Principal Component Analyses are reported and discussed.
Maintenance of intact sediment box cores as laboratory mesocosms.	Mesocosms consisting of physically and biologically intact segments of natural communities are an ideal compromise between single species tests and ecosystem experiments in the assessment of sediment contamination. Therefore, large intact sediment cores, as mesocosms with naturally co-adapted communities, would allow sediment contamination to be assessed using the replicability and statistical power of laboratory techniques, while retaining much of the ecological realism of field studies. This study investigates the collection and maintenance of such cores, collected from an unimpacted site in Lake Erie. It demonstrates that box cores containing relatively undisturbed freshwater sediments can be brought back to the laboratory and maintained for up to 8 weeks with little change in the resident benthic fauna. Feeding the systems is not required, nor is it deleterious to the indigenous fauna.
Effects of vascular endothelial growth factor on osteoclast induction during tooth movement in mice.	For orthodontic tooth movement, remodeling of the alveolar bone is maintained by a repeated process of bone resorption and new bone formation, controlled, respectively, by osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Recently, we have found that recombinant human vascular endothelial growth factor (rhVEGF) acts as a macrophage colony-stimulating factor in osteoclast induction in osteopetrotic (op/op) mice. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether rhVEGF stimulates osteoclast differentiation during experimental tooth movement. Purified rhVEGF was injected once into the buccal gingival groove around the incisors. An experimental appliance with a helical loop was bonded onto the upper incisors, and an initial force of 1.0 g was applied for three days. The number of osteoclasts appearing in the periodontal ligament space on the pressure side of the alveolar bone was increased markedly. These results suggest that local administration of rhVEGF enhances the number of osteoclasts, and may increase the rate of orthodontic tooth movement.
Growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor I receptors in the temporomandibular joint of the rat.	While there are numerous investigations on hormonal control of long bone epiphyseal growth, corresponding knowledge is sparse concerning the condylar cartilage. We investigated the distribution of growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) receptors in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ), especially the condyle, and compared the findings with information of long bone epiphyseal plates. The localization of the receptors was examined in vivo by immunohistochemical methods in one- to 21-day-old rats. GH receptors were detected in various components of the TMJ, but not in the fibrous articular surface or in the cartilage layers of the condyle. IGF-I receptors were found in the fibrous articular surface of the condyle and particularly in the superior and posterosuperior regions of the condylar cartilage, the depth of the labeled cell layer increasing significantly with age. It is evident that the expression of GH and IGF-I receptors is area-specific in the TMJ. Early post-natal growth and development of the mandibular condylar cartilage seem to be IGF-I-dependent but not directly dependent on GH.
Reversal of compromised bonding to oxidized etched dentin.	The mechanism responsible for hydrogen-peroxide- or sodium-hypochlorite-induced reductions in dentin bond strength is unknown. This in vitro study tested the hypothesis that these oxidizing agents were responsible by attempting to reverse the effect with sodium ascorbate, a reducing agent. Human dentin was treated with these oxidants before or after being acid-etched and with or without post-treatment with sodium ascorbate. They were bonded with either Single Bond or Excite. Hydrogen peroxide reduced the bond strengths of both adhesives, while sodium hypochlorite produced reduction in adhesion of only Single Bond (p < 0.05). Following treatment with sodium ascorbate, reductions in bond strength were reversed. Transmission and scanning electron microscopy showed partial removal of the demineralized collagen matrix only by sodium hypochlorite. The observed compromised bond strengths cannot be attributed to incomplete deproteinization and may be related to changes in the redox potential of the bonding substrates.
A new approach to enhancement of bone formation by electrically polarized hydroxyapatite.	An electrical field may affect osteogenesis. Since we found that hydroxyapatite (HA) ceramics may be polarizable, we hypothesized that electrically polarized HA may foster production of new bone in vivo. Both polarized and non-polarized HA ceramics were inserted into the subperiosteum spaces at the parietal bone area of rats. After 2, 4, and 8 weeks, the implant sites were examined histologically. Morphometric analysis revealed that new bone formation was accelerated on the negatively charged surface of the polarized HA (N-surface) at 2 weeks. The newly formed bone approached maturation at 4 weeks and was thicker on the N-surface than in the controls. By 8 weeks, newly formed bone in the controls was almost the same as that on the N-surface. These findings suggest that polarized HA is biocompatible and that bone formation on the N-surface is enhanced in the early stage of bone healing.
Pressure-pain thresholds and MRI effusions in TMJ arthralgia.	It has been suggested that MRI-depicted effusions identify patients with TMJ arthralgia. The Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC) propose a pressure-pain threshold (PPT) of 1 pound for the identification of TMJ arthralgia. The hypotheses in this study were that: (1) there is no association between MRI-depicted effusions and TMJ arthralgia, and (2) a PPT of 1 pound does not discriminate between subjects with and those without arthralgia. Thirty females with TMJ disc displacement with reduction were divided into two groups based on the presence or absence of the self-report of TMJ pain. Bilateral TMJ PPTs and MRIs were obtained. Increasing palpation pressure from 1 to 3 pounds increased the sensitivity for identifying arthralgia from 22% to 100%, with a corresponding decrease in the specificity from 100% to 81%. The sensitivity and specificity of effusions for identifying arthralgia were 85% and 28%, respectively. These results suggest that the use of palpation pressures greater than 1 pound is a valid test for TMJ arthralgia. However, TMJ effusions lack adequate specificity for identifying TMJ arthralgia and were not associated with pain.
Similarity of phylogenetic trees as indicator of protein-protein interaction.	Deciphering the network of protein interactions that underlines cellular operations has become one of the main tasks of proteomics and computational biology. Recently, a set of bioinformatics approaches has emerged for the prediction of possible interactions by combining sequence and genomic information. Even though the initial results are very promising, the current methods are still far from perfect. We propose here a new way of discovering possible protein-protein interactions based on the comparison of the evolutionary distances between the sequences of the associated protein families, an idea based on previous observations of correspondence between the phylogenetic trees of associated proteins in systems such as ligands and receptors. Here, we extend the approach to different test sets, including the statistical evaluation of their capacity to predict protein interactions. To demonstrate the possibilities of the system to perform large-scale predictions of interactions, we present the application to a collection of more than 67 000 pairs of E.coli proteins, of which 2742 are predicted to correspond to interacting proteins.
A cross-section of the fitness landscape of dihydrofolate reductase.	In vitro molecular evolution is regarded as a hill-climbing on a fitness landscape in sequence space, where the 'fitness' is a quantitative measure of a certain physicochemical property of a biopolymer. We analyzed a 'cross-section' of the enzymatic activity landscape of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) by using a method of analysis of a fitness landscape. We limited the sequence space of interest to the five-dimensional sequence space, where the coordinate corresponds to the 1st, 16th, 20th, 42nd and 92nd site in the DHFR sequence. Thirty six mutants mapped into the limited sequence space were taken in the analysis. As a result, the cross-section is of the rough Mt Fuji type based on the mutational additivity. The ratio of the mean slope to the roughness is 2.8 and the Z-score of the original ratio against a distribution of random references is 7.0, which indicates a large statistical significance. The existence of such a cross-section was discussed in terms of the occurrence probability of sets of five sites distantly separated from each other on the DHFR 3D structure. Our results support the effectiveness of the evolution strategy which exploits the accumulation of advantageous single point mutations in such a cross-section.
Prediction of ice skating performance with off-ice testing in women's ice hockey players.	Off-ice predictors of skating performance have not been investigated for women's hockey players. The purpose of this study was to identify the off-ice variables associated with high-performance skating acceleration, speed, agility, and on-ice anaerobic capacity and power in women's ice hockey players. Sixty-one women's ice hockey players between the ages of 8 and 16 years (x age = 12.18 +/- 2.05 years, x playing experience = 4.68 +/- 2.69 years) participated in the study. Subjects were 1-4 months postseason. Some players were continuing to play once per week during the off-season. Skating tests (ST) included (a) 6.10-m acceleration, (b) 47.85-m speed, (c) agility cornering S turn, and (d) modified repeat skate test (MRS). Two trials of each ST were measured with a photoelectric timing system (except MRS, which was measured with 1 trial). The off-ice variables that were evaluated included age, years of playing experience, height, body mass, predicted fat percentage, sit-and-reach flexibility, vertical jump height, 40-yd dash time, and 1-minute timed sit-ups and push-ups. The results of this study show that 40-yd dash time is the strongest predictor of skating speed in women's hockey players ages 8-16 years old. From the regression procedure the best prediction equation was speed = 4.913 - (0.0107 x kilograms) + (0.4356 x 40-yd dash time).
Predicting sprint kinematic parameters from anaerobic field tests in physical education students.	The relations among kinematic parameters measured during the first 10 seconds of 100-m sprint and anaerobic tests were studied in 22 male physical education students. During the first 10 seconds of the sprint, the position of the runners was "continuously" measured with a laser telemeter. Maximal acceleration (Amax), maximal velocity (Vmax), and time to reach Vmax (tVmax) were derived from position data. In addition, the subjects performed anaerobic tests: squat jump (SJ), countermovement jump (CMJ), and force-velocity test to measure maximal power, maximal theoretical cranking velocity (VO), maximal theoretical isometric force, and the Wingate anaerobic test (30 seconds). The mean 100-m run time of the subjects was 12.6 +/- 0.9 seconds. The highest correlations were calculated between Amax and V0 (r = 0.55, p < 0.01) and CMJ (r = 0.48, p < 0.05) and Vmax and SJ (r = 0.63, p < 0.01) and CMJ (r = 0.56, p < 0.05). The tVmax was uncorrelated to other tests. Because the CMJ was the anaerobic performance best correlated to the different kinematic parameters of the run, our results fail to identify one anaerobic test that specifically explains one sprint kinematic parameter.
The validity of recent curl-up tests in young adults.	The validity of 2 field tests of abdominal endurance was examined in a sample of 22 male and 22 female college students. Scores on the modified trunk-curl (7) and the 90-second bench trunk-curl (22) were correlated with isometric trunk flexor strength and endurance measured on a Cybex TEF machine. There were no significant correlations (-0.21 < r < 0.36) between the field tests and abdominal strength. Only the bench trunk-curl was significantly correlated (rmale = 0.50 and rfemale = 0.46, p < 0.05) with abdominal muscular endurance. The nonsignificant association with the modified curl-up was likely due to a ceiling effect created by the ease of the test. The weak correlations between field tests of abdominal endurance and isometric abdominal endurance (about 25% common variance) and a recent longitudinal study (17) suggest that the curl-ups scores and their hypothesized health-related fitness standards should be interpreted with caution.
The influence of pilocarpine and biperiden on pH value and calcium, phosphate, and bicarbonate concentrations in saliva during and after radiotherapy for head and neck cancer.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the influence of parasympathomimetic pilocarpine and anticholinergic biperiden on salivation, pH value, and calcium, phosphate, and bicarbonate concentrations in saliva in patients irradiated for malignant tumors of the head and neck region.
Magnetic resonance imaging findings of internal derangement and effusion in patients with unilateral temporomandibular joint pain.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between the presence of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) pain and the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings of internal derangement (ID) and effusion.
Generation of TACT image slices using different reconstruction algorithms: effects on natural caries detection.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether the method of reconstruction of tuned-aperture computed tomography (TACT) slices has an influence on observer performance in caries detection.
Surface anatomy of the face in Down's syndrome: anthropometric proportion indices in the craniofacial regions.	The objective of the study was to identify the proportions closest to normal and those indicating mild-to-moderate and severe degrees of disproportion. Eight proportion indices were analyzed in five craniofacial regions of 125 Down's syndrome patients, based on a total of 985 data points. More than two thirds of the patients fell within the normal range, although more than one quarter were abnormal (disproportionate). All statistical summaries were based on z-scores (adjusting for age and sex differences), converted into descriptive anthropometric categories to yield a simplified frequency distribution for each proportion index. Normal proportions were harmonious in 55.9% of patients. Disproportions were mild to moderate in 66.4%, severe in 33.6%. The highest frequency of harmony was found in the head (70.2%), the lowest in the orbits (40.8%). The highest percentage of mild-moderate disproportion was found in the face (79.3%). The highest percentage of severe disproportions was recorded in the intercanthal index of the orbits (44.7%) and the smallest frequency in the face (20.7%). In the five craniofacial regions among the normal proportions, harmonies were more frequent than disharmonies. Among the disproportions, the percentage of mild-moderate ones was greater than those of severe degree.
The timing of physiologic closure of the metopic suture: a review of 159 patients using reconstructed 3D CT scans of the craniofacial region.	The purpose of this study was to determine the normal physiologic timing of the closure of the metopic suture in non-craniosynostotic patients.
Radiation-induced craniofacial bone growth inhibition: development of an animal model.	Craniofacial deformities caused by therapeutic radiation-induced bone growth inhibition can occur in up to 100% of survivors of childhood head and neck cancers. The mechanism of radiation-induced craniofacial bone growth inhibition is poorly understood. The objective of this study is to establish a model of radiation-induced craniofacial bone growth inhibition to study the pathophysiology of radiation on growing membranous bone. Seven-week-old male New Zealand white rabbits were randomized into 4 groups (n = 10/group) and received a single dose of orthovoltage radiation (0, 15, 25, or 35 Gy) to the right orbital-zygomatic complex. Serial radiographs and computed tomography scans were performed for cephalometric analysis, bone volume, and bone density measurements until skeletal maturity at 21 weeks. Statistically significant ( P < 0.05) reductions in orbital-zygomatic complex linear bone growth, bone volume, and bone density were found after radiation with 25 or 35 Gy compared with nonirradiated control animals. A significant ( P < 0.05) decrease in orbital-zygomatic complex volume was noted after 15-Gy radiation but there were no significant effects on linear bone growth as assessed by cephalometric analysis at this dose. This study establishes the rabbit orbital-zygomatic complex as a suitable model for the study of radiation-induced craniofacial bone growth inhibition and will permit investigation into the underlying cellular and molecular basis of this injury.
Repair of a critical size defect in the rat mandible using allogenic type I collagen.	Mandibular fractures, resulting from either trauma or reconstructive surgery, can be challenging craniofacial problems. The morbidity of failed fracture healing is significant and may require bone grafting. Donor site morbidity and finite amounts of autogenous bone are major drawbacks of autogenous bone grafting. Similarly, the use of allografts and xenografts may be associated with an increased risk of rejection, infection, and nonunion. To circumvent the limitations of bone grafting, research efforts have focused on formulating a suitable bone substitute. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of type I collagen implants in repairing critical sized mandibular defects in rats. Twelve male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-300g) were divided equally into control and experimental groups. Full thickness, round, four millimeter in diameter defects were created in the ramus of the right mandible of all rats using an electrical burr at low speed. The defects were irrigated of all bone chips, and either filled with a precisely fitted disk of allogenic collagen type I gel (experimental animals) or left empty (control animals). Animals were killed 6 weeks after surgery and healing of the bone defects was assessed in a blinded fashion using radiologic and histologic analysis. Radiologic analysis of the control group revealed a clear circular right mandibular defect in all animals, whereas the collagen disk implant group revealed an indistinct to nonexistent right mandibular defect in all animals. Densitometric analysis revealed a significant difference between these groups (* P = 0.01). Similarly, gross analysis of control mandibles revealed a 4mm round, soft-tissue filled defect, while implanted defects demonstrated gross bone spanning the defect. Finally, histologic analysis of all control mandibles revealed clearly demarcated bony edges at the defect border with connective tissue spanning the defect. In contrast, histological analysis of all implanted mandibles revealed indistinct bony edges at the defect border with a thin layer of osteoblasts and viable bone spanning the defects. We have demonstrated the ability of type I collagen to promote healing of a membranous bony defect that would not otherwise heal at 6 weeks. The suitability of type I collagen as a carrier matrix provides ample opportunity for tissue-engineered approaches to further facilitate bony defect healing. Promoting bone formation through tissue engineering matrices offers great promise for skeletal healing and reconstruction.
Tissue-engineered bone repair of sheep cranial defects with autologous bone marrow stromal cells.	Cranial bone defect remains a major challenge to craniofacial surgeons because of limited availability of autologous bone graft to repair the defects and the donor site defects secondary to tissue harvesting. In contrast, tissue-engineering technique can generate a large bone tissue using small amount of autologous cells and therefore avoid these problems. Bone Marrow Stromal Cells (MSCs) have the potential of multi-lineage (including osteogenic) differentiation. The objective of this study was to investigate the potential of using autologous MSCs to repair cranial bone defects by a tissue-engineering approach. Autologous MSCs were isolated from eight adult sheep respectively and were in vitro expanded and induced to become osteogenic cells. Bilateral full-thickness defects (20 mm in diameter) of parietal bones were created in animals and the bone defects were either repaired with the bone implants constituted with MSCs and calcium alginate at the experimental side (n = 8) or treated with calcium alginate only without MSCs (n = 4) or left unrepaired (n = 4) at the control side. New bone tissues were observed either grossly or histologically at the defects of experimental group as early as 6 weeks post-repairing, but not in control groups. The engineered bone tissue became more mature at 18 weeks post-repairing. Three-dimensional computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed an almost complete repair of the defect of experimental group at 18 weeks. This study may provide insight for future clinical repair of cranial defect.
Structure of motor variability in marginally redundant multifinger force production tasks.	The framework of the uncontrolled manifold hypothesis (UCM hypothesis) was applied to the analysis of the structure of finger force variability during oscillatory force production tasks. Subjects produced cycles of force with one, two (index and middle), or three (index, middle, and ring) fingers acting in parallel against force sensors mounted inside a small frame. The frame could be placed on the top of a table (stable conditions) or on a 4-mm-wide supporting surface (unstable conditions). Subjects were less variable when they used two fingers than when using one finger; adding the third finger did not change indices of variability of the performance. Components of finger force variance that did (VUN) or did not (VCOMP) change the value of a particular functional variable were computed for two control hypotheses: (1) at each time, the subjects tried to stabilize the total value of force (force-control); and (2), at each time, the subjects tried to stabilize the total moment produced with respect to an axis parallel to the hand/forearm (moment-control). Most subjects showed selective stabilization of moment and destabilization of force throughout most of the force cycle, in both stable and unstable conditions. The shapes of VUN and VCOMP suggested a possibility of selective compensation of timing errors across fingers within force cycles. One subject showed different relations between VUN and VCOMP, suggesting that these relations did in fact reflect particular central strategies of solving the tasks. The UCM method is applicable to force production tasks. It allows the comparison of control hypotheses in a quantitative way and unveils central strategies of control of redundant motor systems. Within this approach, redundancy (rather, abundance) is not a problem but an inherent part of a solution for natural motor tasks.
Regression of area mortality rates on explanatory variables:  what weighting is appropriate?	"One can often gain insight into the aetiology of a disease by relating mortality rates in different areas to explanatory variables.  Multiple regression techniques are usually employed, but unweighted least squares may be inappropriate if the areas vary in population size.  Also, a fully weighted regression, with weights inversely proportional to binomial sampling variances, is usually too extreme.  This paper proposes an intermediate solution via maximum likelihood which takes account of three sources of variation in death rates:  sampling error, explanatory variables and unexplained differences between areas.  The method is also adapted for logit (death rates), standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and log (SMRs).  Two [United Kingdom] examples are presented."
Population concentration:  a consideration of density measures and correlates.	"The purpose of the paper is to explore the nature of association of certain external and internal density measures with each other and with a set of selected variables in four states of India.  Pearson's Simple Coefficient of Correlations and Stepwise Multiple Regression were used for analysis of data.  The results reinforce the notion of a clear distinction between external and internal density measures and their associative factors in India; the two measures of internal density, although highly correlated, were found to have varied relevance to the dependent variables."
Families in Israel, 1980.	This publication "presents data on families (households) in Israel for the year 1980.  The data are based on the series of civilian Labour Force Surveys conducted since 1954, and relate to the characteristics of families in Israel with regard to size of family, population group, age, continent of birth, years of schooling, type of locality of residence and sex of family head."
Internal migration in the Philippines during the 1960s.	"This paper presents a regression analysis describing some of the determinants of various types of migratory flows between and within urban and rural areas in the Philippines during the 1960s.... The individual characteristics of migrants are analysed independently from the effects of macro-economic variables, in consideration of the estimation problems raised if both were combined into a single equation model." A model is developed to allow for the estimation of the consequences of migration at places of origin and destination
World food resources and population:  the narrowing margin.	This bulletin examines the narrowing margin between global food production and population growth.  Between 1950 and 1971, world grain production nearly doubled and per capita production increased 31%.  During the 1970s, gains in output barely kept pace with population growth, consumption/person declined in sub-Saharan Africa and parts of Asia, food prices were volatile, and over 100 food deficit countries came to depend on the exportable surplus of North America, now the only major grain exporting region.  The world fish catch levelled off in the early 1970s and beef production, still dependent mainly on grassland grazing, levelled off in the mid-1970s.  With little new land left to plow, satisfying increased food demand now depends on sharp increases in yields on existing crop land.  Worldwide, this effort is hampered by loss of topsoil and irrigated land, conversion of cropland to nonfarm uses, rising energy costs, inefficient agrarian structures, particularly in the Soviet Union, the falling yield response to chemical fertilizers in agriculturally advanced countries, and the emerging competition between food and agriculturally based energy crops.  Green Revolution successes in some developing countries deomonstrate that, given the right inputs, 3rd world farmers can increase crop yields dramatically.  Feeding the world's poor also requires more equitable income and food distribution, including a reduction in the proportion of grain and fish consumed indirectly as livestock products by the affluent.  Most important in meeting food needs on a finite planet is braking population growth.  The author concludes that every effort should be made to stabilize world production at abour 6 billion by 2020, rather than 10.5 billion by 2110, as is now projected by the UN.
Notes on estimating the age distribution of emigrant surviving children]	"A procedure is described to obtain an age distribution of emigrant surviving children from the reports of such children obtained from women by a census or survey.  A simple form of the procedure, requiring a minimum of calculation, is shown to work almost as well as the more elaborate form, and is recommended for most uses.  "These new procedures, explicitly introducing an age model of migration, yield age distributions which are substantially different from, and probably more realistic than those obtained through the use of model fertility and mortality schedules alone.... The age distributions of migrant children [in Colombia] as obtained in this paper are compared with those obtained by Somoza.... The procedure described here produces a total almost 10 percent higher because it shifts the age distribution of the migrant children towards higher ages with lower proportions of surviving mothers."  (summary in ENG)
On estimating internal migration for open populations.	"The purpose of this note is to review the case for using the forward census survival ratio (FCSR) method for estimating internal migration.  Through this technique seems likely, on certain criteria, to offer usable estimates of migration, it suffers from what some critics regard as a crucial weakness, namely a sensitivity to inernational migration.  It is argued here, however, that this deficiency is less damaging than others have made it out to be.  Consequently, a case can be made for preferring the FCSR method to other methods."
The effects of internal migration on regional wage and unemployment disparities in Canada.	"This paper examines the role of the migration mechanism in the context of a general  interregional factor flow adjustment model.  Using an estimation technique, which pools cross-section and time series data, the direct effects of migration flows and regional investment on the growth of regional wages and unemployment [in Canada] are examined.  The results suggest that migration has a small, but significant impact on regional wages and unemployment rates."
Demographic characteristics of the rural population of Ethiopia.	"In the field of population studies, Ethiopia has neither carried out even a single population census nor established a vital statistics registration system.  But with the available scanty and defective data, attempts are made here to examine the demographic situation of rural Ethiopia.  Since only about 13% of the total population of the country are estimated to reside in agglomerations of 2,000 and above, Ethiopia is predominantly rural.  According to the estimates of the vital rates, Ethiopia has been experiencing high levels of fertility and mortality conditions.       "The low average life expectancy at birth, together with the high birth and death rates can indicate the low level of living which has been prevalent in the country."
The use of official sub-national population projections in England:  Phase 1, central government departments and public utilities.	"The use made of the official population projections and the derivative household and labour supply projections has been investigated recently in England through a survey of user and potential user organizations.  In view of the rather complex arrangements for producing the official projections, the paper begins by providing a summary of what projections are prepared and by whom.... The main part...presents an analysis of the results of the survey...concerned with who uses the projections, the factors influencing the use and value of projections and the demands for an extension of the current service."
A framework for estimating causes of death in Indonesia [causes of death in Indonesia].	A number of demographic techniques for the indirect estimation of trends in causes of death in Indonesia are proposed.  These involve "the use of rates and proportions derived from other nations experiencing similar levels of mortality to that prevailing in Indonesia.  Four sets of estimates were produced, the first based on a regression developed by Preston, the other three derived from national patterns of Mexico, the Philippines, and a composite group of countries.  These were compared with available epidemiologic and clinical data from Indonesia to produce a final set of estimates which accord both with known Indonesian patterns and medical findings from other nations."
Some remarks about the spatial differentiation of fertility in Poland]	"Some problems are discussed in connection with the estimation and interpretation of regression equations. Stability in time is suggested as one of the criteria of goodness of fit.... Several regression equations are estimated giving the gross reproduction rate as a linear function of the proportion of economically active females outside agriculture  (SUMMARY IN  ENG, RUS)
An attempt to use graph theory for the description of demographic events]	"The possibility is discussed of using graphs to describe a sequence of demographic events such as births, marriages and deaths. Among all sequences of demographic events those with perturbations are singled out. The following perturbations are defined: childlessness, premature termination of childbearing caused by the death of the female or termination of marriage due to divorce or death of spouse, remarriage of females and pre-marital births."  (SUMMARY IN  ENG, RUS)
Demography and computer simulation in historic village population reconstruction.	"Demographic anthropology has given rise to methodological advances in the analysis of single community populations.  However, the obstacles of small data bases and incomplete vital-event registration remain.  This paper details one approach to these problems; the principles of community demography are incorporated with computer simulation methodology, with the goals of validating the internal consistency of and determining demographic secular trends from data commonly utilized in anthropological investigations."  The approach is tested on data for the 250 inhabitants of Old Crow Village, Yukon Territory, Canada, in 1978.
Robust estimation of fertility by the use of model stable populations]	"If we know the proportion of population under 15 years of age, the probability of newborns to reach 5 years of age and the rate of growth of that population, by means of a very simple procedure we can estimate the birth rate, the growth reproduction rate and the total fertility rate through the appropriate use of stable population models.  Even if the real population is far from being a stable population the estimates are very little affected, which shows the robustness of the procedure."  (summary in ENG)
Trend in vasectomy acceptance: 1974-1981.	It is often heard in Thai population seminars and workshops that Thai men are resistent to vasectomy.  There are claims that due to traditional fears of vasectomy or an unwillingness to play a role in family planning most Thai men will not accept vasectomy services even if they are offered nearby.  This assumption may be wrong.  The Research and Evaluation Unit of the Family Health Division has graphed a new acceptance of vasectomy by month service January, 1974-June, 1981.  The graph also plots important events that should be related to vasectomy acceptance.  Indeed it appears that when extra effort is made, such as a demonstration mobile team, private sector reimbursement, short-term campaigns and the deployment of mobile teams, willing and waiting acceptors are there.  The fact that "extra effort" is required with vasectomy is probably more the result of a general reluctance to undergo the procedure than rather fear or hard-core resistance.
Extinction probability, regularity and asymptotic growth of Markovian populations.	"The distribution of the maximum and the extinction probability for a Markovian population is derived.  Asymptotic growth is described, using the sequence of sojourn times.  A regularity criterion for the processes under consideration exists under certain assumptions.  For a class of processes with specific population-dependent transition rates the asymptotic behaviour is given explicitly."
Birth and death processes with random environments in continuous time.	"A generalization to continuous time is given for a discrete-time model of a birth and death process in a random environment.  Some important properties of this process in the continuous-time setting are stated and proved including instability and extinction conditions, and when suitable absorbing barriers have been defined, methods are given for the calculation of extinction probabilities and the expected duration of the process."
Regional mobility in Greece:  a statistical analysis of the phenomenon.	The author uses regression models and census data to examine social and economic factors influencing the migration of the rural population in Greece.  "The basic conclusion...is that the mobility of the rural population is mainly affected by the trend of individuals to work in non-agricultural sectors where work becomes more productive.  Equally important is the influence of the more general trend of the population to migrate and the special characteristics of the population in some regions near the frontiers."  (SUMMARY IN  FRE)
Forecasting Australian marriage rates.	"The paper discusses the problem of modelling demographic variables for the purpose of forecasting.  Two empirical model selection procedures are applied to suggest final form forecasting equations for Australian marriage rates.  The suggested models are then assessed by comparing their post-sample forecast performance with that of univariate ARMA-type models of marriage rates which are regarded as approximations to marriage rate final equation models.  In this instance the ARMA models are preferred for forecasting purposes.  The properties of the ARMA model forecasts are then examined and the modelling strategy is contrasted with the regression method used by Withers."
A family of spatial interaction models incorporating information flows and choice set constraints applied to U.S. interstate labor flows.	"A new family of migration models belonging to the elimination by aspects family is examined, with the spatial interaction model shown to be a special case.  The models have simple forms; they incorporate information flow processes and choice set constraints; they are free of problems raised by the Luce Choice Axiom; and are capable of generating intransitive flows.  Preliminary calibrations using the Continuous Work History Sample [time] series data indicate that the model fits the migration data well, while providing estimates of interstate job message flows.  The preliminary calculations also indicate that care is needed in assuming that destination [attraction] are independent of origins."
Estimation of place-to-place migration flows from net migration totals:  a minimum information approach.	"A truism in demography has been that net migration may be derived from information on gross place-to-place flows, but that gross place-to-place flows cannot be inferred back from information on the net population movements in a system.  Some recent work on maximum entropy and minimum information models, however, suggests a possible means for estimating just such as set of place-to-place flows.  The net migration constrained model presented here could prove particularly useful for updating detailed migration matrices on the basis of current net migration estimates, and could even provide some clues as to the nature of the still poorly understood relationship between gross and net migration.  Performance of the model is demonstrated using flow matrices from the 1960 and 1970 U.S. Censuses.
An econometric model for forecasting regional population growth.	"An econometric model for forecasting net migration and natural increase is proposed and then estimated using time-series data for Texas.  The model is simulated five years out-of-sample and found to be quite accurate in forecasting future population growth.  It outperforms simpler prediction methods, thus indicating that explicit modeling of net migration and natural increase is superior to modeling only total population."
Migration in an interregional macroeconometric model of the United States:  will net outmigration from the Northeast continue?	"This paper reports on the specification, estimation and simulation of an interregional net migration model of the United States.  The model makes use of time series data including, as explanatory variables, wage rates, unemployment rates, and population density.  Simulation experiments are undertaken by joining the migration model with a multi-regional macroeconometric model to examine the effect [on] migration patterns of changes in national economic growth.  In particular, the net outmigration trends in the Northeast are examined under alternative scenarios including faster national economic growth and a different energy pricing policy."
A method of estimating adult mortality trends from widowhood and death distribution data.	"This paper is an attempt to find a procedure for estimating past trends in the rate of decline of adult mortality [using] data collected during a census or a single sample survey.  It indirectly focuses on trends in adult death rates by looking at proportions not-widowed by age-groups and changes in these proportions caused by diminishing death rates.  An equation has been developed which expresses the proportion not-widowed of the ever-married population in an age-group as a function of the current level of mortality in the population, a first marriage frequency distribution, and the past rate of mortality decline."  The technique is applied to data from the 1974 Bangladesh Retrospective Survey of Fertility and Mortality.
On the persistence of U.S. migration rates in the 20th century.	The persistence or inertia of net migration rates in the United States during the twentieth century is measured.  A set of basic migration data for states, counties, and state economic areas is described, and manipulations of these data are discussed.  "The manipulated data are [then] analyzed graphically and by regression.  The report concludes with a few remarks on the use of demographic extrapolations for planning and policy purposes."
Some aspects of modern population mathematics.	"The purpose of this paper is to survey a number of the technical tools and models that have found use in the study of human and other populations, and to indicate some problems of current interest.  These tools and models are varied:  integral equations, nonlinear oscillations, differential geometry, dynamical systems, nonlinear operation, bifurcation theory, semigroup theory, martingale theory, Markov processes, diffusion processes, branching processes, ergodic theory, prediction theory and state-space models.  A fairly extensive bibliography is provided.  Also an Appendix has been added describing the analysis of a classical entomological data set."  (summary in FRE)
Personality factors related to black teenage pregnancy and abortion.	48 pregnant adolescents who applied for therapeutic abortions (TAs) were compared with 55 adolescents who planned to have their babies (Terms) and 67 adolescents who were not pregnant (Controls) on the California Psychological Inventory (CPI).  All the subjects were single, black, and ages 15-16.  CPI results point to psychological differences with the Controls being most socialized, followed by the TAs, and then the Terms.  Term girls seem to be experiencing a void and appear to be trying to fill it by assuming an adult role and having a baby; the TAs do not seem to have these same needs.  In addition, those girls who became pregnant and described the relationship with the putative father as casual, appear on the CPI to have more daily problems, lack socialization, be less clear thinking, and have poor self-control.  Pregnant girls who have good communication with their mothers showed no differences on the CPI from girls with poor communication with their mothers.
The urban density function and its application:  cross-sectional approach.	Using population census data for the years 1947-1971, the author analyzes the relationship between changes in urban density and population growth in three major coastal urban centers in Queensland, Australia.  "Changes in density patterns over time are examined in terms of the empirical exponential density gradient models which emphasise the significance of the distance from the CBD (Central Business District), and a projection of residential population in the centres is made for the year 1990."
The effect of the environment on the crack initiation toughness of dental poly(methyl methacrylate).	The development of linear elastic fracture mechanics has been traced briefly, with emphasis on the approach based on stress intensity. Factors affecting fracture toughness include the effects of the environment, but little about these is known at present. Fracture behavior in two-phase acrylic systems has also been reviewed. In the light of this, SEN specimens of heat-cured denture-base PMMA were saturated in a range of liquids and extended to failure at chewing speed. Crack initiation toughnesses and critical flaw sizes were thus determined. The effects of the chemical environment on the relationship between these two parameters showed that vegetable oil had increased the notch sensitivity of the resin, while 4% ethanol and soap solution increased the plasticization of the crack tip beyond that in water alone. Although the behavior at the crack tip was similar for all the other aqueous media, the craze resistance of the resin could be altered by the chemical nature of the liquid; this might explain in part the behavioral strengths of the un-notched material.
The influence of physico-chemical and process conditions on the physical stability of plasmid DNA complexes using response surface methodology.	Research is progressing fast to find safe and effective methods of delivering therapeutic genes to patients afflicted with a range of genetic and acquired diseases that either do not respond at all, or respond poorly, to treatment with small-molecule drugs or protein-replacement therapy. A technical barrier that remains relates to the need for scalable operations that can consistently and reproducibly make large quantities of the therapeutic gene vectors under the current Good Manufacturing Practice ('cGMP'). The present investigation focuses on these issues and introduces a new method of assessing the engineering effects of process and material factors on the colloidal properties of plasmid-DNA delivery systems based on response surface methodology (RSM) and experimental techniques. Previously, experiments have shown that several factors can reduce the physical stability of non-viral delivery systems. Specifically, it has been demonstrated that the mean size and charge of plasmid DNA condensed by cationic agents are affected by many factors, including the pH and ionic strength of the buffer, and the method of preparation. For example, the method and intensity of mixing of the DNA with condensing and conjugating agents have been shown to be important. Using RSM to analyse new experimental data in the present paper, we report on the impact of these factors and, more crucially, the effects of interaction between the factors on the colloidal properties of the DNA-vector complexes. Specifically, for plasmid DNA condensed by poly-L-lysine, interactions between ionic strength, pH and DNA concentrations play a critical role. Whether poly-L-lysine should be used as a condensing agent in the final delivery system remains to be demonstrated. However, the use of RSM combined with the scaleable experimental approach described in this paper may be applied to other delivery systems.
Height of girls with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.	In a Finnish population, the standing height of 1500 consecutive female patients aged 9-24 years (mean 13.9 years) with untreated idiopathic scoliosis of at least 10 degrees in their lateral curves was compared with the standing height of average girls. The mean magnitude of the major curves was 29.4 degrees (range 10 degrees-80 degrees), and that of the minor curves 20.3 degrees (range 0 degrees-66 degrees). A formula for the height loss caused by the lateral curves, and that caused by thoracic kyphosis, was derived. The corrected height of the girls with idiopathic scoliosis was highly significantly (P<0.001) greater than the height of average girls at the age of 11-15, and this high level of significance was present at the age of 11-13, even without correcting for the height loss caused by scoliosis. After maturation, the girls with idiopathic scoliosis were not significantly taller than average girls. On average, the magnitude of thoracic kyphosis did not affect the height of patients with scoliosis as compared with the height of normal girls of the same age.
Regulating intensity using perceived exertion during extended exercise periods.	The present study was undertaken to examine the validity of using the OMNI scale of perceived exertion to regulate intensity during extended exercise periods. Forty-eight subjects (24 male, 24 female) were recruited and each subject completed a maximal graded exercise test (GXT) and two 20-min submaximal exercises. During the GXT, ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) as well as oxygen uptake (VO(2)) and heart rate (HR) equivalent to 50 and 70% of maximum VO(2) (VO(2max)) were estimated. During each submaximal exercise, subjects were instructed to produce and maintain a workload equivalent to the RPE estimated at 50 or 70% VO(2max), and VO(2) and HR were measured every 5 min throughout the exercise. Of the 48 subjects, 12 (6 male and 6 female) performed both the estimation and production trials on a treadmill (TM/TM), 12 (6 male and 6 female) performed both the estimation and production trials on a cycle ergometer (C/C), 12 (6 male and 6 female) performed the estimation trial on a treadmill and the production trial on a cycle ergometer (TM/C), and 12 (6 male and 6 female) performed the estimation trial on a cycle ergometer and the production trial on a treadmill (C/TM). No differences in VO(2) between the estimation and any 5 min of the production trial were observed at either intensity in TM/TM and C/C. No differences in HR between the estimation and any 5 min of the production trial were also observed at 50% VO(2max) in TM/TM and at both 50 and 70% VO(2max) in C/C. However, HR was higher at 20th min of the production trial at 70% VO(2max) in TM/TM. Both the VO(2) and HR were generally lower in TM/C and higher in C/TM. However, these differences diminished when values were normalized using VO(2max) of the same mode that other groups had attained. These data suggest that under both intra- and intermodal conditions, using the OMNI perceived exertion scale is effective not only in establishing the target intensity at the onset of exercise, but also in maintaining the intensity throughout a 20-min exercise session.
Direct and indirect methods for determining plasma volume during thermoneutral and cold-water immersion.	Plasma volume (PV), determined indirectly from changes in haematocrit (Hct) and haemoglobin concentration ([Hb]), underestimates the absolute PV change (Evans blue dye) during thermoneutral immersion. Since PV changes during cold-water immersion have only been determined indirectly, we hypothesised that a similar underestimation may occur. Therefore, we compared the indirectly-measured PV with a direct-tracer dilution method (Evans blue dye column elution) in seven healthy males, during three, 60-min exposures: air (control; 21.2 degrees C), thermoneutral immersion (34.5 degrees C) and cold-water immersion (18.6 degrees C). During thermoneutral immersion, the directly-measured PV increased by 16.2 (1.4)% (P<0.05) and the indirectly-measured by 8.5 (0.8)% (P<0.05), with the latter underestimating the former by 43 (9.1)% (P<0.05). During cold immersion, the direct PV decreased by 17.9 (3.0)% (P<0.05) and the indirect by 8.0 (1.2)% (P<0.05), with the latter representing a 52 (6.8)% (P<0.05) underestimation of the direct PV change. Directionally-equivalent underestimations of PV change occur when using the indirect method during both thermoneutral and cold-water immersion. The assumptions inherent in the indirect method (constant F-cell ratio) appear to be violated during water immersion.
Running training and adaptive strategies of locomotor-respiratory coordination.	It has been suggested that stronger coupling between locomotory and breathing rhythms may occur as a result of training in the particular movement pattern and also may reduce the perceived workload or metabolic cost of the movement. Research findings on human locomotor-respiratory coordination are equivocal, due in part to the fact that assessment techniques range in sensitivity to important aspects of coordination (e.g. temporal ordering of patterns, half-integer couplings and changes in frequency and phase coupling). An additional aspect that has not received much attention is the adaptability of this coordination to changes in task constraints. The current study investigated the effect of running training on the locomotor-respiratory coordination and the adaptive strategies observed across a wide range of walking and running speeds. Locomotor-respiratory coordination was evaluated by the strength and variability of both frequency and phase coupling patterns that subjects displayed within and across the speed conditions. Male subjects (five runners, five non-runners) locomoted at seven different treadmill speeds. Group results indicated no differences between runners and non-runners with respect to breathing parameters, stride parameters, as well as the strength and variability of the coupling at each speed. Individual results, however, showed that grouping subjects masks large individual differences and strategies across speeds. Coupling strategies indicated that runners show more stable dominant couplings across locomotory speeds than non-runners do. These findings suggest that running training does not change the strength of locomotor-respiratory coupling but rather how these systems adapt to changing speeds.
Variation of soluble transferrin receptor and ferritin concentrations in human serum during recovery from exercise.	Serum soluble transferrin receptor (sTfR) has been proposed as a more stable index of iron status than serum ferritin in athletes. However, the variation in sTfR concentration during recovery from acute exercise is unknown. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of prolonged moderate exercise on ferritin and sTfR concentrations, as well as on several hematologic variables up to 24 h post-exercise. Fifteen young, untrained men exercised on a cycle ergometer for 45 min at a heart rate of 150-155 beats min(-1) and provided blood samples before as well as immediately, 6 h, and 24 h after exercise. Ferritin and sTfR values did not change significantly with time. sTfR levels exhibited lower variation during the observation period, the median intra-individual coefficient of variation being 5.2%, as opposed to 10.9% for ferritin. In conclusion, serum ferritin concentration is not affected by prolonged moderate exercise and can be used as a reliable index of iron status, at least for athletes not involved in extreme physical activities. Serum sTfR concentration seems to be more stable and could replace ferritin as the preferred index of iron stores if problems associated with the novelty of the assay were overcome.
Diffusion-weighted imaging provides support for secondary neuronal damage from intraparenchymal hematoma.	It is controversial whether an intracerebral hematoma (ICH) causes ischemia of surrounding brain. By virtue of its high sensitivity to acute cerebral infarction, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) helps answer this question. We used this technique to assess the parenchyma surrounding ICH for restricted diffusion. Echoplanar DWI (b 1000 s/mm(2)) and conventional MRI sequences were performed in 30 subjects (symptom duration 7-75 h) with primary ICH, mean volume: 13+/-15 cm(3). We calculated mean apparent diffusion coefficients (ADC) within high signal regions around the hematoma on DWI or T2-weighted images and within the ICH itself, comparing them to the contralateral brain. We used the Student's t -test to examine for differences between these regions and linear regression to relate changes to the age of the ICH. A thin rim of high signal on DWI and a wider rim on T2-weighted images surrounded all hematomas. The ADC within the rim on DWI showed a maximum reduction of 40%, in two patients imaged within 10 h of symptom onset. They rose during the first day (r(2)=0.84; P <0.03) and then showed a mild decrease, becoming the same as ADC in other areas of the brain (r(2)=0.5; P <0.03). The rim on T2-weighting showed a mean increase of 50% and ADC within the ICH were reduced by a mean of 38%; these variations showed no relationship with ICH age and no group showed any relationship with ICH size. The ADC within the three regions was significantly different from each other. The presence of restricted diffusion in the parenchyma surrounding ICH provides support for secondary neuronal damage.
MR diffusion imaging and MR spectroscopy of maple syrup urine disease during acute metabolic decompensation.	Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is an inborn error of amino acid metabolism, which affects the brain tissue resulting in impairment or death if untreated. Imaging studies have shown reversible brain edema during acute metabolic decompensation. The purpose of this paper is to describe the diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and spectroscopy findings during metabolic decompensation and to assess the value of these findings in the prediction of patient outcome. Six patients with the diagnosis of MSUD underwent conventional MR imaging with DWI during acute presentation with metabolic decompensation. Spectroscopy with long TE was performed in four of the six patients. Follow-up examinations were performed after clinical and metabolic recovery. DWI demonstrated marked restriction of proton diffusion compatible with cytotoxic or intramyelinic sheath edema in the brainstem, basal ganglia, thalami, cerebellar and periventricular white matter and the cerebral cortex. This was accompanied by the presence of an abnormal branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) and branched-chain alpha-keto acids (BCKA) peak at 0.9 ppm as well as elevated lactate on proton spectroscopy in all four patients. The changes in all six patients were reversed with treatment without evidence of volume loss or persistent tissue damage. The presence of cytotoxic or intramyelinic edema as evidenced by restricted water diffusion on DWI, with the presence of lactate on spectroscopy, could imply imminent cell death. However, in the context of metabolic decompensation in MSUD, it appears that changes in cell osmolarity and metabolism can reverse completely after metabolic correction.
MRI of intracerebral hematoma: value of vasogenic edema ratio for predicting the cause.	We evaluated a method for quantifying vasogenic edema (VE) on MRI to identify brain hematomas caused by neoplasms. We performed a blinded review of 68 acute and subacute hematomas caused by neoplasms (22), hypertension or presumed amyloid angiopathy (27), or vascular malformations (19). The extent of vasogenic edema was quantified on an axial T2-weighted image using the VE ratio: the maximum width of high signal surrounding a hematoma and the mean diameter of the hematoma. Hematomas caused by neoplasm were associated with more vasogenic edema (mean VE ratio 104%+/-15%; mean VE width 2.4+/-0.7 cm) than non-neoplastic hematomas (mean VE ratio 37%+/-5%; P =0.001). When the width of VE was equal to or more half the diameter the hematoma (VE ratio 50%), the positive predictive value for tumor was 66%; when it was equal to or more than the diameter, the positive predictive value was 71%. All six hematomas with VE ratios > or = 150% were caused by neoplasm.
Detecting the subregion proceeding to infarction in hypoperfused cerebral tissue: a study with diffusion and perfusion weighted MRI.	Diffusion and perfusion weighted MRI have been widely used in ischaemic stroke. We studied 17 patients in whom ischaemic areas showed an ischaemic core, an area of infarct growth and hypoperfused but ultimately surviving tissue. Apparent diffusion coefficients (ADC) were measured on days 1, 2, and 8 in the three subregions and in contralateral control areas. Cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), and mean transit time (MTT) were measured in these regions on day 1 perfusion maps. On day 1, the ischaemic core had very low ADC and CBF and increased MTT. The ADC in the ischaemic core gradually increased during the week. The area of infarct growth on day 1 had slightly but significantly decreased ADC (96% of control, P=0.028), moderately decreased CBF and increased MTT. On day 1 the hypoperfused but surviving tissue had slightly but significantly increased ADC (103% of control, P=0.001), mildly decreased CBF and increased CBV and MTT. The ADC of the area of infarct growth decreased to the same level as in the ischaemic core on days 2 and 8. That of surviving tissue was still above normal on day 2 (103% of control), but had returned to the normal level by day 8. Measurement of ADC combined with perfusion MRI may help distinguish different subregions in acutely hypoperfused brain.
Is there a correlation between operative results and change in ventricular volume after shunt placement? A study of 60 cases of idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus.	In patients with communicating or normal-pressure hydrocephalus, ventricular volume decreases following implantation of differential pressure valves. We implanted hydrostatic (Miethke dual-switch) valves in 60 patients with normal-pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) between September 1997 and December 2001. The patients underwent CT 1 year after operation, and we measured the Evans index. Although 83% of the patients showed no change in ventricular volume as assessed by this index, 72% nevertheless showed good to excellent and 16% satisfactory clinical improvement, while 12% showed no improvement. Moderate or marked reduction in ventricular size was observed in 17%, of whom 40% of these patients showed good to excellent and 20% satisfactory clinical improvement; 40% showed unsatisfactory improvement. The favourable outcome following implantation of a hydrostatic shunt thus did not correlate with decreased ventricular volume 1 year after operation, better outcomes being observed in patients with little or no alteration in ventricular size than in those with a marked decrease. Postoperative change in ventricular volume in NPH thus does not have the same significance as in patients with high-pressure hydrocephalus.
Effects of body temperature and hydration state on organismal performance of toads, Bufo americanus.	Temperature and humidity are dominant environmental variables affecting performance of nocturnal, terrestrial amphibians. Toads are frequently active at body temperatures (T(b)) and hydration states (HS) that yield suboptimal performance. We investigated the combined effects of T(b) and HS on feeding, locomotion, and metabolism of Bufo americanus. More toads responded to the presence of prey when fully hydrated than when dehydrated, and times to orient to prey, maneuver around a barrier, and reach prey were less in hydrated than in dehydrated animals. Time to capture prey decreased with increasing T(b) in fully hydrated, but not dehydrated, toads, and hydrated animals caught prey more rapidly than did dehydrated animals. Distance traveled in 5 min and aerobic scope were affected by T(b). Generally, individuals that performed well in the feeding experiments at a particular T(b) and HS also performed well at a different T(b) and HS. The same was true for distance traveled and aerobic scope. However, within combinations of T(b) and HS, correlations between performance variables were minimal. Specialization of a particular variable resulting in high performance at a certain T(b) and HS does not appear to exact a cost in terms of performance at a different T(b) and HS.
C-reactive protein in acute myocardial infarction: association with heart failure.	High C-reactive protein (CRP) levels have been associated with higher mortality rate in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, it is not known whether inflammation plays a role in the time-course of heart failure (HF) in this clinical setting. Our aim was to study the nature of the relationship between CRP and HF during AMI.
The relationship between health risk behaviors and fear in one urban seventh grade class.	A descriptive, correlational study was undertaken with 54 urban, 7th graders (age, 11-13 y) from one class. By using the Youth Risk Behaviors Surveillance System Questionnaire (YRBSS), information was collected about health risk behaviors as well as unintentional and intentional injury. Findings indicate that these adolescent students have significant fears related to their environment; they are fearful of being hurt. These students also reported increased incidence of health risk behaviors including alcohol use, carrying weapons, and staying up late at night. The findings suggest a need to understand how adolescents channel fear of harm to self into other unhealthy behaviors. Nurses are often in an ideal position to assess the health and behaviors of adolescents and to offer education, health promotion, and support to this at-risk population.
Digital imaging as a possible approach in evaluation of islet yield.	Digital image analysis (DIA) is a new method in assessment of islet amount, which is expected to provide reliable and consistent results. We compared this method with conventional counting of small numbers of rat islets. Islets were isolated from 8 pancreases and counted in 24 samples in duplicate, first routinely by sizing according to estimated diameters under a calibrated reticule and then by processing of islets pictures taken by camera. As presumed, no significant difference was found in absolute numbers of islets per sample between DIA and conventional assessment. Volumes of islets per sample measured by DIA were on average more than 10% higher than amounts evaluated conventionally, which was statistically significant. DIA has been shown to be an important method to remove operator bias and provide consistent results. Evaluation of only two dimensions of three-dimensional objects still represents a certain limitation of this technique. With lowering of computer prices the system could become easily available for islet laboratories.
Correlation between negative near-wall shear stress in human aorta and various stages of congestive heart failure.	The critical effect of advanced congestive heart failure is reduced blood flow in descending aorta resulting from mild to severe reduction in cardiac output, usually accompanying low ejection fraction. In these patients the heart tries to compensate by beating faster, but reduced blood flow combined with increased heart rate can lead to retrograde flow and negative shear stress along the vessel walls during each cardiac cycle. Our studies show that near-wall negative shear stress can result from an entire-retrograde flow at normal heart rates or a Womersley-type phase delayed near-wall retrograde flow at high heart rate and low ejection fraction conditions. In our experiments, a compliant aortic loop with appropriate pressure and flow instrumentation was used, running on either various aqueous glycerin solutions or property filtered, anticoagulated diluted bovine blood. The flow field was mapped using a General Electric Vingmed System 5 platform. The resulting images were analyzed with Caltech's digital ultrasound speckle image velocimetry technique. We showed the occurrence of near-wall retrograde flow under certain aortic flow rates and frequencies, charted via an empirical relationship between Reynolds and Womersley numbers. Also, we demonstrated a strong correlation between retrograde flow level and transition from preliminary to advanced congestive heart failure patients.
On assessing responsiveness of health-related quality of life instruments: guidelines for instrument evaluation.	A lack of clarity exists about the definition and adequate approach for evaluating responsiveness. An overview is presented of different categories of definitions and methods used for calculating responsiveness identified through a literature search. Twenty-five definitions and 31 measures were found. When applied to a general and a disease-specific quality of life questionnaire large variation in results was observed, partly explained by different goals of existing methods. Four major issues are considered to claim the usefulness of an evaluative health-related quality of life (HRQL) instrument. Their relation with responsiveness is discussed. The confusion about responsiveness arises mostly from a lack of distinction between cross-sectional and longitudinal validity and from a lack of distinction between responsiveness defined as the effect of treatment and responsiveness defined as the correlation of changes in the instrument with changes in other measures. All measures of what is currently called responsiveness can be looked at as measures of longitudinal validity or as measures of treatment effect. The latter ones tell us little about how well the instrument serves its purpose and are only of use in interpreting score changes. We therefore argue that the concept of responsiveness can be rejected as a separate measurement property of an evaluative instrument.
Assessment of muscle fatigue during biking.	The analysis of the surface myoelectric signal recorded while a muscle is performing a sustained contraction is a valuable tool for assessing the progression of localized fatigue. It is well known that the modifications of the spectral content of the myoelectric signal are mainly related to changes in the interstitial fluid pH, which, in turn, affect the membrane excitability of the active muscle fibers. This paper describes the effects of muscle fatigue on the surface myoelectric signal recorded from three thigh and leg muscles during biking, on a population consisting of 22 young healthy volunteers. The purpose of this study was to obtain normative data relative to an exercise protocol mild enough to be applicable, in the future, to pathological subjects as well. Each subject was asked to exercise 30 min on a cycloergometer at a constant velocity and against a constant torque. While subjects were biking, the surface myoelectric signal was recorded from the rectus femoris, the biceps femoris, and the gastrocnemius muscles. In this study, we considered two different aspects of muscle fatigue: first, the localized muscle fatigue as shown by the decrement of the instantaneous frequency of the myoelectric signal during the exercise; second, the modifications of the muscle ON-OFF timing, which could be explained as a strategy for increasing endurance by modifying the role of different muscles during the exercise. The first aspect was studied by obtaining the spectral characteristics of the signals by means of bilinear time-frequency transforms and by applying an original estimator of the instantaneous frequency of stochastic processes based on cross time-frequency transforms. Our results demonstrated that none of the subjects showed significant signs of localized muscle fatigue, since the decrement of the instantaneous frequency during the exercise was always lower than 5% of its initial value. Muscle ON-OFF timing was obtained by applying to the raw myoelectric signal a double threshold statistical detector to identify the time intervals during which the observed muscles were active. This demonstrated that the subjective feeling of fatigue each subject reported during the exercise did not cause a change of the activation strategy of the observed muscles. It is concluded that the experimental protocol herein described and the signal processing procedures adopted are appropriate for monitoring different effects of muscle fatigue during biking. Moreover, data obtained from our sample population can be considered as a reference for studying the manifestations of muscle fatigue in pathological subjects asked to follow a similar experimental protocol.
Streptococcal diversity in oral biofilms with respect to salivary function.	In a previous study, we screened 149 subjects and established four groups high or low for salivary killing of oral bacteria, and for aggregation and live and dead adherence of oral bacteria (as a combined factor). Caries scores were significantly lower in both High Aggregation-Adherence groups. In this study we looked at the effects of those differences in salivary function on the quantity and diversity of oral biofilm streptococci.
Poverty, process of care, and outcome in acute coronary syndromes.	We sought to determine whether income-based disparities in care processes and outcome exist in patients with acute coronary syndromes.
Hepatic lipase mutations,elevated high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and increased risk of ischemic heart disease: the Copenhagen City Heart Study.	We investigated associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the hepatic lipase promoter, levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and risk of ischemic heart disease (IHD). Our primary hypothesis was that these SNPs associate with IHD after adjustment for HDL levels.
Preserved endothelial function after long-term eccentric isosorbide mononitrate despite moderate nitrate tolerance.	We sought to investigate the effects of orally administered, long-term, eccentric isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN) on endothelial function.
Association of albuminuria with systolic and diastolic left ventricular dysfunction in type 2 diabetes: the Strong Heart Study.	We sought to compare systolic and diastolic function in American Indians with diabetes mellitus (DM) based on albuminuria status.
Quantitative comparison of spontaneous and paced 12-lead electrocardiogram during right ventricular outflow tract ventricular tachycardia.	The purpose of this study was to objectively quantify the similarity of 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) waveforms using two quantitative metrics, the correlation coefficient (CORR) and the mean absolute deviation (MAD).
Quantitative assessment of coronary stenosis by harmonic power Doppler with a simple pulsing sequence and vasodilator stress in patients.	We examined whether myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) with harmonic power Doppler (HPD) employing a simple ultrasound pulsing sequence enables estimation of the severity of coronary artery stenosis in patients.
Cardiac homeobox gene NKX2-5 mutations and congenital heart disease: associations with atrial septal defect and hypoplastic left heart syndrome.	We sought to examine the importance of mutations in the cardiac transcription factor gene NKX2-5 in patients with an atrial septal defect (ASD), patent foramen ovale (PFO), or hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS).
Effects of diuretic treatment on cardiac and circulating RAS in chronic heart failure post-myocardial infarction in rats.	Cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) is activated by an increase in wall stress and is involved in remodeling processes. Heart failure is often treated with ACE inhibitors and diuretics although diuretic treatment could activate the renin-angiotensin system (RAS).
Central hemodynamic responses during serial exercise tests in heart failure patients using implantable hemodynamic monitors.	Exercise testing is commonly used in patients with congestive heart failure for diagnostic and prognostic purposes. Such testing may be even more valuable if invasive hemodynamics are acquired. However, this will make the test more complex and expensive and only provides information from isolated moments. We studied serial exercise tests in heart failure patients with implanted hemodynamic monitors allowing recording of central hemodynamics.
The prognostic importance of heart failure and age in patients treated with primary angioplasty.	Effective risk stratification is essential in the management of patients with acute myocardial infarction. Available models have not yet been studied and validated in patients treated with primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction.
Simultaneous vs. sequential biventricular pacing in dilated cardiomyopathy: an acute hemodynamic study.	Simultaneous biventricular pacing improves left ventricular (LV) systolic performance in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and intraventricular conduction delay. We tested the hypothesis that further improvements can be obtained using sequential biventricular pacing by optimizing both atrioventricular and interventricular delays.
Development and testing of the European Heart Failure Self-Care Behaviour Scale.	Improvement of self-care behaviour is an aim of several non-pharmacological nurse-led management programmes for patients with heart failure. These programmes are often evaluated based on their effects on readmission, costs and quality of life. It is, however, also important to know how patients changed their self-care behaviour as a result of such a programme. Therefore a comprehensive, reliable and valid measure of the self-care behaviour of HF patients is needed.
Estimation of population pharmacokinetic parameters in the presence of non-compliance.	In population pharmacokinetic (PK) studies, patients' drug plasma profiles are routinely analyzed assuming that all patients took their drug at the times and in the amounts specified. However, patient non-compliance with the prescribed drug regimen is a leading source of failure to drug therapy. It has been reported that over 30% of patients routinely skip doses regardless of their disease, prognosis, or symptoms. This brings into question the assumption regarding full compliance for population PK analyses. This paper describes the estimation of population PK parameters in the presence and absence of non-compliance while either assuming full compliance or estimating compliance using a hierarchical Bayesian approach. Assessment of compliance for a given dose was limited to one of three possibilities: no dose was taken at the prescribed time, the prescribed dose was taken at the prescribed time, or twice the prescribed dose was taken at the prescribed time. Simulated data sets based on a one-compartment pharmacokinetic model with first order elimination were analyzed using WinBUGS (Bayesian inference Using Gibbs Sampling) software. An initial feasibility simulation experiment, using a simple, but informative PK sampling design with bolus input of drug, was performed. A second simulation study was then carried out using a more realistic sampling design and first-order input of drug. The simulated sampling design included observations after known doses as well as after uncertain doses. Results from the feasibility study revealed that when compliance was estimated instead of being assumed to be 100%, the relative prediction error for clearance (CL) decreased from 0.25 to 0.10 for 60% compliance and from 0.6 to 0.2 for 35% compliance. Estimates of the interoccasion variability of clearance were improved by compliance estimation but still had substantial positive bias. Estimated of interindividual variability were relatively insensitive to compliance estimation. Estimates for volume of distribution (V) and its associated variances were not affected by incorporation of compliance estimates, perhaps due to the specific sampling design that was used. The design was relatively uninformative regarding V. In the more realistic study, estimates for CL, V and the difference between the absorption rate constant and the elimination rate constant (KA-K) were improved by the incorporation of compliance estimation. The median relative errors were reduced from 0.51 to -0.01 for CL, from 0.49 to 0.04 for V, and from 0.49 to -0.02 for Ka-K. The bias in interoccasion variances for V and CL appeared to be reduced by compliance estimation while estimates of interindividual variability were not affected in a systematic fashion. The bias in the residual error variance was decreased from a relative error of about 2 to close to 0. The use of hierarchical Bayesian modeling with the incorporation of compliance estimation decreased the bias in the typical value parameter but the effects on variance parameters were less consistent. The encouraging results of these simulation experiments will hopefully stimulate further evaluation of this methodology for the estimation of population pharmacokinetic parameters in the presence of potential patient noncompliance.
Coronal multiplanar reconstruction view from isotropic voxel data sets obtained with multidetector-row CT: assessment of detection and size of mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes.	To assess the detection and size of mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes by multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) view from isotropic voxel data sets obtained with multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT).
Gene interaction in DNA microarray data is decomposed by information geometric measure.	Given the vast amount of gene expression data, it is essential to develop a simple and reliable method of investigating the fine structure of gene interaction. We show how an information geometric measure achieves this.
Macrophage-granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and fibroblast growth factor in the blood of patients with hyperlipoproteinemia.	Solid-phase ELISA revealed increased content of macrophage-granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and basic fibroblast growth factor in the serum of hyperlipoproteinemic patients.
Scopolamine impairs human recognition memory: data and modeling.	Eight subjects studied a set of complex visual images after administration of 0.4 mg scopolamine. Another 8 subjects performed the same task without drug administration. On a subsequent item recognition test, subjects rated, on a 5-point scale, their confidence that the studied pictures and an equal number of unstudied lures were actually presented. Results showed that scopolamine affected responses to studied items, but not unstudied lures, demonstrating an unambiguous effect of scopolamine on recognition memory. To describe the scopolamine-injected subjects' data, the authors constructed a new model of 2-process recognition that includes the A. P. Yonelinas (1994) model as a limiting case. The model analysis suggests that scopolamine affected both familiarity and recollection. In particular, scopolamine did not affect the frequency with which recollection took place, but rather, affected the amount of recollected information.
Utility analysis for clinical decision-making in small treatment settings.	Data-driven clinical decision-making can be difficult in settings that service relatively few patients because of the small samples available, the patients' potential dissimilarity from participants in published research, and highly limited resources. This study was designed to demonstrate how utility analyses might assist clinical decision-making in small treatment settings and provide data for promoting programmatic improvements. Data came from a study to identify rural juvenile delinquents suspected to not benefit from residential behavioral treatment. A prospective correlational design was used with data from a midwestern juvenile criminal justice residential unit in which about 30 males were treated annually. Outcomes included treatment performance measures and number of delinquent offenses during the year after treatment. Utility analyses suggested that delinquents who were less likely to benefit from residential treatment could be identified a priori using a modified Psychopathy Checklist, Revised. Cost utility analysis estimated $180,000 less would be spent on residential treatment as a result of selecting residents based on the pretreatment assessment. This money might be reallocated toward alternative intervention for delinquents who are not likely to benefit from the residential treatment. More importantly, results suggested specific alternative interventions for the delinquents who were less likely to benefit from the treatment by providing direct links to existing literature. Advantages of utility analysis research include strong external validity, minimal interference with treatment during data collection, results that estimate clinical and practical significance, and results that are easily communicated to laymen.
Effect of membrane composition on cytokine production and clinical symptoms during hemodialysis: a crossover study.	Intradialytic symptoms including hypotension have been reported during dialysis and it has been suggested that these are related to the release of cytokines like IL-1beta and TNFalpha by blood mononuclear cells when they get activated either due to contact with the dialyzer membrane or by compliment activation.
Improvement of clinical outcome by early nephrology referral in type II diabetics on hemodialysis.	To evaluate the influence of early nephrology referral on clinical outcome in type II diabetes mellitus patients on maintenance hemodialysis dialysis.
The effect of erythropoietin therapy and hemoglobin levels on the immune response to Engerix-B vaccination in chronic kidney disease.	Patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis have an increased risk of acquiring hepatitis B infection. Only 43-66% of dialysis patients develop effective anti-HBs titers after vaccination.
Internet over-users' psychological profiles: a behavior sampling analysis on internet addiction.	What kinds of psychological features do people have when they are overly involved in usage of the internet? Internet users in Korea were investigated in terms of internet over-use and related psychological profiles by the level of internet use. We used a modified Young's Internet Addiction Scale, and 13,588 users (7,878 males, 5,710 females), out of 20 million from a major portal site in Korea, participated in this study. Among the sample, 3.5% had been diagnosed as internet addicts (IA), while 18.4% of them were classified as possible internet addicts (PA). The Internet Addiction Scale showed a strong relationship with dysfunctional social behaviors. More IA tried to escape from reality than PA and Non-addicts (NA). When they got stressed out by work or were just depressed, IA showed a high tendency to access the internet. The IA group also reported the highest degree of loneliness, depressed mood, and compulsivity compared to the other groups. The IA group seemed to be more vulnerable to interpersonal dangers than others, showing an unusually close feeling for strangers. Further study is needed to investigate the direct relationship between psychological well-being and internet dependency.
Relation of mortality of primary angioplasty during acute myocardial infarction to door-to-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) time.	For primary angioplasty of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), the relation of treatment benefit and time has been debated. The present study aimed to evaluate, in a single-center cohort of patients with ST-segment elevation AMI, which time intervals were carefully and consistently measured, and the relations among ischemic time, in-hospital delays, and in-hospital survival. We included 499 patients (mean age 59 years; 80% men) who underwent successful primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) for AMI admitted < or =6 hours after symptom onset. The population was divided into tertiles with respect to time between onset of symptoms and admission, onset of symptoms to Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) grade 3 flow, and time from admission to TIMI grade 3 flow. Univariate analysis followed by multiple logistic regression was performed using the variables linked to mortality in the univariate analysis to assess the relation between predictor variables and in-hospital mortality. The in-hospital mortality rate was 3.2%. There was no significant relation between the various tertiles of time intervals and in-hospital mortality. After linear logistic regression, only age (odds ratio [OR] 1.79 per 10 years), female gender (OR 3.56), and door-to-TIMI 3 time (OR 1.27 per 15 minutes) were independently correlated with in-hospital mortality.
Role of sodium-calcium exchanger in modulating the action potential of ventricular myocytes from normal and failing hearts.	Increased Na+-Ca2+ exchange (NCX) activity in heart failure and hypertrophy may compensate for depressed sarcoplasmic reticular Ca2+ uptake, provide inotropic support through reverse-mode Ca2+ entry, and/or deplete intracellular Ca2+ stores. NCX is electrogenic and depends on Na+ and Ca2+ transmembrane gradients, making it difficult to predict its effect on the action potential (AP). Here, we examine the effect of [Na+]i on the AP in myocytes from normal and pacing-induced failing canine hearts and estimate the direction of the NCX driving force using simultaneously recorded APs and Ca2+ transients. AP duration shortened with increasing [Na+]i and was correlated with a shift in the reversal point of the NCX driving force. At [Na+]i > or =10 mmol/L, outward NCX current during the plateau facilitated repolarization, whereas at 5 mmol/L [Na+]i, NCX had a depolarizing effect, confirmed by partially inhibiting NCX with exchange inhibitory peptide. Exchange inhibitory peptide shortened the AP duration at 5 mmol/L [Na+]i and prolonged it at [Na+]i > or =10 mmol/L. With K+ currents blocked, total membrane current was outward during the late plateau of an AP clamp at 10 mmol/L [Na+]i and became inward close to the predicted reversal point for the NCX driving force. The results were reproduced using a computer model. These results indicate that NCX plays an important role in shaping the AP of the canine myocyte, helping it to repolarize at high [Na+]i, especially in the failing heart, but contributing a depolarizing, potentially arrhythmogenic, influence at low [Na+]i.
Relationship of sexuality with psychological and hormonal features in the menopausal period.	Women may experience some mental and sexual problems between the ages of 40 years and 60 years due to serious changes in the hormonal system. The aim of this study was to examine the relationships between the changes in sex hormones, sexual behaviours, depression and anxiety levels of women who were in either the premenopausal, perimenopausal or postmenopausal period. The subjects of this cross-sectional study consisted of 324 women who attended the Gynaecology and Obstetrics Out-Patient Ward of Celal Bayar University Hospital. Of this group, 37.0% (n = 124) were postmenopausal, 27.2% (n = 84) perimenopausal and 35.8% (n = 116) premenopausal. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), State and Trait Anxiety Inventories (STAI-I and II) and a questionnaire on sexual behaviour which was prepared for this study by the authors, were applied to all of the attendees and serum sex hormone levels were analyzed. Beck Depression Anxiety, STAI-I and STAI-II scores and sexual behaviours did not show any statistically significant difference among these three groups. The frequency of sexual intercourse was lower in women with high BDI scores. The rate of painful intercourse was higher in women with high STAI-I scores. The frequency of sexual intercourse, sexual desire and orgasm decreased and painful intercourse increased in women with high STAI-II scores. The frequency of sexual intercourse decreased significantly as the age or follicle stimulating hormone level of women increased. These findings have revealed that the menopausal state did not affect the sexual behaviour, and psychological state of women between the ages of 40 and 60 years, but the increase in anxiety and depression scores affected the sexual life in a negative manner.
Heart weight and heart weight/body weight ratio in a Jamaican adult autopsy population. A preliminary study.	The heart weight and heart weight/body weight (HW/BW) ratio were assessed in an adult autopsy population and compared with commonly used reference values. Examination of 127 adult post-mortem cases (80 males and 47 females, aged 17 to 91 years) revealed that the mean heart weight and the HW/BW ratios of both genders were significantly greater than the reference values, particularly so in the hypertensive patients. These findings suggest that the Jamaican adult heart is significantly heavier than values used from reference tables. In both genders, heart weight was significantly and positively correlated with body weight and body mass index but not height, for non-hypertensive and hypertensive subjects. The present data are preliminary and not comprehensive enough to establish definitive reference values for the Jamaican population. However, this information needs to be taken into consideration when making pathologic diagnoses using heart weight as a criterion in post-mortem diagnosis.
Maximum-likelihood estimation of admixture proportions from genetic data.	For an admixed population, an important question is how much genetic contribution comes from each parental population. Several methods have been developed to estimate such admixture proportions, using data on genetic markers sampled from parental and admixed populations. In this study, I propose a likelihood method to estimate jointly the admixture proportions, the genetic drift that occurred to the admixed population and each parental population during the period between the hybridization and sampling events, and the genetic drift in each ancestral population within the interval between their split and hybridization. The results from extensive simulations using various combinations of relevant parameter values show that in general much more accurate and precise estimates of admixture proportions are obtained from the likelihood method than from previous methods. The likelihood method also yields reasonable estimates of genetic drift that occurred to each population, which translate into relative effective sizes (N(e)) or absolute average N(e)'s if the times when the relevant events (such as population split, admixture, and sampling) occurred are known. The proposed likelihood method also has features such as relatively low computational requirement compared with previous ones, flexibility for admixture models, and marker types. In particular, it allows for missing data from a contributing parental population. The method is applied to a human data set and a wolflike canids data set, and the results obtained are discussed in comparison with those from other estimators and from previous studies.
Modeling of DNA microarray data by using physical properties of hybridization.	A method of analyzing DNA microarray data based on the physical modeling of hybridization is presented. We demonstrate, in experimental data, a correlation between observed hybridization intensity and calculated free energy of hybridization. Then, combining hybridization rate equations, calculated free energies of hybridization, and microarray data for known target concentrations, we construct an algorithm to compute transcript concentration levels from microarray data. We also develop a method for eliminating outlying data points identified by our algorithm. We test the efficacy of these methods by comparing our results with an existing statistical algorithm, as well as by performing a cross-validation test on our model.
Neuronal DNA damage correlates with a positive detection of c-Jun, nuclear factor kB, p53 and Par-4 transcription factors in Alzheimer's disease]	Alzheimer s disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized neuropathologically by beta amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, gliosis and neuronal loss. Recently, we have elucidated a molecular cascade of cell death induced by A beta 25 35 involving the activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF kB), p53, and c Jun transcription factors in vitro. At present, no comparative reports have been published to establish a similar cell death signalization pathway in in vitro and in in vivo. The aim of this investigation was to determine if AD brains might activate NF kB, p53, c Jun, Par 4 transcription factors and to establish whether there exist a relationship between neuronal DNA damage and transcription factors activation.
The effectiveness of computer-aided, self-instructional programs in dental education: a systematic review of the literature.	Computer-aided learning (CAL), self-instructional programs provide an accessible, interactive, and flexible way of presenting curriculum material. In order to assess the effectiveness of CAL programs in dental education, a systematic review of the published literature comparing CAL with other teaching methods was performed. A systematic search of the published literature was performed. Articles formally assessed for inclusion had to meet the following criteria: randomized controlled trials comparing CAL with any other method of instruction, and the use of academically homogeneous dental students or dental professionals with objective, predefined outcome criteria measuring performance, time spent, and attitudes. The searches located a total of 1,042 articles; of these, only twenty-seven articles met the inclusion criteria. Further quality assessment identified twelve studies that were included in the final review. Five of the studies documented statistically significant differences in outcome measures (scores on multiple choice, written or oral tests, and clinical performance) favoring CAL over comparison group(s), while six revealed no statistically significant differences. One study documented a greater improvement in test scores in the seminar group over the CAL group. Participants' attitudes towards CAL in the included studies are also discussed. Our study concluded that CAL is as effective as other methods of teaching and can be used as an adjunct to traditional education or as a means of self-instruction.
Aortic atherosclerosis detected with electron-beam CT as a predictor of obstructive coronary artery disease.	Several studies have demonstrated an association between coronary and aortic atherosclerosis. Aortic atherosclerosis is easily quantified by means of electron-beam computed tomography (CT). The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of measurement of aortic atherosclerosis with electron-beam CT as an independent predictor of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD).
Measurement of the RT interval on ECG records during electron-beam CT.	The R wave of the electrocardiogram is used widely as a trigger for cardiac imaging. This study was designed to determine the optimal interval between the R wave and end systole for triggering of electron-beam computed tomography (CT) in a group of patients with various heart rates who are undergoing assessment for coronary artery calcification.
Magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of synovial inflammation of the hindfoot in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and other polyarthritis.	To describe the localisation of synovitis and tenosynovitis of the hindfoot observed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with chronic polyarthritis, and to correlate the findings of physical examination and MRI.
Osteogenesis imperfecta in childhood: MR imaging of basilar impression.	To determine on radiographs the presence of Basilar Impression (BI) in children with Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI). To confirm this sign and altered geometrical relationships of the craniocervical junction in course of time with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Lung findings on high resolution CT in early ankylosing spondylitis.	Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease mainly affecting the axial skeleton and pulmonary involvement is a well known feature of the disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the pulmonary high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) findings of patients with early AS. The relationship between pulmonary function tests (PFT) and HRCT findings was also determined.
Negative association between smoking and anti-saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies in Crohn's disease.	Crohn's disease (CD) is a polygenic multifactorial heterogeneous disease. Anti-Saccharomyces Cerevisiae antibodies (ASCA) correlate highly with CD and are present in 50-80% of patients. The reason for ASCA positivity or negativity in CD is unknown. The aim of our work was to analyse clinical, epidemiological and genetic characteristics in ASCA+ or ASCA- CD patients.
Defining clinically meaningful change in health-related quality of life.	This article reviews current approaches to defining clinically meaningful change in health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and provides guidelines for their use. Definitions of clinically meaningful change are discussed. Two broad methods for identifying clinically meaningful change are contrasted: anchor-based methods and distribution-based methods. Anchor-based methods include cross-sectional approaches and longitudinal approaches. Distribution-based methods include those based on statistical significance, sample variability, and measurement precision. Anchor-based and distribution-based methods have advantages and limitations, and neither seems to be superior to the other. An integrated system for defining clinically meaningful change is recommended that combines anchor-based and distribution-based methods. We propose a new terminology for describing meaningful change derived from anchor-based and distribution-based methods.
Comparison of 99mTc tetrofosmin gated SPECT measurements of left ventricular volumes and ejection fraction with MRI over a wide range of values.	The calculation of ejection fraction using gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) has been widely validated against a range of other techniques. There have been fewer studies validating left ventricular volumes. We compared quantitative gated SPECT (QGS) with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of left ventricular ejection fraction and end diastolic volume in 50 patients with a large range of ventricular dimensions. MRI data were obtained using a turbo gradient echo pulse sequence (TGE) in 17 patients and a steady state free precession pulse sequence (SSFP) in 33 patients. There was good correlation between ejection fraction and end diastolic volume measurements from SPECT and MRI (r=0.82, r=0.90, respectively) but the mean SPECT values were significantly lower (ejection fraction, 6.6+/-6.4% points; end diastolic volume, 18.4+/-25.4 ml) than those obtained from MRI. Bland-Altman analysis showed some large differences in individual patients but no trends in the data either in ejection fraction over a range from 15% to 70% or in end diastolic volume, range 75-400 ml. SSFP gave a larger difference for end diastolic volume measurement compared to SPECT than did TGE, although this difference did not reach significance. Both SSFP and TGE gave similar values for the difference between MRI and SPECT for the measurement of ejection fraction. We suggest that the difference in EF may be a result of 8 frames being used for gating in QGS but 12-18 for MR. Differences in volumes may be related to the different spatial resolution and the exclusion or inclusion of trabeculation and papillary muscles between SPECT and MRI. Differences between SSFP and TGE may be caused by differing delineation of the endocardial border, dependent on the particular acquisition sequence. In conclusion, QGS values correlated well with MRI, but a correction factor may be needed if direct comparison is made.
Validation of planar and tomographic radionuclide ventriculography by a dynamic ventricular phantom.	Although there is increasing interest in the automatic processing of tomographic radionuclide ventriculography (TRV) studies, validation is mainly limited to a comparison of TRV results with data from planar radionuclide ventriculography (PRV) or gated perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The aim of this study was to use a dynamic physical cardiac phantom to validate the ejection fraction (EF) and volumes from PRV and TRV studies. A new dynamic left ventricular phantom was constructed and used to obtain 21 acquisitions in the planar and tomographic mode. The directly measured volumes and EFs of the phantom during the acquisitions were considered as the gold standard for comparison with TRV and PRV. EFs were calculated from PRV by background-corrected end-diastolic and end-systolic frames. Volumes and EFs were calculated from TRV by region growing with different lower thresholds to search for the optimal threshold. EF from PRV correlated significantly with the real EF (r=0.94, P=0.00). The optimal threshold value for volume calculation from TRV in 336 cases was 50% (r=0.98, P=0.00) yielding the best slope after linear regression. When considering these calculated end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, EF correlated well (r=0.99, P=0.00) with the real EF, and this correlation was significantly (P=0.04) higher than that of the EF from PRV. Our experiments prove that EF measured by TRV yields more accurate results compared with PRV in dynamic cardiac phantom studies.
Brain metabolism in the cerebellum and visual cortex correlates with neuropsychological testing in patients with Alzheimer's disease.	This study was designed to measure glucose metabolic deficits in areas not typically recognized as abnormal on 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scans in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and to correlate such findings with subtle neuropsychological impairment. FDG-PET scans on 38 AD patients with no clinical evidence of visual, spatial or motor deficits were acquired on the PET HEAD scanner 40 min following the intravenous administration of 115 microCi.kg-1 of FDG. All FDG-PET scans were analysed blindly using a region of interest (ROI) template with regions for the primary visual cortex (PVC), secondary visual cortex (SVC) and cerebellum. Counts from the ROIs of these regions were normalized to whole brain activity and the results were compared with psychometric and neuropsychological measures. A number of significant correlations were found between these structures and various neuropsychological measures (P<0.05). Specifically, there were significant correlations between clock drawing and the cerebellum activity; memory and activity in the PVC, SVC and cerebellum; social score and activity in the PVC and left cerebellum; judgement and activity in the right SVC and right PVC; and the overall Mini-Mental State Examination and activity in the PVC, SVC and cerebellum. The results of this study suggest that metabolism in areas not typically recognized as abnormal on FDG-PET scans in AD, such as the PVC, SVC and cerebellum, is correlated with deficits in neuropsychological function. This may have important clinical and pathophysiological implications in the study of AD and other illnesses of dementia.
Assessment of myocardial lesion size during in vitro radio frequency catheter ablation.	We report our experience with a system that utilizes changes in several biophysical characteristics of cardiac tissue to determine lesion formation and to estimate lesion size both on and off-line in vitro during radio frequency (RF) energy delivery. We analyzed the reactive and resistive components of tissue impedance and tracked the change of phase angle during RF ablation. We correlated the amount of tissue damage with these and other biophysical parameters and compared them with off-line analysis. We found that there are irreversible changes in the reactive and resistive components of impedance that occurred during tissue ablation. The irreversible changes of these components are greater in magnitude, and correlate better with the size of lesions than that of impedance alone that is currently used. Numerically, the best single on-line and off-line correlation for combined perpendicular and parallel electrode orientation was with phase angle. On-line and off-line capacitance and susceptance correlations were essentially similar suggesting that they may be useful as lesion size predictors, given these parameter's persistent change without temperature sensitivity. This study indicates that it is technically feasible to assess lesion formation using biophysical parameters.
Do the high-frequency indexes of HRV provide a faithful assessment of cardiac vagal tone? A critical theoretical evaluation.	When spectral analysis of the heart rate (HR) signal is performed, it is quite common to attribute the HF indexes of heart rate variability (HRV) to cardiac vagal control. The paradigm underlying this attribution states that changes in cardiac vagal outflow correspond to a proportional change in respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA). However, recent studies have demonstrated that variations in these indexes do not necessarily reflect proportional changes in vagal tone. The current study provides a theoretical evaluation of the relationship between mean HR, RSA, and cardiac vagal tone. This evaluation is based on a theoretical model, which quantifies the differential effects of vagal blockade by a competitive muscarinic antagonist on the HF indexes of HRV. The model relies on several assumptions that reflect the basic physiology of the sinoatrial (SA) node, as well as pharmacological relations that describe agonist/antagonist equilibrium at the SA receptors. The mathematical framework of this model is the integral-pulse-frequency-modulation (IPFM) process, and its derivations lead to a specific expressions for the dependence of HF and mean HR on the level of vagal blockade. These expressions provide a new insight into the relationship between mean HR, RSA, and vagal tone, and explain conflicting experimental results previously published.
Alcohol consumption and fatal accidents in Canada, 1950-98.	To evaluate the effects of changes in aggregate alcohol consumption on overall fatal accidents, motor vehicle accidents, fatal falling accidents and drowning accidents in Canadian provinces after 1950.
Estimation of tobacco- or alcohol-attributable disease rates in national hospital care: an approach based on routine in-patient disease register data and systematic diagnosis of alcohol use disorders.	The goal of this paper was to estimate and compare the numbers and rates of tobacco- or alcohol-attributable disease (TAAD) in in-patient-treated cases in a high tobacco smoking and alcohol consumption country, based on different estimates.
Eletriptan metabolism by human hepatic CYP450 enzymes and transport by human P-glycoprotein.	"Reaction phenotyping" studies were performed with eletriptan (ETT) to determine its propensity to interact with coadministered medications. Its ability to serve as a substrate for human P-glycoprotein (P-gp) was also investigated since a central mechanism of action has been proposed for this "triptan" class of drug. In studies with a characterized bank of human liver microsome preparations, a good correlation (r2 = 0.932) was obtained between formation of N-desmethyl eletriptan (DETT) and CYP3A4-catalyzed testosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation. DETT was selected to be monitored in our studies since it represents a significant ETT metabolite in humans, circulating at concentrations 10 to 20% of those observed for parent drug. ETT was metabolized to DETT by recombinant CYP2D6 (rCYP2D6) and rCYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by rCYP2C9 and rCYP2C19. The metabolism of ETT to DETT in human liver microsomes was markedly inhibited by troleandomycin, erythromycin, miconazole, and an inhibitory antibody to CYP3A4, but not by inhibitors of other major P450 enzymes. ETT had little inhibitory effect on any of the P450 enzymes investigated. ETT was determined to be a good substrate for human P-gp in vitro. In bidirectional transport studies across LLC-MDR1 and LLC-Mdr1a cell monolayers, ETT had a BA/AB transport ratio in the range 9 to 11. This finding had significance in vivo since brain exposure to ETT was reduced 40-fold in Mdr1a+/+ relative to Mdr1a-/- mice. ETT metabolism to DETT is therefore catalyzed primarily by CYP3A4, and plasma concentrations are expected to be increased when coadministered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 and P-gp activity.
In vitro metabolism of clindamycin in human liver and intestinal microsomes.	Incubations with human liver and gut microsomes revealed that the antibiotic, clindamycin, is primarily oxidized to form clindamycin sulfoxide. In this report, evidence is presented that the S-oxidation of clindamycin is primarily mediated by CYP3A. This conclusion is based upon several lines of in vitro evidence, including the following. 1) Incubations with clindamycin in hepatic microsomes from a panel of human donors showed that clindamycin sulfoxide formation correlated with CYP3A-catalyzed testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activity; 2) coincubation with ketaconazole, a CYP3A4-specific inhibitor, markedly inhibited clindamycin S-oxidase activity; and 3) when clindamycin was incubated across a battery of recombinant heterologously expressed human cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes, CYP3A4 possessed the highest clindamycin S-oxidase activity. A potential role for flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs) in clindamycin S-oxidation in human liver was also evaluated. Formation of clindamycin sulfoxide in human liver microsomes was unaffected either by heat pretreatment or by chemical inhibition (e.g., methimazole). Furthermore, incubations with recombinant FMO isoforms revealed no detectable activity toward the formation of clindamycin sulfoxide. Beyond identifying the drug-metabolizing enzyme responsible for clindamycin S-oxidation, the ability of clindamycin to inhibit six human P450 enzymes was also evaluated. Of the P450 enzymes examined, only the activity of CYP3A4 was inhibited (approximately 26%) by coincubation with clindamycin (100 microM). Thus, it is concluded that CYP3A4 appears to account for the largest proportion of the observed P450 catalytic clindamycin S-oxidase activity in vitro, and this activity may be extrapolated to the in vivo condition.
A comparison between real-time polymerase chain reaction and hybrid capture 2 for human papillomavirus DNA quantitation.	Studies investigating human papillomavirus (HPV) viral load as a risk factor in the development of squamous intraepithelial lesions (SILs) and cancer have often yielded conflicting results. These studies used a variety of HPV viral quantitation assays [including the commercially available hybrid capture 2 (HC 2) assay], which differ in their ability to account for differences in cervical cell collection, linear dynamic range of viral load quantitation, and determination of type-specific versus cumulative viral load measures. HPV-16 and HPV-18 viral quantitation using real-time PCR assays were performed to determine whether type-specific viral load measurements that adjust for specimen cellularity result in a different association between viral load and prevalent SIL and cancer, compared with HC 2 quantitation (which does not adjust for cellularity or multiple infections). In general, HPV-16 viral load as measured by real-time PCR increased linearly with increasing grade of SIL while HPV-18 measured using similar techniques increased through low-grade SIL (LSIL), with HPV-18 viral load among high-grade SIL and cancers near the level of cytologically normal women. HC 2 viral load, using the clinical 1.0 pg/ml cut point, differentiated cytologically normal women from women with any level of cytological abnormality (normal versus >/=LSIL) but did not change as lesion severity increased. There was no evidence for plateau of HC 2 at high copy numbers, nor was significant variability in total specimen cellularity observed. However, cumulative viral load measurements by HC 2, in the presence of multiple coinfections, overestimated type-specific viral load. Multiple infections were more common among women with no (32%) or LSIL (51%) [versus 23% in high-grade SIL/cancer], partially explaining the lack of a dose response using a cumulative HC2 viral load measure. The nonrandom distribution of multiple infections by case-control status and the apparent differential effect of viral load by genotype warrant caution when using HC 2 measurements to infer viral load associations with SIL and cancer.
Issues in the epidemiological analysis and interpretation of intermediate biomarkers.	We critically reviewed the validity and interpretation of two analytical approaches that have been used in the molecular epidemiological literature to investigate the role of gene-environment (GxE) interactions in disease (D) causation. Several studies have attempted to use biomarkers of biologically effective dose (BBED) such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-DNA and alfatoxin-albumin adducts to assess possible GxE interactions. To truly determine whether BBED results from a GxE interaction that is causally implicated in disease development would require data on G, E, BBED, and D, and thus far, few studies have had data on each of these components. In the absence of data on an antecedent E, one approach has been to assess interactions between G and BBED on D and to interpret the results as providing information on the presence of GxE interactions. In the absence of data on G, another approach has been to control for E in analyses of BBED and D and to interpret nonnull risk estimates for BBED as reflecting the role of G. We show that neither approach is valid. Analyses of interactions between G and BBED cannot be used to draw conclusions about the presence or absence of GxE interactions. Similarly, analyses of BBED and D, controlling for E, do not provide insight into the role of G. We discuss how differences in the risk estimate for BBED, with and without control for E may be interpreted.
Urinary phytoestrogen excretion and breast cancer risk: evaluating potential effect modifiers endogenous estrogens and anthropometrics.	Steroid sex hormones play a central role in breast carcinogenesis. Evidence from in vitro and animal studies suggests that phytoestrogens may inhibit the development of mammary tumors through their role in regulating the synthesis, metabolism, and signal transduction of steroid hormones. In a study of 117 case-control pairs of postmenopausal women in Shanghai, we investigated whether the association between urinary phytoestrogen excretion and breast cancer risk may differ by levels of endogenous steroid sex hormones, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), body mass index (BMI), and waist:hip ratio (WHR). Fasting morning blood and urine samples were collected for the analysis of urinary isoflavonoids and mammalian lignans, as well as blood levels of SHBG and selected steroid hormones. For cancer patients, samples were collected before any cancer therapy. Conditional logistic regression models were used to estimate odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals after adjusting for potential confounding factors. The inverse associations between urinary phytoestrogens and breast cancer risk were found to be more evident among women with a high BMI or WHR than those with a low level of these anthropometric measurements. Although a reduced risk of breast cancer was observed among women with a high excretion rate of urinary isoflavonoids in all of the strata defined by blood SHBG and steroid hormones, the inverse association was more pronounced among women with a high blood concentration of estradiol, a low level of estrone sulfate, or a low level of SHBG. The risks of breast cancer were also reduced with increasing excretion rate of mammalian lignans, although no test for a linear association was statistically significant in stratified analyses. Findings from this study suggest that the potential protective association of phytoestrogens may be modified by BMI, WHR, and blood levels of SHBG, and steroid hormones.
Nonsmoking-related arylamine exposure and bladder cancer risk.	Roughly one-half of bladder cancer incidence in the United States can be attributed to known causes, mainly cigarette smoking, and it has been hypothesized that the aromatic amines in tobacco smoke are important etiological agents. Nonsmokers are also exposed, through unknown sources, to many of the same carcinogenic aromatic amines that are present in cigarette smoke. Previous epidemiological studies have not tested whether either of these aromatic amine exposures are associated with cancer risk. We conducted a population-based case-control study in Los Angeles County, California, involving 761 case patients with bladder cancer and 770 individually matched control subjects. In-person interviews provided information on tobacco smoking and other potential risk factors. Quantitative analysis of hemoglobin adducts of 4- and 3-aminobiphenyl (ABP) was used to assess aromatic amine exposure. Adducts of both aminobiphenyls were significantly higher in cases than in controls, independent of cigarette smoking at the time of blood collection and lifetime smoking history. Adjustment for other risk factors as well as for metabolic differences did not materially alter the associations. Our findings strengthen the connection between exposure to aromatic amines in tobacco smoke and cigarette smoking-related bladder cancer and suggest that environmental exposure to arylamines may account for a significant proportion of nonsmoking-related bladder cancer in the general population.
Maté consumption and the risk of squamous cell esophageal cancer in uruguay.	A retrospective hospital-based case-control study was carried out at the Oncology Institute of Montevideo, Uruguay, to investigate the role of maté consumption in esophageal cancer risk. The study included 344 cases with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus and 469 controls recruited between January 1988 and August 2000. Maté consumption was significantly associated with an increased risk of developing esophageal cancer and showed a clear dose response, with a relative risk of 2.84 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.41-5.73] for those drinking more than 1 liter/day of maté as compared with nondrinkers. Subjects who self-reported drinking maté at a very hot temperature had an almost 2-fold increase in risk [odds ratio (OR), 1.87; 95% CI, 1.17-3.00] compared with those drinking warm to hot maté, after adjusting for cumulative consumption of maté. Maté amount and temperature were observed to have independent effects and, although no departure from multiplicativity was observed between the two covariates, those drinking more than 1 liter/day of maté at a very hot temperature had a 3-fold increase in risk (OR, 2.95; 95% CI, 1.30-6.74) compared with those drinking less than 0.5 liter/day of maté at a warm to hot temperature. Subjects with high cumulative exposure to maté in the presence of low alcohol and tobacco exposures presented a lower-risk estimate (OR, 1.52; 95% CI, 0.88-2.62), whereas those with high cumulative exposures to maté, alcohol, and tobacco presented a 7-fold increase in esophageal cancer risk (OR, 7.10; 95% CI, 3.75-13.46). The population-attributable fraction as a result of maté consumption was calculated to be 53%, of which the sole effect of amount and temperature was 14.8 and 12.6% respectively, and 14.9% was attributable to high maté consumption at high temperature.
Laryngeal cancer in women: tobacco, alcohol, nutritional, and hormonal factors.	Laryngeal cancer is the neoplasm with the largest male to female sex ratio in most populations. Thus, inadequate data are available on women. We analyzed several risk factors in the combined dataset from two case-control studies conducted between 1986 and 2000 in northern Italy and Switzerland. Cases were 68 women under age 79 years, with incident, histologically confirmed cancer of the larynx. Controls were 340 women, admitted to the same network of hospitals as cases, for acute, nonmalignant conditions, unrelated to tobacco and alcohol consumption. Odds ratios (ORs) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated by logistic regression models, conditioned by age, study center and year of interview, and including terms for education, body mass index, tobacco, alcohol drinking, and nonalcohol energy intake. Laryngeal cancer was strongly associated with cigarette smoking (OR = 435.7, 95% CI: 38.2-4964.4 for smokers of >/=25 cigarettes/day) and alcohol drinking (OR = 4.3, 95% CI: 0.8-24.1 for >/=5 drinks/day). An inverse relation was found for vegetables (OR = 0.3, 95% CI: 0.1-0.9 for the highest level of consumption), fruit (OR = 0.5, 95% CI: 0.2-1.3), and olive oil (OR = 0.3, 95% CI: 0.1-0.9). Reproductive and hormonal factors were not consistently associated to laryngeal cancer risk. This investigation, based on a uniquely large number of laryngeal cancers in women, provides definite evidence that cigarette smoking is the prominent risk factor for laryngeal cancer in women, accounting for 78% of cases in this population. Alcohol and selected dietary aspects account for approximately 30% of cases, whereas menstrual and hormonal factors do not appear to have a consistent role in laryngeal carcinogenesis.
The association between lung and prostate cancer risk, and serum micronutrients: results and lessons learned from beta-carotene and retinol efficacy trial.	beta-Carotene and Retinol Efficacy Trial is a nationwide chemoprevention trial that recruited 18,314 high-risk individuals to test the effect of supplemental beta-carotene and retinol on lung cancer incidence. In this report, we conducted a prospective nested case-control study of the association between serum carotenoids, retinoids, and tocopherols on both lung and prostate cancer incidence. Prerandomization serum samples were selected from 278 lung cancer cases and 205 prostate cancer cases, and 483 controls matched by high-risk population, study center location, age, sex (lung cancer only), smoking status, and year of randomization. Carotenoids, retinoids, and tocopherols were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Endpoints were confirmed by pathology review (lung cancer) or review of the pathology report (prostate cancer). In the control-only population, there was a significant association between tobacco use and serum micronutrient concentration. Current smokers compared with former smokers had lower mean levels of all of the micronutrients tested with zeaxanthin, beta-cryptoxanthin, alpha-carotene, alpha-tocopherol, retinol, and retinyl palmitate reaching statistical significance at P = 0.05. In the overall population, the mean serum concentrations of all of the micronutrients except gamma-tocopherol were lower for lung cancer cases than controls. Statistically significant trends across quartiles were observed in lutein (P = 0.02), zeaxanthin (P = 0.02), and alpha-tocopherol (P = 0.03). The carotenoid findings in the overall population were because of the strong inverse association between serum micronutrients and lung cancer in females. Statistically significant odds ratios (ORs) comparing 4(th) to 1st quartiles in the female population were seen in lutein [OR, 0.31; confidence interval (CI), 0.13-0.75], zeaxanthin (OR, 0.31; CI, 0.12-0.77), and beta-cryptoxanthin (OR, 0.34; CI, 0.14-0.81). For prostate cancer, mean serum concentrations were lower in cases for all of the nutrients except alpha-carotene. Only for alpha-tocopherol (P(trend) = 0.04) were the findings statistically significant. There was no statistically significant association between serum carotenoids and prostate cancer. Our findings provide additional support for the association between physiological levels of dietary micronutrients and cancer incidence.
Glutathione S-transferase M1, T1, and P1 polymorphisms and survival among lung cancer patients.	Glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes detoxify therapeutic drugs and reactive oxidants, so GST polymorphisms may influence survival after diagnosis of cancer. We evaluated survival according to GST polymorphisms in a population-based series of lung cancer patients. The study subjects (n = 274) were men diagnosed with lung cancer from 1993 through 1996 who participated in a case control study and provided a blood sample for genotyping. The presence of the GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes were assayed by multiplex PCR. Genotype at the GSTP1 Ile(105)Val substitution was determined by PCR and oligonucleotide ligation assay. The study subjects were followed for vital status through 2000, and overall survival was evaluated in Kaplan-Meier survival functions and Cox proportional hazards models. Subjects with the GSTM1 null genotype had shorter survival; the proportion of GSTM1 null subjects surviving at 5 years was 0.20 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.14-0.27], compared with 0.29 (95% CI 0.22-0.37) for GSTM1 present subjects. The relative risk of death associated with GSTM1 null genotype, adjusted for stage at diagnosis and histology, was 1.36, 95% CI 1.04-1.80. There was no association between GSTT1 or GSTP1 genotype and survival in the overall study population, nor in a subgroup of patients treated with chemotherapy (n = 130). For GSTM1, our results are consistent with a previous study, which also observed that the GSTM1-null genotype, which confers susceptibility to lung cancer, was associated with shorter survival. Future studies of lung cancer survival should take into account GSTM1 genotype as well as investigate underlying mechanisms.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and risk of adult leukemia.	Epidemiological studies have suggested that regular use of aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may be associated with reduced risk of some types of malignancy. Leukemia incidence and self-reported aspirin, as well as other NSAID use, was examined in a prospective cohort of >28,000 postmenopausal women. Eighty-one incident leukemia cases occurred during the period 1993-2000. The multivariate-adjusted relative risk of leukemia was 0.45 (95% confidence interval: 0.27-0.75) for women who reported using aspirin two or more times per week compared with women who reported no use. Similar inverse associations were observed for the two subtypes of leukemia analyzed. In contrast, for women who reported using nonaspirin NSAIDs, the multivariate-adjusted relative risk of leukemia was 1.31 (95% confidence interval: 0.77-2.22). Analyses that excluded cases diagnosed before 1995 did not notably alter results. To our knowledge, this is the first prospective study to examine the association between NSAID use and incident adult leukemia. Although preliminary, the notable differences observed in leukemia risk between aspirin and nonaspirin NSAID use warrant further investigation.
Formation of DNA adducts and induction of lacI mutations in Big Blue Rat-2 cells treated with temozolomide: implications for the treatment of low-grade adult and pediatric brain tumors.	Temozolomide (TMZ) is a chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of high-grade brain tumors. Treatment of patients with alkylating chemotherapeutic agents has been established to increase their risk for acute myelogenous leukemia. The formation of DNA adducts and induction of mutations are likely to play a role in the etiology of therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia. To evaluate this issue for TMZ, we have measured the formation of DNA adducts and induction of lacI mutations in Big Blue Rat-2 cells treated with TMZ. Treatment of Big Blue Rat-2 cells with either 0, 0.5, or 1 mM TMZ resulted in lacI mutant frequencies of 9.1 +/- 2.9 x 10(-5), 48.9 +/- 12 x 10(-5), and 89.7 +/- 40.3 x 10(-5), respectively. Comparison of the mutant frequencies demonstrated that 0.5 and 1 mM TMZ treatments increased the mutant frequencies by 5.3- and 9.8-fold and that this increase was significant (P < 0.001). Sequence analysis of the lacI mutants from the TMZ treatment group demonstrated that they were GC-->AT transitions at non-CpG sites, which is significantly different from the mutation spectrum observed in the control treatment group. Treatment of Big Blue Rat-2 cells with various concentrations of TMZ produced a linear increase in the levels of N7-methylguanine and O(6)-methylguanine. The lacI mutation spectrum induced by TMZ treatment is consistent with these mutations being produced by O(6)-MeG. This study establishes TMZ has significant mutagenic potential and suggests that careful consideration in the use of TMZ for the treatment of low-grade adult and pediatric brain tumors should be given.
Correlates of mammogram density in southwestern Native-American women.	Little is known about the breast cancer risk factors or mammogram characteristics among Native-American women. Southwestern Native-American women have a low risk of breast cancer and a high risk of diabetes. Our purpose was to determine the prevalence of known clinical risk factors for breast cancer and their association with mammogram density in a sample of Southwestern Native-American women undergoing breast cancer screening. A retrospective review was performed of screening mammogram examinations in 455 women. Density was classified by American College of Radiology Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BIRADS) density patterns 1 to 4 (fat to dense). Clinical data including patient age, weight, body mass index, parity, lactation, age at first birth, menopause status, hormone replacement therapy, diabetes status, and family history of breast cancer were obtained. Multivariate analyses were performed. Among the entire group, 152 women (33.4%) had diabetes. Patient age (P = 0.0012), weight (P < 0.0001), menopause status (P = 0.0134), estrogen use (P = 0.0311), age at first birth (P = 0.0035), and diabetes (P = 0.0015) were associated with mammogram density. Diabetes was associated with mammogram density in premenopausal women (P = 0.0032) but not in postmenopausal women (P = 0.3178) in stratified analyses. Diabetes, hormone replacement therapy, age, weight, menopause status, parity, and age at first birth were significantly associated with mammogram density. The association of mammogram density with diabetes varied by menopause status and was significant only for premenopausal women.
Vitamin C intake and apoptosis in normal rectal epithelium.	Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, may lower the risk of neoplasia by removing genetically damaged or mutated cells. A high rate of apoptosis has been linked to a reduced risk of colorectal adenomas; therefore, it is important to understand factors that impact apoptosis. Antioxidants (e.g., vitamin C) protect cells from harmful oxidation processes but may interfere with apoptosis by protecting genetically damaged cells from reactive oxygen species-dependent cell death. The objective of this study was to evaluate the association between vitamin C intake and apoptosis in normal rectal mucosa. Study participants were part of a large, cross-sectional study, the Diet and Health Study III. Participants were recruited from consecutive, consenting patients who underwent colonoscopy at University of North Carolina Hospitals between August 1, 1998 and March 4, 2000. Vitamin C intake, obtained from a food frequency questionnaire, included both dietary sources and vitamin supplements. Apoptosis was measured by morphological evaluation of H&E-stained sections obtained from pinch biopsy samples of normal rectal mucosa in consenting participants (n = 503). The relationship between vitamin C and apoptosis varied by adenoma status. Among individuals with adenomas, there was an inverse linear association between apoptosis and total vitamin C intake. Similarly, individuals with adenomas in the highest quintile of total vitamin C intake were substantially less likely than those in the lowest quintile to have increased colonic apoptosis (odds ratio, 0.05; 95% confidence interval, 0.01-0.46). Vitamin C was not significantly associated with apoptosis in adenoma-free patients. High vitamin C intake was associated with reduced colorectal apoptosis among individuals with adenomas in this study population. Given that high apoptosis may lower colorectal cancer risk, vitamin C supplements may be contraindicated for patients with a history of adenomas.
Association between two polymorphisms in the SRD5A2 gene and serum androgen concentrations in British men.	Androgens are essential for the growth of the prostate gland and have been implicated in the development of prostate cancer. Little is known about the determinants of androgen levels in men, although observed ethnic differences suggest they may have a genetic basis. Several polymorphisms have been identified in the steroid 5 alpha-reductase type II gene (SRD5A2), which encodes an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of testosterone to its more potent metabolite, dihydrotestosterone. Although some of these polymorphisms have been associated with increased prostate cancer risk, the association with circulating androgen levels remains unclear. The purpose of this study is to investigate the association between the (TA)(n) dinucleotide repeat polymorphism in the 3' untranslated region and the A49T polymorphism (which replaces the normal alanine with threonine at codon 49) in the SRD5A2 gene and serum androgen concentrations in 604 British men. In particular, we wanted to test the hypotheses that the variant alleles are associated with an increased serum concentration of androstanediol glucuronide, a direct metabolite of dihydrotestosterone and a serum marker of 5 alpha-reductase activity. Mean hormone concentrations were evaluated in each genotype, and adjusted for age and other relevant factors. We found no evidence that the SRD5A2 (TA)(n) repeat polymorphism was associated with androgen levels. Men who possessed one or two copies of the variant T allele in the A49T polymorphism had a significantly 24% lower androstanediol glucuronide concentration than men who were homozygous for the wild-type allele (P = 0.0003). Because of the rarity of this variant allele, larger studies are needed to additionally clarify the role of the A49T polymorphism in androgen metabolism.
Untreated periodontal disease: a follow-up on 30 cases.	Many studies have shown that periodontal disease can be successfully treated. However, there is limited documentation as to what happens when periodontal disease is left untreated. This study examined patients in a private practice who were diagnosed with periodontal disease and did not complete any treatment. The goal was to see what happened to this group of untreated patients.
Radiation doses in interventional radiology procedures: the RAD-IR study: part I: overall measures of dose.	To determine patient radiation doses for interventional radiology and neuroradiology procedures, to identify procedures associated with higher radiation doses, and to determine the effects of various parameters on patient doses.
Abnormal blood glucose concentrations on admission to a rural Kenyan district hospital: prevalence and outcome.	To determine the prevalence, clinical characteristics, and outcome of hypoglycaemia on admission in children at a rural Kenyan district hospital.
Methylation target array for rapid analysis of CpG island hypermethylation in multiple tissue genomes.	Hypermethylation of multiple CpG islands is a common event in cancer. To assess the prognostic values of this epigenetic alteration, we developed Methylation Target Array (MTA), derived from the concept of tissue microarray, for simultaneous analysis of DNA hypermethylation in hundreds of tissue genomes. In MTA, linker-ligated CpG island fragments were digested with methylation-sensitive endonucleases and amplified with flanking primers. A panel of 468 MTA amplicons, which represented the whole repertoire of methylated CpG islands in 93 breast tumors, 20 normal breast tissues, and 4 breast cancer cell lines, were arrayed on nylon membrane for probe hybridization. Positive hybridization signals detected in tumor amplicons, but not in normal amplicons, were indicative of aberrant hypermethylation in tumor samples. This is attributed to aberrant sites that were protected from methylation-sensitive restriction and were amplified by PCR in tumor samples, while the same sites were restricted and could not be amplified in normal samples. Hypermethylation frequencies of the 10 genes tested in breast tumors and cancer cell lines were 60% for GPC3, 58% for RASSF1A, 32% for 3OST3B, 30% for HOXA5, 28% for uPA, 25% for WT1, 23% for BRCA1, 9% for DAPK1, and 0% for KL. Furthermore, hypermethylation of 5 to 7 loci of these genes was significantly correlated with hormone receptor status, clinical stages, and ages at diagnosis of the patients analyzed. This novel approach thus provides an additional avenue for assessing clinicopathological consequences of DNA hypermethylation in breast cancer.
C-reactive protein activates complement in infarcted human myocardium.	Circulating levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) constitute a cardiovascular risk marker. Immunohistochemical studies have revealed co-localization of CRP and activated complement in human infarcted myocardium suggesting CRP to enhance inflammation in ischemic myocardium by inducing local complement activation. The aim was to establish whether CRP activates complement in infarcted human myocardium and to assess the relationship between this activation and the duration of infarction. Myocardial tissue samples from 56 patients that had died from acute myocardial infarction were evaluated. Specimens were taken from infarcted as well as noninfarcted sites of the heart. CRP-mediated complement activation was assessed by immunohistochemistry and by measuring levels of complement, CRP, and CRP-complement complexes, specific markers for CRP-mediated activation, in homogenates of the heart. Infarctions of 12 hours to 5 days had significantly more extensive depositions of complement and CRP and contained significantly more CRP, activated complement, and CRP-complement complexes than infarctions that were less than 12 hours old. Levels of CRP complexes correlated significantly with CRP and complement concentrations in the infarctions, as well as with the extent of complement and CRP depositions as measured via immunohistochemistry. Specific activation products of CRP-mediated activation of complement are increased in infarcts of more than 12 hours in duration and correlate with the extent of complement depositions. Hence, CRP seems to enhance local inflammatory reactions ensuing in human myocardial infarcts of more than 12 hours duration.
A metabolic imaging severity rating scale for the assessment of cognitive impairment.	This study was designed to validate a simple scoring system for evaluating fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomographic (PET) scans that can be used routinely in patients undergoing the clinical assessment of cognitive impairment.
Tuberculosis risk varies with the duration of HIV infection: a prospective study of European drug users with known date of HIV seroconversion.	It is not known whether the risk of active tuberculosis disease varies with the length of time that individuals are infected with HIV.
Methods of estimation of IC50 and SC50 parameters for indirect response models from single dose data.	The basic indirect response models are described by several pharmacodynamic parameters of which IC(50) (drug concentration eliciting 50% of the maximum inhibition) and SC(50) (drug concentration eliciting 50% of the maximum stimulation) are not readily derived from the response versus time or response versus concentration plots. We discuss limitations of existing methods of IC(50) and SC(50) estimation from single dose data. A novel approach to such estimations based on the area between the baseline and effect curve is introduced. The effects of pharmacokinetic profile, dose, data variability, and number of data on the parameter estimation are analyzed for the new and one of the previously described methods. Our analysis is based on reconstruction of true IC(50) and SC(50) values from rich and sparse computer-generated data sets modified by two noise levels. Extensions of these methods to two dose data sets are presented. Both methods yielded IC(50) and SC(50) close to the known true values. Depending on the factors mentioned above, these methods exhibited different levels of accuracy.
Transforming growth factor beta and diastolic left ventricular dysfunction after heart transplantation: echocardiographic and histologic evidence.	The mechanism for chronic left ventricular diastolic dysfunction in the non-rejecting cardiac allograft has not been fully studied.
Recent improvements in outcome with the Novacor left ventricular assist device.	The Novacor implantable, electrically powered, wearable, left ventricular assist device (LVAD) has been used as a bridge to transplantation at our institution since 1994. Recent changes in protocol have resulted in a decreased incidence of infections, thromboembolism, and mortality.
Hope, mood states and quality of life in female heart transplant recipients.	The role of hope on mood states and quality of life (QOL) in heart transplant recipients has not been examined previously. This exploratory study was done to describe levels of hope, mood states and QOL; examine relationships between these variables and demographic characteristics; and identify predictors of QOL in female heart transplant recipients.
Quilty lesions are associated with increased expression of vitronectin receptor (alphavbeta3) and subsequent development of coronary vasculopathy.	Quilty lesions are common after heart transplantation; however, their relationship to vasculopathy has not been described. We tested the hypothesis that Quilty lesions are associated with increased expression of vitronectin receptor (alphavbeta3) and the subsequent development of coronary vasculopathy.
Enhancing interaural-delay-based extents of laterality at high frequencies by using "transposed stimuli".	An acoustic pointing task was used to determine whether interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) conveyed by high-frequency "transposed" stimuli would produce larger extents of laterality than ITDs conveyed by bands of high-frequency Gaussian noise. The envelopes of transposed stimuli are designed to provide high-frequency channels with information similar to that conveyed by the waveforms of low-frequency stimuli. Lateralization was measured for low-frequency Gaussian noises, the same noises transposed to 4 kHz, and high-frequency Gaussian bands of noise centered at 4 kHz. Extents of laterality obtained with the transposed stimuli were greater than those obtained with bands of Gaussian noise centered at 4 kHz and, in some cases, were equivalent to those obtained with low-frequency stimuli. In a second experiment, the general effects on lateral position produced by imposed combinations of bandwidth, ITD, and interaural phase disparities (IPDs) on low-frequency stimuli remained when those stimuli were transposed to 4 kHz. Overall, the data were fairly well accounted for by a model that computes the cross-correlation subsequent to known stages of peripheral auditory processing augmented by low-pass filtering of the envelopes within the high-frequency channels of each ear.
Association between infections and signs and symptoms of 'atopic' hypersensitivity--results of a cross-sectional survey among first-year university students in Germany and Spain.	This study assessed the hypothesis that a decreased exposure to childhood infectious diseases is associated with signs and symptoms of 'atopic' hypersensitivity diseases.
Epidemiologic evidence of a relationship between airway hyperresponsiveness and exposure to polluted air.	There has been an increase in allergic diseases as a result of increased air pollution emanating from traffic and various industries.
In utero exposure to lead and cord blood total IgE. Is there a connection?	Lead exposure and total immunoglobulin E (IgE) have been shown to be positively related in animals and humans even at lead levels below those recognized as toxic. In the last decades, exposure to lead has become more frequent in urban areas of industrialized as well as of developing countries where IgE-mediated allergy prevalence has also increased.
Cc-chemokine eotaxin as a marker of efficacy of specific immunotherapy in patients with intermittent IgE-mediated allergic rhinoconjunctivitis.	Allergen-specific immunotherapy (SIT) is believed to be a valuable remedy in several allergic diseases; however, an accurate immunological marker of the efficacy of this treatment method has not been found yet. Cc-chemokine eotaxin, owing to its selective action on eosinophils, seems to play an important role in the pathophysiology of allergic response. The purpose of this study was to assess the usefulness of eotaxin in monitoring of SIT efficacy in patients with IgE-mediated allergic rhinoconjunctivitis.
Rhinoconjunctivitis, bronchial responsiveness, and atopy as determinants for incident non-work-related asthma symptoms in apprentices exposed to high-molecular-weight allergens.	The aim of this study was to explore the role of rhinoconjunctivitis (RC), taking into account atopy and the level of bronchial responsiveness to methacholine, on the incidence of respiratory symptoms and in the development and/or worsening of asthma.
Evaluation of asthma knowledge and quality of life in Hungarian asthmatics.	The objective was to develop an educational instrument, to assess its impact as an intervention instrument and to examine quality of life (QoL).
The prevalence of IgE sensitization to formaldehyde in asthmatic children.	Formaldehyde (FA) is well documented as a cause of occupational asthma. Recently, attention has been paid to FA as an allergen and a pollutant that enhances allergic sensitization. We have investigated the prevalence of FA-specific IgE in asthmatic children and the correlation between IgE sensitization to FA and the severity of asthma.
C-reactive protein: associations with haematological variables, cardiovascular risk factors and prevalent cardiovascular disease.	C-reactive protein (CRP) has been proposed as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease; however, this association is confounded by mutual relationships with both classical and haematological cardiovascular risk factors. We, therefore, measured CRP with a high-sensitivity assay in stored plasma samples from 414 men and 515 women in the north Glasgow MONICA (MONItoring trends in CArdiovascular diseases) survey, to study its correlation with haematological variables, classical risk factors and prevalent cardiovascular disease. CRP correlated with age, oral contraceptive use, menopause and most classical cardiovascular risk factors (except blood pressure). CRP also correlated with plasma levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin 6, and haematocrit, viscosity, red cell aggregation, white cell count, and coagulation factors [fibrinogen, factor (F) VII in women, FVIII, FIX] and inhibitors (antithrombin and protein C in women; protein S) but not coagulation activation markers. CRP was significantly associated with prevalent cardiovascular disease in both men (P = 0.03) and women (P = 0.009), however, the association became non-significant after adjustment for firstly classical risk factors, then fibrinogen. We conclude that correlations with classical and haematological risk factors account for a substantial component of the association of CRP with prevalent cardiovascular disease, but there is evidence of a residual, independent effect among women.
Three monophyletic superfamilies account for the majority of the known glycosyltransferases.	Sixty-five families of glycosyltransferases (EC 2.4.x.y) have been recognized on the basis of high-sequence similarity to a founding member with experimentally demonstrated enzymatic activity. Although distant sequence relationships between some of these families have been reported, the natural history of glycosyltransferases is poorly understood. We used iterative searches of sequence databases, motif extraction, structural comparison, and analysis of completely sequenced genomes to track the origins of modern-type glycosyltransferases. We show that >75% of recognized glycosyltransferase families belong to one of only three monophyletic superfamilies of proteins, namely, (1) a recently described GPGTF/GT-B superfamily; (2) a nucleoside-diphosphosugar transferase (GT-A) superfamily, which is characterized by a DxD sequence signature and also includes nucleotidyltransferases; and (3) a GT-C superfamily of integral membrane glycosyltransferases with a modified DxD signature in the first extracellular loop. Several developmental regulators in Metazoans, including Fringe and Egghead homologs, belong to the second superfamily. Interestingly, Tout-velu/Exostosin family of developmental proteins found in all multicellular eukaryotes, contains separate domains belonging to the first and the second superfamilies, explaining multiple glycosyltransferase activities in one protein.
Plasma viral load, CD4 cell percentage, HLA and survival of HIV-1, HIV-2, and dually infected Gambian patients.	To examine baseline plasma viral loads according to the CD4 cell percentage (CD4%) in HIV-1, HIV-2 and dually infected patients (HIV-D), and to relate these measurements to survival.
Expression of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins C/EBPalpha, C/EBPbeta and C/EBPdelta in breast cancer: correlations with clinicopathologic parameters and cell-cycle regulatory proteins.	Members of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) family of transcription factors are involved in the regulation of proliferation and differentiation of the mammary gland. In order to investigate the role of C/EBPalpha, -beta and -delta in breast cancer, we performed western blot analysis and partly immunohistochemistry in 75 mammary carcinomas, 10 normal mammary tissue samples and four mammary cell lines. Expression levels of both C/EBPalpha isoforms, C/EBPbeta isoforms LAP1, LAP2 (liver-enriched transcriptional activating proteins), and LIP (liver-enriched transcriptional inhibitory protein), and C/EBPdelta in the tumors were correlated with clinicopathological tumor parameters, expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors (ER, PR), Ki67 immunostaining, and expression of seven cell-cycle regulatory proteins which had been analyzed before. High C/EBPalpha and -delta protein levels correlated significantly with expression of cell-cycle promoters (cyclin D1 and E) and cell-cycle inhibitory proteins (Rb, p27, p16), but with none of the established prognostic parameters. In contrast, statistically significant relationships of the full-length C/EBPbeta isoform LAP1 and a negative estrogen receptor status, high grading, nodal involvement, and high cyclin E and p16 expression were found. For the shorter isoform LIP, correlations with an ER-negative phenotype and high Ki67 immunostaining were detected, and high histological grading (G3) correlated with lower LAP/LIP ratio. These results suggest that high C/EBPbeta expression might be involved in tumor progression and indicative of an unfavorable prognosis.
Prognostic value of quality of life scores for time to progression (TTP) and overall survival time (OS) in advanced breast cancer.	The purpose of the study was to investigate whether baseline quality of life (QoL) and changes in QoL scores from baseline are prognostic for time to progression (TTP) and/or overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced breast cancer receiving docetaxel (T) or sequential methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (MF). QoL was assessed at baseline and before each treatment using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30). Survival curves and probabilities were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier technique. The Cox proportional hazards regression model was used for both the univariate and multivariate analyses to explore relationships between baseline QoL variables and TTP, as well as OS. In the univariate analysis, more severe pain and fatigue at baseline were predictive for a shorter OS; global QoL, physical functioning and appetite loss had a borderline significance (P=0.0130 for global QoL; P=0.0256 for physical functioning: P=0.0149 for appetite loss). World Health Organization (WHO) performance status was significantly predictive for OS. In the multivariate analysis, more severe pain at baseline was predictive for a shorter OS. In contrast, baseline QoL had no prognostic value for the duration of TTP. QoL change scores from baseline QoL predicted neither OS nor TTP. Our findings suggest that while QoL measurements are important in evaluating patients' QoL, they have no great importance in predicting primary clinical endpoints such as TTP or OS in advanced breast cancer patients.
The relationship between the diameters of the adult cricoid ring and main tracheobronchial tree: a cadaver study to investigate the basis for double-lumen tube selection.	Previous investigation of the adult cadaver larynx has shown that the cricoid diameter never exceeds that of the glottis. This further analysis looks at the anatomic relationships between the diameter of the cricoid ring and those of the main tracheobronchial tree to discover how they relate to double-lumen tube selection.
Difficult laryngoscopy: incidence and predictors in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery versus general surgery patients.	Cardiac surgery patients might have a higher incidence of difficult laryngoscopy than the general population because of older age, dental problems, and obesity. The authors estimated the incidence and predictors of difficult laryngoscopy in coronary artery bypass surgery patients.
Does gender influence resource utilization in patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery?	The purpose of the present study was to examine if gender influences duration of tracheal intubation, blood transfusion needs, intensive care unit length of stay (ICULOS), postoperative length of stay (PLOS), and total length of stay (LOS) in patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery.
Cerebral palsy rates among low-birthweight infants fell in the 1990s.	Using a population-based register, this study sought to ascertain changes in the rate and severity of cerebral palsy (CP) in a geographically defined area of the UK among infants weighing less than 1500 g and born between 1984 and 1995. There were 417414 live births in the area, which included Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Northamptonshire, and Oxfordshire. Of the 898 children with CP (526 males, 372 females), 194 (21.6%) weighed less than 1500 g at birth. The overall CP rate for neonatal survivors fell from 2.5 out of every 1000 in 1984 to 1986 to 1.7 in 1993 to 1995. The rate for those weighing less than 1000 g rose to 90 out of every 1000 neonatal survivors in 1987 to 1989 and then fell to 57 in 1993 to 1995. A similar pattern is seen among infants weighing 1000 to 1499 g at birth, the rate rising to 77 in 1987 to 1988 and then falling to 40 in 1993 to 1995. The rate of severe motor disability among infants weighing less than 1500 g also decreased (24.6 in 1984-1986 to 12.5 in 1993-1995). The relation of these findings to changes in perinatal care in the early 1990s is not known.
Early prognostic factors for intellectual outcome in CHARGE syndrome.	CHARGE syndrome (coloboma, heart disease, atresia of the choanae, retarded growth and mental development, genital anomalies, and ear malformations and hearing loss) is a heterogeneous condition for which early prediction of intellectual outcome is important but difficult. The psychomotor milestones and intellectual outcome of a consecutive series of children with CHARGE syndrome who were observed by the same team from the neonatal period to the time of study were analyzed retrospectively. Twenty-one children (11 males and 10 females, aged from 5 to 12 years, mean 8 years 7 months, SD 2 years 5 months) were included. The influence of 19 early identifiable parameters that could be considered as deleterious for intellectual outcome was recorded. Generally, the main psychomotor milestones (0 to 4 years) were severely delayed, although intellectual outcome (at primary-school age) was satisfactory for half the children in this series. We show that extensive bilateral coloboma resulting in low vision, microcephaly, and brain malformation were the only three parameters that were predictive of poor intellectual outcome. Conversely, severe neonatal medical conditions, such as tracheotomy, conditions requiring long stays in hospital, or cardiac surgery were not predictive of poor intellectual outcome. Severe hearing loss was not found to be negatively correlated with intellectual outcome once coloboma had been taken into account.
Challenges and strategies for conducting survey and focus group research with culturally diverse groups.	The professions represented by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association are serving a wide range of populations as diversity in the United States continues to grow rapidly. This article offers tentative guidance for and invites an open dialogue with other researchers interested in culturally sensitive research issues. Specifically, as the professions adopt an increasingly global perspective, it is likely that researchers will need to acquire skills in conducting research within culturally diverse populations. Within this article, research scenarios are discussed, in particular, methods for survey, interview, and focus groups. Topics such as preparing a research instrument, gaining access to clients, and effectively utilizing interpreters are presented. In brief, this article is designed as a beginning conversation about an increasingly important topic: conducting culturally sensitive research in communication disorders.
Quantification of allosteric influence of Escherichia coli phosphofructokinase by frequency domain fluorescence.	The allosteric properties of the wild-type Escherichia coli phosphofructokinase were compared to the E187A mutant by using frequency-domain techniques. Tryptophan-shifted mutants comprising of double (W311Y/Y55W and W/311F/F188W) and triple (W311Y/Y55W/E187A and W311F/F188W/E187A) amino acid residue changes, which allowed for better fluorescence probing at targeted sites, were also compared to the wild-type and E187A. The additive nature of multiple mutations allowed one to partition the net effect of modifying residue 187. In general, the mutant enzymes displayed greater heterogeneity in sub-state population than did the wild-type enzyme. The semi-cone angle model was used to quantify the extent of depolarization of the fluorophore. Use of the model presupposes that the extent of depolarization directly correlates with the degree of flexibility of the fluorophore. A relationship has been established between the values determined from the semi-cone angle calculations and the thermodynamic components responsible for the allosteric linkage between the regulatory and substrate binding. Coupling interactions giving rise to positive entropy components are manifested by increasing flexibility of the ternary complexes rather than the binary complexes.
Statistical hypothesis testing--how exact are exact p-values?	When testing a hypothesis statistically, a principle is generally accepted that exact p values shall be stated in the treatise. Researchers have the choice of many statistical computer programmes with implemented hypothesis tests. Are exact p values calculated in the same statistical tests by diverse statistical programmes identical?
A structural basis for the size-related mechanical properties of mitral valve chordae tendineae.	It has been reported previously that the mechanical properties of mitral valve chordae tendineae vary with chordal size and type. The popularity of mitral valve repair and chordal transposition warrant a better understanding of this phenomenon. The objectives of this study were to characterize the size- and type-related variations in chordal mechanics and explain them from the ultra-structural viewpoint. A total of 52 porcine mitral valve chordae from eight hearts were mechanically tested. We found that thicker chordae were more extensible than thinner chordae (4.2+/-1.5%, 8.1+/-2.5%, 15.7+/-3.9% and 18.4+/-2.8% strain corresponding to chordae with cross-sectional areas of 0.1-0.5, 0.5-1.0, 1.0-2.0, and 2.0-3.0mm(2), respectively), and had lower moduli (90.1+/-22.3, 83.7+/-18.5, 66.3+/-13.5 and 61.7+/-13.3 MPa corresponding to the same chordae groups). Polarized light microscopy was used to measure collagen fibril crimp. Thicker chordae had smaller crimp period than thinner chordae (11.3+/-1.4 microm vs. 14.8+/-3.0 microm), and were thus more highly crimped. Thicker chordae could therefore extend to greater strain before lock-up. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used to measure choral fibril ultra-structure. Thinner chordae had lower average fibril diameter than thicker chordae but greater average fibril density. The cross-sectional area occupied by fibrils, however, was found to be constant at 49+/-2% regardless of chordal size or type. The difference in moduli between thick and thin chordae can therefore be explained by differences in fibril packaging and hence fibril-to-fibril interactions. According to a simple fibril interaction model, chordae with smaller diameter fibrils will have a greater number of fibril-to-fibril interactions, and hence a greater modulus.
Socioeconomic status, C-reactive protein, immune factors, and responses to acute mental stress.	Low socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease and immune-related disorders. We hypothesised that SES would be inversely associated with the acute phase reactant C-reactive protein (CRP) and with circulating lymphocyte levels, and that lymphocyte responses to acute psychological stress would also vary with SES. CRP was obtained from 226, and lymphocyte counts from 127 healthy volunteers from the Whitehall II cohort, and SES was defined primarily by grade of employment. CRP concentration was greater in lower compared with higher SES participants (1.18+/-0.75 vs. 0.75+/-0.8 mg/l,p=.002) independently of sex, age, body mass, waist/hip ratio, smoking, alcohol, and season of the year. Similar differences were evident when SES was defined by income and educational attainment. Higher SES was also associated with lower total lymphocyte (p=.023), T-lymphocyte (p=.024) and natural killer (NK) cell counts (p=.006). Total, T- and B-lymphocyte, and NK cell counts increased with stress, but immune stress reactivity did not vary with SES. Post-stress recovery was delayed in women compared with men. The results suggest that moderate inflammation and immune activation may be processes through which lower SES increases disease risk.
Psychological factors correlate meaningfully with percent-monocytes among acute coronary syndrome patients.	Recent research demonstrates the importance of inflammatory parameters in the etiology and prognosis of the acute coronary syndrome (ACS). This study explored relations between psychological factors and immunological parameters routinely measured among ACS patients. Forty-two ACS patients completed questionnaires assessing perceived-control, emotional support, hostility, and life-events 2-4 days after hospitalization. Data on total leukocytes and percentages (%) of monocytes, %neutrophils, and %lymphocytes upon admission to hospital were collected from computerized medical charts as well as various biomedical information and risk-factors (e.g., diagnosis, left-ventricle-LV functioning, smoking, and hypertension). Of all significant biomedical variables, LV-function and arrival-time correlated uniquely with total leukocytes. Controlling for LV-function and arrival-time, hostility and life-events positively correlated with %monocytes, and perceived-control and emotional-support inversely correlated with %monocytes. Emotional-support was positively correlated and life-events were negatively correlated with %neutrophils. Macrophages play a pivotal role in plaque instability, the trigger of an ACS. This initiating role, and our finding of a relationship between recruitment of monocytes and a poor psychosocial profile, predictive of ACS, are consistent with a PNI component in the pathophysiology of ACS.
Compensating effects on the cytotoxicity of ribonuclease A variants.	Ribonuclease (RNase) A can be endowed with cytotoxic activity by enabling it to evade the cytosolic ribonuclease inhibitor protein (RI). Enhancing its conformational stability can increase further its cytotoxicity. Herein, the A4C/K41R/G88R/V118C variant of RNase A was created to integrate four individual changes that greatly decrease RI affinity (K41R/G88R) and increase conformational stability (A4C/V118C). Yet, the variant suffers a decrease in ribonucleolytic activity and is only as potent a cytotoxin as its precursors. Thus, individual changes that increase cytotoxicity can have offsetting consequences. Overall, cytotoxicity correlates well with the maintenance of ribonucleolytic activity in the presence of RI. The parameter (k(cat)/K(m))(cyto), which reports on the ability of a ribonuclease to manifest its ribonucleolytic activity in the cytosol, is especially useful in predicting the cytotoxicity of an RNase A variant.
Fundamental measures of diagnostic examination performance: usefulness for clinical decision making and research.	Measures of diagnostic accuracy, such as sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and receiver operating characteristic curves, can often seem like abstract mathematic concepts that have a minimal relationship with clinical decision making or clinical research. The purpose of this article is to provide definitions and examples of these concepts that illustrate their usefulness in specific clinical decision-making tasks. In particular, nine principles are provided to guide the use of these concepts in daily radiology practice, in interpreting clinical literature, and in designing clinical research studies. An understanding of these principles and of the measures of diagnostic accuracy to which they apply is vital to the appropriate evaluation and use of diagnostic imaging examinations.
Cellular level of 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine in DNA does not correlate with urinary excretion of the modified base/nucleoside.	We assessed a relationship between the level of 8-oxodG in leukocyte DNA measured with the high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC/EC) technique and urinary excretion of the modified nucleoside/base analysed with a recently developed methodology involving HPLC prepurification followed by gas chromatography with isotope dilution mass spectrometric detection. No correlation was found between these markers of oxidative DNA damage commonly used in epidemiological studies. Several possible explanations of this finding are discussed.
Factors associated with depression in a representative sample of 14 217 people aged 75 and over in the United Kingdom: results from the MRC trial of assessment and management of older people in the community.	Several social, demographic and physical factors have been shown to be associated with depression in later life, but results have been inconsistent. We aimed to assess factors associated with depression in old age, using data from the MRC trial of assessment and management of older people in the community.
Three-dimensional assessment of two-dimensional technique for evaluation of right ventricular function by tricuspid annulus motion.	Measurement of tricuspid annulus motion (TAM) is an easy way to estimate right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF). However the accuracy of two-dimensional (2-D) methods for analyzing the three-dimensional (3-D) structure of the tricuspid annulus has not been evaluated.
Use of tissue Doppler echocardiography in early detection of left ventricular systolic dysfunction in patients with mitral regurgitation.	Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) and left ventricular (LV) end-systolic diameter measurements are the most widely accepted and utilized methods to demonstrate LV dysfunction in patients with mitral regurgitation (MR). However, these parameters still have many drawbacks in predicting early LV dysfunction. This study investigates the clinical usefulness of tissue Doppler echocardiography technique in detecting early disturbance of myocardial contractility in asymptomatic patients with chronic, severe MR and normal LV ejection fraction values.
The accuracy of 1-day dual-isotope myocardial SPECT in a population with high prevalence of coronary artery disease.	In order to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of the 1-day separate acquisition dual-isotope single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) protocol, using 201Tl for the rest and 99mTc-tetrofosmin for the stress images, a consecutive series of patients with suspected or known coronary artery disease (CAD) was studied that also underwent coronary angiography.
Three- and four-dimensional reconstruction of intra-cardiac anatomy from two-dimensional magnetic resonance images.	The present study was designed to evaluate the feasibility and clinical usefulness of three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of intra-cardiac anatomy from a series of two-dimensional (2D) MR images using commercially available software. Sixteen patients (eight with structurally normal hearts but due to have catheter radio-frequency ablation of atrial tachyarrhythmias and eight with atrial septal defects (ASD) due for trans-catheter closure) and two volunteers were imaged at 1T. For each patient, a series of ECG-triggered images (5 mm thick slices, 2-3 mm apart) were acquired during breath holding. Depending on image quality, T1- or T2-weighted spin-echo images or gradient-echo cine images were used. The 3D reconstruction was performed off-line: the blood pools within cardiac chambers and great vessels were semi-automatically segmented, their outer surface was extracted using a marching cube algorithm and rendered. Intra- and inter-observer variability, effect of breath-hold position and differences between pulse sequences were assessed by imaging a volunteer. The 3D reconstructions were assessed by three cardiologists and compared with the 2D MR images and with 2D and 3D trans-esophagal and intra-cardiac echocardiography obtained during interventions. In every case, an anatomically detailed 3D volume was obtained. In the two patients where a 3 mm interval between slices was used, the resolution was not as good but it was still possible to visualize all the major anatomical structures. Spin-echo images lead to reconstructions more detailed than those obtained from gradient-echo images. However, gradient-echo images are easier to segment due to their greater contrast. Furthermore, because images were acquired at least at ten points in the cardiac cycles for every slice it was possible to reconstruct a cine loop and, for example, to visualize the evolution of the size and margins of the ASD during the cardiac cycle. 3D reconstruction proved to be an effective way to assess the relationship between the different parts of the cardiac anatomy. The technique was useful in planning interventions in these patients.
DNA probability profiles: examples from the Treponema pallidum genome.	In this paper we apply an algorithm developed by Poland (Biopolymers 13 (1974) 1859) to treat the statistical mechanics of the thermal unwinding of DNA to the genome of Treponema pallidum, the syphilis spirochete. We calculate probability profiles (giving the probability that each unit in the molecule is in the helix-state) and other statistical distributions for genes and sequences of genes, the longest containing 100 genes and 107,139 base pairs (approximately 10% of the genome).
How well does ISO 11948-1 (the Rothwell method) for measuring the absorption capacity of incontinence pads in the laboratory correlate with clinical pad performance.	The ability of ISO 11948-1 (the Rothwell method) to predict the leakage performance of disposable bodyworn pads for heavy urinary incontinence was investigated by measuring correlations between models based on clinical evaluations of 138 diapers and inserts (the two major design categories), and technical models based on their Rothwell absorption capacities and design features. Correlations were poorer than in the original 1993 study for the standard (r < or =0.87 compared with r < or =0.95), but still strong enough to help with purchasing choices. For a given Rothwell capacity, the leakage performance of diapers was far superior to inserts; for example, diapers containing 450 and 300 g of urine performed, as well as inserts containing 300 and 100 g, respectively. No evidence was found for any other design feature having a significant impact on leakage performance. The coefficient of variation for Rothwell capacity (a measure of product consistency) had significant impact on the leakage performance of diapers, but not inserts. The probability of diapers with the poorest consistency leaking exceeded that for the best by about 10 percentage points. Similarly, diapers were about 10 percentage points more likely to leak when used at night than during the day. Differences between day-time and night-time use of inserts were not studied.
Investigating semantic similarity measures across the Gene Ontology: the relationship between sequence and annotation.	Many bioinformatics data resources not only hold data in the form of sequences, but also as annotation. In the majority of cases, annotation is written as scientific natural language: this is suitable for humans, but not particularly useful for machine processing. Ontologies offer a mechanism by which knowledge can be represented in a form capable of such processing. In this paper we investigate the use of ontological annotation to measure the similarities in knowledge content or 'semantic similarity' between entries in a data resource. These allow a bioinformatician to perform a similarity measure over annotation in an analogous manner to those performed over sequences. A measure of semantic similarity for the knowledge component of bioinformatics resources should afford a biologist a new tool in their repertoire of analyses.
Abnormalities of Th1 function in non-IgE food allergy, celiac disease, and ileal lymphonodular hyperplasia: a new relationship?	Non-IgE mechanisms may also be involved food allergy (FA). Our group has been studying the immunopathogenesis clinical entities in children with gastro-intestinal symptoms and in whom biopsies of the terminal ileum show lymphoid tissue masses referred to as ileal lymphonodular hyperplasia. Our more recent studies have demonstrated Th1/Th2 cytokine profiles associated with non-IgE FA and other clinical entities.
Estimates of echo correlation and measurement bias in acoustic radiation force impulse imaging.	Acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging is a novel imaging modality in which pulses from a diagnostic ultrasound scanner are used to displace tissue and track its motion. The region displaced has lateral and elevational dimensions of similar scale to the ultrasound beams used to track the motion. Therefore, there is a range of tissue displacements present within the tracking beam, leading to decorrelation of the echo signal. Expressions are derived for the expected value of the displacement estimate and the cross-correlation at the expected displacement. Numerical simulations confirm the analytical model.
Autocorrelation and cepstral methods for measurement of tibial cortical thickness.	Cortical thickness of the tibia is related to stress fracture risk and overall skeletal status. Two methods are proposed for estimating tibial cortical thickness based on power spectra of ultrasonic echoes containing reflections from front and back surfaces of the cortex. The locations of the peaks in the autocorrelation function and the cepstrum are related to cortical thickness. Data were acquired on plastic plates in order to validate the methodology. These data indicate high correlations between estimated and true thickness with correlation coefficients r = 0.99, (95% confidence interval: 0.993-1.00) for the autocorrelation method and r = 0.99 (95% CI: 0.996-1.00) for the cepstral method. Data on six tibia samples in vitro indicate correlation coefficients of r = 0.92 (95% CI: 0.72-1.00) for the autocorrelation method and r = 0.85 (95% CI: 0.62-0.94) for the cepstral method. Estimates of precisions of the two methods were 0.3 +/- 0.1 mm (autocorrelation method) and 0.5 +/- 0.2 mm (cepstral method). One measurement in a human volunteer in vivo demonstrated clinical feasibility of the measurement and good agreement with cortical thickness assessed using peripheral quantitative computed tomography (QCT). This technology offers the promise of an inexpensive, fast, portable, simple, nonionizing technique for assessing skeletal status.
Complementary and alternative medicine in children with asthma.	The popularity of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), particularly for chronic conditions such as asthma, is growing rapidly, but little is known about its use in asthmatic children.
Asthma prevalence among Alaska Native and nonnative residents younger than 20 years enrolled in Medicaid.	No study of childhood asthma prevalence in Alaska or among Alaska Natives has been conducted.
Construct validity and responsiveness of the Child Health Questionnaire in children with acute asthma.	To examine the validity and responsiveness of the Child Health Questionnaire (CHQ-PF28) in the context of acute exacerbation of asthma in children.
Oral candidiasis associated with inhaled corticosteroid use: comparison of fluticasone and beclomethasone.	Inhaled steroids such as fluticasone propionate and beclomethasone dipropionate play a central role in the treatment of bronchial asthma. Fluticasone exhibits excellent clinical effectiveness; however, oral adverse effects can occur.
Childhood cough variant asthma and its relationship to classic asthma.	In pediatrics, some patients with chronic cough who have no evidence of a causative disease are diagnosed as having cough variant asthma (CVA). The precise prognosis of infants and children with CVA, however, is still unclear.
Correlation of serotonin and monoamine oxidase levels with anxiety level in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is generally considered to have a psychogenic component in its physiopathology.
Differential relationships between anxiety and treatment-associated pain reduction among male and female chronic pain patients.	Clinical, epidemiological, and laboratory-based studies have all suggested that female sex and elevated anxiety are associated with greater experience of pain. However, several recent reports have also indicated that sex may moderate the relationship between anxiety and responses to noxious stimuli, with anxiety more strongly related to pain among males. The present study examined whether anxiety differentially impacts outcomes for pain treatment among males and females.
Spousal responses are differentially associated with clinical variables in women and men with chronic pain.	Spousal responses have been related to clinical variables in patients with chronic pain. For example, solicitous responses from spouses have been associated with greater levels of pain and disability among patients with chronic pain. However, few investigators have determined whether spousal solicitousness produces different effects in women versus men with chronic pain. The present study examined pain reports, medication use, psychosocial factors, functional measures, and pain tolerance in patients with chronic pain.
Serotonin and experimental pain in healthy young volunteers.	The role of serotonin in the modulation of nociceptive input has been widely studied, and a link between serum serotonin (S-5HT) and pain thresholds elicited in patients with chronic painful pathologies has been shown. In the light of contradictory concepts on pain message modulation by S-5HT, this study tries to define whether S-5HT displays a nociceptive or antinociceptive role in experimental pain evaluation in healthy volunteers.
Assessing the medical literature: let the buyer beware.	As many as 30% of journal articles may contain errors. Most of these errors involve the use of simple statistical tests or elementary principles of research design. Assessment of the thoracic surgical literature involves cautious circumspection. This does not mean that it is necessary to have in-depth knowledge of sophisticated statistics, rather it means that common sense understanding of a few principles of research design and simple statistics are necessary to determine the usefulness and believability of literature publications.
The toxicity of metal mixtures to the estuarine mysid Neomysis integer (Crustacea: Mysidacea) under changing salinity.	Water quality criteria are mainly based on data obtained in toxicity tests with single toxicants. Several authors have demonstrated that this approach may be inadequate as the joint action of the chemicals is not taken into account. In this study, the combined effects of six metals on the European estuarine mysid Neomysis integer (Leach, 1814) were examined. Acute 96-h toxicity tests were performed with mercury, copper, cadmium, nickel, zinc and lead, and this as single compounds and as a mixture of all six. The concentrations of the individual metals of the equitoxic mixtures were calculated using the concentration-addition model. The 96-h LC50's for the single metals, at a salinity of 5 per thousand, ranged from 6.9 to 1140 microg/l, with the following toxicity ranking: Hg>Cd>Cu>Zn>Ni>Pb. Increasing the salinity from 5 to 25 per thousand resulted in lower toxicity and lower concentrations of the free ion (as derived from speciation calculations) for all metals. This salinity effect was strongest for cadmium and lead and could be attributed to complexation with chloride ions. The toxicity of nickel, copper and zinc was affected to a smaller extent by salinity. The 96-h LC50 for mercury was the same for both salinities. In order to evaluate the influence of changing salinity conditions on the acute toxicity of metal mixtures, tests were performed at different salinities (5, 10, 15 and 25 per thousand ). The 96-h LC50 value (1.49 T.U.) of the metal mixture, at a salinity of 5 per thousand, was clearly lower than the expected value (6 T.U.) based on the non-additive hypothesis, thus confirming the additive effect of these metals in the marine/estuarine environment. Changing salinity had a profound effect on the toxicity of the mixture. The toxicity clearly decreased with increasing salinity until 15 per thousand. Higher salinities (25 per thousand ) had no further influence on the 96-h LC50 of the mixture which is situated at a value between 4.4 and 4.6. Finally, the relative sensitivity to the selected metals was compared with the relative sensitivity of the commonly used mysid Americamysis (=Mysidopsis) bahia.
Brain symmetry and topographic analysis of lateralized event-related potentials.	We investigated the influence of symmetry assumptions implicit in the derivation and the use of event-related lateralized potentials (ERLs), such as the lateralized readiness potential (LRP). We describe these assumptions and demonstrate several alternative computational methods.
Prognostic value of combined assessment of regional left ventricular function and myocardial perfusion by dobutamine and rest gated SPECT in patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction.	Gated SPECT allows combined assessment of regional myocardial perfusion and left ventricular function. The aim of this study was to address the prognostic value of gated SPECT performed during dobutamine stress testing and during rest on patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with thrombolysis.
Indexing glomerular filtration rate to suit children.	In order to be able to compare individuals of differing size, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is conventionally indexed to body surface area (BSA). This does not, however, suit children because they naturally have a relatively high BSA simply because of their small size. The aim of the study was to identify an appropriate simple whole-body variable based on height and weight suitable for indexing GFR that would be simultaneously appropriate for both children and adults.
Meditations on birth weight: is it better to reduce the variance or increase the mean?	A conceptual model is presented here in which the birth weight distribution is decomposed into a distribution of target weights and a distribution of perturbations from the target. The target weight is the adaptive goal of fetal development. In the simplest model, perinatal mortality is independent of variation in target weight and determined solely by the magnitude of the perturbation of birth weight from the target. In this model, mortality risk is concentrated in the tails of the birth weight distribution. A difference between populations in their distributions of target weights will be associated with a corresponding shift in their curves of weight-specific risk, without any difference between the populations in overall risk. In this model, risk would be reduced by decreasing the variance of the distribution of perturbations. The model is discussed in the context of the so-called "paradoxes of low birth weight."
Persistently low extracellular glucose correlates with poor outcome 6 months after human traumatic brain injury despite a lack of increased lactate: a microdialysis study.	Disturbed glucose brain metabolism after brain trauma is reflected by changes in extracellular glucose levels. The authors hypothesized that posttraumatic reductions in extracellular glucose levels are not due to ischemia and are associated with poor outcome. Intracerebral microdialysis, electroencephalography, and measurements of brain tissue oxygen levels and jugular venous oxygen saturation were performed in 30 patients with traumatic brain injury. Levels of glucose, lactate, pyruvate, glutamate, and urea were analyzed hourly. The 6-month Glasgow Outcome Scale extended (GOSe6) score was assessed for each patient. In regions of increased glucose utilization defined by positron emission tomography, the extracellular glucose concentration was less than 0.2 mmol/l. Extracellular glucose values were less than 0.2 mmol during postinjury days 0 to 7 in 19% to 30% of hourly samples on each day. Transient decreases in glucose levels occurred with electrographic seizures and nonischemic reductions in cerebral perfusion pressure and jugular venous oxygen saturation. Glutamate levels were elevated in the majority of low-glucose samples, but the lactate/pyruvate ratio did not indicate focal ischemia. Terminal herniation resulted in reductions in glucose with increases in the lactate/pyruvate ratio but not in lactate concentration alone. GOSe6 scores correlated with persistently low glucose levels, combined early low glucose levels and low lactate/glucose ratio, and with the overall lactate/glucose ratio. These results suggest that the level of extracellular glucose is typically reduced after traumatic brain injury and associated with poor outcome, but is not associated with ischemia.
Measuring dietary fatty acid intake:validation of a food-frequency questionnaire against 7 d weighed records.	There are few validated methods of measuring dietary fatty acid intake that are suitable for epidemiological research. The purpose of the present study was to develop and validate a food-frequency questionnaire (FFQ) developed to measure individual dietary fatty acid intakes against 7 d weighed dietary records, in a sample of thirty-one healthy adult volunteers. The FFQ was based on a previously validated questionnaire (DIETQ; Tinuviel Software, Warrington, Ches., UK), adapted to include greater detail on those foods from which the majority of dietary fatty acids are obtained. The FFQ and weighed records were analysed using food nutrient data from McCance and Widdowson's Food Composition Tables, supplemented with a food fatty acid content database (Foodbase, London, UK). Results from the two dietary assessment methods were compared by correlation coefficients and limits of agreement. The mean intake of individual fatty acids tended to be lower when assessed by FFQ. Correlation coefficients comparing unadjusted individual fatty acid intakes assessed by FFQ and weighed records ranged from 0.29 for 18 : 1n-9 to 0.71 for 20 : 4n-6. Adjusting for energy intake tended to increase the correlation coefficients between saturated fatty acids and decrease those between unsaturated fatty acids. In conclusion, this food-frequency method provides reliable estimates of dietary intake of many individual fatty acids for use in epidemiological studies.
Graphical analysis of 99mTc thyroid scintigraphy.	A new non-invasive simple method for quantitative evaluation of thyroid was presented using graphical analysis of the transfer process of technetium-99m pertechnetate (99mTc) from the blood to thyroid. Thirty subjects were studied. After a bolus injection of 111 MBq of 99mTc, the data were recorded on a 128 x 128 matrix as 60 frames of 1.5-second duration. ROIs were placed over the aortic arch and bilateral thyroid lobes. The activity of the aorta was monitored instead of the arterial activity. Graphical analysis by plotting B(t)/A(t) versus integral(0)t A(tau)d tau/A(t) gave a straight line within the first 30 seconds in all subjects. The slope of the line was the unidirectional influx rate of 99mTc (k(u)). Thyroid perfusion index (TPI) was calculated to standardize where the ratio of ROI(thyroid) size to ROI(aorta) size was set as 10. K(u) and TPI showed good correlation with 99mTc thyroid uptake. Hyperthyroid patients showed high values of k(u) and TPI. Considering that these indices were determined at the first pass of 99mTc, this method may be helpful especially in the evaluation of thyroid perfusion.
Tc-99m depreotide SPECT demonstrates photon-deficiency in the thoracic vertebrae after adjunct radiation therapy of lung cancer: correlation with MRI and bone scintigraphy.	Fifteen months after right lobe lobectomy with adjunctive radiation therapy for squamous cell carcinoma, a patient 53-yr-old man underwent Tc-99m depreotide chest single photon emission tomography (SPECT). In addition to two focal areas of abnormally increased uptake in the right lung, the Tc-99m depreotide SPECT showed cold areas in the middle thoracic vertebrae. Photopenic areas in the 6th and 7th thoracic vertebrae were shown on a bone scintigraphy. T1 weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine showed fatty replacement of the marrow and Schmorl's nodes involving the 5th to 11th thoracic vertebrae. The vertebrae are normally visualized in Tc-99m depreotide SPECT imaging study, and lung tumor is usually somatostatin receptor positive with demonstrable activity in the lung. Absent uptake in the vertebrae in the fatty replacement of the marrow and multiple and giant vertebral Schmorl's nodes in the correspondent vertebrae in MRI may reflect visualization of vertebrae due to Tc-99m depreotide localizing in the bone marrow. Of the three imaging modalities, MRI showed the widest areas of thoracic vertebral involvement. One should be aware that a cold lesion in the vertebrae on Tc-99m depreotide imaging study may result from irradiation and may indicate the presence of a benign lesion in the bone marrow.
Interobserver variability of cerebral blood flow measurements obtained using spectral analysis and technetium-99m labeled compounds.	Radionuclide angiography with technetium-99m hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) or technetium-99m ethyl cysteinate dimer (99mTc-ECD) enables the non-invasive estimation of absolute cerebral blood flow (CBF) to be determined by using spectral analysis (SA). We previously demonstrated the clinical use of SA; however, this method involves a few manual steps. The aim of this study was to evaluate the interobserver variability of CBF estimations made using SA and compare these results with those obtained by using graphical analysis (GA). In twenty patients with various brain diseases (27-74 years old), radionuclide angiography examinations were performed using 99mTc-labeled compounds (10 patients, 99mTc-HMPAO; 10 patients, 99mTc-ECD). Bilateral cerebral hemispheres were studied in all patients, and the brain perfusion index (BPI) values were estimated using SA and GA. The interobserver variability between two observers was then assessed. A good correlation between the BPI values assessed using both SA (BPI(S)) and GA (BPI(G)) was obtained. The correlation coefficient for BPI(S) (r = 0.987) was almost the same as that for BPI(G) (r = 0.982). The degree of interobserver variability was not affected by the measurement of elevated BPI values. Measurements carried out by two observers using both SA and GA exhibited a similar degree of interobserver variability. SA appears to have a satisfactory interobserver variability and may be more suitable for clinical applications.
Very low-frequency heart rate variability wave amplitude and sympathetic stimulation--characterization and modeling.	The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship between very low-frequency heart rate variability (LFHR) wave amplitude and the degree of sympathetic stimulation. We developed a computerized system for the controlled increase of heart rate (HR) by isoproterenol (ISP), with which we obtained a series of stabilized HR levels in conscious freely moving rats. We found that LFHR amplitude rises gradually as a function of the average HR for each level until it reaches a point where additional increases in average HR are associated with gradual decrease in LFHR amplitude. We successfully built and fitted a model of LFHR amplitude to the experimental results. The fact that our model fits the experimental data well may suggest a possible relationship between our LFHR amplitude findings and the basic physiologic properties of the HR-ISP system inherent in our model.
Match performance of high-standard soccer players with special reference to development of fatigue.	The aim of this study was to assess physical fitness, match performance and development of fatigue during competitive matches at two high standards of professional soccer. Computerized time-motion analyses were performed 2-7 times during the competitive season on 18 top-class and 24 moderate professional soccer players. In addition, the players performed the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test. The top-class players performed 28 and 58% more (P < 0.05) high-intensity running and sprinting, respectively, than the moderate players (2.43 +/- 0.14 vs 1.90 +/- 0.12 km and 0.65 +/- 0.06 vs 0.41 +/- 0.03 km, respectively). The top-class players were better (11%; P < 0.05) on the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test than the moderate players (2.26 +/- 0.08 vs 2.04 +/- 0.06 km, respectively). The amount of high-intensity running, independent of competitive standard and playing position, was lower (35-45%; P < 0.05) in the last than in the first 15 min of the game. After the 5-min period during which the amount of high-intensity running peaked, performance was reduced (P < 0.05) by 12% in the following 5 min compared with the game average. Substitute players (n = 13) covered 25% more (P < 0.05) ground during the final 15 min of high-intensity running than the other players. The coefficient of variation in high-intensity running was 9.2% between successive matches, whereas it was 24.8% between different stages of the season. Total distance covered and the distance covered in high-intensity running were higher (P < 0.05) for midfield players, full-backs and attackers than for defenders. Attackers and full-backs covered a greater (P < 0.05) distance in sprinting than midfield players and defenders. The midfield players and full-backs covered a greater (P < 0.05) distance than attackers and defenders in the Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test (2.23 +/- 0.10 and 2.21 +/- 0.04 vs 1.99 +/- 0.11 and 1.91 +/- 0.12 km, respectively). The results show that: (1) top-class soccer players performed more high-intensity running during a game and were better at the Yo-Yo test than moderate professional players; (2) fatigue occurred towards the end of matches as well as temporarily during the game, independently of competitive standard and of team position; (3) defenders covered a shorter distance in high-intensity running than players in other playing positions; (4) defenders and attackers had a poorer Yo-Yo intermittent recovery test performance than midfielders and full-backs; and (5) large seasonal changes were observed in physical performance during matches.
The influence of trained peer tutoring on tutors' motivation and performance in a French boxing setting.	The aim of this study was to examine the potential motivational and behavioural benefits of two peer tutoring programmes for tutors in a sport setting. Differences between the sexes were also explored. Thirty two college-age males and females, all novices on a French boxing task, were assigned to a 2 x 2 [sex x training type: physical practice associated with trained peer tutoring (TPT) vs physical practice associated with untrained peer tutoring (UPT)] factorial design. All participants were given six French boxing lessons of 2 h each. The TPT programme included structured methods to prepare the participants to fulfil their role of tutors, whereas the UPT programme did not. The results demonstrated that the TPT programme resulted in higher scores for coaching skills. Furthermore, interaction effects revealed that the TPT programme yielded better offensive outcomes for males and better defensive outcomes for females. Although the UPT participants expressed higher self-efficacy, no differences emerged for intrinsic motivation and causal attributions. Finally, male tutors displayed higher self-efficacy and offensive outcomes than female tutors. The results are discussed in the light of previous findings in the educational and sport psychology literature.
Body sway, aim point fluctuation and performance in rifle shooters: inter- and intra-individual analysis.	In this study, we examined the relationships between body sway, aim point fluctuation and performance in rifle shooting on an inter- and intra-individual basis. Six elite shooters performed 20 shots under competition conditions. For each shot, body sway parameters and four aim point fluctuation parameters were quantified for the time periods 5 s to shot, 3 s to shot and 1 s to shot. Three parameters were used to indicate performance. An AMTI LG6-4 force plate was used to measure body sway parameters, while a SCATT shooting analysis system was used to measure aim point fluctuation and shooting performance. Multiple regression analysis indicated that body sway was related to performance for four shooters. Also, body sway was related to aim point fluctuation for all shooters. These relationships were specific to the individual, with the strength of association, parameters of importance and time period of importance different for different shooters. Correlation analysis of significant regressions indicated that, as body sway increased, performance decreased and aim point fluctuation increased for most relationships. We conclude that body sway and aim point fluctuation are important in elite rifle shooting and performance errors are highly individual-specific at this standard. Individual analysis should be a priority when examining elite sports performance.
Diurnal and annual changes in serum cortisol concentrations in Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins Tursiops aduncus and killer whales Orcinus orca.	Until present, fundamental studies on cortisol secretory patterns have not been conducted in cetaceans. The objectives of this study were: (1) to examine diurnal changes in serum cortisol concentrations in Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins Tursiops aduncus and killer whales Orcinus orca, (2) to investigate annual cortisol changes in killer whales, and (3) to investigate the relationship between cortisol and sex steroids (testosterone and progesterone) concentrations in killer whales. Diurnal changes in serum cortisol concentrations were investigated at various intervals in the two species. In Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins, serum cortisol levels exhibited the same episodic fluctuations for 24 h as did diurnal terrestrial mammals: cortisol levels were lower at 18:00 h and higher in the early morning. In killer whales, cortisol concentrations continued to decrease until 18:00 h, after which they fluctuated, and then increased in the next morning. Annual changes in cortisol levels were investigated by collecting blood samples every two weeks from two male killer whales and a pregnant female one twice per day (during 09:00-10:00 and 16:00-17:00 h) throughout a one-year period. Regarding sera collected during 09:00-10:00 h from the female, cortisol concentrations showed cyclic changes having about 4-month intervals. In males, cortisol showed higher concentrations in winter and lower concentrations during the summer season. There was a negative correlation between cortisol and progesterone levels in the female and a negative correlation was also observed between cortisol and testosterone in male no. 2. In the female and male no. 1, cortisol levels during 09:00-10:00 h were significantly higher than those during 16:00-17:00 h, and their data are considered to support observations regarding diurnal changes in cortisol levels in the two cetacean species.
Cognitive and somatic symptoms of depression are associated with medical comorbidity in patients after acute myocardial infarction.	Depression is common in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and is associated with adverse health outcomes. However, the extent to which clinical depression is related to comorbid medical conditions is unknown. This study examined the degree of association between clinical depression and medical comorbidity in patients hospitalized with AMI.
Arg389Gly polymorphism of the human beta1-adrenergic receptor in patients with nonfatal acute myocardial infarction.	We sought to investigate the relation between the Arg389Gly polymorphism in the human beta1-adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) gene and acute myocardial infarction (AMI). It was previously reported that augmented sympathetic activity might play an important role as a trigger of AMI by enhanced hemodynamic or mechanical forces through ADRB1 activation. Recently, a common polymorphism has been identified at amino acid position 389 (Arg or Gly) of the human ADRB1, within a region important for receptor-Gs protein coupling and subsequent agonist-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activation.
Effect of folic acid on fenofibrate-induced elevation of homocysteine and cysteine.	An elevated total plasma homocysteine (tHcy) level is considered to be an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis. It has been reported that lipid-lowering therapy with fibric acid derivatives (fibrates) increases tHcy and total plasma cysteine (tCys) levels. The aim of this study was to determine whether therapy with folic acid, a potent tHcy-lowering agent, could modify the fenofibrate-induced elevation of plasma aminothiols.
Prevalence of self-reported heart failure among US adults: results from the 1999 National Health Interview Survey.	The objective of the present study was to determine the prevalence of self-reported heart failure among US adults.
Beneficial effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and nitrate association on left ventricular remodeling in patients with large acute myocardial infarction: the Delapril Remodeling after Acute Myocardial Infarction (DRAMI) trial.	In the large-scale trial, Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto Miocardico-3 (GISSI-3), patients receiving the combination of lisinopril and glyceryl trinitrate benefited most from experimental therapy. Therefore, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind study, Delapril Remodeling After Acute Myocardial Infarction (DRAMI), was designed to assess (1) the possible additive beneficial effect on left ventricular remodeling of nitrates when combined with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), and (2) the tolerability of a new ACEI, delapril, in respect to lisinopril in patients with large myocardial infarction (MI).
Valvular and thoracic aortic calcium as a marker of the extent and severity of angiographic coronary artery disease.	The presence of calcified extracoronary structures as a useful indicator of underlying coronary artery disease (CAD) has not yet been established. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether valvular and thoracic aortic calcification is associated with obstructive CAD.
Monitoring human radiation exposure by gene expression profiling: possibilities and pitfalls.	Advances in high throughput analysis of mRNA expression have made it possible to establish gene expression profiles for different cells, tissues, diseases and exposure states. For instance, recent studies have demonstrated the utility of such an approach to classify sub-types of cancers with more detail than was previously possible. In addition, gene expression studies of ionizing radiation exposure both in vitro and in vivo are affording insight into the molecular mechanisms of mammalian radiation response. We have demonstrated that radiation expression profiles are a good predictor of p53 function in cell lines, and such profiles also indicate a major role for p53-regulated genes in the in vivo radiation response. Gene expression can be a sensitive indicator of radiation response as we have shown linear dose-responses for induction of several genes down to doses as low as 2 cGy. As profiles are established from radiation studies, it is hoped that they may be useful for identifying individuals with specific exposures or predisposition to negative outcome of exposure. Although this technology holds great promise, some obstacles remain to be overcome before it can be successfully applied to population studies.
Post hoc analysis of data from the Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) trial on the effects of three years of raloxifene treatment on glycemic control and cardiovascular disease risk factors in women with and without type 2 diabetes.	The long-term effects of the selective estrogen-receptor modulator raloxifene hydrochloride on glycemic control and markers of cardiovascular disease risk in postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes mellitus are unknown.
Determination of three-bond scalar coupling between 13C' and 1H(alpha) in proteins using an iHN(CA),CO(alpha/beta-J-COHA) experiment.	Triple-resonance NMR experiments for measuring three-bond scalar coupling constant between 13C' (i-1) and 1H(alpha)(i) spins, defining the dihedral angle phi, are presented. The novel experiments enable the measurement of 3JC'H(alpha)) from simple two (or three)-dimensional 13C', (15N/13C(alpha)), 1H(N) correlation spectra with minimal resonance overlap, thanks to solely intraresidual coherence transfer pathway and spin-state-selection. The 3J(C'H(alpha)) values measured in human ubiquitin using the proposed intraresidual iHN(CA),CO(alpha/beta-J-COHA) TROSY method were compared with those determined previously utilizing the HCAN[C'] experiment.
SNR-optimality of sum-of-squares reconstruction for phased-array magnetic resonance imaging.	We consider the commonly used "Sum-of-Squares" (SoS) reconstruction method for phased-array magnetic resonance imaging with unknown coil sensitivities. We show that the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in the image produced by SoS is asymptotically (as the input SNR--> infinity ) equal to that of maximum-ratio combining, which is the best unbiased reconstruction method when the coil sensitivities are known. Finally, we discuss the implications of this result.
Thermodynamic calculations and statistical correlations for oligo-probes design.	Optimization of probe design for array-based experiments requires improved predictability of oligonucleotide hybridization behavior. Currently, designing oligonucleotides capable of interacting efficiently and specifically with the relevant target is not a routine procedure. Multiple examples demonstrate that oligonucleotides targeting different regions of the same RNA differ in their hybridization ability. The present work shows how thermodynamic evaluations of oligo-target duplex or oligo self-structure stabilities can facilitate probe design. Statistical analysis of large sets of hybridization data reveals that thermodynamic evaluation of oligonucleotide properties can be used to avoid poor RNA binders. Thermodynamic criteria for the selection of 20 and 21mers, which, with high probability, interact efficiently and specifically with their targets, are suggested. The design of longer oligonucleotides can also be facilitated by the same calculations of DeltaG(o) (T) values for oligo-target duplex or oligo self-structure stabilities and similar selection schemes.
Detection of symptom exaggeration with the MMPI-2 in litigants with malingered neurocognitive dysfunction.	MMPI-2 scores of 26 persons identified as meeting criteria for definite malingered neurocognitive dysfunction (MND), were contrasted with the MMPI-2 scores of 29 persons who had suffered moderate or severe closed head injury. The Lees-Haley Fake Bad Scale (FBS) was the most sensitive MMPI-2 scale in discriminating the malingerers from the head-injured persons, with additional significant differences obtained on standard MMPI-2 clinical scales including Scales 1 (Hs), 2 (D), 3 (Hy), 7 (Pt), and 8 (Sc). Correlational analyses on a larger sample combining additional subjects with evidence of possible or probable MND, with the original sample and the head injured subjects, demonstrated the concurrent validity of the FBS, which correlated with the Portland Digit Recognition Test (PDRT), and with Scales 1 (Hs), 2 (D), 3 (Hy), and 7 (Pt) of the MMPI-2.
Extraction of correlated gene clusters from multiple genomic data by generalized kernel canonical correlation analysis.	A major issue in computational biology is the reconstruction of pathways from several genomic datasets, such as expression data, protein interaction data and phylogenetic profiles. As a first step toward this goal, it is important to investigate the amount of correlation which exists between these data.
A hospitalwide intervention program to optimize the quality of antibiotic use: impact on prescribing practice, antibiotic consumption, cost savings, and bacterial resistance.	Several findings from Argentina provide compelling evidence of the need for more rational use of antimicrobial agents. Thus, a multidisciplinary antimicrobial treatment committee for the development of a hospital-wide intervention program was formed to optimize the quality of antibiotic use in hospitals. Four successive steps were developed during 6-month periods: baseline data collection, introduction of a prescription form, education, and prescribing control. Sustained reduction of drug consumption was shown during the study (R2=0.6885; P=.01). Total cost savings was 913,236 US dollars. To estimate the consumption of cefepime and aminopenicillin-sulbactam in relation to that of the third-generation cephalosporins, 2 indices were calculated: Icfp and Iams, respectively. Decreasing resistance to ceftriaxone by Proteus mirabilis and Enterobacter cloacae proved to be associated with increasing Icfp. Decreasing rates of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus were related to increasing Iams. The present study indicates that a systematic program performed by a multidisciplinary team is a cost-effective strategy for optimizing antibiotic prescribing.
An international prospective study of pneumococcal bacteremia: correlation with in vitro resistance, antibiotics administered, and clinical outcome.	We performed a prospective, international, observational study of 844 hospitalized patients with blood cultures positive for Streptococcus pneumoniae. Fifteen percent of isolates had in vitro intermediate susceptibility to penicillin (minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC], 0.12-1 microg/mL), and 9.6% of isolates were resistant (MIC, >or=2 microg/mL). Age, severity of illness, and underlying disease with immunosuppression were significantly associated with mortality; penicillin resistance was not a risk factor for mortality. The impact of concordant antibiotic therapy (i.e., receipt of a single antibiotic with in vitro activity against S. pneumoniae) versus discordant therapy (inactive in vitro) on mortality was assessed at 14 days. Discordant therapy with penicillins, cefotaxime, and ceftriaxone (but not cefuroxime) did not result in a higher mortality rate. Similarly, time required for defervescence and frequency of suppurative complications were not associated with concordance of beta-lactam antibiotic therapy. beta-Lactam antibiotics should still be useful for treatment of pneumococcal infections that do not involve cerebrospinal fluid, regardless of in vitro susceptibility, as determined by current NCCLS breakpoints.
Complications of mandibular fractures in an urban teaching center.	In this study, we compared the complications associated with open and closed treatment of mandibular fractures in an urban teaching center over a 4-year period.
The structure of the pineal complex in a common Indian teleost, Catla catla: evidence for pineal-induced inhibition of testicular function within an annual reproductive cycle.	The structure of the pineal complex and the annual reproductive cycle in a major Indian carp, Catla catla, were investigated in the present study. Additionally, given the well-known inhibitory effects of the pineal on reproductive function in mammals, attempts were made to investigate whether or not the pineal exerts an inhibitory influence on reproductive function in this piscine species as well. Sexually adult animals were utilized in all experiments. The cytomorphology of the pineal complex and a number of parameters for testicular function--such as testicular cytology, serum testosterone levels, and testicular activities of two steroidogenic enzymes, 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) and delta5-3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (delta5-3beta-HSD) were examined over a period of two years. Our studies showed that the pineal complex in this species consists of three separate but distinctly connected components: (a) an end vesicle (EV); (b) a long pineal stalk (PS); and (c) a dorsal sac (DS). Of these, the epithelial lining of the EV consists of cells that have rounded vesicular nuclei and long apical cytoplasmic processes that reach the lumen, features suggestive of photoreceptor cells. The cells of the PS have some similarity with those of the EV, while DS cells appear columnar and ciliated. With regard to gonadal activity, germ cell profiles revealed that this species has four distinct phases during the annual reproductive cycle: (a) preparatory (January-April); (b) pre-spawning (May-June); (c) spawning (July); and (d) post-spawning (August-December). During the spawning phase (July), seminiferous tubular diameter, percentage of late spermatids within seminiferous tubules, and serum testosterone levels showed the highest values compared to those obtained in most of the other phases of the reproductive cycle. Also in July, along with peak serum testosterone levels, the activities of 17beta-HSD and delta5-3beta-HSD were at their highest levels. In a correlation between the pineal cytology and testicular functional status, it was noted that both the nuclear diameter and the apical cytoplasmic projections of the EV photoreceptor cells showed a significant reduction, thus suggesting a reduced synthetic activity, during the month of July, the spawning phase of the reproductive cycle. In contrast, the same features of the EV cells during the other phases of the reproductive cycle showed an increased cellular and metabolic activity--a time when the gonads were less active and in a quiescent stage. These data suggest an inhibitory role of the pineal on gonadal function and thus provide additional credence to the concept that, as in higher mammals, there exists an inverse relationship between the pineal activity and gonadal function in teleost fishes as well.
Applying the right statistics: analyses of measurement studies.	The study of measurement error, observer variation and agreement between different methods of measurement are frequent topics in the imaging literature. We describe the problems of some applications of correlation and regression methods to these studies, using recent examples from this literature. We use a simulated example to show how these problems and misinterpretations arise. We describe the 95% limits of agreement approach and a similar, appropriate, regression technique. We discuss the difference vs. mean plot, and the pitfalls of plotting difference against one variable only. We stress that these are questions of estimation, not significance tests, and show how confidence intervals can be found for these estimates.
Reduction of 14-3-3 proteins correlates with increased sensitivity to killing of human lung cancer cells by ionizing radiation.	The 14-3-3 proteins have a wide range of ligands and are involved in a variety of biological pathways. Importantly, 14-3-3 proteins are known to be overexpressed in some human lung cancers, suggesting that they may play a role in tumorigenesis. Here we examined 14-3-3 expression in several lung cancer-derived cell lines and found that four of the seven 14-3-3 isoforms, beta, epsilon, theta and zeta, were highly expressed in both lung cancer cell lines and normal lung fibroblasts. Two isoforms, sigma and gamma, were present only at very low levels. Immunoprecipitation data showed 14-3-3zeta could bind to CDC25C in irradiated A549 cells, and suppression of 14-3-3zeta in A549 cells with antisense resulted in a decrease in CDC25C localization in cytoplasm and CDC2 phosphorylation on Tyr15. As a consequence, CDC2 activity remained elevated which resulted in release from radiation-induced G(2)/M-phase arrest. Moreover, 16% 14-3-3zeta antisense-transfected cells underwent apoptosis when exposed to 10 Gy ionizing radiation. These data indicate that 14-3-3zeta is involved in G(2) checkpoint activation and that inhibition of 14-3-3 may be a useful approach to sensitize human lung cancers to ionizing radiation.
Factors associated with a reduced CD4 lymphocyte count response to HAART despite full viral suppression in the EuroSIDA study.	To describe the prevalence and risk factors of poor CD4 count rise despite a good virological response on highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART).
Direct costs of ankylosing spondylitis and its determinants: an analysis among three European countries.	To assess direct costs associated with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). To determine which variables, including country, predict costs.
Tubular adenoma and intramucosal intestinal-type adenocarcinoma of the stomach: what are the pathobiological differences?	The concept of human early gastric cancer has discrepancies among pathologists worldwide. Recently, a novel morphological classification of gastrointestinal intramucosal neoplasias was proposed and conceptual differences have gradually decreased. However, there are few studies on the differences of pathobiological properties among the intraepithelial neoplasms. The aim of the present study was to clarify the clinicopathological significance of gastric intramucosal tumors from the pathobiological viewpoint.
Western body mass indices need not compromise outcomes after modified D2 gastrectomy for carcinoma.	To determine the role of body mass index (BMI) in a Western population on outcomes after modified D2 gastrectomy (preserving pancreas and spleen where possible) for gastric cancer.
Loss of expression of DNA repair enzymes MGMT, hMLH1, and hMSH2 during tumor progression in gastric cancer.	Disorders of the DNA repair system that protects against alkylating mutagens are known to play an important role in carcinogenesis.
Correlation of matrix metalloproteinase-2, -9, tissue inhibitor-1 of matrix metalloproteinase and CD44 variant 6 in head and neck cancer metastasis.	This study aimed to explore the molecular mechanism in tumor invasion and metastasis. The expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2, -9 (MMP-2, MMP-9), tissue inhibitor-1 of matrix metalloproteinase (TIMP-1), cell adhesion molecule 44 variant 6 (CD44v6), HER2/neu and p53 was investigated in 154 patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) by ABC and ImmunoMax immunohistochemical method. Their clinical relevance and correlation were analysed. The expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1, CD44v6, HER2/neu and p53 was found in cancer cells in 87.01%, 85.71%, 68.18%, 98.05%, 55.19% and 50.65% cases respectively. Linear regression and correlation analysis revealed that there was close positive relationship (P<0.05) between the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9, TIMP-1 and CD44v6, HER2/neu and MMP-9, MMP-2 and p53. Up-regulation of MMP-2 was accompanied by advanced T stage (P<0.01). There was also a trend of MMP-2 expression being related with tumor metastasis. Increased expression of HER2/neu was found in patients with tumor recurrence(P<0.05). The expression of TIMP-1 was higher in laryngeal cancer than that in pharyngeal cancer, and higher in keratinizing and non-keratinizing SCC than that in basaloid SCC(P<0.05). These findings suggested that MMP-2 and MMP-9, HER2/neu and MMP-9, MMP-2 and p53 had a coordinate function in aggression of tumor; that MMP-2 had a more important function than MMP-9 in tumor invasion and metastasis; and that HER2/neu might serve as a biomarker for poor prognosis in HNSCC.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activation during the Valsalva maneuver: interpretive and analytical caveats.	We investigated the relationship between arterial pressure and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) to test the hypothesis that the Valsalva maneuver may be used to estimate magnitudes of sympathetic baroreflex activation.
Spectral phase estimates in the setting of multidirectional coupling.	In this paper we explore conventional techniques for estimating the time lag between two signals, using both time and frequency domain measures. We generate test signals to illustrate that in general, estimated temporal relationships between neural sites connected by multiple pathways are ambiguous except in special cases where multidirectional flow of information can be ruled out a priori. Signals are analyzed using the cross correlogram in the time domain, and coherence, phase and directed transfer function (DTF) in the frequency domain. In particular, we show how similar phase and DTF measures can be obtained from qualitatively different dynamical situations (uni and bi-directional flow), and argue that although the phase and DTF combined provide more directionality information than phase alone, one still needs to observe caution if one suspects multidirectional flow.
Alteration of left ventriculo-arterial coupling and mechanical efficiency during acute myocardial ischemia.	Myocardial revascularisation being frequently performed during acute myocardial ischemia, in a hostile hemodynamic environment, we evaluated left ventriculo-arterial (VA) coupling, left ventricular (LV) mechanical efficiency, and the mechanical properties of the systemic vasculature during acute myocardial ischemia.
Platelets' glycoproteins and their ligands in patients with intermittent claudication.	Platelet thrombi play critical role in pathogenesis of cardiovascular complications in atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease (PAOD). The aim of this study was to evaluate the concentration of platelets GP IIb/IIIa, GP I b/IX and plasma levels of their ligands (fibrinogen and vWF) and their relation to other atherosclerotic risk factors in the patients with intermittent claudication secondary to PAOD.
Global venous function correlates better than duplex derived reflux to clinical class in the evaluation of chronic venous disease.	To compare the symptoms and signs of patients with chronic venous disease with the objective results of duplex ultrasound and plethysmography (foot volumetry).
Postoperative increase in soluble interleukin-2 receptor serum levels as predictor for early recurrence in non-small cell lung carcinoma.	It is known that interleukin-2 (IL-2) plays an important role in the activation of host antitumor immune response. In addition to IL-2 cell surface receptor, a soluble form of IL-2 receptor (SIL-2R) may be released in the blood and potentially be involved in the regulation of IL-2 availability. High SIL-2R levels have been found in patients with lung cancer. The current study evaluated the influence of changes in SIL-2R serum levels during the perioperative period on early relapse rate in patients with operable non-small cell lung cancer. The study included 60 patients (epidermoid carcinoma, 33; adenocarcinoma, 27). Serum levels of SIL-2R were measured with an enzyme immunoassay before surgery and 7 and 30 days after surgery. A surgery-induced increase in SIL-2R levels was seen 7 days after surgery in 38 of 60 patients. On the 30th day after surgery, SIL-2R values were lower than the preoperative values in 32 patients (Group A) or still greater in the other 28 patients (Group B). After a median follow-up of 10 months, relapse occurred in 19 of 60 patients. The relapse rate was significantly higher in Group B than in Group A patients (16 of 28 versus 3 of 32, respectively; P less than 0.001). This difference also was significant in relation to histotype and node status. This study shows that the persistence of increased SIL-2R levels in the postoperative period is associated with a higher early relapse rate in patients with operable non-small cell lung cancer. The impact of SIL-2R levels on relapse suggests that host immune defenses may influence the clinical course of patients with lung cancer. Therefore, the evaluation of SIL-2R in the perioperative period may represent a new prognostic biologic factor in operable non-small cell lung cancer.
Alterations of benzodiazepine receptor binding in tremor rats with absence-like seizures.	Tremor rats begin to exhibit clinical or electrical absence-like seizures after 6 weeks of age, and by 14 weeks of age, all have seizures. Central-type benzodiazepine receptor binding was investigated in tremor rats and control rats, aged 4 weeks and 16 weeks. Significantly lower benzodiazepine receptor density and no differences in affinity were found in the hippocampus of the tremor rats in comparison with that of control rats at both ages. This abnormality is considered to be due to a tremor gene and may be the cause of absence-like seizures in tremor rats. A significantly lower receptor density was found in the cerebellum at 4 weeks of age in the tremor rats than in the control rats. These changes may be related to tremorous movements in the tremor rats. Receptor density was significantly lower in the brainstems of tremor rats and control rats at 16 weeks of age than at 4 weeks of age, and the decrease was more marked in control rats. These facts may reflect a reduced decrease in the response to the dysfunction of gamma-aminobutyric acidergic neurons, or the function of the gamma-aminobutyric acid/benzodiazepine receptor system may be secondarily increased to suppress seizures in 16-week-old tremor rats.
Children at familial risk for obesity: an examination of dietary intake, physical activity and weight status.	A large cohort of children was divided into two groups based on their parents' weight status. The high risk group had one or two overweight parent(s) (n = 92, 4.4 +/- 0.5 years), while the low risk group had no parent overweight (n = 95, 4.5 +/- 0.5 years). Weight of the two groups was similar at the start of the study but the high risk group gained marginally more weight over a one year period (P = 0.05). Although total energy intake was similar, the high risk group was consuming a larger percentage of energy from fat (P = 0.0004) and a smaller percentage from carbohydrate (P = 0.0002). Observed physical activity as similar for most levels but marginally higher for the stationary level and marginally lower in total activity in the high risk group. These results suggest a pattern that may lead to increased weight gain in a high risk group as they grow older.
A sequential procedure for a phase II efficacy trial in hypercholesterolemia.	The design of a phase II placebo-controlled efficacy trial to evaluate a new treatment for hypercholesterolemia using a sequential procedure is presented. The sequential procedure used is the triangular test which offers flexibility of monitoring and allows early stopping even when the null hypothesis is "accepted." The primary response is reduction in total serum cholesterol level, which is assumed to be normally distributed with unknown variance. The treatment difference is parameterized in terms of the standardized difference between the means. The accuracy of the error rates of the triangular test using this parameterization is compared with the test based on the difference between the means.
Sample size determination based on Fisher's Exact Test for use in 2 x 2 comparative trials with low event rates.	A collection of sample size tables are presented for designing comparative trials when the event rates p1 and p2 are low. The tables are based on exact power calculations for Fisher's Exact Test. Both one-sided and two-sided alternative hypotheses are considered. A comparison is made between these sample sizes and those obtained by using popular asymptotic approximations.
A method of assigning scores to the components of a composite outcome: an example from the MITI trial.	After obtaining expert opinion to assign weights to the individual components of a composite outcome, scores are assigned in such a way as to reflect these weights as well as to optimize the power for specified alternatives.
Testosterone and spermatogenesis. Identification of stage-specific, androgen-regulated proteins secreted by adult rat seminiferous tubules.	The aim of this study was to identify potential androgen-regulated proteins (ARP) that might mediate the supportive effects of testosterone on spermatogenesis. Adult rats were injected with ethane dimethane sulphonate (EDS) to destroy Leydig cells and thus induce complete testosterone withdrawal. Other EDS-treated rats were injected with 25 mg testosterone esters (TE) every 3 days to maintain quantitatively normal spermatogenesis. A timeframe for the study of androgen action on spermatogenesis was deduced from enumeration of degenerating germ cells at stage VII of the spermatogenic cycle in perfusion-fixed testes from rats in the early stages (4 to 8 days) after EDS treatment. Based on this data and changes in testicular interstitial fluid volume, long seminiferous tubule segments were isolated from control rats and from EDS-treated rats (+/- TE-supplementation) at stages II-V, VI-VIII, or IX-XII, 2 days to 6 days after EDS treatment. Seminiferous tubule segments were incubated for 22 hours with 60 microCi 35S-labelled methionine. Incorporation into newly synthesized proteins in the seminiferous tubule culture medium (= secreted proteins) or in seminiferous tubule lysates (= intracellular proteins) was determined by trichloroacetic acid-precipitation followed by analysis using two-dimensional sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In control rats, incorporation of 35S-methionine into proteins secreted by isolated seminiferous tubules was more than twice as great at stages VI-VIII than at stages II-V or IX-XII. This doubling in methionine incorporation into stages VI-VIII secreted proteins was abolished, however, 4 days after EDS treatment (when germ cell degeneration at stage VII was only just evident). A similar change occurred 4 days after testosterone withdrawal induced by immunoneutralization of luteinizing hormone. In the latter case and after EDS treatment, TE-supplementation of rats from day 0 maintained the normal control pattern of methionine incorporation into seminiferous tubule secreted proteins, although 6 days after EDS and TE treatment, incorporation into stages VI-VIII secreted proteins was 19% lower (P less than 0.05) than in the control group. In contrast, incorporation of methionine into proteins secreted by seminiferous tubules at stages II-V and IX-XII was unaffected by EDS and TE pretreatment, as was incorporation into intracellular proteins at all stages.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Habitual fish consumption, plasma phospholipid fatty acids, and serum lipids: the Tromsø study.	We examined the cross-sectional relationships between the frequency of habitual fish consumption, plasma phospholipid fatty acids, and serum lipids and lipoproteins in 152 men and women. There was a significant association between fish consumption starting from 1 dish/wk and plasma n-3, n-6, and n-9 fatty acids. Plasma eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; 20: 5n-3) reflected fish consumption to a greater extent than did docosahexaenoic acid (DHA;22:6n-3). Triglycerides decreased (P less than 0.05) with fish consumption. In multivariate analysis in which anthropometric and lifestyle factors were controlled for, EPA correlated inversely with triglycerides (P less than 0.05) and positively with high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I (both P less than 0.001). In contrast, DHA did not correlate with triglycerides and showed negative associations to HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I (both P less than 0.001). Platelet phospholipid EPA, but not DHA, was associated with lower triglyceride and higher HDL-cholesterol concentrations (both P less than 0.05). This study suggests that long-term intake of small amounts of fish has biological effects, and that EPA and DHA have divergent relations with lipoprotein metabolism.
Critical study of consensus analysis.	Consensus analysis has been proposed as a statistical method by which the efficacy of clinical and laboratory tests of inflammatory activity can be assessed. This technique is claimed to overcome the need for an external "gold standard" as a reference method; instead, the consensus of all tests is used as the gold standard. We have evaluated the reliability of consensus analysis using data collected from patients with Crohn's disease. Our results demonstrate that the technique depends strongly on the correlation structure underlying the set of measures of disease used for analysis. This observation was supported by a series of conventional cluster analyses of the same set of variables. Furthermore, slight modifications of the algorithm had profound effects on the final result. We conclude that for the evaluation of tests of inflammatory activity, an external reference method, albeit an imperfect one, remains indispensable.
Differential sensitivity of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in chick embryos treated intracerebrally with ethanol at 8 days of embryonic age.	We have shown that in embryos treated with ethanol in ovo during days 1-3, a critical period of neuroembryogenesis, cholinergic neuronal phenotypic expression is decreased whereas GABAergic and catecholaminergic neuronal populations are increased as assessed by neuronal markers choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) respectively. In this study, ethanol was administered intracerebrally to embryos at embryonic day 8, embryos were sacrificed at day 9 and ChAT and GAD activities assayed separately in cerebral hemispheres and remaining brain (diencephalon-midbrain and optic lobes). We found that ChAT activity was enhanced in the cerebral hemispheres only, whereas GAD activity was decreased in both cerebral hemispheres and remaining brain. We have concluded that the differential responses of neuronal phenotypes to ethanol may reflect compensatory mechanisms to ethanol insult. Moreover, these findings emphasize the vulnerability of the GABAergic neuronal phenotypes to ethanol neurotoxicity during early brain development in the chick.
Single local interneurons in the locust make central synapses with different properties of transmitter release on distinct postsynaptic neurons.	Quantal analysis has been applied to the inhibitory synapses made by single spiking local interneurons onto several nonspiking local interneurons (and motorneurons) in the locust CNS. Transmission at these synapses appears to be mediated by GABA. The apparent reversal potential of the IPSP and inhibitory postsynaptic current were -80 to -85 mV, a value similar to that of the potential evoked by pressure-applied GABA. This reversal potential was 25-30 mV more negative than the resting potential of the nonspiking interneurons in the experimental conditions. The statistical properties of release at these synapses were studied by recording simultaneously from pre- and postsynaptic interneurons with intracellular electrodes. The distribution of postsynaptic potential amplitudes could be described by a simple binomial model, implying uniformity of binomial p (probability of release at a single release site) for each synapse. The mean quantal amplitude was 290 +/- 110 microV, and the mean quantal content m of the IPSPs was 6.25 +/- 2.83. The mean values of binomial n (average size of the releasable pool) and p were 13.11 +/- 2.8 and 0.45 +/- 0.16, respectively. Numerical simulations of statistical experiments were performed to test whether the IPSP amplitude distribution histograms might be misleadingly indicative of quantal release. These simulations showed that such a hypothesis was very unlikely. When a spiking local interneuron was impaled, several of its target interneurons could sometimes be successively sampled. Quantal analysis was then performed with the different IPSPs evoked, in identical conditions, by a same presynaptic interneuron, and the quantal parameters were compared between the synapses. It was found that binomials n and p and their product m generally differed between the synapses made by a given spiking interneuron onto different target neurons. These results show that quantal contents can vary for the many synapses made centrally by one interneuron, and suggest that this variability may arise from differences in release probabilities between the sites associated with different synapses.
The genotoxicity of the anti-cancer drug mitoxantrone in somatic and germ cells of Drosophila melanogaster.	The novel antineoplastic drug mitoxantrone was studied for its genotoxic effects in Drosophila melanogaster. In male germ cells, the clinical preparation Novantrone, the dihydrochloride salt of mitoxantrone, did not induce sex-linked recessive lethal mutations in feeding and injection experiments with adult flies, although statistically the results were inconclusive rather than truly negative. However, the free base mitoxantrone was weakly, but significantly genotoxic in this test (0.14% lethals/mM exposure concentration); this is most probably the result of prolonged exposure. On the other hand, both forms of mitoxantrone assayed were clearly genotoxic in the somatic mutation and recombination test of the wing. This test assays the cells of the proliferating imaginal wing discs of larvae. Depending on the feeding method used, the overall clone induction frequency was in the range of about 2-6 x 10(-5) per cell and cell generation and per mM exposure dose. Correction of these frequencies according to mean clone size led to slightly higher estimates (by about 5-25% higher). Although the majority of the clone induction events are due to mitotic recombination, a significant proportion can be attributed to mutational events (gene and chromosome mutations). The genotoxicity of mitoxantrone seems to depend mainly on impaired DNA synthesis in cycling cells owing to the compound's ability to inhibit topoisomerase II by intercalation into DNA.
Statistical methods for short-term tests in genetic toxicology: the first fifteen years.	Short-term tests (STTs) for detecting and assessing genotoxic or mutagenic effects have catalyzed the development of biostatistical methods for more than one decade. Most notably, the Ames Salmonella/microsome assay created statistical methodology with a range of applications going beyond genotoxicity. Early approaches with parametric statistical methods appeared to be insufficient and have been replaced by non-parametric ones requiring less restrictive distributional assumptions. There have also been successful attempts to use biomathematical models for establishing dose-response relationships. Overdispersion has been recognized as a major problem for the evaluation of mutagenic count data and methods to cope with it have became available. A theory of generalized linear modelling is emerging to combine dose-response modeling with much less restrictive distributional assumptions, while allowing the inclusion of concomitant factors arising from the experimental conditions. The methodological survey below reviews the present state of this development and is intended to promote further research into biostatistical issues and methods of analysis. Appropriate methods for the design and analysis of STTs are discussed. The progress for the Ames assay was only partially transmitted to the analysis of the large number of other short-term assays. Several such assays are reviewed with respect to their present state of statistical evaluation.
Static and dynamic fusimotor action on the response of Ia fibres to low frequency sinusoidal stretching of widely ranging amplitude.	1. Single fusimotor fibres were stimulated repetitively to test their action on the responsiveness of muscle spindle primary endings in the cat soleus to sinusoidal stretching of both large and small amplitude. Frequencies of 0.06-4 Hz were used at amplitudes from 10 mum to 3 mm.2. The response was assessed by fitting a sinusoid to the cycle histogram of the afferent firing throughout the course of the cycle; this linear approximation measures the fundamental of the response and ignores any harmonics. The sine was allowed to project to negative values and any empty bins in the histogram were ignored when fitting.3. With small amplitudes of stretching the histograms were reasonably sinusoidal, but with large amplitudes they showed appreciable distortion of the wave form for the passive ending and during dynamic fusimotor stimulation. Non-linearity of response manifested itself also, with increasing amplitude of stretching, by an increase in the phase advance of the response, by increasing r.m.s. deviation of the histogram points from the fitted sine and (for dynamic stimulation) by an increase in the mean value of the fitted sine.4. With increasing amplitude the response modulation ceased to increase proportionately with the stimulus, so that the sensitivity of the ending to a large stretch (defined as afferent modulation/stretch amplitude) was appreciably less than for a small stretch. This effect was most pronounced for the passive ending.5. Whatever the amplitude of movement the modulation during static stimulation was less than that for the passive or during dynamic stimulation. For small amplitudes the response during dynamic stimulation was less than that of the passive, but for large amplitudes the response during dynamic stimulation was always the greater. At some intermediate cross-over amplitude the two responses were the same size, though still differing slightly in other respects. The value of the cross-over amplitude was usually about 200 mum at 1 Hz, and increased on lowering the frequency. Thus dynamic fusimotor action does not uniformly produce either an increase or a decrease in the sensitivity of the ending in relation to the passive.6. Bode plots, for each amplitude, of sensitivity and phase against frequency suggested that(a) under all conditions the ending is relatively insensitive to frequency in the range studied, for the slope of the log-log sensitivity lines was only 0.15-0.2 (3.5-6 db/decade);(b) the mechanism which makes for non-linearity is not particularly frequency sensitive;(c) static fusimotor stimulation does not change the frequency sensitivity of the ending;(d) dynamic fusimotor stimulation very slightly increases the frequency sensitivity of the ending for large amplitudes.In reaching these conclusions more attention was paid to the slope of the sensitivity lines than to the values of phase.7. It appears that the major effect of fusimotor action, whether static or dynamic, is to regulate the sensitivity of the primary ending to stretching for all amplitudes of movement (i.e. gain) rather than to control the relative values of its sensitivity to length and to velocity (i.e. crudely, the damping in a feed-back loop).
Effects of combining static and dynamic fusimotor stimulation on the response of the muscle spindle primary ending to sinusoidal stretching.	1. A pair of fusimotor fibres, one static and the other dynamic, were stimulated simultaneously to test their combined action on the response of muscle spindle primary endings in the cat soleus to sinusoidal stretching. A frequency of 1 Hz was chiefly used, with a wide range of amplitudes (10 micronm-2 mm). The response of the ending was assessed from the parameters of the sine fitted to its firing averaged throughout the course of the cycle; this was felt useful even though the responses to the larger stretches showed certain non-linear features. 2. With small stretches (up to about 50 micronm amplitude) static action dominated, and the modulation of firing during conbined stimulation was little or no larger than that found during the static stimulation on its own, and much smaller than that found during the static stimulation on its own, and much smaller than that found during the dynamic stimulation. The phase of the response was, however, much the same for all three conditions. 3. With larger stretches the modulation with combined stimulation was intermediate between the values found on stimulating either fusimotor fibre on its own; the dynamic contribution increased progressively with the amplitude of stretching. 4. With larger stretches the phase of the response during combined stimulation was appreciably closer to that for static action than to that for dynamic action. But the differences between the various conditions were small (below 20 degrees) and seem attributable to various distortions of the response wave from away from a true sinusoid, rather than betokening a difference in the ratio of velocity to length sensitivity under the various conditions. This view was supported by the effects on phase of grading the rate of stimulation of one fusimotor fibre while holding that of the other constant. 5. Detailed comparison of the cycle histograms obtained under different conditions showed an interestingly asymmetrical pattern of summation and occlusion of the effects of the two kinds of fusimotor fibre. At the peak of the response to a large stretch static action summed with dynamic action, which was here the stronger, so that at this phase of the cycle the firing was greater with the combined stimulation than with either fibre on its own. But, in the trough of the response to the same stretch static action occluded any dynamic action, which was now the weaker, so that at this phase of the cycle the firing with combined stimulation was virtually the same as that with static stimulation on its own. With a small stretch, static action normally occluded dynamic action throughout the cycle; this is in line with the firing during static action now usually being greater than that during dynamic action for all phases of the cycle.
VARIETIES OF INFORMATION REQUESTS IN A MEDICAL LIBRARY.	In an analysis of the information requests received and recorded in the Cleveland Medical Library over a two-year period, the requests were classified in four groups according to whether they were direct inquiries (factual), indirect (subject), biographical and directory, or requests for verification of literature citations. An attempt was made to discover some of the major characteristics and the volume of activity in each class. The results reflect the information services supplied by a single library with its own unique clientele and functions, rather than provide a means of generalizing about information services in all libraries, although they may give us some useful insights. Detailed analyses are made of direct and of biographical and directory questions. The largest number of inquiries received were those in which literature references on a specified subject were requested (indirect inquiries); these represented over 50 percent of the total. Most of the requests in this category called for limited coverage (five articles or less) in the recent literature (not over five years). Requests for verification of citations ranked next with 25 percent of the total, followed by direct (factual) inquiries (12 percent) and biographical and directory inquiries (9 percent), although it is recognized that these last two classes are probably underrepresented in the sample.
BLOOD VISCOSITY IN HEALTHY SUBJECTS AND PATIENTS WITH CORONARY HEART DISEASE.	Viscosity of whole blood and plasma was measured in 258 apparently healthy subjects of both sexes from 5 to 60 years of age, and in 86 patients with unequivocal evidence of chronic coronary heart disease. Children and young healthy females had the lowest viscosity readings. Healthy young and middle-aged males had significantly higher blood viscosity than females. Patients with coronary heart disease had significantly higher blood viscosity values than healthy groups of the same sex. It is suggested that the higher viscosity of whole blood and of plasma is a contributory factor in development of clinical manifestations of coronary heart disease and possibly of the basic vascular lesion itself.
THE PRACTISING PHYSICIAN'S APPROACH TO THE EVALUATION OF NEW DRUGS.	Physicians have the difficult task of locating and evaluating information about the numerous new drugs that continually appear on the market, and this difficulty is magnified by the massive promotional efforts of pharmaceutical manufacturers. Doctors should use all possible sources of information, but the varied (and often subtle) forms of advertising must be recognized for what they are. Physicians also need to develop skill in interpreting clinical papers and in understanding a little of the uses and meanings of statistics. Most of all, they should have sufficient self-confidence to refrain from using any new drug until scientific evidence of its efficacy and safety is available.
THE PREMEDICAL STUDENT: HIS IDENTITY. CHARACTERISTICS OF A COHORT OF PREMEDICAL STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA.	A prospective study is currently being conducted of students who were freshmen at the University of British Columbia in 1961-1962. Three cohorts are being followed: 136 premedical students, 107 science students, and 136 persons comprising a sample of general arts students. At registration in 1961, the only demographic difference was that the Premedical cohort had a greater proportion of catholics and persons from upper occupational classes. Premedical students generally performed as well in high school as science students and better than general arts students, though the academic potential of science students as measured by achievement and aptitude tests was superior. Premedical students performed better on freshman examinations than the other cohorts, though a significantly larger proportion of science students (84.4%) actually passed into second year than of premedical students (75.0%). A disturbing observation was that by second year the Science cohort had recruited more than enough students to balance its losses, while the Premedical cohort had lost three times as many students as it recruited. The net effect was not much reduced by students who entered directly from senior matriculation or other universities, since these students were about twice as likely to enter the Science cohort as they were to enter the Premedical cohort.
THE MUSHROOM CROWD: SOCIAL AND POLITICAL ASPECTS OF POPULATION PRESSURE.	The meaning of population pressure is discussed and, with the help of a formula, its five main components (people, rate of increase of people, food-producing acreage, protein nutrition and industrialization) are analyzed.Factors which have eased population pressure in the past are considered under the headings of political violence (war and genocide), natural disaster (famine and disease), and social action (increased local protein supply, emigration, industrialization and birth control).Birth control is the first prerequisite to an easing of population pressure; the effectiveness of the Japanese and the Indian programs is discussed.The crippling burden of preventable disease, shown to be a major obstacle to the development of sophisticated industries, presents a challenge to Western medical men who so far have done little to meet it.
RED CELL GLUCOSE-6-PHOSPHATE DEHYDROGENASE DEFICIENCY--A NEWLY RECOGNIZED CAUSE OF NEONATAL JAUNDICE AND KERNICTERUS IN CANADA.	Seven male newborns of Chinese, Greek and Italian origin presented with severe hemolytic jaundice due to red cell glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency. In five, the hemolysis was precipitated by inhalation of mothball vapours in the home. Kernicterus was evident upon admission in six infants and was fatal in four of these.G-6-PD deficiency should be suspected as a cause of jaundice in all full-term male infants of these ethnic groups. The diagnosis can be confirmed in any hospital by the methemoglobin reduction test. In areas similar to Toronto, Canada, where these high-risk ethnic groups prevail, the following measures are recommended: (1) detection of G-6-PD deficient newborns by screening cord bloods of all infants of these ethnic groups; (2) protection of affected infants from potentially hemolytic agents such as naphthalene, certain vitamin K preparations, and sulfonamides; and (3) observation of serum bilirubin levels to assess the need for exchange transfusion for hyperbilirubinemia.
ESTIMATION OF THE LOW-DENSITY (BETA) LIPOPROTEINS OF SERUM IN HEALTH AND DISEASE USING LARGE MOLECULAR WEIGHT DEXTRAN SULPHATE.	Studies have been made of the factors affecting the specificity of the interaction between high molecular weight dextran sulphate and low-density lipoproteins, both in pure solution and in serum. The results have been used in the development of a simple assay method for the serum concentration of low-density lipoproteins in small volumes of serum. The results obtained by this assay procedure have been found to correlate acceptably with parallel estimations of low-density lipoproteins by an ultracentrifugal technique and by paper electrophoresis. The technique has been applied to a survey of serum levels of these proteins in a normal population. The results have been compared with data in the literature. Satisfactory agreement was found between mean levels, matched for age and sex, between the dextran sulphate method and those methods based ultimately on chemical estimation of one or more components of the isolated lipoproteins. A systematic difference was observed when the dextran sulphate method was compared with estimates based on analytical ultracentrifugation or turbidimetry using amylopectin sulphate.Some indication of the range of application of the dextran sulphate method in clinical chemistry is provided.
MEDICAL RADIATION TO CHILDREN WITH CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE.	A retrospective analysis was made of the source of medical radiation received by 25 children who were investigated by cardiac catheterization techniques and followed in the Cardiac Outpatient Clinic of the Health Centre for Children, Vancouver General Hospital. The source of radiation was analyzed. The r dose per year received from plane films averaged 0.05 r, from cardiac fluoroscopy 6.7 r, and from catheterization and angiocardiography studies 1.58 r per year. In six of the 25 children, radiation doses to the thorax exceeded the LD(50) for adult humans. In these six patients 95.8% of the radiation received was during cardiac fluoroscopy. Routine fluoroscopy for the radiological re-evaluation of pediatric patients with congenital heart disease should be replaced by plain chest radiographs.
CALIFORNIA CHIROPRACTORS. AN EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDY OF CAUSES OF DEATH AMONG THEM AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS.	Records of deaths among California chiropractors in a five-year period were studied to ascertain causes of death and other characteristics-especially because of the author's interest in ascertaining whether leukemia and other deleterious effects of ionizing radiation could be observed among this occupationally-exposed group. The findings do not permit a conclusion that the mortality experience of California chiropractors differs substantially from that of a similar population of non-chiropractors, but the finding of 1.68 times the expected leukemia mortality is in accord with previous studies which show increased leukemic mortality among populations which have had unusually great exposure to ionizing radiation. The finding that only 3 per cent of the death certificates of California chiropractors were signed by other chiropractors, and that 56 per cent were signed by doctors of medicine indicates that very few chiropractors seek diagnosis and treatment from other chiropractors when seriously or terminally ill.
COUNTING CALIFORNIA'S SNAKEBITES.	Poisonous snakebites happen in all sections of California, but they are especially frequent in Southern California. An estimated 221 (138 in-patients and 83 out-patients) people were bitten by snakes annually, an incidence of 1.41 bites per 100,000 people. However, the estimated case-fatality rate was less than one-half of one per cent. Of 135 in-patients reported in detail by California hospitals during 1958 and 1959, 123 (91 per cent) were bitten by rattlesnakes, one (1 per cent) by a foreign snake, and 11 (8 per cent) by unidentified poisonous snakes. "Seasonal epidemics" of snakebites occurred, 90 per cent of the bites being inflicted from April through October. Males had higher bite rates than females and Caucasians had higher rates than non-whites. Fifty per cent of the cases were among children and young adults less than 20 years of age. Ninety-nine per cent of the bites were on the extremities-65 per cent on the upper extremities and 34 per cent on the lower extremities. The recommended treatment of poisonous snakebites included incision and suction and the 3 A's (antivenin, antibiotics and antitetanus treatment).
POWASSAN VIRUS: SUMMER INFECTION CYCLE, 1964.	Between May 1, and September 15, 1964, neutralizing antibody to Powassan virus was detected in sera from 163 of 464 forest mammals captured in the Powassan-North Bay area of northern Ontario. These included 159 of 358 groundhogs and four of 43 red squirrels. Acquisition of antibody by juvenile groundhogs occurred principally during July and August. Powassan virus strains were isolated from tick pools containing two to 15 Ixodes cookei per pool which were removed from eight of 91 groundhogs in three townships during May, July and August. Virus was also recovered from blood of two groundhogs during May. Powassan virus was re-isolated from five of six tick pools and two blood clots by inoculation of swine kidney tissue cultures. These findings strongly suggest that during 1964 Powassan virus was maintained in nature by a cycle involving groundhogs and I. cookei ticks.
Long-lasting novelty-induced neuronal reverberation during slow-wave sleep in multiple forebrain areas.	The discovery of experience-dependent brain reactivation during both slow-wave (SW) and rapid eye-movement (REM) sleep led to the notion that the consolidation of recently acquired memory traces requires neural replay during sleep. To date, however, several observations continue to undermine this hypothesis. To address some of these objections, we investigated the effects of a transient novel experience on the long-term evolution of ongoing neuronal activity in the rat forebrain. We observed that spatiotemporal patterns of neuronal ensemble activity originally produced by the tactile exploration of novel objects recurred for up to 48 h in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, putamen, and thalamus. This novelty-induced recurrence was characterized by low but significant correlations values. Nearly identical results were found for neuronal activity sampled when animals were moving between objects without touching them. In contrast, negligible recurrence was observed for neuronal patterns obtained when animals explored a familiar environment. While the reverberation of past patterns of neuronal activity was strongest during SW sleep, waking was correlated with a decrease of neuronal reverberation. REM sleep showed more variable results across animals. In contrast with data from hippocampal place cells, we found no evidence of time compression or expansion of neuronal reverberation in any of the sampled forebrain areas. Our results indicate that persistent experience-dependent neuronal reverberation is a general property of multiple forebrain structures. It does not consist of an exact replay of previous activity, but instead it defines a mild and consistent bias towards salient neural ensemble firing patterns. These results are compatible with a slow and progressive process of memory consolidation, reflecting novelty-related neuronal ensemble relationships that seem to be context- rather than stimulus-specific. Based on our current and previous results, we propose that the two major phases of sleep play distinct and complementary roles in memory consolidation: pretranscriptional recall during SW sleep and transcriptional storage during REM sleep.
Alu repeat analysis in the complete human genome: trends and variations with respect to genomic composition.	Transposon-derived Alu repeats are exclusively associated with primate genomes. They have gained considerable importance in the recent times with evidence of their involvement in various aspects of gene regulation, e.g. alternative splicing, nucleosome positioning, CpG methylation, binding sites for transcription factors and hormone receptors, etc. The objective of this study is to investigate the factors that influence the distribution of Alu repeat elements in the human genome. Such analysis is expected to yield insights into various aspects of gene regulation in primates.
Protein secondary structure: entropy, correlations and prediction.	Is protein secondary structure primarily determined by local interactions between residues closely spaced along the amino acid backbone or by non-local tertiary interactions? To answer this question, we measure the entropy densities of primary and secondary structure sequences, and the local inter-sequence mutual information density.
Protein backbone angle prediction with machine learning approaches.	Protein backbone torsion angle prediction provides useful local structural information that goes beyond conventional three-state (alpha, beta and coil) secondary structure predictions. Accurate prediction of protein backbone torsion angles will substantially improve modeling procedures for local structures of protein sequence segments, especially in modeling loop conformations that do not form regular structures as in alpha-helices or beta-strands.
Spleen length in childhood with US: normal values based on age, sex, and somatometric parameters.	To investigate with ultrasonography (US) normal spleen length in healthy children.
Relationship of infarct size and severity versus left ventricular ejection fraction and volumes obtained from 99mTc-sestamibi gated single-photon emission computed tomography in patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention.	The current technique of choice for perfusion imaging is gated single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), which allows the simultaneous assessment of perfusion and left ventricular (LV) function. We examined the relationships of infarct size and severity with LV ejection fraction (EF) and volumes in 215 myocardial infarction patients treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention within 6 h of symptom onset. Patients were studied with resting gated SPECT 1 month later. Infarct size was expressed as LV percent, and infarct severity as the lowest activity ratio within the defect. LVEF, end-diastolic (ED) and end-systolic (ES) volume indexes (Vi) were calculated with commercial software. There was a significant correlation between infarct size and LVEF ( r=-0.68, P<0.00001), EDVi ( r=0.53, P<0.00001), and ESVi ( r=0.62, P<0.00001). Slightly lower correlations were demonstrated using infarct severity. LVEF and volumes were related to infarct location. A significantly higher correlation was observed between infarct size and LVEF in anterior than in non-anterior infarctions ( r=-0.75 vs -0.60, P<0.05). In multivariate analysis, infarct size and infarct location were significant predictors of LVEF ( R(2)=0.50) and ESV ( R(2)=0.40). Infarct size and infarct severity were significant predictors of EDVi ( R(2)=0.29). Infarct size (and severity) and LVEF (and volumes) derived from a single gated SPECT study correlate closely. Infarct location influences this relationship, with anterior infarctions showing a lower LVEF than inferior or lateral ones of the same extent.
The considerable genome size variation of Hordeum species (poaceae) is linked to phylogeny, life form, ecology, and speciation rates.	Genome size variation in plants is thought to be correlated with cytological, physiological, or ecological characters. However, conclusions drawn in several studies were often contradictory. To analyze nuclear genome size evolution in a phylogenetic framework, DNA contents of 134 accessions, representing all but one species of the barley genus Hordeum L., were measured by flow cytometry. The 2C DNA contents were in a range from 6.85 to 10.67 pg in diploids (2n = 14) and reached up to 29.85 pg in hexaploid species (2n = 42). The smallest genomes were found in taxa from the New World, which became secondarily annual, whereas the largest diploid genomes occur in Eurasian annuals. Genome sizes of polyploid taxa equaled mostly the added sizes of their proposed progenitors or were slightly (1% to 5%) smaller. The analysis of ancestral genome sizes on the base of the phylogeny of the genus revealed lineages with decreasing and with increasing genome sizes. Correlations of intraspecific genome size variation with the length of vegetation period were found in H. marinum populations from Western Europe but were not significant within two species from South America. On a higher taxonomical level (i.e., for species groups or the entire genus), environmental correlations were absent. This could mostly be attributed to the superimposition of life-form changes and phylogenetic constraints, which conceal ecogeographical correlations.
Nucleotide variability at the acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase gene and the signature of herbicide selection in the grass weed Alopecurus myosuroides (Huds.).	Acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase (ACCase) is the target of highly effective herbicides. We investigated the nucleotide variability of the ACCase gene in a sample of 18 black-grass (Alopecurus myosuroides [Huds.]) populations to search for the signature of herbicide selection. Sequencing 3,396 bp encompassing ACCase herbicide-binding domain in 86 individuals revealed 92 polymorphisms, which formed 72 haplotypes. The ratio of nonsynonymous versus synonymous substitutions was very low, in agreement with ACCase being a vital metabolic enzyme. Within black grass, most nonsynonymous substitutions were related to resistance to ACCase-inhibiting herbicides. Differentiation between populations was strong, in contrast to expectations for an allogamous, annual plant. Significant H tests revealed recent hitchhiking events within populations. These results were consistent with recent and local positive selection. We propose that, although they have only been used since at most 15 black-grass generations, ACCase-inhibiting herbicides have exerted a positive selection targeting resistant haplotypes that has been strong enough to have a marked effect upon ACCase nucleotide diversity. A minimum-spanning network of nonrecombinant haplotypes revealed multiple, independent apparitions of resistance-associated mutations. This study provides the first evidence for the signature of ongoing, recent, pesticide selection upon variation at the gene encoding the targeted enzyme in natural plant populations.
Relationship of 99mTc-HYNIC annexin V uptake to microvessel density, FasL and MMP-9 expression, and the number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes in head and neck carcinoma.	This study reports on the relationship between quantitative (99m)Tc-HYNIC radiolabelled annexin V tumour uptake measurements, Fas ligand (FasL) expression, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) expression, microvessel density (MVD) and the number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) patients. Twenty-eight patients (24 men and 4 women; mean age 59 years, range 43-83 years) suffering from a primary ( n, number of patients=22) or locally recurrent ( n=6) SCCHN were studied. All patients underwent a spiral CT scan, allowing estimation of lesion size in three dimensions, and (99m)Tc-HYNIC annexin V scintigraphy within 1 week of each other. Biopsies or resection of the suspected primary tumour or local recurrence for histopathological analysis were performed on all patients within a period of 10 days following (99m)Tc-HYNIC annexin V scintigraphy. The percentage uptake of the injected dose of (99m)Tc-HYNIC annexin V in visible tumour lesions on scintigrams divided by the tumour volume, derived from CT, was related to MVD and to histological score (HSCORE) values for MMP-9 and FasL expression as well as to the number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (CD45 staining). Median percentage absolute tumour uptake of the injected dose/cm(3) tumour volume derived from tomographic images was 0.0001% (SD 0.0001%) at 5-6 h p.i. (range: 0.000007-0.0003%). Mean HSCORE for MMP-9 tumour staining was 2.1 (SD 0.84). Mean HSCORE for FasL tumour staining was 2.49 (SD 0.92). At the sites of tumour containing the highest number of vessels, the mean MVD was 20 vessels/field at the hot spot (range 1-73). The median number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes was 500 (range 100-5,000). The percentage absolute tumour uptake of the injected dose/cm(3) tumour volume derived from tomographic images correlated linearly with FasL HSCORES( r=0.47, P=0.02). No correlation was found between the percentage absolute tumour uptake of the injected dose/cm(3) tumour volume derived from tomographic images and MMP-9 HSCORES, MVD or the number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes. MVD correlated significantly with MMP-9 HSCORES ( r=0.44, P=0.03).
Denaturation of dsDNA by p53: fluorescence correlation spectroscopy study.	p53 activates transcription through interaction with specific DNA sequences in gene promoters. It also regulates DNA replication, recombination, and repair apparently through interactions with DNA intermediates of these reactions. Biochemical activities relevant for these functions of p53 include binding to the ends and internal segments of single-stranded DNA molecules, catalysis of DNA renaturation, and strand exchange. We report a novel activity of p53, its ability to denature double-stranded DNA molecules aggregated by basic peptides. Stable complexes of coiled single-stranded DNA molecules with basic peptides are formed in this reaction. Thus, complementary to the ability to catalyze DNA renaturation, p53 denatures double-stranded DNA when the latter reaction is thermodynamically favorable. This p53 activity, along with its ability to interact physically with DNA helicases, may be relevant for resolving double-stranded DNA intermediates and inhibition of DNA recombination, which is critical for guarding of the genome.
Expression and methylation status of 14-3-3 sigma gene can characterize the different histological features of ovarian cancer.	We hypothesize that 14-3-3 sigma gene expression and its regulation by methylation can characterize histological types of primary human epithelial ovarian cancer. To test this hypothesis, ovarian cancer cell lines and 54 ovarian cancer tissue samples were analyzed for expression and methylation of 14-3-3 sigma gene using methylation specific PCR. The results of our experiments demonstrate that 14-3-3 sigma gene was methylated and inactivated in ES-2 ovarian cell line, which was derived from clear cell adenocarcinoma. Treatment of this cell line with demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine restored the expression of 14-3-3 sigma gene. In human ovarian cancer tissues, the expression of 14-3-3 sigma protein was inactivated in most of the ovarian clear cell carcinoma tissues. Interestingly, 14-3-3 sigma protein expression was positive in significantly higher percentages of serous (89.5%), endometrioid (90%), and mucinous (81.8%) ovarian adenocarcinoma tissues. The ovarian clear cell carcinoma samples with inactivated 14-3-3 sigma protein were highly methylated, suggesting that inactivation of 14-3-3 sigma gene is through DNA methylation. Using direct DNA sequencing, 14-3-3 sigma gene methylation on all the 17 CpG sites was significantly higher in ovarian clear cell carcinoma as compared to other histological types of ovarian cancer (serous, endometrioid, and mucinous). This is the first report suggesting that 14-3-3 sigma gene expression and methylation status can characterize histological features of different types of ovarian cancer.
Time to peak velocity measurements by pulsed wave Doppler tissue imaging to quantify ischemia-related regional myocardial asynchrony.	A total of 173 patients with chest pain but without visually discernible wall-motion abnormalities by 2-dimensional echocardiography underwent pulsed wave Doppler tissue imaging examination before angiography. Segmental longest time to peak contraction velocity (Tpv) was acquired through 3 apical views. The longest time period from electrocardiographic R wave to peak velocity on segmental velocity integrals of nonapical segments was measured. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed for correlation analysis between segmental Tpv and significant (>or=50% luminal diameter stenosis) coronary artery stenosis. Analysis of variance test was used to compare among different patient groups with 0, 1, 2, and 3 coronary artery stenoses. Delay in Tpv on any 1 or more of the 12 nonapical segments was noted in 72 of 116 patients with angiographically significant coronary stenosis. When the longest segmental Tpv of >or=340 milliseconds was selected as a cut-off value for identification of a significant left circumflex or multivessel coronary artery stenosis, the area under receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.69 and 0.72, respectively (P =.000 and.0013, respectively). In conclusion, pulsed wave Doppler tissue imaging technique provides objective quantitative information for identification of multivessel or left circumflex coronary artery stenosis in patients with chest pain but without apparent wall-motion abnormalities on echocardiography.
Myocardial acceleration during isovolumic contraction as a new index of right ventricular contractile function and its relation to pulmonary regurgitation in patients after repair of tetralogy of Fallot.	Myocardial acceleration during isovolumic contraction (IVA) by Doppler tissue imaging has been proposed to be a new index of right ventricular contractile function that is unaffected by ventricular shape or loading conditions.
Right ventricular strain rate and strain analysis in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot: possible interventricular septal compensation.	Indices such as strain rate (SR) and strain (epsilon) are free of geometric assumptions and, thus, may provide new insights into right ventricular (RV) function and compensatory mechanisms in repaired tetralogy of Fallot (TOF).
Index of myocardial performance after early phase of myocardial infarction in relation to its location.	To define the degree of heart derangement in recent myocardial infarction (MI) occurring in different wall locations of myocardium, we echocardiographically evaluated left ventricular volumes, ejection fraction, wall-motion score index, isovolumetric contraction and relaxation time, ejection time, and index of myocardial performance in 74 patients with MI. Participants were chosen among the patients with MI of comparable extent and interesting unlike zones of myocardial walls. Mean values of evaluated left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes and ejection fraction were nearly alike in all patients, whereas wall-motion score index and index of myocardial performance were cleary prolonged in those with anterior MI in comparison with the values recorded in patients with lateral or inferior MI. The mean values of isovolumetric contraction and relaxation time suggest that a prevalent systolic dysfunction is present in the early phase of MI. In addition, the different index of myocardial performance prolongation in MI otherwise located suggests evidence that MI located in the anterior wall has more serious effect than lateral or inferior MI.
Age dependency of the Tei index of myocardial performance.	Despite its clinical use as a sensitive measure of left ventricular performance, little is known about whether the Tei index is influenced by aging. We determined the Tei index in 141 subjects without cardiovascular disease (age 16-78 years). There were statistically significant variations in ejection time, isovolumic relaxation time, and the Tei index with aging. There was a moderate linear correlation between isovolumic relaxation time and age (r = 0.49, P <.001) and the Tei index and age (r = 0.33, P <.001). This investigation demonstrated that when assessing myocardial performance in patients using this index, age-normalized values should be used.
Peak atrial systolic mitral annular velocity by Doppler tissue reliably predicts left atrial systolic function.	Left atrial (LA) function assessment is important in clinical practice. We studied peak atrial tissue velocity (A') and quantitative echocardiographic methods of LA function in 120 patients (54 men; mean age 58 years) who were in sinus rhythm. Patients were divided into 2 groups: patients with increased left ventricular mass; and healthy subjects. There was no difference for peak late filling velocity (A) and A velocity time integral between groups. Patients with increased left ventricular mass had higher A', LA ejection fraction, LA ejection force, and LA kinetic energy. A' correlated well with LA ejection fraction (r = 0.8), LA ejection force (r = 0.87), and LA kinetic energy (r = 0.87). A' could also assess LA function for patients with depressed left ventricular function. Subsequently, we assessed A' in 16 patients with restrictive physiology and found that A' also correlated well with quantitative methods of LA function. A' correlates well with quantitative methods of LA function, and could be readily applied for quantifying LA contribution to diastolic performance in clinical practice.
Incidence and characteristics of left ventricular false tendons and trabeculations in the normal and pathologic heart by second harmonic echocardiography.	We sought to review echocardiographic incidence of anomalous images (AI) as false tendons and trabeculations of the left ventricle (LV) in light of recent advancements in echocardiographic evaluation of heart anatomy. In 1580 patients the presence of false tendons, trabeculations, or thrombi was evaluated with transthoracic echocardiography and correlated to clinical characteristics and echocardiographic parameters. Incidence of AI was 46.7% (75% false tendons, 23% trabeculations, 2% thrombi), slightly higher in pathologic (48.9%) than in normal hearts (40.8%). AI were more frequent in male patients (52%) than in female patients (39.7%) and associated with LV dilatation, hypertrophy, and systolic dysfunction. False tendons and trabeculations were not related to age. Male sex was the most significant independent predictor of AI. In 2 patients, isolated LV noncompaction of myocardium was diagnosed and confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging. This study shows a high prevalence of AI for patients with and without pathologic hearts suggesting the need of updating LV echocardiographic anatomy. It also emphasizes the necessity for an awareness of these anatomic variants when evaluating patients for mural thrombi and cardiomyopathies.
Biphasic left ventricular outflow and its mechanism in hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.	Biphasic systolic velocity in the left ventricular (LV) outflow tract (LVOT) occurs in hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM). The cause and importance of this observation remain poorly understood.
Recent trends of hyperuricemia and obesity in Japanese male adolescents, 1991 through 2002.	The aim of the present study was to determine the change of serum uric acid (UA) levels in male adolescents and to characterize the relationship between UA levels and obesity or its related factors. This study was conducted in 17,155 students at enrollment in Okayama University from 1991 through 2002, in which the mean serum UA level as a whole was 5.64 +/- 0.009 mg/dL (mean +/- SEM) and the incidence of hyperuricemia (>/=7.6 mg/dL) was 4.13%. Serum UA levels were correlated with obesity-related indicators, including body mass index (BMI; r = 0.282, P <.0001) and skin-fold thickness (r = 0.286, P <.0001). The incidence of hyperuricemia was increased in parallel with BMI. In the last 4 years (1999 through 2002) of the study period, serum UA levels (5.76 mg/dL) and the incidence of hyperuricemia (4.5%) were significantly increased compared with those in the earlier period (1991 through 1994: 5.50 mg/dL and 3.5%, respectively). However, BMI has been rather gradually decreased throughout 12-year observation in all the subjects. Hyperuricemia was related to the presence of other risk factors, including hypercholesterolemia, liver function abnormality, and hypertension. The frequencies of such abnormalities were higher than euuricemic subjects and this trend was notable in the most recent students enrolled from 1999 through 2002. Hyperuricemia was even found in the group of non-obese male adolescents. Taking into consideration that hyperuricemia is associated with a high prevalence of lifestyle-related diseases in adults, it is of great importance to prevent hyperuricemia at the early stage in Japanese adolescents.
Insulin secretion, sensitivity, and metabolic profile of young healthy offspring of hypertensive parents.	Hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance are commonly observed in essential hypertension, which is part of the metabolic syndrome. The aim of this study was to examine whether insulin secretion abnormalities or alterations in insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance are also present in healthy men, offspring of patients with essential hypertension. Twelve young (27 +/- 3.6 years), lean normotensive offspring were compared with 14 age-, sex-, and body mass index (BMI)-matched controls without a family history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and coronary heart disease. We studied glucose tolerance, insulin secretion, and sensitivity using 10-hour hyperglycemic and 10-hour hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps (HIC). Glucose tolerance was comparable in the offspring and controls. However, the offspring had higher insulin and C-peptide levels during the hyperglycemic clamp (HGC) compared with controls (P <.05). There was no difference in the early phase of insulin secretion between the groups. The insulin sensitivity index (glucose infusion rate/serum insulin) was significantly lower in the offspring during both clamps. Moreover, the offspring had higher systolic (P <.001) and diastolic (P <.001) blood pressure and had higher serum cholesterol (P <.01) and triglyceride (P <.05) levels. Apparently healthy, young, lean individuals with a genetic predisposition to essential hypertension and with normal glucose tolerance had higher insulin secretion and lower insulin sensitivity than controls. These abnormalities, together with higher blood pressure and altered lipid metabolism, may play a role in the development of hypertension and an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in these individuals.
Composition of joint fluid in patients undergoing total knee replacement and revision arthroplasty: correlation with flow properties.	The protein, phospholipid and hyaluronic acid (HA) contents of joint fluid samples were determined in specimens obtained from patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and revision TKA. It was hypothesized that these components would vary widely among patients undergoing TKA, and that the composition of joint fluid in patients undergoing revision would differ from that in patients undergoing revision. It was further hypothesized that HA concentration and molecular weight would principally determine the flow properties previously reported. Biochemical assays were used to assess protein and phospholipid content, and size exclusion chromatography was used to determine HA concentration and molecular weight. Sixty samples were included in the study. HA, protein, and phospholipid concentrations all varied widely in patients undergoing index TKA and revision TKA. HA concentration was lower in patients undergoing revision arthroplasty due to wear-related failure compared to patients undergoing the index procedure (0.9 +/- 0.4 mg/ml versus 1.3 +/- 0.5 mg/ml, mean +/- standard deviation, p = 0.04). Other components were not different between the groups. Flow properties at high shear rates were correlated with HA concentration and, to a lesser extent, HA molecular weight, but neither protein nor phospholipid concentration. The composition of joint fluid is highly variable in the context of arthroplasty. Much of the variation in flow properties, especially at high shear rate, is explained by large variation in HA concentration and small variation in HA molecular weight. The variation in composition and lower HA concentration in joints necessitating revision may relate to variation in arthroplasty lubrication leading to highly variable wear rates and clinical outcomes.
Effects of carvedilol on oxidative stress in polymorphonuclear and mononuclear cells in patients with essential hypertension.	To compare the effects of carvedilol and propranolol on oxidative stress in leukocytes and C-reactive protein levels in patients with hypertension.
Elevated blood urea nitrogen level as a predictor of mortality in patients admitted for decompensated heart failure.	Hospitalization for decompensated heart failure is associated with high mortality after discharge. In heart failure, renal function involves both cardiovascular and hemodynamic properties. We studied the relation between renal dysfunction and mortality in patients admitted for decompensated heart failure.
Trends of accuracy of clinical diagnoses of the basic cause of death in a university hospital.	To determine the agreement between clinical and necropsy diagnoses of the basic cause of death, and to compare the results with those obtained in a previous study carried out at the same university hospital.
Nonredundant mass spectrometry: a strategy to integrate mass spectrometry acquisition and analysis.	Protein identification using automated data-dependent tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) is now a standard procedure. However, in many cases data-dependent acquisition becomes redundant acquisition as many different peptides from the same protein are fragmented, whilst only a few are needed for unambiguous identification. To increase the quality of information but decrease the amount of information, a nonredundant MS (nrMS) strategy has been developed. With nrMS, data analysis is an integral part of the overall MS acquisition and analysis, and not an endpoint as typically performed. In this nrMS workflow a matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight-time of flight (MALDI-TOF/TOF) instrument is used. MS and restricted MS/MS data are searched and identified proteins are used to generate an "exclusion list", after in silico digestion. Peptide fragmentation is then restricted to only the most intense ions not present in the exclusion list. This process is repeated until all peaks are accounted for or the sample is consumed. Compared to nanoLC-MS/MS, nrMS yielded similar results for the analysis of six pooled two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) spots. In comparison to standard data-dependent MALDI-MS/MS for sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) gel band analysis, nrMS dramatically increased the number of identified proteins. It was also found that this new workflow significantly increased sequence coverage by identifying unexpected peptides, which can result from post-translational modifications.
The modal distribution of protein isoelectric points reflects amino acid properties rather than sequence evolution.	Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, a routine application in proteomics, separates proteins according to their molecular mass (M(r)) and isoelectric point (pI). As the genomic sequences for more and more organisms are determined, the M(r) and pI of all their proteins can be estimated computationally. The examination of several of these theoretical proteome plots has revealed a multimodal pI distribution, however, no conclusive explanation for this unusual distribution has so far been presented. We examined the pI distribution of 115 fully sequenced genomes and observed that the modal distribution does not reflect phylogeny or sequence evolution, but rather the chemical properties of amino acids. We provide a statistical explanation of why the observed distributions of pI values are multimodal.
A combination of proteomics, principal component analysis and transcriptomics is a powerful tool for the identification of biomarkers for macrophage maturation in the U937 cell line.	The monocyte-like human histiocytic lymphoma cell line U937 can be induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) to undergo differentiation into a macrophage-like phenotype. We have used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), oligonucleotide microarrays and principal component analysis (PCA) to characterize the U937 cell line as a model system for the differentiation of monocytes into macrophages. A total of 226 differentially expressed proteins were found, of which 41 were selected by PCA for identification using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Based on the PCA results, three marker proteins were selected for confirmation of differential expression using Western blot and quantitative real time-PCR. The selected marker proteins were: gamma interferon inducible lysosomal thiol reductase, cathepsin D and adipocyte-fatty acid binding protein. All three proved to be good differentiation markers for macrophage maturation of U937 cells as well as peripheral blood-derived macrophages. The transcriptomics data revealed a large number of additional putative differentiation markers in U937 macrophages, many of which are known to be expressed in peripheral blood-derived macrophages. These include osteospontin, matrix metalloproteinase 9, and HC-gp39. Our results show that the characteristics of U937 macrophages resemble those of inflammatory (exudate) macrophages, exemplified by the down-regulation of 5' nucleotidase and the up-regulation of leucine aminopeptidase mRNAs. In conclusion, using the powerful combination of transcriptomics, 2-DE and PCA, our results show that U937 cells differentiated by PMA treatment are an excellent model system for monocyte derived macrophage generation from blood.
Planning of clinical trials.	This article focuses on steps of planning clinical trials most relevant to the question the clinician asks and how this question is properly transformed in a design and a protocol. All steps are important for the data quality or the validity of the results. A clinical trial is an experiment aimed at testing an hypothesis regarding the efficacy of a given intervention on an event, symptom or impaired quality of life in patients with a defined condition and a particular profile. As such, it should meet the fundamentals of scientific discovery that guarantee causality between the observed difference and the intervention. All the planning components are thought according to these fundamentals.
Can concomitant-boost accelerated radiotherapy be adopted as routine treatment for head-and-neck cancers? A 10-year single-institution experience.	Accelerated schedules are effective in overcoming repopulation during radiotherapy (RT) for head-and-neck cancers, but their feasibility is compromised by increased toxicity. The therapeutic ratio may be particularly favorable for 5-week regimens. This study reports the 10-year experience of a single institution in the routine use of concomitant boost RT as standard radical treatment in all but the most favorable stage patients.
Interval between surgery and radiotherapy: effect on local control of soft tissue sarcoma.	To evaluate the clinical significance of the interval between surgery and postoperative radiotherapy (RT) for patients with soft tissue sarcoma.
Preliminary report of using FDG-PET to detect extrapelvic lesions in cervical cancer patients with enlarged pelvic lymph nodes on MRI/CT.	To evaluate, in a prospective study, the effects of (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) on the detection of extrapelvic lesions, the design of whole pelvis or extended field radiotherapy, and subsequent failure patterns for patients with cervical cancer and enlarged pelvic lymph nodes (LNs) shown on MRI or CT.
Correlation of TIMI risk score with angiographic severity and extent of coronary artery disease in patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes.	The Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) risk score predicts adverse clinical outcomes in patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTEACS). Whether this score correlates with the coronary anatomy is unknown. We sought to determine whether the TIMI risk score correlates with the angiographic extent and severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with NSTEACS undergoing cardiac catheterization. We conducted a retrospective review of 688 consecutive medical records of patients who underwent coronary angiography secondary to NSTEACS. Patients were classified into 3 categories according to TIMI risk score: TIMI scores 0 to 2 (n = 284), 3 to 4 (n = 301), and 5 to 7 (n = 103). One-vessel disease was found in patients with TIMI score 3 to 4 as often as in patients with TIMI score 0 to 2 (odds ratio [OR] 1.08, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.74 to 1.56; p = 0.66). However, 1-vessel disease was found more often in patients with TIMI score 3 to 4 than in patients with TIMI score 5 to 7 (OR 2.16, 95% CI 1.18 to 3.95; p = 0.01), and in patients with TIMI score 0 to 2 than in those with TIMI score 5 to 7 (OR 1.99, 95% CI 1.08 to 3.66; p = 0.02). Two-vessel disease was more likely found in patients with TIMI score 3 to 4 than in those with TIMI scores 0 to 2 (OR 3.96, 95% CI 2.41 to 6.53; p <0.001) and 5 to 7 (OR 2.05, 95% CI 1.12 to 3.75; p = 0.004). Three-vessel or left main disease was more likely found in patients with TIMI score 3 to 4 than in patients with TIMI score 0 to 2 (OR 3.19, 95% CI 2.00 to 5.10; p <0.001), and in patients with TIMI score 5 to 7 than in patients with TIMI score 3 to 4 (OR 6.34, 95% CI 3.88 to 10.36; p <0.001). In patients with NSTEACS undergoing cardiac catheterization, the TIMI risk score correlated with the extent and severity of CAD.
Penumbral topography in human stroke: methodology and validation of the 'Penumbragram'.	The location as well as the volume of the ischemic penumbra in human stroke is likely to influence the outcome of therapeutic intervention but its spatial extent is poorly characterized. Based on the observation that infarct expansion progresses from the center to the periphery of the penumbra in animal stroke models, we describe a method of mapping the three-dimensional spatial extent of the penumbra relative to the infarct in a 'Penumbragram'. Central, peripheral and external zones of the final infarct were defined according to median voxel distance from the infarct center (IC) and were further subdivided by coronal, sagittal and axial planes through the IC. In 10 patients with hypoxic, viable (penumbral) tissue identified by (18)F-Fluoromisonidazole positron emission tomography within 48 h of stroke onset, 'Penumbragrams' displaying the percentage of penumbra in each region were generated using anatomically co-registered data sets. The correlation between penumbral percentage and time from stroke onset was negative in the central (P < 0.05) and peripheral (P > 0.05) zones of the infarct and positive in external zones (P < 0.05). The validity of infarct segmentation was assessed by factor analysis with no a priori grouping of regions. Negative and positive correlations of penumbra volume and time from stroke onset were observed in seven (five corresponding to central zone of the infarct) and four (all in external zone) infarct regions and were measured reliably (Cronbach's alpha 0.84 and 0.9, respectively). The 'Penumbragram' is a valid method for objectively mapping the spatial extent of the penumbra, which is applicable to other imaging modalities.
The human parietal cortex is involved in spatial processing of tongue movement-an fMRI study.	The human tongue is so sensitive and dexterous that spatial representations of the inside of the oral cavity for the tongue movement are naturally expected to exist. In the present study, we examined the brain activity associated with spatial processing during tongue movements using a functional magnetic resonance imaging technique. Twenty-four normal subjects participated in the study, which consisted of a periodic series of three blocks; resting of the tongue, tongue movement (pressing the inside of a tooth with the tip of the tongue), and tongue retraction. The cerebral fields of activation during the tongue movement to the left and right side relative to those during rest were found in the primary sensorimotor area and supplementary motor area bilaterally, and in the left inferior parietal lobule (IPL). The activation areas during the tongue retraction relative to those during rest were almost the same, except that activation in the left IPL was not observed. The fields of activation during tongue movement to the left and right side relative to those during tongue retraction were found bilaterally in the dorsal premotor area, superior parietal lobule (SPL), and the IPL. The results indicate that the bilateral SPL and IPL were specifically involved in the processing for human tongue movement. Although no significant laterality was observed, the left parietal area tended to show greater activation in statistical values and area than the right parietal area, thus indicating the possibility that this processing for human tongue movement is related to that for language.
Regional specificity of hippocampal volume reductions in first-episode schizophrenia.	Hippocampal volume reductions are widely observed in schizophrenia. Some studies suggest anterior hippocampal regions are more susceptible and associated with frontal lobe dysfunctions, while others implicate posterior regions. Using high-resolution MR images and novel computational image analysis methods, we identified the hippocampal subregions most vulnerable to disease processes in 62 (45 m/17 f) first-episode schizophrenia patients compared to 60 (30 m/30 f) healthy controls, similar in age. The hippocampi were traced on coronal brain slices and hemispheric volumes were compared between diagnostic groups. Regional structural abnormalities were identified by comparing distances, measured from homologous hippocampal surface points to the central core of each individual's hippocampal surface model, between groups in 3D. CSF concentrations were also compared statistically at homologous hippocampal surface points to localize corresponding gray matter reductions. Significant bilateral hippocampal volume reductions were observed in schizophrenia irrespective of brain size corrections. Statistical mapping results, confirmed by permutation testing, showed pronounced left hemisphere shape differences in anterior and midbody CA1 and CA2 regions in patients. Significant CSF increases surrounding the hippocampus were observed in a similar spatial pattern in schizophrenia. Results confirm that hippocampal volume reductions are a robust neuroanatomical correlate of schizophrenia and are present by first episode. Mid- to antero-lateral hippocampal regions show pronounced volume changes and complementary increases in peri-hippocampal CSF, suggesting that these hippocampal regions are more susceptible to disease processes in schizophrenia. Targeting regional hippocampal abnormalities may help dissociate schizophrenia patients from other groups exhibiting global hippocampal volume changes, and better focus systems-level pathophysiological hypotheses.
Dynamics of brain activity in motor and frontal cortical areas during music listening: a magnetoencephalographic study.	There are formidable problems in studying how 'real' music engages the brain over wide ranges of temporal scales extending from milliseconds to a lifetime. In this work, we recorded the magnetoencephalographic signal while subjects listened to music as it unfolded over long periods of time (seconds), and we developed and applied methods to correlate the time course of the regional brain activations with the dynamic aspects of the musical sound. We showed that frontal areas generally respond with slow time constants to the music, reflecting their more integrative mode; motor-related areas showed transient-mode responses to fine temporal scale structures of the sound. The study combined novel analysis techniques designed to capture and quantify fine temporal sequencing from the authentic musical piece (characterized by a clearly defined rhythm and melodic structure) with the extraction of relevant features from the dynamics of the regional brain activations. The results demonstrated that activity in motor-related structures, specifically in lateral premotor areas, supplementary motor areas, and somatomotor areas, correlated with measures of rhythmicity derived from the music. These correlations showed distinct laterality depending on how the musical performance deviated from the strict tempo of the music score, that is, depending on the musical expression.
Variation of BOLD hemodynamic responses across subjects and brain regions and their effects on statistical analyses.	Estimates of hemodynamic response functions (HRF) are often integral parts of event-related fMRI analyses. Although HRFs vary across individuals and brain regions, few studies have investigated how variations affect the results of statistical analyses using the general linear model (GLM). In this study, we empirically estimated HRFs from primary motor and visual cortices and frontal and supplementary eye fields (SEF) in 20 subjects. We observed more variability across subjects than regions and correlated variation of time-to-peak values across several pairs of regions. Simulations examined the effects of observed variability on statistical results and ways different experimental designs and statistical models can limit these effects. Widely spaced and rapid event-related experimental designs with two sampling rates were tested. Statistical models compared an empirically derived HRF to a canonical HRF and included the first derivative of the HRF in the GLM. Small differences between the estimated and true HRFs did not cause false negatives, but larger differences within an observed range of variation, such as a 2.5-s time-to-onset misestimate, led to false negatives. Although small errors minimally affected detection of activity, time-to-onset misestimates as small as 1 s influenced model parameter estimation and therefore random effects analyses across subjects. Experiment and analysis design methods such as decreasing the sampling rate or including the HRF's temporal derivative in the GLM improved results, but did not eliminate errors caused by HRF misestimates. These results highlight the benefits of determining the best possible HRF estimate and potential negative consequences of assuming HRF consistency across subjects or brain regions.
Glutamate concentrations in human brain using single voxel proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3 Tesla.	A method for quantitative determination of the glutamate (Glu) concentration in human brain using PRESS-based single voxel MR spectroscopy (MRS) at 3 T has been developed and validated by repeatedly analyzing voxels comprising the anterior cingulate cortex (acc) and the left hippocampus (hc) in 40 healthy volunteer brains. At an optimum echo time of 80 ms, the C4 resonance of Glu appears well resolved and separated from major interferents, that is, glutamine and N-acetylaspartate. As a complementary method, a multiple quantum coherence filter sequence for Glu was employed. For quantification of Glu and the principal MRS-visible metabolites as well as for an estimate of the glutamine level, analysis of both types of in vivo spectra was carried out by a time domain-frequency domain method involving prior knowledge obtained from phantom spectra. Using PRESS, coefficients of variation (CV) for Glu concentration were of the order of 10%. When the concentrations were corrected by individual cerebrospinal fluid fractions obtained by segmentation using spm, CVs tended to increase and the correlation coefficients for the two MRS sessions tended to decrease, indicating that this type of correction adds uncertainty to the data. The concentrations of Glu in the two voxels studied were found to be significantly different (11.6 mmol/l in acc, 10.9 mmol/l in hc, P = 0.023) and decrease with age (P < 0.04). These concentrations agreed well with those determined using the quantum coherence filter method although the uncertainty of the latter limits reliable analysis.
Exposure to appetitive food stimuli markedly activates the human brain.	The increased incidence of obesity most likely reflects changes in the environment that had made food more available and palatable. Here we assess the response of the human brain to the presentation of appetitive food stimuli during food presentation using PET and FDG.
Optical recording of oscillatory neural activities in the molluscan brain.	The procerebrum (PC) of the terrestrial slug shows a coherent oscillatory activity. Information is encoded in the PC by neurons with synchronized oscillatory activity, and the oscillatory activity will propagate to other brain regions as the PC transmits information. Using the optical recording of membrane potentials and the correlation analysis, we showed that the metacerebrum/mesocerebrum (MC) region also shows an oscillatory activity coherent with that of the PC. The MC oscillation was either inphase or antiphase with the PC oscillation, and its amplitude was larger when it was antiphase than it was inphase. These results indicate that the MC is capable of producing an oscillatory activity, possibly driven by synaptic input from the PC.
Alterations in human tau transcripts correlate with those of neurofilament in sporadic tauopathies.	Abnormalities in tau mRNA splicing cause frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17, and similar alterations are suggested in sporadic tauopathies such as progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) or corticobasal degeneration (CBD). We have analyzed the expression of three-repeat (3R) and four-repeat (4R) tau isoforms in brains with familial and sporadic tauopathies. By RT-PCR analysis, decreased levels of 3R tau mRNA were detected not only in severely affected cases with progressive supranuclear palsy or corticobasal degeneration but also in cases with Alzheimer's disease or Pick's disease. Levels of 3R tau transcripts were closely correlated with levels of neurofilament transcripts. By contrast, expressions of glial fibrillary acidic protein and myelin basic protein were similar in all brains. These results suggest that decrease of 3R tau mRNA associated with loss of neuronal element may largely contribute to the increased ratio of 4R/3R tau mRNA in sporadic tauopathies.
Lack of association between the interleukin-1 alpha (-889) polymorphism and early-onset Parkinson's disease.	An increasing number of studies have shown that an inflammatory process is part of Parkinson's disease (PD) brain pathology. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a multifunctional cytokine and is considered to contribute to several inflammatory diseases. Recently, we detected an associated risk in a subgroup of PD patients with a disease onset < 50 years and a C to T transition in the IL-1alpha promoter (-889). One-hundred-seventy-six German PD patients (42.1 +/- 6.4 years; 42.4% male) and 170 unrelated age-matched control individuals (40.4 +/- 8.7 years; 57.6% male) were investigated for the presence of the IL-1alpha (-889C/T) polymorphism. No significant difference in the allelic distribution of the analyzed IL-1alpha polymorphism has been found between PD and controls. We conclude that the C/T polymorphism in the IL-1alpha promoter region at -889 does not increase the risk to develop PD.
Compromised late-stage motion processing in schizophrenia.	Visual motion processing is compromised in schizophrenia, as shown in deficient velocity discrimination. Processing of motion signals comprises progressive stages along the geniculate-striate-extrastriate-cortex pathway. Based on neurophysiologic and brain lesion studies, a velocity discrimination deficit can implicate early-stage motion processing if it is contrast-dependent or late-stage motion processing if it is contrast-independent.
The metabolic effects of fresh versus old stored blood in the priming of cardiopulmonary bypass solution for pediatric patients.	Pediatric cardiopulmonary bypass involves the creation of a large obligatory priming reservoir. Packed red blood cells are an essential part of the cardiopulmonary bypass priming solution in children. The storage media in packed red blood cells might cause significant acid-base, glucose, and electrolyte imbalances, which have been associated with severe complications. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the metabolic effects of fresh (< or =5 days) versus old (>5 days) stored packed red blood cells added to the priming solutions of pediatric patients undergoing cardiac surgery.
Efficacy of a criterion-driven transfusion protocol in patients having pediatric cardiac surgery.	Low-hematocrit bypass is one technique used to prevent allogeneic transfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass. The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of a criterion-driven transfusion protocol and the effect of low-hematocrit bypass with moderate hypothermia in pediatric cardiac surgery.
Left ventricular inflow obstruction associated with persistent left superior vena cava and dilated coronary sinus.	It has previously been suggested that significant dilatation of the coronary sinus can contribute to left ventricular inflow obstruction and is amenable to surgical correction. The purpose of this study was to review our experience with this rare condition.
Increased airway mucins after cardiopulmonary bypass associated with postoperative respiratory complications in children.	Airway mucins may play an important role in the mechanism of respiratory complications after cardiopulmonary bypass in infants and children. Our aim was to measure airway mucin levels before and after cardiopulmonary bypass and to determine whether changes in mucin levels were associated with the development of respiratory complications.
Early cavopulmonary anastomosis in very young infants after the Norwood procedure: impact on oxygenation, resource utilization, and mortality.	The optimal timing of second-stage palliation after Norwood operations remains undefined. Advantages of early cavopulmonary anastomosis are early elimination of volume load and shortening the high-risk interstage period. Potential disadvantages include severe cyanosis, prolonged pleural drainage and hospitalization, and excess mortality. We reviewed our recent experience to evaluate the safety of early cavopulmonary anastomosis.
Q-wave regression after acute myocardial infarction assessed by Tl-201 myocardial perfusion SPECT.	The actual relationship between the interval change of myocardial thallium 201 (Tl-201) radioactivity in the infarct area and the pattern of Q-wave regression is still unknown. This study was conducted to evaluate their relationship after acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Growth behavior of microorganisms using UV-Vis spectroscopy: Escherichia coli.	Multiwavelength transmission spectra of microorganisms and cell suspensions consist of combined absorption and scattering phenomena resulting from the interaction of light with microorganisms or cells typically suspended in a nonabsorbing media. The distribution of intensities as a function of wavelength depends on the size, shape, and optical properties of the sample. The optical properties are functions of the chemical composition and the state of aggregation, or association, of the chromophoric groups contained in the microorganisms. This article explores the growth behavior of Escherichia coli from the perspective of multiwavelength UV-Vis spectroscopy. Experimentally, it is demonstrated that the spectral signatures of the microorganism evolve as a function of time. It is also demonstrated that the spectral changes observed during growth are consistent with data reported elsewhere. From the theoretical point of view, it is demonstrated that the spectral signatures can be adequately represented with an interpretation model based on light-scattering theory. The parameters from the interpretation model reflect changes in size and chemical composition known to take place in the microorganisms during growth.
Neural correlates of change detection and change blindness in a working memory task.	Detecting changes in an ever-changing environment is highly advantageous, and this ability may be critical for survival. In the present study, we investigated the neural substrates of change detection in the context of a visual working memory task. Subjects maintained a sample visual stimulus in short-term memory for 6 s, and were asked to indicate whether a subsequent, test stimulus matched or did not match the original sample. To study change detection largely uncontaminated by attentional state, we compared correct change and correct no-change trials at test. Our results revealed that correctly detecting a change was associated with activation of a network comprising parietal and frontal brain regions, as well as activation of the pulvinar, cerebellum, and inferior temporal gyrus. Moreover, incorrectly reporting a change when none occurred led to a very similar pattern of activations. Finally, few regions were differentially activated by trials in which a change occurred but subjects failed to detect it (change blindness). Thus, brain activation was correlated with a subject's report of a change, instead of correlated with the physical change per se. We propose that frontal and parietal regions, possibly assisted by the cerebellum and the pulvinar, might be involved in controlling the deployment of attention to the location of a change, thereby allowing further processing of the visual stimulus. Visual processing areas, such as the inferior temporal gyrus, may be the recipients of top-down feedback from fronto-parietal regions that control the reactive deployment of attention, and thus exhibit increased activation when a change is reported (irrespective of whether it occurred or not). Whereas reporting that a change occurred, be it correctly or incorrectly, was associated with strong activation in fronto-parietal sites, change blindness appears to involve very limited territories.
Effect of process parameters on production of a biopolymer by Rhizobium sp.	The production of biopolymers by a Rhizobium strain was studied under batch and bioreactor conditions. The best viscosity levels were obtained under low mannitol concentrations as well as low agitation and aeration conditions. Infrared spectra indicated the presence of chemical groups characteristic of microbially produced biopolymers, including C = O and O-acetyl groups. Thermogravimetric analysis showed the characteristic degradation profiles of the exopolysaccharide produced (T(onset) = 290degreesC). The experimental design showed that a low substrate concentration (10.0 g/L), and low aeration (0.2 vvm) and agitation (200 rpm) levels should be used. The maximum yield of the process was a Yp/s (g/g) of 0.19 +/- 0.1, obtained under optimized conditions.
Prognosis of cognition in congenital hypothyroidism following early treatment. Double effect hypothesis]	The prevention of mental retardation due to congenital hypothyroidism by treating it at an early stage is one of the great achievements of contemporary preventive medicine. Nevertheless, the children suffering from this disease are affected by selective cognitive deficits whose origin remains a controversial issue.
Free immunoglobulin light-chain serum levels in the follow-up of patients with monoclonal gammopathies: correlation with 24-hr urinary light-chain excretion.	In patients with light-chain myeloma or primary AL-amyloidosis, 24-hr light-chain excretion in the urine is considered an essential marker of the tumor mass. However, 24-hr urine collection and analysis may be cumbersome and prone to inaccuracy. Recently, a sensitive immunonephelometric assay for immunoglobulin free light chains (FLC) in the serum was developed. We sought to determine whether the serum level of monoclonal FLC could be used as an indicator of urinary excretion and disease evolution. Seven patients with light-chain myeloma and AL-amyloidosis were studied, all of which had a monoclonal FLC that could be detected in the urine using standard methods. In four of these patients, follow-up revealed a remarkable correlation between FLC serum levels and daily urinary excretions. The ratio of serum level to urinary light-chain excretion, although stable in a given patient, was extremely variable between patients. In the three remaining cases featuring hardly measurable amounts of light chain in the urine, the serum FLC assay proved sensitive enough for correlation with clinical events. Thus, immunonephelometric measurement of serum FLCs is a reliable method for the follow-up of patients with light-chain secreting monoclonal gammopathies.
Correlation between magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) in ectatic coronary vessels.	Coronary artery ectasia (CAE) is defined as a dilatation of an arterial segment to a diameter at least 1.5 times that of the adjacent normal artery. The correct follow-up of ectatic vessels is hampered by the need for repeat angiograms. In this work we compared quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) measurements of the diameter of the proximal most ectatic part of coronary vessels, with corresponding measurements obtained by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) using both gradient echo and turbo spin echo imaging sequences. Fifteen patients (14 male), aged 45-65 years, with known CAE were prospectively studied. Two electrocardiogram (ECG)-triggered pulse sequences were implemented for coronary magnetic resonance angiography. The first was a three-dimensional (3D), segmented, k-space gradient-echo sequence, employing a T2-weighted preparation prepulse and a frequency-selective, fat-saturation prepulse to enhance "white blood" (WB) contrast of the coronary arteries. The second sequence was an M2D dual Inversion Recovery (IR) Turbo Spin-Echo with a linear k-space acquisition scheme, providing "black-blood" (BB) contrast of the coronaries. All scans were carried out with the patient free breathing using a 2D, real-time Navigator beam, for respiratory motion tracking and gating. All patients underwent QCA, and the diameter of the proximal most ectatic part of each vessel was measured and compared with "white-blood" and "black-blood" MRA measurements. The average length of continuously visualized LM, LAD, LCx, and RCA by MRA was 2.5 +/- 0.3, 5.8 +/- 0.8, 3.9 +/- 1.0, and 7.2 +/- 1.2 cm, respectively. There were no statistically significant differences between diameter measurements of the proximal most ectatic part of each vessel, obtained with WB and BB sequences. There was a close correlation between MRA and QCA measurements (r = 0.87, p < 0.001). Bland-Altman analysis showed no systematic differences between the examined methods, over the whole range of vessel diameters measured. Coronary MRA is in close correlation with QCA for CAE detection. Magnetic resonance angiography, being noninvasive, may prove of significant value for the efficient follow-up of these patients.
An integrative and interactive framework for improving biomedical pattern discovery and visualization.	Recent progress in medical sciences has led to an explosive growth of data. Due to its inherent complexity and diversity, mining such volumes of data to extract relevant knowledge represents an enormous challenge and opportunity. Interactive pattern discovery and visualization systems for biomedical data mining have received relatively little attention. Emphasis has been traditionally placed on automation and supervised classification problems. Based on self-adaptive neural networks and pattern-validation statistical tools, this paper presents a user-friendly platform to support biomedical pattern discovery and visualization. It has been tested on several types of biomedical data, such as dermatology and cardiology data sets. The results indicate that in comparison to traditional techniques, such as Kohonen Maps, this platform may significantly improve the effectiveness and efficiency of pattern discovery and classification tasks, including problems described by several classes. Furthermore, this study shows how the combination of graphical and statistical tools may make these patterns more meaningful.
Vasectomy by ligation and excision, with or without fascial interposition: a randomized controlled trial [ISRCTN77781689].	Randomized controlled trials comparing different vasectomy occlusion techniques are lacking. Thus, this multicenter randomized trial was conducted to compare the probability of the success of ligation and excision vasectomy with, versus without, fascial interposition (i.e. placing a layer of the vas sheath between two cut ends of the vas).
Patient size and x-ray transmission in body CT.	Physical characteristics were obtained for 196 patients undergoing chest and abdomen computed tomography (CT) examinations. Computed tomography sections for these patients having no evident pathology were analyzed to determine patient dimensions (AP and lateral), together with the average attenuation coefficient. Patient weights ranged from approximately 3 kg to about 120 kg. For chest CT, the mean Hounsfield unit (HU) fell from about -120 HU for newborns to about -300 HU for adults. For abdominal CT, the mean HU for children and normal-sized adults was about 20 HU, but decreased to below -50 HU for adults weighing more than 100 kg. The effective photon energy and percent energy fluence transmitted through a given patient size and composition was calculated for representative x-ray spectra at 80, 100, 120, and 140 kV tube potentials. A 70-kg adult scanned at 120 kVp transmits 2.6% of the energy fluence for chest and 0.7% for abdomen CT examinations. Reducing the patient size to 10 kg increases transmission by an order of magnitude. For 70 kg patients, effective energies in body CT range from approximately 50 keV at 80 kVp to approximately 67 keV at 140 kVp; increasing patient size from 10 to 120 kg resulted in an increase in effective photon energy of approximately 4 keV. The x-ray transmission data and effective photon energy data can be used to determine CT image noise and image contrast, respectively, and information on patient size and composition can be used to determine patient doses.
Interinstitutional variation in the use of abciximab for percutaneous coronary intervention.	Several clinical trials have established abciximab as an efficacious agent for use in conjunction with percutaneous coronary intervention; however, there is little documented about its use in routine clinical practice in Canada.
Precision and accuracy of the bedside examination in detecting an ejection fraction of less than 40% following acute myocardial infarction.	Left ventricular function is the most important determinant of prognosis following myocardial infarction.
Loss of function associated with novel mutations of the SCN5A gene in patients with Brugada syndrome.	Ventricular fibrillation is one of the leading causes of death in North America. Brugada syndrome is characterized by ST segment elevation on the right precordial leads V1 through V3 and right bundle branch block, and may cause sudden death. Mutations in the SCN5A gene encoding the cardiac voltage-gated Na+ channel (hNav1.5) are associated with Brugada syndrome.
Comparison of [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake with glucose transporter-1 expression and proliferation rate in human glioma and non-small-cell lung cancer.	To clarify the biological significance of [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) accumulation in patients with cancer, we assessed the relationships between 18F-FDG uptake and glucose transporter-1 (GLUT-1) expression and proliferation rate in human glioma and lung cancer. We obtained FDG PET images and measured standardized uptake values (SUVs) of primary tumours in 13 patients with brain glioma and 25 patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. After surgery, portions of respected tumours were obtained, and the proliferation rate was measured as proliferation index (per cent of (S+G2+M)/(G0+G1+S+G2+M)) using DNA flow cytometry. The expression of GLUT-1 in a tumour was evaluated by using immunostaining. We classified GLUT-1 expression as grade 0 (no positive cell), grade 1 (< 10% cells positive), grade 2 (11-50% cells positive) and grade 3 (51-100% cells positive). Based on the expression of GLUT-1, cases with grades 0, 1, 2 and 3 showed SUVs of 6.1 +/- 2.8, 5.0 +/- 3.2, 8.3 +/- 3.3 and 10.4 +/- 6.6, respectively (P < 0.05). Non-small-cell lung cancer showed higher FDG uptake (SUV, 8.5 +/- 5.1) and higher GLUT-1 expression (grade, 2.0 +/- 1.0) than did brain glioma (SUV, 4.7 +/- 2.5; grade, 0.8 +/- 0.8). Based on the total number of cases, SUVs did not relate to proliferation index (r = 0.19). In non-small-cell lung cancer, SUVs did not correlate with proliferation index, whereas in glioma, SUVs were strongly related to proliferation index (r = 0.79, P < 0.01). In conclusion, FDG uptake generally correlated with GLUT-1 expression in non-small-cell lung cancer and glioma. In the case of glioma, FDG uptake also indicated increased cellular proliferation, which was not demonstrated in non-small-cell lung cancer.
P-glycoprotein expression is associated with FDG uptake and cell differentiation in patients with untreated lung cancer.	In vitro studies demonstrated that the accumulation of 2-deoxy-D-glucose was reduced in multidrug resistant cell lines. In animal study, it has been suggested that 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) may be a marker for multidrug resistance (MDR). The aim of this clinical study was to compare MDR characteristics by immunohistochemical assay with FDG uptake and investigate whether FDG is a marker for MDR in patients with untreated lung cancer. Forty-seven patients with 49 untreated lung cancers, who had undergone both preoperative FDG PET imaging and thoracotomy, were enrolled in this study. Before surgery, FDG PET was performed 40 min after injection, and standardized uptake values (SUVs) were obtained. Patients were classified into low-SUV (< or = 5) and high-SUV (> 5) groups. After surgery, the expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) was investigated by immunohistochemistry, and the lung cancer FDG uptake was analysed for possible association with Pgp expression. The strong intensity of Pgp immunoreactivity was seen only in the low-SUV group. The percentage of the Pgp positive area was significantly lower in the high-SUV group (21.7 +/- 13.4%) than in the low-SUV group (44.1 +/- 29.7%) (P = 0.015). In the high-SUV group, the percentage of Pgp positive area did not exceed 50%. In lung adenocarcinoma, the intensity of Pgp immunoreactivity and the percentage of Pgp positive area increased with degree of cell differentiation, while FDG uptake decreased with degree of cell differentiation. Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, in particular, showed overexpression of Pgp and modest uptake of FDG. In conclusion, Pgp expression was found to be inversely related to FDG uptake in untreated lung cancer. Pgp expression correlated with the degree of cell differentiation in adenocarcinomas, whilst FDG uptake was inversely related to cell differentiation. FDG may be an in vivo marker for MDR in patients with untreated lung cancer.
Gated blood-pool SPECT automated versus manual left ventricular function calculations.	Planar gated blood-pool imaging (GBPI) is a standard method for non-invasive assessment of left ventricular (LV) function. Gated blood-pool single photon emission computed tomographic (GBPS) data acquisition can be accomplished in the same time as GBPI, with the benefit of enabling visualization of all cardiac chambers simultaneously. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the degree to which automated and manual LVEF calculations agree with one another and with conventional GBPI LVEF measurements. GBPI studies were performed in 22 consecutive, unselected patients, followed by GBPS data acquisition. GBPS left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) calculations were performed by available software (NuSMUGA, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL) automatically and manually, using all LV gated short axis slices. Automatic LVEF assessed by GBPS correlated well with conventional planar GBPI (r = 0.88, P < 0.001). Mean planar GBPI LVEF was 50% +/- 12%, and mean GBPS automatic LVEF was significantly lower at 45% + 14% (P = 0.001), with a mean difference of 6% +/- 5%. Manual GBPS LVEF also correlated well with conventional planar GBPI (r = 0.90, P < 0.0001). Mean LVEF measurement by manual GBPS versus GBPI was significantly higher at 59% +/- 13%, with a mean difference of 10% +/- 6% (P < 0.001). Manual GBPS LVEF values were also significantly higher than automatically determined GBPS LVEF values (P < 0.001). It is concluded that LVEF values assessed by NuSMUGA GBPS software were reproducible, and automatic and manual values correlated well with conventional GBPI values. However, both automatic and manual GBPS calculations were significantly different from one another and from GBPI values, so that GBPI and NuSMUGA calculations cannot be considered to be equivalent.
Preserved cognitive function after 12 months of treatment with rivastigmine in mild Alzheimer's disease in comparison with untreated AD and MCI patients.	Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) have shown positive symptomatic effects on cognition, activities of daily living, and behavior in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Rivastigmine is a slowly reversible ChEI that inhibits acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase. We evaluated the effects of long-term rivastigmine treatment on cognitive function and plasma levels of ChE activity, and the relationship between ChE activity and cognition. Patients with mild AD (n = 11) treated with rivastigmine for 12 months were compared with matched groups of untreated patients with AD (n = 21) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 22) representing the natural course of the pre-clinical and very early stage of disease. For untreated AD patients, neuropsychological assessment was made at baseline and 12 months. Determination of ChE activity in plasma and assessment of global cognition, episodic memory, visuospatial ability, and attention were performed at 0 (baseline), 3, 6, and 12 months for treated AD patients and untreated MCI patients. At 12 months, cognitive function was slightly improved or maintained in mild AD patients treated with rivastigmine. In contrast, cognition was markedly worsened in untreated AD patients and unchanged or slightly worsened in untreated MCI patients. In the group of treated AD patients, there was a significant correlation between plasma ChE inhibition and cognition, particularly in relation to attention. This effect was most apparent at 3 months of treatment. In conclusion, a clear beneficial effect of rivastigmine was shown on cognitive function for patients with mild AD and plasma values of ChE inhibition were associated with attention.
Comparison of arterial assessments in low and high vascular disease risk groups.	An increasing number of arterial function assessments are available, including small and large arterial elasticity (SAE/C2, LAE/C1), endothelial function as measured by flow mediated dilation (FMD), carotid intima-medial thickness (IMT), ankle brachial index (ABI), pulse pressure (PP), and pulse wave velocity (PWV). We have consecutively performed these measures in subjects with low and high vascular disease risks to assess the interrelationships.
Determinants of arterial stiffness in offspring of families with essential hypertension.	Arterial stiffness may be an early marker for vascular changes associated with hypertension in young adults. We investigated whether arterial stiffness measured as augmentation index and pulse wave velocity is increased in offspring of families with essential hypertension, and whether stiffness is related to various biochemical markers.
Arterial stiffness is greater in African Americans than in whites: evidence from the Forsyth County, North Carolina, ARIC cohort.	Impairment of arterial dilation is thought to occur earlier than arterial wall thickening in the atherosclerotic process. In comparison with whites, African Americans reportedly have a generalized attenuation of their vasodilation mechanisms. We set out to evaluate arterial stiffness and its correlates by ethnicity, hypothesizing that African Americans would have stiffer common carotid arteries (ie, lower arterial distension for a given systolic pressure) than their white counterparts.
Exaggerated exercise blood pressure is related to impaired endothelial vasodilator function.	Persons with high normal blood pressure (BP) or mild hypertension who also have an exaggerated BP response to exercise are at risk for worsening hypertension. The mechanisms that explain this relationship are unknown. We examined the relationships of endothelial vasodilator function and of aortic stiffness with exercise BP.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) in plasma is associated with preeclampsia risk in Peruvian women with systemic inflammation.	In a case-control study of 100 preeclamptics and 100 controls, we assessed plasma transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) concentrations in relation to preeclampsia risk among Peruvian women with and without systemic inflammation.
Leptin and membrane fluidity of erythrocytes in essential hypertension. An electron paramagnetic resonance investigation.	There has been an indication that leptin, the product of the human obesity gene, actively participates not only in metabolic regulation but also in the control of blood pressure. Recently, it has been proposed that abnormalities in the physical property of cell membranes may underlie the defects that are strongly linked to hypertension, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases. We have shown previously that leptin significantly increased the membrane fluidity and improved the microviscosity of erythrocytes in humans through the nitric oxide-dependent mechanism. In the present study, we examined the effects of leptin on membrane fluidity of erythrocytes in subjects with essential hypertension by means of an electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) and spin-labeling method. The values of the order parameter (S) and the peak height ratio (ho/h-1) obtained from the EPR spectra of erythrocytes were significantly greater in patients with essential hypertension (HT) than in age-matched normotensive subjects (NT) (S: HT 0.719 +/- 0.002, n = 16, NT 0.713 +/- 0.001, n = 29, P < .05; ho/h-1: HT 5.17 +/- 0.02, n = 16, NT 5.05 +/- 0.02, n = 29, P < .05). The finding indicated that the erythrocyte membrane fluidity was lower in patients with HT than in NT. Leptin decreased S and ho/h-1 in a dose-dependent manner in both NTs and HTs. The effect of leptin on the membrane fluidity was significantly more pronounced in HTs than in NTs (percent change in S: leptin 10(-8) g/mL, HT -3.4% +/- 0.2%, n = 16, NT -2.3% +/- 0.1%, n = 29, P < .05; leptin 10(-7) g/mL, HT -4.3% +/- 0.3%, n = 16, NT -3.3% +/- 0.1%, n = 29, P < .05). The results of the present study showed that leptin might have a crucial role in the regulation of the rheologic behavior of erythrocytes and the microcirculation in hypertension.
Oxytocin neurones are recruited into co-ordinated fluctuations of firing before bursting in the rat.	Hypothalamic oxytocin neurones have dual physiological functions with associated characteristic activity patterns: a homeostatic osmoregulatory role involving continuous low frequency firing at a relatively constant rate, and roles associated with reproduction involving periodic, brief, synchronised, high frequency bursts of spikes. Apparently the same neurones maintain both roles during reproduction, when both activity patterns occur simultaneously, although sometimes factors linked to the homeostatic response predominate and prevent bursting. With the object of understanding how oxytocin neuronal networks manage both roles during lactation, we analysed basal activity between bursts in simultaneously recorded neurones to reveal potentially adaptive changes in network behaviour. Negative autocorrelation on a time scale of 0.5-2 s occurs in basal activity between bursts but also in non-bursting oxytocin neurones, and can therefore be associated with the system's homeostatic role. Although the system responds to the pups suckling by the induction of bursting, there are also increasing fluctuations in firing that are positively correlated in some simultaneously recorded neurones during basal activity between bursts. A few seconds before bursts, cross-correlation strengthens, irregularity of firing increases, and serial correlation (autocorrelation) weakens, all substantially. After pharmacological treatments known to facilitate bursting, cross-correlation and irregularity of firing increase and autocorrelation weakens, and the reverse occurs in conditions that delay bursting (hyperosmotic stress and pharmacological interventions). Our analyses suggest heterogeneity in the population of oxytocin neurones during lactation; the range including 'leader neurones' that readily display co-ordinated fluctuations in firing in response to suckling and escape from negative autocorrelation just before bursts, and 'follower neurones' that fire at a relatively constant rate in no apparent relationship to others, except when recruited late to bursting, probably in response to massive stimulation from already bursting neurones. The steep increases in correlation a few seconds before bursts reflect an accelerating process of recruitment of follower neurones to co-ordinated fluctuations, leading to the phase transition that constitutes the critical stage of burst generation.
Association of a pulsatile blood flow pattern on coronary arteriography and short-term clinical outcomes in acute myocardial infarction.	We hypothesized that recognition of systolic flow reversal (pulsatile flow) after thrombolytic administration on coronary angiography is associated with angiographic and electrocardiogram findings reflecting impaired myocardial perfusion, as well as poorer clinical outcomes.
Adiponectin I164T mutation is associated with the metabolic syndrome and coronary artery disease.	This study examined the association of mutations in adiponectin gene with the prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD).
Impact of scar thickness on the assessment of viability using dobutamine echocardiography and thallium single-photon emission computed tomography: a comparison with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging.	We sought to determine whether the transmural extent of scar (TES) explains discordances between dobutamine echocardiography (DbE) and thallium single-photon emission computed tomography (Tl-SPECT) in the detection of viable myocardium (VM).
Hematocrit and left ventricular mass: the Framingham Heart study.	The goal of this study was to investigate the relationship between hematocrit (Hct) and left ventricular mass index (LVMI) and LV hypertrophy (LVH) in subjects without known hypertension or cardiovascular disease in the Framingham Heart study.
A novel application of myocardial contrast echocardiography to evaluate angiogenesis by autologous bone marrow cell transplantation in chronic ischemic pig model.	We investigated the feasibility of myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) to evaluate regional perfusion after bone marrow cell transplantation.
Magnetic resonance imaging and cardiac pacemaker safety at 1.5-Tesla.	The study was done to determine whether patients with pacemakers could safely undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 1.5-Tesla (T).
In vitro verification of antithrombotic effect of recombinant soluble nucleotide triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1.	Ecto-ADPase (NTPDase1 or CD39) has been identified on endothelial cells and found to be antithrombogenic, with actions resulting from degradation of adenosine diphosphate (ADP), a thrombogenic molecule secreted by activated platelets at sites of vascular injury. Reasoning that the ADPase activity of CD39 might provide clinical use as an antithrombotic agent, the authors investigate the comparative ability of the agent to inhibit platelet and fibrin deposition.
Myonecrosis following stent placement: association between impaired TIMI myocardial perfusion grade and MRI visualization of microinfarction.	Contrast-enhanced cardiac MRI (ceMRI) and TIMI myocardial perfusion grade analysis (TMPG) are proven methods for visualization of microinfarction and assessment of microvascular perfusion, respectively. To determine whether microvascular obstruction accounts for procedure-related myonecrosis, 14 poststent patients, 9 with procedural CK-MB elevation and 5 controls, underwent ceMRI and TMPG. All had TIMI 3 flow pre- and poststent. TMPG was normal in 12/14 pre- and 7/14 poststent. Those with poststent decline in TMPG had higher CK-MB (median, 41.0 vs. 7.4 ng/mL; P = 0.01) and larger infarct mass (median, 3.1 vs. 0.89 g; P = 0.04). More extensive myonecrosis (CK-MB > 3 x normal; infarct mass > 3 g) was observed more frequently if there was a poststent decline in TMPG (3/3, 100%, vs. 2/11, 18.2%; P = 0.03). These data support the theory that distal embolization and microvascular obstruction are associated with myonecrosis following otherwise successful coronary stent placement and provide further insight into its pathophysiology.
Advanced c-myc antisense (AVI-4126)-eluting phosphorylcholine-coated stent implantation is associated with complete vascular healing and reduced neointimal formation in the porcine coronary restenosis model.	An advanced six-ring morpholino backbone c-myc antisense (AVI-4126) was shown to inhibit c-myc expression and intimal hyperplasia after local catheter delivery in a porcine balloon injury model. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of an AVI-4126-eluting phosphorylcholine-coated (PC) stent on c-myc expression restenosis and vascular healing after stent implantation in porcine coronary arteries. PC stents were loaded with AVI-4126 using soak trap. Nine pigs underwent AVI-4126 PC coronary stent implantation (two stents/animal). Two to six hours postprocedure, three pigs were sacrificed and stented segments were analyzed by Western blot for c-myc expression. In chronic experiments, six pigs (12 stent sites) were sacrificed at 28 days following intervention and vessels were perfusion-fixed. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of plasma samples showed minimal presence of the antisense. Western blot analysis of the stented vessels demonstrated inhibition of c-myc expression at 2 and 6 hr after procedure. Quantitative histologic morphometry showed that the neointimal area was significantly reduced (by 40%) in the antisense-coated group compared with control (2.3 +/- 0.7 vs. 3.9 +/- 0.8 mm(2), respectively; P = 0.0077). Immunostaining and electron microscopy demonstrated complete endothelialization, without fibrin deposition, thrombosis, or necrosis in all implanted stents. In the porcine coronary model, an advanced c-myc-eluting PC stent blocked c-myc expression and significantly inhibited myointimal hyperplasia and allowed complete reendothelialization and healing response.
Orlistat, sibutramine, or combination therapy: which performs better on waist circumference in relation with body mass index in obese patients?	The aim of this study was to evaluate decrease in waist circumference in obese patients receiving different anti-obesity treatments. The study was designed as a short-term (12 weeks), open-label, and randomized trial. Eighty six patients (70 females, 81.4%; mean age 41.09+/-8.73 years, mean BMI 36.1+/-4.3 kg/m2) were randomized to four different therapy groups. The primary outcome parameters were waist circumference and body mass index (BMI). The therapy groups were a) diet+sibutramine 1 x 10 mg/d (n=22), b) diet+orlistat 3 x 120 mg/d (n=25), c) combination of diet+sibutramine+orlistat (n=20) and d) diet (n=19). Combination therapy was more effective than diet and orlistat mono-therapy (p<0.0001 for all), but not significantly superior to sibutramine mono-therapy (p=0.072) in decreasing BMI. Sibutramine mono-therapy was significantly more effective in inducing BMI decrease compared with orlistat mono-therapy (p=0.039). The association between change in BMI and change in waist circumference was strongest in the orlistat mono-therapy group (P interaction=0.003). This means that patients taking orlistat experienced more decrease in waist circumference (3.4 cm, R2=0.29) per unit decrease in BMI compared to patients under combination therapy (2.6 cm, R2=0.25, P interaction = 0.015) and patients taking sibutramine (1.8 cm, R2=0.19, P interaction=0.026). In the diet therapy group decline in waist circumference was independent of BMI (1.9 cm, R2=0.02, P interaction=0.076). Although combination therapy and sibutramine mono-therapy were more effective in decreasing BMI, reduction in waist circumference and BMI was most significantly associated with the orlistat mono-therapy group. This may hint at the possibility of orlistat inducing weight loss mainly in the abdominal area targeted to reduce cardiovascular risk.
Validity of the adaptive filter for accurate measurement of cardiac output in impedance cardiography.	The purpose of this study was to assess the validity of an adaptive filter, the scaled Fourier linear combiner (SFLC), in the impedance cardiography (ICG). Eight healthy males underwent constant-load bicycle exercise at different intensities from unloaded to near maximal intensity. The stroke volume (SV) and cardiac output (Q) measured by ICG at each condition were compared with those by the CO2 rebreathing method. We found that the noises were greatly reduced in the impedance waveform and that the inflection points, so-called the B- and X-points, were clearly detected even during strenuous exercise using the SFLC. Although a high correlation was observed between Qs measured by the two methods, the mean values of Qs in each method differed significantly and the regression line also differed significantly from the identity line. Likewise, a significant correlation was observed between SVs obtained by the two methods, but a significant difference in the group mean values and a trend of the regression line were observed. These findings suggest that the use of SFLC in ICG improves the performance in eliminating the noises and in detecting the inflection points in the waveform, thereby contributing to the accurate and beat-to-beat measurements of SV and Q especially during exercise.
Postretention relapse of mandibular anterior crowding in patients treated without mandibular premolar extraction.	Treatment stability is one of the most important objectives in orthodontics, but, despite decades of research, it is still agreed that the stability of aligned teeth is variable and largely unpredictable. This study aimed to evaluate the relapse of mandibular anterior crowding in patients treated without mandibular premolar extraction. The sample comprised 40 patients of both sexes with Class I or II malocclusions who received nonextraction treatment in the mandibular arch with edgewise mechanics. Lateral cephalograms and dental casts of each patient were obtained at pretreament, posttreatment, and 5 years postretention. Relapse of mandibular anterior crowding was assessed, and associations between this relapse and other clinical factors were also investigated. Mandibular anterior crowding was measured by the Little irregularity index, and the data were evaluated by the Mann-Whitney test. The mean relapse of mandibular anterior crowding was 1.95 mm (26.54%) over the long term. No clinical factor studied was predictive of crowding relapse in the long term.
Accuracy and feasibility of a simplified approach to assess the regurgitant orifice area in patients with mitral regurgitation.	Regurgitant orifice area (ROA) has been proposed as a marker of severity in patients with mitral regurgitation (MR). However, such fundamental quantitative echocardiographic parameter has failed to achieve widespread use, since it is difficult to measure. In the present study, we evaluated the accuracy and feasibility of a simplified method for quantification of ROA in patients with varying grades of MR.
Correlation of the M-mode atrioventricular plane early diastolic downward slope and systolic parameters. Coupling of LV systolic and early diastolic function.	The early diastolic downward slope (EDS) of the left atrioventricular plane displacement (AVPD) is a parameter of early left ventricular (LV) diastolic filling, particularly useful in revealing pseudonormalisation of the transmitral Doppler early to atrial (E/A) ratio. In recent studies LV early diastolic function seems to be closely linked to LV systolic function. In order to further examine this relationship we studied the correlation between EDS and traditional Doppler parameters of LV diastolic function as well as between EDS and systolic parameters.
Clinical relevance of left ventricular volumes and function assessed by gated SPECT in paediatric patients.	Left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes (EDV, ESV) and ejection fraction (EF) can be measured by echocardiography and gated single photon emission computed tomography (G-SPECT). The literature is rich in works on G-SPECT in adults, but lacks data for children. This work evaluates the accuracy of G-SPECT in children, compared to echocardiography.
Stress radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging detects more residual ischemia than stress echocardiography following acute myocardial infarction.	This investigation sought to compare the abilities of stress radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging and stress echocardiography to detect residual ischemia in patients following acute myocardial infarction (MI).
On the neurobiological investigation of language understanding in context.	There are two significant problems in using functional neuroimaging methods to study language. Improving the state of functional brain imaging will depend on understanding how the dependent measure of brain imaging differs from behavioral dependent measures (the "dependent measure problem") and how the activation of the motor system may be confounded with non-motor aspects of processing in certain experimental designs (the "motor output problem"). To address these problems, it may be necessary to shift the focus of language research from the study of linguistic competence to the understanding of language use. This will require investigations of language processing in full multi-modal and environmental context, monitoring of natural behaviors, novel experimental design, and network-based analysis. Such a combined naturalistic approach could lead to tremendous new insights into language and the brain.
Quantification of bone strontium levels in humans by in vivo x-ray fluorescence.	The need for in vivo bone strontium assessment arises because strontium may exert a number of effects on bone, which may be either beneficial or toxic. Measurements discussed here are noninvasive, no sample is taken, nor is there discomfort to patients. The developed source excited x-ray fluorescence system employs a 109Cd source to excite the strontium K x rays, with the source and detector in approximately 90 degree geometry relative to the sample position. The factors affecting the accuracy and minimal detectable limit for bone strontium in vivo measurements are discussed. A system calibration revealed a minimum detectible limit of approximately 0.25 mg Sr/g Ca, which is sufficient for the monitoring of strontium levels in healthy subjects and patients with elevated bone strontium concentrations. Preliminary in vivo measurements in ten healthy subjects at two bone sites (phalanx and tibia) indicated that this system can be applied for cumulative bone strontium estimation while delivering a low effective dose of 80 nSv during the measurement time. Future work will involve attempts to enhance system precision with alternative fluorescing sources and further optimization of the detection system.
Estimating the temporal interval entropy of neuronal discharge.	To better understand the role of timing in the function of the nervous system, we have developed a methodology that allows the entropy of neuronal discharge activity to be estimated from a spike train record when it may be assumed that successive interspike intervals are temporally uncorrelated. The so-called interval entropy obtained by this methodology is based on an implicit enumeration of all possible spike trains that are statistically indistinguishable from a given spike train. The interval entropy is calculated from an analytic distribution whose parameters are obtained by maximum likelihood estimation from the interval probability distribution associated with a given spike train. We show that this approach reveals features of neuronal discharge not seen with two alternative methods of entropy estimation. The methodology allows for validation of the obtained data models by calculation of confidence intervals for the parameters of the analytic distribution and the testing of the significance of the fit between the observed and analytic interval distributions by means of Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Anderson-Darling statistics. The method is demonstrated by analysis of two different data sets: simulated spike trains evoked by either Poissonian or near-synchronous pulsed activation of a model cerebellar Purkinje neuron and spike trains obtained by extracellular recording from spontaneously discharging cultured rat hippocampal neurons.
Are loss functions all the same?	In this letter, we investigate the impact of choosing different loss functions from the viewpoint of statistical learning theory. We introduce a convexity assumption, which is met by all loss functions commonly used in the literature, and study how the bound on the estimation error changes with the loss. We also derive a general result on the minimizer of the expected risk for a convex loss function in the case of classification. The main outcome of our analysis is that for classification, the hinge loss appears to be the loss of choice. Other things being equal, the hinge loss leads to a convergence rate practically indistinguishable from the logistic loss rate and much better than the square loss rate. Furthermore, if the hypothesis space is sufficiently rich, the bounds obtained for the hinge loss are not loosened by the thresholding stage.
Understanding vaccine safety information from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System.	The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) is administered by the Food and Drug Administration and CDC and is a key component of postlicensure vaccine safety surveillance. Its primary function is to detect early warning signals and generate hypotheses about possible new vaccine adverse events or changes in frequency of known ones. VAERS is a passive surveillance system that relies on physicians and others to voluntarily submit reports of illness after vaccination. Manufacturers are required to report all adverse events of which they become aware. There are a number of well-described limitations of such reporting systems. These include, for example, variability in report quality, biased reporting, underreporting and the inability to determine whether a vaccine caused the adverse event in any individual report. Strengths of VAERS are that it is national in scope and timely. The information in VAERS reports is not necessarily complete nor is it verified systematically. Reports are classified as serious or nonserious based on regulatory criteria. Reports are coded by VAERS in a uniform way with a limited number of terms using a terminology called COSTART. Coding is useful for search purposes but is necessarily imprecise. VAERS is useful in detecting adverse events related to vaccines and most recently was used for enhanced reporting of adverse events in the national smallpox immunization campaign. VAERS data have always been publicly available. However, it is essential for users of VAERS data to be fully aware of the strengths and weaknesses of the system. VAERS data contain strong biases. Incidence rates and relative risks of specific adverse events cannot be calculated. Statistical significance tests and confidence intervals should be used with great caution and not routinely. Signals detected in VAERS should be subjected to further clinical and descriptive epidemiologic analysis. Confirmation in a controlled study is usually required. An understanding of the system's defined objectives and inherent drawbacks is vital to the effective use of VAERS data in vaccine safety investigations.
Analysis of factors associated with prescription of a potentially inappropriate combination dermatological medication among US outpatient physicians.	Despite concern associated with the necessity of an additional fluorinated, high potency topical corticosteroid, the clotrimazole/betamethasone diproprionate combination remains a frequently prescribed topical agent in the US. This research was performed to better understand the physician and patient characteristics associated with the prescription of this combination medication in outpatient settings.
False-positive and true-negative hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes on FDG-PET--radiological-pathological correlation.	To compare histological findings of FDG-PET false-positive and true-negative hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes.
Elimination of the influence of total renal function on renal output efficiency and normalized residual activity.	One of the potential limitations in the usefulness of both renal output efficiency (ROE) and normalized residual activity (NORA) is their residual dependence on total renal function. The purpose of this study was to present and examine a new quantitative method whereby the effects of this dependence may be removed.
Quantitation of pulmonary transgene expression with PET imaging.	PET imaging represents a promising approach for noninvasive monitoring of reporter gene expression in living subjects. We evaluated the relationship between various methods of quantifying the imaging signal and in vitro assays of the expression of a PET reporter gene (a mutant Herpes simplex virus-1 thymidine kinase (mHSV1-tk); 9-(4-(18)F-fluoro-3-hydroxymethylbutyl)guanine ((18)F-FHBG) was used as the PET reporter probe.
No correlation between moving phosphene and motor thresholds: a transcranial magnetic stimulation study.	The aim of this study was to investigate the temporal stability of moving phosphenes and to assess whether moving phosphene thresholds (PTs) correlate with motor thresholds (MTs). Small moving sensations, so-called moving phosphenes, are perceived when V5, an area important for visual motion analysis, is stimulated by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). However, it is still a matter of debate if V5 phosphenes are stable sensations across measurements and if they are a reasonable index of the cortical excitability of V5. Currently, MT is more commonly used as an index of global cortical excitability. However, previous studies have indicated that stationary PTs are suitable alternatives when the primary visual cortex is stimulated by TMS. Using paired-pulse TMS, stationary and moving PTs and applying single pulse TMS, MTs were measured in 11 subjects. PTs were retested in nine subjects 5-7 days later. Stationary and moving PTs were stable within subjects across the two sessions and showed a high inter-correlation. Conversely, PTs and MTs did not correlate. Our results are in agreement with previous studies showing that excitatory measurements of one specific cortex cannot be generalized to the excitability of the whole cortex. Thus, we propose specific measures for cortices of interest: PT for visual experiments and MT for motor experiments.
Measurement of social physique anxiety in early adolescence.	The present study assessed the factorial validity and gender invariance of the Social Physique Anxiety Scale (SPAS) using a sample of young adolescents. Existing SPAS 12-item, one- and two-factor and truncated, one-factor (i.e., nine-item and seven-item) measurement models reported in the adult literature were explored, with emphasis placed on the truncated models.
Relation of type A behavior and multidimensionally measured narcissistic personality of Japanese university students.	The revised version of the Type A Behavior Assessment Scale and the Narcissistic Personality Inventory short version were administered to 104 university students. The former scale has three subscales, Impatience and Hostile Speech Style, Achievement Striving and Job Commitment, and Time Urgency. The latter scale has three subscales. Need for Attention and Praise, Sense of Superiority, and Competence and Self-assertion. Analysis gave a total of five significant correlations between the subscales of the two questionnaires; Impatience and Hostile Speech Style of Type A is positively correlated with scores on two subscales of the narcissism measure, Need for Attention and Praise. Self-assertion, and Achievement Striving and Job Commitment of Type A is positively correlated with scores on all three subscales of the narcissism measure.
Sociotropy-autonomy and situation-specific anxiety.	Sociotropy and autonomy are conceptualized as two personality dimensions that relate to individuals' vulnerability to anxiety and depression. Sociotropy is characterized as an excessive investment in interpersonal relationships, and autonomy is characterized as an excessive concern with independence as well as a lack of concern for others. The present study investigated the relationships between sociotropy-autonomy and trait anxiety associated with four types of situations, i.e., Social Evaluation, Physical Danger, Ambiguous Situation, and Daily Routine. 255 undergraduate students completed the Sociotropy-Autonomy Scale, the Endler Multidimensional Anxiety Scale, and the Beck Depression Inventory. Analyses indicated that scores on Sociotropy were positively correlated with rated trait anxiety in situations of Social Evaluation, Physical Danger, and Ambiguous Situations, whereas scores on Autonomy were positively correlated with rated trait anxiety in Daily Routines. These findings are discussed in the context of the diathesis-stress model of anxiety and depression.
Ryff's psychological well-being inventory: factorial structure and life history correlates among Japanese university students.	The theoretical model of psychological well-being that encompasses six domains (self-acceptance, positive relations with others, autonomy, environmental mastery, purpose in life, and personal growth) was tested with a Japanese university student population (N = 574) using a Japanese translation of Ryff's 1989 Psychological Well-being Inventory. A factor structure similar to Ryff's original model emerged. Both depression and anxiety correlated only moderately with scores on some subscales of the inventory, suggesting the relative independence of these dimensions of psychological well-being and negative affectivity. With negative affectivity controlled, some early life experiences were significantly linked with psychological well-being: relationships with romantic partners were linked with greater autonomy and experiences which enhance self-esteem were liked with greater personal growth. Careful psychometric work on the Japanese version is required to use the scale; then a replication and extension of the present study would be feasible.
Violent cultural factors and serial homicide by males.	Explaining the phenomenon of male serial homicide has usually been approached from a psychiatric perspective. However, recent integrative theory suggests that cultural factors may play a role in shaping the psychology of young males with particular psychiatric and possibly neurological vulnerabilities in such ways as to facilitate converting the motivation to kill into actual behavior. Present results indicated that 34-45% of the interstate variation in rates of serial killer activity could be accounted for by three dimensions of local culture. Higher rates of male serial killer activity were associated with a local state culture supportive of game hunting and military training and a local culture supportive of punitive violence. The findings must be viewed with caution since societal variables are complex and the results are based on correlations which cannot be causally interpreted without more direct evidence of validity.
Correlates of the Gudjonsson Suggestibility Scale in delinquent adolescents.	Correlations between scores on the Gudjonsson Suggestibility Scale and a number of relevant personality characteristics, i.e., intelligence, memory, social inadequacy, social desirability, and fantasy proneness, were examined in a sample of 71 delinquent boys. Analysis showed that intelligence and memory were negatively related to suggestibility scores. That is, lower memory and intelligence were associated with higher suggestibility. No significant correlations were found between suggestibility and other personality characteristics.
Leptin and heart sympathetic activity in normotensive obese and non-obese subjects.	In rats leptin increases sympathetic activity, and an inhibitory effect on leptin synthesis and release has been demonstrated for the catecholamines, both in adipocyte cell cultures and in healthy experimental animals. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between leptin and heart sympathetic activity as well as changes in leptin levels after the administration of drugs that modify sympathetic activity.
Plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha correlate with the six-minute walk test results in patients with mild to moderate heart failure.	The plasma levels of brain natriuretic peptide, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, big endothelin-1 and cardiac troponins have been reported to correlate with the severity of heart failure.
Cerebrospinal fluid insulin-like growth factor-1, insulin growth factor binding protein-2 or nitric oxide are not increased in MS or ALS.	Many studies have shown that nitric oxide (NO) and growth factors including insulin growth factors (IGFs) may be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) and neurodegenerative diseases. Our previous studies suggested a relationship between cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) NO metabolites (nitrates and nitrites, NN(x)) and IGF-1 in patients with progressive encephalopathy, hypsarrhythmia and optic atrophy syndrome.
Positive and negative network correlations in temporal lobe epilepsy.	Temporal lobe seizures are accompanied by complex behavioral phenomena including loss of consciousness, dystonic movements and neuroendocrine changes. These phenomena may arise from extended neural networks beyond the temporal lobe. To investigate this, we imaged cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes during human temporal lobe seizures with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) while performing continuous video/EEG monitoring. We found that temporal lobe seizures associated with loss of consciousness produced CBF increases in the temporal lobe, followed by increases in bilateral midline subcortical structures. These changes were accompanied by marked bilateral CBF decreases in the frontal and parietal association cortex. In contrast, temporal lobe seizures in which consciousness was spared were not accompanied by these widespread CBF changes. The CBF decreases in frontal and parietal association cortex were strongly correlated with increases in midline structures such as the mediodorsal thalamus. These results suggest that impaired consciousness in temporal lobe seizures may result from focal abnormal activity in temporal and subcortical networks linked to widespread impaired function of the association cortex.
The expression of the phosphotyrosine phosphatase DEP-1/PTPeta dictates the responsivity of glioma cells to somatostatin inhibition of cell proliferation.	Here we characterize the intracellular effectors of the antiproliferative activity of somatostatin in glioma cell lines and post-surgical specimens. The responsiveness to somatostatin correlated with the expression of the phosphotyrosine phosphatase DEP-1/PTPeta, identified in C6 and U87MG cells, in which somatostatin inhibited cell growth. The expression of a dominant negative mutant of DEP-1/PTPeta in C6 cells abolished somatostatin effects, confirming the involvement of this phosphotyrosine phosphatase in such effects. Somatostatin treatment increased the activity of DEP-1/PTPeta and inhibited ERK1/2 activation. Conversely, basic fibroblast growth factor-dependent MEK phosphorylation was not affected, suggesting a direct effect on ERK1/2. In vitro experiments showed that PTPeta was able to interact and dephosphorylate ERK1/2 activated by basic fibroblast growth factor. Furthermore, by transfecting PTPeta in the somatostatin-unresponsive, DEP-1/PTPeta-deficient U373MG cells, the somatostatin-dependent control of cell proliferation was recovered. Finally we evaluated the requirement for DEP-1/PTPeta in somatostatin inhibition of cell proliferation in post-surgical specimens derived from different grade human gliomas. Although all of the glioma analyzed expressed somatostatin receptor mRNA, DEP-1/PTPeta expression was limited to 8 of 22 of the tumors. Culturing seven gliomas, a correlation between the expression of DEP-1/PTPeta and the somatostatin antiproliferative effects was identified. In conclusion we propose that the expression and activation of DEP-1/PTPeta is required for somatostatin inhibition of glioma proliferation.
Transcription of the yeast iron regulon does not respond directly to iron but rather to iron-sulfur cluster biosynthesis.	Saccharomyces cerevisiae responds to iron deprivation by increased transcription of the iron regulon, including the high affinity cell-surface transport system encoded by FET3 and FTR1. Here we demonstrate that transcription of these genes does not respond directly to cytosolic iron but rather to the mitochondrial utilization of iron for the synthesis of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters. We took advantage of a mutant form of an iron-dependent enzyme in the sterol pathway (Erg25-2p) to assess cytosolic iron levels. We showed that disruption of mitochondrial Fe-S biosynthesis, which results in excessive mitochondrial iron accumulation, leads to transcription of the iron transport system independent of the cytosolic iron level. There is an inverse correlation between the activity of the mitochondrial Fe-S-containing enzyme aconitase and the induction of FET3. Regulation of transcription by Fe-S biosynthesis represents a mechanism by which cellular iron acquisition is integrated with mitochondrial iron metabolism.
Spike-timing dynamics of neuronal groups.	A neuronal network inspired by the anatomy of the cerebral cortex was simulated to study the self-organization of spiking neurons into neuronal groups. The network consisted of 100 000 reentrantly interconnected neurons exhibiting known types of cortical firing patterns, receptor kinetics, short-term plasticity and long-term spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), as well as a distribution of axonal conduction delays. The dynamics of the network allowed us to study the fine temporal structure of emerging firing patterns with millisecond resolution. We found that the interplay between STDP and conduction delays gave rise to the spontaneous formation of neuronal groups--sets of strongly connected neurons capable of firing time-locked, although not necessarily synchronous, spikes. Despite the noise present in the model, such groups repeatedly generated patterns of activity with millisecond spike-timing precision. Exploration of the model allowed us to characterize various group properties, including spatial distribution, size, growth, rate of birth, lifespan, and persistence in the presence of synaptic turnover. Localized coherent input resulted in shifts of receptive and projective fields in the model similar to those observed in vivo.
Effects of the reduction of preload on left and right ventricular myocardial velocities analyzed by Doppler tissue echocardiography in healthy subjects.	Previous studies using Doppler Tissue Echocardiography (DTE) have suggested that the early-diastolic myocardial velocity behaves as a relatively load-independent index of left ventricular relaxation in patients with cardiac diseases; it is not ascertained if this holds true also in normal human hearts.
Reduced coronary flow reserve in the coronary sinus is a predictor of hemodynamically significant stenoses of the left coronary artery territory.	The role of transesophageal Doppler assessment of coronary flow reserve (CFR) in the coronary sinus (CS) in the diagnostics of significant left coronary artery (LCA) stenoses was studied in 65 CAD patients with angiographically proven >50% stenotic atherosclerosis of the LCA territory (38--with isolated left anterior descending artery (LAD) or left circumflex artery (Cx) stenosis; 27--with both LAD and Cx stenoses) and 31 healthy volunteers (all men). Dipyridamole was used as a stress agent. The antegrade phase of coronary flow in the CS moving into the right atrium was analysed. CFR in the CS was calculated in two ways: (1) as ratio of hyperemic to baseline peak antegrade flow velocity (CFRp); (2) as ratio of hyperemic to baseline volumetric blood flow velocity (CFRv). The level of CFR <2.0 in both ways of calculation was diagnosed as reduced.
Effects of propranolol on symptom and endocrine responses to pentagastrin.	Intravenous injections of CCK-B agonists, such as pentagastrin, produce symptoms of panic and potent activation of the human hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. It is unclear whether these psychological and endocrine effects are mediated by similar or independent processes. Independence is supported by prior evidence that beta-adrenergic receptor blockade attenuates cardiovascular and symptom but not vasopressin responses to CCK-4. To further explore associations between somatic, emotional and endocrine responses to CCK-B agents, and potential beta-adrenergic mediating mechanisms, symptom and endocrine responses to pentagastrin were examined after propranolol pre-treatment. Cardiovascular, symptom, and endocrine (ACTH, cortisol, epinephrine) responses to pentagastrin were measured in 16 healthy adult subjects randomly assigned to receive propranolol or placebo pre-treatment. Propranolol significantly blocked the normal cardiac acceleration produced by pentagastrin, but did not reduce panic symptom or anxiety effects. It delayed and perhaps enhanced the cortisol response. No relationship between HPA and symptom responses following pentagastrin could be detected, though pre-pentagastrin cortisol was inversely related to post-injection panic symptom intensity. Endocrine, cardiovascular and symptom responses to pentagastrin appear to be separately mediated, as they did not change in concert in response to propranolol pre-treatment, nor were they correlated with one another. The results are consistent with the presence of inhibitory beta-adrenergic mediation of the HPA axis in humans. They support the hypothesis that the HPA response to pentagastrin is not secondary to the psychological stress of its side effects.
Flattened cortisol rhythms in metastatic breast cancer patients.	Allostatic load, the physiological accumulation of the effects of chronic stressors, has been associated with multiple adverse health outcomes. Flattened diurnal cortisol rhythmicity is one of the prototypes of allostatic load, and has been shown to predict shorter survival among women with metastatic breast cancer. The current study compared diurnal cortisol slope in 17 breast cancer patients and 31 controls, and tested associations with variables previously found to be related to cortisol regulation, i.e, abdominal adiposity, perceived stress, social support, and explicit memory. Women with metastatic breast cancer had significantly flatter diurnal cortisol rhythms than did healthy controls. Patients with greater disease severity showed higher mean cortisol levels, smaller waist circumference, and a tendency toward flatter diurnal cortisol rhythms. There were no relations between cortisol slope and psychological or cognitive functioning among patients. In contrast, controls with flatter rhythms showed the expected allostatic load profile of larger waist circumference, poorer performance on explicit memory tasks, lower perceived social support, and a tendency toward higher perceived stress. These findings suggest that the cortisol diurnal slope may have important but different correlates in healthy women versus those with breast cancer.
The relationship between reading ability and lateralized lexical decision.	Although lexical decision remains one of the most extensively studied cognitive tasks, very little is known about its relationship to broader linguistic performance such as reading ability. In a correlational study, several aspects of lateralized lexical decision performance were related to vocabulary and reading comprehension measures, as assessed using the Nelson-Denny Reading Test. This lateralized lexical decision task has been previously shown to demonstrate (1) independent contributions from both hemispheres, as well as (2) interhemispheric interactions during word recognition. Lexical decision performance showed strong relationships with both reading measures. Specifically, vocabulary performance correlated significantly with left visual field (LVF) word accuracy and LVF non-word latency, both measures of right hemisphere performance. There were also significant, though somewhat weaker, correlations between reading comprehension and RVF non-word latency. Lexicality priming, a measure of interhemispheric communication during lexical decision, was also correlated with reading comprehension. These results suggest that hemispheric interaction during word recognition is common, and that lexical processing contribution from the right hemisphere, something commonly taken as minor and inconsequential, can lead to significant performance benefits and to individual differences in reading.
Reduced pH and chloride levels in exhaled breath condensate of patients with chronic cough.	Increased hydrogen and reduced chloride ionic environments of the airways are conducive to the stimulation of cough. However, the constituents of the local milieu of the airways of patients with chronic cough are unknown.
Neurohormonal response to left ventricular reconstruction surgery in ischemic cardiomyopathy.	Activation of the neuroendocrine axis in congestive heart failure is of prognostic significance, and neurohumoral blocking therapy prolongs survival. The hypothesis that surgical reduction of left ventricular size and function decreases neuroendocrine activation is less established. We evaluated the neurohormonal response to left ventricular reconstruction surgery in ischemic cardiomyopathy.
Ventricular function after coronary artery bypass grafting: evaluation by magnetic resonance imaging and myocardial strain analysis.	Magnetic resonance imaging with radiofrequency tissue tagging permits quantitative assessment of regional systolic myocardial strain. We sought to investigate the utility of this imaging modality to quantitatively determine preoperative impairment and postoperative improvement in ventricular function in patients with ischemic heart disease.
The relationship between occupational stress and job satisfaction in orthodontics.	The goal of this project was to describe the relationship between overall occupational stress (OS), categories of stressors, overall job satisfaction (JS), and facets of JS in orthodontics. Canadian orthodontists were mailed an anonymous, self-administered survey. The response rate was 51.2% (335 of 654). The survey included a list of 67 potential stressors representing 6 categories, an overall OS score, and a modified version of the Dentists Satisfaction Survey (DSS). The correlation between the overall OS score and the overall JS scale of the DSS was r = -0.392. The overall OS scores were most strongly correlated to satisfaction with personal time (r = -0.385, P <.01) and satisfaction with practice management (r = -0.334, P <.01). Work-related stressors (r = -0.301, P <.01) and income-related stressors (r = -0.268, P <.01) were the categories with the highest correlation to the overall JS scale. Orthodontists reporting low OS had significantly higher satisfaction scores on all sections of the DSS. This difference was greatest in satisfaction with personal time and practice management. The results indicate the importance of OS in determining JS in orthodontics.
The one fixed point in a changing age. An analysis of half-secular trends among original papers published in The Lancet 1945-95.	We performed a systematic survey of original papers published in The Lancet throughout the years 1945, 1946, 1970 and 1995. The Lancet was chosen due to a conservative layout through these years, and the year 1946 added to the analysis to ponder for any war-induced bias. The general layout and structure of the journal were indeed maintained throughout these years. The number of authors per paper increased steadily (from 1.7 +/- 1.3 in 1945 to 6.4 +/- 3.4 in 1995), as well as the number of papers written on behalf of investigation groups (from 1 in 1945 to 37 in 1995). Major changes were observed in the area of origin of the papers, from an overwhelming British Isles' preponderance (87% of papers published in 1945) to a partake with Continental Europe, America and international groups (27, 33, 15 and 12%, respectively of the 1995 papers). The most often addressed fields of medicine shifted from war-, surgery- and microbiology-related subjects in 1945 towards cardiology-, oncology-, and virus-related works in 1995. The most impressive and enduring change was the increase in the use of statistical tools for data analysis and presentation (0.3% of papers in 1945 vs. 60% in 1995).
A note on the genome scan meta-analysis statistic.	Wise and colleagues (Ann. Hum. Genet. (1999) 63: 263-72) introduced a rank-based statistical technique for meta-analysis of genome scans, the Genome Scan Meta-Analysis (GSMA) method. We provide an alternative derivation of the null distribution of the GSMA statistic, with extensions, and we suggest approximations to the distribution of the GSMA statistic that may be useful in applications.
The C677T polymorphism of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene is associated with the level of decrease on diastolic blood pressure in essential hypertension patients treated by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor.	Elevated plasma homocysteine has been implicated as a risk factor for hypertension. C677T polymorphism in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR) is a major determinant of hyperhomocysteinemia, which results in endothelial dysfunction. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors appear to remedy the endothelial dysfunction and restore endothelium-dependent vasodilatation. The co-existence of genetic polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes, targets, receptors, and transporters may influence the drug efficacy. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether short-term blood pressure control by benazepril, an ACE inhibitor, was modulated by C677T MTHFR gene polymorphism.
Antipsychotics and the risk of sudden cardiac death.	Antipsychotics have been associated with prolongation of the corrected QT interval and sudden cardiac death. Only a few epidemiological studies have investigated this association. We performed a case-control study to investigate the association between use of antipsychotics and sudden cardiac death in a well-defined community-dwelling population.
Burden of medical illness in women with depression and posttraumatic stress disorder.	Depression and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are important women's health issues. Depression is known to be associated with poor physical health; however, associations between physical health and PTSD, a common comorbidity of depression, have received less attention.
Change in cognitive function by glucose tolerance status in older adults: a 4-year prospective study of the Rancho Bernardo study cohort.	A few studies have examined change in cognitive performance by diabetes status with disparate results. We examined the 4-year change in cognitive performance among older adults according to glucose tolerance status.
Distribution of surnames and linguistic-cultural identities of the Slovenian and German minorities of northeastern Italy.	In this study we have compared the structure of surnames of Slovenian and German (Carinthian) minorities of northeastern Italy with other municipalities of the neighbourhood. The analysis has been carried out by using estimates of the similarities between populations and the topological representation obtained by them, as well as the spatial autocorrelation. On the whole, this research shows some distinctions which depend on the territorial geography, especially in the mountainous area. Moreover, movements of individuals in the limited zones of the plain are evident, probably due to socioeconomic conditions, the moving of the people and their change of dwelling. Finally, it is probable that different Slovenian dialects generated characteristic structures of surnames which were well preserved in the most peripherical municipalities of the territory.
Anthropometric parameters and sexual maturation in 12- to 15-year-old Estonian boys.	The aims of this study were 1. to fix main sexual maturation signs and anthropometric measurements, and 2. to investigate relations between maturational status and main anthropometric parameters (i.e. skinfolds, girths, lengths, breadths/lengths) in 12-15-year old boys. In total, 361 boys from Tartu, Estonia, were studied. Body height and weight, 9 skinfolds, 13 girths, 8 lengths and 8 breadths/lengths were measured. Pubertal stages were determined according to the criteria described by Tanner (1962). Self-assessment of pubic hair (PH1-PH5) was used. Genital development (G1-G5) was estimated by palpating the left testis and matching the size of wood ovoid of the Prader orchidometer. Finally, boys were asked about oigarche (= age at the first ejaculation of sperm). Most of the measured anthropometric variables were significantly different in boys of different chronological age and sexual maturity groups. By linear discriminant analysis, the safety of separation of the chronological age groups was higher than by sexual maturation variables. Nonlinear discriminant analysis allowed to separate sexual maturity groups by anthropometric variables up to 99% security. It was concluded that though the growth and development of a child is highly individual, on an average the anthropometric characteristics alter very constantly with the increase of age and biological maturation. Our results indicated that there were some significant differences in the anthropometrical parameters depending on the chronological age and biological maturation. Mostly length and breadth/length parameters change during the studied age period in respect to sexual development subgroups of boys. The skinfold thicknesses were not changed or even decreased.
Direct and indirect interrelations between anthropometric and physiological variables in athletic and non-athletic adolescent girls: a path-analytic study.	Our previous analysis of anthropometric and exercise test data of 62 athletic and 56 non-athletic girls (age range 10.5-15.5 years) showed that the intensity of habitual exercise failed to discriminate between the group means of the studied variables. However, the patterns of intervariable correlations differed between the subgroups categorized by physical activity. The present paper studies the problem of this difference further by using exploratory multivariate regression of aerobic power (VO2max) on 10 anthropometric variables and age. The VO2(max) regression was significant (Y(nonathletic) = 0.0194x(1) + 0.004x(2) - 0.371x(3) + 0.045x(4) - 0.177x(5) + 0.070x(6) - 0.271x(7) - 0.170x(8) + 0.015x(9) - 0.0005x(10) + 0.185x(11), SEE = 0.37, R2 = 0.71, F(11.44) = 9.63; Y(athletic) = 0.029x(1) + 0.063x(2) + 0.277x(3) - 0.030x(4) - 0.069x(5) + 0.151x(6) - 0.148x(7) + 0.001x(8) + 0.018x(9) - 0.019x(10) - 0.065x(11), SEE = 0.32, R2 = 0.71, F(11.50) = 11.30), but none or only one of the independent variables had a significant partial regression coefficient. The individual VO2(max) estimates were studied in both groups by using the other group's regression formula to rule out sample dependence. Both formulae gave good approximations of the observed values in spite of the dissimilar regression coefficients. The path analysis of the respective criterion-predictor correlation coefficients confirmed that the relationship of the predictor variables with VO2(max) involved quantitatively direct and indirect effects in the non-athletic and athletic groups.
Methods for analysis of skewed data distributions in psychiatric clinical studies: working with many zero values.	Psychiatric clinical studies, including those in drug abuse research, often provide data that are challenging to analyze and use for hypothesis testing because they are heavily skewed and marked by an abundance of zero values. The authors consider methods of analyzing data with those characteristics.
Methods of assessing the functional status of patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction in interventional studies: can brain natriuretic peptide measurement be used as surrogate for the traditional methods?	To review whether brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) can be used as a surrogate for the traditional methods of assessing functional status in interventional studies of patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD).
1H and 13C HR-MAS spectroscopy of intact biopsy samples ex vivo and in vivo 1H MRS study of human high grade gliomas.	High-resolution magic angle spinning (HR-MAS) one- and two-dimensional 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy has been used to study intact glioblastoma (GBM) brain tumour tissue. The results were compared with in vitro chemical extract and in vivo spectra. The resolution of 1H one-dimensional, 1H TOCSY and 13C HSQC HR-MAS spectra is comparable to that obtained on perchloric extracts. 13C HSQC HR-MAS spectra have been particularly useful for the identification of 37 different metabolites in intact biopsy tumours, excluding water and DSS components. To our knowledge, this is the most detailed assignment of biochemical compounds obtained in intact human tissue, in particular in brain tumour tissue. Tissue degradation during the recording of the NMR experiment was avoided by keeping the sample at a temperature of 4 degrees C. Detailed metabolical compositions of 10 GBM (six primary, two secondary and two unclassified) were obtained. A good correlation between ex vivo and in vivo MRS has been found.
Tests of statistical significance in three biomedical journals: a critical review]	To describe the use of conventional tests of statistical significance and the current trends shown by their use in three biomedical journals read in Spanish-speaking countries.
The relationship between clinical stage, prognosis and myocardial damage in patients with Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy: five-year follow-up study.	The evaluation of myocardial damage by [123I] 15-(p-iodophenyl)-3-(R,S)-methylpentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) imaging, which represents free fatty acid metabolism, has not been reported in patients with Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy (DMD). To date, the relationship between clinical stage, prognosis and myocardial damage has not been evaluated by radionuclear cardiac imaging. The main goal of this study was to elucidate the relationship of quantitative indices of myocardial damage obtained by radionuclear cardiac imaging ([201Tl] and [123I] BMIPP) to clinical stage and incidence of severe cardiac events in patients with Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy (DMD).
The influence of exercise tolerance on quality of life among patients with heart failure.	The purpose of this study was to explore the influence of exercise tolerance on quality of life (QOL) among patients with heart failure (HF). A descriptive correlational design was used to guide the study. Forty-nine participants who met the selection criteria were enrolled at a medical center in Taipei. Data were collected by using the Short-Form 36 and treadmill tests including an exercise intensity-increasing test and duration-increasing test. The results revealed the mean scores of QOL in terms of physical functioning and mental functioning were 66.99 and 68.82, respectively. The average peak VO2 (exercise intensity tolerance) was 4.65 mets. The average exercise duration tolerances were 768.55, 1717.04 and 1923.48 s for reaching 50% heart rate reserve (HRR), 90% HRR, and completing the whole test, respectively. Patients whose exercise intensity tolerance was > or = 5 mets or whose exercise duration tolerance was > or = 1800 s had better physical functioning, but a significant difference in mental functioning was not observed between the two groups. The findings of the study support the view that exercise testing is safe, feasible, and effective in evaluating exercise tolerance, and that both exercise duration and exercise intensity tolerance were important factors in determining QOL, particularly in physical functioning, for HF patients.
Relationship between plasma nitric oxide concentration and insulin resistance in essential hypertension.	Plasma nitric oxide (NOx) concentrations in patients with essential hypertension (EH) have been reported to be higher, lower, or no different than in normotensives. This study was initiated to determine whether these inconsistent findings were related to differences in insulin resistance.
Nitric oxide synthase gene polymorphism (G894T) influences arterial stiffness in adults: The Bogalusa Heart Study.	The endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene is known to influence the regulation of blood pressure (BP) levels. However, whether the eNOS gene locus influences arterial stiffness independently of BP is unknown. This study examines the independent effect of the eNOS gene polymorphism (G894T) on arterial stiffness in 118 African American and 285 white young adults, aged 25 to 37 years. Arterial stiffness was measured from M-mode ultrasounds of common carotid artery using Peterson's (Ep) and Young's (YEM) elastic modulus. African Americans displayed a lower frequency of the T allele than did whites (0.131 v 0.321, P <.001). The T allele was associated with lower systolic BP in African Americans (P =.04) but not in whites. African Americans showed significantly higher values of Ep (that is, increased stiffness) than did whites (49.9 kPa vs 45.5 kPa, P =.003), whereas no such difference in ethnicity was found for YEM, a measure of elasticity adjusted for relative wall thickness. After controlling for sex, age, body mass index, insulin, heart rate, and mean arterial pressure, the T allele was associated with significantly lower values of Ep (P =.037) and YEM (P =.068) in African Americans. Although the genotype effect on Ep and YEM was not significant in whites, trends were similar to those in African Americans. In the total sample, including ethnicity as an additional covariate, the G894T genotype was significantly associated with Ep (P =.046) and YEM (P =.035). These results suggest that the allelic variation (G894T) of the eNOS gene or a locus closely linked to it is associated with lower arterial wall stiffness, adjusting for BP levels, in young adults.
Relation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene to plasma nitric oxide level, endothelial function, and blood pressure in African Americans.	The role of eNOS gene polymorphisms on plasma nitrite or nitrate (NOx) level, endothelial function, and blood pressure (BP) remains unclear.
Association between prehypertension status and inflammatory markers related to atherosclerotic disease: The ATTICA Study.	We sought to evaluate the association between prehypertension status and inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, white blood cells, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, amyloid-a, homocysteine, and fibrinogen), in a random sample of cardiovascular disease-free adults.
Maternal plasma lipid concentrations in early pregnancy and risk of preeclampsia.	We investigated the relationship between early pregnancy plasma lipid concentrations and risk of preeclampsia.
Adrenal medullary overactivity in lean, borderline hypertensive young men.	There may be a link among stress, adrenal medullary activation, and the development of hypertension. Obesity is characterized by sympathetic activation and predisposes to hypertension, but may be associated with low or normal adrenal medullary activity. We hypothesized that plasma epinephrine (E) levels and adrenal medullary responsiveness to mental stress are lower in overweight than in lean borderline hypertensive subjects.
No association of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 gene (ACE2) polymorphisms with essential hypertension.	Recent intriguing findings from genetic linkage, knockout, and physiologic studies in mice and rats led us to conduct the first investigation of the novel angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 gene (ACE2) in human hypertension (HT). We genotyped four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) (A-->G at nucleotide 1075 in intron 1, G-->A at nucleotide 8790 in intron 3, C-->G at nucleotide 28330 in intron 11, and G-->C at nucleotide 36787 in intron 16) in HT (n = 152) and normotensive (NT, n = 193) groups having inherently high biological power (>80%) due to our inclusion only of subjects whose parents had the same BP status as themselves. The SNPs were in linkage disequilibrium (D' = 54% to 100%, P =.05 to 0.0001). Because ACE2 is on the X chromosome, data for each sex were analyzed separately. Minor allele frequencies in HT versus NT were as follows: for the intron 1 variant 0.21 versus 0.17 in female subjects (P =.31) and 0.25 versus 0.29 in male subjects (P =.60); intron 3 variant 0.22 versus 0.18 in female subjects (P =.35) and 0.15 versus 0.20 in male subjects (P =.47); intron 11 variant 0.39 versus 0.46 in male subjects (P = 0.17) and 0.31 versus 0.30 in male subjects (P =.96); intron 16 variant 0.20 versus 0.19 in female subjects (P =.72) and 0.17 versus 0.17 in male subjects (P =.95). Haplotype analysis was also negative. These data provide little support for ACE2 in genetic predisposition to HT.
Impact on cytoprotective efficacy of intermediate interval between amifostine administration and radiotherapy: a retrospective analysis.	To evaluate the cytoprotective impact of the interval between amifostine administration and radiotherapy (RT).
Reduced collateral circulation to the infarct-related artery in elderly patients with acute myocardial infarction.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that circulation via collateral vessels to an infarct-related artery (IRA) is impaired with aging in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Interleukin-10 serum levels and systemic endothelial vasoreactivity in patients with coronary artery disease.	Because the endothelium is a major target for inflammatory cytokines, we investigated whether elevated interleukin (IL)-10 serum levels are associated with improved endothelial vasoreactivity in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
Clinical, angiographic, and intravascular ultrasound characteristics of early saphenous vein graft failure.	We sought to examine saphenous vein graft (SVG) lesions that fail within the first year after operation.
The angiographic and clinical benefits of mibefradil in the coronary slow flow phenomenon.	The aim of the study was to assess the angiographic and clinical benefits of the calcium T-channel blocker, mibefradil, in the coronary slow flow phenomenon (CSFP).
Prognostic value of plasma erythropoietin on mortality in patients with chronic heart failure.	This study aimed to investigate the prognostic importance of plasma erythropoietin (EPO) levels in chronic heart failure (CHF) patients.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy improves central sleep apnea and Cheyne-Stokes respiration in patients with chronic heart failure.	We studied the effects of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) on heart failure (HF) patients with central sleep apnea (CSA).
Patient alert in implantable cardioverter defibrillators: toy or tool?	The purpose of this study was to analyze the utility of patient-alert features in implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs).
Electrophysiologic and electroanatomic changes in the human atrium associated with age.	The purpose of this study was to characterize the pattern of atrial remodeling seen with human aging.
Quantification of stenotic mitral valve area with magnetic resonance imaging and comparison with Doppler ultrasound.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability of the pressure half-time (PHT) method for estimating mitral valve areas (MVAs) by velocity-encoded cardiovascular magnetic resonance (VE-CMR) and to compare the method with paired Doppler ultrasound.
Serial left ventricular adaptations in world-class professional cyclists: implications for disease screening and follow-up.	The purpose of this research was to study long-term left ventricular (LV) adaptations in very-high-level endurance athletes.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in hypertensive patients is associated with a reduction in the occurrence of atrial fibrillation.	The objective of this study was to determine the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition (ACEI) versus long-acting calcium-channel blockade (CCB) on atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients with hypertension.
Genotypes associated with myocardial infarction risk are more common in African Americans than in European Americans.	This study was designed to describe the frequencies of multiple myocardial infarction (MI) risk-associated genotypes among different racial groups.
Heritability and correlates of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the Framingham Offspring Study.	We sought to determine the clinical factors and heritability associated with inflammation measured as circulating levels of soluble-intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) in a community-based cohort.
State-mandated continuing medical education and the use of proven therapies in patients with an acute myocardial infarction.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether state-mandated continuing medical education (CME) requirements affect the use of evidence-based therapies and outcomes in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Risk factors for nursing home placement following major nonemergent surgery.	To determine the association between self-reported exercise tolerance and the risk of unanticipated postoperative nursing home placement in adults undergoing major surgery.
Investigation of freeze-drying sublimation rates using a freeze-drying microbalance technique.	This study was to investigate the effects of different freeze-drying factors on the rate of sublimation. The experiments were carried out in a custom-built freeze-drying microbalance to accurately monitor the sample temperature and control the chamber pressure. Twenty-four experiments were conducted based on a full factorial design by changing four factors: freezing rate (fast freezing or slow freezing), chamber temperature (35, 0, or -35 degrees C), chamber pressure (30 or 1000 mTorr), and the presence or absence of an annealing process. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), a tetrameric protein, was selected as a model protein for this study. The statistical analysis of the experimental results revealed that chamber temperature, analogous to the shelf temperature, in this experiment system, had the greatest impact on the sublimation rate. High chamber temperature resulted in high sublimation rate, regardless of the chamber pressure and thermal history of the sample. Chamber pressure was an important factor affecting the sublimation rate. In addition, both chamber temperature and chamber pressure had significant impact on sample temperature during freeze-drying. Annealing the samples was the most critical step to preserve good freeze-dried cake structure.
Serum levels of lipids and lipoproteins in Syrian patients with beta-thalassemia major.	Evaluation serum lipids, lipoprotein (a), apolipoprotein A1, apolipoprotein B and total antioxidant status (TAS) in syrian patients with beta-thalassemia major.
Immunological changes in acute myocardial infarction.	This study was undertaken to investigate troponin and lymphocyte subset changes in acute myocardial infarctions (AMI) and to correlate these changes with disease variables.
Diffuse axonal injury in children: clinical correlation with hemorrhagic lesions.	An inception cohort of 40 children and adolescents with traumatic brain injury and suspected diffuse axonal injury were studied using a new high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging susceptibility-weighted technique that is very sensitive for hemorrhage. A blinded comparison was performed between the extent of parenchymal hemorrhage and initial clinical variables as well as outcomes measured at 6 to 12 months after injury. Children with lower Glasgow Coma Scale scores (< or =8, n = 30) or prolonged coma (>4 days, n = 20) had a greater average number (p = 0.007) and volume (p = 0.008) of hemorrhagic lesions. Children with normal outcomes or mild disability (n = 30) at 6 to 12 months had, on average, fewer hemorrhagic lesions (p = 0.003) and lower volume (p = 0.003) of lesions than those who were moderately or severely disabled or in a vegetative state. Significant differences also were observed when comparing regional injury to clinical variables. Because susceptibility-weighted imaging is much more sensitive than conventional T2*-weighted gradient-echo sequences in detecting hemorrhagic diffuse axonal injury, more accurate and objective assessment of injury can be obtained early after insult, and may provide better prognostic information regarding duration of coma as well as long-term outcome.
Relationship between cord blood levels of IGF-I and ferritin in healthy term neonates.	We hypothesize that the balance of maternal and fetal insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) concentrations contributes to the regulation of substrate distribution between mother and fetus, and may thus mediate the maintenance of blood ferritin concentration in the fetus. Therefore, the relationship between cord blood IGF-I to ferritin concentration was investigated.
Bioinformatics in proteomics: application, terminology, and pitfalls.	Bioinformatics applies data mining, i.e., modern computer-based statistics, to biomedical data. It leverages on machine learning approaches, such as artificial neural networks, decision trees and clustering algorithms, and is ideally suited for handling huge data amounts. In this article, we review the analysis of mass spectrometry data in proteomics, starting with common pre-processing steps and using single decision trees and decision tree ensembles for classification. Special emphasis is put on the pitfall of overfitting, i.e., of generating too complex single decision trees. Finally, we discuss the pros and cons of the two different decision tree usages.
Correlation between lifetime heterogeneity and kinetics heterogeneity during chlorophyll fluorescence induction in leaves: 1. Mono-frequency phase and modulation analysis reveals a conformational change of a PSII pigment complex during the IP thermal phase.	The relationship between the fluorescence lifetime (tau) and yield (Phi) obtained in phase and modulation fluorometry at 54 MHz during the chlorophyll fluorescence induction in dark-adapted leaves under low actinic light has been investigated. Three typical phases have been identified: (i) linear during the OI photochemical rise, (ii) convex curvature during the subsequent IP thermal rise, and (iii) linear during the PS slow decay. A similar relationship has been obtained in the fluorescence induction for the fluorescence yield measured at 685 nm plotted versus the fluorescence yield measured at 735 nm. A spectrally resolved analysis shows that the curvature of the tau-Phi relationship is not due to chlorophyll fluorescence reabsorption effects. Several other hypotheses are discussed and we conclude that the curvature of the tau-Phi relationship is due to a variable and transitory nonphotochemical quenching. We tentatively propose that this quenching results from a conformational change of a pigment-protein complex of Photosystem II core antenna during the IP phase and could explain both spectral and temporal transitory changes of the fluorescence. A variable blue shift of the 685 nm peak of the fluorescence spectrum during the IP phase has been observed, supporting this hypothesis.
Correlation between lifetime heterogeneity and kinetics heterogeneity during chlorophyll fluorescence induction in leaves: 2. Multi-frequency phase and modulation analysis evidences a loosely connected PSII pigment-protein complex.	We report the first direct decomposition of the fluorescence lifetime heterogeneity during multiphasic fluorescence induction in dark-adapted leaves by multi-frequency phase and modulation fluorometry (PMF). A very fast component, assigned to photosystem I (PSI), was found to be constant in lifetime and yield, whereas the two slow components, which are strongly affected by the closure of the reaction centers by light, were assigned to PSII. Based on a modified "reversible radical pair" kinetic model with three compartments, we showed that a loosely connected pigment complex, which is assumed to be the CP47 complex, plays a specific role with respect to the structure and function of the PSII: (i) it explains the heterogeneity of PSII fluorescence lifetime as a compartmentation of excitation energy in the antenna, (ii) it is the site of a conformational change in the first second of illumination, and (iii) it is involved in the mechanisms of nonphotochemical quenching (NPQ). On the basis of the multi-frequency PMF analysis, we reconciled two apparently antagonistic aspects of chlorophyll a fluorescence in vivo: it is heterogeneous with respect to the kinetic structure (several lifetime components) and homogeneous with respect to average quantities (quasi-linear mean tau-Phi relationship).
Can serum NT-proBNP detect changes of functional capacity in patients with chronic heart failure?	Recently, in a cross-sectional study, a correlation of moderate degree was documented between serum BNP (brain natriuretic peptide) and exercise capacity in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). However, it remains unknown if BNP, which increases in response to high myocardial wall stress, is sufficiently sensitive for changes in exercise capacity during clinical follow-up. To elucidate this, 42 CHF patients were recruited and randomized into a training (T; 58 +/- 10 years; n = 14 NYHA II; n = 5 NYHA III) and a control group (CO; 54 +/- 9, n = 17 NYHA II; n = 6 NYHA III). T carried out 12 weeks of endurance training on a cycle ergometer (4 sessions per week, 45 min duration). Venous blood sampling and cycle ergometry with simultaneous gas exchange measurements were carried out prior to and after the experimental phase. Due to its superior stability during laboratory procedures, NTproBNP was determined instead of BNP. Both proteins are secreted in equimolar amounts and share an identical diagnostic meaning. In both groups, NT-proBNP decreased slightly (T: from 1092 +/- 980 to 805 +/- 724 pg x ml(-1); CO: from 1075 +/- 1068 to 857 +/- 1138 pg x ml(-1); T vs CO: p = 0.65). Anaerobic threshold (AT) as a measure of exercise capacity went up in T (from 0.96 +/- 0.17 to 1.10 +/- 0.22 l x min(-1)) but remained almost constant in CO (pre: 1.02 +/- 0.27; post: 1.00 +/- 0.27 l x min(-1); T vs CO: p < 0.001). The correlation between changes in NT-proBNP and changes in AT remained insignificant (r = 0.02, p = 0.89)-even if only T was considered (r = 0.09, p = 0.72). Improved exercise capacity in CHF patients due to 3 months of endurance training is not reflected in the course of NT-proBNP. These findings are inconsistent with a sufficient sensitivity of this parameter to detect changes in exercise capacity during clinical follow-up. Changes in NT-proBNP beyond its spontaneous variability are more likely to be detected following therapeutical interventions which aim more clearly at the myocardium. In determining alterations of functional capacity ergometric testing cannot be replaced by serial determinations of NT-proBNP.
Unzipping of DNA with correlated base sequence.	We consider force-induced unzipping transition for a heterogeneous DNA model with a correlated base sequence. Both finite-range and long-range correlated situations are considered. It is shown that finite-range correlations increase stability of DNA with respect to the external unzipping force. Due to long-range correlations the number of unzipped base pairs displays two widely different scenarios depending on the details of the base sequence: either there is no unzipping phase transition at all, or the transition is realized via a sequence of jumps with magnitude comparable to the size of the system. Both scenarios are different from the behavior of the average number of unzipped base pairs (non-self-averaging). The results can be relevant for explaining the biological purpose of correlated structures in DNA.
Optimal sampling time selection for parameter estimation in dynamic pathway modeling.	Systems Biology is an emerging research area, which considers mathematical representations of inter- and intra-cellular dynamics. Among the many research problems that have been addressed, dynamic modeling of signal transduction pathways has received increasing attention. The usual approach to represent intra-cellular dynamics are nonlinear, usually ordinary, differential equations. The purpose of the models is to test and generate hypothesis of specific pathways and it is therefore required to estimate model parameters from experimental data. The experiments to generate data are complex and expensive, as a consequence of which the time series available are usually rather short, with few if any replicates. Almost certainly, not all variables one would like to include in a model can be measured. Parameter estimation is therefore an important research problem in Systems Biology and the focus of this paper. In particular, we are interested in optimizing the sampling time selection in order to minimize the variance of the parameter estimation error. With few sampling time points feasible, their selection is of practical importance in experimental design. Finally, the theoretical results are supported with an application.
Dimensional complexity of the EEG in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder.	Recent electrophysiological studies have reported evidence of information processing abnormalities in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The aim of this study is to examine dynamical complexity of the EEG in PTSD patients, which is thought to reflect information processing of the brain. Resting EEG recordings (32,800 data points acquired continuously from 82 s of an EEG record) were obtained in 16 channels of 27 patients with PTSD from a mixed civilian trauma population and 14 healthy subjects. The correlation dimension (D2) of the EEG was used to quantify the complexity of the cortical dynamics underlying the EEG signal. The PTSD patients were found to have lower D2 values than those of the healthy subjects in most channels (Fp1, F8, C4, P4, T3, T4, T5, T6, and O1), indicating that PTSD patients have globally reduced complexity in their EEG waveforms. This study supports the hypotheses that PTSD patients exhibit disturbed cortical information processing, and that non-linear dynamical analysis of the EEG can be a tool for detecting changes in neurodynamics of the brain in PTSD.
Serum concentrations of MCP-1 and RANTES in patients during aortic surgery: the relationship with ischemia-reperfusion.	Surgical trauma is associated with depression of the immune system, which results in a high complication rate following abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and regulated-on-activation normal T cell expressed and secreted (RANTES) protein are important mediators of the immune and inflammatory response. The aim of this study was to determine whether there is any relationship between MCP-1 or RANTES and operative injury and ischemia-reperfusion during AAA surgery in human.
Adverse effects of beta-blocker therapy for patients with heart failure: a quantitative overview of randomized trials.	Beta-blockers substantially improve survival in patients with chronic heart failure (HF) with left ventricular systolic dysfunction, but concerns about cardiovascular adverse effects may deter physicians from prescribing this therapy. We performed an overview of randomized beta-blocker trials in patients with HF to quantify the risks of these adverse effects.
Impact of diabetes and previous myocardial infarction on long-term survival: 25-year mortality follow-up of primary screenees of the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial.	The magnitude of coronary mortality risk associated with diabetes or prior myocardial infarction (MI) is debatable. Modulating effects of age, risk factors, and duration of follow-up may explain discrepancies in previous research. Associations with noncardiovascular mortality are little explored.
The validity and reliability of chinese frontal assessment battery in evaluating executive dysfunction among Chinese patients with small subcortical infarct.	Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB) is a valid and reliable screening test for evaluating executive dysfunction among whites with frontal and subcortical degenerative lesions. We studied the properties of a Chinese version of FAB (CFAB) in evaluating executive dysfunction among Chinese stroke patients with small subcortical infarct.
X-linked hypophosphataemia in South Africa.	To investigate the pattern of clinical presentation in a series of South African subjects with X-linked hypophosphataemia (XLH) with particular reference to ethnic differences in presentation and inheritance, and to determine the perceptions and psychosocial problems associated with the disease.
Applications of digital image correlation to biological tissues.	Optical methods are becoming commonplace in investigations of the physical and mechanical behavior of biological tissues. Digital image correlation (DIC) is a versatile optical method that shows tremendous promise for applications involving biological tissues and biomaterials. We present the fundamentals of DIC with an emphasis on the application to biological materials. An approach for surface preparation is described that facilitates its application to hydrated substrates. Three examples are presented that highlight the use of DIC for biomedical research. The first example describes the use of DIC to study the mechanical behavior of arterial tissues up to 40% elongation. The second example describes an evaluation of the mechanical properties of bovine hoof horn in the dehydrated and fully hydrated states. Uniaxial tension experiments are performed to determine the elastic modulus (E) and Poisson's ratio (nu) of both the arterial and dermal tissues. Spatial variations in the mechanical properties are evident from the full-field characterization of both tissues. Finally, an application of DIC to study the evolution of loosening in cemented total hip replacements is described. The noncontact analysis enables measurement of the relative displacement between the bone/bone cement and bone cement/prosthesis interfaces. Based on the elementary optical arrangement, the simple surface preparation, and the ability to acquire displacement/strain measurements over a large range of deformation, DIC should serve as a valuable tool for biomedical research. Further developments will enable the use of DIC for in vivo applications.
Clinical proteomics and biomarker discovery.	Early detection of disease generally provides much-improved outcomes by a definitive medical procedure or through lifestyle modification along with specific medical management strategies. For serum biomarkers, which are central to the diagnosis of many diseases, to become truly useful sentinels of pathogenesis, their sensitivity and specificity in both early detection and recurrence monitoring must be improved. Currently, the detection and monitoring of disease markers is based on solitary proteins, and this approach is not always reliable. New classes of biomarkers derived from mass spectroscopy analysis of the low molecular weight proteome have shown improved abilities in the early detection of disease and hence in patient risk stratification and outcome. The development of a modular platform technology with sufficient flexibility and design abstractions allowing for concurrent experimentation, test, and refinement will help speed the progress of mass spectroscopy-derived proteomic pattern-based diagnostics from the scientific laboratory to the medical clinic. For acceptance by scientists, physicians, and regulatory personnel, new bioinformatic tools are essential system components for data management, analysis, and intuitive display of these new and complex data. Clinically engineered mass spectroscopy systems are essential for the further development and validation of multiplexed biomarkers that have shown tremendous promise for the early detection of disease.
Detection of differentially expressed proteins in early-stage melanoma patients using SELDI-TOF mass spectrometry.	Tumor progression is a dynamic sequence of events that involves specific protein changes. We hypothesized that Surface Enhanced Laser Desorption/Ionization (SELDI) mass spectrometric analysis of sera from patients with AJCC stage I and II melanoma with negative loco-regional lymph nodes could identify potential melanoma-associated protein biomarkers of disease recurrence. Serum specimens were collected from 49 patients who developed recurrence (n = 25) or remained free of recurrence (n = 24) without evidence of disease following complete resection (AJCC stage I and II). Follow-up was longer than 5 years. Serum proteins were denatured and applied onto two protein chip chemistry surfaces (weak cationic WCX2; metal-binding, IMAC3-Cu). SELDI ProteinChip mass spectrometry was then performed. SELDI data were analyzed, protein peak clustering and classification were performed, and a supervised classification algorithm was employed to classify the dataset. Multiple protein peaks ranging from 3.3 to 30 kDa were identified between patients with recurrence and those without recurrence, and the expression pattern differences of three proteins were used to generate the discriminating classification tree. The biomarkers were expressed with a high degree of reproducibility. In this early characterization study, melanoma recurrence was predicted with a sensitivity of 72% (18/25) and a specificity of 75% (18/24). This novel pilot study revealed three proteins that accurately identified patients who developed recurrence after curative resection of primary melanoma.
Modeling of hemoglobin in dengue fever and dengue hemorrhagic fever using bioelectrical impedance.	This paper describes a model for predicting hemoglobin (Hb) by using bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) in dengue patients in the Hospital Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (HUKM). Bioelectrical impedance measurements were conducted on 83 (47 males and 36 females) serologically confirmed dengue fever (DF) and dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) patients during their hospitalization. The predictive equation for Hb was derived using multivariate analysis. We investigated all the parameters in BIA, patients' symptom and demographic data. In this developed model, four predictors (reactance (XC), sex, weight and vomiting) were found to be the best predictive factors for modeling Hb in dengue patients. However, the model can only explain approximately 42% of the variation in Hb status, thus single frequency bio-impedance stand-alone technique is insufficient to monitor Hb for the DF and DHF patients. Further investigation using multi-frequency BIA is recommended in modeling Hb to achieve the most parsimonious model.
The classification of oesophageal 24 h pH measurements using a Kohonen self-organizing feature map.	Analysis of 24 h oesophageal pH studies can be problematic with many patients asymptomatic during the investigation, despite observations of reflux. The aim of this study was to carry out a cluster analysis of ambulatory pH studies to determine any underlying patterns and classes within the data. The results of 900 24 h pH studies were investigated using the Kohonen self-organizing feature map (SOFM), a neural network that can be used to identify clusters within multidimensional data. The clinical features were presented to the network and the main classes identified. The SOFM-based analysis showed that patients clinically assessed as having symptomatic reflux during the study could be described by four major classifications. The results also showed that the probability of identifying a correlation between symptoms and reflux during an investigation varies from 0.49 to 0.78 for the classes identified. The developed network may be a useful tool in the classification of pH data. The cluster-based technique may offer an alternative to standard statistical techniques for high-dimensional gastrointestinal data and form the basis of an expert system for the automated analysis of pH data.
Hemoglobin levels in Qinghai-Tibet: different effects of gender for Tibetans vs. Han.	The Tibetan population, long a resident on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, has lower hemoglobin concentrations than Han Chinese migrants, but it is incompletely known how gender affects the hemoglobin concentrations in the two populations at various altitudes. Measurements of hemoglobin concentration were obtained in 5,887 healthy male and female Tibetan and Han residents aged 5-60 yr, at altitudes of 2,664, 3,813, 4,525, and 5,200 m. Multiple regression equations showed the beta-coefficients for altitude and for age were higher (P < 0.05) in Han men than in Tibetan men and in Han women than in Tibetan women. Analysis indicated a significant three-way interaction between altitude, gender, and ethnicity (chi2 = 3.72, P = 0.05). With increasing altitude, men progressively had more hemoglobin than women in the Han, but not the Tibetan, population. Above 2,664 m, this gender-related difference in hemoglobin concentration increased from childhood to young adulthood more in Han than in Tibetans. We suggest that the Han-Tibetan ethnic difference in the effect of altitude on hemoglobin concentration depends to a large extent on gender.
PCOAT: positional correlation analysis using multiple methods.	PCOAT (Positional COrrelation Analysis Tool) is a program to perform positional correlation analysis for protein multiple sequence alignment in order to identify structurally or functionally important interactions between positions in a protein family. We implement different statistical methods to detect highly correlated position pairs, amino acid pairs, individual positions and networks of correlated positions, and utilize multiple sequence weighting and sampling methods to eliminate background correlations caused by phylogeny and stochastic events. Our program runs relatively fast and is suitable for analyzing alignments containing large number of sequences.
Galectin-3, fibronectin-1, CITED-1, HBME1 and cytokeratin-19 immunohistochemistry is useful for the differential diagnosis of thyroid tumors.	The diagnosis of thyroid tumors is critical for clinical management; however, tumors with follicular architecture often present problems. We evaluated the diagnostic use of the protein expression of four genes that were found to be upregulated in papillary thyroid carcinoma compared to normal thyroid (LGALS3, FN1, CITED1 and KRT19), and of the mesothelial cell surface protein recognized by monoclonal antibody HBME1 in thyroid tumors. Tissues from 85 carcinomas (67 papillary, six follicular, eight Hürthle cell and four anaplastic) and 21 adenomas were evaluated by immunohistochemistry for the expression of these gene protein products, for example, galectin-3 (GAL3), fibronectin-1 (FN1), CITED1, cytokeratin-19 (CK19) and HBME1. Non-neoplastic thyroids (29 adenomatous and 14 thyrotoxic hyperplasia, and 59 normal) were also studied. The expression of all five proteins was significantly associated with malignancy, and highly specific (> or = 90%) for carcinoma compared to adenoma. GAL3, FN1 and/or HBME1 expression was seen in 100% of carcinomas (85/85) and in 24% of adenomas (5/21). Coexpression of multiple proteins was seen in 95% of carcinomas and only 5% of adenomas (P<0.0001). Coexpression of FN1 and GAL3 (FN1+ GAL3+, 70/85) or FN1 and HBME1 (FN1+ HBME1+, 53/85) was restricted to carcinomas, while their concurrent absence (FN1- GAL3- or FN1- HBME1-, 18/21 adenoma) was highly specific (96%) for benign lesions. Among non-neoplastic thyroids, adenomatous hyperplasia frequently expressed GAL3 (n=16), CK19 (n=9) and CITED1 (n=7), but the expression was predominantly focal in contrast to the diffuse expression in carcinomas. An immunohistochemical panel consisting of GAL3, FN1 and HBME1 may be useful in the diagnosis of follicular cell-derived thyroid tumors.
Analysis of gene expression profiles of hepatocellular carcinomas with regard to 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake pattern on positron emission tomography.	18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake on positron emission tomography (PET) scan has been found to reflect tumour aggressiveness and prognosis in various types of cancer. In this study, the gene expression profiles of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) were evaluated to determine whether HCCs with high 18F-FDG uptake have more aggressive biological potential than those with low uptake.
Discovery of meaningful associations in genomic data using partial correlation coefficients.	A major challenge of systems biology is to infer biochemical interactions from large-scale observations, such as transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics. We propose to use a partial correlation analysis to construct approximate Undirected Dependency Graphs from such large-scale biochemical data. This approach enables a distinction between direct and indirect interactions of biochemical compounds, thereby inferring the underlying network topology.
Relation between wall thickening on gated perfusion SPECT and functional recovery after coronary revascularization in patients with previous myocardial infarction.	This study aimed to evaluate whether wall thickening analysis by gated perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is useful in predicting functional recovery after revascularization.
Brain perfusion abnormalities in patients with euthyroid autoimmune thyroiditis.	Brain perfusion abnormalities have recently been demonstrated by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in rare cases of severe Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) encephalopathy; moreover, some degree of subtle central nervous system (CNS) involvement has been hypothesised in HT, but no direct evidence has been provided so far. The aim of this study was to assess cortical brain perfusion in patients with euthyroid HT without any clinical evidence of CNS involvement by means of 99mTc-ECD brain SPECT. Sixteen adult patients with HT entered this study following informed consent.
Personality profile and psychic deviations in offenders examined for psychiatric-forensic appraisal]	Personality is one factor within the multidimensional structure of conditions involved in the development of an offender. The aim of this study is to contribute to a better accuracy of discrimination of risk factors and prediction of delinquent behaviour. For psychiatric-forensic opinions, social, forensic and psychiatric history as well as type of the last offence and its course for adjudged delinquents (n=128) was recorded. For determining personality structure, the "Freiburger Personlichkeitsinventar" (FPI-R) and the "Fragebogen zur Erfassung von Aggressivitatsfaktoren" (FAF) was used. Psychiatric diagnosis was based on criteria of ICD-10. Using a hierarchical cluster analysis including the dimensions of the FPI-R, three personality profiles could be separated. First offenders and re-offenders could be discriminated by family environment and age at the first delict. The importance of classification for risk estimation of delinquent behaviour and its significance for providing forensic opinions is discussed.
The astroglial protein S100B and visually evoked event-related potentials before and after antidepressant treatment.	S100B is an astrocytic, calcium-binding protein which in nanomolar concentrations has neuroprotective and regenerating effects on neurons and glial cells. Increased levels have been shown to be positively correlated with therapeutic response in major depression. Event-related potentials (ERP) have been reported to be impaired in depressed patients.
Studies on the diagnostic accuracy of lymphography (author's transl)]	Contradictory reports in the literature on the reliability of lymphography stimulated the authors to test the diagnostic accuracy, employing methods which are approximately analogous to practice, using carcinoma of the cervix as the model on which the study was carried out. Using 21 observers it was found that there was no correlation between their experience and on-target accuracy of the diagnosis. Good observers obtained an accuracy of 85% with good proportions between sensitivity in the recognition of detail, specificity and readiness to arrive at a decision on the basis of discriminatory ability. With the help of the concept of the ROC curves, the position taken up by the observers in respect of diagnostic decisions, and a complex manner of assessing the various characteristic factors determining diagnostic accuracy, are demonstrated. This form of test, which permits manipulation of different variants of diagnosis, is recommended, among other things, for performance control at the end of training and continuing education courses in other fields of x-ray diagnosis as well.
Computational protein design is a challenge for implicit solvation models.	Increasingly complex schemes for representing solvent effects in an implicit fashion are being used in computational analyses of biological macromolecules. These schemes speed up the calculations by orders of magnitude and are assumed to compromise little on essential features of the solvation phenomenon. In this work we examine this assumption. Five implicit solvation models, a surface area-based empirical model, two models that approximate the generalized Born treatment and a finite difference Poisson-Boltzmann method are challenged in situations differing from those where these models were calibrated. These situations are encountered in automatic protein design procedures, whose job is to select sequences, which stabilize a given protein 3D structure, from a large number of alternatives. To this end we evaluate the energetic cost of burying amino acids in thousands of environments with different solvent exposures belonging, respectively, to decoys built with random sequences and to native protein crystal structures. In addition we perform actual sequence design calculations. Except for the crudest surface area-based procedure, all the tested models tend to favor the burial of polar amino acids in the protein interior over nonpolar ones, a behavior that leads to poor performance in protein design calculations. We show, on the other hand, that three of the examined models are nonetheless capable of discriminating between the native fold and many nonnative alternatives, a test commonly used to validate force fields. It is concluded that protein design is a particularly challenging test for implicit solvation models because it requires accurate estimates of the solvation contribution of individual residues. This contrasts with native recognition, which depends less on solvation and more on other nonbonded contributions.
Changes in cardiovascular function during the sleep onset period in young adults.	Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) are influenced by the sleep-wake cycle, with relatively abrupt falls occurring in association with sleep onset (SO). However, the pattern and rate of fall in BP and HR during SO and the processes that contribute to the fall in these variables have not been fully identified. Continuous BP and HR recordings were collected beginning 1 h before lights out (LO) until the end of the first non-rapid eye movement sleep period in 21 young, healthy participants maintained in a supine position. Five consecutive phases were defined: 1) the 30 min of wakefulness before LO; 2) LO to stage 1 sleep; 3) stage 1 to stage 2 sleep; 4) stage 2 sleep to the last microarousal before stable sleep; and 5) the first 30 min of undisturbed stable sleep. The data were analyzed on a beat-by-beat basis and reported as 2-min periods for phases 1 and 5 and 10% epochs for phases 2, 3, and 4 (as participants had variable time periods in these phases). The level of baroreflex (BR) activity was assessed by the sequence technique and an autoregressive multivariate model. Furthermore, during phases 3 and 4, the BP and HR responses to arousal from sleep were determined. There were substantial falls in BP and HR after LO before the initial onset of theta;-activity (phase 3) and again after the onset of stable sleep after the cessation of spontaneous arousals. During phases 3 and 4 when there were repeated arousals from sleep, the fall in both variables was retarded. Furthermore, both the rate and magnitude of the fall in BP were negatively associated with the number of arousals during phases 3 and 4. There was a small increase in the sensitivity of the BR and indirect evidence of a substantial fall in its set point.
Dual energy X ray absorptiometry of ex vivo HcB/Dem mouse long bones: left are denser than right.	Dual energy X ray absorptiometry (DXA) has become a popular analytical technique in mice and other small animals. Comparative study of bone properties at different anatomical sites is an active area of study in model organisms. Such investigations require that site-specific data be generated and interpreted. There are no published data addressing the degree to which contralateral mouse bones resemble each other in the absence of an experimental intervention, nor are there data addressing the correlation of bone densitometry measurements between anatomically distant sites. To address these gaps in our knowledge, we used DXA to compare excised mouse femora and humeri. At the population level, left bones were slightly but significantly denser than right bones, with an overall adjusted bone mineral density (BMD) difference of 0.7 +/- 0.3 and 0.5 +/- 0.2 mg/cm2 at the femur and humerus, respectively. At the level of bone pairs from a single animal, absolute adjusted BMD disparities between the right and left sides were 2.3 +/- 1.9 mg/cm2 at the femur and 1.7 +/- 1.4 mg/cm2 at the humerus. Correlation coefficients between left and right sides were 0.78 for adjusted BMD at both sites. The correlation coefficient between side-averaged femoral and humeral BMD was 0.81, but ranged between 0.70 and 0.75 when limited to ipsilateral or contralateral femur-humerus pairs. Our findings suggest the desirability of randomizing limbs for treatment in studies using contralateral limb controls. These observations may represent the densitometric manifestation of behavioral and neuroanatomical lateralization in laboratory mice.
Metabolites from cerebrospinal fluid in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage correlate with vasospasm and clinical outcome: a pattern-recognition 1H NMR study.	Following subarachnoid haemorrhage the most significant complication is sustained cerebral vascular contraction (vasospasm), which may result in terminal brain damage from cerebral infarction. Despite this, the biochemical cause of vasospasm remains poorly understood. In this study, the global high-concentration metabolite composition of CSF has been correlated with patient outcome after subarachnoid haemorrhage using multivariate statistics and 1H NMR spectroscopy. In total, 16 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) were compared with 16 control patients who required a procedure where CSF was obtained but did not have aSAH. Multivariate statistics readily distinguished the aSAH group from the heterogeneous control group, even when only those controls with blood contamination in the CSF were used. Using principal components analysis and orthogonal signal correction, vasospasm was correlated to the concentrations of lactate, glucose and glutamine. These pattern recognition models of the NMR data also predicted Glasgow Coma Score (54% within +/- 1 of the actual score on a scale of 1-15 for the whole patient group), Hunt and Hess SAH severity score (88% within +/- 1 of the actual score on a scale of 1-5 for the aSAH group) and cognitive outcome scores (78% within +/- 3 of the actual score on a 100% scale for the whole patient group). Thus, the approach allowed the prediction of outcome as well as confirming the presence of aSAH.
Scyllo-inositol in normal aging human brain: 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy study at 4 Tesla.	The scyllo-inositol and myo-inositol concentrations of 24 normal human subjects were measured in vivo using 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 4 T. Single-voxel short-echo (TE = 15 ms) metabolite spectra were collected from the white matter region of the corona radiata. Test-retest studies performed on 10 normal subjects demonstrated coefficient of variation for scyllo-inositol measurement of 37%, compared with 6% for N-acetyl aspartate. Comparisons between old and young subjects showed higher concentration of scyllo-inositol and myo-inositol in older subjects and a trend for a correlation between scyllo-inositol and myo-inositol levels across subjects.
Passive movements of the head do not abolish anticipatory firing properties of head direction cells.	Neurons in the anterior dorsal thalamic nucleus (ADN) of the rat selectively discharge in relation to the animal's head direction (HD) in the horizontal plane. Temporal analyses of cell firing properties reveal that their discharge is optimally correlated with the animal's future directional heading by approximately 24 ms. Among the hypotheses proposed to explain this property is that ADN HD cells are informed of future head movement via motor efference copy signals. One prediction of this hypothesis is that when the rat's head is moved passively, the anticipatory time interval (ATI) will be attenuated because the motor efference signal reflects only the active contribution to the movement. The present study tested this hypothesis by loosely restraining the animal and passively rotating it through the cell's preferred direction. Contrary to our prediction, we found that ATI values did not decrease during passive movement but in fact increased significantly. HD cells in the postsubiculum did not show the same effect, suggesting independence between the two sites with respect to anticipatory firing. We conclude that it is unlikely that a motor efference copy signal alone is responsible for generating anticipatory firing in ADN HD cells.
Kinin peptides in human trapezius muscle during sustained isometric contraction and their relation to pain.	To determine the muscular concentration of bradykinin and kallidin during static contraction, microdialysis probes were implanted bilaterally in the trapezius muscles of healthy women. Three hours after probe implantation, 200 microM of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalaprilat were added to the perfusion solution in one of the sides for 30 min. Thirty minutes later, the subjects performed a sustained bilateral shoulder abduction at 10% of the maximal voluntary contraction until exhaustion. This protocol was repeated twice, with an interval of at least 17 days. High intersession repeatability was observed in the concentration of bradykinin but not of kallidin. Enalaprilat induced a significant increase in bradykinin levels in the dialysate, without affecting kallidin levels. The sustained contraction induced a significant increase in dialysate levels of both kinin peptides. The contraction also induced a significant increase in pain ratings, as measured by a visual analog scale. During contraction, positive correlations were found between pain ratings and levels of kinin peptides in dialysate, predominantly in the side previously perfused with enalaprilat. Subjects with the higher pain ratings also showed larger increases in kinin peptides in the side previously perfused with enalaprilat. The present results show that both plasma and tissue kinin-kallikrein are activated during muscle contraction, but that their metabolic pathways are differently regulated during rest and contraction, because they showed a different response to ACE inhibition. They also indicate that intramuscular kinin peptides levels, and ACE activity, may contribute to muscle pain.
Diet and the frequency of the alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase Pro11Leu polymorphism in different human populations.	The intermediary metabolic enzyme alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT) contains a Pro11Leu polymorphism that decreases its catalytic activity by a factor of three and causes a small proportion to be mistargeted from its normal intracellular location in the peroxisomes to the mitochondria. These changes are predicted to have significant effects on the synthesis and excretion of the metabolic end-product oxalate and the deposition of insoluble calcium oxalate in the kidney and urinary tract. Based on the evolution of AGT targeting in mammals, we have previously hypothesised that this polymorphism would be advantageous for individuals who have a meat-rich diet, but disadvantageous for those who do not. If true, the frequency distribution of Pro11Leu in different extant human populations should have been shaped by their dietary history so that it should be more common in populations with predominantly meat-eating ancestral diets than it is in populations in which the ancestral diets were predominantly vegetarian. In the present study, we have determined frequency of Pro11Leu in 11 different human populations with divergent ancestral dietary lifestyles. We show that the Pro11Leu allelic frequency varies widely from 27.9% in the Saami, a population with a very meat-rich ancestral diet, to 2.3% in Chinese, who are likely to have had a more mixed ancestral diet. FST analysis shows that the differences in Pro11Leu frequency between some populations (particularly Saami vs Chinese) was very high when compared with neutral loci, suggesting that its frequency might have been shaped by dietary selection pressure.
Sympathetic neural regulation in endurance-trained humans: fitness vs. fatness.	We tested the hypothesis that muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) would be higher in endurance-trained (ET) compared with sedentary (Sed) men with similar levels of total body and abdominal adiposity. We further hypothesized that sympathetic baroreflex gain would be augmented in ET compared with Sed men independent of the level of adiposity. To address this, we measured MSNA (via microneurography), sympathetic and vagal baroreflex responses (the modified Oxford technique), body composition (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), and waist circumference (Gulick tape) in Sed (n = 22) and ET men (n = 8). The ET men were also compared with a subgroup of Sed men (n = 6) with similar levels of total body and abdominal adiposity. Basal MSNA was greater in the ET compared with Sed men with similar levels of total body and abdominal adiposity (28 +/- 2.0 vs. 21 +/- 2.0 bursts/min; P < 0.05) but similar to the larger group of Sed men (n = 22) with higher total body and abdominal adiposity (vs. 26 +/- 3 bursts/min; P > 0.05). In contrast to our hypothesis, sympathetic baroreflex gain was lower in the ET compared with Sed men (-6.4 +/- 0.8 vs. -8.4 +/- 0.4 arbitrary integrative units x beat(-1) x mmHg(-1); P < 0.05) regardless of the level of adiposity. Taken together, the results of the present study suggest that MSNA is higher in ET compared with Sed men with similar levels of total body and abdominal adiposity. In addition, sympathetic baroreflex gain is lower in ET compared with Sed men. That sympathetic baroreflex gain was lower in ET compared with Sed men regardless of the level of adiposity suggests an influence of the ET state per se.
New bone formation by extracorporeal shock waves. Dependence of induction on energy flux density]	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that shock waves can induce new bone formation even without cortical fractures and periosteal detachment as suggested in the literature.
Expression and activity of steroid aldoketoreductases 1C in omental adipose tissue are positive correlates of adiposity in women.	We examined expression and activity of steroid aldoketoreductase (AKR) 1C enzymes in adipose tissue in women. AKR1C1 (20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; 20alpha-HSD), AKR1C2 (3alpha-HSD-3), and AKR1C3 (17beta-HSD-5) are involved mainly in conversion of progesterone to 20alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and inactivation of dihydrotestosterone to 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17beta-diol. Abdominal subcutaneous and omental adipose tissue biopsies were obtained during abdominal hysterectomies in seven women with low visceral adipose tissue (VAT) area and seven age- and total body fat mass-matched women with visceral obesity. Women with elevated VAT areas were characterized by significantly higher omental adipose tissue 20alpha-HSD and 3alpha-HSD-3 mRNA abundance compared with women with low VAT accumulations (1.4- and 1.6-fold differences, respectively; P < 0.05). Omental and subcutaneous adipose tissue 3alpha-HSD activities were significantly higher in women with high vs. low VAT areas (P < 0.05 for both comparisons). Total and visceral adiposities were positively associated with omental 20alpha-HSD mRNA level (r = 0.75, P < 0.003 for fat mass; r = 0.57, P < 0.04 for VAT area) and omental 3alpha-HSD-3 mRNA level (r = 0.68, P < 0.01 for fat mass; r = 0.74, P < 0.003 for VAT area). Enzyme activities in both depots were also positively correlated with adiposity measures. Omental adipose tissue enzyme expression and activity were positively associated with omental adipocyte size and LPL activity. In conclusion, mRNA abundance and activity of AKR1C enzymes in abdominal adipose tissue compartments are positive correlates of adiposity in women. Increased progesterone and/or dihydrotestosterone reduction in abdominal adipose tissue may impact locally on fat cell metabolism.
A ring of negative charges in the intracellular vestibule of Kir2.1 channel modulates K+ permeation.	The glutamate at site 224 of a Kir2.1 channel plays an important role in K+ permeation. The single-channel inward current flickers with reduced conductance in an E224G mutant. We show that open-channel fluctuations can also be observed in E224C, E224K, and E224Q mutants. Yet, open-channel fluctuations were not observed in either the wild-type or an E224D mutant. Introducing a negatively charged methanethiosulfonate reagent to the E224C mutant irreversibly increased channel conductance and eliminated open-channel fluctuations. These results suggest that although the negatively charged residue 224 is located at the internal vestibule, it is important for smooth inward K+ conduction. We identified a substate in the E224G mutant and showed that open-channel fluctuations are mainly attributed to rapid transitions between the substate and the main state. Also, we characterized the voltage- and ion-dependence of the substate kinetics. The open-channel fluctuations decreased in internal NH4+ or Tl+ as compared to internal K+. These results suggest that NH4+ and Tl+ gate the E224G mutant in a more stable state. Based on an ion-conduction model, we propose that the appearance of the substate in the E224G mutant is due to changes of ion gating in association with variations of ion-ion interaction in the permeation pathway.
Molecular evidence supporting the portal theory: a causative link between visceral adiposity and hepatic insulin resistance.	The mechanism by which increased central adiposity causes hepatic insulin resistance is unclear. The "portal hypothesis" implicates increased lipolytic activity in the visceral fat and therefore increased delivery of free fatty acids (FFA) to the liver, ultimately leading to liver insulin resistance. To test the portal hypothesis at the transcriptional level, we studied expression of several genes involved in glucose and lipid metabolism in the fat-fed dog model with visceral adiposity vs. controls (n = 6). Tissue samples were obtained from dogs after 12 wk of either moderate fat (42% calories from fat; n = 6) or control diet (35% calories from fat). Northern blot analysis revealed an increase in the ratio of visceral to subcutaneous (v/s ratio) mRNA expression of both lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma). In addition, the ratio for sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor-1 (SREBP-1) tended to be higher in fat-fed dogs, suggesting enhanced lipid accumulation in the visceral fat depot. The v/s ratio of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) increased significantly, implicating a higher rate of lipolysis in visceral adipose despite hyperinsulinemia in obese dogs. In fat-fed dogs, liver SREBP-1 expression was increased significantly, with a tendency for increased fatty acid-binding protein (FABP) expression. In addition, glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) increased significantly, consistent with enhanced gluconeogenesis. Liver triglyceride content was elevated 45% in fat-fed animals vs. controls. Moreover, insulin receptor binding was 50% lower in fat-fed dogs. Increased gene expression promoting lipid accumulation and lipolysis in visceral fat, as well as elevated rate-limiting gluconeogenic enzyme expression in the liver, is consistent with the portal theory. Further studies will need to be performed to determine whether FFA are involved directly in this pathway and whether other signals (either humoral and/or neural) may contribute to the development of hepatic insulin resistance observed with visceral obesity.
Ipsilateral motor cortex activity during unimanual hand movements relates to task complexity.	Functional imaging studies have revealed recruitment of ipsilateral motor areas during the production of sequential unimanual finger movements. This phenomenon is more prominent in the left hemisphere during left-hand movements than in the right hemisphere during right-hand movements. Here we investigate whether this lateralization pattern is related specifically to the sequential structure of the unimanual action or generalizes to other complex movements. Using event-related fMRI, we measured activation changes in the motor cortex during three types of unimanual movements: repetitions of a sequence of movements with multiple fingers, repetitive "chords" composed of three simultaneous key presses, and simple repetitive tapping movements with a single finger. During sequence and chord movements, strong ipsilateral activation was observed and was especially pronounced in the left hemisphere during left-hand movements. This pattern was evident for both right-handed and, to a lesser degree, left-handed individuals. Ipsilateral activation was less pronounced in the tapping condition. The site of ipsilateral activation was shifted laterally, ventrally, and anteriorly with respect to that observed during contralateral movements and the time course of activation implied a role in the execution rather than planning of the movement. A control experiment revealed that strong ipsilateral activity in left motor cortex is specific to complex movements and does not depend on the number of required muscles. These findings indicate a prominent role of left hemisphere in the execution of complex movements independent of the sequential nature of the task.
Interdependence of N-acetyl aspartate and high-energy phosphates in healthy human brain.	Because cellular and extract data have suggested that N-acetylaspartate (NAA) reflects neuronal mitochondrial function, we evaluated the quantitative relationship between NAA, high-energy phosphates, and ADP levels in the hippocampus and occipital lobe of 15 healthy volunteers. The ADP levels are calculated using the creatine kinase equilibrium and quantified (31)P and total creatine measurements. Using high-field quantitative MR spectroscopic imaging, we find that NAA and ADP concentrations in the hippocampal body are 9.7 +/- 1.5mM and 35 +/- 8microM, respectively. In the occipital lobe, NAA and ADP are 11.9 +/- 1.9mM and 32 +/- 12microM, respectively. There is a statistically significant positive correlation between NAA and ADP, with R = +0.80, p < 2 x 10(-7)in the hippocampal body. In an adjacent hippocampal NAA voxel, the correlation between NAA and ADP had a R = +0.62, p < 3 x 10(-4), whereas, in the occipital lobe, R = +0.67, p < 5 x 10(-5). There was no significant relationship NAA and either ATP or phosphocreatine. This positive relationship of NAA with ADP suggests a directional process wherein energetics may modulate mitochondrial function.
Regional differences in the manifestation of gastrointestinal motor disorders in type 1 diabetic patients with autonomic neuropathy.	The aim of this work was to establish the prevalence and severity of different gastrointestinal symptoms and their relationships to esophageal, gastric and recto-anal motor disturbances by manometry in patients with Type 1 diabetes mellitus and autonomic neuropathy.
The role of alcohol and/or benzodiazepines in occupational accidents compared to accidents due to other causes]	All patients who were admitted within one year to the Department of Traumatology of the Innsbruck University Hospital as a result of an accident were included in this epidemiological study: a total of 1611 patients. 18.9% (n = 304) of these patients were injured as a result of a work-related accident and the remaining 81.2% (n = 1307) were involved in accidents due to other causes. Within the group of patients involved in work-related accidents, alcohol consumption was more frequent in males (13.3%) than in females (1.8%) (p = 0.016) and clearly lower than in patients injured by accidents due to other causes. In work--related accidents we found a correlation between the educational standard of patients and the frequency of alcohol consumption. The mean blood alcohol concentration was lower in patients involved in work-related accidents (0.76 +/- 0.58 g/l) compared to other injuries (1.63 g/l +/- 0.74 g/l). No correlations were found concerning benzodiazepine use and demographic variables and all measured benzodiazepine plasma levels were within the therapeutic range.
An extension to the metabolic control theory taking into account correlations between enzyme concentrations.	The classical metabolic control theory [Kacser, H. & Burns, J.A. (1973) Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol.27, 65-104; Heinrich, R. & Rapoport, T. (1974) Eur. J. Biochem.42, 89-95.] does not take into account experimental evidence for correlations between enzyme concentrations in the cell. We investigated the implications of two causes of linear correlations: competition between enzymes, which is a mere physical adaptation of the cell to the limitation of resources and space, and regulatory correlations, which result from the existence of regulatory networks. These correlations generate redistribution of enzyme concentrations when the concentration of an enzyme varies; this may dramatically alter the flux and metabolite concentration curves. In particular, negative correlations cause the flux to have a maximum value for a defined distribution of enzyme concentrations. Redistribution coefficients of enzyme concentrations allowed us to calculate the 'combined response coefficient' that quantifies the response of flux or metabolite concentration to a perturbation of enzyme concentration.
Regulation of phospholipid biosynthesis by phosphatidylinositol transfer protein Sec14p and its homologues. A critical role for phosphatidic acid.	Transcription of yeast phospholipid biosynthesis structural genes, which contain an inositol-sensitive upstream activating sequence in their promoters, responds to the availability of the soluble precursors inositol and choline and to changes in phospholipid metabolism. The INO1 gene is deregulated (derepressed when inositol is present) under the conditions of increased phosphatidylcholine (PtdCho) turnover, as occurs in the sec14Delta cki1Delta strain (SEC14 encodes the major yeast phosphatidylinositol transfer protein; CKI1 encodes choline kinase of the cytidine diphosphate choline pathway of PtdCho biosynthesis). Five proteins (Sfhp) share sequence homology with phosphatidylinositol transfer protein Sec14p. Two (Sfh2p and Sfh4p), when overexpressed largely complement the otherwise essential Sec14p requirement concerning growth and secretion. In this study, we analysed the ability of Sec14 homologues to correct the defect in regulation of phospholipid biosynthesis resulting from defective or missing Sec14p. We also analysed how PtdCho turnover relates to the transcriptional regulation of phospholipid biosynthesis. The results show that (a) none of the Sec14 homologues was able to substitute for Sec14p in its regulatory aspects of phospholipid biosynthesis, (b) removal of phospholipase D activity corrected the aberrant INO1 gene regulation in yeast strains with otherwise high PtdCho turnover, and (c) increased steady-state phosphatidic acid levels correlated with derepressed levels of the INO1 gene. Overall, the results support the model in which high phosphatidic acid levels lead to derepression of the genes of phospholipid biosynthesis [Henry, S.A. & Patton-Vogt, J.L. (1998) Prog. Nucleic Acid Res. Mol. Biol.61, 133-179].
Bioinformatics: harvesting information for plant and crop science.	Bioinformatics is an integral aspect of plant and crop science research. Developments in data management and analytical software are reviewed with an emphasis on applications in functional genomics. This includes information resources for Arabidopsis and crop species, and tools available for analysis and visualisation of comparative genomic data. Approaches used to explore relationships between plant genes and expressed sequences are compared, including use of ontologies. The impact of bioinformatics in forward and reverse genetics is described, together with the potential from data mining. The role of bioinformatics is explored in the wider context of plant and crop science.
Comparative evaluation of simple indices of insulin resistance.	Various surrogate methods for the quantification of insulin sensitivity have been proposed. A comparative evaluation is lacking and is relevant for the standardization of investigative methods and comparability of results. The aims of the study were to perform a comparative validation of fasting insulin, homeostasis model assessment (HOMA), Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI), and revised-QUICKI (R-QUICKI) against minimal model derived estimates of insulin sensitivity (SI(MM)) in nondiabetic people and to carry out a comparative evaluation of the ability of these indices as means for the identification of individuals with the metabolic syndrome (MS) on a population basis. We used 2 data sets defined as "validation sample" and "prevalence sample". Validation sample: a total of 162 healthy men and women aged 30 to 65 years were studied by frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIVGTT). SI(MM) was calculated with the Minmod program. Prevalence sample: a total of 2,731 nondiabetic men and women aged 35 to 65 years were studied. In both samples, anthropometry, blood pressure, fasting glucose, insulin, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and free fatty acid (FFA) were measured. HOMA, QUICKI, and R-QUICKI were calculated. The MS was defined according to the Adult Treatment Panel III. Validation sample: insulin, HOMA, QUICKI, and R-QUICKI significantly correlated with SI(MM) (r = -0,53, -0.52, 0.41, 0.33; all P < .001). The finding was confirmed in obese (body mass index [BMI] > or =25 kg/m(2)), but in the normal weight, the correlation coefficient for QUICKI was significantly smaller than for the other indices. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis performed with SI(MM) below or above the lowest 25th percentile (ie, insulin resistance yes, no) as the outcome variable and each of the 4 indices as the test variable showed no significant differences in the areas under the curve. Prevalence sample: prevalence of the MS progressively increased across quartiles of insulin resistance as evaluated by any of the 4 indices, with no significant differences between them. The novel indices QUICKI and R-QUICKI do not perform better than HOMA and fasting insulin as surrogate measures of insulin resistance or means for the identification of people with MS in the general population.
Relationship of intracellular magnesium of cord blood platelets to birth weight.	Magnesium (Mg(2+)) has an important role in insulin action, and insulin stimulates Mg(2+) uptake in insulin-sensitive tissues. Impaired biologic responses to insulin are referred to as insulin resistance. Diabetic patients and obese subjects are reported to have intracellular magnesium ([Mg(2+)](i)) deficiency. Many epidemiologic studies have disclosed that restricted fetal growth has been associated with increased risk of insulin resistance in adult life. We studied the relationship of [Mg(2+)](i) in cord blood platelets to birth weight. The subjects were 19 infants who were small for gestational age (SGA) and 45 who were appropriate for gestational age (AGA). By using a fluorescent probe, mag-fura-2, we examined the basal and insulin-stimulated [Mg(2+)](i) of platelets in the cord blood. Cord plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)and leptin levels were determined with the use of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Birth weight was correlated with cord plasma IGF-1 (P < .001) and leptin (P < .005). Mean basal [Mg(2+)](i), but not plasma Mg(2+), was lower in the SGA than in the AGA group (291 +/- 149 micromol/L v 468 +/- 132 micromol/L, P < .001). The basal [Mg(2+)](i) was significantly correlated with the birth weight (P < .001) as well as birth length (P < .001). At 60 seconds after stimulation with insulin, there was no significant difference in stimulated [Mg(2+)](i) between the SGA and AGA groups. Although the SGA group had low [Mg(2+)](i), the platelets had good potentiality to compensate for low [Mg(2+)](i). [Mg(2+)](i) reflects the extent of fetal growth. Decreased [Mg(2+)](i) in SGA might underlie the initial pathophysiologic events leading to insulin resistance.
Consciousness monitoring using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) during high +Gz exposures.	The relationship between human consciousness and oxygen saturation (rSO(2)) in cerebral tissue under high +Gz stress was non-invasively monitored by near-infrared multiple wavelength spectroscopy (NIRS). We studied the drop in rSO(2) levels in human subjects during exposure to various head-to-foot acceleration (+Gz) profiles. These profiles included sustained +Gz plateaus and repeated short duration +Gz pulses of varying duration. The end point in this study was +Gz-induced loss of consciousness (G-LOC). The rSO(2) levels under normal (asymptomatic), almost loss of consciousness (A-LOC) and G-LOC conditions were recorded. Correlations among decrease in rSO(2), +Gz pulse duration, +Gz stress level and incapacitation time (ICAP) after G-LOC were also investigated. It was found that once rSO(2) fell to a certain level, G-LOC occurred. This threshold was repeatable and independent of the +Gz level or duration. It was also observed that the total ICAP after G-LOC was dependent on the length of time that rSO(2) remained below the G-LOC threshold level, i.e. the longer the rSO(2) level remained below the G-LOC induction level, the longer the subject remained unconscious. These results may prove to be useful in designing closed loop control systems for personal protective gear for pilots of high performance aircraft.
Mitochondria optical parameters are dependent on their energy state: a new electrooptical effect?	The membrane potential of mitochondria determines, to a large extent, their functional state and the response to the changing conditions of the environment. A correlation was found between the changes in the optical characteristics of isolated mitochondria and the composition of the incubation medium, which determines the potential of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The measurements performed by the method of coherent phase microscopy made it possible to establish a linear dependence of the phase height on the value of the membrane potential and to calculate the electrooptical constant, K approximately equal to (3-4) x 10(-7) m/V.
Accelerated dynamic Fourier velocity encoding by exploiting velocity-spatio-temporal correlations.	To describe how the information content in a Fourier velocity encoding (FVE) scan can be transformed into a very sparse representation and to develop a method that exploits the compactness of the data to significantly accelerate the acquisition.
Determining the quality of rater judgements using intraclass correlation, and enhancing rater judgements]	In clinical practice ratings by physicians and therapists are among the most frequently used assessment procedures. It is shown, which statistical measures should be used to assess the reliability of such ratings. Additionally, potential causes of insufficient reliability are presented. Improvement of rating quality may be achieved by rater training, which is based on an analysis of rating errors.
Contextual processing of structured data by recursive cascade correlation.	This paper propose a first approach to deal with contextual information in structured domains by recursive neural networks. The proposed model, i.e., contextual recursive cascade correlation (CRCC), a generalization of the recursive cascade correlation (RCC) model, is able to partially remove the causality assumption by exploiting contextual information stored in frozen units. We formally characterize the properties of CRCC showing that it is able to compute contextual transductions and also some causal supersource transductions that RCC cannot compute. Experimental results on controlled sequences and on a real-world task involving chemical structures confirm the computational limitations of RCC, while assessing the efficiency and efficacy of CRCC in dealing both with pure causal and contextual prediction tasks. Moreover, results obtained for the real-world task show the superiority of the proposed approach versus RCC when exploring a task for which it is not known whether the structural causality assumption holds.
A neural network learning for adaptively extracting cross-correlation features between two high-dimensional data streams.	This paper proposes a novel cross-correlation neural network (CNN) model for finding the principal singular subspace of a cross-correlation matrix between two high-dimensional data streams. We introduce a novel nonquadratic criterion (NQC) for searching the optimum weights of two linear neural networks (LNN). The NQC exhibits a single global minimum attained if and only if the weight matrices of the left and right neural networks span the left and right principal singular subspace of a cross-correlation matrix, respectively. The other stationary points of the NQC are (unstable) saddle points. We develop an adaptive algorithm based on the NQC for tracking the principal singular subspace of a cross-correlation matrix between two high-dimensional vector sequences. The NQC algorithm provides a fast online learning of the optimum weights for two LNN. The global asymptotic stability of the NQC algorithm is analyzed. The NQC algorithm has several key advantages such as faster convergence, which is illustrated through simulations.
Biochemical bone marrow markers and their significance in postmenopausal osteoporosis--a new method in the diagnosis of osteoporosis?]	This study analyzes the qualification of biochemical markers in the diagnosis of osteoporosis and evaluates the potential of a multiparametric classification of premenopausal and non-osteoporotic as well as osteoporotic postmenopausal women, which is based on biochemical marker profiles. For this evaluation data of 29 women in the age between 28-74 years were used. The classification of osteoporosis was done by the trabecular density of the lumbar spine using qCT-measurements. The biochemical markers of formation and resorption AP, bAP, OC, ucOC, PICP, PYD, DPD, NTX, BSP and vitamin K were analyzed on day 1 and 42 in all patients. For vitamin K we found significant distribution differences between non-osteoporotic and osteoporotic women (p<0.005). The crosslinks PYD and DPD showed weakly significant differences. All other parameters exhibited non-significant results. Vitamin K acted with a sensitivity of 64% and a specificity of 82%. The used multiparameter classification process improved sensitivity and specificity considerably. The parameter profiles of OC/PYD, vitamin K/PYD and vitamin K/bAP revealed the highest sensitivities with specificities of more than 82%.
Correlation between plasma alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone concentration and body mass index in healthy horses.	To evaluate the correlation between plasma alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) concentration and body mass index (BMI) in healthy horses.
An investigation on the use of data-driven scattering profiles in Monte Carlo simulations of ultraviolet light propagation in skin tissues.	Ultraviolet light can affect the appearance and medical condition of the human skin by triggering biophysical processes such as erythema, melanogenesis, photoaging and carcinogenesis. The evolution of these processes is related to the amount of ultraviolet light absorbed by skin pigments. This amount may vary with the wavelength and path length of the radiation that is propagated within the skin tissues. For many years, biomedical researchers have been investigating the propagation of ultraviolet light in skin tissues through Monte Carlo simulations. The scattering of the incident radiation by tissue internal structures, a key component in this process, is usually approximated by functions without a plausible connection with the underlying physical phenomena. In this paper, we examine the origins of such an approach, and question its generalized use with respect to wavelengths and biological materials for which there is no supporting data available. Furthermore, we perform comparisons to demonstrate that the accuracy and predictability of Monte Carlo simulations of ultraviolet propagation in skin tissues can be improved by using a data-driven approach to represent the scattering profile of these tissues.
Depression and diabetes symptom burden.	To examine the relationship among patient-reported diabetes symptoms, severity of depressive illness and objective measures of diabetes control and severity among a population-based sample of patients with diabetes.
MMPI inmate profiles: suicide completers, suicide attempters, and non-suicidal controls.	Results from the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) were compared for three groups of male inmates in federal penitentiaries: 47 suicide completers, 43 suicide attempters and, 123 non-suicidal controls. Analyses show that the groups differed on all 10 clinical scales and on at least 8 after Bonferroni correction. Attempters obtained the highest scores on 4 of 8 scales; they also posted the highest scores on 3 others, but differences were significant only against non-suicidal controls. Completers posted the highest score on only one scale (Mf), but the difference was significant only against non-suicidal controls. All told, completers proved more similar to non-suicidal controls than to attempters. Regarding profiles, completers are more strongly correlated with non-suicidal controls (r=0.95) than with attempters (r=0.86); non-suicidal controls are less strongly correlated with attempters (r=0.88). The fact that attempters seem more pathological than the others can mislead clinicians screening for suicide risk.
Statistical notes. From superiority to non-inferiority clinical trials: a leap in the dark?]	In these "statistical notes", equivalence and non-inferiority randomized controlled clinical trials (RCCT) are considered. Equivalence trials are designed to confirm the absence of a meaningful difference between the effect of two treatments. Non-inferiority trials are designed to prove that the new treatment is no less effective than an existing one: it may be more effective or it may have a similar effect. In this note the attention is addressed to suitable criteria for the choice of the tolerance margin epsilon, i.e. the largest difference which is clinically acceptable, so that a difference bigger than that would matter in practice. In particular, the procedures for the determination of the margin epsilon, used by the authors of the non-inferiority RCCT COBALT and INJECT, are presented and discussed in detail. The ethical implications of equivalence and non-inferiority RCCT are here considered and the reader is repeatedly invited to consider the appropriateness of the basic arguments asserted by the supporters of this kind of studies.
Environmental monitoring: data trending using a frequency model.	Environmental monitoring programs for the oversight of classified environments have used traditional statistical control charts to monitor trends in microbial recovery for classified environments. These methodologies work well for environments that yield measurable microbial recoveries. However, today successful increased control of microbial content yields numerous instances where microbial recovery in a sample is generally zero. As a result, traditional control chart methods cannot be used appropriately. Two methods to monitor the performance of a classified environment where microbial recovery is zero are presented. Both methods use the frequency between non-zero microbial recovery as an event. Therefore, the frequency of events is monitored rather than the microbial recovery count. Both methods are shown to be appropriate for use in the described instances.
Efficiency and current in a correlated ratchet.	We present a detailed study of the transport and the efficiency of a ratchet system in a periodic potential in the presence of correlated noises. The current and the efficiency of the system are investigated. It is found that, when the potential is spatially symmetric, the correlation between the two noises can induce a net transport. The efficiency shows many interesting features as a function of the applied force, the noise intensity, the external load, etc. The efficiency can be maximized as a function of noise intensity (or temperature), which shows that the thermal fluctuation can facilitate the efficiency of energy transformation.
Phase synchronization in unidirectionally coupled chaotic ratchets.	We study chaotic phase synchronization of unidirectionally coupled deterministic chaotic ratchets. The coupled ratchets were simulated in their chaotic states and perfect phase locking was observed as the coupling was gradually increased. We identified the region of phase synchronization for the ratchets and show that the transition to chaotic phase synchronization is via an interior crisis transition to strange attractor in the phase space.
Bulk optical properties and tissue components in the female breast from multiwavelength time-resolved optical mammography.	We present the results of a clinical study about optical properties and bulk composition of the female breast. The clinical study involved more than 150 subjects that underwent optical mammography. A multiwavelength time-resolved mammograph designed to collect time-resolved transmittance images of the breast at different wavelengths in the range 637 to 980 nm is used to this purpose. From the absorption spectrum of the breast, the concentrations of the main tissue constituents, i.e., oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin, lipid, and water, are obtained for a subset of 113 breasts. The lipid content of breast is estimated for the first time on such a large number of subjects. The total hemoglobin concentration, blood oxygen saturation, lipid, and water content of breast is correlated to demographic information collected during the trial. As expected, breast optical properties and components undergo huge variations among different subjects. Different constituents, however, show interesting correlation with clinical parameters such as age, breast size, body mass index, and mammographic parenchymal pattern. These results suggest that optical measurements on breasts can be exploited to obtain relevant information on breast tissue composition.
Spectroscopic time-resolved diffuse reflectance and transmittance measurements of the female breast at different interfiber distances.	The first, to our knowledge, in-vivo broadband spectroscopic characterization of breast tissue using different interfiber distances as well as transmittance measurements is presented. Absorption and scattering properties are measured on six healthy subjects, using time-resolved diffuse spectroscopy and an inverse model based on the diffusion equation. Wavelength-tunable picosecond-pulse lasers and time-correlated single-photon counting detection are employed, enabling fully spectroscopic measurements in the range 610 to 1040 nm. Characterization of the absorption and reduced scattering coefficients of breast tissue is made with the aim of investigating individual variations, as well as variations due to different measurement geometries. Diffuse reflectance measurements at different interfiber distances (2, 3, and 4 cm) are performed, as well as measurements in transmittance mode, meaning that different sampling volumes are involved. The results show a large variation in the absorption and scattering properties depending on the subject, correlating mainly with the water versus lipid content of the breast. Intrasubject variations, due to different interfiber distances or transmittance modes, correlate with the known structures of the breast, but these variations are small compared to the subject-to-subject variation. The intrasubject variations are larger for the scattering data than the absorption data; this is consistent with different spatial localization of the measurements of these parameters, which is explained by the photon migration theory.
Near-infrared imaging of the human breast: complementing hemoglobin concentration maps with oxygenation images.	We have previously reported a comparison between edge-corrected near-infrared optical mammograms and those that have undergone a further image-processing step based on a spatial second derivative. In this work, we go a step further by combining the second-derivative images from four wavelengths (690, 750, 788, and 856 nm) to obtain oxygenation-index images. While the spatial second derivative improves contrast and allows for visibility of fine structures in the images, thereby improving the sensitivity to tumor detection, additional information is needed to avoid false-positive results. The oxygenation-index images are introduced to address this issue. Oxygenation information may help discriminate benign from malignant breast lesions, thereby effectively complementing single-wavelength optical mammograms that display optically dense regions within the breast with high sensitivity.
Improved quantification of small objects in near-infrared diffuse optical tomography.	Diffuse optical tomography allows quantification of hemoglobin, oxygen saturation, and water in tissue, and the fidelity in this quantification is dependent on the accuracy of optical properties determined during image reconstruction. In this study, a three-step algorithm is proposed and validated that uses the standard Newton minimization with Levenberg-Marquardt regularization as the first step. The second step is a modification to the existing algorithm using a two-parameter regularization to allow lower damping in a region of interest as compared to background. This second stage allows the recovery of the actual size of an inclusion. A region-based reconstruction is the final third step, which uses the estimated size and position information from step 2 to yield quantitatively accurate average values for the optical parameters. The algorithm is tested on simulated and experimental data and is found to be insensitive to object contrast and position. The percentage error between the true and the average recovered value for the absorption coefficient in test images is reduced from 47 to 27% for a 10-mm inclusion, from 38 to 13% for a 15-mm anomaly, and from 28 to 5.5% for a 20-mm heterogeneity. Simulated data with absorbing and scattering heterogeneities of 15 mm diam located in different positions show recovery with less than 15% error in absorption and 6% error in reduced scattering coefficients. The algorithm is successfully applied to clinical data from a subject with a breast abnormality to yield quantitatively increased absorption coefficients, which enhances the contrast to 3.8 compared to 1.23 previously.
Photoacoustic imaging of blood vessels with a double-ring sensor featuring a narrow angular aperture.	A photoacoustic double-ring sensor, featuring a narrow angular aperture, is developed for laser-induced photoacoustic imaging of blood vessels. An integrated optical fiber enables reflection-mode detection of ultrasonic waves. By using the cross-correlation between the signals detected by the two rings, the angular aperture of the sensor is reduced by a factor of 1.9, from 1.5 to 0.8 deg. Consequently, photoacoustic images could be obtained in a manner analogous to the ultrasound B-scan mode. Next, the cross section of artificial blood vessels is visualized by reconstruction of the absorbed energy distribution. Finally, in vivo imaging and the subsequent reconstruction of the absorbed energy distribution is demonstrated for superficial blood vessels in the human wrist.
ADHD and alcohol dependence: a common genetic predisposition?]	Nearly 50 % of subjects with continuing symptoms of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adulthood show a comorbid substance use disorder. Both, ADHD and alcohol dependence have a high genetic load and might even share overlapping sources of genetic liability.
Determining serum concentrations of the modern antipsychotic quetiapin: clinical relevance in therapeutic drug monitoring]	The results concerning therapeutic drug monitoring of Quetiapin concentration in 152 in-patients will be presented.
Relationship between major depression and high serum cholesterol in Japanese men.	Although it has been argued that those with lower levels of serum cholesterol are likely to be depressive, the findings are inconsistent. The present study attempted to clarify the relationship between major depression and serum total cholesterol in a working population. Subjects were 987 Japanese men working at an institute, aged 20 to 64 years. In addition to blood examinations and physical measurements, clinical structured interviews of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) were used to detect major depression. The prevalence of major depression was higher in the hypercholesterolemics (serum total cholesterol levels > or = 5.69 mmol/liter) than in the normocholesterolemics (3.10-5.69 mmol/liter) (6.1% vs 1.8%, p < 0.05). Notably, there was no case with major depression among the hypocholesterolemics (< 3.10 mmol/liter). Through a multiple regression analysis, serum total cholesterol levels were positively predicted by the following four variables: major depression, age, body mass index, and skipping breakfast (all p < 0.01). Concerning those diagnosed with major depression, serum total cholesterol levels remained higher in the following year (p < 0.05), comparing to those without such diagnosis. Therefore, depression is associated with higher serum cholesterol levels in a population of Japanese male workers. The irregularity of eating behavior may be one of the factors mediating high serum cholesterol levels and major depression.
Increased mRNA expression of Th1-cytokine signaling molecules in patients with HTLV-I-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis.	Expression of inflammatory cytokines derived from Th1 cell population is increased in patients with human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). It has been shown that cytokine signaling molecules, including transcription factors T-bet and GATA-3, interleukin-12 receptor beta 2 (IL-12R beta 2) and suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS), such as SOCS1, are important in differentiation of naive T cells into Th1 helper T cells. To assess the immunological status from the stand-point of cytokine signaling in patients with HAM/TSP, we analyzed mRNA expression of these cytokine signaling molecules in peripheral blood mononuclear cells using quantitative RT-PCR. Twenty-eight HAM/TSP patients, nine HTLV-I-infected individuals without HAM/TSP and twenty-two HTLV-I-uninfected individuals were included in this study. Expression of T-bet, GATA-3, IL-12R beta 2 and SOCS1 was significantly increased in HAM/TSP patients in comparison with HTLV-I-uninfected individuals. In contrast, expression of SOCS3, a marker for Th2 cells, was significantly decreased in HTLV-I-infected individuals. These results indicate that HAM/TSP patients are associated with increased Th1 and decreased Th2 cytokine signaling activities.
Flow cytometric evaluation of bone marrow plasma cells using CD19, CD45, CD56, CD38, and CD138 and correlation with bone marrow infiltration ratio in multiple myeloma patients.	To examine the co-expression of CD19, CD45, CD38, CD56, and CD138 molecules in plasma cells of bone marrow (BM) aspirates and their relation with BM infiltration, and treatment in patients with multiple myeloma by flow cytometry.
Plasma fibrinogen and its correlates in adult Saudi population.	To determine plasma fibrinogen and its correlates in the adult Saudi population and to investigate hyperfibrinogenemia as a possible risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVD).
The impact of non-compliance with the therapeutic regimen on the development of stroke among hypertensive men and women in Gaza, Palestine.	Hypertension and stroke are 2 major public health problems worldwide. Several biological and non-biological risk factors for stroke have been identified in the past. Little is known regarding risk factors for stroke among the Arabic population in Gaza. To identify potential risk factors we investigated compliance with the therapeutic regimen and life style factors which may increase the risk for stroke.
Determining the magnitude of treatment effects in strength training research through the use of the effect size.	In order to improve the applicability of research to exercise professionals, it is suggested that researchers analyze and report data in intervention studies that can be interpreted in relation to other studies. The effect size and proposed scale for determining the magnitude of the treatment effect can assist strength and conditioning professionals in interpreting and applying the findings of the strength training studies.
Synthesizing strength and conditioning research: the meta-analysis.	As the body of research examining strength and conditioning topics grows, it is vital that researchers be able to effectively synthesize research findings. The meta-analysis has been shown to be a more advanced form of research synthesis than the conventional narrative review. Meta-analytic procedures are discussed and applications to strength related research are presented.
Single-subject research designs and data analyses for assessing elite athletes' conditioning.	Research in conditioning (all the processes of preparation for competition) has used group research designs, where multiple athletes are observed at one or more points in time. However, empirical reports of large inter-individual differences in response to conditioning regimens suggest that applied conditioning research would greatly benefit from single-subject research designs. Single-subject research designs allow us to find out the extent to which a specific conditioning regimen works for a specific athlete, as opposed to the average athlete, who is the focal point of group research designs. The aim of the following review is to outline the strategies and procedures of single-subject research as they pertain to the assessment of conditioning for individual athletes. The four main experimental designs in single-subject research are: the AB design, reversal (withdrawal) designs and their extensions, multiple baseline designs and alternating treatment designs. Visual and statistical analyses commonly used to analyse single-subject data, and advantages and limitations are discussed. Modelling of multivariate single-subject data using techniques such as dynamic factor analysis and structural equation modelling may identify individualised models of conditioning leading to better prediction of performance. Despite problems associated with data analyses in single-subject research (e.g. serial dependency), sports scientists should use single-subject research designs in applied conditioning research to understand how well an intervention (e.g. a training method) works and to predict performance for a particular athlete.
Micronuclei in peripheral blood lymphocytes of workers exposed to lead.	Lead plays an important role in many industrial processes. Although highly useful to man, lead has various types of toxic effects. There is constantly growing evidence of a relationship between the induction of chromosome breaks and an increased risk of onset of cancer. However, available data about the possible genotoxic and carcinogenic action of lead are conflicting. In this report we present the results of studies on lead concentrations in blood and the respective micronucleus frequencies in peripheral blood lymphocytes from workers employed in the recycling of automotive batteries in the surroundings of Porto Alegre, Brazil. We observed that in the occupationally exposed group, both lead concentration in peripheral blood and micronucleus frequency in lymphocytes were significantly higher compared to control (Z=6.35, P<0.0001 and Z=4.47, P<0.0001). The nuclear division index (NDI) values were significantly higher in the control group than in the exposed group (Z=2.13, P=0.0330), indicating a possible effect of Pb on nuclear proliferation. We also detected a negative correlation between micronuclei and progression of nuclear division (tau=-0.312, P=0.0129). There were no changes in micronucleus frequency between smoking and non-smoking workers exposed to lead (Z=0.03, P=0.9790). The only difference found between the groups of smokers and non-smokers was with respect to NDI, whose values were significantly higher among non-smokers (Z=1.98, P=0.0481).
Statistical errors in immunologic research.	Medical research articles have always been subject to errors in reporting statistical results. Although most of these are minor, they raise questions about the integrity of medical research. Most of the errors come from a misunderstanding about the tools used in statistical analysis. This article discusses some of the most frequent errors and provides examples of how to deal with them correctly.
Differences in the force/endurance relationship between young and older men.	The aim of the present study was to ascertain if in six young (23-35 years) and in six older (70-72 years) healthy men matched for comparable absolute and specific maximal force of the dominant elbow flexors, differences in isometric endurance, myoelectrical fatigability, and shortening velocity are still recognizable. To assess the specific force, the muscle cross sectional area (CSA) was determined from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. The performance of the elbow flexors was studied by assessing the isometric endurance times (ET) at different percentages of maximal isometric contraction (MVC), the average muscle fibre conduction velocity of action potentials (CV), and the median frequency (MDF) of the surface electromyogram (sEMG) of the biceps brachii. Finally, the torque-velocity curve was assessed by means of maximal isokinetic contractions at six fixed angular velocities. All data were expressed as the mean (SD). The results showed that: (1) the ET was longer in the older subjects at the highest levels of isometric contraction, independently from the absolute force; (2) the modifications of muscle fibre CV during isometric effort progressed less rapidly in the older than the younger groups, as did those of MDF; and (3) at the same angular velocity, the older subjects exerted less absolute force than the younger subjects. These results suggest an impairment of the neuromuscular system of older men, which is less powerful and less fatigable than that of young men.
Comparison of cardiac troponin I versus T and creatine kinase MB after coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with and without perioperative myocardial infarction.	Cardiac troponins have shown to be specific markers of myocardial injury. The aim of this prospective study was to compare patterns and kinetics of troponin I and T after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with or without perioperative myocardial infarction (PMI).
Swallowing threshold and masticatory performance in dentate adults.	A variety of both natural and artificial foods are commonly used for the evaluation of masticatory function. We compared swallowing thresholds of three natural foods (peanuts, cheese and carrots) to those of a standardized artificial test food (Optocal Plus) and examined the relationship between masticatory performance and the swallowing threshold. Eighty-seven healthy dentate subjects participated (25 men and 62 women, aged 42.0+/-12.1 years). We evaluated the dental state, registered the number of chewing strokes used before swallowing, analyzed the chewed particles and determined median particle sizes (X50) for Optocal Plus after 15 chewing strokes and at the moment of swallowing. The results show that the number of strokes used before swallowing each natural food linearly increased with volume (P<0.001), and that carrots required more strokes than peanuts and cheese (P<0.001). The number of chewing strokes used before swallowing Optocal Plus was comparable to the number used for carrots. Masticatory performance was significantly influenced by dental state, but not by age or gender. Significant correlations were observed for: (1) the number of chewing strokes used before swallowing natural foods and Optocal Plus; (2) the median particle sizes after 15 strokes and before swallowing; (3) the number of chewing strokes before swallowing and the corresponding median particle size. However, median particle sizes as obtained after 15 strokes did not correlate with the number of strokes used before swallowing (r=0.02). Thus, bad chewers did not necessarily chew longer before swallowing than good chewers. As a consequence bad chewers would, on average, swallow larger food particles.
The effect of transducer characteristics on the estimation of Nakagami paramater as a function of scatterer concentration.	The effect of transducer characteristics on the sensitivity of the Nakagami parameter to detect the variation of scatterer concentrations was studied. The rationale for this study stems from our pilot results which showed that the Nakagami parameters, estimated using a nonfocused transducer were not as sensitive as those of measurements using a commercial ultrasonic scanner in previous reports. This discrepancy may be attributed to the effects of transducer characteristics relative to the size of the resolution cell as verified by measurements of phantoms and 2-D computer simulations. The Nakagami parameter as a function of scatterer concentration was calculated using backscattered signals acquired from the scattering medium of different scatterer concentrations ranging from 2 to 32 scatterers/mm(3) using both 5 MHz nonfocused and focused transducers. Experimental and simulation results obtained from the nonfocused transducer represent that their respective Nakagami parameters increased from 1.17 to 1.31 and from 0.82 to 1.01 corresponding to the increase of scatterer concentrations. For the results obtained from the focused transducer, their average Nakagami parameters increased from 0.27 to 0.72 and from 0.33 to 0.81. These consistent results demonstrated that Nakagami parameter estimated using a focused transducer tends to be more sensitive than that by a nonfocused transducer to detect the variation of low scatterer concentration. This difference is fully due to the effect of transducer characteristics associated with the effective number of scatterers in the resolution cell.
A qualitative approach to identifying psychosocial issues faced by bipolar patients.	Many studies have examined factors influencing or associated with the outcome of bipolar disorder. However, little is known about bipolar patients' subjective experiences of their illness and the issues that are of significance to them. The use of a client-focused approach in identifying these issues is important for planning treatment and clinical medical management to address patients' specific needs. Focus group discussions and individual interviews were conducted with 18 bipolar patients and transcribed verbatim. The data were then analyzed and interpreted according to the phenomenological approach to qualitative research. The data were interpreted in terms of how patients view themselves, their lives and community, and their future. Implications for treatment and future research are discussed.
Mammographic image restoration using maximum entropy deconvolution.	An image restoration approach based on a Bayesian maximum entropy method (MEM) has been applied to a radiological image deconvolution problem, that of reduction of geometric blurring in magnification mammography. The aim of the work is to demonstrate an improvement in image spatial resolution in realistic noisy radiological images with no associated penalty in terms of reduction in the signal-to-noise ratio perceived by the observer. Images of the TORMAM mammographic image quality phantom were recorded using the standard magnification settings of 1.8 magnification/fine focus and also at 1.8 magnification/broad focus and 3.0 magnification/fine focus; the latter two arrangements would normally give rise to unacceptable geometric blurring. Measured point-spread functions were used in conjunction with the MEM image processing to de-blur these images. The results are presented as comparative images of phantom test features and as observer scores for the raw and processed images. Visualization of high resolution features and the total image scores for the test phantom were improved by the application of the MEM processing. It is argued that this successful demonstration of image de-blurring in noisy radiological images offers the possibility of weakening the link between focal spot size and geometric blurring in radiology, thus opening up new approaches to system optimization.
A longitudinal study of implicit and explicit memory in old persons.	Decline in explicit memory with advancing age is a common finding, but it is unclear whether implicit memory (repetition priming) declines or remains stable. Meta-analyses of studies that examined differences between extreme groups (young-old), typically at a single point in time and on a single test, suggest that a mild reduction in priming occurs with advancing age. The authors examined explicit memory and priming, on multiple tests over 4 annual data-collection waves, in a large group of older persons without dementia at baseline. Explicit memory declined significantly, but priming remained stable. Findings indicate that explicit memory and priming are dissociable on the basis of age-related change and that mildly reduced priming is not an inevitable consequence of growing older.
Positive aspects of caregiving and adaptation to bereavement.	This study examined how positive aspects of caregiving affect adaptation to bereavement among older adults who cared for a family member with dementia. The sample consisted of 217 caregivers who were part of the Resources for Enhancing Alzheimer's Caregiver Health Study. Using pre- and postloss data, hierarchical regressions were carried out to examine the effects of positive aspects of caregiving (caregiving benefit) on postloss depression and grief. Findings show that preloss caregiving benefit was associated with higher levels of postloss depression and grief, even after controlling for caregiver demographic characteristics, contextual factors, and caregiving burden. This effect was particularly strong for the relation between benefit and grief. Results demonstrate the importance of studying both positive and negative aspects of caregiving and their relation to bereavement outcomes.
Total and ionized plasma magnesium concentrations in children after traumatic brain injury.	This study examined 1) whether plasma total Mg (TMg) and ionized Mg (IMg) concentrations in children are reduced by traumatic brain injury (TBI) and 2) whether the extent of reduction correlates with severity of trauma assessed by the Glasgow Coma Scale (GSC) score. This was a prospective cohort study of 98 pediatric patients who had TBI and were admitted through the emergency department. A GCS score was assigned and blood was obtained upon presentation and 24 h later. Plasma was analyzed for TMg and IMg. Patients were grouped into three categories-GCS scores 13-15, 8-12, and <8-to designate mild (n=21), moderate (n=37), and severe (n=40) TBI, respectively. Blood was obtained from 50 healthy children before elective surgery as controls. Control subjects had a TMg and an IMg of 0.94 +/- 0.08 and 0.550 +/- 0.06 mM. TBI patients had an initial TMg and IMg of 0.83 +/- 0.09 and 0.520 +/- 0.05 mM, respectively. Initial TMg for mild, moderate, and severe TBI subgroups (0.87 +/- 0.16, 0.81 +/- 0.15, and 0.83 +/- 0.14 mM, respectively) was reduced from control subjects (p <0.01). IMg was reduced only in the severe TBI subgroup (0.516 +/- 0.07 mM; p=0.016). Twenty-four hours later, TMg remained lower than in control subjects for all subgroups of TBI; however, IMg normalized. TBI in children is associated with a reduction in TMg, whereas IMg decreased only with severe TBI. IMg returned to control values by 24 h despite a continued lower TMg, suggesting mechanisms to maintain IMg. Changes in plasma IMg may serve as a marker for TBI but only over a limited time interval.
Relationship between psychosocial distress, treatment need and use of psychotherapeutic interventions within a psychosomatic liaison service in hematological oncology.	Psychosocial distress is common in patients with hematological malignancies in the acute phase of the disease. The aim of the study was to evaluate the treatment need and the realization of psychotherapeutic interventions of a routine psychosomatic liaison service delivery in hematological oncology.
Nature and nurture interplay: schizophrenia.	There is compelling evidence from family, twin and adoption studies of a substantial genetic contribution to schizophrenia. The mode of transmission is complicated and very rarely if ever involves a single gene. Rather schizophrenia results from multiple genes of small effect and their interplay with the environment. Perhaps because the overall size of the genetic effect is large, accounting for about 80 % of variance, definite environmental factors have been difficult to pin down. It has even been suggested that "the environment" consists entirely of epigenetic or stochastic phenomena that can never be detected by a standard epidemiological methods. Nevertheless, a variety of social stressors, including high expressed emotion in relatives and life events affect the course of illness and certain physical factors such as obstetric complications and cannabis smoking have been implicated in contributing to liability to the disorder. The recent discovery of several positional candidate genes that have been replicated as being associated with liability to schizophrenia holds considerable promise not just for a better understanding of the neurobiology but also for improved knowledge about risk prediction and gene-environment interplay.
Detection of alveolar epithelial injury by 99mTC-DTPA radioaerosol inhalation lung scan following blunt chest trauma.	DTPA clearance rate is a reliable index of alveolar epithelial permeability, and is a highly sensitive marker of pulmonary epithelial damage, even of mild degree. In this study, 99mTc-DTPA aerosol inhalation scintigraphy was used to assesss the pulmonary epithelial membrane permeability and to investigate the possible application of this permeability value as an indicator of early alveolar or interstitial changes in patients with blunt chest trauma. A total of 26 patients was chest trauma (4 female, 22 male, 31-80 yrs, mean age; 53+/-13 yrs) who were referred to the emergency department in our hospital participated in this tsudy. Technetium-99m diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) aerosol inhalation scintigraphy was performed on the first and thirtieth days after trauma. Clearance half times (T1/2) were calculated by placing a mono-exponential fit on the curves. Penetration index (PI) was calculated on the first-minute image. On the first day, mean T1/2 value of the whole lung was 63+/-19 minutes (min), and thirtieth day mean T1/2 value was 67+/-21 min. On the first day, mean PI values of the lung and 30th day mean PI value were 0.60+/-0.05, and 0.63+/-0.05, respectively. Significant changes were observed in radioaerosol clearance and penetration indices. Following chest trauma, clearance of 99mTc-DTPA increased owing to breakdown of the alveolar-capillary barrier. This increase in the epithelial permeability of the lung appears to be an early manifestation of lung disease that may lead to efficient therapy in the early phase.
Correlation between angiogenesis and reduction ratio measured using 201Tl chloride single photon emission computed tomography in patients with oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma.	The aim of this study is to examine the correlation between tumor angiogenesis and response to preoperative radiotherapy evaluated using 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (Tl SPECT) in oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (SCC).
Bone scintigraphic and CT evaluation of chondrosarcoma of the rib: correlation with histological grade in 6 cases.	The objective of this study is to assess the value of CT and bone scintigraphic findings for grading of rib chondrosarcoma.
Sleep and adolescent suicidal behavior.	Suicide risk begins to increase during adolescence. Adolescents do not get enough sleep and are also at risk for many sleep disturbances. This study examined the association between sleep patterns and sleep problems and adolescent suicidal behavior.
Sleep and sleepiness in young individuals with high burnout scores.	Burnout is a growing health problem in Western society. This study aimed to investigate sleep in subjects scoring high on burnout but still at work. The purpose was also to study the diurnal pattern of sleepiness, as well as ratings of work stress and mood in groups with different burnout scores.
Analysis of sleep-stage characteristics in full-term newborns by means of spectral and fractal parameters.	In this work, we studied the behavior of the fractal dimension during each of the neonatal electroencephalogram (EEG) sleep phases and during the awake state, comparing the results with those of the classical spectral parameters and with zero crossing values.
Assessment of automated scoring of polysomnographic recordings in a population with suspected sleep-disordered breathing.	To assess the accuracy of an automated system (Morpheus I Sleep Scoring System) for analyzing and quantifying polysomnographic data from a population with sleep-disordered breathing.
How to present a paper at a scientific meeting.	Presentation of a scientific work is a learned skill that requires constant improvement especially now with the use of computer aided presentation--Microsoft PowerPoint. It addresses the peculiarities of preparation for a conference in a developing country.
Gestational age and birth weight in relation to n-3 fatty acids among Inuit (Canada).	Seafood consumption during pregnancy carries both benefits (high n-3 FA intake) and risks (exposure to environmental contaminants) for the developing fetus. We determined the impacts of marine n-3 FA and environmental contaminants on gestational age (GA) of Nunavik women and the anthropometric characteristics of their newborns. FA and contaminant (polychlorinated biphenyls and mercury) concentrations were measured in cord plasma of Nunavik newborns (n = 454) and compared with those of a group of newborns (n = 29) from southern Québec. Data were collected from hospital records and birth certificates. In Nunavik newborns, arachidonic acid (AA) was two times lower (P < 0.0001), whereas DHA concentration, the sigman-3 / sigman-6 ratio, and the percentage of n-3 highly unsaturated FA (HUFA) (of the total HUFA) were three times higher (P < 0.0001) compared with southern Québec newborns. After controlling for confounders, GA and birth weight were higher by 5.4 d [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.7-10.1] and 77 g (95% CI: -64 to 217) in the third tertile of percentage of n-3 HUFA (of the total HUFA) as compared with the first tertile. There was no evidence that contaminants had negative effects on GA or birth weight. In this seafood-eating population, an increase in the proportion of n-3 HUFA (of the total HUFA), measured in umbilical cord plasma phospholipids, was associated with a significantly longer GA.
Quantitative determination of low density lipoprotein oxidation by FTIR and chemometric analysis.	This study was conducted to develop a quantitative FTIR spectroscopy method to measure LDL lipid oxidation products and determine the effect of oxidation on LDL lipid and protein. In vitro LDL oxidation at 37 degrees C for 1 h produced a range of conjugated diene (CD) (0.14-0.26 mM/mg protein) and carbonyl contents (0.9-3.8 microg/g protein) that were used to produce calibration sets. Spectra were collected from the calibration set and partial least squares regression was used to develop calibration models from spectral regions 4000-650, 3750-3000, 1720-1500, and 1180-935 cm(-1) to predict CD and carbonyl contents. The optimal models were selected based on their standard error of prediction (SEP), and the selected models were performance-tested with an additional set of LDL spectra. The best models for CD prediction were derived from spectral regions 4000-650 and 1180-935 cm(-1) with the lowest SEP of 0.013 and 0.013 mM/mg protein, respectively. The peaks at 1745 (cholesterol and TAG ester C=O stretch), 1710 (carbonyl C-O stretch), and 1621 cm(-1) (peptide C=O stretch) positively correlated with LDL oxidation. FTIR and chemometrics revealed protein conformational changes during LDL oxidation and provided a simple technique that has potential for rapidly observing structural changes in human LDL during oxidation and for measuring primary and secondary oxidation products.
Renal concentrating capacity is linked to blood pressure in children with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.	Impaired glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a risk factor for the development of hypertension in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). However, markers of tubular function were not tested whether they are linked to hypertension or blood pressure (BP) level. The aim of our study was to investigate the relationship between renal concentrating capacity and BP in children with ADPKD. Fifty-three children (mean age 11.8+/-4.4 years) were investigated. Standardized renal concentrating capacity test was performed after nasal drop application of desmopressin, BP was measured by ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM). Renal concentrating capacity was decreased in 58 % of children. The prevalence of hypertension was significantly higher in children with decreased renal concentrating capacity (35 %) than in children with normal renal concentrating capacity (5 %) (p<0.05). Significant negative correlations were found between renal concentrating capacity, ambulatory BP and number of renal cysts (r = -0.29 to -0.39, p<0.05 to p<0.01). In conclusion, the concentrating capacity is decreased in about half of the patients and is linked to BP. Decreased renal concentrating capacity should be considered.
Effects of acute hypoxia on the estimation of lactate threshold from ventilatory gas exchange indices during an incremental exercise test.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the validity of non-invasive lactate threshold estimation using ventilatory and pulmonary gas exchange indices under condition of acute hypoxia. Seven untrained males (21.4+/-1.2 years) performed two incremental exercise tests using an electromagnetically braked cycle ergometer: one breathing room air and other breathing 12 % O2. The lactate threshold was estimated using the following parameters: increase of ventilatory equivalent for O2 (VE/VO2) without increase of ventilatory equivalent for CO2 (VE/VCO2). It was also determined from the increase in blood lactate and decrease in standard bicarbonate. The VE/VO2 and lactate increase methods yielded the respective values for lactate threshold: 1.91+/-0.10 l/min (for the VE/VO2) vs. 1.89+/-0.1 l/min (for the lactate). However, in hypoxic condition, VE/VO2 started to increase prior to the actual threshold as determined from blood lactate response: 1.67+/-0.1 l/min (for the lactate) vs. 1.37+/-0.09 l/min (for the VE/VO2) (P=0.0001), i.e. resulted in pseudo-threshold behavior. In conclusion, the ventilatory and gas exchange indices provide an accurate lactate threshold. Although the potential for pseudo-threshold behavior of the standard ventilatory and gas exchange indices of the lactate threshold must be concerned if an incremental test is performed under hypoxic conditions in which carotid body chemosensitivity is increased.
Autoimmune thyroid diseases in women with breast cancer and colorectal cancer.	The aim of the study was to compare the prevalence of autoimmune thyroid diseases in three groups of women (66 with breast cancer (CaB), 68 with colorectal cancer (CaC) and 49 without oncological diseases as a control group). Serum levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxin (fT4), antibodies to thyroglobulin (TGB-ab) and thyroperoxidase (TPO-ab) and tumor markers CEA, CA 15-3 and CA 19-9 were investigated in all subjects by using the chemiluminiscence method. In contrast to Graves' disease (no observed case), autoimmune thyroiditis was diagnosed in 24.2 % women with CaB (4.5 % euthyroid and 19.7 % with subclinical or overt hypothyroidism), compared to 16.7 % in women with CaC (2.0 % euthyroid and 14.7 % with subclinical or overt hypothyroidism) and 16.2 % controls (4.0 % euthyroid and 12.2 % with subclinical or overt hypothyroidism). Serum levels of TGB-ab were higher in the group with breast cancer as compared to those with colorectal cancer and the control group (medians: 35.80 vs. 31.75 vs. 27.70, p<0.001). Similarly, the percentage of positive TGB-ab and TPO-ab serum levels was higher in women with breast cancer as compared to those with colorectal cancer and the control group. The results of the study support the controversial theory that there is an increased prevalence of autoimmune thyroiditis in women with breast cancer.
Characterisation of SNP haplotype structure in chemokine and chemokine receptor genes using CEPH pedigrees and statistical estimation.	Chemokine signals and their cell-surface receptors are important modulators of HIV-1 disease and cancer. To aid future case/control association studies, aim to further characterise the haplotype structure of variation in chemokine and chemokine receptor genes. To perform haplotype analysis in a population-based association study, haplotypes must be determined by estimation, in the absence of family information or laboratory methods to establish phase. Here, test the accuracy of estimates of haplotype frequency and linkage disequilibrium by comparing estimated haplotypes generated with the expectation maximisation (EM) algorithm to haplotypes determined from Centre d'Etude Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH) pedigree data. To do this, they have characterised haplotypes comprising alleles at 11 biallelic loci in four chemokine receptor genes (CCR3, CCR2, CCR5 and CCRL2), which span 150 kb on chromosome 3p21, and haplotyes of nine biallelic loci in six chemokine genes [MCP-1(CCL2), Eotaxin(CCL11), RANTES(CCL5), MPIF-1(CCL23), PARC(CCL18) and MIP-1alpha(CCL3)] on chromosome 17q11-12. Forty multi-generation CEPH families, totalling 489 individuals, were genotyped by the TaqMan 5'-nuclease assay. Phased haplotypes and haplotypes estimated from unphased genotypes were compared in 103 grandparents who were assumed to have mated at random. For the 3p21 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data, haplotypes determined by pedigree analysis and haplotypes generated by the EM algorithm were nearly identical. Linkage disequilibrium, measured by the D' statistic, was nearly maximal across the 150 kb region, with complete disequilibrium maintained at the extremes between CCR3-Y17Y and CCRL2-I243V. D'-values calculated from estimated haplotypes on 3p21 had high concordance with pairwise comparisons between pedigree-phased chromosomes. Conversely, there was less agreement between analyses of haplotype frequencies and linkage disequilibrium using estimated haplotypes when compared with pedigree-phased haplotypes of SNPs on chromosome 17q11-12. These results suggest that, while estimations of haplotype frequency and linkage disequilibrium may be relatively simple in the 3p21 chemokine receptor cluster in population samples, the more complex environment on chromosome 17q11-12 will require a higher resolution haplotype analysis.
Analyzing bronchodilation with emphasis on disease type, age and sex.	In the literature, different statistical methods to evaluate bronchodilator studies are used. These approaches are all based on the absence of residual heterogeneity and on baseline independency of the parameter under analysis. A database containing the lung function values of newly referred patients was used to assess these assumptions as function of the underlying diagnosis (asthma, bronchitis and emphysema) and to chart the characteristics of analysis of covariance, which (partly) deals with these drawbacks. Bronchodilator data of 709 asthmatics, 522 bronchitic and 126 emphysema patients were used. It was shown that, in asthma, for almost all lung function parameters, bronchodilation was indeed dependent on baseline values, which was less strong in bronchitis and even weaker in emphysema. A negative effect of age on bronchodilation was found, which is strong in asthma and almost absent in emphysema, rendering the use of bronchodilation as a diagnostic tool less useful. The conclusion is that analysis of covariance is a good way to evaluate bronchodilation studies in obstructive lung disease, particularly in asthma. For bronchitic or emphysema patients, difference-based approaches may suffice. The assumptions underlying the other methods were not met.
Pain in community-dwelling persons with dementia: frequency, intensity, and congruence between patient and caregiver report.	To better understand the pain experience of persons with dementia and to describe what factors are related to congruence of pain reports within patient-caregiver dyads, a cohort study enrolled patient-caregiver dyads at a primary care geriatrics clinic. Thirty-two percent of persons with dementia self-report pain "right now." Of these, 65% report slight/mild pain, 27% moderate pain, and 8% severe pain or greater. Fifty-two percent of caregivers report their care recipients with dementia are in some pain "right now." Of these, 52% report slight/mild pain, 30% moderate, and 18% severe pain or greater. Fifty-nine percent of dyads agree on the presence or absence of patient pain. In multivariate analysis of dyadic congruence of pain reports by patient and caregiver factors, only patient factors predicted congruence. The odds of congruence of pain reports increase 3.7 (1.2-12.3) if the patient is male and decrease 0.938 (0.93-0.99) as the patient becomes more agitated. These findings suggest that community-dwelling persons with dementia report less pain than those in the nursing home and caregivers do a fair job of predicting patient pain.
Neuronal correlates of consistency and frequency effects on Chinese character naming: an event-related fMRI study.	This event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (efMRI) study aims to investigate the central representations of Chinese orthography-to-phonology transformation (OPT) by simultaneously manipulating character frequency and consistency. Bilateral inferior frontal cortices (including Broca's area and insula), the left temporoparietal region (superior parietal gyrus and supramarginal gyrus), and the left temporal-occipital junction showed greater activation, especially in low-frequency conditions, when naming inconsistent characters as compared to consistent ones. These findings suggest that these regions are involved in the sublexical conversion of orthographic input into phonological codes in naming Chinese. The similar activation pattern found in these three regions suggests a distributed process, rather than separate neural routes, for lexical and sublexical OPT. In addition, the regions involved in Chinese OPT are congruent with the findings for reading alphabetic scripts and indicate that the neuronal mechanisms for orthography-to-phonology transformation is domain universal across different writing systems.
To act or not to act. Neural correlates of executive control of learned motor behavior.	Successful behavior requires contextual modulation of learned "programs", that is, the retrieval or nonretrieval (inhibition) of behavioral elements depending on situative context. Here we report neural correlates of these elementary aspects of behavior as identified with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Inhibition of a "ready-to-go" behavioral program was represented in the brain by reduction of net synaptic activity in the cerebro-cerebellar pathway. The metabolic correlate of inhibition was a multifocal (premotor, primary sensorimotor, superior parietal, cingulate cortex, and cerebellum) decrease of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal to below the resting state (negative BOLD) with a concomitant decrease of motor cortical excitability. The reverse was true for retrieval. We propose that contextual modulation of learned behavioral programs depends on an interplay of focal increases and decreases of neural activity and that the inhibitory changes are reflected by negative BOLD responses in an extended cerebro-cerebellar network of sensorimotor structures.
Radial correlation contrast--a functional connectivity MRI contrast to map changes in local neuronal communication.	A functional connectivity MRI method that groups neighboring voxels in relation to their degree of temporal cross-correlation between their time courses is presented. This grouping generates a vector field, which is assumed to provide insights into the local organization of neuronal activity. Application with high spatial resolution fMRI rat data subjected to electric forepaw sensory stimulation (156 . 156 . 1000 micron1) shows a significant localized increase of the vector field amplitude in cortical layers 4 and 2/3 of the primary sensory cortex and in layer 2/3 of the primary motor cortex, suggesting a strong correlation with local neuronal communication. Vector field phases exhibit a transition with neuronal activation from random-like orientations during rest to clusters of common orientations. Cluster size is shown to be weakly dependent on the radii of the vector field calculation, and shuffling voxel position within clusters generates a random-like vector orientation instead. This suggests that changes in vector orientations upon activation represent changes in the internal correlation between voxels that is interpreted as a change in the internal neuronal communication.
Partial breast irradiation as second conservative treatment for local breast cancer recurrence.	Mastectomy is the treatment of reference for local relapse after breast cancer (BC). The aim of this study was to document the feasibility and the results of associating lumpectomy with partial breast irradiation by interstitial brachytherapy (IB) as local treatment for an isolated ipsilateral BC local recurrence (LR).
Receptive field size and response latency are correlated within the cat visual thalamus.	Each point in visual space is encoded at the level of the thalamus by a group of neighboring cells with overlapping receptive fields. Here we show that the receptive fields of these cells differ in size and response latency but not at random. We have found that in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) the receptive field size and response latency of neighboring neurons are significantly correlated: the larger the receptive field, the faster the response to visual stimuli. This correlation is widespread in LGN. It is found in groups of cells belonging to the same type (e.g., Y cells), and of different types (i.e., X and Y), within a specific layer or across different layers. These results indicate that the inputs from the multiple geniculate afferents that converge onto a cortical cell (approximately 30) are likely to arrive in a sequence determined by the receptive field size of the geniculate afferents. Recent studies have shown that the peak of the spatial frequency tuning of a cortical cell shifts toward higher frequencies as the response progresses in time. Our results are consistent with the idea that these shifts in spatial frequency tuning arise from differences in the response time course of the thalamic inputs.
Accounting for time: insights from a life-table analysis of the efficacy of medical abortion.	Previously published analyses have ignored the temporal nature of medical abortion and calculated effectiveness as the proportion of abortions that succeed. By using life tables, we incorporate the important element of time to produce unbiased efficacy rates as well as afford insight into the medical abortion process.
Quantitative MR analyses of the hippocampus: unspecific metabolic changes in aging.	The age-related structural changes of the human hippocampus are not entirely understood. The goal of the present investigation was to understand better the nature of age-related hippocampal changes by a comparative MR-analysis of four complementary aspects of hippocampal integrity: total volume, metabolite concentration, neuron to glial cell ratio and amount of extracellular diffusion space for water. To that end, we applied MR-based methods of manual and computerized (voxel-based morphometry) volumetry, diffusion-weighted imaging and 1H MR spectroscopy to characterize specific age-related hippocampal effects in a group of 22 healthy old adults in comparison with a group of 13 healthy younger adults. Age-related reductions of the hippocampal N-acetyl aspartate to creatine/choline ratio together with only marginal age-related reductions in hippocampal volumes and increases in diffusion parameters suggest that the process of aging affects mainly the metabolic status of the hippocampus with little equivalent age-related changes in hippocampal cell density. The metabolic changes are unspecific as they are not restricted to the hippocampus but equally occur in measures obtained from extrahippocampal temporal lobe regions.
The relationship between neuropsychological test performance, social functioning, and instrumental activities of daily living in a sample of rural older adults.	This study examined the relationship between neuropsychological functioning, activities of daily living, and social interaction in a biracial sample of 133 rural community-dwelling participants with fewer than 10 years of education, who were tested twice over 4 years as part of a normative study. Neuropsychological tests predicted self-reported IADL and social functioning at Time 1 after accounting for age, education, health, depression, and gender. Physical health and the Initiation and Perseveration subscale of the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale best predicted instrumental activities of daily living. Social functioning was best predicted by gender and delayed memory recall from the Fuld Object Memory Evaluation. Functional independence and social activities declined slightly over time for all participants, but those whose neuropsychological test scores declined significantly at Time 2 reported less independence and fewer social activities at Time 1 than those participants whose cognition remained stable. Ecological and concurrent validity of self-report measures of functional status and neuropsychological testing in predicting cognitive decline are discussed.
Correlative studies of gating in Cx46 and Cx50 hemichannels and gap junction channels.	Transjunctional voltage (V(j)) gating of gap junction (GJ) channels formed of connexins has been proposed to occur by gating of the component hemichannels. We took advantage of the ability of Cx46 and Cx50 to function as unapposed hemichannels to identify gating properties intrinsic to hemichannels and how they contribute to gating of GJ channels. We show that Cx46 and Cx50 hemichannels contain two distinct gating mechanisms that generate reductions in conductance for both membrane polarities. At positive voltages, gating is similar in Cx46 and Cx50 hemichannels, primarily showing increased transitioning to long-lived substates. At negative voltages, Cx46 currents deactivate completely and the underlying single hemichannels exhibit transitions to a fully closed state. In contrast, Cx50 currents do not deactivate completely at negative voltages and the underlying single hemichannels predominantly exhibit transitions to various substates. Transitions to a fully closed state occur, but are infrequent. In the respective GJ channels, both forms of gating contribute to the reduction in conductance by V(j). However, examination of gating of mutant hemichannels and GJ channels in which the Asp at position 3 was replaced with Asn (D3N) showed that the positive hemichannel gate predominantly closes Cx50 GJs, whereas the negative hemichannel gate predominantly closes Cx46 GJs in response to V(j). We also report, for the first time, single Cx50 hemichannels in oocytes to be inwardly rectifying, high conductance channels (gamma = 470 pS). The antimalarial drug mefloquine, which selectively blocks Cx50 and not Cx46 GJs, shows the same selectivity in Cx50 and Cx46 hemichannels indicating that the actions of such uncoupling agents, like voltage gating, are intrinsic hemichannel properties.
National and state estimates of the mean ethanol content of beer sold in the US and their impact on per capita consumption estimates: 1988 to 2001.	The average ethanol content of the beer sold in the US is a key factor in determining the per capita consumption of ethanol, the standard measure of alcohol use in aggregate-level research. To address the lack of empirically based estimates of beer ethanol content, we have calculated national estimates for the years 1988 to 2001 and state-specific estimates for 1993 to 2001.
Phonological loop and minimal pair discrimination in preschool children]	Phoneme discrimination tests based on presenting minimal pairs (MP) are frequently used to assess auditory processing. However test results may be influenced by other factors beside proper acoustic representation. Here we aim at determining whether working memory capacity (WMC) correlates with reproducing sets of MP.
A clinical and epidemiological description of a series of patients diagnosed as suffering from progressive supranuclear palsy]	Progressive supranuclear palsy is a disease that normally presents only sporadically in adults and courses in a progressive, chronic manner. It is characterised by the presence of supranuclear ophthalmoplegia, postural instability, a Parkinsonian syndrome, pseudobulbar affect, cervical dystonia and cognitive impairment.
Psychotherapeutic relationship and outcome in psychotherapy of personality disorders]	The study examines the predictive significance we of the quality of the individual therapeutic relationship for outcome in patients with personality disorders who underwent inpatient psychodynamic psychotherapy.
Predictors of successful heart failure self-care maintenance in the first three months after hospitalization.	The objective of this study was to replicate a prior study of predictors of self-care in heart failure (HF).
Assessing investment in manual handling risk controls: a scoring system for use in observational studies.	Most UK hospitals now have manual handling policies, but few studies have assessed their impact. To facilitate such research, a system for ranking the investment in manual handling risk controls was devised and applied to 109 acute hospitals in the UK. High scoring hospitals performed well on all aspects of manual handling risk management. Low scoring hospitals had a manual handling policy and recorded accidents and sickness absence, but had limited resource for expert manpower and equipment.
The association between multiple drug misuse and crime.	Research that has investigated the association between specific drug types and crime has tended to focus on the specific drug type in isolation from other drugs. The main problem with this is that it cannot be assumed that the association between specific drug use and crime will be the same regardless of the additional drugs consumed. The research aimed to investigate whether there was a correlation between number and type of drugs used and involvement in crime. The analysis of multiple drug use was based on data collected as part of the New English and Welsh Arrestee Drug Abuse Monitoring program in the United Kingdom. The results showed that both the number of drug types consumed and the particular drug type combinations used explained offending rate. The research concluded that the investigation of links between multiple drug use and crime might help inform antidrugs strategies and treatment services.
Differences in self-report measures by adolescent sex offender risk group.	Differences in self-reports among three groups of juvenile sex offenders (N = 162) were examined. Risk was defined as the sum of the following static variables based on interviews with juveniles and others and from written records: type of offense (violent or predatory = 1, not = 0), prior sex offense (any = 1, none = 0), history of sexual abuse (self or family = 1, none = 0), history of substance abuse (self or family = 1, none = 0), history of behavior problems (yes = 1, no = 0), and unstable home life (yes = 1, stable = 0). Low-risk (0 to 2 risk factors), medium-risk (3 factors), and high-risk (4 to 6 factors) groups of offenders were formed. Univariate ANCOVAs indicated that the high-risk group reported less family cohesion, more aggression, lower self-esteem, more social discomfort, and more frequent and extreme sexual fantasies. The implications of these findings for differential identification of and interventions with adolescent sex offenders are discussed.
Brain perfusion SPECT in impulsivity-related personality disorders.	Impulsive behaviours in patients with cluster B personality disorders are associated with low glucose metabolism and regional cerebral blood flow in the frontal cortex and subcortical structures. The aim of this study is to confirm the presence of a particular pattern of brain perfusion in a sample of borderline (BPD) and anti-social personality disorder (ASPD) patients using brain perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
An analysis of the pacing strategy adopted by elite competitors in 2000 m rowing.	To determine the pacing strategies adopted by elite rowers in championship 2000 m races.
The relationship between executive functioning and verbal and visual learning and memory.	Executive functions, which include an individual's ability to develop a response set, inhibit behaviors, plan, and reason, likely impact other areas of cognitive functioning, such as learning and memory. The present study examined the relationship between executive functioning and a wide array of standardized, clinical verbal and visual learning and memory measures in 212 patients referred for a neuropsychological evaluation. IQ was also included in the analyses. Results of the canonical correlation analyses indicated that the two cognitive domains shared 55-60% of variance, and two canonical variates were present. Although causality cannot be inferred, a clear and robust relationship between executive functioning and memory is evident, and clinicians should consider this overlap when interpreting poor performance among these two domains.
Dementia does not explain correlation between age and scores on Boston Naming Test.	The major purpose of this study was to determine if the correlation between age and performance on the Boston Naming Test that has been reported by some investigators results from inclusion of people in the early stages of dementia in those samples. The correlation between age and naming score was -.36 in 125 carefully evaluated nondemented individuals aged 60-88 years who were enrolled in the control group at an Alzheimer's Disease Research Center between 1985 and 1998. All participants remained undemented for at least 2 years after testing. The magnitude of the correlation between naming scores and age was similar to that found in unscreened samples. Increased confrontation naming difficulty appears to occur with normal aging.
Genetic epidemiology of skeletal system aging in apparently healthy human population.	The study of our team was driven by a clinical problem of age-dependent chronic degenerative disease of skeleton that includes osteoporosis (OP) and osteoarthritis (OA)-related phenotypes. The major aims of the study included evaluation of the putative genetic factors determining the rate and pattern of the bone and cartilage loss and identification of the specific genes involved in this process. In addition, we examined genetic effects on circulating molecular factors involved in bone and cartilage metabolism. The skeletal phenotypes were assessed from hand radiographs, in total on about 1200 individuals belonging to ethnically homogeneous nuclear and complex three-generational pedigrees of European origin. The results obtained until now can be divided into three sections: (1) genetic analysis of bone mass/size/geometry characteristics (OP) and traits related to hand OA; (2) pedigree-based investigation of circulating levels of calciotropic hormones, growth factors, cytokines, and biochemical indices of bone and cartilage remodelling; (3) linkage and linkage disequilibrium study of several candidate genes, such as estrogen receptor alpha, collagen type I alpha 1, genes related to extracellular inorganic pyrophosphate transport and OP/OA phenotypes, including biochemical variables. The study provides compelling evidence to suggest strong involvement of the genetic factors in determination of variation of the majority of the examined OP- and OA-related phenotypes.
Statistical and generalized two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy of multiple ionization States. Fluorescence of neurotransmitter serotonin.	Fluorescence spectra of neurotransmitter serotonin are analyzed with generalized and statistical two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy. A comparison is provided for these two emerging data analysis techniques. Both methods reveal correlations between spectral variables and demonstrate enhanced sensitivity in detecting the dynamic spectral changes over conventional one-dimensional spectroscopy. Both statistical and generalized 2D correlation analysis emphasize simultaneous spectral changes in response to external perturbations. Generalized 2D correlation spectroscopy further reveals the difference in rates of these dynamic changes. Using 2D correlation analysis, a third ionization species of serotonin is identified using pH and excitation wavelength perturbation. This species is a doubly deprotonated serotonin with very low fluorescence quantum yield, confirmed by using a laser excitation at longer wavelength and at higher pH. Taking advantage of the spectral differences between excitation of serotonin and tryptophan, as low as 3.8 nM serotonin can be detected in the presence of 20 microM tryptophan, with long-wavelength excitation. This represents the sensitive detection of serotonin in 5000-fold excess of tryptophan.
Monitoring the performance and decline of heritage trees in urban Hong Kong.	Urban trees in Hong Kong exist in stressful and harsh habitat conditions due mainly to the exceptionally high-density development mode. This study focuses on the cream of the urban tree stock, the heritage trees, which were selected according to five sets of stringent criteria: species, dimension, structure, condition, location, and special considerations. The study area covers the main urban core of the city. The loss of trees in two periods, 1993-1998 and 1999-2003, was monitored, with the predisposing and direct causes of damages ascertained as far as possible. Of the 380 heritage specimens, 54 trees were lost in the survey period. The main predisposing causes were injuries sustained in roadwork and construction activities, both related to root damage and soil disturbance. The principal direct causes were recent gradual decline and abrupt demise due to typhoon breakage. Three pairs of contributing variables registered statistically significant associations (chi(2) test), namely predisposing cause versus direct cause, tree growth form versus direct cause, and survey period versus direct cause. Principal component analysis identified three factors that explained 70% of the variance, namely tree form, tree stature, and growth environment. The main reasons for the high mortality were explored. The possible applications of the findings to improve tree protection and management were discussed in relation to the overall planning for meritorious greenery and green space especially in compact cities.
Low BAX protein expression correlates with disease recurrence in preoperatively irradiated rectal carcinoma.	To determine the prognostic impact of BAX in correlation to its upstream effector p53 as well as clinicopathologic variables and patient outcome in preoperatively irradiated rectal carcinoma.
Epidermoid anal cancer: a review of a population-based series of 308 consecutive patients treated according to prospective protocols.	The primary therapy in epidermoid anal cancer is radiotherapy, generally with chemotherapy. The use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been infrequently reported in the literature. This study presents results from a large population-based series and provides comparisons between different treatments.
The role of radiotherapy in the treatment of malignant salivary gland tumors.	We analyzed the role of primary and postoperative low linear energy transfer radiotherapy in 538 patients treated for salivary gland cancer in centers of the Dutch Head and Neck Oncology Cooperative Group, in search for prognostic factors and dose response.
Malignant parotid tumors: presentation, clinical/pathologic prognostic factors, and treatment outcomes.	To determine the important clinical/pathologic prognostic factors and optimal treatment of malignant parotid tumors.
Assessing spatial and nonspatial factors for healthcare access: towards an integrated approach to defining health professional shortage areas.	This research considers both spatial and nonspatial factors in examining accessibility to primary healthcare in Illinois. Spatial access emphasizes the importance of geographic barrier between consumer and provider, and nonspatial factors include nongeographic barriers or facilitators such as age, sex, ethnicity, income, social class, education and language ability. The population and socioeconomic data are from the 2000 Census, and the primary care physician data for the same year are provided by the American Medical Association. First, a two-step floating catchment area method implemented in Geographic Information Systems is used to measure spatial accessibility based on travel time. Secondly, the factor analysis method is used to group various sociodemographic variables into three factors: (1) socioeconomic disadvantages, (2) sociocultural barriers and (3) high healthcare needs. Finally, spatial and nonspatial factors are integrated to identify areas with poor access to primary healthcare. The research is intended to develop an integrated approach for defining Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSA) that may help the US Department of Health and Human Services and state health departments improve HPSA designation.
Global effects on gene expression in fission yeast by silencing and RNA interference machineries.	Histone modifications influence gene expression in complex ways. The RNA interference (RNAi) machinery can repress transcription by recruiting histone-modifying enzymes to chromatin, although it is not clear whether this is a general mechanism for gene silencing or whether it requires repeated sequences such as long terminal repeats (LTRs). We analyzed the global effects of the Clr3 and Clr6 histone deacetylases, the Clr4 methyltransferase, the zinc finger protein Clr1, and the RNAi proteins Dicer, RdRP, and Argonaute on the transcriptome of Schizosaccharomyces pombe (fission yeast). The clr mutants derepressed similar subsets of genes, many of which also became transcriptionally activated in cells that were exposed to environmental stresses such as nitrogen starvation. Many genes that were repressed by the Clr proteins clustered in extended regions close to the telomeres. Surprisingly few genes were repressed by both the silencing and RNAi machineries, with transcripts from centromeric repeats and Tf2 retrotransposons being notable exceptions. We found no correlation between repression by RNAi and proximity to LTRs, and the wtf family of repeated sequences seems to be repressed by histone deacetylation independent of RNAi. Our data indicate that the RNAi and Clr proteins show only a limited functional overlap and that the Clr proteins play more global roles in gene silencing.
Meconium induced IL-8 production and intratracheal albumin alleviated lung injury in newborn pigs.	We have recently shown that albumin added to meconium before intratracheal instillation in newborn pigs limits detrimental effect on the lungs and reduces increase of IL-8. The aim of this study was to test the effect of albumin instillation as rescue treatment in meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). MAS was induced in hypoxic piglets by lung instillation of meconium (MAS I = 675 mg/kg, n=12; MAS II=540 mg/kg, n=14). Morbidity and mortality differed (MAS I, dead=7/12; MAS II, dead=5/14). MAS groups were randomized to postmeconium instillation of either bovine albumin (30%, 1.4 mL/kg; MAS I, n=6; MAS II, n=7) or isotonic saline (9 mg/mL, 1.4 mL/kg; MAS I, n=6; MAS II, n=7). The controls (n=4) were tested by sequential instillation of saline (9 mg/mL, 5 mL/kg) and albumin (30%, 1.4 mL/kg). Lung function and gas exchange deteriorated significantly after instillation of meconium [oxygenation index (OI): MAS I, +814%; MAS II, +386%; ventilation index (VI): MAS I, +256%; MAS II, +162%; compliance: MAS I, -53%; MAS II, -44%]. Increases of tracheal IL-8 correlated to deterioration of lung function were 10- (MAS I) and 5-fold (MAS II) (p <0.001). Lung compliance was higher in albumin instillation versus saline instillation (MAS I, p=0.008; MAS II, p=0.002). Albumin did not influence intergroup differences in IL-8, hemodynamics, OI, or VI. MAS-induced IL-8 increases correlated with deterioration of lung function (OI, VI, and compliance). Rescue treatment with albumin in meconium aspiration improved lung compliance in piglets and may represent a new therapeutic approach to MAS.
General psychopathology is more important for executive functioning than diagnosis.	Impaired executive functioning (EF) has often been reported in patients with major depression or schizophrenia. We hypothesize that the variance in EF is more affected by level of general psychopathology than by diagnosis.
Structured assessment of current mental state in clinical practice: an international study of the reliability and validity of the Current Psychiatric State interview, CPS-50.	To develop a reliable standardized assessment of psychiatric symptoms for use in clinical practice.
Human movement analysis using stereophotogrammetry. Part 1: theoretical background.	This paper sets the stage for a series of reviews dealing with the problems associated with the reconstruction and analysis of in vivo skeletal system kinematics using optoelectronic stereophotogrammetric data. Instantaneous bone position and orientation and joint kinematic variable estimations are addressed in the framework of rigid body mechanics. The conceptual background to these exercises is discussed. Focus is placed on the experimental and analytical problem of merging the information relative to movement and that relative to the morphology of the anatomical body parts of interest. The various global and local frames that may be used in this context are defined. Common anatomical and mathematical conventions that can be used to describe joint kinematics are illustrated in a comparative fashion. The authors believe that an effort to systematize the different theoretical and experimental approaches to the problems involved and related nomenclatures, as currently reported in the literature, is needed to facilitate data and knowledge sharing, and to provide renewed momentum for the advancement of human movement analysis.
Vergence target selection in rhesus monkeys: behavior and modeling.	Previous studies have shown that a LATER (Linear Approach to Threshold with Ergodic Rate) race model can be used to explain saccadic target selection and latencies. The goal of the present study was to determine whether a comparable model could be applied to the underlying decision-making processes involved in target selection for transient vergence eye movements in rhesus monkeys. Luminance contrast of near and far Gabor pair stimuli were manipulated in a forced-choice paradigm to investigate their influence on vergence target selection. The distributions of responses and their latencies were evaluated by cumulative recinormal and reciprobit plots. With all targets set to 20% luminance contrast, animals showed a bias for the divergent target. Increasing luminance contrast of the near Gabor pair, while holding the far Gabor at the base contrast, resulted in increasing selection of the convergent target. This change in bias from divergent to convergent target selection correlated with decreases in convergent latency and increases in divergent latency. Monte Carlo simulations were used to estimate the internal rates of the divergent and convergent decision-making processes which, given a fixed threshold, would result in the observed distributions of vergence responses and their latencies. Statistical tests show that the LATER race model can predict observed values, and strongly suggests that competition between internal convergent and divergent target selection processes determines relative frequencies and latencies of these movements.
Parent-reported periodic limb movement, sleep disordered breathing, bedtime resistance behaviors, and ADHD.	The purpose of this study was to compare the relative strength of association between symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) with sleep disordered breathing (SDB), periodic limb movement disorder (PLMD), and bedtime resistance behaviors (BRBs). The Pediatric Sleep Questionnaire was completed by parents of 283 children. Scales were derived to indicate risk for specific sleep disorders, then correlated with symptoms of ADHD. Strong independent interrelationships between symptoms of PLMD and symptoms of ADHD emerged, with potential additional contributions by bedtime resistance. These interrelationships remained after controlling for age, SDB, sleepiness, or BRBs. These data suggest ADHD symptoms may be especially related to PLMD but that insufficient sleep duration secondary to bedtime resistance and noncompliance may make an independent contribution.
Factors affecting spiking related to sleep and wake states in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE).	The aim of the study was to investigate the influence of different clinical factors on spiking during sleep and wakefulness in temporal lobe epilepsy. The study included 38 temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients who underwent long-term electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring. In addition to traditional sleep scoring, waking was subdivided into eyes opened (WEO) and eyes closed (WEC) states. The following spike measures were investigated: spiking rates for each state, mean spike rate, spiking stability across wake and sleep states and relative spike density for each state. These measures were investigated according to clinical variables, such as age, age at epilepsy onset, duration of epilepsy, seizure frequency, the presence of secondarily generalised tonic-clonic (SGTC) seizures and the data on epileptogenic lesions based on MRI. Spiking rates during most states and spiking stability showed a significant positive correlation with epilepsy duration. Relative spike density during sleep stage NREM3,4 significantly increased with age at epilepsy onset. Relative spike density during WEC was significantly higher in the presence of hippocampal sclerosis (HS). Spiking rate during REM was significantly higher if a patient had SGTC seizures. Our data provide evidence that different aspects of spiking are associated with different aspects of TLE. We suggest that spike behaviour analysis offer new aspects both for diagnosis and research.
Performance decrements resulting from illness in the workplace: the effect of headaches.	Studies on the impact of illness on work productivity are important to rationally allocate healthcare resources and to design programs to mitigate these effects. This investigation was conducted to develop and apply daily measures of illness episodes, and to collect subjective and objective data on work performance impacts. Medical bill reviewers completed daily responses to a questionnaire about headache manifestations, severity, and speed of work using interactive voice response (IVR). Of 134 eligible enrolled subjects, 117 (86%) provided at least 30 daily reports over 3 months. Their responses were matched to difficulty-adjusted objective measures: daily output, time on the system, and productivity. Respondents were clinically classified as migraineurs (n = 56), other headache disorders (n = 47), or having no headache disorder (n = 14). Each headache episode was classified as a migraine or nonmigraine headache based on reported manifestations.
Genetic and phenotypic relationships between individual subcutaneous backfat layers and percentage of longissimus intramuscular fat in Duroc swine.	Progeny (n = 589) of randomly mated Duroc pigs were used to determine the genetic and phenotypic relationships between individual s.c. backfat layers and i.m. fat percent (IMF) of the longissimus. Five days before slaughter, cross-sectional ultrasound images were collected at the 10th rib by a National Swine Improvement Federation-certified ultrasound technician using an ultrasound machine (Aloka 500 SSD) fitted with a 12-cm linear array transducer. Off-midline backfat (SBF) and loin muscle area (SLMA) were measured. Individual s.c. backfat layers were measured at the same location: outer (OBF), middle (MBF), and inner (IBF). Off-midline backfat (CBF) and loin muscle area (CLMA) were measured on the carcass 24 h postmortem. A slice from the 10th rib of the loin muscle was obtained for determination of IMF. Heritability estimates and genetic correlations were calculated fitting all possible two-trait animal models in MATVEC (Wang et al., 2003). The heritabilities for OBF, MBF, IBF, CBF, SBF, and IMF were 0.63, 0.45, 0.53, 0.48, 0.44, and 0.69, respectively. The genetic correlations of OBF, MBF, and IBF with IMF were 0.36, 0.16, and 0.28, respectively, and the genetic correlations of CBF and SBF with IMF were 0.25 and 0.27, respectively. Genetic correlations between OBF and MBF, OBF and IBF, and MBF and IBF were 0.43, 0.45, and 0.67, respectively. Results demonstrate that individual backfat layers are highly heritable, of similar magnitude to total backfat, and have similar genetic correlations with IMF. Individual backfat layers could become candidate traits for implementation into a multiple-trait genetic evaluation to improve IMF, while minimizing the detrimental effect on total backfat depth.
Genetic parameters for carcass composition and pork quality estimated in a commercial production chain.	Breeding goals in pigs are subject to change and are directed much more toward retail carcass yield and meat quality because of the high economic value of these traits. The objective of this study was to estimate genetic parameters of growth, carcass, and meat quality traits. Carcass components included ham and loin weights as primal cuts, which were further dissected into boneless subprimal cuts. Meat quality traits included pH, drip loss, purge, firmness, and color and marbling of both ham and loin. Phenotypic measurements were collected on a commercial crossbred pig population (n = 1,855). Genetic parameters were estimated using REML procedures applied to a bivariate animal model. Heritability estimates for carcass traits varied from 0.29 to 0.51, with 0.39 and 0.51 for the boneless subprimals of ham and loin, respectively. Heritability estimates for meat quality traits ranged from 0.08 to 0.28, with low estimates for the water holding capacity traits and higher values for the color traits: Minolta b*(0.14), L* (0.15), a* (0.24), and Japanese color scale (0.25). Heritability estimates differed for marbling of ham (0.14) and loin (0.31). Neither backfat nor ADG was correlated with loin depth (r(g) = 0.0), and their mutual genetic correlation was 0.27. Loin primal was moderately correlated with ham primal (r(g) = 0.31) and more strongly correlated with boneless ham (r(g) = 0.58). Backfat was negatively correlated with (sub)primal cut values. Average daily gain was unfavorably correlated with subprimals and with most meat quality characteristics measured. Genetic correlations among the color measurements and water-holding capacity traits were high (average r(g) = 0.70), except for Minolta a* (average r(g) = 0.17). The estimated genetic parameters indicate that meat quality and valuable cut yields can be improved by genetic selection. The estimated genetic parameters make it possible to predict the response to selection on performance, carcass, and meat quality traits and to design an effective breeding strategy fitting pricing systems based on retail carcass and quality characteristics.
Genetic parameters of fertility in two lines of rabbits with different reproductive potential.	A Bayesian analysis with a threshold model was performed for fertility defined as a binary trait (1 = successful mating, 0 = unsuccessful mating) in two populations of rabbits of different reproductive potential and different genetic origin: Line P selected for litter size and Line C selected for growth rate. There were 20,793 records of natural mating (86.2% successful) in Line C between 1983 and 2003, and 17,548 records (80.5% successful) in Line P, between 1992 and 2003. Data related to 5,388 and 3,848 females and 1,021 and 685 males in Lines C and P, respectively. The pedigree included 6,409 and 4,533 individuals in Lines C and P, respectively. The binary response was modeled under a probit approach. The model for the latent variable included male and female additive genetic effects, male and female permanent environmental effects, and the year-season and physiological status of the female (nulliparous, multiparous lactating, or multiparous nonlactating) as systematic effects. Means (standard deviation in parentheses) of the estimated marginal posterior distribution (EMPD) of male heritability were 0.013 (0.006) and 0.010 (0.008) in Lines C and P, respectively, and those of EMPD of female heritability were 0.056 (0.013) and 0.062 (0.018) in Lines C and P, respectively. Means of the EMPD of the proportion of the phenotypic variance due to environmental male and female effects were, respectively, 0.031 (0.007) and 0.128 (0.018) in Line C and 0.053 (0.010) and 0.231 (0.024) in Line P. Means (standard deviations in parentheses) of the EMPD of genetic correlation between male and female fertility were 0.733 (0.197) in Line C and 0.434 (0.381) in Line P. The posterior distribution of genetic correlations presents a huge dispersion, and the estimates should be taken with caution because of the almost negligible estimate of the male genetic component. Results indicate that little genetic variation exists for female fertility, and practically none for male fertility. It would, therefore, be possible to improve reproductive performance by including female fertility in a breeding program, but response to selection would be very small.
Accuracy of subspace mapping of spatiotemporal frequency domain visual receptive fields.	Orientation and spatial frequency selectivities are fundamental properties of cells in the early visual cortex. Although they are customarily tested with drifting sinusoidal gratings, a recently developed subspace reverse correlation method may be a better replacement for obtaining a selectivity map in a joint orientation and spatial frequency domain at higher resolution efficiently. These two methods are examined for their accuracy and data compatibility for cells in areas 17 and 18 of anesthetized and paralyzed cats. Peaks and bandwidths of tuning curves from these two methods are highly correlated. However, spatial frequency bandwidths obtained by reverse correlation tend to be slightly narrower for the subspace reverse correlation than those from the drifting grating tests. Consistency between the two methods is improved if the entire duration of data containing signal are taken into account for the subspace reverse correlation rather than using the map only at the optimal correlation delay. Examination of convergence of the subspace mapping process shows that reliable 2-day profiles can be obtained within 5-10 min. for the majority of cells. Temporal dynamics of tuning properties are also examined more directly with the subspace mapping than with the drifting gratings. For many cells, the optimal spatial frequency shifts substantially, measured as a fraction of tuning bandwidth, over the time course of response. In comparison, the optimal orientation remains highly stable throughout the duration of response. Overall, these results suggest that the subspace reverse correlation is a better substitute for the conventional method.
Relative responsiveness of condition specific and generic health status measures in juvenile idiopathic arthritis.	To compare the relative responsiveness of condition specific measures with that of a generic health status instrument for outcome assessment of intra-articular corticosteroid (IAC) injection in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).
Using GO-PseAA predictor to identify membrane proteins and their types.	Cell membranes are crucial to the life of a cell. Although the basic structure of biological membrane is provided by the lipid bilayer, most of the specific functions are carried out by membrane proteins. Knowledge of membrane protein type often offers important clues toward determining the function of an uncharacterized protein. Therefore, predicting the type of a membrane protein from its primary sequence, or even just identifying whether the uncharacterized protein belongs to a membrane protein or not, is an important and challenging problem in bioinformatics and proteomics. To deal with these problems, the GO-PseAA predictor is introduced that is operated in a hybridization space by combining the gene ontology and pseudo amino acid composition. Meanwhile, to test the prediction quality, a dataset was constructed that contains 6476 non-membrane proteins and 5122 membrane proteins classified into five different types. To avoid redundancy and bias, none of the proteins included has > or = 40% sequence identity to any other. It has been observed that the overall success rate by the jackknife cross-validation test in identifying non-membrane proteins and membrane proteins was 94.76%, and that in identifying the five membrane protein types was 95.84%. The high success rates suggest that the GO-PseAA predictor can catch the core feature of the statistical samples concerned and may become an automated high throughput toll in molecular and cell biology.
Low-temperature FTIR spectra and hydrogen bonds in polycrystalline adenosine and uridine.	FTIR spectra of polycrystalline samples of adenosine and uridine, pure and containing small (<10%) quantity of N(O)H or N(O)D groups, were measured in KBr pellets from 4000 to 400 cm(-1) at temperatures from 300 to 20 K. For the first time, the bands of narrow isotopically decoupled proton stretching vibration nu1 mode of NH- and OH- groups were found and assigned to ordered hydrogen bonds according to crystal structural data for both nucleosides. The FTIR adenosine spectra in the out-of-plane bending proton nu4 mode range (lower than 1000 cm(-1)) of N(O)H groups revealed at low temperature at least twice more bands, than in the nu1 range, which are influenced by isotopic exchange and (or) cooling. Almost all of them have their counterparts in the N(O)D substance spectrum with an isotopic frequency ratio of 1.30-1.40. These bands were assigned to the differently H-bound disordered NH and OH protons, which could not be seen with crystal structural methods. The energy and length of different H-bonds were estimated from peak positions of both mode bands (as the red shift of nu1 or blue shift of nu4 relatively free molecules) with well-established empirical correlations between spectral, thermodynamic and structural parameters of hydrogen bonds. The results were compared with independent experimental data.
Use of fish liver PLHC-1 cells and zebrafish embryos in cytotoxicity assays.	Heat shock proteins (HSPs) indicate exposure to cellular stress and adverse cellular effects, thus serving as biomarkers of these effects. The highly conserved Hsp70 proteins are expressed under proteotoxic conditions, whereas small HSPs are expressed in response to stressors acting on the cytoskeleton and cell signaling pathways. Poeciliopsis lucida hepatocellular carcinoma line 1 (PLHC-1) cells have been used extensively for studying effects of cytotoxicity. A number of assays have been developed to examine DNA levels, protein levels, growth rate, morphological changes, and viability. The boundary between sub-lethal and lethal effects of particular stressors has been determined. The methodology and analytical framework for these techniques along with sample assays using cadmium stressed PLHC-1 cells are described. A range of methodologies have been developed in the past decade that allow the analysis and interpretation of gene expression and function in vivo in zebrafish embryos, and many of these are now being applied to the development of embryotoxicity assays. Here we provide the theoretical background and methodology for utilizing Hsp70 expression as an indicator of toxicity in the zebrafish embryo. Hsp70 expression is activated in a tissue-specific manner in zebrafish larvae following exposure to a number of different toxicants, including cadmium. This has allowed the development of an hsp70/eGFP reporter gene system in stable transgenic zebrafish that serves as a reliable yet extremely quick indicator of cell-specific toxicity in the context of the multicellular, living embryo.
Diagnostic algorithm for chronic hepatitis C virus infection: role of the new HCV-core antigen assay.	The diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C virus infection is based on nucleic acid testing (NAT) for HCV-RNA. We evaluated whether total HCV core antigen testing could be a substitute for NAT testing.
IL-1beta in bronchial lavage fluid is a non-invasive marker that predicts the viability of the pulmonary graft from the non-heart-beating donor.	Viability testing of the pulmonary graft retrieved from the non-heart-beating donor (NHBD) is mandatory for successful outcome after lung transplantation. Functional assessment by ex vivo reperfusion, however, remains a cumbersome procedure. In this study, therefore, we wanted to investigate the possible value of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) measured in bronchial lavage fluid (BLF) in predicting functional outcome of the pulmonary graft after reperfusion.
Patient-specific dosimetry in predicting renal toxicity with (90)Y-DOTATOC: relevance of kidney volume and dose rate in finding a dose-effect relationship.	Nephrotoxicity is the major limiting factor during therapy with the radiolabeled somatostatin analog (90)Y-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-N,N',N'',N'''-tetraacetic acid (DOTA)-d-Phe(1)-Tyr(3)-octreotide (DOTATOC). Pretherapeutic assessment of kidney absorbed dose could help to minimize the risk of renal toxicity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the contribution of patient-specific adjustments to the standard dosimetric models, such as the renal volume and dose rate, for estimating renal absorbed dose during therapy with (90)Y-DOTATOC. In particular, we investigated the correlation between dose estimates and effect on renal function after therapy.
Sonographic findings in the diagnostic course of vascular access for hemodialysis]	Hemodialysis and related procedures require a reliable vascular access and the Brescia-Cimino shunt of the nondominant forearm has proven to be its most important form. Today, color Doppler sonography is regarded as the main method in the diagnosis of vascular access dysfunction. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of the Resistive Index (RI) of the fistula's feeding artery on the fistula's blood flow.
Fatigue in patients with lupus is not associated with disturbances in cerebral blood flow as detected by SPECT.	Fatigue is a common complaint in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We investigated whether focal or general disturbances of cerebral blood flow (CBF), as assessed by SPECT, were associated with the presence of fatigue in an unselected group of SLE patients.
Differential progression of proprioceptive and visual information processing deficits in Parkinson's disease.	Indirect evidence suggests that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have deficits not only in motor performance, but also in the processing of sensory information. We investigated the role of sensory information processing in PD patients with a broad range of disease severities and in a group of age-matched controls. Subjects were tested in two conditions: pointing to a remembered visual target in complete darkness (DARK) and in the presence of an illuminated frame with a light attached to the index finger (FRAME). Differences in pointing errors in these two conditions reflect the effect of visual feedback on pointing. PD patients showed significantly larger constant and variable errors than controls in the DARK and FRAME condition. The difference of the variable error in the FRAME and DARK condition decreased as a function of the severity of PD. This indicates that any deficits in the processing of proprioceptive information occur already at very mild symptoms of PD, and that deficits in the use of visual feedback develop progressively in later stages of the disease. These results provide a tool for early diagnosis of PD and shed new light on the functional role of the brain structures that are affected in PD.
A single-layer, continuous, hand-sewn method for esophageal anastomosis: prospective evaluation in 218 patients.	A 1-layer, continuous technique for esophageal anastomosis after esophagectomy has been in routine use at the University of Hong Kong Medical Centre since 1996. This study aims to document the results of this method and examine factors that may predispose patients to complications associated with esophageal anastomosis.
Early and late outcome of skeletonised bilateral internal mammary arteries anastomosed to the left coronary system.	To investigate in a retrospective study the technical aspects of using the in situ bilateral internal mammary arteries (IMAs), with the right IMA (RIMA) used for revascularisation of the circumflex system, and to evaluate early and late outcome.
Allocating and scheduling operating room time]	During the past decade many scientific advances have been made concerning the development of methodologies to maximize efficiency of surgical facilities through allocating and scheduling of operating rooms. In this article such a methodology is described. Using the analysis of historical data of surgical activity in a facility, future demand is predicted and planned. Part of the methodology includes principles and rules needed for the daily organization and operative management of surgical facilities. They are also derived from the same science and therefore the basis for rational and structured decision making. Medical aspects such as patient safety and free choice of day for surgery have higher priority than the economic goal of maximizing operating room efficiency.
Referrer satisfaction as a quality criterion: developing an questionnaire for measuring the quality of services provided by a radiology department]	To develop a questionnaire for measuring referring physician satisfaction and to conduct a pilot study in which this questionnaire is given to all physicians referring patients to the authors' radiology department.
The effects of maternal depression and parental conflict on children's peer play.	Little is known about the relative effects of exposure to postnatal depression and parental conflict on the social functioning of school-aged children. This is, in part, because of a lack of specificity in the measurement of child and parental behaviour and a reliance on children's reports of their hypothetical responses to conflict in play.
Cerebral O2 supply thresholds for the preservation of electrocortical brain activity during hypotension in near-term-born lambs.	The fetal brain develops rapidly during the last trimester of pregnancy. Therefore, the brain of infants who are born preterm is vulnerable to changes in oxygen and nutrient supply in the neonatal period. The objective was to determine the effect of gestational age (GA) on the cerebral O2 supply threshold level for preservation of brain function during hypotension in near-term-born lambs. Lambs were delivered at 141 or 127 d of gestation. Hypotension was induced by stepwise withdrawal of blood. Mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) baseline levels were 63.2 (6.4) in 141-d and 54.4 (15.5) mm Hg in 127-d lambs. The MABP threshold below which MABP and blood flow in the left carotid artery were linearly related was 36.1 (13.1) mm Hg in 141-d lambs. In 127-d lambs, MABP and blood flow in the left carotid artery were linearly related over the whole range of recorded MABP values. Electrocortical brain activity (ECBA) was used as a measure of brain function. Thresholds of MABP for maintenance of ECBA were reached at, respectively, 31.6% (4.9%) of baseline in 141-d and 61.9% (13.0%) of baseline MABP in 127-d lambs. However, thresholds of cerebral O2 supply for maintenance of ECBA were similar in both GA groups. We conclude that thresholds of cerebral O2 supply for maintenance of brain cell function are independent of GA but are reached at higher MABP levels in 127-d than in 141-d lambs and therefore places the sick preterm infant easily at risk for ischemic cerebral injury.
methyl-3H]Choline incorporation into MCF7 tumour cells: correlation with proliferation	The aim of the study was to investigate the intracellular location of [methyl-(3)H]choline in MCF7 tumour cells and to determine the relationship between [methyl-(3)H]choline incorporation and proliferation.
G protein polymorphisms in hypertension, atherosclerosis, and diabetes.	A common C825T polymorphism in the gene GNB3, which encodes the beta 3 subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins, was identified in cell lines from patients with hypertension. The 825T allele is associated with increased intracellular signal transduction. Many population-based and case-control studies in different ethnicities have investigated an association between this polymorphism and hypertension, obesity, and atherosclerosis. A critical assessment of published studies suggests that 825T allele carriers have an increased risk for hypertension combined with features of the metabolic syndrome, such as dyslipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, insulin resistance, and obesity. It is anticipated that this polymorphism will be used in clinical practice to better characterize hypertension and for individualized treatment regimens.
Metabolic syndrome: a clinical and molecular perspective.	The metabolic syndrome is a cluster of interrelated common clinical disorders, including obesity, insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, hypertension, and dyslipidemia (hypertriglyceridemia and low HDL cholesterol levels). According to recently defined criteria, the metabolic syndrome is prevalent and is associated with a greater risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease than any of its individual components. Primary defects in energy balance that produce obesity (and visceral adiposity in particular) are sufficient to drive all aspects of the syndrome. Increased free fatty acids and lipid accumulation in certain organs are mediators of insulin resistance. Obesity also leads to a proinflammatory and prothrombotic state that potentiates atherosclerosis. Pathways leading directly from adiposity to the genesis of dyslipidemia and hypertension have been elucidated. Recent knowledge implies a role for fat-derived "adipokines," including TNF alpha and adiponectin, as pathogenic contributors or protective factors. Current therapies include diet and exercise as well as agents indicated for the treatment of individual components of the syndrome. Future therapies may accrue from the aggressive pursuit of newer molecular drug targets that have the potential to prevent or treat multiple aspects of the metabolic syndrome.
Gene-environment interactions in asthma and other respiratory diseases.	It is generally agreed that many lung diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have polygenic inheritance, and that the association of a specific genotype or genotypes with the disease is likely to vary between populations. Furthermore, it is recognized that the etiology of many lung diseases involves a complex interplay between genetic background and exposure to multiple environmental stimuli, and understanding the mechanisms through which genes and environment interact represents a major challenge for pulmonary researchers. We discuss experimental approaches and challenges that must be overcome to identify disease genes for asthma, COPD and chronic bronchitis, and occupational lung diseases. In particular, common polymorphisms in CD14, glutathione S-transferase, and tumor necrosis factor alpha have been found to be important in gene-environment interaction and asthma pathogenesis. An understanding of gene-environment interactions in complex lung diseases is essential to the development of new strategies for lung disease prevention and treatment.
Grief experiences of parents whose children suffer from mental illness.	To examine the grief experience of parents of adult children with a mental illness and its relationship to parental health and well-being and parent child attachment and affective relationship.
Non-suicidal deaths following hospital-treated self-poisoning.	To quantify the non-suicidal mortality subsequent to hospital treated self-poisoning, and to identify risk factors for non-suicidal death.
Dark matter in the genome: evidence of widespread transcription detected by microarray tiling experiments.	Microarrays provide the opportunity to measure transcription from regions of the genome without bias towards the location of known genes. This technology thus offers an important source of genomic sequence annotation that is complementary to cDNA sequencing and computational gene-finding methods. Recent "tiling" microarray experiments that assay transcription at regular intervals throughout the genome have shown evidence of large amounts of transcription outside the boundaries of known genes. This transcription is observed in polyadenylated RNA samples and appears to be derived from intergenic regions, from introns of known genes and from sequences antisense to known transcripts. In this article, we discuss different explanations for this phenomenon.
A reductionist's systems biology: opinion.	To tackle the complexity inherent in understanding large networks of interacting biomolecules, systems biology emphasizes cybernetic and systems theoretical approaches. The resulting focus on organization independent of physical manifestation threatens to throw away all that has been learned from molecular studies and ignores the reality that biologists are drawn together more by a shared interest in mechanism and structure than anything else. The field of reaction engineering suggests a reductionist approach to systems biology that fits easily within existing molecular paradigms but that can nonetheless be integrated into expansive physiological perspectives through the use of multi-scale modeling.
Apparent diffusion coefficients in spinal cord transplants and surrounding white matter correlate with degree of axonal dieback after injury in rats.	Abnormal apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values in injured spinal cord white matter and fibroblast transplants have been shown to correspond with qualitative histologic findings of axonal loss or regeneration. We proposed that ADC values would correlate with quantitative axonal tracing in the transected rubrospinal tract (RST).
MR venography in the pediatric patient.	Little is known about age-related changes in posterior fossa venous anatomy on 2D time-of-flight MR venography (MRV) or about artifacts that limit its accuracy in diagnosing venous occlusive disease. We evaluated pediatric appearances of posterior fossa venous drainage.
Sonographic NASCET index: a new doppler parameter for assessment of internal carotid artery stenosis.	Established Doppler parameters for carotid stenosis assessment do not reflect North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET)-style methodology. We derived a Doppler parameter, termed sonographic NASCET index (SNI), and hypothesized that the SNI would provide greater angiographic correlation and better accuracy in predicting stenosis of 70% or greater than that of currently used peak systolic velocity (PSV) measurements.
Relationship between transcranial Doppler and CT data in acute intracerebral hemorrhage.	It would be useful to have a noninvasive test for correlation with CT findings in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). We determined which transcranial Doppler (TCD) variables are related to which CT data in patients with ICH.
Local tissue damage assessed with statistical mapping analysis of brain magnetization transfer ratio: relationship with functional status of patients in the earliest stage of multiple sclerosis.	In the early stage of Multiple Sclerosis (MS), conventional MR imaging parameters such as T2 lesion load fail to explain the clinical status of patients. In the present work, we aimed to determine the ability of magnification transfer imaging to better reflect the relationship between local tissue damage and functional status of MS patients.
Correlation between lipophilicity and triptan outcomes.	It has been suggested that triptans achieving higher central nervous system (CNS) levels should have an advantage in efficacy, if central actions are important. Objective.-Our aim was to correlate the efficacy and tolerability results of triptans with their lipophilicity.
Evaluation of cholinergic markers in Alzheimer's disease and in a model of cholinergic deficit.	Cognitive deficits in neuropsychiatric disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), have been closely related to cholinergic deficits. We have compared different markers of cholinergic function to assess the best biomarker of cognitive deficits associated to cholinergic hypoactivity. In post-mortem frontal cortex from AD patients, acetylcholine (ACh) levels, cholinacetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity were all reduced compared to controls. Both ChAT and AChE activity showed a significant correlation with cognitive deficits. In the frontal cortex of rats with a selective cholinergic lesion, all cholinergic parameters measured (ACh levels, ChAT and AChE activities, "in vitro" and "in vivo" basal ACh release) were significantly reduced. AChE activity was associated to ChAT activity, and even more, to "in vivo" and "in vitro" basal ACh release. Quantification of AChE activity is performed by an easy and cheap method and therefore, these results suggest that determination of AChE activity may be used as an effective first step method to evaluate cholinergic deficits.
A comparison of treatment combinations with and without radiotherapy for hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein and/or inferior vena cava tumor thrombus.	To evaluate the potential role of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in the treatment of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who have portal vein (PV) and/or inferior vena cava (IVC) tumor thrombi.
Efficacy of inpatient rehabilitation for chronic back pain in Germany: update of a systematic review]	The ninth book of the German social code, SGB IX, has intensified questions on the effectiveness and usefulness of medical rehabilitation, a multimodal multidisciplinary team care model, especially but not exclusively for chronic back pain. In 2002 back pain was the reported leading cause for 29 % of all medical and other rehabilitative services provided by German statutory pension funds. A previous systematic review of all available German studies (January 1980 to June 2001) analysed the effectiveness of inpatient rehabilitation for chronic back pain. The present report provides an update and critical appraisal of the review.
Guideline-based consultation to prevent anticoagulant-related bleeding. A randomized, controlled trial in a teaching hospital.	To test the efficacy of consultation designed to prevent anticoagulant-related bleeding.
DNA cytophotometry and prognosis in ovarian tumors of borderline malignancy. A clinicomorphologic study of 80 cases.	Surgical specimens of 80 ovarian tumors of borderline malignancy (OTBM) were investigated by scanning DNA cytophotometry. Diploid or euploid DNA histograms were found for 21 tumors, whereas 59 OTBM showed noneuploid or aneuploid DNA patterns. All patients were followed-up after surgery for at least 3 years (mean observation period, 6.7 years). Follow-up showed 11 cases of recurrent disease and 6 deaths. DNA findings and several other morphologic and clinical details (including patient age, histologic type and stage of disease, and extent of therapy) were correlated to the postoperative course. Statistical analyses disclosed that, of these parameters, only DNA content significantly affected prognosis. Recurrences and deaths resulting from tumor exclusively were observed among patients with noneuploid or aneuploid OTBM, whereas none of the diploid or euploid tumors recurred (P less than 0.05). DNA cytophotometry thus might be regarded as an effective complementary means to assess the prognosis of individual OTBM cases.
Human mediotemporal EEG characteristics during propofol anesthesia.	Evidence for a response-control-related kind of declarative memory during deep propofol anesthesia has recently been reported. Connectivity within the mediotemporal lobe (MTL), and in particular rhinal-hippocampal synchronization within the gamma band, has been shown to be crucial for declarative memory formation. Thus, we analyzed EEG recordings obtained from the scalp, as well as directly from within the hippocampus and from the anterior parahippocampal gyrus, which is covered by rhinal cortex, in patients with unilateral temporal lobe epilepsy during propofol anesthesia, which preceded electrode explantation. For the gamma band a power decrease starting with induction of anesthesia was observed at scalp position Cz, but a power increase was detected at MTL locations. In contrast to prior results for sleep recordings, rhinal-hippocampal coherence did not decrease within the gamma band at deeper levels of anesthesia. These findings may represent an indirect electrophysiological correlate of partially intact declarative memory formation during deep propofol sedation. Furthermore, we investigated how well the plasma propofol level, as well as different stages of anesthesia including the burst suppression phase, could be monitored by different spectral as well as by nonlinear EEG measures. We observed that conventional spectral power measures, most prominently those recorded from mediotemporal locations, are most closely correlated with the plasma propofol level, whereas different stages of anesthesia can be distinguished best by nonconventional spectral as well as nonlinear measures.
Patient characteristics and clinical management of patients with shoulder pain in U.S. primary care settings: secondary data analysis of the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey.	Although shoulder pain is a commonly encountered problem in primary care, there are few studies examining its presenting characteristics and clinical management in this setting.
The Achilles Functional Index.	The literature regarding the management of spontaneous rupture of the Achilles tendon is controversial and confusing. The relative infrequency of the condition in any one center prohibits the completion of well-designed clinical studies. Many of the disputes could be addressed and innovations tested if an appropriate animal model were available. We present a method for evaluating Achilles tendon function from measurements of the prints, preserved in bromphenol-blue-impregnated photocopying paper, of the hindfeet of walking rats. The stimulus for this study was derived from de Medinaceli's method for assessing the functional condition of rat sciatic nerves (de Medinaceli L, Freed WJ, Wyatt RJ: An index of the functional condition of rat sciatic nerve based on measurements made from walking tracks. Exp Neurol 77:634-643, 1982). Four variables were measured from these walking tracks, and comparisons between the damaged (experimental) and intact (normal) side were converted to proportional deficits. The relative contribution of each parameter to the overall deficit was determined by multiple linear regression analysis, and the variables were weighted accordingly to obtain an "Achilles Functional Index" (AFI). A sham operation produced no functional deficit, whereas animals subjected to a 0.5-cm midsubstance Achilles tendon defect demonstrated a markedly impaired AFI. Animals with repaired transected Achilles tendons also demonstrated a significant, but less severely impaired AFI. The functional deficit in this repair group returned to control values by postoperative day 15, whereas animals with a defect remained impaired at day 15. Furthermore, an excellent correlation was found between the functional recovery and biomechanical properties (ultimate failure load) of the healing tendon (r = 0.94; p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Correspondence analysis for quantification in electron energy loss spectroscopy and imaging.	Electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) is a technique to investigate the physical properties of material. Using this technique it is possible to detect the presence of a specific element in a specimen. When used in combination with an electron microscope, energy filtered images may be obtained, which in principle may be used to quantify the local element concentration. This involves a process of background correction, conventionally performed assuming a specific parametric behavior of the spectral intensity as a function of electron energy loss. In this article a parameter-free method is described for background correction based on the formalism of correspondence analysis. Such a method may be used in parts of the spectrum where the functional dependence of the spectral intensity is unknown. Use of this method for element detection has been suggested before. This article reports simulation experiments suggesting its suitability for quantitative determination of element distributions and element concentrations.
Pharmacokinetics, anticonvulsant efficacy, and adverse effects of trans-2-en-valproate after acute and chronic administration in amygdala-kindled rats.	The trans isomer of 2-en-valproate (trans-2-en-VPA), an unsaturated metabolite of the clinically established antiepileptic valproate (VPA), was examined in the kindling model of epilepsy. As in the case of VPA, trans-2-en-VPA exerted potent anticonvulsant effects against partial seizures and secondarily generalized clonic seizures in amygdala-kindled rats after i.p. administration of acute doses. The anticonvulsant potency of trans-2-en-VPA appeared to be higher than that of VPA, especially in the case of secondarily generalized seizures. However, as previously reported for effects of valproate in the kindling model, trans-2-en-VPA exerted anticonvulsant effects against kindled seizures only at doses which were associated with motor impairment. Pharmacokinetic experiments with trans-2-en-VPA indicated non-linear kinetics with dose-dependent elimination rate and enterohepatic recirculation. According to the initial rapid decline in plasma concentrations of trans-2-en-VPA, the duration of anticonvulsant action in kindled rats was short-lasting so that an experimental protocol with 3 daily administrations was chosen for chronic experiments with this drug. During chronic treatment of kindled rats with 3 times daily injection of 100 mg/kg trans-2-en-VPA for 2 weeks, there was a marked reduction of anticonvulsant activity during the second week of treatment. This loss of anticonvulsant activity was not due to metabolic tolerance, i.e. reduction of drug levels by increased drug metabolism. Furthermore, additional experiments with altered experimental protocol indicated that the loss of anticonvulsant activity was not due to contingent tolerance, i.e. involvement of learning processes due to too frequent drug testing. However, the size of chronic treatment dose was important for the rate and degree of tolerance development, since an increase of dosage to 150 mg/kg 3 times daily resulted in significant anticonvulsant effects throughout the period of treatment with almost no indication of tolerance. The date indicate that trans-2-en-VPA is as effective as valproate in the kindling model. In view of previously reported experimental evidence that trans-2-en-VPA might have a lower hepatotoxic and teratogenic potential as valproate, the present study substantiates that trans-2-en-VPA might be an interesting alternative to valproate in antiepileptic therapy.
Crossmodal integration in the primate superior colliculus underlying the preparation and initiation of saccadic eye movements.	Saccades to combined audiovisual stimuli often have reduced saccadic reaction times (SRTs) compared with those to unimodal stimuli. Neurons in the intermediate/deep layers of the superior colliculus (dSC) are capable of integrating converging sensory inputs to influence the time to saccade initiation. To identify how neural processing in the dSC contributes to reducing SRTs to audiovisual stimuli, we recorded activity from dSC neurons while monkeys generated saccades to visual or audiovisual stimuli. To evoke crossmodal interactions of varying strength, we used auditory and visual stimuli of different intensities, presented either in spatial alignment or to opposite hemifields. Spatially aligned audiovisual stimuli evoked the shortest SRTs. In the case of low-intensity stimuli, the response to the auditory component of the aligned audiovisual target increased the activity preceding the response to the visual component, accelerating the onset of the visual response and facilitating the generation of shorter-latency saccades. In the case of high-intensity stimuli, the auditory and visual responses occurred much closer together in time and so there was little opportunity for the auditory stimulus to influence previsual activity. Instead, the reduction in SRT for high-intensity, aligned audiovisual stimuli was correlated with increased premotor activity (activity after visual burst but preceding saccade-aligned burst). These data provide a link between changes in neural activity related to stimulus modality with changes in behavior. They further demonstrate how crossmodal interactions are not limited to the initial sensory activity but can also influence premotor activity in the SC.
Effect of physiotherapy on spinal mobility in ankylosing spondylitis.	The efficacy of intensive inpatient physiotherapy was retrospectively analysed in 505 adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Eight different measures of thoracic and spinal mobility were collected from the patients' medical records. Recovery in terms of the following measures was 7 to 37% when results after rehabilitation were compared to those taken before: thoracolumbar flexibility (TLF) 15%, the Schober test 12.4%, occiput to wall distance (OWD) 30.8%, cervical rotation 22.6%, chin to chest distance (CCD) 21.7%, finger to floor distance (FFD) 36.6%, chest expansion (CE) 31.3%, vital capacity (VC) 7.4%. Changes in all measures were statistically significant (p less than 0.001). OWD, CE and FFD showed greatest improvement. The average increase in CE was about 1 cm in both sexes and the average increase in VC200 ml in men and 270 ml in women, which indicates improvement in ventilatory capacity. Mobility in the majority of patients improved, though in 2 to 8% range of motion (ROM) deteriorated during the course.
Discrimination of speech sound contrasts determined with behavioral tests and event-related potentials in cochlear implant recipients.	Cortical potentials evoked with speech stimuli were investigated in ten experienced cochlear implant (CI, type Nucleus 24M) users using three different speech-coding strategies and two different speech contrasts, one vowel (/i/-/a/) and one consonant (/ba/-/da/) contrast. On average, results showed that, compared to subjects with normal hearing, P300 amplitudes were smaller; however, most latencies were within the normal range. Next, individual P300 measures in response to the two speech contrasts were compared to behavioral discrimination scores. Significant within-subject differences in P300 amplitudes and latencies were found for the three speech coding strategies. These differences were in agreement with the behavioral, strategy-dependent discrimination of the speech contrasts.
Influence of the Glu298Asp polymorphism of NOS3 on age at onset and homocysteine levels in AD patients.	The distribution of the Glu298Asp polymorphism in NOS3 gene was determined in 405 Italian patients with "probable" Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared with 253 age-matched controls. Total plasma homocysteine (tHcy) levels were evaluated in 97 patients and 23 controls, and were correlated with the Glu298Asp genotype. A significantly increased frequency of the Glu/Glu genotype in late onset AD (LOAD) patients was found. tHcy levels were significantly increased in patients compared with controls and, notably, higher in LOAD than in early onset AD (EOAD). Stratifying by the Glu298Asp genotype, a trend toward an increase of tHcy was present in Glu/Glu homozygous. This wild type genotype seems to be associated with LOAD. tHcy levels are significantly increased in AD compared with controls and, moreover, higher in LOAD than in EOAD, possibly in correlation with the microvascular disease occurring with aging. Besides, a contribution of the Glu/Glu genotype in increasing tHcy levels has been observed.
Sequence variants of IDE are associated with the extent of beta-amyloid deposition in the Alzheimer's disease brain.	Insulin degrading enzyme, encoded by IDE, plays a primary role in the degradation of amyloid beta-protein (A beta), the deposition of which in senile plaques is one of the defining hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We recently identified haplotypes in a broad linkage disequilibrium (LD) block encompassing IDE that associate with several AD-related quantitative traits. Here, by examining 32 polymorphic markers extending across IDE and testing quantitative measures of plaque density and cognitive function in three independent Swedish AD samples, we have refined the probable position of pathogenic sequences to a 3' region of IDE, with local maximum effects in the proximity of marker rs1887922. To replicate these findings, a subset of variants were examined against measures of brain A beta load in an independent English AD sample, whereby maximum effects were again observed for rs1887922. For both Swedish and English autopsy materials, variation at rs1887922 explained approximately 10% of the total variance in the respective histopathology traits. However, across all clinical materials studied to date, this variant site does not appear to associate directly with disease, suggesting that IDE may affect AD severity rather than risk. Results indicate that alleles of IDE contribute to variability in A beta deposition in the AD brain and suggest that this relationship may have relevance for the degree of cognitive dysfunction in AD patients.
Fibroblast glutamate transport in aging and in AD: correlations with disease severity.	Altered glutamate transport and aberrant EAAT1 expression were shown in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. It is presently unknown whether these modifications are a consequence of neurodegeneration or play a pathogenetic role. However, recent findings of decreased glutamate uptake, EAAT1 protein and mRNA in AD platelets suggest that glutamate transporter modifications may be systemic and might explain the decreased glutamate uptake. We now used primary fibroblast cultures from 10 AD patients to further investigate the specific involvement of glutamate transporters in this disorder and in normal aging. Decreased glutamate uptake (p<0.001), EAAT1 expression (p<0.05) and mRNA (p<0.01) were observed in aged people, compared to younger controls. In AD fibroblasts, compared to age-matched controls, we observed further reductions of glutamate uptake (p<0.0005) and EAAT1 expression (p<0.005), while EAAT1 mRNA increase (p<0.001) was shown. EAAT1 parameters were mutually correlated (p<0.01) and correlations were shown with dementia severity (p<0.05 MMSE-expression, p<0.005 MMSE-mRNA). We suggest fibroblast cultures as possible ex vivo peripheral model to study the glutamate involvement and possible molecular and therapeutic targets in AD.
Enhanced GM1 ganglioside catabolism in cultured fibroblasts from Alzheimer patients.	The metabolic processing of GM1 ganglioside, exogenously administered to cultured skin fibroblasts, was investigated on cells obtained from patients affected with Alzheimer disease, in comparison with age-matched control subjects. Cultured fibroblasts were incubated with GM1 ganglioside, [(3)H]-radiolabelled at the sphingosine moiety. It was observed that the extent of tritiated GM2 and GM3 ganglioside formation was higher in AD fibroblasts than in control cells. The activity of acidic beta-D-galactosidase, responsible of GM1 hydrolysis to GM2 within lysosomes, assayed in vitro on cell lysates, was increased in AD fibroblasts in comparison with control cells. These data suggest that up-regulation of lysosomal enzymes could be responsible of the enhanced GM1 catabolism in AD fibroblasts. Finally, it was found that the extent of GM1 hydrolysis in AD fibroblasts was inversely correlated with the mini-mental score index of patients. The increased hydrolysis rate of sphingolipids could be taken as peripheral hallmark of Alzheimer's disease patients.
Cortical 6-[18F]fluoro-L-dopa uptake and frontal cognitive functions in early Parkinson's disease.	Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have already at the early stages of the disease impaired performance especially in tests measuring frontal lobe functions such as attention. The pathophysiological basis of these deficits is unclear. In the present study, 21 non-demented, non-medicated patients at the early stage of PD and 24 healthy controls underwent a positron emission tomography (PET) scan with 6-[18F]fluoro-L-dopa (Fdopa) as the tracer. In addition, the PD patients performed a neuropsychological test battery, including a test measuring sustained attention (VIG) and a test requiring suppressed attention (Stroop). Both voxel-based Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) and automated region of interest (ROI) analysis were employed. Compared to controls, the PD patients had decreased Fdopa uptake in the striatum and a large cortical area of increased Fdopa uptake. The reaction time in the VIG test correlated positively with the Fdopa uptake of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the performance in the Stroop test correlated negatively with the Fdopa uptake in an area including the medial frontal cortex and the anterior cingulate. The results show that cortical Fdopa uptake is increased in early non-medicated PD and suggest that the changes in frontal Fdopa uptake are related to cognitive impairments found in early PD.
The effects of protein deficiency and fluoride on bone mineral content of rat tibia.	This study examined the effects of chronic protein deficiency and fluoride administration (10 mg/kg/day), separately or in combination, on rat tibia properties. Protein deficiency increased the bone fluoride concentration and reduced the bone mineral content (BMC) especially at the proximal or growing end which contains mainly cancellous bone. Fluoride administration also reduced BMC, but to a lesser extent, and it resulted in proximal tibia fluoride concentrations that were nearly twice those of the distal tibia. The interaction between fluoride administration and the protein content of the diet on BMC was nonsignificant, suggesting that the effects were additive, not multiplicative or synergistic. Fluoride administration, but not protein deficiency, increased bone magnesium levels. It is hypothesized that the reduction in BMC in the areas where the fluoride concentrations were the highest was due to a localized toxic effect of fluoride.
An analysis of American Journal of Epidemiology citations with special reference to statistics and social science.	In an effort to inform the ongoing discussion about the purpose, purview, theoretical orientation, and viability of epidemiology, this paper considers the contemporary epistemological foundations of the discipline by analyzing article citations. Two principal questions are the following: 1) What research do American Journal of Epidemiology (AJE) authors rely on to support, inform, and frame their investigations? and 2) to what extent do such authors use social scientific and statistical citations? The data used appear to be superior to those used in previous efforts because they contain complete citations for all articles published, along with complete within-article citations, for all AJE articles published from January 1981 to December 2002. The most frequent AJE citations are statistically oriented works. About 9% of citations are to AJE articles, 15% are to a larger set of eight epidemiologic journals, 15% are to a select set of eight medical journals, 3% are to (bio)statistics journals, and just 0.2% are to social science journals. Trend analysis reveals little change during the 22-year study period. The principal implication is that AJE authors are overlooking a vast literature that could inform their understanding of how exposures emerge and are maintained.
Central and peripheral corneal pachymetry--standard evaluation with the Pentacam system]	Corneal thickness measurements are important in refractive surgery, for interpretation of IOP and in corneal diseases. The purpose of this study was to generate specific standard values for the Pentacam system and to investigate the influence of body size, body mass index, body weight, gender and refraction on central and peripheral corneal thickness for a more detailed characterization of the corneal anatomy.
Multivariate linear discrimination of seizures.	To discriminate seizures from interictal dynamics based on multivariate synchrony measures, and to identify dynamics of a pre-seizure state.
Steady state visual evoked potential abnormalities in schizophrenia.	The steady state visual evoked potential (SSVEP) can be used to test the frequency response function of neural circuits. Previous studies have shown reduced SSVEPs to alpha and lower frequencies of stimulation in schizophrenia. We investigated SSVEPs in schizophrenia at frequencies spanning the theta (4Hz) to gamma (40Hz) range.
Semantic relevance best predicts normal and abnormal name retrieval.	The relevance of a semantic feature measures its contribution to the "core" meaning of a concept. In a naming-to-description task, we investigated the predictive power of relevance in comparison with frequency, familiarity, typicality, and Age-of-Acquisition. In a group of Alzheimer patients with semantic disorder, relevance turned out to be the best predictor of name retrieval accuracy in a naming-to-description task. The same pattern of results was observed in normal controls. Relations between semantic relevance and the parameters of the concepts are discussed in order to highlight the mechanism of concept activation in a naming-to-description task.
Dissociating neuro-cognitive component processes: voxel-based correlational methodology.	Relating behavioural deficits to lesion site has long been an important tool for localising the brain bases of cognitive function. Voxel-based methods, based on statistical analyses of structural brain images, allow a major step forward in the effectiveness of this approach. These methods provide a fine-grained assessment of damaged tissue by assigning a continuous value to each voxel over the entire brain. This information, correlated with continuous behavioural data reflecting specific aspects of cognition, offers new opportunities for identifying the neural organisation underlying cognitive function. The research reported here demonstrates the ability of this correlational methodology to differentiate between the neuro-cognitive components involved in word recognition and lexical decision, providing an important new tool for directly linking brain areas to specific aspects of psychological performance.
Demonstration of excessive metabolic activity of thoracic and abdominal muscles on FDG-PET in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	The purpose of this study was to determine if an FDG-PET study was able to visualize muscle uptake of the chest and abdomen in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Effect of gender on suicide attempters versus nonattempters in an adolescent inpatient unit.	Although gender differences have been noted in the risk factors for suicide and attempted suicide, comparative studies to date have used only 2 groups and a limited number of measures. The present study compared the effect of gender on suicide among 4 groups of psychiatrically hospitalized adolescents using a cross-sectional design.
Care satisfaction, hope, and life functioning among adults with bipolar disorder: data from the first 1000 participants in the Systematic Treatment Enhancement Program.	The Systematic Treatment Enhancement Program for Bipolar Disorder (STEP-BD) is designed to evaluate the longitudinal outcome of patients with bipolar disorder. The STEP-BD disease-management model is built on evidence-based practices and a collaborative care approach designed to maximize specific and nonspecific treatment mechanisms. This prospective study examined the longitudinal relationships between patients' satisfaction with care, levels of hope, and life functioning in the first 1000 patients to enter STEP-BD.
The childhood-onset neuropsychiatric background to adulthood psychopathic traits and personality disorders.	Childhood conduct disorder (CD) and adult psychopathic traits according to the Psychopathy Checklist Revised (PCL-R) were the closest psychiatric covariates to repeated violent crimes and aggression among offenders under forensic psychiatric investigation in Sweden. As psychopathy is not included in the present psychiatric diagnostic systems, we compared total and factor PCL-R scores to Axis I disorders, including childhood-onset neuropsychiatric disorders, and to Axis II personality disorders, to establish the convergence of psychopathic traits with other psychiatric diagnoses, and to identify possible unique features. Psychopathic traits were positively correlated with bipolar mood disorder and negatively with unipolar depression. The total PCL-R scores as well as the Factor 2 (unemotionality) and Factor 3 (behavioral dyscontrol) scores were significantly correlated with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, Asperger's syndrome/high-functioning autistic traits, CD, substance abuse, and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition Cluster B personality disorders. The interpersonal Factor 1 showed none of these correlations and may capture features that are specific to psychopathy, distinguishing core psychopathy from other diagnostic definitions.
Childhood abuse, mental healthcare utilization, self-harm behavior, and multiple psychiatric diagnoses among inpatients with and without a borderline diagnosis.	Although borderline personality disorder (BPD) has defined diagnostic criteria, a number of other clinical features are associated with this diagnosis. These features may include childhood histories of abuse (eg, sexual, physical, and emotional abuse; the witnessing of violence), high mental healthcare utilization, self-harm behavior, and polysymptomatic presentations that result in multiple Axis I diagnoses. Although each of these variables has been described in the empirical literature, only 1 other study has explored all 4 of these variables in a single study population--the Collaborative Longitudinal Personality Disorders Study. Using clinical diagnoses and self-report surveys, we explored these variables among psychiatric inpatients in a community hospital. We found that, compared with patients with no BPD, those with BPD reported significantly more types of childhood trauma, higher utilization of particular mental health services (ie, number of times and days of hospitalization for mental health or substance abuse, number of psychiatrists and therapists ever seen, number of courses of psychotherapy treatment), and a higher number of self-harm behaviors. Although not significant, there were positive trends for the remaining variables. The authors discuss the implications of these findings as they relate to patients with BPD.
Predictors of aggression on the psychiatric inpatient service.	Patients with severe mental illness are at increased risk to commit acts of aggression in the inpatient hospital setting. Aggressive behaviors have severe negative consequences for the patient, victims, clinical staff, and the therapeutic community as a whole. While risk factors of community and inpatient aggression overlap, many predictive factors diverge between the two settings. For example, while medication noncompliance has been a robust predictor of community aggression, this factor has little predictive value for inpatient settings where patients' pharmacotherapy is closely monitored. Relatively fewer investigators have examined a wide range of predictive factors associated with aggressive acts committed on the psychiatry inpatient service, often with conflicting results. The present study examined demographic, clinical, and neurocognitive performance predictors of self, other, object, and verbal aggressiveness in 118 acute inpatients. Results revealed that the arrival status at the hospital (voluntary vs involuntary), female gender, and substance abuse diagnosis were predictors of verbal aggression and aggression against others. Impaired memory functioning also predicted object aggression. Fewer symptoms, combined with higher cognition functioning, however, were significant predictors of self-aggressive acts committed on the inpatient service. The need for relating predictors of specific types of aggressiveness in schizophrenia is discussed.
Cloninger's temperament dimensions and affective responses to different challenges.	Cloninger's psychobiological model of temperament and character postulates that each of the temperament dimensions is associated with a specific emotional experience, depending on the situational cues. The aim of the present study was to test this postulate in a variety of challenging experimental tasks. The participants were 91 healthy young adults whose temperament was assessed with the temperament and character inventory. The subjects rated their emotions during each task and rest period using an adjective checklist. Novelty seeking was associated with dullness during monotonous and aversive situations and with a higher level of pleasantness during the initial baseline period and the appetitive situation. Harm avoidance was associated with higher levels of fear and unpleasant emotions and lower levels of positively valenced emotions. The present study provides support for the validity of Cloninger's temperament dimensions as predictors of emotional responses during different challenges. Especially, novelty seeking and harm avoidance appear to have a significant influence on emotional experience.
Discriminant efficiency of antisocial and borderline personality disorder criteria in Hispanic men with substance use disorders.	The authors examined the discriminant efficiency of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition ( DSM-IV ) criteria for borderline personality disorder (BPD) and antisocial personality disorder (APD). Subjects were 74 men admitted to an outpatient substance abuse program for monolingual Hispanic adults. All were reliably assessed with the Spanish-language version of the Diagnostic Interview for DSM-IV Personality Disorders. Conditional probabilities were calculated to determine the diagnostic efficiency and discriminant efficiency of BPD and APD symptoms. Twenty-five (34%) subjects met diagnostic criteria for BPD, and 16 (22%) met criteria for APD. The diagnostic co-occurrence of these disorders was statistically significant. Whereas the diagnostic efficiency of the BPD criterion set was comparable to that reported in other clinical studies, these criteria were not significantly more efficient in diagnosing BPD than APD. By contrast, the APD criteria were more efficient in diagnosing APD than BPD; this was true for both the "adult" and the "conduct disorder" APD criterion subsets. In male Hispanic outpatients with substance use disorders, BPD and APD show significant diagnostic overlap. The APD criteria are useful in discriminating these 2 disorders, whereas the BPD criteria are not. These findings have implications for the discriminant validity of the BPD and APD criteria and support the value of the conduct disorder criteria in predicting APD in adulthood.
Persistent hallucinosis in borderline personality disorder.	A case series of 10 patients with a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder (BPD) presenting with auditory hallucinosis is examined. In this series, the hallucinations were persistent, longstanding, and a significant source of distress and disability. Extrapolating from this series to our sample of 171 patients with BPD suggests that a form of auditory hallucinosis may occur in almost 30% of this population. The failure to emphasize this phenomenon in current systems of classification risks misdiagnosis or inappropriate treatment. Use of terms such as pseudohallucination or quasi hallucination dismisses the phenomenon as unimportant or as "not real." There is an emerging literature on the frequency of hallucinosis among nonpatients. A basis for understanding different forms of hallucination is discussed with reference to the concept of "normativity." We propose a nomenclature for hallucinosis that is expressed in positive terms, reflecting the clinical significance of the phenomenon in different contexts: (1) normative hallucinosis, (2) traumatic-intrusive hallucinosis (as in our series), (3) psychotic hallucinosis, and (4) organic hallucinosis.
Correlation of radiographic and MRI parameters to morphological and biochemical assessment of intervertebral disc degeneration.	Degenerative disc disease (DDD) is a common finding in MRI scans and X-rays. However, their correlation to morphological and biochemical changes is not well established. In this study, radiological and MRI parameters of DDD were assessed and compared with morphological and biochemical findings of disc degeneration. Thirty-nine human lumbar discs (L1-S1), age 19-86 years, were harvested from eight cadavers. Within 48 h postmortem, MRIs in various spin-echo sequences and biplanar radiographs of intact spines were obtained. Individual discs with endplates were then sectioned in the mid-sagittal plane and graded according to the morphological appearance. Samples from the nucleus of each disc were harvested for biochemical analysis including water and proteoglycan contents. On MRIs, T2-signal intensity, Modic changes, disc extension beyond the interspace (DEBIT), nucleus pulposus shape, annular tears, osteophytes and endplate integrity were graded. On radiographs, an independent observer classified the parameters disc height, endplate sclerosis, osteophytes, Schmorl's nodes, intradiscal calcifications and endplate shape. General linear-regression models were used for statistical analysis. Backward elimination with a 10% significance cut-off level was used to identify the most significant parameters, which then were summed to create composite scores for radiography, MRI and the combination of both methods. The grading was performed by three observers, and a reliability analysis using Cronbach's alpha model was used to control interobserver agreement. The three radiographic parameters height-loss, osteophytes and intradiscal calcifications correlated significantly with the morphological degree of degeneration (p<0.001, R2=642). Significant differences of even one morphological grade could also be differentiated in the composite radiological score (p<0.05), except at the extremes between grades 1 and 2 and grades 4 and 5. All MRI parameters correlated significantly with the morphological grade (p<0.05); however Modic changes, T2-intensity and osteophytes accounted for 83% of the variation in the data. T2-signal intensity correlated significantly with H2O and proteoglycan content (p<0.001), and was best for detecting highly degenerated discs. Regression showed that the combined score was better correlated with the morphological grade (p<0.001, R2=775) than either the composite radiographic (p<0.001, R2=642) or composite MRI (p<0.001, R2=696) alone. Based on the combined score, a backwards elimination of the regression was performed, in which the parameters Modic changes, and T2-intensity loss (MRI) as well as calcifications (X-ray) accounted for 87% of the variability. The interobserver validation showed a high correlation for all three scores (Cronbach's alpha values ranging from 0.95 to 0.97).
Increased incidence of micronuclei assessed with the micronucleus assay and the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique in peripheral blood lymphocytes of nurses exposed to nitrous oxide.	It has been postulated that exposure to nitrous oxide and halogenated anaesthetics is associated with various adverse health effects such as neurological and reproductive abnormalities or impairment of hepatic functions. In spite of the quite well known genotoxic effects of exposure to nitrous oxide in vivo, the mechanisms of these effects are still not clear. The aim of this study was to assess the frequency of micronuclei and to identify the type of chromosomal damage (clastogenic or aneugenic) in peripheral blood lymphocytes of operating-room nurses exposed to nitrous oxide. The study group comprised 46 women working at departments where the concentration of nitrous oxide ranged from 14 to 2308 mg/m3. The control population was composed of 28 women employed in the same hospitals but in non-surgical departments. The clastogenic/aneugenic effect of nitrous oxide was evaluated in lymphocytes using the standard micronucleus (MN) assay in combination with the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique with pancentromeric probes. The results show a significant increase of the MN frequency in lymphocytes of exposed nurses compared with the control group (4.36+/-2.23 versus 9.02+/-4.67). The multiple regression analysis revealed a statistically significant relationship (p=0.0009) between MN frequency and exposure status, indicating that the level of exposure was the main factor affecting chromosomal damage. As assessed by FISH analysis, the overall frequencies of centromere-positive MN in the control and exposed groups were 43 and 49%, respectively. The increase observed in the exposed group may suggest a slight, statistically insignificant pro-aneugenic effect of exposure to nitrous oxide.
Reduced clastogenic activity of maleic hydrazide in Vicia faba seedlings grown in a situation of overcrowding stress.	A pre-treatment stress situation of overcrowding of Vicia faba seedlings in the phase of germination and growth influenced their subsequent sensibility to treatment with the mutagenic herbicide maleic hydrazide. The seedlings showed a significant reduction in the frequency of micronucleated cells when they grew in a strongly crowded manner compared with scattered and uniformly distributed seedlings (3.83% versus 11.46%). The findings do not provide evidence for the involvement of phytochelatins in response to stress conditions in this process: pre-treatment with buthionine sulfoximine, a specific inhibitor of phytochelatin synthesis, did not modify the response of the seedlings to maleic hydrazide under conditions of overcrowding or under normal conditions. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to observe the root tip of V. faba grown in conditions of normal growth or overcrowding. SEM micrographs revealed differences between the tips with regards to root hair density and root surface morphology. Finally, we found a positive correlation between the frequency of micronucleated cells and the length of the primary root, for every time of growth considered (1, 3, 4 and 5 days).
Importance and factors related to chronic fatigue in multiple sclerosis]	The importance of fatigue in multiple sclerosis (MS) is determined by its high frequency and it is an important cause of disability.
The existential effects of traumatic experiences: a survey of young adults.	This study examined the relation between exposure to trauma and attitudes toward existential issues. Participants were 504 undergraduate students (average age = 19.67) who answered questions on exposure to trauma, fear of death, overall distress, and meaning in life. Results indicated that those with a history of trauma exposure had higher levels of overall distress, but there were no differences in death anxiety or meaning in life. The results suggest that the positive outcomes (less fear of death and increased meaning in life) associated with exposure to traumatic events may be relatively rare, especially amongst younger adults.
Trace elements accumulation in edible tissues of five sturgeon species from the Caspian Sea.	This study is focused on twenty trace elements (Ag, Ba, Bi, Cd, Co, Cr, Cs, Cu, Ga, In, Mn, Mo, Pb, Rb, Sb, Sn, Sr, Ti, V, Zn) accumulation in muscles of five sturgeon species (Acipenser guldenstaedti, A. persicus, A. nudiventris, A. stellatus and Huso huso) from the southern part of the Caspian Sea. Moreover the relationships between some biological characteristics and the levels of the selected elements as well as inter-elemental relationships were assessed. The samples (10 specimens for each the five species) were collected from two important sturgeon fishery zones located in the Iranian part of the Sea in 2002. Concentrations of the elements were determined using ICP-MS. Only in the case of Cs could significant differences between two selected sampling areas be detected. There were significant differences in levels of Co, Ga, Rb, Sn, Ti, Pb and Bi in muscles of the species. Only in the case of Cd weight related differences among the species were found. The significant length dependent relationships were observed for Ga and Ba. Patterns of elements accumulation were assessed by statistical methods and compared to the other researches. In all the cases, the amounts of toxic trace elements (Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn) were markedly below the international guidelines for human consumption.
The condition of coral reefs in South Florida (2000) using Coral disease and bleaching as indicators.	The destruction of coral reef habitats has occurred at unprecedented levels during the last three decades. Coral disease and bleaching in the Caribbean and South Florida have caused extensive coral mortality with limited recovery, often coral reefs are being replaced with turf algae. Acroporids were once dominant corals and have diminished to the state where they are being considered as endangered species. Our survey assessed the condition of reef corals throughout South Florida. A probability-based design produced unbiased estimates of the spatial extent of ecological condition, measured as the absence or presence and frequency or prevalence of coral diseases and bleaching intensity over large geographic regions. This approach allowed us to calculate a quantifiable level of uncertainty. Coral condition was estimated for 4100 hectares (ha) (or 41.0 km2) of coral reefs in South Florida, including reefs in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary (FKNMS), New Grounds, Dry Tortugas National Park (DTNP), and Biscayne National Park (BNP). The absence or presence of coral disease, 'causal' coral bleaching, partial bleaching and coral paling were not good indicators of overall coral condition. It was more useful to report the prevalence of anomalies that indicated a compromised condition at both the population and community levels. For example, 79% of the area in South Florida had less than 6% of the coral colonies diseased, whereas only 2.2% (97.15 ha) of the sampled area had a maximum prevalence of 13% diseased coral colonies at any single location. The usefulness of 'causal bleaching' might be more important when considering the prevalence of each of the three different states at a single location. For example, paling was observed over the entire area, whereas bleaching and partial bleaching occurred at 19 and 41% of the area, respectively. An index for coral reef condition might integrate the prevalence and species affected by each bleaching state at individual locations. By establishing these baselines, future surveys can examine changes and trends in the spatial distribution of coral conditions in South Florida and able to score the reefs as to their health status.
Group therapy reduces medical and psychiatric hospitalization.	This article studies the impact of outpatient group therapy on medical care at a large city-county hospital. Of the 65 group therapy outpatients, 33 persons met the criterion of having attended at least 12 group sessions over the course of a year. We compared a control period (the year prior to initiating group therapy) with a study period (months 6-18 after starting group) and found a sharp decrease in the number of hospitalizations and in-hospital days. There was significantly increased use of neuroleptics and nonpsychotropics and increased attendance at nonpsychiatric clinics.
Age-related changes in hyaluronan, proteoglycan, collagen, and osteonectin synthesis by human bone cells.	Human bone cells grown in culture, representative of a preosteoblastic stage of maturation, produce an extracellular matrix composed of collagen, several noncollagenous glycoproteins, hyaluronan, and four distinct proteoglycans (PGs). The influence of donor age on the levels of expression of these molecules in vitro has not been well characterized. In this study, human bone cells derived from sources ranging from fetal to 60-year-old donors were grown in culture, radiolabeled for 24 h, and the amount of incorporation of [35S]sulfate into PGs, [3H]glucosamine into hyaluronan, [3H]leucine/proline into osteonectin, and [3H]proline into collagen was determined. Cell proliferation was most rapid in fetal-derived bone cells and decreased with increasing age. Total protein and PG synthesis also decreased with increasing age, falling to 1/3 and 1/4, respectively, of fetal levels after age 30. A large chondroitin sulfate PG (Mr approximately 600,000 Da) was the major fetal PG and its levels were highly correlated with cellular proliferation. [3H]Collagen and [35S]decorin levels increased with the increasing age of the donor, reached a maximum in puberty-derived cells, and decreased to 1/3 maximal levels after age 20. The heparan sulfate PG (Mr approximately 400,000 Da) exhibited steady-state levels regardless of donor age. [3H]Osteonectin and [35S]biglycan levels were high in fetal-derived cells and in cells derived from pubescent donors. The percentage of collagen and four proteoglycans associated with the cell layer pool changed with donor age. All fetal-derived PG core proteins possessed more N- and O-linked oligosaccharides than newborn or adult derived PGs.
Cognitive deficits and changes in neurometabolites after a lacunar infarct.	In contrast to earlier observations, recent studies have demonstrated that supratentorial lacunar infarcts in the white matter may cause mild neuropsychological impairments. The origin of these cognitive disturbances is yet unknown. In the current study proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H MRS) was used to elucidate the hypothesized relation between a lacunar infarct, metabolic alterations, and neuropsychological function. Patients with a single supratentorial lacunar infarct (n = 26) were compared with patients with a mild myocardial infarct (n = 12) and healthy controls (n = 12) on a comprehensive neuropsychological examination, and on the N-acetyl-aspartate/creatine, choline/creatine and lactate/creatine ratios. The volume of interest of the MRI/MRS examination was located in normal-appearing white matter of the centrum semiovale at a distance from the infarct, in both the ipsilateral and contralateral hemisphere. On neuropsychological examination patients with a lacunar infarct performed worse than both patients with a myocardial infarct and healthy controls. The N-acetyl-aspartate/creatine ratio was decreased in patients with a lacunar infarct compared with the other two groups. More important, this decrease in neurometabolites was significantly correlated to the level of cognitive functioning for the ipsilateral hemisphere and, although to a lesser extent, for the contralateral hemisphere. We conclude that a single symptomatic lacunar infarct in the white matter is associated with (distant) disturbances in neurometabolites and that this decrease is related to a reduced cognitive capacity.
Deep brain stimulation in late stage Parkinson's disease: a retrospective cost analysis in Germany.	During the last few years, deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has emerged as a promising therapy, alleviating major motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, in times of growing budgetary limitations, medical decisions are no longer merely based on clinical efficacy, but also on cost-effectiveness. Here we assess treatment costs (i. e. costs for conservative pharmacological treatment and all in-patient admissions) of 46 PD patients for one year before and two years after STN-DBS. The present data show that total treatment costs were increased by 32% for the first year and decreased by 54% for the second year of STN-DBS in comparison with preoperative values while the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS III) was significantly improved. The increase for the first year after surgery was mainly due to the implantation of the STN electrodes and the stimulation device. Taken together, STNDBS pays off from the second year of stimulation while motor symptoms are significantly improved. The present study provides first data of an important number of patients on clinical effectiveness and expenses in relation to STNDBS.
Transmitting and decoding facial expressions.	This article examines the human face as a transmitter of expression signals and the brain as a decoder of these expression signals. If the face has evolved to optimize transmission of such signals, the basic facial expressions should have minimal overlap in their information. If the brain has evolved to optimize categorization of expressions, it should be efficient with the information available from the transmitter for the task. In this article, we characterize the information underlying the recognition of the six basic facial expression signals and evaluate how efficiently each expression is decoded by the underlying brain structures.
The relationship of cancer symptom clusters to depressive affect in the initial phase of palliative radiation.	Research on comorbidity across cancer symptoms, including pain, fatigue, and depression, could suggest if crossover effects from symptom-specific interventions are plausible. Secondary analyses were conducted on a survey of 268 cancer patients with recurrent disease from a northeastern U.S. city who were initiating palliative radiation for bone pain. Moderator regression analyses predicted variation in depressive affect that could be attributed to symptom clusters. Patients self-reported difficulty controlling each physical symptom over the past month on a Likert scale and depressive symptoms on a validated depression measure (Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression [CES-D]) over the past week on a four-category scale. An index of depressive affect was based on items of negative and positive affect from the CES-D. In predicting depressive affect, synergistic interactions of pain with fever, fatigue, and weight loss suggest separate pathways involving pain. A similar interaction with fever occurs when nausea was tested in place of pain. Further, the interaction between pain and fatigue is similar in form to the interaction between difficulty breathing and fatigue (when sleep is not a problem). Follow-up to the latter interaction reveals: 1) additional moderation by hypertension and palliative radiation to the hip/pelvis; and 2) a similar cluster not involving hypertension when appetite problems and weight loss were tested in place of fatigue. The significance and form of these interactions are remarkably consistent. Similar sickness mechanisms could be generating: 1) pain and nausea during fever; 2) pain and fatigue during weight loss; and 3) pain and breathing difficulty when fatigue is pronounced. Crossover effects from symptom-specific interventions appear promising.
Predictors and Correlates of Fatigue in HIV/AIDS.	Variation in the intensity of fatigue according to selected demographic, cultural, and health/illness variables was explored in 372 patients with HIV/AIDS, and the contribution of fatigue to physical and mental health in this population was investigated within the UCSF Symptom Management Model (UCSF-SMM). The sample included 73% African Americans and 63% males. Moderate to severe fatigue intensity was reported by 58% of the total sample. Women, Hispanics, the disabled and those with inadequate income or insurance reported higher fatigue intensity scores. Two hierarchical regression models explored the contributions of fatigue to physical and mental health. Fatigue contributed 2% to the total variance (37.4%) in physical health, but did not contribute as an independent predictor of the total variance (23.2%) in mental health. The results of this study imply the need for further gender and ethnic-specific fatigue research, as well as symptom cluster research.
Energy functions for protein design: adjustment with protein-protein complex affinities, models for the unfolded state, and negative design of solubility and specificity.	The development of the EGAD program and energy function for protein design is described. In contrast to most protein design methods, which require several empirical parameters or heuristics such as patterning of residues or rotamers, EGAD has a minimalist philosophy; it uses very few empirical factors to account for inaccuracies resulting from the use of fixed backbones and discrete rotamers in protein design calculations, and describes the unfolded state, aggregates, and alternative conformers explicitly with physical models instead of fitted parameters. This approach unveils important issues in protein design that are often camouflaged by heuristic-emphasizing methods. Inter-atom energies are modeled with the OPLS-AA all-atom forcefield, electrostatics with the generalized Born continuum model, and the hydrophobic effect with a solvent-accessible surface area-dependent term. Experimental characterization of proteins designed with an unmodified version of the energy function revealed problems with under-packing, stability, aggregation, and structural specificity. Under-packing was addressed by modifying the van der Waals function. By optimizing only three parameters, the effects of >400 mutations on protein-protein complex formation were predicted to within 1.0 kcal mol(-1). As an independent test, this modified energy function was used to predict the stabilities of >1500 mutants to within 1.0 kcal mol(-1); this required a physical model of the unfolded state that includes more interactions than traditional tripeptide-based models. Solubility and structural specificity were addressed with simple physical approximations of aggregation and conformational equilibria. The complete energy function can design protein sequences that have high levels of identity with their natural counterparts, and have predicted structural properties more consistent with soluble and uniquely folded proteins than the initial designs.
Prevalence and correlates of crack-cocaine injection among young injection drug users in the United States, 1997-1999.	We estimated prevalence and identified correlates of crack-cocaine injection among young injection drug users in the United States.
Association between lower P300 amplitude and smaller anterior cingulate cortex volume in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder: a study of victims of Tokyo subway sarin attack.	Previous investigations of auditory P300 event-related potentials have provided electrophysiological evidence for attentional problems in patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The present study sought to evaluate the relationship between P300 deficits and underlying brain morphological abnormalities in never-treated, comorbidity-free patients with PTSD following the Tokyo subway sarin attack. Out of 47 victims recruited, 8 victims with PTSD and 13 victims without PTSD were identified. Correlational analyses were performed between auditory P300 amplitude at Pz electrode site elicited in an oddball task and anterior cingulate gray matter volume that was shown to be reduced in our previous study using voxel-based morphometry on magnetic resonance imaging. Victims with PTSD showed significantly lower amplitudes of P300 compared with victims without PTSD, and the lower P300 amplitudes at Pz were significantly associated with higher avoidance/numbing scores in the PTSD group. Furthermore, in the PTSD group only, the P300 amplitudes showed a trend toward significant positive correlation with voxel densities of the anterior cingulate cortex gray matter. These results provide the first evidence that electrophysiological deficits of controlled attention observed in patients with PTSD may be linked to underlying brain morphological abnormalities.
Raloxifene exposure enhances brain activation during memory performance in healthy elderly males; its possible relevance to behavior.	Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that is prescribed in females only, but its use in male subjects is increasingly considered. With a growing number of patients having potential benefit from raloxifene, the need for an assessment of its effects on brain function is growing. Effects of estrogens on brain function are very subtle and difficult to detect by neuropsychological assessment. Functional imaging techniques, however, have been relatively successful in detecting such changes. This study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine effects of raloxifene treatment on memory function. Healthy elderly males (n = 28; mean age 63.6 years, SD 2.4) were scanned during performance on a face encoding paradigm. Scans were made at baseline and after 3 months of treatment with either raloxifene (n = 14) or placebo (n = 14). Treatment effects were analyzed using mixed-effects statistical analysis (FSL). Activation during task performance involved bilateral parietal and prefrontal areas, anterior cingulate gyrus, and inferior prefrontal, occipital, and mediotemporal areas bilaterally. When compared to placebo, raloxifene treatment significantly enhanced activation in these structures (Z > 3.1), except for mediotemporal areas. Task performance accuracy diminished in the placebo group (P = 0.02), but remained constant in the raloxifene group (P = 0.60). In conclusion, raloxifene treatment enhanced brain activation in areas spanning a number of different cognitive domains, suggesting an effect on cortical arousal. Such effects may translate into small effects on behavior, including effects on attention and working memory performance, executive functions, verbal skills, and episodic memory. Further neuropsychological assessment is necessary to test the validity of these predictions.
Fractional Gaussian noise, functional MRI and Alzheimer's disease.	Fractional Gaussian noise (fGn) provides a parsimonious model for stationary increments of a self-similar process parameterised by the Hurst exponent, H, and variance, sigma2. Fractional Gaussian noise with H < 0.5 demonstrates negatively autocorrelated or antipersistent behaviour; fGn with H > 0.5 demonstrates 1/f, long memory or persistent behaviour; and the special case of fGn with H = 0.5 corresponds to classical Gaussian white noise. We comparatively evaluate four possible estimators of fGn parameters, one method implemented in the time domain and three in the wavelet domain. We show that a wavelet-based maximum likelihood (ML) estimator yields the most efficient estimates of H and sigma2 in simulated fGn with 0 < H < 1. Applying this estimator to fMRI data acquired in the "resting" state from healthy young and older volunteers, we show empirically that fGn provides an accommodating model for diverse species of fMRI noise, assuming adequate preprocessing to correct effects of head movement, and that voxels with H > 0.5 tend to be concentrated in cortex whereas voxels with H < 0.5 are more frequently located in ventricles and sulcal CSF. The wavelet-ML estimator can be generalised to estimate the parameter vector beta for general linear modelling (GLM) of a physiological response to experimental stimulation and we demonstrate nominal type I error control in multiple testing of beta, divided by its standard error, in simulated and biological data under the null hypothesis beta = 0. We illustrate these methods principally by showing that there are significant differences between patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched comparison subjects in the persistence of fGn in the medial and lateral temporal lobes, insula, dorsal cingulate/medial premotor cortex, and left pre- and postcentral gyrus: patients with AD had greater persistence of resting fMRI noise (larger H) in these regions. Comparable abnormalities in the AD patients were also identified by a permutation test of local differences in the first-order autoregression AR(1) coefficient, which was significantly more positive in patients. However, we found that the Hurst exponent provided a more sensitive metric than the AR(1) coefficient to detect these differences, perhaps because neurophysiological changes in early AD are naturally better described in terms of abnormal salience of long memory dynamics than a change in the strength of association between immediately consecutive time points. We conclude that parsimonious mapping of fMRI noise properties in terms of fGn parameters efficiently estimated in the wavelet domain is feasible and can enhance insight into the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease.
Wavelet variance components in image space for spatiotemporal neuroimaging data.	Neuroimaging studies place great emphasis on not only the estimation but also the standard error estimates of underlying parameters derived from a temporal model. This allows inferences to be made about the signal estimates and resulting conclusions to be drawn about the underlying data. It can often be advantageous to interrogate temporal models after spatial transformation of the data into the wavelet domain. Wavelet bases provide a multiresolution decomposition of the spatial data dimension and an ensuing reduction in spatial correlation. However, widespread acceptance of these wavelet techniques has been hampered by the limited ability to reconstruct both parametric and error estimates into the image domain after analysis of temporal models in the wavelet domain. This paper introduces a derivation and a fast implementation of a method for the calculation of the variance of the parametric images obtained from wavelet filters. The technique is proposed for a class of estimators that have been shown to be useful in neuroimaging studies. The techniques are demonstrated for both functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) data sets.
Force level independent representations of predictive grip force-load force coupling: a PET activation study.	The existence of forward internal models is a fundamental principle in theories of predictive motor control. There are indications that internal models are represented in the cerebellum. So far, no conclusive data exist on automated procedures involving predictive motor behavior. In particular, it is unknown whether single or multiple task-specific internal models handle the broad range of behavioral situations in which they occur. Using H2(15)O PET in eight subjects, we examined predictive motor control in an automated grip force-load force coupling task at three differing load force levels. In the experimental condition, subjects pulled a grasped object against an isometric resistance while simultaneously producing anticipatory grip forces. There were three control conditions (pull force isolated; grip force isolated; motor rest). A 2 x 2 factorial design was chosen to reveal the interaction effect of grip force-pull force coupling. The factors were pull force (with/without) and grip force (with/without). Grip and load forces were well matched between experimental and control conditions. Conjunction inference and interaction analyses identified force coupling related activity in the ipsilateral posterior cerebellum that was independent of force levels. Interaction effects were also identified in the anterior cingulate and frontal association regions, the right caudate nucleus, and the left lingual gyrus. These data demonstrate the existence of modular representations for predictive force coupling, with the ipsilateral cerebellum playing a major role. Moreover, the data implicate that the representations for predictive force control are applicable to a range of different environmental affordances.
The neuroanatomy of general intelligence: sex matters.	We examined the relationship between structural brain variation and general intelligence using voxel-based morphometric analysis of MRI data in men and women with equivalent IQ scores. Compared to men, women show more white matter and fewer gray matter areas related to intelligence. In men IQ/gray matter correlations are strongest in frontal and parietal lobes (BA 8, 9, 39, 40), whereas the strongest correlations in women are in the frontal lobe (BA10) along with Broca's area. Men and women apparently achieve similar IQ results with different brain regions, suggesting that there is no singular underlying neuroanatomical structure to general intelligence and that different types of brain designs may manifest equivalent intellectual performance.
Correspondence of microelectrode mapping with magnetic resonance imaging for subthalamic nucleus procedures.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and microelectrode recording (MER) are commonly used to guide stereotactic procedures on the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Little is known about the correlation between the position of the STN as seen on MRI and that as determined by MER mapping. We compared these in 10 patients with Parkinson's disease.
Cross-sectional relations of electrocardiographic QRS duration to left ventricular dimensions: the Framingham Heart Study.	The goal of this study was to assess the relations of electrocardiographic QRS duration to left ventricular (LV) measurements in individuals without heart failure (HF) or prior myocardial infarction (MI).
Sanders classification of fractures of the os calcis. An analysis of inter- and intra-observer variability.	Our study was undertaken to assess the inter- and intra-observer variability of the classification system of Sanders for calcaneal fractures. Five consultant orthopaedic surgeons with different subspecialty interests classified CT scans of 28 calcaneal fractures using this classification system. After six months, they reclassified the scans. Kappa statistics were used to analyse the two groups. The interobserver variability of the classification system was 0.32 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.26 to 0.38). The subclasses were then combined and assessment of agreement between the general classes as a whole gave a kappa value of 0.33 (95% CI 0.25 to 0.41). The mean kappa value for intra-observer variability of the classification system was 0.42 (95% CI 0.22 to 0.62). When the subclasses were combined, it was 0.45 (95% CI 0.21 to 0.65). Our results show that, despite its popularity, the classification system of Sanders has only fair agreement among users.
Risk factors for ischemic lesions following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.	The aim of this study was to test whether enoxaparin treatment (40 mg subcutaneously once daily) reduces the risk of cerebral infarction after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and to investigate predictive risk factors for permanent ischemic lesions visible on follow-up computerized tomography (CT) scans obtained 3 months after SAH.
Surgery for intracranial meningiomas in the elderly: a clinical-radiological grading system as a predictor of outcome.	A grading system, called the Clinical-Radiological Grading System (CRGS), has been developed to standardize surgical indications in elderly patients harboring intracranial meningiomas. Patients with a score lower than 10 had a bad prognosis regardless of surgical treatment, those with a score between 10 and 12 had a prognosis positively influenced by surgery, and those with a score higher than 12 had a good prognosis regardless of surgical treatment. The authors performed a prospective cross-sectional study to validate further the use of the CRGS as a clinical tool to orientate surgical decision making in elderly patients and to explore prognostic factors of survival.
Biological activity of adult cavernous malformations: a study of 56 patients.	Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) have previously been considered as congenital and biologically static malformations. On the other hand, the potential for growth and de novo generation of CCMs have also been reported. It is therefore important to study the proliferative and neoangiogenetic capacity of these lesions.
Comparison of clinical and videofluoroscopic evaluation of children with feeding and swallowing difficulties.	The objectives of this study were threefold: (1) to evaluate the accuracy of clinical evaluation compared with videofluoroscopic swallowing studies (VFSSs) in the detection of penetration and aspiration in children of age 0 to 15 years presenting with feeding and swallowing problems; (2) to assess the relationship between therapists' confidence ratings in making judgements about the presence or absence of penetration and aspiration, and the accuracy of their evaluation as confirmed by VFSSs; (3) to identify clinical predictors of penetration and aspiration during clinical evaluation of children with feeding and swallowing difficulties. We used a prospective study to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of a diagnostic clinical evaluation compared with VFSSs (criterion standard). Clinical evaluation and videofluoroscopy forms for oral motor and swallowing evaluation, which included potential indicators of aspiration, were designed for this project. Seventy-five children with feeding problems participated (33 females, 42 males; age range 0 to 14 years, mean 2 years; 62% of participants younger than 12 months). For fluids, clinical evaluation showed a sensitivity of 92% for aspiration. For solids, sensitivity for detecting aspiration was 33%. Analysis of the therapists' mean confidence ratings compared with the accuracy of their judgement demonstrated that when therapists were very sure that the child was aspirating or penetrating or not, they were correct. When the therapists were unsure, then the accuracy of prediction was not as good. Cough was the most significant predictor (p < 0.05) of fluid aspiration and penetration. We conclude that clinical evaluation with experienced clinicians can detect aspiration and penetration of fluids in children of varied ages and diagnoses, but that it is not accurate with solids.
Handwriting performance in preterm children compared with term peers at age 6 to 7 years.	Preterm infants are at high risk for developmental impairments at school age. However, the impact of these impairments on important life skills, such as handwriting, is unknown. Forty-eight first-grade children (27 males, 21 females; mean age 6y 7mo, SD 3.9mo; range 6y 1mo to 7y 3mo) born preterm (birthweight < 1250g; gestational age < 34wks), without major physical or cognitive disabilities, were matched to 69 healthy, term control children (32 males, 37 females; mean age 6y 10mo, SD 3.6mo; range 6y 3mo to 7y 4mo) by sex and school class. All children were assessed using the Evaluation Tool of Children's Handwriting-Manuscript and several sensorimotor measures. Preterm children demonstrated significantly lower legibility and slower speed scores (p < 0.01) compared with control children for most of the handwriting tasks. Factors associated with legibility were visual perception and eye-hand coordination (r < 0.50; p < 0.05) and sex (r < 0.12; p = 0.01). In-hand manipulation and finger identification (r < 0.43; p < 0.01) were significantly correlated with slow handwriting speeds. Behaviour difficulties associated with hyperactivity and poor attention (Connors Abbreviated Symptoms Questionnaire) had a confounding influence on both legibility and speed. These findings may help guide early identification efforts and medical/therapeutic interventions for preterm children.
Ataxia, autism, and the cerebellum: a clinical study of 32 individuals with congenital ataxia.	The suggested link between autism and cerebellar dysfunction formed the background for a Swedish clinical study in 2001. Thirty-two children (17 females, 15 males; mean age 12y, SD 3y 10mo; range 6 to 21y) with a clinical suspicion of non-progressive congenital ataxia were examined, and parents were interviewed about the presence of neuropsychiatric problems in the child. Twelve children had simple ataxia, eight had ataxic diplegia, and 12 had 'borderline' ataxia. All but one of the 32 children had a mild to moderate gross motor disability according to Gross Motor Function Classification System (15 were categorized as level I, 16 as level II, and one child as level IV). Neuroimaging and neuropsychological testing were achieved in most cases. There was a strong association between learning disability* and autism spectrum disorder (often combined with hyperactivity disorder) on the one hand, and both simple and borderline 'ataxia' on the other, but a weaker link between ataxic diplegia and neuropsychiatric disorders. A correlation between cerebellar macropathology on neuroimaging and neuropsychiatric disorders was not supported. Congenital ataxia might not be a clear-cut syndrome of cerebellar disease, but one of many signs of prenatal events or syndromes, leading to a complex neurodevelopmental disorder including autism and learning disability.
DOPA-sensitive dystonia-plus syndrome.	We report on two sisters with a childhood-onset form of predominantly axial dystonia with marked diurnal fluctuations. Onset of clinical features was at approximately 6 years of age. Associated features included marked fatigue, slight facial dysmorphism, short stature, obesity, and learning disability*. Dystonia and fatigue responded to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) therapy, with recurrence of symptoms upon withdrawal; the efficacy has been maintained over 7 years. Other symptoms were not influenced. There was no other case in the family (which included an older, healthy brother), except for non-specific fatigue without dystonia in the mother, and there was no significant family history except for obesity on the father's side. These observations are discussed in relation to the classical descriptions of Segawa syndrome, and to more recent reports of childhood onset, age-related, and transient benign paroxysmal tonic upgaze and ataxia. The combination of symptoms, their sensitivity to DOPA, and their persistence throughout childhood constitute, to our knowledge, a new clinical entity, which we propose to categorize as a DOPA-sensitive dystonia-plus syndrome.
Trauma exposure and post-traumatic stress disorder in the general population.	To examine the lifetime prevalence of trauma experiences and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Overexpression of osteopontin in rheumatoid synovial mononuclear cells is associated with joint inflammation, not with genetic polymorphism.	Osteopontin (OPN) is thought to play an important role in rheumatoid synovitis. We investigated the expression of OPN in rheumatoid synovial fluid mononuclear cells (SFMC) and its potential association with genetic polymorphism of the OPN gene and joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Traditional and nontraditional cardiovascular risk factors are associated with atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis.	To determine the association between cardiovascular (CV) risk factors and atherosclerosis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Valuing a hypothetical cure for rheumatoid arthritis using the contingent valuation methodology: the patient perspective.	A willingness-to-pay (WTP) survey measures the value of a given intervention in money terms. We examined the WTP of Canadian patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) for a hypothetical cure for RA under private and public scenarios. The validity of the survey was explored by studying the association between WTP and variables thought to be associated with WTP and randomly-varied variables of the survey materials.
Absence of cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody in nonarthritic patients with chronic hepatitis C infection.	The increased prevalence of rheumatoid factor (RF) in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection markedly diminishes the diagnostic specificity of serum rheumatoid factor (RF) for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in patients with HCV. Cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) antibody, a highly specific biomarker for RA in the general population, may have better diagnostic utility for RA in the HCV population. To investigate if CCP antibody retains its specificity for RA in HCV infection, we determined the prevalence of CCP antibodies and examined the relationship between RF production and CCP antibody levels in a population of nonarthritic patients with chronic HCV infection.
Impact of functional impairment in ankylosing spondylitis: impairment, activity limitation, and participation restrictions.	To describe difficulties in everyday activities related to impaired function in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and to examine possible sex differences in the impact of the disease. In addition, to examine the relationships between measures of personal characteristics, impairment, and activity/participation levels within the framework of the International Classification of Functioning (ICF).
Individualism: a valid and important dimension of cultural differences between nations.	Oyserman, Coon, and Kemmelmeier's (2002) meta-analysis suggested problems in the measurement of individualism and collectivism. Studies using Hofstede's individualism scores show little convergent validity with more recent measures of individualism and collectivism. We propose that the lack of convergent validity is due to national differences in response styles. Whereas Hofstede statistically controlled for response styles, Oyserman et al.'s meta-analysis relied on uncorrected ratings. Data from an international student survey demonstrated convergent validity between Hofstede's individualism dimension and horizontal individualism when response styles were statistically controlled, whereas uncorrected scores correlated highly with the individualism scores in Oyserman et al.'s meta-analysis. Uncorrected horizontal individualism scores and meta-analytic individualism scores did not correlate significantly with nations' development, whereas corrected horizontal individualism scores and Hofstede's individualism dimension were significantly correlated with development. This pattern of results suggests that individualism is a valid construct for cross-cultural comparisons, but that the measurement of this construct needs improvement.
Correlates and predictors of self-reported suicide attempts among incarcerated youths.	The correlates and predictors of suicidal behaviors among 900 young offenders in detention centers in South Australia are investigated. That young offenders are a high-risk population is confirmed, with a quarter of the youths reporting recent suicidal ideation and more than a quarter reporting having made a suicide attempt. Past suicide attempts are significantly predictive of future suicide attempts. Other variables both concurrently and prospectively associated with suicidal behaviors (even after controlling for prior suicide attempt status) are substance use, prolonged dysphoric mood, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder signs, and having a bad temper. These variables not only have predictive value but should also be considered as appropriate targets when intervening to reduce suicide risk. It is suggested that impulsiveness is an underlying common factor.
Prevalence of co-occurring disorders among juveniles committed to detention centers.	The Practical Adolescent Diagnostic Interview (PADDI), a structured diagnostic interview designed to gather basic information about substance use disorders, mental health conditions, and related experiences, was used in routine evaluation of all adolescents committed to two juvenile detention centers. Anonymous data from 252 consecutively admitted adolescents were analyzed to assess the prevalence and severity of problem areas and to provide a preliminary exploration of interrelationships among those problems. Results demonstrated that a majority of adolescents manifested multiple problems. Whereas prevalence rates were high across gender, females displayed significantly greater mental health problems and maltreatment histories.
Quantification of aortic valve area and left ventricular muscle mass in healthy subjects and patients with symptomatic aortic valve stenosis by MRI.	MRI allows visualization and planimetry of the aortic valve orifice and accurate determination of left ventricular muscle mass, which are important parameters in aortic stenosis. In contrast to invasive methods, MRI planimetry of the aortic valve area (AVA) is flow independent. AVA is usually indexed to body surface area. Left ventricular muscle mass is dependent on weight and height in healthy individuals. We studied AVA, left ventricular muscle mass (LMM) and ejection fraction (EF) in 100 healthy individuals and in patients with symptomatic aortic valve stenosis (AS). All were examined by MRI (1.5 Tesla Siemens Sonate) and the AVA was visualized in segmented 2D flash sequences and planimetry of the performed AVA was manually. The aortic valve area in healthy individuals was 3.9+/-0.7 cm(2), and the LMM was 99+/-27 g. In a correlation analysis, the strongest correlation of AVA was to height (r=0.75, p<0.001) and for LMM to weight (r=0.64, p<0.001). In a multiple regression analysis, the expected AVA for healthy subjects can be predicted using body height: AVA=-2.64+0.04 x(height in cm) -0.47 x w (w=0 for man, w=1 for female).In patients with aortic valve stenosis, AVA was 1.0+/-0.35 cm(2), in correlation to cath lab r=0.72, and LMM was 172+/-56 g. We compared the AS patients results with the data of the healthy subjects, where the reduction of the AVA was 28+/-10% of the expected normal value, while LMM was 42% higher in patients with AS. There was no correlation to height, weight or BSA in patients with AS. With cardiac MRI, planimetry of AVA for normal subjects and patients with AS offered a simple, fast and non-invasive method to quantify AVA. In addition LMM and EF could be determined. The strong correlation between height and AVA documented in normal subjects offered the opportunity to integrate this relation between expected valve area and definitive orifice in determining the disease of the aortic valve for the individual patient. With diagnostic MRI in patients with AS, invasive measurements of the systolic transvalvular gradient does not seem to be necessary.
Subjective health as predictor for mortality]	In the last two decades self-rated health has received growing interest in international studies because of its consistent prediction for mortality. However, for Germany there are no studies confirming a long-term effect independent from objective health indicators in comparison of different follow-up. On the basis of the Life-Expectancy-Study (1984/86 - 1998) from the Federal Institute for Population Research it was possible to analyze the association between subjective health and mortality in relation to the length of observation. A stronger correlation between bad self-rated health and objective health status could be indicated because of a better prediction for mortality in a short-term follow-up. The evidence of a significant effect between self-rated health and mortality in the long-term follow-up not including the deaths from the short-term follow-up indicates that the mechanisms between subjective health and mortality are more complex than those between objective health status and death.
Study of HLA segregation in 479 thalassemic families.	479 families, each with a proband affected by homozygous beta-thalassemia, were typed for HLA. 224 families with a total of 1020 members were typed for the HLA-A, B, C, DR and DQ loci and 255 families with 1046 family members, were typed for the HLA-A, B, and C loci. Altogether, 896 A, B, C, DR and DQ haplotypes and 1020 A, B and C haplotypes were defined. At the same time, 120 healthy unrelated individuals from the same population were typed and used as controls. The analysis of the results was carried out at antigen, allele, haplotype, genotype and sex ratio level with the aim of looking on the one hand, for the existence of heterogeneity between the probands, the unrelated individuals and the healthy siblings and, on the other, for the existence of any distortion whatsoever of the HLA segregation in either the probands or in the healthy siblings in respect of the expected values according to the Mendelian equilibrium. No significant differences were evident between the probands and the controls by the tests carried out at different levels of the HLA system. This leads us to exclude the existence of an association between beta-thalassemia and HLA in the population studied. Moreover, the analysis of the transmission of the alleles, the haplotypes, the genotypes and the sex-ratio by parents to both affected and to healthy children did not show any clear evidence of segregation distortion in respect of the theoretical values.
Regulation of cytochrome oxidase activity in the rat forebrain throughout adulthood.	Measures of metabolic activity can provide useful indices of the effects of aging on neural function, since sustained changes in neural activity alter metabolic demand and the activity of metabolic enzymes. Previous reports of effects of aging on key enzymes for oxidative metabolism are mixed, however, with some reports that activity declines in the aging brain and others that activity remains stable or increases. We used high-resolution, quantitative histochemistry to test whether cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity changes in the forebrain during adulthood and senescence, measuring activity in each layer of the hippocampus and several cerebral cortical areas. In most forebrain regions, average cytochrome oxidase activity was slightly higher in middle-aged than in young adult rats but did not differ between middle-aged and old rats. Thus, there was no significant change in cytochrome oxidase activity with senescence. Additional analyses indicated that cytochrome oxidase activity is regulated regionally in the brain, as well as focally, and that differences in regional regulation may contribute to variation in CO activity among individuals, which was greater in young and old rats than in middle-aged animals.
Large trials or meta-analysis? That is not the question.	Selection and evaluation of evidence to identify the most effective treatment modalities is a difficult process. Randomized controlled trials are well accepted as the least biased means of evaluating medical, surgical, screening or preventive manoeuvres. The most commonly used statistical strategy to pool results from trials identified during a systematic review is the meta-analysis. Heterogeneity of trial results should be evaluated, interactions and specific populations identified for the planning of the new large trial.
Smooth muscle cell proliferation index correlates with 111In-labeled antibody Z2D3 uptake in a transplant vasculopathy swine model.	Transplant vasculopathy is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in heart transplantation. The proliferation of coronary vascular smooth muscle cells is a hallmark of transplant vasculopathy. The goal of this study was to detect coronary vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation in a swine model by imaging regions of uptake of a monoclonal antibody (Z2D3) labeled with 111In.
Spatial deconvolution technique to improve the accuracy of reconstructed three-dimensional diffuse optical tomographic images.	A straightforward spatial deconvolution operation is presented that seeks to invert the information-blurring property of first-order perturbation algorithms for diffuse optical tomography (DOT) image reconstruction. The method that was developed to generate these deconvolving operators, or filters, was conceptually based on the frequency-encoding process used in magnetic resonance imaging. The computation of an image-correcting filter involves the solution of a large system of linear equations, in which known true distributions and the corresponding recovered distributions are compared. Conversely, application of a filter involves only a simple matrix multiplication. Simulation results show that application of this deconvolution operation to three-dimensional DOT images reconstructed by the solution of a first-order perturbation equation (Born approximation) can yield marked enhancement of image quality. In the examples considered, use of image-correcting filters produces obvious improvements in image quality, in terms of both location and mirco(a) of the inclusions. The displacements between the true and recovered locations of an inclusion's centroid location are as small as 1 mm, in an 8-cm-diameter medium with 1.5-cm-diameter inclusions, and the peak value of the recovered micro(a) for the inclusions deviates from the true value by as little as 5%.
Wavelet packet correlation methods in biometrics.	We introduce wavelet packet correlation filter classifiers. Correlation filters are traditionally designed in the image domain by minimization of some criterion function of the image training set. Instead, we perform classification in wavelet spaces that have training set representations that provide better solutions to the optimization problem in the filter design. We propose a pruning algorithm to find these wavelet spaces by using a correlation energy cost function, and we describe a match score fusion algorithm for applying the filters trained across the packet tree. The proposed classification algorithm is suitable for any object-recognition task. We present results by implementing a biometric recognition system that uses the NIST 24 fingerprint database, and show that applying correlation filters in the wavelet domain results in considerable improvement of the standard correlation filter algorithm.
Improved fingerprint identification with supervised filtering enhancement.	An important step in the fingerprint identification system is the reliable extraction of distinct features from fingerprint images. Identification performance is directly related to the enhancement of fingerprint images during or after the enrollment phase. Among the various enhancement algorithms, artificial-intelligence-based feature-extraction techniques are attractive owing to their adaptive learning properties. We present a new supervised filtering technique that is based on a dynamic neural-network approach to develop a robust fingerprint enhancement algorithm. For pattern matching, a joint transform correlation (JTC) algorithm has been incorporated that offers high processing speed for real-time applications. Because the fringe-adjusted JTC algorithm has been found to yield a significantly better correlation output compared with alternate JTCs, we used this algorithm for the identification process. Test results are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
Implementation of a high-speed face recognition system that uses an optical parallel correlator.	We implement a fully automatic fast face recognition system by using a 1000 frame/s optical parallel correlator designed and assembled by us. The operational speed for the 1:N (i.e., matching one image against N, where N refers to the number of images in the database) identification experiment (4000 face images) amounts to less than 1.5 s, including the preprocessing and postprocessing times. The binary real-only matched filter is devised for the sake of face recognition, and the system is optimized by the false-rejection rate (FRR) and the false-acceptance rate (FAR), according to 300 samples selected by the biometrics guideline. From trial 1:N identification experiments with the optical parallel correlator, we acquired low error rates of 2.6% FRR and 1.3% FAR. Facial images of people wearing thin glasses or heavy makeup that rendered identification difficult were identified with this system.
Comparative study of face recognition techniques that use joint transform correlation and principal component analysis.	Face recognition based on principal component analysis (PCA) that uses eigenfaces is popular in face recognition markets. We present a comparison between various optoelectronic face recognition techniques and a PCA-based technique for face recognition. Computer simulations are used to study the effectiveness of the PCA-based technique, especially for facial images with a high level of distortion. Results are then compared with various distortion-invariant optoelectronic face recognition algorithms such as synthetic discriminant functions (SDF), projection-slice SDF, optical-correlator-based neural networks, and pose-estimation-based correlation.
Quality control of multichannel hematology analyzers. Bivariate on-line comparison of MCV and MCH values for the detection of random errors.	Volume and hemoglobin content of red blood cells are physiologically interdependent variables but are measured independently in multichannel hematologic analyzers. Therefore correlation of these results to each other can be used as an additional step in internal quality control. To facilitate precise correlation, data were collected from 44,873 consecutive routine determinations of red blood cell parameters. Gaussian distributions were fitted to the original distributions and bivariate elliptical acceptance limits were calculated for simultaneous evaluation of mean corpuscular volume and mean corpuscular hemoglobin results. With the proposed method, rare combinations of the three directly measured red blood cell parameters (hemoglobin, red blood cell count, and mean corpuscular volume) can be identified for the detection of random analytical or preanalytical errors. This mean corpuscular volume-mean corpuscular hemoglobin rule could be added to internal quality-control programs of hematologic analyzers to improve detection of unusual results and possible random errors.
In vivo uptake of [11C]choline does not correlate with cell proliferation in human prostate cancer.	Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of death from cancer among US men. Positron emission tomography (PET) with [(11)C]choline has been shown to be useful in the staging and detection of prostate cancer. The background of the increased uptake of choline in human prostate cancer is not completely understood. The aim of this study was to prospectively investigate the relationship between the [(11)C]choline uptake and the cell proliferation in human prostate cancer.
Fluorescence lifetime imaging of calcium using Quin-2.	We describe the use of a new imaging technology, fluorescence lifetime imaging (FLIM), for the imaging of the calcium concentrations based on the fluorescence lifetime of a calcium indicator. The fluorescence lifetime of Quin-2 is shown to be highly sensitive to [Ca2+]. We create two-dimensional lifetime images using the phase shift and modulation of the Quin-2 in response to intensity-modulated light. The two-dimensional phase and modulation values are obtained using a gain-modulated image intensifier and a slow-scan CCD camera. The lifetime values in the 2D image were verified using standard frequency-domain measurements. Importantly, the FLIM method does not require the probe to display shifts in the excitation or emission spectra, which may allow Ca2+ imaging using other Ca2+ probes not in current widespread use due to the lack of spectral shifts. Fluorescence lifetime imaging can be superior to stationary (steady-state) imaging because lifetimes are independent of the local probe concentration and/or intensity, and should thus be widely applicable to chemical imaging using fluorescence microscopy.
Transmission of breast cancer--a controversy resolved.	The Danish breast cancer data collected by Jacobsen (1946) have been reanalysed using morbid risks which incorporate mortality due to breast cancer. A dominant gene is favoured for familial breast cancer, supporting the conclusions of Williams & Anderson (1984) and later authors. Neglect of specific mortality does not greatly alter estimates of gene frequency and displacement, but the evidence for a major gene is inflated. No evidence for heterogeneity was found. Earlier claims of non-Mendelian transmission are in error since we have discovered that transmission probabilities are not correctly implemented in the computer program POINTER. Cases with bilateral breast cancer and males with breast cancer all belonged to families favouring a major gene. Of the cancer sites frequently reported to be associated with familial breast cancer, only ovarian cancer is significant in this material.
Objective semen analysis: has the target been reached?	Objectivity in assessing critical sperm characteristics such as concentration, motility and morphology, has been the target of many systems and devices. Methods based on physical principles such as turbidimetry, spectrophotometry, laser Doppler technology, are too imprecise or technically too complicated to be applied routinely in the laboratory. Microscopic images providing photographical, cinematographical or video data acquisition followed by manual or computer-assisted image analysis (CASA) suffer from practical and/or device deficiencies, making them tedious and time-consuming, or unreliable because of confounding factors and uncontrolled artefacts. A single-step computer system using visual evaluation of the microscopic field and manual tracking of sperm movement yields more reliable results, but technician expertise remains essential for correct performance. The scientific basis of multiple errors in semen aspiration, chamber quality, data acquisition and analysis is given. Biased interpretations of results or incorrect handling of statistical data are criticised.
Observer variability in endometrial cytology using kappa statistics.	To analyse the current state of endometrial cytology practice by determining the interobserver variability in grading the atypicality of endometrial cells using kappa statistics.
On the use of the classical tests for detecting linkage.	Some drawbacks of the classical Mather's linkage text XL2 are considered, and the simple contingency analysis is suggested as an alternative method. The former test is conditional on Mendelian segregation at both loci, whereas the simple contingency test is not. Furthermore, the contingency test and the test for Mendelian segregation at each locus are orthogonal when performed using the G statistic. Simulation results show that, when the XL2 is used, the actual type I error probability (alpha a) can be dramatically perturbed. As expected, no alpha a perturbation is observed when the G contingency test is used. On the other hand, when segregation is Mendelian at both loci, the power of the XL2 method is larger than that of the contingency G test when sample size is small and strong marginal distortion is observed. Because strong marginal distortion may suggest that segregation may be non-Mendelian, the XL2 is in general discouraged in favor of the simple contingency analysis.
Preliminary criteria for classification of adult Still's disease.	We have attempted to design classification criteria for adult Still's disease by analyzing the data obtained through a multicenter survey of 90 Japanese patients with this disease and of 267 control patients. The proposed criteria consisted of fever, arthralgia, typical rash, and leukocytosis as major, and sore throat, lymphadenopathy and/or splenomegaly, liver dysfunction, and the absence of rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibody as minor criteria. Requiring 5 or more criteria including 2 or more major criteria yielded 96.2% sensitivity and 92.1% specificity. However, an exclusion process will be needed for an accurate classification, since this disease is relatively rare.
Osteoarthritis antirheumatic drug trials. I. Effects of standardization procedures on observer dependent outcome measures.	We designed a study to assess the effects of standardization procedures on reducing interobserver variability for outcome measures given in the current Food and Drug Administration and European League Against Rheumatism guidelines and others selected from the rheumatology literature. Over 2 days, 6 rheumatologists independently examined 6 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) in predetermined order before and after standardizing their examination techniques. An important and beneficial effect of the standardization procedure was observed on the majority of outcome variables. Such reductions in observer variability have the potential to diminish sample size requirements for OA antirheumatic drug studies.
Postgraduate educational possibilities for young surgeons in the United Kingdom]	The authors describe the surgical training opportunities provided by the ODTS since 1986. These posts offer excellent postgraduate training. Hungarians may apply for ODTS posts after they have passed the Hungarian General Surgical examination, but preferably before the age of 35. The applications should be supported by Home Sponsors. The applicants must pass a high standard English Language examination.
A comparison of sample size methods for the logrank statistic.	Several methods are available for sample size calculation for clinical trials when survival curves are to be compared using the logrank statistic. We discuss advantages and disadvantages of some of these methods, and present simulation results under exponential, proportional hazards and non-proportional hazard situations.
Correlation between gene expression profiles and protein-protein interactions within and across genomes.	Function annotation of an unclassified protein on the basis of its interaction partners is well documented in the literature. Reliable predictions of interactions from other data sources such as gene expression measurements would provide a useful route to function annotation. We investigate the global relationship of protein-protein interactions with gene expression. This relationship is studied in four evolutionarily diverse species, for which substantial information regarding their interactions and expression is available: human, mouse, yeast and Escherichia coli.
Alcohol use and mortality from coronary heart disease: the role of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial Research Group.	To study the association between alcohol consumption and death from coronary heart disease and to determine the extent to which the association can be explained by the high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level.
Pharmaceutical advertisements in leading medical journals: experts' assessments.	To assess both the accuracy of scientific data presented in print pharmaceutical advertisements and the compliance of these advertisements with current Food and Drug Administration (FDA) standards.
Sample size calculations for ophthalmologic studies.	Sample size calculations are shown for some common ophthalmologic study designs in which two treatments are to be compared. Included are the following three designs: 1, only one eye per subject; 2, both eyes, with each eye assigned to a different treatment; and 3, both eyes undergoing a common treatment. Continuous and binary outcomes are considered. The correlation between eyes is accounted for in the computations using a simple correction factor. For design 3, the formulas allow for a mixture of single-eye and double-eye eligible subjects. A computer program that performs the calculations is available.
Entropies of coding and noncoding sequences of DNA and proteins.	The entropies of protein coding genes from Escherichia coli were calculated according to Boltzmann's formula. Entropies of the coding regions were compared to the entropies of noncoding or miscoding ones. With nucleotides as code units, the entropies of the coding regions, when compared to the entropies of complete sequences (leader and coding region as well as trailer), were seen to be lower but with a marginal statistical significance. With triplets of nucleotides as code units, the entropies of correct reading frames were significantly lower than the entropies of frameshifts +1 and -1. With amino acids as code units, the results were opposite: Biologically functional proteins had significantly higher entropies than proteins translated from the frameshifted sequences. We attempt to explain this paradox with the hypothesis that the genetic code may have the ability of lowering information content (increasing entropy) of proteins while translating them from DNA. This ability might be beneficial to bacteria because it would make the functional proteins more probable (having a higher entropy) than nonfunctional proteins translated from frameshifted sequences.
Evaluation of etching correction factor for LR115 cellulose nitrate films from track parameters.	LR115 cellulose nitrate films efficiency is strongly dependent on the conditions of etching. In this paper a new method to evaluate a correction factor for this effect is given. The film is scanned with an high-resolution scanner, the diameter of the tracks is measured, and the correction factor is calculated from the average diameter of the tracks. The sensitivity of the film is found to have a linear dependence on the average diameter, and the classical correction, based on the residual thickness, can be substituted by a method based on average track diameter.
Somatic sympathetic vasomotor changes documented by medical thermographic imaging during acupuncture analgesia.	Acupuncture is widely used for pain relief in many musculoskeletal disorders, and evidence suggests that modulation of the sympathetic nervous system responses which play an integral part in somatic pain, is an important mechanism of acupuncture action. This prospective study of 20 patients with neck and arm pain measured finger temperature, controlled by somatic sympathetic vasomotor activity before and after needle acupuncture. Responses were correlated with visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain severity. An association was found between pain relief and reduced sympathetic vasomotor activity. In 10 patients with significant reduction in visual analogue scale (VAS) pain (p less than .05), the mean change in temperature (delta t degrees C) was 0.55 (SD +/- 0.86) with significant difference in pre to post treatment temperatures (p less than .01). In 10 patients without significant pain relief on VAS scoring (p greater than .05), the mean t degrees C was 0.20 (SD +0.72) without significant difference in pre to post treatment temperatures (p greater than .05). The relevance of somatic sympathetic influences on musculoskeletal pain and modulation of sympathetic activity by acupuncture will be discussed.
The relationship between urinary cations obtained from the INTERSALT study and cerebrovascular mortality.	An epidemiological study on the relationship between 24 hour urinary sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and creatinine (Creat), as obtained from the INTERSALT study, and cerebrovascular disease (CVA) mortality in the age-standardised group 45-74 years, was conducted using data from 25 countries worldwide. A significant positive relationship was observed by multivariate analysis between cerebrovascular disease mortality and 24 hour urinary Na excretion in men, with Na/K ratio in women and with Na/Creat ratio in all groups. A significant negative correlation was found between the 24 hour urinary magnesium excretion and CVA mortality in men and in men and women averaged, while 24 hour urinary potassium excretion correlated significantly and negatively with CVA mortality in women. No significant relationship between systolic and diastolic blood pressure, 24 hour urinary calcium excretion and BMI with CVA mortality could be established. A log10 transformation revealed a significant positive relationship between Ca/Mg ratio with CVA mortality in men as well as in the group of men and women averaged. A significant negative correlation between CVA mortality and 24 hour creatinine excretion was found. This relationship was stronger in men and could point to a protective effect of protein intake. The findings also point to a direct relationship between dietary cation intake and CVA mortality.
Association of current smoking with airway inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asymptomatic smokers.	Inflammation in the airways and lung parenchyma underlies fixed airway obstruction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The exact role of smoking as promoting factor of inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is not clear, partly because studies often do not distinguish between current and ex-smokers.
Quantitative angiographic and statistical methods to assess serial changes in coronary luminal diameter and implications for atherosclerosis regression trials.	The purpose of this study was (1) to determine a threshold for categorizing individual coronary lesions as either significantly progressing or regressing, (2) to determine whether multiple lesions within individual patients progress at independent rates, and (3) to calculate sample sizes for atherosclerosis regression trials. Seventeen patients with 46 significant lesions (2.7 lesions/patient) underwent repeat coronary arteriography 3.0 years apart. With use of the standard error of the mean change in diameter from initial to repeat catheterization across 5 pairs of consecutive end-diastolic frames, individual lesions were categorized as either significantly (p less than 0.01) progressing or regressing if there was a 0.27 mm change in minimum diameter or a 7.8 percent point change in percent stenosis. The mean diameter change of a sample of lesions can also be analyzed as a continuous variable using either the lesions or the patient as the primary unit of analysis. A lesion-specific analysis can be accomplished using a multiple regression model that accounts for the intraclass correlation (rho) in the degree of change among multiple lesions within individual patients. The intraclass correlations in percent stenosis (rho = 0.01) and minimum diameter (rho = -0.24) were low, indicating that disease progression in different lesions within individual patients is nearly independent. With use of this model, 50 patients per treatment group would permit the detection of a 5.5% difference between treatment group means in the change in minimum diameter and a 2.7% percentage point (not percent) difference in the change in percent stenosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cigarettes, coffee, and preterm premature rupture of the membranes.	Premature (prior to 37 completed weeks of gestation) rupture of the membranes (preterm PROM) is one of the most common underlying causes of preterm delivery. However, there have been few epidemiologic studies of this obstetric complication. The authors studied the relation of maternal cigarette smoking and coffee consumption to both preterm PROM and spontaneous preterm labor not complicated by premature rupture of the membranes (preterm NONPROM) in a large cross-sectional data base. The 307 preterm PROM and 488 preterm NONPROM cases who delivered during 1977-1980 at the Boston Hospital for Women were compared with 2,252 randomly selected women who delivered at term at that institution. Multiple logistic regression techniques were used to derive maximum likelihood estimates of adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). After confounders had been adjusted for, the relative risk of preterm PROM for women who reported ever having smoked during pregnancy, as compared with nonsmokers, was 1.6 (95% CI 1.1-2.4). However, no gradient between the number of cigarettes smoked per day and the risk of preterm PROM was observed. Similar results were observed for preterm NONPROM. Women who consumed three or more cups of coffee daily during the first trimester had a 2.2-fold greater risk of preterm PROM than did women who drank two or fewer cups (95% CI 1.5-3.3). Among coffee drinkers, there was some evidence of a linear trend in the risk of preterm PROM as coffee consumption increased. Consumption of three or more cups of coffee per day was less strongly associated with the occurrence of preterm NONPROM (adjusted OR = 1.4, 95% CI 1.0-1.9).
Quality-of-life evaluation in a clinical trial of zidovudine therapy in patients with mildly symptomatic HIV infection. The AIDS Clinical Trials Group.	To evaluate the effects of zidovudine therapy in patients with mildly symptomatic HIV infection using Q-TWiST (quality-adjusted: Time Without Symptoms and Toxicity).
Digital filters for firing rate estimation.	When a rate histogram is used to represent the firing pattern of a neuron there is the potential for serious error due to aliasing, and because of this the rate histogram is a very poor way to represent neural activity. It is theoretically possible to encode a signal in a spike train and decode it without error by filtering and sampling. There is no natural optimal filter design for this problem, but it is possible to specify the characteristics of a good rate estimating filter heuristically and design a filter with these characteristics. Two rate estimating filters are described here. Their performance has been tested, and compared to the rate histogram and the French-Holden rate estimating algorithm, by measuring their ability to recover signals encoded as impulse sequences by Integral Pulse Frequency Modulation (IPFM). These filters are simple to implement and perform well. They should be used in preference to the rate histogram.
The use of correlation integrals in the study of localized muscle fatigue of elbow flexors during maximal efforts.	Innovative applications of non-linear time series analysis have recently been used to investigate physiological phenomena. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of using the correlation integral to monitor the localized muscle fatigue process in the biceps brachii during sustained maximal efforts. The subjects performed isometric maximum contractions until failure in elbow flexion (90 degrees from neutral). The median and the 70th percentile frequency of the Surface electromyography (SEMG) power spectrum, the integrated SEMG, and the Correlation Integral (CI) were evaluated during the trials. The linear correlation between these variables and the elbow torque production was used to quantify the ability of a parameter to follow the fatiguing process. The CI had the highest linear correlation with torque (0.77 (0.12SD)), while the spectral indices correlations with torque were much lower. The decreasing trend of the torque production was followed by the spectral indices for only the beginning part of the contraction, while the CI increased sharply after the torque production fell to about 0.60 of the MVC. This suggests that the CI is sensitive to different changes of the SEMG signal during fatigue than the spectral variables.
Statistical modelling of fatigue-related electromyographic median frequency characteristics of back and hip muscles during a standardized isometric back extension test.	The purpose of the present study was to evaluate which statistical model - linear, logarithmic, quadratic or exponential - best described the fatigue-related electromyographic (EMG) changes of back and hip muscles. Twenty healthy volunteers performed a modified Biering-Sorensen test. The EMG activity of the latissimus dorsi (LD), longissimus thoracis pars thoracis (LTT) and lumborum (LTL), iliocostalis lumborum pars thoracis (ILT) and lumborum (ILL), multifidus (MF), gluteus maximus (GM) and biceps femoris (BF) was measured bilaterally using surface electrodes. Higher R(2) values were found for the quadratic models (p<0.05 for all muscles), and lower R(2) values for the logarithmic models (p<0.05 for LTT, LTL, ILL, MF and GM). The exponential models generated higher R(2) values compared to the linear ones for the LTT, LTL and MF (all p<0.05). Further analyses revealed, however, that these models did not add useful additional information, and therefore would only increase the complexity. The findings of the current study validate the use of simple linear regression techniques when studying fatigue-related EMG median frequency characteristics of back and hip muscles during isometric contractions.
Environmental enrichment alters plus maze, but not maternal defense performance in mice.	Maternal defense behavior (or maternal aggression) is a highly conserved behavior for protecting offspring that is normally associated with decreased fear and anxiety in rodent dams. Environmental enrichment can decrease indices of fearfulness and anxiety (and elevate novelty seeking) in laboratory animals. This study examined whether enrichment could alter levels of maternal aggression and elevated plus maze performance in lactating mice. One group of female mice was exposed to a series of novel objects for 1.5 months while the other group was not. As expected, mice that had been exposed to an enriched environment showed significantly more entries to and time on the open arms of an elevated plus maze while they were lactating. Enriched mice showed similar maze performances when tested 3 months later in a non-lactating state, even though enrichment had been removed for 3 months. Further, offspring of enriched dams exhibited maze performance similar to that of their dams, suggesting possible epigenetic influences on maze performance. In contrast, no differences in measures of maternal aggression or pup retrieval were detected between enriched and control lactating mice. Together, these results indicate that environmental enrichment has long lasting effects on plus maze performance, but does not alter maternal aggression. The findings also suggest that whatever neural pathways are altered by enrichment do not strongly overlap or regulate those governing maternal aggression.
Random mtDNA deletions and functional consequence in aged human skeletal muscle.	Mitochondrial respiratory chain deteriorates with age, mostly in tissues with high energy requirements. Damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) by reactive oxygen species is thought to contribute primarily to this impairment. However, the overall extent of random mtDNA mutations has still not been evaluated. We carried out molecular and biochemical analyses in muscle biopsies from healthy young and aged subjects. Deleted mtDNA accumulation was followed by both quantitative PCR analysis to quantify total mtDNA, and Southern-blotting, to determine deleted to full length mtDNA ratio. Enzymatic activities of the mitochondrial respiratory chain were measured in all subjects. Randomly deleted mtDNA appeared mainly in the oldest subjects (beyond 80 years old), affecting up to 70% of mtDNA molecules. The activities of complexes III and IV of the respiratory chain, complexes with mtDNA encoded subunits, are lower in the aged subjects. Physical activity could be one major parameter modulating the mitochondrial respiratory chain activity in aged muscle.
The effect of infection-control barriers on the light intensity of light-cure units and depth of cure of composite.	Dental curing lights are vulnerable to contamination with oral fluids during routine intra-oral use. This controlled study aimed to evaluate whether or not disposable transparent barriers placed over the light-guide tip would affect light output intensity or the subsequent depth of cure of a composite restoration.
Duration of untreated psychotic illness: the role of premorbid social support networks.	A lengthy delay often exists between the onset of psychotic symptoms and the start of appropriate treatment. However, the causes of this long delay remain poorly understood, and there is a need to search for the factors involved in such a delay in order to reduce the time of untreated psychosis. This study aimed at examining the influence of premorbid social networks on the duration of untreated psychotic illness.
The impact of family experience on the duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) in Hong Kong.	Previous family experience of psychotic illness may play an important role in whether and when a patient seeks help in first-episode psychosis. This study investigated the relationship between family experience of psychosis and the duration of untreated psychosis in a prospective sample of first-episode psychosis patients in Hong Kong. We also studied the effects of pre-morbid adjustment, educational level, living alone, and mode of onset as potential determinants of the duration of untreated psychosis (DUP).
The intensity dependence of auditory evoked ERP components predicts responsiveness to reboxetine treatment in major depression.	The intensity (loudness)-dependent amplitude change (IDAP) of auditory evoked event-related potential (ERP) components has been suggested as an indicator of central serotonergic neurotransmission. In patients with major depression, associations of high IDAP with favorable SSRI treatment outcome have been reported. This is the first study to assess the predictive value of the IDAP in SNRI treatment.
Improved HIV-1 viral load determination based on reverse transcriptase activity recovered from human plasma.	A more sensitive version of ExaVir Load, a test that utilizes reverse transcriptase (RT) activity from virions in plasma to determine HIV-1 viral load, is described. The virions were immobilized on a gel that was washed, followed by lysis of the virions, elution of purified RT, and finally RT activity determination. The changes made to the original test were: (1) improved washing of the immobilized virions by addition of a non-lytic detergent to the wash buffer, (2) improved virion lysis procedure, including changes in salt, detergent and pH, (3) the use of larger sample volumes in the RT assay, and (4) prolonged RT reaction time. The alterations gave a tenfold increased sensitivity compared to the original version. The correlation between RT load by the current test and RNA PCR was the same as previously (r=0.90). Using colorimetric product detection, the average detection limit in a panel of 262 patient plasma from Stockholm was 0.5 fg RT/ml, corresponding to approximately 170 RNA copies/ml. None of 54 HIV-1 RNA negative samples exhibited RT. The amount of RT load positive samples were 19% for samples containing 50-400 RNA, 71% for samples with 400-1,500, and 100% among samples with >8,000 copies/ml (according to Roche Amplicor). The sensitivity could be increased further using fluorimetric detection. In conclusion, the modifications of the test described result in an important increase in sensitivity. It can now be regarded as a competitive alternative method for HIV viral load determinations.
Quantitative PCR in the diagnosis of CMV infection and in the monitoring of viral load during the antiviral treatment in renal transplant patients.	Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is a significant problem in transplantation. In this study, a quantitative PCR test was compared with the CMVpp65 antigenemia assay not only in the diagnosis CMV infections but especially in the monitoring of viral loads during ganciclovir treatment of CMV disease in individual renal transplant patients. Altogether 342 blood specimens were obtained from 116 patients. Blood specimens were used for Cobas Amplicor Monitor plasma PCR and for the pp65 assay. Also shell vial culture was performed. The patients with a positive pp65 finding were monitored for CMV weekly during ganciclovir treatment and/or until the antigenemia subsided. CMV was detected in 31/116 (27%) patients, of whom 14 (12%) developed CMV disease and were treated with ganciclovir. CMV was found by shell vial culture in 13/14 cases, but by PCR and pp65 test in all 14 patients. CMV was detected in 156 (45%) samples; by PCR in 121/156 (range 344-103,000 copies/ml) and by pp65 test in 138/156 (range 1-1,000 positive cells/50,000 leukocytes) and by culture in 59/156 (38%) only. The peak viral loads were significantly (P<0.0001) higher in CMV disease than in untreated infections (19,650 vs. 379 copies/ml, and 100 vs. 5pp65 positive cells). In the monitoring of individual patients, the time-related CMV-DNAemia and pp65 antigenemia correlated well during the treatment of CMV disease. In conclusion, Cobas Amplicor Monitor plasma PCR and CMVpp65 antigen assays can be equally used in the diagnosis CMV infection and in the monitoring of viral load during antiviral treatment.
Variables contributing to anticipatory nausea and vomiting in cancer chemotherapy.	Forty cancer patients receiving parenteral chemotherapy were assessed for characteristics associated with the development of anticipatory nausea and vomiting (ANV). The patients who developed ANV were more likely to have increased pretreatment anxiety (p less than 0.05), greater posttreatment dizziness/lightheadedness (p less than 0.01), more severe postchemotherapy vomiting (p less than 0.01), and a delayed onset of postchemotherapy nausea and vomiting (PCNV) compared to the patients who developed neither ANV nor PCNV. However, when patients who did not develop PCNV were excluded from the analysis, the difference between the ANV and non-ANV patients remained significant only for postchemotherapy dizziness/lightheadedness (p less than 0.05). In an attempt to identify a group of variables that better predict the development of ANV, we analyzed the data for combinations of variables. Two indices were found to correctly classify ANV and non-ANV patients 71% of the time (p less than 0.05). Index A refers to the presence of at least two of the following variables, pretreatment anxiety, posttreatment dizziness/lightheadedness, and latency of PCNV. Index B refers to the presence of at least two of the following variables: pretreatment anxiety, severity of nausea, and severity of vomiting. The identification of characteristics associated with the development of ANV could lead to new intervention strategies.
Comparison of the chromatin stainability of human spermatozoa separated by discontinuous Percoll gradient centrifugation. A flow cytometric contribution.	Many clinical programs in in vitro fertilization (IVF) use the classic Percoll sperm preparation technique to obtain a subpopulation of highly mobile spermatozoa. This Percoll discontinuous gradient centrifugation technique (densities ranging from 1.042 to 1.116 g/mL) was used at room temperature to separate human spermatozoa fractions in order to determine differences in chromatin stainability. The stainability was measured by analysis of DNA fluorochrome uptake by flow cytometry using human peripheral blood lymphocytes as an internal standard. A significant difference in chromatin stainability was noted between the residual fraction (immobile spermatozoa remaining at the top of the Percoll gradient) (44.2%) and the selected one (highly mobile spermatozoa harvested in the 90% and 100% steps) (36.3%). The sperm DNA heterogeneity, as defined by the coefficient of variation (CV), was significantly lower for the selected fraction as compared to the residual one (CV = 12.8% versus 15.4%). A marginal population of spermatozoa adjacent to the germinal peak was also identified. The percentage of this marginal population was significantly lower for the selected fraction as compared to the residual one (7.4% versus 22%). Using a biochemical in vitro decondensation method, the chromatin stainability of the selected and residual fractions (56.9% versus 62.9%) was also determined, demonstrating that the chromatin of the selected fraction was less stainable. This study confirmed that Percoll centrifugation selects a germinal population that is denser and less stainable than with other techniques and analyzed the relation between density, high mobility and probable capacitation.
Development of a parent questionnaire for assessment of auditory behaviour of infants up to two years of age]	There is an increasing need for an instrument, which allows to quickly and reliably assess the auditory behaviour of infants and toddlers. SCIENTIFIC QUESTION AND OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to develop and validate the "LittlEARS Hearing Questionnaire", a tool for assessing auditory behaviour in children up to 24 months of age.
Characterization of cartilaginous tumors with 201Tl scintigraphy.	Histological diagnosis and grading of cartilaginous tumors are closely correlated with patient prognosis; consequently, they are essential elements. We attempted to clarify the characteristics of 201Tl uptake in various histological types of cartilaginous tumors and to assess its clinical value.
Correlation between serum CEA level and metabolic volume as determined by FDG PET in postoperative patients with recurrent colorectal cancer.	To determine the correlation between serum CEA level and the metabolic volume by FDG PET in postoperative patients with recurrent colorectal cancer, FDG PET was performed in 29 consecutive patients with recurrent or metastatic colorectal cancer whose CEA levels were higher than 5 ng/ml. A whole body emission scan was performed 60 minutes after injecting 370-555 MBq of F-18 FDG. "PET volume" and "PET metabolic volume" of tumors were measured on FDG PET images. Based on an isocontour plot of tumor mass at 2.5 SUV (standardized uptake value), the metabolically active tumor "PET volume" was calculated. "PET metabolic volume" was obtained by multiplying the "PET volume" by the mean SUV of the tumor. All recurrent or metastatic lesions were single or multiple lesions of measurable size (axial diameter > 1 cm, minimum "PET volume" 3.5 cm3), and were verified by operation or by other imaging modalities (CT or MRI). There was a linear associations between "PET volume" and serum CEA level. Further regression analysis by least squares showed a highly significant model with an equation of volume = 41.2 + 0.471 x CEA (r2 = 0.629). However, no such association was found between "PET metabolic volume" and serum CEA level according to the residual normality test. In conclusion, "PET volume" measured by FDG PET and serum CEA level in colorectal cancer are significantly correlated. Tumor volume determined by FDG PET can be used as an effective marker of tumor burden in postoperative patients with colorectal carcinoma.
Working memory capacity, indirect semantic priming, and stroop interference: pattern of interindividual prefrontal performance differences in healthy volunteers.	Using neuropsychological models of prefrontal function, the authors investigated the pattern of interindividual prefrontal performance differences in healthy volunteers. Using a correlation and an extreme group approach, they compared verbal and visuospatial working memory capacity with performance on the Stroop interference task as a measure of executive control and on the direct and indirect semantic priming tasks as a measure of semantic access. Subjects with low visuospatial working memory capacity exhibited increased Stroop interference Subjects with low verbal memory capacity showed increased priming and Stroop interference only. The study shows that prefrontal functioning varies interindividually, forming patterns of performance differences. These findings suggest that working memory, executive control, and semantic retrieval are functionally related to some extent.
The operational validity of a video-based situational judgment test for medical college admissions: illustrating the importance of matching predictor and criterion construct domains.	This study is part of a trend of examining noncognitive predictors, for example, a situational judgment test (SJT), as supplements to cognitive predictors for making college admission decisions. The authors examined criterion data over multiple academic years and universities. The criterion domain was broadly conceptualized, including both cognitive and interpersonal domains. The sample consisted of 7,197 candidates of the Medical and Dental Studies Admission Exam in Belgium. Results confirmed the importance of cognitive predictors. A video-based SJT was differentially valid for predicting overall grade point average for different curricula. The SJT showed incremental validity over cognitively oriented measures for curricula that included interpersonal courses, but not for other curricula. The SJT became more valid through the years. This demonstrates the importance of carefully specifying predictor- criterion linkages and of differentiating both predictor and criterion constructs.
Oculomotor changes are associated to daytime sleepiness in the multiple sleep latency test.	Sleep onsets in the diurnal multiple sleep latency test (MSLT), following different sleep lengths of the preceding night sleep (8, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 h) and following the corresponding recovery nights, were considered for a study on changes of oculomotor activity during sleep onset. The study aimed to assess the individual time course in spontaneous blinks (SBs) and slow eye movements (SEMs) during the sleep onset period and also the relationship with sleep latencies in the MSLT. Group analyses compared oculomotor changes between conditions characterized by a different level of daytime sleepiness. The results show a clear inverse relation between the two oculomotor measures, with a linear SB decrease and quadratic SEM increase across the wake-sleep transition. A 150 s sample of SB and SEM activity at the start of MSLT trials correlates with individual subsequent sleep latency. Finally, mean changes in daytime sleepiness as measured by the MSLT are paralleled by coherent oculomotor changes, with a significant linear decrease of SB as sleepiness increases as a consequence of previous sleep reduction. Both individual and group results show that endogenous blinking is associated with moderate changes in daytime sleepiness.
Symptoms of sleep disturbance in persons with Alzheimer's disease and normal elderly.	We retrospectively analyzed sleep time and sleep disturbance symptoms in 399 healthy, non-demented elderly (NDE) and 263 persons with a diagnosis of possible (n = 53) or probable (n = 210) Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our primary objective was to determine differences in subjective sleep disturbance between these samples. Secondary objectives were to determine if subjects with time in bed (TIB) < or =6 h per night reported more sleep disturbance and whether sleep complaints were associated with more severe cognitive and/or functional impairment. The prevalence of 'sleep problems' (a single item) was significantly lower in NDE (18.3%) than AD (27.6%), and the proportions of each cohort reporting TIB < or =6 h per night were very low (NDE: 6.0%; AD: 3.5%) and not significantly different. Less TIB was correlated with better cognitive function for AD (P < 0.01), and cognition and function were significantly worse for AD subjects with estimates of >6 h of TIB compared with those with estimates of < or =6 h (P < 0.05). Greater sleep disturbance was correlated with greater functional impairment in both cohorts; but only in AD did greater estimated TIB also correlate with greater functional impairment (all P < 0.05). In general, estimated TIB was not associated with mood in either cohort; however, in both cohorts depression was significantly associated with sleep disturbance symptoms and was significantly worse in those who reported having 'sleep problems'. There was no association between subjective perception of 'sleep problems', the number and frequency of sleep disturbance symptoms, and estimated TIB in either group.
Gene expression profiling to characterize anticancer drug sensitivity.	This chapter presents a protocol for using cDNA microarrays to acquire gene expression profiles that characterize anticancer drug sensitivity. The protocol includes steps for drug exposure, RNA isolation, preparation of fluorescently labeled samples, microarray hybridization, data processing, and data analysis. In addition to the detailed protocol, important experimental design issues are discussed, and some preliminary experiments are recommended.
Correlation between mechanical vibration analysis and dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) in the measurement of in vivo human tibial bone strength.	It is assumed that bone mineral density (BMD) measurement by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) has its limitation in identifying bone strength, and therefore other methods should be developed. Non-invasive strength measurement, which is needed to diagnose and monitor metabolic bone diseases such as osteoporosis, can become an alternative to current methods. In this study, mechanical vibration analysis was compared to BMD measured by DXA in human female tibia. Seven mother (Ms) and daughter (Ds) pairs' (total n = 14) left and right tibiae were evaluated by DXA and mechanical vibration analysis. Mechanical vibration analysis was consistent in the same bone and also in both sides. Correlation between BMD measured by DXA and vibration analysis was found in the Ds and Ms groups; the former being stronger than the latter. Natural frequencies of the Ms group were higher than that of the Ds group, and the response velocity of the Ds group was shorter than that of the Ms group. It is concluded that mechanical vibration analysis is consistent in bones and a correlation between BMD measured by DXA and vibration analysis can be established in young females that may be used in field studies to predict peak bone strength.
Reliability of an inclinometric method for assessment of body sway.	Falling related injuries are associated with morbidity and mortality among older persons. An accurate and comparable assessment of postural sway may offer a method for detecting those at risk for falling. Our purpose was to assess the validity and repeatability of an inclinometric method in assessing postural sway during quiet standing. To assess repeatability, 51 elderly women (aged 72 to 74 years) were measured twice by the same tester. To assess validity, postural sway in 29 elderly subjects (aged 69 to 86 years) was assessed using simultaneously the inclinometric and a force platform method. The test-retest reliability correlation of the inclinometric method was high for sway path length (coefficient of determination r(2) = 0.683), and moderate for sway area (r(2) = 0.500) and the analysis revealed no sign of bias. The correlation was moderate between the values of the inclinometric sway path length and those of the force platform for antero-posterior (r(2) = 0.466), lateral (r(2) = 0.694) and combined lateral and antero-posterior (r(2) = 0.623) directional sway movements. The inclinometric method offers an accurate and repeatable method for assessing postural sway and may be a feasible method to be used in the risk stratification of falling.
The detection and tracing of melodic key changes.	Adjusting to key changes in music is vital to a listener's understanding of it, although it is unclear when this adjustment occurs. In three experiments, participants heard obscure melodies that sometimes contained key changes. Both the number of notes after the change and the change distance were manipulated. For one task, the participants were explicitly asked to detect a change. For another task, the participants rated probe tones. These ratings allowed us to trace the listeners' multiple representations of keys. Results suggest that old keys were abruptly abandoned but that new keys were accepted gradually. More distant key changes (e.g., C-F#) were associated with more accurate detection of change, as well as with more time being required to adapt to the new key.
Is there a relevant effect of noise and smoking on hearing? A population-based aging study.	The objectives of the present study were to evaluate both the respective and combined effects of occupational noise exposure and smoking on hearing, taking age into consideration. The evaluation was conducted using 1478 subjects without a history of ear disease out of a population-based sample of 2267 adults, aged 40 79 years. Pure-tone audiometry and a questionnaire were administered. A deleterious effect of noise exposure on hearing was significantly observed in both genders at many frequencies after adjustment for age, income, and education. The smoking habit alone significantly affected hearing deterioration at 4000 Hz in noise-unexposed males. The combined effect of noise and smoking was not interactive but additive. A dose-response effect of smoking on hearing loss was observed in middle-aged males without noise exposure. Smoking and noise exposure were associated with hearing loss respectively.. This result is noteworthy for the preservation of good hearing especially at the beginning of aging.
Nanoparticle size-dependent lowering of temperature for phase transition from In(OH)3 to In2O3.	Phase transformation of In(OH)3 to In2O3 has been studied as a function of nanoparticle size without any alteration of nanoparticle size during transformation. Chemically capped In(OH)3 nanoparticles having sizes of 15, 11, and 8 nm transform to In2O3 at temperatures of 285, 272, and 255 degrees C, respectively. This first-time unambiguous observation of size-dependent lowering of transformation temperature represents a thermodynamic characteristic of the nanoparticle system. The results have been explained in terms of a lower cohesive energy of surface atoms and an increase in surface-to-volume ratio with a decrease in nanoparticle size.
A DNA solution of SAT problem by a modified sticker model.	Among various DNA computing algorithms, it is very common to create an initial data pool that covers correct and incorrect answers at first place followed by a series of selection process to destroy the incorrect ones. The surviving DNA sequences are read as the solutions to the problem. However, algorithms based on such a brute force search will be limited to the problem size. That is, as the number of parameters in the studied problem grows, eventually the algorithm becomes impossible owing to the tremendous initial data pool size. In this theoretical work, we modify a well-known sticker model to design an algorithm that does not require an initial data pool for SAT problem. We propose to build solution sequences in parts to satisfy one clause in a step, and eventually solve the whole Boolean formula after a number of steps. Accordingly, the size of data pool grows from one sort of molecule to the number of solution assignments. The proposed algorithm is expected to provide a solution to SAT problem and become practical as the problem size scales up.
Synergy, redundancy, and independence in population codes, revisited.	Decoding the activity of a population of neurons is a fundamental problem in neuroscience. A key aspect of this problem is determining whether correlations in the activity, i.e., noise correlations, are important. If they are important, then the decoding problem is high dimensional: decoding algorithms must take the correlational structure in the activity into account. If they are not important, or if they play a minor role, then the decoding problem can be reduced to lower dimension and thus made more tractable. The issue of whether correlations are important has been a subject of heated debate. The debate centers around the validity of the measures used to address it. Here, we evaluate three of the most commonly used ones: synergy, DeltaI(shuffled), and DeltaI. We show that synergy and DeltaI(shuffled) are confounded measures: they can be zero when correlations are clearly important for decoding and positive when they are not. In contrast, DeltaI is not confounded. It is zero only when correlations are not important for decoding and positive only when they are; that is, it is zero only when one can decode exactly as well using a decoder that ignores correlations as one can using a decoder that does not, and it is positive only when one cannot decode as well. Finally, we show that DeltaI has an information theoretic interpretation; it is an upper bound on the information lost when correlations are ignored.
Early neural correlates of conscious somatosensory perception.	The cortical processing of consciously perceived and unperceived somatosensory stimuli is thought to be identical during the first 100-120 ms after stimulus onset. Thereafter, the electrophysiological correlates of conscious perception have been shown to be reflected in the N1 component of the evoked response as well as in later (>200 ms) nonstimulus-locked gamma-band (28-50 Hz) oscillatory activity. To evaluate more specifically the time course and correlation of neuronal oscillations with conscious perception, we recorded neuromagnetic responses to threshold-intensity somatosensory stimuli. We show here that cortical broadband activities phase locked to the subsequently perceived stimuli in somatosensory, frontal, and parietal regions as early as 30-70 ms from stimulus onset, whereas the phase locking to the unperceived stimuli was weak and primarily restricted to somatosensory regions. Such stimulus locking also preceded the perceived stimuli, indicating that the phase of ongoing cortical activities biases subsequent perception. Furthermore, the data show that the stimulus locking was present in the theta- (4-8 Hz), alpha- (8-14 Hz), beta- (14-28 Hz), and gamma- (28-40 Hz) frequency bands, of which the widespread alpha-band component was dominant for the consciously perceived stimuli but virtually unobservable for the unperceived stimuli. Our results show that the neural correlates of conscious perception are already found during the earliest stages of cortical processing from 30 to 150 ms after stimulus onset and suggest that alpha-frequency-band oscillations have a role in the neural mechanisms of sensory awareness.
Mining for regulatory programs in the cancer transcriptome.	DNA microarrays have been widely applied to cancer transcriptome analysis. The Oncomine database contains a large collection of such data, as well as hundreds of derived gene-expression signatures. We studied the regulatory mechanisms responsible for gene deregulation in these cancer signatures by searching for the coordinate regulation of genes with common transcription factor binding sites. We found that genes with binding sites for the archetypal cancer transcription factor, E2F, were disproportionately overexpressed in a wide variety of cancers, whereas genes with binding sites for other transcription factors, such as Myc-Max, c-Rel and ATF, were disproportionately overexpressed in specific cancer types. These results suggest that alterations in pathways activating these transcription factors may be responsible for the observed gene deregulation and cancer pathogenesis.
Array comparative genomic hybridization and its applications in cancer.	Alteration in DNA copy number is one of the many ways in which gene expression and function may be modified. Some variations are found among normal individuals, others occur in the course of normal processes in some species and still others participate in causing various disease states. For example, many defects in human development are due to gains and losses of chromosomes and chromosomal segments that occur before or shortly after fertilization, and DNA dosage-alteration changes occurring in somatic cells are frequent contributors to cancer. Detecting these aberrations and interpreting them in the context of broader knowledge facilitates the identification of crucial genes and pathways involved in biological processes and disease. Over the past several years, array comparative genomic hybridization has proven its value for analyzing DNA copy-number variations. Here, we discuss the state of the art of array comparative genomic hybridization and its applications in cancer, emphasizing general concepts rather than specific results.
Choice and consequence: measurement level determines the statistical tool-box]	Various types of data are used in health and behavioural sciences. Some of the variables, such as blood variables, can be measured by standardised, calibrated methods while others are based on subjective judgements from an expert or from the patients. There is a strong link between the measurement process and the choice of statistical toolbox. The statistically important measurement levels are; categorical, ordinal, quantitative discrete and quantitative continuous data. Special attention should be paid to non-negative quantitative data, and to ordinal data which are very common in medicine. In this paper the properties of the measurement levels are given and their consequences on the choice of statistical methods for description and analysis.
Cholinergic parameters and the retrieval of learned and re-learned spatial information: a study using a model of Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome.	This is a factorial (2 x 2 x 2) spatial memory and cholinergic parameters study in which the factors are chronic ethanol, thiamine deficiency and naivety in Morris water maze task. Both learning and retention of the spatial version of the water maze were assessed. To assess retrograde retention of spatial information, half of the rats were pre-trained on the maze before the treatment manipulations of pyrithiamine (PT)-induced thiamine deficiency and post-tested after treatment (pre-trained group). The other half of the animals was only trained after treatment to assess anterograde amnesia (post-trained group). Thiamine deficiency, associated to chronic ethanol treatment, had a significant deleterious effect on spatial memory performance of post-trained animals. The biochemical data revealed that chronic ethanol treatment reduced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the hippocampus while leaving the neocortex unchanged, whereas thiamine deficiency reduced both cortical and hippocampal AChE activity. Regarding basal and stimulated cortical acetylcholine (ACh) release, both chronic ethanol and thiamine deficiency treatments had significant main effects. Significant correlations were found between both cortical and hippocampal AChE activity and behaviour parameters for pre-trained but not for post-trained animals. Also for ACh release, the correlation found was significant only for pre-trained animals. These biochemical parameters were decreased by thiamine deficiency and chronic ethanol treatment, both in pre-trained and post-trained animals. But the correlation with the behavioural parameters was observed only for pre-trained animals, that is, those that were retrained and assessed for retrograde retention.
Motor improvements after focal cortical ischemia in adult rats are mediated by compensatory mechanisms.	Initial functional impairments after cerebral ischemia often improve considerably during the early period after the insult. Although pathological changes associated with post-lesion improvements have been widely investigated, it has not been resolved whether behavioral improvement represents true restoration of function (recovery) or development of new strategies (compensation). This study investigated whether early motor improvements after focal cerebral ischemia reflect recovery or compensation. Adult female Wistar rats were trained to retrieve food pellets in a skilled reaching task prior to receiving a unilateral cortical infarction induced by photothrombosis in forelimb motor cortex. Animals were continuously tested in the reaching task up to 3 weeks after lesion. The end point measures revealed that reaching success rates remained at pre-lesion levels, however, qualitative analysis of reaching movements indicated permanent changes in forelimb movement patterns. Similar observations were made in a skilled walking task and a test for forelimb asymmetry. These data indicate that lesion animals adopted alternative movement strategies in order to successfully perform the tasks. The changes in postoperative performance were compared to anatomical data in individual animals. The finding that reaching success was not related to lesion size supports the idea that the degree of adaptive behavior after cortical ischemia depends on plastic properties of the remaining intact tissue.
Correlation between blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery and EEG during cognitive effort.	Cognitive effort modifies blood flow velocity (BFV) in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) which can be recorded by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD). EEG parameters can be used as indicators of cortical activation. To find temporal and spatial relation between circulatory and bioelectric phenomena, we used combined EEG and TCD measurements during cognitive experiments. Bilateral BFV in the MCAs and 16-channel scalp EEG were recorded during mental arithmetic (MA) and verbal fluency (VF) tests in 12 healthy volunteers. Temporal profile of BFV, heart rate (HR), EEG central frequency (CF), relative alpha power (ralphap), and laterality index (Li) for BFV and CF were statistically analysed. During mental effort, BFV changes showed a reproducible pattern, which was different in MA and VF tests. The Li(BFV) correlated with handedness in 9/12 subjects (75%) in the VF, and in 6/12 subjects (50%) in the MA test. Significant correlation was found between Li(BFV) and Li(CF) during VF (r(2) = 0.69). Li was more indicative for the hemispheric dominance in the VF than in the MA test. During VF test, correlation between HR and BFV was significant in 7/12 subjects. CF and ralphap provide real time assessment of the functional state of the brain tissue during cognition. The correlation between CF and BFV during mental activity suggests a short latency neurogenic and a long latency, supposedly chemical regulation of regional blood flow. Parallel analysis of EEG and flow parameters increases the confidence of determining hemispheric dominance and provides an alternative to study physiological consequences of cognitive processes.
Human muscle hardness assessment during incremental isometric contraction using transient elastography.	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between biceps brachii hardness using the transient elastography technique, and its activity level by quantifying the surface electromyographic signal (sEMG). Ten healthy subjects volunteered for this protocol. To assess the maximal biceps brachii myoelectric activity (sEMG-RMSm), subjects had to achieve their maximal voluntary contraction trial during an elbow flexion effort. They were then asked to perform an isometric biceps sEMG-RMS ramp trial in elbow flexion from 0% to 50% of their sEMG-RMSm in 120 s. A low-frequency pulse was sent every 5 s during all trials by an innovative shear elasticity probe previously placed over the belly of the biceps brachii allowing the calculation of a transverse shear modulus. The main results of this study were (i) the finding of a systematic linear relationship between the biceps brachii transverse shear moduli and the corresponding sEMG-RMS values. This was not the case when plotting transverse shear modulus versus the elbow flexion torque production. Therefore, the computation of a hardness index from the slope of individual transverse shear modulus-sEMG-RMS linear relationship was enabled; (ii) It was also found that the higher is the rest shear modulus, the lower is the hardness index, indicating that the transverse shear modulus change during contraction depends on its level at rest. Therefore, this non-invasive technique could be useful in the medical field to explore deep muscles which are unreachable by classical testing methods. It could also be applied for the follow-up of neuromuscular diseases inducing stiffness changes such as in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Types of bioequivalence and related statistical considerations.	Approval of a generic alternative to an existing formulation carries the implication that the two formulations are "equivalent". However, there are many notions of equivalent. Current practice in bioequivalence studies defines equivalence solely in terms of average (or median) measures of bioavailability. Current methods for this average bioequivalence approach are commonly based on the two one-sided tests principle. Average bioequivalence is the special case of population bioequivalence, where the entire distribution of bioavailabilities is considered. Statistical approaches for population bioequivalence are suggested. Population bioequivalence is an improvement over average bioequivalence, because average bioequivalence does not consider the variabilities of the formulations. However, population bioequivalence is still not sufficient to ensure that an individual will respond similarly to the two formulations; that requires individual bioequivalence. Again, statistical approaches are suggested, one of which, a tolerance interval approach, appears to directly address the clinical question of switchability of formulations. We conclude that population bioequivalence is sufficient for marketing approval, but that individual bioequivalence is necessary for switchability.
Correlation between choline and MIB-1 index in human gliomas. A quantitative in proton MR spectroscopy study.	Choline (Cho) containing compounds are usually evaluated using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) by relative ratios such as Cho/N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and Cho/creatine (Cre) ratios. To clarify the significance of Cho level in gliomas, we evaluated the quantified Cho level using MRS and compared it with the proliferation activity as determined by MIB-1 immunoreactivity in the histological specimen.
Validation of a subjective quality of life questionnaire (S.QUA.LA) in schizophrenia.	We developed and validated a self-administered questionnaire (Subjective Quality of Life Analysis, S.QUA.L.A.) to measure subjective quality of life. S.QUA.L.A. is a multidimensional instrument. This scale includes 22 domains of life. It covers traditional areas (food, family relation etc)., and more abstract aspects of life (politic, justice, freedom, truth, beauty and art, love). For each domain, patients are asked to evaluate their degree of satisfaction. They have also to indicate how important this domain is for them. We questioned 92 patients with schizophrenia and 357 para-medical students. The research demonstrated reproducibility, high internal consistency reliability, and sensitivity to change. Principal components analysis with varimax rotation was performed. A five-factor solution was selected, showing a great contribution of different dimensions of the self. Determinants of quality of life were identified by using correlations with Lehman's Quality of Life Interview (QOLI), and with measures of psychopathology and social functioning. Satisfaction approach and QOLI showed the same construct. We confirmed the influence of symptoms of depression and anxiety on subjective quality of life assessment, and the poor impact of disease parameters.
Hearing impairment and psychosis revisited.	The previously reported but still poorly investigated link between deafness or hearing impairment (DHI) and the onset of positive psychotic experiences was investigated prospectively in a general population sample. Of the 109 DHI subjects at baseline, 11 (10.1%) displayed psychotic experiences at T(2) versus 137 (2.9%) of the non-DHI subjects (OR=3.8, 95% CI: 2.0, 7.2). This effect size was only slightly attenuated after adjustment for baseline psychotic experiences (OR=3.2, 95% CI: 1.6, 6.5) and after adjustment for T(0) psychotic experiences and a range of other confounders (OR=3.0, 95% CI: 1.4, 6.2) These results confirm previous findings of an association between hearing impairments and psychosis and show that this association can also be found prospectively in a nonclinical population.
Childhood growth and future development of psychotic disorder among Helsinki high-risk children.	The Helsinki High-Risk (HR) Study is a follow-up study of offspring (born between 1960 and 1964) of all females treated for schizophrenia spectrum disorders in mental hospitals in Helsinki before 1975, and controls.
Smoking initiation and schizophrenia: a replication study in a Spanish sample.	In a prior US study, schizophrenia vulnerability was associated with higher risk of initiating daily smoking after 20 years of age. A survival analysis of onset age of daily smoking compared 290 controls with 250 consecutive DSM-IV schizophrenia patients from outpatient facilities at an urban catchment area in Spain. After controlling for gender and education, the cumulative hazard curves for smoking initiation age of controls and schizophrenia patients were significantly different. After age 20, smoking initiation rates were higher in all schizophrenia patients (and in 107 schizophrenia patients who started daily smoking at least 5 years before illness onset).
Correlates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in a prison population.	Prisons represent a crucial setting for tuberculosis control. Currently, there is scarce information concerning Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MT) infection in European prisons, and no data are available for Italy. This study aims to describe the prevalence and correlates of MT infection in an Italian prison population. In this multicentre cross-sectional study, 1,247 inmates from nine prisons were recruited and asked to undergo questioning regarding socio-economic and demographic variables, tuberculin skin testing (TST), chest radiographs and testing for HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C virus infection. TST was positive in 17.9% of the 448 evaluable subjects. With multivariate logistic regression (performed among male inmates), MT infection was correlated with age (adjusted odds ratio (OR) 4.12 for inmates aged 31-40 yrs; 3.78 for those aged >40 yrs), being foreign-born (OR = 4.9), education < or =5 yrs (OR = 1.88) and length of detention (increased risk per yr: 11%). As with elsewhere in the world, the prison system in Italy features a population with an increased rate of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection and at-risk rate for Mycobacterium tuberculosis transmission. Improved tuberculosis surveillance and control measures are deemed necessary in correctional facilities nationwide, especially for subjects with the above risk factors and those who are HIV infected, in whom the tuberculin skin testing can be misleading. The screening of entrants is particularly important to avoid undiagnosed smear-positive tuberculosis cases.
Estimation of trans-resveratrol in herbal extracts and dosage forms by high-performance thin-layer chromatography.	A simple, sensitive and precise high-performance thin-layer chromatographic (HPTLC) method of analysis of trans-resveratrol in Polygonum cuspidatum root extracts and in dosage forms was developed and validated. The separation was carried out on a TLC aluminium plates precoated with silica gel 60F-254 as the stationary phase, eluted with chloroform-ethylacetate-formic acid (2.5 : 1 : 0.1) as mobile phase. Densitometric analysis of trans-resveratrol was carried out in the absorbance mode at 313 nm. This system was found to give compact spot for trans-resveratrol (Rf value of 0.40+/-0.03). A good linear regression relationship between peak areas and the concentrations was obtained over the range of 0.5-3.0 microg/spot with correlation coefficient 0.9989. The limit of detection and quantification was found to be 9 and 27 ng/spot. The method was validated for precision and recovery. The spike recoveries were within 99.85 to 100.70%. The RSD values of the precision in the range 0.37-1.84%. The proposed developed HPTLC method can be applied for identification and quantitative determination of trans-resveratrol in herbal extracts and dosage forms.
An entropy-based statistic for genomewide association studies.	Efficient genotyping methods and the availability of a large collection of single-nucleotide polymorphisms provide valuable tools for genetic studies of human disease. The standard chi2 statistic for case-control studies, which uses a linear function of allele frequencies, has limited power when the number of marker loci is large. We introduce a novel test statistic for genetic association studies that uses Shannon entropy and a nonlinear function of allele frequencies to amplify the differences in allele and haplotype frequencies to maintain statistical power with large numbers of marker loci. We investigate the relationship between the entropy-based test statistic and the standard chi2 statistic and show that, in most cases, the power of the entropy-based statistic is greater than that of the standard chi2 statistic. The distribution of the entropy-based statistic and the type I error rates are validated using simulation studies. Finally, we apply the new entropy-based test statistic to two real data sets, one for the COMT gene and schizophrenia and one for the MMP-2 gene and esophageal carcinoma, to evaluate the performance of the new method for genetic association studies. The results show that the entropy-based statistic obtained smaller P values than did the standard chi2 statistic.
Correlating nerve conduction studies and clinical outcome measures on carpal tunnel syndrome: lessons from a randomized controlled trial.	The reported relationships between nerve conduction studies (NCS) and outcome measures in carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) are weak to moderate. However, selection of patients may have confounded nonrandomized studies. NCS have potentially great value in selecting patients for a specific treatment and in objectively assessing the efficacy of treatments in CTS, especially if they correlate significantly with clinical outcome measures. To investigate the relationship between clinical outcome measures for the severity of complaints and NCS in patients treated for CTS, data were obtained from a multicenter randomized controlled trial on the efficacy of splinting versus surgery for CTS. At baseline and 12 months after randomization, clinical outcome measures were assessed and NCS were performed. In total, 138 patients completed the questionnaires and underwent repeated NCS. Relationships were analyzed with Spearman rank correlation coefficients and Pearson correlation coefficients. All NCS parameters showed highly significant improvement compared with baseline (P < 0.001). Modest correlations (< 0.4) were found between the neurophysiologic and clinical outcome measures after 12 months, and between the changes in these different categories of outcome measures. This study confirms that the parameters of NCS improve significantly after treatment for CTS, but the modest correlations between neurophysiologic and clinical outcome measures do not support that NCS are routinely performed in clinical practice to evaluate treatment effects. However, studies investigating the effects of treatment for CTS should incorporate both clinical outcome measures and NCS, because they are complementary. Furthermore, NCS can provide additional information to the clinician when treatment effects are unsatisfactory.
Determination of sensitive electrophysiologic parameters at follow-up of different steroid treatments of carpal tunnel syndrome.	Nonsurgical treatment for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is frequently offered to those with mild to moderate symptoms. However, the most sensitive electrophysiological parameters at follow-up, and most effective type of different methods of steroid treatment for CTS, remain unknown. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of local corticosteroid injection, phonophoresis, and iontophoresis for the treatment of CTS, and to evaluate the most sensitive electrophysiologic parameters at the follow-up visit. Different conservative treatments were applied in this prospective study. Fifty-six hands of 31 patients were randomly treated with local steroid injection, iontophoresis, or phonophoresis with 2- and 4-month follow-up visits. Conventional and new neurophysiologic sensorimotor nerve conduction parameters for CTS diagnosis were performed on the initial visit and at 2 and 4 months after treatment. The local steroid injection group showed a significant improvement in the mean nerve conduction parameters after the second and fourth months when compared with basal values, whereas no significant changes except the difference between the median and ulnar distal latency to the fourth digit (D4M-D4U), difference between sensory median distal latency to second digit and ulnar distal latency to the fifth digit (D2M-D5U), and median motor distal latency were observed in the iontophoresis and phonophoresis groups. At the end of follow-up period, the most sensitive parameters were D4M-D4U and D2M-D5U; the D4M-D4U was improved 60% in the injection group, 33% in iontophoresis group, and 39% in phonophoresis group, and the improvement of the D2M-D5U was 70%, 28%, and 28%, respectively, in the injection, iontophoresis, and phonophoresis groups. These findings show that steroid injection is superior to iontophoresis and phonophoresis in the treatment of CTS, and that the most sensitive neurophysiologic parameters in follow-up are D4M-D4U and D2M-D5U, being the objective measures of the outcome of CTS treatment.
Development of a brief scale to measure AIDS-related stigma in South Africa.	Although there has been progress in AIDS stigma research, there are no multi-item AIDS stigma scales that have been shown reliable and valid in Africa. The current research reports the development of the nine-item AIDS-Related Stigma Scale. Research conducted in five South African communities (N = 2306) found the scale internally consistent, alpha = 0.75 and time stable over 3 months, r = 0.67. The scale was also reliable in three different languages (English, Xhosa, and Afrikaans). Correlations showed that the AIDS-Related Stigma Scale was moderately inversely correlated with years of education and AIDS knowledge. In addition, individuals who stated that HIV positive persons should conceal their HIV status had higher AIDS-Related Stigma Scale scores. Also supporting the scale's construct validity, individuals who refused to report whether they had been tested for HIV scored higher on the AIDS-Related Stigma Scale.
Intimate partner violence and monogamy among women in methadone treatment.	It is now becoming clear how important it is to understand women's HIV risk in the context of their sexual relationships with male partners, particularly among more vulnerable populations of women such as drug-involved women and women with physically abusive partners. Drawing from in-depth interviews with a sample of 38 ethnically diverse women, this study explores the meanings of monogamy and concurrent sexual partnerships in the relationships of women in methadone treatment with a history of physical abuse. Moreover, the ways in which having a history of intimate partner violence influences women's desire and ability to insist on monogamy is addressed. The women's narratives indicated that the majority valued monogamy and reported practicing it; however, many women were indifferent to this ideal or were unable to challenge non-monogamous partners for fear of severe reprisals. In addition, men's suspicions about violations of monogamy on the part of the women often resulted in extreme violence.
Radiocaesium in flowing waters of highly contaminated Austrian alpine areas.	In this study the runoff of (137)Cs, mainly originated from the Chernobyl fallout, from highly contaminated alpine regions in Salzburg (Austria) is discussed. Twenty-five water-samples and 25 sediment-samples were taken from creeks of different size to determine the runoff of dissolved (137)Cs and Cs-binding characteristics to different particle size classes in the sediments. The hypothesis, that specific activity of the sediments depended on particle size and the surface of the particle, was proved with some modifications. Caesium activity concentration in water showed a negative correlation with electrical conductivity, while no significant correlations were detectable with other variables (pH, temperature, and altitude). Enormous differences and the variations found in the (137)Cs-concentrations in water can be explained by the electrical conductivity without any dependency on the inventory of the catchment. The sediment samples analysed showed a negative correlation between specific activity [Bq/kg] and particle-diameter, mainly explained by (137)Cs-uptake proportional to the particle surface per mass.
Issues in relation to the repeatability of and correlation between EMG and Borg scale assessments of neck muscle fatigue.	The repeatability of subjective and objective assessments of neck muscle fatigue is very important with regard to the clinical applicability of these methods.
Repeatability of surface EMG parameters at various isometric contraction levels and during fatigue using bipolar and Laplacian electrode configurations.	The objective of this work was to assess the repeatability of two surface electromyographic (sEMG) recording techniques, the classical bipolar configuration and a Laplacian configuration to document their ability to provide reliable information during follow-up studies. The signals were recorded on 10 healthy subjects during voluntary isometric contractions of the biceps brachii muscle at different constant contraction levels. Slopes, area ratios (at 60% of the maximal voluntary contraction (MVC)) and initial values (at 20%, 40%, 60%, 80% and 100% MVC) of the root mean square (RMS), the mean power frequency (MPF) and the muscle fibre conduction velocity (CV) were estimated. Experimental sessions were repeated on three different days with both electrode sets to evaluate the repeatability of sEMG parameter estimates. Classical results were observed, such as an increase in the RMS and the CV with the contraction level. Only initial values of RMS and MPF were shown to be dependent on electrode type. These two parameters presented intra-class correlation coefficient values higher than .80 for high contraction levels. On the whole, the repeatability of the measures was good; however it was better for all sEMG parameter estimates with bipolar electrodes than Laplacian electrodes. Because a bipolar configuration is less selective than a Laplacian one, it provides a global view of muscular activity, which is more repeatable, hence more suitable for follow-up studies.
Effects of minimum sampling rate and signal reconstruction on surface electromyographic signals.	Signal oversampling is frequently used to prevent distortion in time-series representations. When sampling at rates just above the Nyquist critical frequency (f(c)), Shannon's reconstruction theorem provides an alternative means of circumventing this problem. The purpose of this study was to determine whether surface electromyographic (EMG) data is compromised when sampled just above f(c) and whether Shannon's reconstruction theorem can correct these deficiencies, if present. Brief isometric elbow flexion contractions were performed at 100%, 80%, 50%, 25%, 10%, 5% and 2.5% maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) followed by one trial of random cyclic isometric contractions and relaxations. The 2kHz signal was resampled at 1kHz and the 2 and 1kHz signals were reconstructed (2RS and 1RS, respectively) to a sampling rate of 20kHz. Data were full-wave rectified (FWR) and low-pass filtered (LE). Peak amplitudes of the FWR and LE signals, average EMG (AEMG) amplitudes of the FWR and LE signals, mean power frequency of the raw data, number of gaps, and mean gap time of the LE signals were calculated. Significant differences were present in peak EMG and AEMG measurements between the 1 and 2kHz, 2RS and 20kHz signals and occasionally between the 1RS and the 2kHz, 2RS and 20kHz signals. These differences, although statistically significant were quite small amounting to less than 0.5% MVC. No significant differences were found for the gaps parameters. The small differences seen, coupled with the processing time required for signal reconstruction, make oversampling as well as signal reconstruction in surface EMG measurements unnecessary.
The effects of interelectrode distance on electromyographic amplitude and mean power frequency during isokinetic and isometric muscle actions of the biceps brachii.	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of interelectrode distance (IED) on the absolute and normalized electromyographic (EMG) amplitude and mean power frequency (MPF) versus isokinetic and isometric torque relationships for the biceps brachii muscle. Ten adults [mean+/-SD age=22.0+/-3.4 years] performed submaximal to maximal, isokinetic and isometric muscle actions of the dominant forearm flexors. Following determination of isokinetic peak torque (PT) and the isometric maximum voluntary contraction (MVC), the subjects performed randomly ordered, submaximal step muscle actions in 10% increments from 10% to 90% PT and MVC. Surface EMG signals were recorded simultaneously from bipolar electrode arrangements placed over the biceps brachii muscle with IEDs of 20, 40, and 60mm. Absolute and normalized EMG amplitude (muVrms and %max) increased linearly with torque during the isokinetic and isometric muscle actions (r(2) range=0.988-0.998), but there were no significant changes for absolute or normalized EMG MPF (Hz or %max) from 10% to 100% PT and MVC. In some cases, there were significant (p<0.05) differences among the three IED arrangements for absolute EMG amplitude and MPF values, but not for the normalized values. These findings suggested that for the biceps brachii muscle, IEDs between 20 and 60mm resulted in similar patterns for the EMG amplitude or MPF versus dynamic and isometric torque relationships. Furthermore, unlike the absolute EMG amplitude and MPF values, the normalized EMG data were not influenced by changes in IED between 20 and 60mm. Thus, normalized EMG data can be compared among previous studies that have utilized different IED arrangements.
Parents' behavior and attitudes toward screening children for high serum cholesterol levels.	The American Academy of Pediatrics, concerned that pediatric cholesterol screening may lead to mislabeling and overly restrictive diets, stresses laboratory confirmation and nutritional follow-up for children with elevated cholesterol levels. Parents' behavior and attitudes toward screening children for high cholesterol were studied. During an 8-week period in summer of 1989 all children 2 through 15 years of age seen for well-child examinations at a community pediatric group practice were offered cholesterol screening by finger-stick method. Most parents were well-educated and white. Of 439 children screened, 134 (31%) had cholesterol levels above the recommended cutoff point of 175 mg/dL (75th percentile). Only 63 children returned for confirmatory lipid panels; parents of children who did not return were interviewed. Reasons for noncompliance included "not sure test machine was accurate" (67%); "child too traumatized by finger stick" (47%); and "will try low-cholesterol diet before recheck" (40%). A third of these parents believed that confirmation of an elevated cholesterol level "would make the child worry too much." Only 29% of these parents talked with a dietician. In this middle-class, well-educated population, a large proportion of children had elevated screening cholesterol values, but few complied with American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines. As a result, many children may be mislabeled as hypercholesterolemic and may not benefit from screening.
Exposure to Toxoplasma gondii and cat ownership in Nova Scotia.	In this survey, 998 children and adolescents between 7 months and 17 years of age who attended a hospital diagnostic center in the city of Halifax, Nova Scotia, for routine evaluation were tested for Toxoplasma gondii antibody. The 5.2% prevalence rate of antibody for children living in the outlying rural areas was significantly higher than the 1.1% rate among the urban children (P = .0006). Seroprevalence increased with age for both rural and urban children. Cat ownership was associated with antibodies to Toxoplasma among rural children but not urban children. Rural children who lived in a house with more than one cat were two times more likely to be infected than children who had one cat and three times more likely to be infected than children with no cats. The geometric mean titer was also significantly higher among the rural children with more than one cat, 1:152, than rural children with one or no cats, 1:63 (P = .02). In light of these findings for children and adolescents, the association of Toxoplasma infection with cat ownership needs to be thoroughly evaluated among pregnant women in rural areas.
Measuring and managing quality of surgery. Statistical vs incidental approaches.	New rules for quality assurance provoked a comparison of effects of two approaches used concurrently for 14 years. In an incidental approach, a multidisciplinary conference reviewed all postoperative complications as they occurred and attributed each to one of six causes. Remedies were instituted and data were filed. In a statistical approach, death and complication rates were computed annually and compared with previous years' rates and with rates reported to Congress as national norms. Statistics suggested acceptable quality in each specialty but calculations were tedious and differences achieved significance too rarely or too slowly to identify problems, protect patients, and improve care. The incidental approach was popular and produced immediate improvements in patient care. Conferees attributed one half of complications to errors. Frequent acknowledgment of susceptibility to error may contribute to the safety and quality shown by our statistics.
Organization of sequential typing movements.	1. Experienced touch typists were asked to type words that contained only one or two letters typed by one of the two hands. When a word contained a pair of letters typed by one hand, the letters could be consecutive, or there could be one, two, or three intervening letters typed with the other hand. 2. We studied cases in which pairs of letters were either identical, different but typed with the same finger, or typed with two different fingers on the same hand. 3. Translational and rotational motion of the fingers and wrist was computed optoelectronically from the location of reflective markers on the hands. Finger and wrist motion recorded when subjects typed pairs of letters was compared with the motion recorded when the subject typed either letter in isolation. 4. When the subject typed the same letter consecutively, or separated by intervening letters, the second keystroke began only after the first key had been pressed. The same result was obtained when the second letter was not identical but was typed with the same finger. Up to the time of the first keypress, the initial keystroke kinematics were identical to those for that letter typed in isolation. 5. When the second letter in a pair was typed with the use of a different finger, the initial focal movement (wrist and finger striking the key) was unaffected up to the time of initial keypress. However, the second finger could begin to move toward the second key shortly before the initial keypress, and therefore the corollary movements normally involved in the initial keystroke were affected. 6. These results indicate that typing movements are executed primarily in a serial fashion, letter by letter. There can be some overlap between consecutive keystrokes only if they are executed with different fingers. 7. Words in which two letters typed with one hand were separated by three letters typed with the other hand provided subjects the opportunity to initiate the second keystroke at a range of times after the first keypress. 8. When the second letter differed from the first, subjects always returned to the home position after the first keypress and initiated the second keystroke with a normal latency. However, when the second letter was the same as the first letter, subjects sometimes suppressed the return to the home position after the first keystroke and maintained their finger poised over the key. 9. Thus keystrokes of one hand are best described as being executed sequentially. However, the findings presented here also indicate that movement planning encompasses strings of letters.
Anthropometric study of the school population of the autonomic community of Murcia]	The aim of this study was to know the anthropometric study of school children in Murcia in order to obtain parameters of present reference for our country and region.
Analysis of nonuniformity in intron phase distribution.	The distribution of different intron groups with respect to phases has been analyzed. It has been established that group II introns and nuclear introns have a minimum frequency of phase 2 introns. Since the phase of introns is an extremely conservative measure the observed minimum reflects evolutionary processes. A sample of all known, group I introns was too small to provide a valid characteristic of their phase distribution. The findings observed for the unequal distribution of phases cannot be explained solely on the basis of the mobile properties of introns. One of the most likely explanations for this nonuniformity in the intron phase distribution is the process of exon shuffling. It is proposed that group II introns originated at the early stages of evolution and were involved in the process of exon shuffling.
Multifactorial analysis of the blood levels of LH, FSH and estradiol in relation to ovular harvesting rates, fertilization and segmentation in patients undergoing assisted reproduction (GIFT-FIVTE)]	This study shows that there is certain tendency to asssign more value to the observation of follicular growth by ultrasound than to hormonal levels "per se". However, the appreciation of growth is only part of the phenomenon of development and ovarian maturity, for that, surveillance with hormonal monitor of ovarian response keeps with a most important role in Assisted Reproduction Clinica. The basal levels, mainly of FSH and in a less degree LH, inversely correlate with the amount of retrieved ovocytes. Estradiol values should be interpreted with a fixed point of reference, as the day of HCG administration, and a direct relation is seen between estradiol levels and captured ovocytes; however, is of highest usefulness to value the conduct of estradiol level, with the knowledge that the prognosis for good capture rates improves with ascending values and above 700 pg in the day of HCG administration.
Ontogenetic body form changes in three ecological morphotypes of anuran tadpoles.	Metamorphic vertebrate species are of particular interest in ecological and evolutionary studies because the decoupling of larval and adult growth patterns potentially allows adaptive diversifications of the separate stages. Larval and adult growth might be much more constrained if allometric patterns were constant throughout ontogeny. To better understand how differential growth patterns might contribute to tadpole diversification, we have analyzed growth allometries in relation to interspecific morphometric differences in Gastrophryne carolinensis, Acris gryllus, and Hyla gratiosa. Growth patterns in all species are significantly allometric and moderately concordant, despite many differences in detail. The species can be completely discriminated in even the smallest post-hatching tadpoles. However, the differences that distinguish the species do not seem to be a function of differential growth patterns at the tadpole stage. Rather, morphological differences ostensibly originate during embryonic development and are well established by the time the tadpoles become free-swimming.
Retinal detachment in pseudophakia. Analysis of 164 cases]	The authors present a study of 164 pseudophakic retinal detachments followed up at least six months after surgery. All the parameters were statistically evaluated. It shows that preoperative general patterns are similar to those described previously. This study was mainly concerned with finding factors which might influence anatomical success. Only proliferative vitreo-retinopathy was statistically correlated with the quality of the results. In contrast, the demonstration and localisation of retinal tears, IOL design and even vitreous loss do not influence the prognosis.
The Rochester Diabetic Neuropathy Study: reassessment of tests and criteria for diagnosis and staged severity.	We evaluated the initial assessments of the 380 diabetic patients with and without polyneuropathy in the Rochester Diabetic Neuropathy Study for (1) associations among neuropathy test results, (2) usefulness of different tests for diagnosing and staging polyneuropathy, (3) appropriateness of different minimal criteria for the diagnosis of polyneuropathy, and (4) significant differences in test results with increasing stage of polyneuropathy. Nerve conduction ([NC]; abnormality in two or more nerves) and quantitative autonomic examination ([QAE]; decreased heart-beat response to deep breathing [DB] or the Valsalva maneuver [VAL]) were the most sensitive and objective and were especially suitable for detection of subclinical neuropathy. We propose the following minimal criteria for the diagnosis of diabetic polyneuropathy: greater than or equal to 2 abnormal evaluations (from among neuropathic symptoms, neuropathic deficits, NC, quantitative sensory examination [QSE], and QAE) with one of the two being abnormality of NC or QAE (DB or VAL). Neuropathy Symptom Score, Neuropathy Disability Score, QSE (vibratory or cooling detection threshold), and summated compound muscle action potential of ulnar, peroneal, and tibial nerves were best for judging severity. Inability to walk on heels provided a discrete separation of diabetic patients into those with mild and those with more severe neuropathy--a separation helpful in staging.
Dementia after stroke: baseline frequency, risks, and clinical features in a hospitalized cohort.	We determined the frequency of dementia in a cohort of 251 patients aged greater than or equal to 60 years hospitalized with acute ischemic stroke, based on examinations performed 3 months after stroke onset. Using modified DSM-III-R criteria, we found dementia in 66 patients (26.3%). Diagnostic agreement among raters was excellent (kappa = 0.96). In a control sample of 249 stroke-free subjects recruited from the community and matched by age, we found dementia in eight subjects (3.2%). Using a logistic regression model to estimate the risk of dementia associated with stroke in the combined samples, the odds ratio (OR) for stroke patients compared with control subjects was 9.4 (p less than 0.001). Advancing age and fewer years of education were significant, independent correlates of dementia, with a trend evident for race (non-white versus white). Confining the analysis to subjects residing in the Washington Heights-Inwood community of northern Manhattan, the OR was 10.3 (p less than 0.001) with significant age and race effects. We conclude that ischemic stroke significantly increases the risk of dementia, with independent contributions by age, education, and race.
Intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy in ankylosing spondylitis.	The aim of this double-blind study was to compare the effect of high-dose (1000 mg) and low-dose (375 mg) methylprednisolone pulse therapy administered intravenously once daily for three consecutive days, in active ankylosing spondylitis. Seventeen patients with active ankylosing spondylitis were randomly allocated to high-dose (8 patients) or low-dose (9 patients) regimen. Although there was no placebo group in this study, it is our impression that in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis, both high-dose (1000 mg) and low-dose (375 mg) methylprednisolone pulse therapy given on three consecutive days, is effective as regards pain relief and improvement in spinal mobility. There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups, though there was a trend towards the high dose yielding a greater and longer lasting improvement. No serious adverse reactions were observed.
The impact of endpoint measures in rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials.	In clinical trials on the effectiveness of disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), it is common to apply a large number of endpoint measures. This practice has several disadvantages. To determine which endpoint measures are most valuable, reports of 32 clinical trials on six DMARDs were reviewed. The frequency with which each endpoint measure was used is described and discussed, as well as the frequency with which the values of each endpoint were significantly different in statistical comparisons within or between groups, thus showing ability to discriminate between drugs not equally effective. The results of this review are discussed and compared with other reports in the literature on the choice of endpoint measures in RA clinical trials. The authors conclude that it is still common practice to evaluate multiple outcome measures. The number of measures could be reduced by using only those that are generally considered important, are sensitive to change, and are able to differentiate between drugs in clinical trials. A joint count, assessment of pain, a questionnaire on functional status, and measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate are sufficient.
Segmenting ultrasound images of the prostate using neural networks.	This paper describes a method for segmenting transrectal ultrasound images of the prostate using feedforward neural networks. Segmenting two-dimensional images of the prostate into prostate and nonprostate regions is required when forming a three-dimensional image of the prostate from a set of parallel two-dimensional images. Three neural network architectures are presented as examples and discussed. Each of these networks was trained using a small portion of a training image segmented by an expert sonographer. The results of applying the trained networks to the entire training image and to adjacent images in the two-dimensional image set are presented and discussed. The final network architecture was also trained with additional data from two other images in the set. The results of applying this retrained network to each of the images in the set are presented and discussed.
Risk factors for amputation in patients with diabetes mellitus. A case-control study.	To identify and quantify risk factors for lower extremity amputation in persons with diabetes mellitus.
A comparison between the Rappaport Classification and Working Formulation in cooperative group trials: the ECOG experience.	The Working Formulation (WF) for the classification of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas was shown to be reproducible and clinically relevant in the original study. However, it has not yet been tested by an NCI-supported cooperative clinical oncology group. As a result, the Hematopathology Subcommittee of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) undertook a retrospective study to compare concordance and practical utility between the WF and the Rappaport Classification (RC). Data indicate that with appropriate modifications to minimize unclassifiable lymphomas, the WF can be effectively utilized in cooperative clinical oncology groups.
Plasma IGF-I levels and cognitive performance in older women.	Emerging biologic and epidemiologic evidence suggests benefits of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) in cognitive aging.
Neurological soft signs in adolescents with first episode psychosis.	The purpose of this study is to determine the decrease of neurological soft signs (NSS) during adolescence and to compare this evolutionary process in two groups of adolescents with first episode psychosis: a) schizophrenia and b) non-schizophrenia patients. The structured neurological evaluation scale (NES) was administered to 24 adolescents with first episode psychosis. The number of NSS, the total and subscales scores were correlated with age in patients and in 39 healthy controls. Adolescents with first-episode psychosis had a higher prevalence of NSS than healthy controls; the schizophrenia patients (N=9) scored higher than non-schizophrenia patients (N=15). The number of NSS, total score and the scores on three of the four NES subscales correlated inversely with age in the healthy control group. No correlation was found for the schizophrenia group. For the non-schizophrenia group, a significant negative correlation was found only in one subscale. The decrease of NSS during adolescence in the healthy population but not in the patient groups with psychosis may be an indicator of a disturbance of brain processes that occurs during development. We did not find a clear pattern of NSS that distinguished schizophrenia from other psychoses.
The 2-year stability of neurological soft signs after a first episode of non-affective psychosis.	We examined the 2-year stability of neurological soft signs (NSS) in 29 patients after a first episode of psychosis. The numbers of NSS at inclusion and at 2 years follow-up were similar, but there was a significant increase in the numbers of NSS in the sub-group of patients whose dosage of antipsychotic medication had increased over time.
Results of the central data analysis.	This chapter presents the results of blind serological studies carried out by workshop participants on 87 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) supplied to them as a coded panel. Twenty six mAbs had been studied in the first workshop. Participants were asked to carry out immunohistochemical, immunocytological or flow cytometric analysis on a mandatory panel of target tissues or cells. Central computer analysis and other supporting data allowed the assignment of 33 mAbs to seven clusters. Two of the antigens identified have been cloned while two more have been defined as carbohydrate epitopes. The results allow comparison of new mAbs against lung cancer with existing ones and are beginning to provide a description of the antigenic structure of the SCLC cell surface.
Emphysema type in relation to silica dust exposure in South African gold miners.	The relationship between silica dust exposure in gold mines and the type of emphysema was studied in a group of 1,553 white gold miners who had undergone autopsy examination between 1974 and 1987. Of particular interest was the contrast between centriacinar and panacinar emphysema as they relate to silica exposure and the presence of silicosis. Subjects with significant emphysema, that is, with an emphysema score of 30% or more, were classified as having predominantly panacinar or predominantly centriacinar emphysema, and compared to those without emphysema (emphysema score less than or equal to 10%). Of those who had significant emphysema (greater than or equal to 30%), 24% had predominantly panacinar, 43% predominantly centriacinar, and 33% were classified as mixed. The odds ratios (OR) for the association between each emphysema type and dust exposure (one unit of the cumulative dust index) were found to be statistically significant and of equal magnitude [1.019, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.005 to 1.033 for panacinar and 1.019 with a 95% CI of 1.007 to 1.031 for centriacinar emphysema]. In 163 nonsmokers insignificant panacinar emphysema was more common than centriacinar emphysema. The results indicate that a miner with 20 yr in high-dust occupations has a 3.5 (1.7;6.6) times higher odds of having a significant degree of emphysema at autopsy than a miner not in a dusty occupation. This is likely to be true of smoking miners only because there were only four nonsmokers with an emphysema score between 30 and 40%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Modulation of lethal and persistent rat parvovirus infection by antibody.	Two day-old athymic (rnu/rnu) and euthymic (rnu/+) rat pups nursing immune or non-immune dams were inoculated oronasally with the Yale strain of rat virus (RV-Y). All athymic and euthymic pups (57/57) from immune dams remained clinically normal, whereas 51 of 66 athymic and euthymic pups from non-immune dams died within 30 days. Infectious RV was detected by explant culture in 12 of 15 surviving pups of both genotypes from non-immune dams 30 days after inoculation, but in none of the 57 surviving pups from immune dams. RV-Y DNA was detected by Southern blotting in kidneys of surviving athymic pups from non-immune dams but was not detected in pups from immune dams. Euthymic pups from immune dams appeared not to produce endogenous antibody to RV after virus challenge, whereas euthymic pups from non-immune dams produced high-titered RV immune serum. Pups of both genotypes given immune serum prior to or with RV were fully protected from disease and persistent infection, whereas pups given immune serum 24 hours after RV were partially protected. These studies show that RV antibody offers significant protection against lethal and persistent RV infection.
Association between cognitive function, behavioral syndromes and two-year clinical outcome in Chinese subjects with late-onset Alzheimer's disease.	To examine associations between behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), cognitive function and clinical deterioration over 2 years.
Characteristics and health status change over 6 months in people with moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's disease in the U.K.	Until recently, attention and treatment strategies have focused mainly on patients in the early phases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The objectives of this study were to collect information on moderately severe and severe AD patients (Mini-mental State Examination score < 15) in terms of epidemiological, clinical and economic characteristics and disease change in the later stages of AD, and to compare this specific AD population over 6 months with those in the earlier stages.
Determination of total dietary fiber in Japanese foods.	Total dietary fiber was determined in Japanese foods by the Prosky-AOAC method. To accomplish the analyses of unsuitable samples, we introduced a few minor modifications to the versions for (i) seaweed and fruits, (ii) cereals, and (iii) fish and meats. These modified methods were used together with the standard method to obtain results with reasonably good relative standard deviation for 231 foods and 21 groups of mixed foods. In this study, dietary fiber was defined so as not to exclude the nondigestible polysaccharide portions of animal foods. A method was proposed which could estimate more accurately the fiber components of animal foods by measuring the "nondigestible protein" of the fiber sample of the fiber sample by the Biuret colorimetric method, instead of the Kjeldahl method, to avoid deducting the values for aminopolysaccharides. In Japanese diets, the amount of fiber obtained from animals foods was less than 5% of the total intake of dietary fiber.
Structural MRI covariance patterns associated with normal aging and neuropsychological functioning.	Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies have shown dramatic age-associated changes in grey and white matter volume, but typically use univariate analyses that do not explicitly test the interrelationship among brain regions. The current study used a multivariate approach to identify covariance patterns of grey and white matter tissue density to distinguish older from younger adults. A second aim was to examine whether the expression of the age-associated covariance topographies is related to performance on cognitive tests affected by normal aging. Eighty-four young (mean age=24.0) and 29 older (mean age=73.1) participants were scanned with a 1.5T MRI machine and assessed with a cognitive battery. Images were spatially normalized and segmented to produce grey and white matter density maps. A multivariate technique, based on the subprofile scaling model, was used to capture sources of between- and within-group variation to produce a linear combination of principal components that represented a "pattern" or "network" that best discriminated between the two age groups. Univariate analyses were also conducted with statistical parametric maps. Grey and white matter covariance patterns were identified that reliably discriminated between the groups with greater than 0.90 sensitivity and specificity. The identified patterns were similar for the univariate and multivariate techniques, and involved widespread regions of the cortex and subcortex. Age and the expression of both patterns were significantly associated with performance on tests of attention, language, memory, and executive functioning. The results suggest that identifiable networks of grey and white matter regions systematically decline with age and that pattern expression is linked to age-related cognitive decline.
Lack of association between iron metabolism and depressive mood in an elderly general population.	Alterations in iron metabolism have been suggested as potential pathological markers in patients with manifest depression. No data on the association between iron and depression exist from population-based studies, in which milder forms of depressive symptoms are much more common. The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between six parameters of iron metabolism and depressive mood in a population-based cross-sectional study in Germany.
Association between the scores on the general health questionnaire-28 and the saliva levels of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol in normal volunteers.	To access the saliva level of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol (sMHPG) as an index of mental health in normal volunteers, we investigated the relationship between the sMHPG and the scores on the general health questionnaire-28 (GHQ-28). A total of 270 normal volunteers answered the GHQ-28 and the sMHPG levels were determined. The sMHPG levels in women and men were comparable. There was a significant negative correlation between the social dysfunction score on the GHQ-28 and sMHPG levels in women (P=0.0035), but not in men. Moreover, the sMHPG levels also correlated with the total GHQ-28 score (P=0.0205), the anxiety and the insomnia score (P=0.0306) in women. These data indicate a high social dysfunction score on the GHQ-28 to be associated with a reduced noradrenergic neuronal tone thus possibly reflecting psychomotor retardation in women.
Resistin and adiponectin in major depression: the association with free cortisol and effects of antidepressant treatment.	Major depression is associated with an increased risk for myocardial infarction. Adipokines have been shown to link obesity with metabolic disturbances. Based on this finding the present study was designed to investigate the effect of antidepressive treatment with either amitriptyline or paroxetine on circulating concentrations of resistin and adiponectin in depressed patients, and to establish, whether these adipokines are associated with the activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-system. Thirty-seven depressed in-patients were treated in a double-blind, randomized protocol with either amitriptyline or paroxetine over a period of five weeks. After six drug free days blood was drawn on day 1 and again 36 days after antidepressive treatment for the measurement of resistin and adiponectin, fasting glucose and insulin concentrations. For quantification of free cortisol levels saliva was obtained daily at 0800 hours during weeks 1 and 5. While resistin concentrations decreased in patients remitting under amitriptyline and paroxetine (p<0.03), no changes were observed in non-remitters. At baseline, though not during treatment, circulating resistin concentrations correlated positively with free cortisol levels and with BMI (p<0.01). Adiponectin levels, however, did not change during treatment and were not associated with free cortisol concentrations but were instead positively related to QUICKI (p<0.03). In conclusion, the present data revealed resistin but not adiponectin to be related to free cortisol concentrations and to decline in remitters to antidepressive treatment.
Accuracy and reproducibility of a subpixel extended phase correlation method to determine micron level displacements in the heart.	Future treatment of heart disease may involve local perturbations of mechanical function, such as intramyocardial injections of angiogenic growth factors or progenitor cells. This necessitates an accurate measurement technique to determine regional heart function. We have previously developed a method to determine regional heart function using a phase correlation algorithm. However, in determining regional function over a single heartbeat it is necessary to sum displacements between many images. We have therefore incorporated a subpixel algorithm that models the result of phase correlation as a sinc function in order to increase the accuracy of our technique. This method, which we have named high density mapping (HDM), determines the subpixel displacement of 64 x 64 pixel regions from images of the heart. To determine the accuracy and precision of the technique, a high contrast image of a heart was digitally shifted 1, 2 or 3 pixels. The original and shifted images were then downsampled four times resulting in 0.25, 0.50 or 0.75 pixel shifts between the original and shifted images. The average accuracy of HDM in the digitally shifted images was 0.06 pixels, with a precision of 0.08 pixels. Effectiveness of HDM in characterization of deformation was also assessed in digitally stretched images. Error in quantification of strain was found to be less than 3.5% of the calculated strain. In an additional set of experiments, in which accuracy was determined using physical motion instead of digital shifting and downsampling, a speckle pattern was displaced by known distances using a micromanipulator, such that the displacement between the captured images was 0.5 pixels. These data demonstrated an accuracy of 0.09 pixels and a precision of 0.02 pixels. Finally, as HDM is used to determine the regional stroke work index (RSW) in beating hearts, the repeatability of using this method to compute RSW was assessed. RSW, the integral of intraventricular pressure with respect to unitless regional area, where end diastolic area was normalized to unity, was assessed in consecutive beats from four different hearts. The average standard deviation of RSW was 0.098 mmHg. Uncertainty analysis determined the maximum error of RSW to be +/-0.41 mmHg, approximately two-thirds of the measured biologic variability. These data demonstrate the ability of HDM to accurately and reproducibly measure displacement and regional function in the beating heart.
Neuroanatomical correlates of memory deficits in tuberous sclerosis complex.	Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multisystem syndrome classically associated with the occurrence of focal brain dysplasias. We used structural magnetic resonance imaging to test for neuroradiological abnormalities in TSC (tubers, white matter lesions, and subependymal nodules) and to explore the relationships between these lesions and computational morphometric abnormalities of gray and white matter distribution. We tested memory function in TSC and investigated the relationship between memory function and both morphometric variation and lesion load. Patients demonstrated deficits bilaterally in volume of subcortical gray matter regions including thalamus, basal ganglia, insula, and cerebellum, as well as white matter deficits bilaterally in intrahemispheric tracts. Morphometric deficits could not be explained as local effects of lesions. Patients demonstrated deficits in executive working memory and recall memory, sparing recognition. Structure-function mapping showed long-term and working memory function was positively correlated with gray matter density (in thalamus, caudate nucleus, and frontal cortex) but not with lesion load. The neuroanatomical endophenotype of TSC is more extensive than previously recognized and comprises abnormalities in the distribution of gray and white matter in addition to classical lesions. Normal intelligence quotient patients with TSC show a profile of long-term and working memory impairment that is related to gray matter deficits in thalamus and basal ganglia components of fronto-striatal circuits.
Ribosomal RNA as molecular barcodes: a simple correlation analysis without sequence alignment.	We explored the feasibility of using unaligned rRNA gene sequences as DNA barcodes, based on correlation analysis of composition vectors (CVs) derived from nucleotide strings. We tested this method with seven rRNA (including 12, 16, 18, 26 and 28S) datasets from a wide variety of organisms (from archaea to tetrapods) at taxonomic levels ranging from class to species.
A short screen for depression: the AB Clinician Depression Screen (ABCDS).	Depression is common in elderly people but physicians may not screen for it because of the length of time required by current screening instruments. We have developed a short screening instrument for depression for use in elderly people with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment or early dementia.
Analysis of fecal glucocorticoids in the North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena glacialis).	Very little is known about the endocrinology of the baleen whales. The highly endangered North Atlantic right whale (NARW; Eubalaena glacialis) is a good model species, because most NARW individuals are photo-identified with known histories. We used an 125I corticosterone assay, shown to reliably measure cortisol metabolites, to determine glucocorticoid metabolite concentrations in 177 NARW fecal samples collected between 1999-2004 in the Bay of Fundy, Canada. Fecal glucocorticoid metabolite concentrations varied significantly with sex and reproductive category, being highest in pregnant females (mean +/-SE: 238.14+/-74.37 ng/g) and mature males (71.6+/-11.36), intermediate in lactating females (39.33+/-5.82), and lower in non-reproducing females (23.11+/-4.25) and immature males (34.33+/-5.01) and females (14.0+/-0.41). One case also suggests that glucocorticoids rise markedly in response to severe entanglement in fishing lines. Whales with fecal glucocorticoid content over 100 ng/g (termed "high-cort" samples) were rare, and included most pregnant females, some mature males, a fatally entangled whale, and several very young animals. Glucocorticoid concentrations were highly correlated with androgen concentrations in males and pregnant females. We analyzed the elution profiles of glucocorticoid and androgen metabolites in 13 samples with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to determine the extent to which androgen metabolites cross-react with our glucocorticoid assay. Males, pregnant females, non-pregnant females, and "high-cort" whales each had distinctly different immunoreactive HPLC profiles of glucocorticoid and androgen metabolites. A major glucocorticoid metabolite was prominent in all "high-cort" whales including the fatally entangled whale. The major fecal androgen was not testosterone but was instead a more nonpolar steroid (possibly dihydrotestosterone), which may be diagnostic of males. Androgen metabolites showed only minor cross-reactivity to our glucocorticoid assay, having a slight influence on glucocorticoid results in particular individuals. We conclude that fecal glucocorticoid analysis appears to be a useful measure of adrenal activity and reproductive condition for NARW.
A mixture model with random-effects components for clustering correlated gene-expression profiles.	The clustering of gene profiles across some experimental conditions of interest contributes significantly to the elucidation of unknown gene function, the validation of gene discoveries and the interpretation of biological processes. However, this clustering problem is not straightforward as the profiles of the genes are not all independently distributed and the expression levels may have been obtained from an experimental design involving replicated arrays. Ignoring the dependence between the gene profiles and the structure of the replicated data can result in important sources of variability in the experiments being overlooked in the analysis, with the consequent possibility of misleading inferences being made. We propose a random-effects model that provides a unified approach to the clustering of genes with correlated expression levels measured in a wide variety of experimental situations. Our model is an extension of the normal mixture model to account for the correlations between the gene profiles and to enable covariate information to be incorporated into the clustering process. Hence the model is applicable to longitudinal studies with or without replication, for example, time-course experiments by using time as a covariate, and to cross-sectional experiments by using categorical covariates to represent the different experimental classes.
Using classification trees to profile adolescent smoking behaviors.	The purpose of this study was to explore the interactive nature of various predictor variables in profiling adolescent smoking behaviors characterized by intention to smoke, current, situational, and established smoking using classification trees. The data (n = 3610) were obtained from cross-sectional telephone surveys of the Florida Anti-Tobacco Media Evaluation Program. Three classification trees were constructed, namely, intention versus no intention to smoke among non-smokers, current smokers versus non-smokers, and established versus situational smokers. The tree model for the intention model revealed that social and health risks are important in the context of peer smoking. Certain variables such as peer smoking and alcohol consumption retained their relative importance across the tree classifiers demonstrating that smoking intention may be predictable using some of the same variables as in current or more dependent smoking.
Toward an integrative model of the spectrum of mood, behavioral and personality disorders based on fear and anger traits: I. Clinical implications.	Current formal psychiatric approaches to nosology are plagued by an unwieldy degree of heterogeneity with insufficient appreciation of the commonalities of emotional, personality, behavioral, and addictive disorders. We address this challenge by building a spectrum model that integrates the advantages of Cloninger's and Akiskalian approaches to personality and temperament while avoiding some of their limitations. We specifically propose that "fear" and "anger" traits--used in a broader connotation than in the conventional literature--provide an optimum basis for understanding how the spectra of anxiety, depressive, bipolar, ADHD, alcohol, substance use and other impulse-control, as well as cluster B and C personality disorders arise and relate to one another. By erecting a bidimensional approach, we attempt to resolve the paradox that apparently polar conditions (e.g. depression and mania, compulsivity and impulsivity, internalizing and externalizing disorders) can coexist without cancelling one another. The combination of excessive or deficient fear and anger traits produces 4 main quadrants corresponding to the main temperament types of hyperthymic, depressive, cyclothymic and labile individuals, which roughly correspond to bipolar I, unipolar depression, bipolar II and ADHD, respectively. Other affective temperaments resulting from excess or deficiency of only fear or anger include irritable, anxious, apathetic and hyperactive. Our model does not consider schizophrenia. We propose that "healthy" or euthymic individuals would have average or moderate fear and anger traits. We further propose that family history, course and comorbidity patterns can also be understood based on fear and anger traits. We finally discuss the implications of the new derived model for clinical diagnosis of the common psychiatric disorders, and for subtyping depression and anxiety as well as cognitive and behavioral styles. We submit this proposed schema represented herein as a heuristic attempt to build bridges between basic and clinical science.
The association between pre-hypertension status and oxidative stress markers related to atherosclerotic disease: the ATTICA study.	We sought to evaluate the association between pre-hypertension status and oxidative stress markers (total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and oxidized low density lipoprotein (LDL)), in a random sample of cardiovascular disease-free adults.
Antidepressant efficacy and hormonal effects of Sudarshana Kriya Yoga (SKY) in alcohol dependent individuals.	Sudarshana Kriya Yoga (SKY) has demonstrable antidepressant effects. SKY was tested for this effect in inpatients of alcohol dependence.
Factors of suicide ideation and their relation to clinical and other indicators in older adults.	Research on the factor structures of the Scale for Suicidal Ideation (SSI; [Beck, A.T., Kovacs, M., Weissman, M., 1979. Assessment of suicidal intention: the Scale for Suicide Ideation. J. Consult. Clin. Psychol. 47, 343-352]) and the Modified Scale for Suicide Ideation (MSSI; [Miller, I.W., Norman. W.H., Bishop, S.B., and Dow, M.G., 1986. The modified scale for suicidal ideation: reliability and validity. J Consult Clin Psychol, 54, 724-725]) in younger adults have tended to yield two factor solutions. The purpose of the current study was to examine the factor structure of the SSI in an older population in order to determine whether the factor structure was similar and, if so, whether the factors related to other clinical and demographic correlates.
Anatomical correlates of foreign speech sound production.	Previous work has shown a relationship between brain anatomy and how quickly adults learn to perceive foreign speech sounds. Faster learners have greater asymmetry (left>right) in parietal lobe white matter (WM) volumes and larger WM volumes of left Heschl's gyrus than slower learners. Here, we tested native French speakers who were previously scanned using high-resolution anatomical magnetic resonance imaging. We asked them to pronounce a Persian consonant that does not exist in French but which can easily be distinguished from French speech sounds, the voiced uvular stop. Two judges scored the goodness of the utterances. Voxel-based morphometry revealed that individuals who more accurately pronounce the foreign sound have higher WM density in the left insula/prefrontal cortex and in the inferior parietal cortices bilaterally compared with poorer producers. Results suggest that WM anatomy in brain regions previously implicated in articulation and phonological working memory, or the size/shape of these or adjacent regions, is in part predictive of the accuracy of speech sound pronunciation.
Hybridization interactions between probesets in short oligo microarrays lead to spurious correlations.	Microarrays measure the binding of nucleotide sequences to a set of sequence specific probes. This information is combined with annotation specifying the relationship between probes and targets and used to make inferences about transcript- and, ultimately, gene expression. In some situations, a probe is capable of hybridizing to more than one transcript, in others, multiple probes can target a single sequence. These 'multiply targeted' probes can result in non-independence between measured expression levels.
Are BPI and BPII suicide attempters distinct neuropsychologically?	It is not clear if bipolar disorder I (BPI) and bipolar disorder II (BPII) represent the same disorder on a continuum of severity or two distinct syndromes. Neuropsychological functioning is a means of understanding similarities and differences between diagnostic groups.
Medial prefrontal cortex volume loss in rats with isolation rearing-induced deficits in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle.	Rearing rats in isolation produces perturbations in behavior and brain neurochemistry suggested to resemble those of schizophrenia. In particular, isolation-reared rats display deficits in prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle that in humans are associated with disorders including schizophrenia and are interpreted as abnormalities in sensorimotor gating. The prefrontal cortex is considered important in the regulation of prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle and postmortem studies suggest that neuropil and total volume, but not total number of neurons, are decreased in this region of the brains of schizophrenic patients. In this study we used design-based stereological techniques to examine the brains of Lister Hooded rats, reared in isolation and which displayed prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle deficits, for changes in morphology compared with the brains of their socially-reared littermates. Pooled data from three batches of animals revealed a significant 7% volume loss of the medial prefrontal cortex of isolation-reared rats whereas neuron number in this region was unchanged. In contrast, volume and total neuron number were unaffected in the rostral caudate putamen. The robust reduction in prefrontal cortical volume observed in isolation-reared rats, in the absence of reductions in total neuron number, suggest that there is a loss of volume of the neuropil. These changes parallel those reported in schizophrenia patients and therefore support the construct validity of this model.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder in bipolar disorder patients with first manic episode.	Evidence indicates that obsessive--compulsive disorder (OCD) co-occurs with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (BD) at a higher rate than in the general population. The inflated rate of comorbidity may result from chronic illness, antipsychotic therapy or treatment-seeking behavior. To control for these factors we evaluated the prevalence of OCD in patients with first-episode acute mania who met DSM-IV criteria for BD-I, and compared them with our previously reported group of first-episode schizophrenia patients.
Effects of parental anxiety disorders in children at high risk for panic disorder: a controlled study.	To examine the association between anxiety disorders in parents and offspring in a sample of children at risk for panic disorder. We hypothesized that individual anxiety disorders will breed true in offspring.
Hospital-based active surveillance of childhood pertussis in Austria from 1996 to 2003: estimates of incidence and vaccine effectiveness of whole-cell and acellular vaccine.	This study was undertaken to analyse the epidemiology of pertussis disease among hospitalised children during the transition period from whole-cell to acellular pertussis vaccine in order to compare the respective estimates of vaccine effectiveness.
Quality of life in early phases of panic disorder: predictive factors.	To analyse the quality of life (QoL) of patients with panic disorder of recent onset and to find related clinical variables.
Stroop performance in depressive patients: a preliminary report.	The Stroop interference test requires executive control functions, in particular inhibition of a learned routine (in this case word reading). Depressive patients show deficits on tests of executive function. However, the impact of confounding variables like type of depression and anxiety level is not yet elucidated for depressive patients. This is of clinical importance, since executive functions seem to play an important role in predicting treatment response and functional outcome.
Does the FDA proposed list of possible correlates of suicidality associated with antidepressants apply to an adult private practice population?	In issuing an advisory about a relationship of suicidality emerging during antidepressant use in mood and other psychiatric disorders in juvenile and, possibly patients of all ages, the FDA listed such warning symptomatologic correlates as psychomotor agitation, panic, insomnia, irritability, aggressiveness, and impulsivity, and additionally urged screening for personal and family history for bipolar disorder. It must be recalled that the FDA warning was based on post hoc examination of antidepressant trial data pertaining largely to emergent suicidal ideation rather than attempts. In this report we examine the relevance of the "FDA list" for adults.
Unsafe sex with casual partners and quality of life among HIV-infected gay men: evidence from a large representative sample of outpatients attending French hospitals (ANRS-EN12-VESPA).	The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy has relaunched the debate on risky sexual behavior among HIV-infected gay men. It was proposed to study the influences of lifestyle characteristics and health-related quality of life (HRQL) on unsafe sex with casual partners in a representative sample of HIV-infected gay men.
Quantitative analysis of HIV-1 variants with the K103N resistance mutation after single-dose nevirapine in women with HIV-1 subtypes A, C, and D.	We used a sensitive point mutation assay, LigAmp, to detect and quantify K103N-containing variants in African women who received single-dose nevirapine (NVP) to prevent mother-to-child HIV-1 transmission.
Development and evaluation of phantom for verification of section thickness at thin-section MR imaging.	The purpose of this study was to construct and evaluate a phantom for measurement of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging sections with thicknesses of 0.3-0.6 mm. The phantom consisted of 304 0.1-mm-thick disks, each of which had a single notch filled with a diluted solution of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations of T1-weighted images with section thicknesses of 0.3-0.6 mm were performed. A computer simulation was performed to evaluate the influence of different examination angles. At quantitative evaluation, the difference between nominal and measured section thicknesses ranged from 11% (nominal section thickness, 0.6 mm) to 18% (nominal section thickness, 0.4 mm). Computer simulations revealed that the phantom's positioning along the z-axis had a negligible influence at quantitative evaluation.
Seasonality of admissions for mania in a psychiatric hospital of Belo Horizonte, Brazil.	Seasonality of mania has been previously reported in several world regions. A spring and/or summer peak has been the most frequent finding, correlating to climatic variables, especially luminosity. There are, however, no South American studies on this association.
Serial blood T cell repertoire alterations in multiple sclerosis patients; correlation with clinical and MRI parameters.	A significant skewing of the peripheral T cell repertoire has been shown in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). Most of the studies already performed in this field are cross-sectional and therefore, little is known of the T cell repertoire evolution over time in MS and the correlation of T cell repertoire variation with clinical and MRI parameters. This study was performed on serially harvested frozen PBMC from nine untreated MS patients (27 samples) and 14 healthy individuals. The blood T cell repertoire of each patient was analysed at the complementarity determining region 3 (CDR3) level and compared with a monthly MRI scan performed over a six month period with assessment of T2 lesion load and gadolinium enhancing lesions. A highly significant blood T cell repertoire skewing was observed in MS patients as compared with healthy controls (p<0.01). In addition, the number of altered Vbeta families correlated significantly with both the T2 lesion volume and the number of gadolinium enhancing lesions as assessed by MRI (Spearman correlation tests, r=0.51 and r=0.44, p<0.01 and p<0.05 respectively). Furthermore, the variation of the number of altered Vbeta families over time also correlated with the appearance of new gadolinium enhancing lesions (r=0.36, p=0.05). These findings which need confirmation on larger serial cohorts, suggest an association between the magnitude of TCRBV CDR3 length distribution alterations in the peripheral blood of MS patients and the disease process.
Optimization of culture variables for improving glucoamylase production by alginate-entrapped Thermomucor indicae-seudaticae using statistical methods.	Alginate-entrapped sporangiospores of Thermomucor indicae-seudaticae were used for the production of glucoamylase. The critical variables that affected glucoamylase production were identified by Plackett-Burman design (sucrose, yeast-extract, K(2)HPO(4) and asparagine) and further optimized by using a four factor central composite design (CCD) of response surface methodology (RSM). Immobilized sporangiospores secreted 41% and 60% higher glucoamylase titers in shake flasks and airlift fermenter, respectively, when the variables were used at their optimum levels (sucrose 3.0%, yeast-extract 0.2%, K(2)HPO(4) 0.1% and asparagine 0.35%). Glucoamylase production (26.3 U ml(-1)) in the optimized medium was in good agreement with the values predicted by the quadratic model (26.7 U ml(-1)), thereby confirming its validity. The enzyme production was sustainable in flasks of higher volume and also airlift fermenter, and attained a peak within 32 h in the fermenter as compared to that of 48 h in shake flasks.
Correlation of intercondylar notch cross sections to the ACL size: a high resolution MR tomographic in vivo analysis.	To correlate cross sections of the intercondylar notch to cross sections of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and to analyze gender-related differences in notch and ACL morphometry with an attempt to explain the observation that a small intercondylar notch and the female gender predispose to a rupture of the ACL.
A comparative clinical study for the evaluation of antianxiety agents, (lorazepam, diazepam and placebo), in neurosis.	To evaluate the clinical effects of lorazepam on neurosis, a double-blind controlled trial by group comparison procedure was carried out using diazepam and placebo as control drugs. The clinical improvement and aggravation rates by means of a variety of assessment of change were compared between each of the two active drugs and placebo. The superiority, characteristics of therapeutic effects and minor side effects of lorazepam which is similar to those of diazepam, a standard benzodiazepine anxiolytic for the treatment of neurosis, were demonstrated. From this study, many important problems which might be influenced upon the outcome of the pharmacotherapy on neurotics, such as positive and negative placebo effects, aggravation and drop-out during the trial, were also evaluated.
Understanding the link between anxiety symptoms and suicidal ideation and behaviors in outpatients with bipolar disorder.	Prior studies suggest an association between anxiety comorbidity and suicidal ideation and behaviors in bipolar disorder. However, the nature of this association remains unclear.
The differential impact of executive attention dysfunction on episodic memory in obsessive-compulsive disorder patients with checking symptoms vs. those with washing symptoms.	Neuropsychological studies of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have pointed to memory and attention deficits among its sufferers, but these reports have largely ignored the possibility that cognitive disturbances may vary across OCD clinical subtypes, or that their interactions may differ between subtypes. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether "checkers" and "washers" demonstrate differences in their memory and executive attention function. Fifty-three outpatients with primary DSM-IV diagnosis of OCD with typical checking (n=27) or washing (n=26) rituals participated in the study. Patients were administered the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised and a comprehensive neuropsychological battery to assess executive attention function. Various neuropsychological tests were then subjected to factor analysis. Neuropsychological test results and obtained factor scores were compared between "washers" and "checkers". Effects of these factor scores on memory by OCD subtypes were examined. No significant difference in terms of demographic and clinical variables was found between the two groups. Checkers displayed performance deficits on Stroop test, Trail Making Test, GO/NO GO test (commission errors) and category fluency. Three factors, inhibition, cognitive flexibility, and multi-tasking, were obtained. Statistically significant differences were observed between the two groups on the inhibition and the cognitive flexibility scores, but not on the general memory or the multi-tasking score. There was a statistically significant interaction between groups and the inhibition score. Only among "checkers", a significant correlation was noted between the inhibition factor and the general memory, while no such correlation was observed among "washers". Among "checkers", poor general memory was related to inhibition deficits.
Enantiomers of monohydroxy-2-aminotetralin derivatives and their activity at dopamine autoreceptors as studied by brain dialysis.	The enantiomers of a series of dopamine (DA) agonists, monohydroxy-2-aminotetralin derivatives, were investigated using brain microdialysis. We used a 5-OH-substituted derivative, N-0437 (2-(N-propyl-N-2-thienylethylamino)-5-hydroxytetralin), and three 7-OH-substituted derivatives, N-0438 (2-(N-propyl-N-2-thienylethylamino)-7-hydroxytetralin), 7-OH-DPAT (7-hydroxy-2-(N,N-di-n-propylamino)tetralin) and PHNO (4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine; position 9 of the naphtoxazines corresponds to position 7 of the aminotetralins). We studied the activity of the enantiomers at autoreceptors regulating the release of DA following their local infusion into the striatum of the rat. We were particularly interested in the activity of R(+)-N-0437, S(-)-N-0438, S(-)-7-OH-DPAT and S(-)-PHNO, which are enantiomers that have been classified as less potent or inactive in previous studies. S(-)-N-0437, R(+)-N-0438, R(+)-7-OH-DPAT and R(+)-PHNO decreased DA release by 45-60%. Thus, these enantiomers are potent agonists at autoreceptors regulating the release of DA. The R(+) enantiomer of the 5-OH-substituted derivative N-0437 possessed antagonistic activity at autoreceptors controlling DA release, increasing DA release by 100%. This finding is consistent with reports showing that one enantiomer of other 5-OH DA agonists displays agonistic activity, while the other has antagonistic properties at DA autoreceptors. The less potent enantiomers of the 7-OH-substituted derivatives S(-)-N-0438, S(-)-7-OH-DPAT and S(-)-PHNO, however, all showed weak agonistic activity at DA autoreceptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mood and thyroid immunity assessed by ultrasonographic imaging in a primary health care.	Psychiatric morbidity is highly prevalent in the primary health care settings and it may be related to autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD). The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of thyroid immunity, evident by hypo-echoic thyroid ultrasound pattern, on prevalence of depression and anxiety in a primary care setting.
Coplanar and non-coplanar congener-specificity of PCB bioaccumulation and immunotoxicity in sea stars.	The sea star Asterias rubens (L.), a representative species of the North Sea benthic environment, was exposed to a mixture of 10 selected PCB congeners (3 coplanar or c-PCBs, and 7 non-coplanar) via experimentally contaminated sediments. Both the degree of bioaccumulation and subsequent immunotoxic effects of these PCBs were determined. A strong congener-specificity for both bioaccumulation and immunotoxicity was found as well as a probable induction of a congener-specific detoxification mechanism resulting in the dramatic decrease in body levels of the three coplanar congeners tested (PCBs 77, 126 and 169). Moreover, a correlation was found between the bioaccumulation of c-PCBs and their immunotoxic effects. These findings suggest that coplanar congeners should be included in the list of congeners recommended to be analyzed for biological impact-oriented marine monitoring programmes.
Decreased CD127 expression on T Cells in HIV-1-infected adults receiving antiretroviral therapy with or without intermittent IL-2 therapy.	The interleukin-7 (IL-7)/IL-7 receptor alpha (IL-7Ralpha) system is an important regulator of T-cell homeostasis. We evaluated the IL-7/IL-7Ralpha system in a large cohort of HIV-infected patients, including a subset treated with intermittent IL-2.
Assessment of the association between HIV viral load and CD4 cell count on the occurrence of oropharyngeal candidiasis in HIV-infected patients.	Oropharyngeal candidiasis (OPC) is the most frequently observed oral infection in HIV-infected individuals. Historically, lower CD4 counts have been associated with an increased prevalence of OPC in HIV-infected patients, but HIV viral load has also recently been recognized as a possible predictive factor.
Association between paired plasma and cervicovaginal lavage fluid HIV-1 RNA levels during 36 months.	To determine the patterns and predictors of genital tract HIV-1 RNA levels during a 36-month period.
The probability of causal conditionals.	Conditionals in natural language are central to reasoning and decision making. A theoretical proposal called the Ramsey test implies the conditional probability hypothesis: that the subjective probability of a natural language conditional, P(if p then q), is the conditional subjective probability, P(q/p). We report three experiments on causal indicative conditionals and related counterfactuals that support this hypothesis. We measured the probabilities people assigned to truth table cases, P(pq), P(p notq), P( notpq) and P( notp notq). From these ratings, we computed three independent predictors, P(p), P(q/p) and P(q/ notp), that we then entered into a regression equation with judged P(if p then q) as the dependent variable. In line with the conditional probability hypothesis, P(q/p) was by far the strongest predictor in our experiments. This result is inconsistent with the claim that causal conditionals are the material conditionals of elementary logic. Instead, it supports the Ramsey test hypothesis, implying that common processes underlie the use of conditionals in reasoning and judgments of conditional probability in decision making.
Effects of polychlorinated biphenyls in rat liver: quantitative analysis of enzyme-altered foci.	The promotional effect of various polychlorinated biphenyls and phenobarbital on enzyme-altered lesions in the rat liver was quantified within the framework of the two-stage carcinogenesis model of Moolgavkar and colleagues. The experiment analyzed here followed an initiation-promotion protocol in which female Wistar rats were initiated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) at 10 mg/kg body wt for 10 days followed by a 8-week period of promoter treatment with various cytochrome P450 isoenzyme inducing and noninducing compounds. This analysis included 4-monochlorobiphenyl, 2,2',4,5'-tetrachlorobiphenyl, 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl and 3-methylcholanthrene, all administered at 150 mumol/kg body wt, and phenobarbital which was administered continuously in the diet at 0.05% until termination. Animals were killed either 1 or 9 weeks after the end of treatment and their livers were examined for enzyme histological alterations. Focal transections were classified as falling into three phenotypic categories: ATPase dominant, GGT dominant, or ATPase plus GGT (coextensive). A quantitative method was used to analyze the data consisting of the number and sizes of the focal transections. The number of cells altered by the DEN treatment and cell kinetic parameters measuring the promotional effect of the various compounds were estimated. On the basis of these estimates, we computed the number of nonextinct altered foci and their volume fraction as functions of time. We found that foci exhibiting the coextensive phenotype respond most efficiently to promoter treatment, while GGT dominant foci respond weakly to all the promoters with the exception of 3-MC. For phenobarbital, we observed a significant slowing of focal cell proliferation over time.
Comparison of depressive indices: reliability, validity, relationship to anxiety and personality and the role of age and life events.	Although a great number of depressive scales were developed during the last decades, there are only a few studies that compare them in terms of reliability and validity. The current study aimed to compare the properties of some of the most popular of these scales.
Psychological and cytokine changes in children and adolescents undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.	Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a therapeutic option of a large variety of diseases. It involves several physiological and psychological changes. Investigations of mood changes in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation are common. There are no studies however, on the relationship between changes in mood and physiological changes in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in children and adolescents. We investigated the correlation between anxiety, depression and serum Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-2 and IL-6.
Universal approximation using incremental constructive feedforward networks with random hidden nodes.	According to conventional neural network theories, single-hidden-layer feedforward networks (SLFNs) with additive or radial basis function (RBF) hidden nodes are universal approximators when all the parameters of the networks are allowed adjustable. However, as observed in most neural network implementations, tuning all the parameters of the networks may cause learning complicated and inefficient, and it may be difficult to train networks with nondifferential activation functions such as threshold networks. Unlike conventional neural network theories, this paper proves in an incremental constructive method that in order to let SLFNs work as universal approximators, one may simply randomly choose hidden nodes and then only need to adjust the output weights linking the hidden layer and the output layer. In such SLFNs implementations, the activation functions for additive nodes can be any bounded nonconstant piecewise continuous functions g : R --> R and the activation functions for RBF nodes can be any integrable piecewise continuous functions g : R --> R and integral of R g(x)dx not equal to 0. The proposed incremental method is efficient not only for SFLNs with continuous (including nondifferentiable) activation functions but also for SLFNs with piecewise continuous (such as threshold) activation functions. Compared to other popular methods such a new network is fully automatic and users need not intervene the learning process by manually tuning control parameters.
On global-local artificial neural networks for function approximation.	We present a hybrid radial basis function (RBF) sigmoid neural network with a three-step training algorithm that utilizes both global search and gradient descent training. The algorithm used is intended to identify global features of an input-output relationship before adding local detail to the approximating function. It aims to achieve efficient function approximation through the separate identification of aspects of a relationship that are expressed universally from those that vary only within particular regions of the input space. We test the effectiveness of our method using five regression tasks; four use synthetic datasets while the last problem uses real-world data on the wave overtopping of seawalls. It is shown that the hybrid architecture is often superior to architectures containing neurons of a single type in several ways: lower mean square errors are often achievable using fewer hidden neurons and with less need for regularization. Our global-local artificial neural network (GL-ANN) is also seen to compare favorably with both perceptron radial basis net and regression tree derived RBFs. A number of issues concerning the training of GL-ANNs are discussed: the use of regularization, the inclusion of a gradient descent optimization step, the choice of RBF spreads, model selection, and the development of appropriate stopping criteria.
Delay-dependent state estimation for delayed neural networks.	In this letter, the delay-dependent state estimation problem for neural networks with time-varying delay is investigated. A delay-dependent criterion is established to estimate the neuron states through available output measurements such that the dynamics of the estimation error is globally exponentially stable. The proposed method is based on the free-weighting matrix approach and is applicable to the case that the derivative of a time-varying delay takes any value. An algorithm is presented to compute the state estimator. Finally, a numerical example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach and the improvement over existing ones.
Testing factor models of the Psychopathy Checklist: Youth Version and their association with instrumental aggression.	Although there is a documented link between psychopathy and instrumental violence in adult offenders, the association between these constructs has not garnered significant attention in adolescent offenders. In this study, we evaluated the relationship between psychopathy and instrumental aggression in a sample of 122 male adolescents incarcerated in a state facility for serious and chronic offenders. We evaluated the primary (2-, 3-, and 4-factor) models of the Psychopathy Checklist: Youth Version (PCL:YV; Forth, Kosson, & Hare, 2003) and assessed their relationship to a separate 5-item measure of instrumental violence. CFA revealed good model fit for the 3- and 4-factor latent variable models of adolescent psychopathy and a single-factor model reflecting a 5-item measure of instrumental violence. Structural equation modeling results indicate that the 4-factor model accounted for 20% of the variance for instrumental violence. In contrast, the 3-factor model of the PCL:YV accounted for 8%, and the 2-factor model accounted for 5% of the variance associated with instrumental violence.
Association study of the glycogen synthase kinase-3beta gene polymorphism with prophylactic lithium response in bipolar patients.	A relationship between response to lithium prophylaxis and T-50C polymorphism of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) gene was investigated in 89 bipolar patients (41 male and 48 female) who have been taking lithium for at least 5 years. The patients were delineated as excellent responders, partial responders and non-responders to lithium. The results obtained suggest that this polymorphism may not be related to the degree of prophylactic lithium response.
Low dairy intake in early childhood predicts excess body fat gain.	To estimate the effect of dairy intake in early childhood on the acquisition of body fat throughout childhood.
1H MR spectroscopy of the brain: absolute quantification of metabolites.	Hydrogen 1 (1H) magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy enables noninvasive in vivo quantification of metabolite concentrations in the brain. Currently, metabolite concentrations are most often presented as ratios (eg, relative to creatine) rather than as absolute concentrations. Despite the success of this approach, it has recently been suggested that relative quantification may introduce substantial errors and can lead to misinterpretation of spectral data and to erroneous metabolite values. The present review discusses relevant methods to obtain absolute metabolite concentrations with a clinical MR system by using single-voxel spectroscopy or chemical shift imaging. Important methodological aspects in an absolute quantification strategy are addressed, including radiofrequency coil properties, calibration procedures, spectral fitting methods, cerebrospinal fluid content correction, macromolecule suppression, and spectral editing. Techniques to obtain absolute concentrations are now available and can be successfully applied in clinical practice. Although the present review is focused on 1H MR spectroscopy of the brain, a large part of the methodology described can be applied to other tissues as well.
Auras are frequent in idiopathic generalized epilepsy.	The occurrence of an aura is often considered evidence of a partial rather than an idiopathic generalized epilepsy syndrome. The authors examined this hypothesis by prospectively recording reports of auras by patients being admitted for video-EEG monitoring. Auras were equally common (70%) among patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy as they were among those with localization-related epilepsy. Presence of an aura is not a reliable indicator of localization-related epilepsy.
Long pentraxin 3: a marker of inflammation in untreated psoriatic patients.	Psoriasis is a common cutaneous disorder characterized by abnormal epidermal differentiation, proliferation and inflammation mediated by dermal infiltrates, such as T cells, neutrophils, dendritic cells and macrophages. There are renewed interest in the role of components of the innate immune system. Cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin (IL)-6, and -1beta involved in pathogenic phenomena in psoriasis are known as inducers of the acute phase response. Among the large group of acute phase reactants, C-reactive protein (CRP) and fibrinogen are of special interest in psoriasis. The PTX-3, a long pentraxin sharing similarities with the classical short proteins. Thus, considering the numerous biological roles of inflammatory cytokines and their relationship with inflammatory markers, such as CRP and fibrinogen we have investigated the role of PTX3 in psoriasis. To this aim PTX3, TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-1beta in plasma and in monocytic cultures by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 44 patients including severe and mild psoriasis were measured. An increased production of PTX3, both in supernatant of purified monocytes and in plasma from patients with severe psoriasis, was found. The significant correlation, between cellular production and plasma levels of PTX3 in psoriasis was found as a sign of cellular activation by monocytes/macrophages that first infiltrate the psoriatic lesion. In severe psoriasis, a significant correlation between psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) score and TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels in both supernatant of monocytes and plasma was found. In contrast, no correlation was found for IL-1beta. By immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence, a strong PTX3 staining in fibroblasts, endothelial cells and monocytes/macrophages in severe psoriatic lesional skin was detected. Finally, a positive correlation between PTX3 and disease activity of psoriasis was observed as PASI score was elevated. These findings suggest that PTX3 could be used as a further marker of disease activity of psoriasis.
Heterogeneous expression of DNA-dependent protein kinase in esophageal cancer and normal epithelium.	Esophageal cancer tissues and adjacent normal mucosae in 13 patients with primary esophageal cancer were examined for quantitative differences in DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) activity and for expressions of Ku70, Ku80 and DNA-PKcs proteins by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The tumor tissues showed higher DNA-PK activity than the normal mucosae. Protein levels of Ku70, Ku80 and DNA-PKcs correlated with DNA-PK activities in the tumor tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ku70, Ku80 and DNA-PKcs located predominantly in the nuclei in both the tumor tissues and normal mucosae. In the normal epithelium, Ku70, Ku80 and DNA-PKcs were expressed only in the nuclei of the basal cell layers and not in those of the lumenal cell layers. In the tumor tissues, the expressions of DNA-PK proteins showed intratumoral heterogeneity. The different portions in the same tumor showed different expression levels of DNA-PK proteins, and even each tumor cell showed different expression levels. These results suggest that cell differentiation and tumor progression affect cellular DNA-PK protein levels and its activity. Furthermore, the intratumoral heterogeneity of DNA-PK protein expression in esophageal cancer cells/ tissues also suggests the difficulty in prediction of radio- or chemo-sensitivity of the tumor through estimation of DNA-PK activity/protein levels in tumor specimens.
Negative association between occurrence of type 1 diabetes and tuberculosis incidence at population level.	In the last decades of the 20th century, the incidence rate of type 1 diabetes increased in affluent countries. The pattern of occurrence of this autoimmune disease over time could provide helpful information to discriminate between alternative aetiologic hypotheses. In addition to genetic disposition, the incidence of type 1 diabetes seems to be conditioned by environmental factors and lifestyle. One theory proposes that the increase in the prevalence of autoimmune diseases is a result of the decrease in the incidence of childhood infections. To investigate the relationship between the incidence of type 1 diabetes and the decline of infectious diseases, we calculated the correlation between the occurrence of type 1 diabetes and tuberculosis in several European and non-European countries. The results of our analysis demonstrate an inverse correlation between the occurrences of type 1 diabetes and tuberculosis. A possible interpretation of this negative association is that a high socio-economic status and a westernised way of life imply a reduced or delayed exposure to infectious agents and so a reduced or delayed "pressure" on the immune system, which is free to mount inappropriate responses against self-antigens, as happens in type 1 diabetes.
Genotype-phenotype correlations in Hungarian patients with hereditary medullary thyroid cancer.	The genotype and phenotype characteristics of Hungarian patients with RET proto-oncogene mutations operated on for hereditary medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) were studied. The genetic screening was performed in two centers and 40 patients with hereditary MTC or C-cell hyperplasia (CCH) from 18 unrelated families were analyzed. One patient having a mutation in exon 16 (Met918Thr) presented with the MEN2B phenotype, six patients from two families had hereditary MTC without pheochromocytoma (pheo) and primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT), whereas 33 patients from 15 families showed the MEN2A phenotype. Two different mutations were identified in exon 10 (Cys609Tyr and Cys609Ser), five different mutations were present in exon 11 (Cys634Phe, Cys634Arg, Cys634Tyr, Cys634Trp and Cys634Ser), and two different mutations were localized in exon 14 (Val804Met and Val804Leu). Mutations in exon 10 were associated with hereditary MTC (Cys609Tyr) or with MEN2A syndrome (Cys609Ser). Mutations in exon 11 were always associated with the MEN2A phenotype. PHPT was present in one patient with mutation in exon 14 (Val804Met), whereas all other patients affected with mutations in exon 14 had hereditary MTC without PHPT and/or pheos.
Non-invasive assessment of respiratory muscle function and its relationship to exercise tolerance in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	Most patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have impaired respiratory muscle function. Maximal oesophageal pressure correlates closely with exercise tolerance and seems to predict the distance walked during the 6-min walk test. This study assessed the non-invasive parameters of respiratory muscle function in 41 patients with COPD to investigate their relationship to pulmonary function tests and exercise tolerance. The COPD patients, who demonstrated the full range of airway obstruction severity, had a mean forced expiratory volume in 1 s of 42.5% predicted (range, 20 - 79% predicted). Both the maximal inspiratory muscle strength and non-invasive tension-time index were significantly correlated with the degree of lung hyperinflation, as expressed by the ratio of residual volume to total lung capacity, and the distance walked in 6 min. We conclude that respiratory muscle function was influenced mainly by lung hyperinflation and that it had an important effect on exercise tolerance in COPD patients.
Clinical correlation between adenosine deaminase activity and pre-eclampsia severity.	This study evaluated the relationship between the activity of the inflammatory indicator adenosine deaminase (ADA) in placental tissue and maternal and fetal (umbilical cord) plasma and the severity of pre-eclampsia. Maternal and umbilical vein whole blood and placental tissue samples were collected from women with normal pregnancies (n = 33) and patients with mild (n = 12) or severe (n = 17) preeclampsia. ADA activity was measured spectrophotometrically. Significantly increased ADA activity was detected in maternal and fetal plasma, and placental tissue in patients with mild and severe pre-eclampsia compared with normal pregnancies; there were no significant differences between the mild and severe cases. The presence of increased ADA activity in pre-eclampsia is consistent with activation of the inflammatory system in this condition. The increased ADA activity was related to the presence of the disease but not the severity of clinical symptoms. Neonatal outcome did not significantly correlate with observed ADA activity.
Hopelessness, demoralization and suicidal behaviour: the backdrop to welfare reform in Australia.	To estimate rates of suicidal ideation and attempts, and psychological characteristics of demoralization among Australian income support recipients. To provide information for policy-makers to inform the current welfare reform discussion.
Psychological health of men with partners who have post-partum depression.	To compare the psychological health of men with partners who have post-partum depression (PPD; index group) with that of men with partners without PPD (comparison group).
Relation between vascular risk factors and cognition at age 75.	Recent trends in dementia research emphasize that not only cerebrovascular events but also vascular risk factors induce, favour or cause cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.
Psychopathology in tuberous sclerosis: an overview and findings in a population-based sample of adults with tuberous sclerosis.	Tuberous sclerosis (TS) is a multi- system disorder with complex genetics. The neurodevelopmental manifestations of TS are responsible for considerable morbidity. The prevalence of epilepsy and intellectual disabilities among individuals with TS have been well described. Ours is the first study that explores the prevalence and pattern of psychopathology in a population-based sample of adults with TS.
Relationship of DSM-IV-based depressive disorders to smoking cessation and smoking reduction in pregnant smokers.	This study investigated DSM-IV depressive disorders as predictors of smoking cessation and reduction in 81 pregnant smokers participating in a smoking cessation trial. Thirty-two percent of the sample met criteria for current dysthymia, major depressive disorder in partial remission, or minor depression. There was no significant reduction in smoking among women with or without current depressive disorders. Unexpectedly, as compared to women without depressive disorders, women with dysthymia significantly increased the mean number of cigarettes smoked (from 8 to 23 cigarettes per day during the 2 to 30 days post-targeted quit date period) and were smoking significantly more cigarettes at 30 days. A main effect approaching significance suggested that women with current depressive disorders were less likely to be abstinent than women without current depressive disorders (OR = 6.3; 3.9% vs. 12.7% at 30 days post-targeted quit date; 0% vs. 6.2% at 30 days post-partum). Results add to previous findings indicating a correlation between depressive symptoms and continued smoking in pregnant women. Further investigation of mood-focused smoking cessation interventions may be warranted.
Risk factors for suicide ideation and attempts among pathological gamblers.	The link between pathological gambling and suicide is poorly understood. The current study has two major goals: to provide descriptive information about suicide ideation and attempts among pathological gamblers trying to quit, and to identify predictors of suicidal ideation and attempts, with a particular emphasis on mood and substance use disorders. A community sample of 101 individuals with gambling problems who had made a recent quit attempt was assessed using structured instruments. Of these, 28.7% reported no history of suicide ideation or attempts, 38.6% reported having only thoughts of suicide, and 32.7% reported a suicide attempt. Ideation predated the onset of gambling problems by an average of greater than ten years. History of ideation was increasingly likely with a greater severity of gambling problem as determined by DSM criteria. Those experiencing ideation were also more likely to over gamble on gambling days and five times more likely to have a history of depression. Substance abuse history was the only factor that distinguished between individuals who had a history of suicide attempts versus ideation only. Having a drug history was related to a more than six times greater likelihood of having made a suicide attempt. Gambling-related suicide attempts were relatively rare-21.2% of attempters, or 7% of the total sample. These findings are consistent with the common factor model of etiology in which the suicidality of gambling is related to prior mental health disorders. More research on the relationship between alcohol and other drug disorders and their complex relationship to pathological gambling and suicide is crucial.
Modulation of competing memory systems by distraction.	Different forms of learning and memory depend on functionally and anatomically separable neural circuits [Squire, L. R. (1992) Psychol. Rev. 99, 195-231]. Declarative memory relies on a medial temporal lobe system, whereas habit learning relies on the striatum [Cohen, N. J. & Eichenbaum, H. (1993) Memory, Amnesia, and the Hippocampal System (MIT Press, Cambridge, MA)]. How these systems are engaged to optimize learning and behavior is not clear. Here, we present results from functional neuroimaging showing that the presence of a demanding secondary task during learning modulates the degree to which subjects solve a problem using either declarative memory or habit learning. Dual-task conditions did not reduce accuracy but reduced the amount of declarative learning about the task. Medial temporal lobe activity was correlated with task performance and declarative knowledge after learning under single-task conditions, whereas performance was correlated with striatal activity after dual-task learning conditions. These results demonstrate a fundamental difference in these memory systems in their sensitivity to concurrent distraction. The results are consistent with the notion that declarative and habit learning compete to mediate task performance, and they suggest that the presence of distraction can bias this competition. These results have implications for learning in multitask situations, suggesting that, even if distraction does not decrease the overall level of learning, it can result in the acquisition of knowledge that can be applied less flexibly in new situations.
Highly active antiretroviral therapy interruption: predictors and virological and immunologic consequences.	To characterize the magnitude and the predictors of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) interruption (TI) and to investigate its immunologic and virological consequences.
Prevalence of drug-resistance mutations and non-subtype B strains among HIV-infected infants from New York State.	Prevalence studies indicate that transmission of drug-resistant HIV has been rising in the adult population, but data from the perinatally infected pediatric population are limited. In this retrospective study, we sequenced the pol region of HIV from perinatally infected infants diagnosed in New York State in 2001-2002. Analyses of drug resistance, subtype diversity, and perinatal antiretroviral exposure were conducted, and the results were compared with those from a previous study of HIV-infected infants identified in 1998-1999. Eight of 42 infants (19.1%) had provirus carrying at least 1 drug-resistance mutation, an increase of 58% over the 1998-1999 results. Mutations conferring resistance to nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, and protease inhibitors were detected in 7.1%, 11.9%, and 2.4% of specimens, respectively. Consistent with previous results, perinatal antiretroviral exposure was not associated with drug resistance (P = 0.70). Phylogenetic analysis indicated that 16.7% of infants were infected with a non-subtype B strain of HIV. It seems that drug-resistant and non-subtype B strains of HIV are becoming increasingly common in the perinatally infected population. Our results highlight the value of resistance testing for all HIV-infected infants upon diagnosis and the need to consider subtype diversity in diagnostic and treatment strategies.
Impact of inversion of the CD4/CD8 ratio on the natural history of HIV-1 infection.	HIV-1 infection is characterized by an inverted CD4/CD8 T-cell ratio, but the distribution of inversions over time after seroconversion and whether delay of inversion is associated with a favorable prognosis are not known.
Risk factors for HIV infection in a national adult population: evidence from the 2003 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey.	To study demographic, social, behavioral, and biological variables as risk factors for HIV infection among men and women in Kenya.
Genetics of diabetic retinopathy.	Familial aggregation as well as racial and ethnic differences in incidence suggest that genetic components play a role in the development of diabetic retinopathy (DR), several approaches have been used to identify genes contributing to the development of retinopathy. We searched the literature database using the keywords [diabetes], [gene], for publications dealing with retinopathy. 88 original publications reporting data on genetics of retinopathy were found. For the purpose of this review, a simple scoring system was applied, that results in a score for each considered gene to indicate its potential relevance in genetic control of retinopathy. Based on published studies, the most intriguing genes for further genetic studies are aldose receptor, advanced glycation end products receptor, vascular endothelial growth factor, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, beta3-adrenergic receptor gene, hemochromatosis, and alpha2beta1 integrin. Pathways involving these gene products may represent a fruitful area for further studies aimed at investigating the genetics and pathophysiology of DR. Meta-analyses of candidate gene studies may provide further useful insights into their role. In addition, our paper addresses several issues challenging genetic studies of retinopathy such as replication of associations, patient ascertainment schemes, or accurately defined phenotypes.
Plasma homocysteine concentrations in young individuals at increased risk of type 2 diabetes are associated with subtle differences in glomerular filtration rate but not with insulin resistance.	Plasma homocysteine levels are elevated in individuals with type 2 diabetes contributing to the increased cardiovascular risk of these patients. As insulin resistance is a key feature in type 2 diabetic patients, hyperhomocysteinemia might be a consequence of insulin resistance. We studied this hypothesis in 839 individuals(male: 302, female: 537, mean age: 37.5 years) with a higher prevalence of insulin resistance (positive family history of type 2 diabetes, history of gestational diabetes, overweight). Subjects with overt type 2 diabetes or known kidney disease were excluded from the study. Mean plasma homocysteine concentration was 8.9 micromol/l (95% RCI 4.8-14.9). Adjusted for age and sex we could not find a significant correlation between homocysteine levels and BMI, insulin levels, or the insulin sensitivity-index (r = 0.35; p = 0.48). Furthermore, after a successful lifestyle intervention resulting in a significant decrease in BMI, body fat content and improved insulin sensitivity (p < 0.0001 each) no differences in homocysteine concentrations could be achieved. However,in the cross-sectional analysis we found a significant and independent, negative correlation between glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and homocysteine levels (r = -0.37; p < 0.0001). In conclusion, our study did not reveal a significant association between levels of homocysteine and insulin resistance in a population with an increased risk for type 2 diabetes. However, plasma homocysteine levels were related to subtle differences in kidney function at this early stage.
Quantitative analysis of semi-supine exercise echocardiography--influence of age on myocardial Doppler imaging indices.	This study was performed to evaluate the feasibility of quantitative analysis of exercise echocardiography using pulsed wave Doppler myocardial imaging (DMI) and to examine the relation between age and DMI parameters at rest and during graded exercise in normal subjects.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography in the evaluation of cardiac haemodynamics after repair of tetralogy of Fallot in children: negative effects of pulmonary regurgitation.	The aims were to evaluate right and left ventricular systolic function and pulmonary regurgitation (PR) at rest and during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) and to assess relationships between PR and cardiac haemodynamics in late postoperative tetralogy of Fallot patients.
Apolipoprotein-E polymorphism and response to pravastatin in men with coronary artery disease (REGRESS).	[corrected] The influence ofApoE polymorphism on the efficacy of statins in lowering plasma lipids and lipoproteins and improving angiographic parameters was assessed.
Low serum albumin levels in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: what does it mean?	Atrial fibrillation is the most common cardiac rhythm disturbance in clinical practice; its risk factors are complex and far from being clarified up to now. Previous studies demonstrated that hypoalbuminaemia significantly correlates with cardiac diseases.
Effect of radiofrequency catheter ablation on endothelial function and oxidative stress.	Thromboembolic complications commonly occur in radiofrequency (RF) ablation procedures. Endothelial injury is believed to be induced during the process of RF ablation and to be involved in the mechanisms of thromboembolism. In this study, we gave further information about endothelial injury and also investiged the possible reasons for endothelial dysfunction during RF.
Familial patterns in disorders of attention and impulse control]	Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) persists into adulthood in about 30 to 50% of cases. Symptoms of ADHD in parents might affect effective therapeutic approaches in children. The objective of this study was to investigate (1) the retrospective rate of ADHD in biological parents of children with a diagnosis of ADHD, (2) the relation between retrospective ADHD symptomatology and current attention problems and impulsivity in parents, (3) whether the degree of ADHD severity and comorbidty in ADHD children depends on parental ADHD symptoms. The Wender-Utah-Rating Scale for the retrospective assessment of childhood attention deficit hyperactivity disorder was administered to the biological parents of n = 68 ADHD patients and detected high rates of ADHD in fathers (31%) and mothers (25%) of patients with ADHD. Retrospectively assessed symptoms in parents correlated significantly with current symptoms of attention problems (ADD-Brown scales) and impulsivity (17). In children, the highest degree of ADHD symptoms and comorbidty was found in children with both parents suffering from ADHD in childhood compared to those with only one or none affected parent.
Stable isotope composition of daily and monthly precipitation in Zagreb.	Stable isotopic compositions (delta2H and delta18O) of daily precipitation collected in the period from October 2002 to March 2003 and monthly precipitation in the period from 2001 to 2003, as well as the corresponding meteorological data (temperature, amount of precipitation), all collected in Zagreb, Croatia, are presented. delta2H and delta18O values, both daily and monthly, show large variations due to large temperature variations and the different origin of the air masses. Variations are larger for daily samples than for composite monthly samples. Good correlation of delta18O with temperature is obtained for both types of samples. On the basis of the correlation between delta2H and delta18O, the local meteoric water line is close to the global meteoric water line. Deuterium excess of both daily and monthly precipitation indicates that in the Zagreb area, the influence of air masses from the Mediterranean area prevails in the autumn period.
Local field potential in cortical area MT: stimulus tuning and behavioral correlations.	Low-frequency electrical signals like those that compose the local field potential (LFP) can be detected at substantial distances from their point of origin within the brain. It is thus unclear how useful the LFP might be for assessing local function, for example, on the spatial scale of cortical columns. We addressed this problem by comparing speed and direction tuning of LFPs obtained from middle temporal area MT with the tuning of multiunit (MU) activity recorded simultaneously. We found that the LFP can be well tuned for speed and direction and is highly correlated with that of MU activity, particularly for frequencies at and above the gamma band. LFP tuning is substantially poorer for lower frequencies, although tuning for direction extends to lower frequencies than does tuning for speed. Our data suggest that LFP signals at and above the gamma band reflect neural processing on the spatial scale of cortical columns, within a few hundred micrometers of the electrode tip. Consistent with this notion, we also found that frequencies at and above the gamma band measured during a speed discrimination task exhibit an effect known as "choice probability," which reveals a particularly close relationship between neural activity and behavioral choices. In the LFP, this signature of the perceptual choice comprises a shift in relative power from low-frequency bands (alpha and beta) to the gamma band. It remains to be determined how LFP choice probability, which is a temporal signature, is related to conventional choice probability effects observed in spike rates.
Contribution of virus-induced lysis and protozoan grazing to benthic bacterial mortality estimated simultaneously in microcosms.	In contrast to the water column, the fate of bacterial production in freshwater sediments is still a matter of debate. Thus, the importance of virus-induced lysis and protozoan grazing of bacteria was investigated for the first time simultaneously in a silty sediment layer of a mesotrophic oxbow lake. Microcosms were installed in the laboratory in order to study the dynamics of these processes over 15 days. All microbial and physicochemical parameters showed acceptable resemblance to field data observed during a concomitant in situ study, and similar conclusions can be drawn with respect to the quantitative impact of viruses and protozoa on the bacterial compartment. Viral decay rates ranged from undetectable to 0.078 h(-1) (average, 0.033 h(-1)), and the control of bacterial production from below the detection limit to 36% (average, 12%). The contribution of virus-induced lysis of bacteria to the dissolved organic matter pool as well as to benthic bacterial nutrition was low. Ingestion rates of protozoan grazers ranged from undetectable to 24.7 bacteria per heterotrophic nanoflagellate (HNF) per hour (average, 4.8 bacteria HNF(-1) h(-1)) and from undetectable to 73.3 bacteria per ciliate per hour (average, 11.2 bacteria ciliate(-1) h(-1)). Heterotrophic nanoflagellate and ciliates together cropped up to 5% (average, 1%) of bacterial production. The viral impact on bacteria prevailed over protozoan grazing by a factor of 2.5-19.9 (average, 9.5). In sum, these factors together removed up to 36% (average, 12%) of bacterial production. The high number of correlations between viral and protozoan parameters is discussed in view of a possible relationship between virus removal and the presence of protozoan grazers.
Transitions of care and changes in distressing pain.	This study employed a 22-state mortality follow-back survey to examine bereaved family members' perception of the level and pattern of distressing pain in decedents with cancer at the last two sites of care. Of the 1,578 individuals interviewed, 423 of their family members had cancer listed as the leading cause of death on the decedent's death certificate. Decedents were treated at home, hospitals, hospices, or nursing homes, with more than half of the respondents (n = 216) reporting that the decedent was at more than one site of care in the last month. Forty-two percent of decedents had distressing pain (defined as "quite a bit" or "very much") at their second to last place of care, with 40% having distressing pain at the last place. There was some variation in the degree of change depending on the transition between the second to last and last places of care. For many individuals, however, the transition to another place of care did not result in an improvement in the level of distressing pain. No significant differences were found in the change in distressing pain by transition of care. Increased attention is needed not only on how to adequately manage pain and pain-related distress but also on how to improve pain reduction measures in transitions between health care settings at the end of life.
N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide levels: correlation with echocardiographically determined left ventricular diastolic function in an ambulatory cohort.	To investigate the correlations of plasma N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels with echocardiographic measurements of left ventricular (LV) systolic and/or diastolic function.
Preoperative pulmonary hypertension is associated with postoperative left ventricular dysfunction in chronic organic mitral regurgitation: an echocardiographic and hemodynamic study.	Some degree of pulmonary hypertension (PHTN) is common in patients with chronic mitral regurgitation. The aim of this study was to determine whether preoperative PHTN is associated with postoperative left ventricular (LV) dysfunction.
State-correlation matrix of the product pair from F + CD(4)--> DF(nu') + CD(3)(0 v(2) 0 0).	The title reaction was investigated under crossed-beam conditions at three different collision energies, E(c) = 8.4, 2.76 and 1.46 kcal mol(-1). The combination of using a (2 + 1) resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization for tagging state-specific CD(3) products and exploiting a time-sliced velocity imaging for ion detection allows us to reveal the coincident information of the two product pairs in a state-correlated manner. The pair-correlated results are reported for the two product vibrators -- (v(2) = 0, v'), (v(2) = 1, v'), (v(2) = 2, v') and (v(2) = 3, v')-and the dynamics attributes we examined include product state distributions, energy disposals and angular distributions. Together with our earlier communications, a rather complete picture of the correlated dynamics of the title reaction emerges. One of the major findings, the anti-correlated excitations of the two product vibrators at all four energies of this study, can qualitatively be understood by kinematics arguments.
An ethnographic study of job seeking among people with severe mental illness.	An ethnographic study employing intensive participant observation methods identified critical differences in styles of searching for competitive employment among people with severe mental illness and explored the social/cultural correlates of these job-seeking styles. Propensity for active job seeking was strongly associated with younger age, with participants' involvement in interdependent kin networks or households, with ethno-racial minority background, and with capacity for coherent discourse. Active job seekers did particularly well in a supported employment program, but also were able to find employment when assigned to other programs; passive job seekers had little success in any vocational program. The authors discuss several implications of these findings for vocational services.
Comparing the CAAPE, a new assessment tool for co-occurring disorders, with the SCID.	Co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders (COD) are common and frequently under-detected, which may lead to less than optimal treatment for persons in psychosocial rehabilitation settings. A new, relatively brief instrument, the Comprehensive Addictions and Psychological Evaluation (CAAPE) was compared with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID). The CAAPE required less time to administer than the SCID, efficiently explored DSM substance use disorder criteria and served as a screen for psychiatric disorders. The CAAPE promises to be a useful screening and diagnostic instrument for persons with co-occurring disorders, especially suited for use in psychosocial rehabilitation.
The infectivity of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy agent at low doses: the importance of phospholipid.	The issue of whether the mechanism of infection is independent or co-operative for low doses of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) agent is critical for risk assessment. The susceptibility (and hence ID(50)) of individuals with the same prion protein (PrP) genotype may vary considerably with a small proportion being very susceptible. Assuming independent action, the incubation period (IP) would continue to increase until the dose is below the ID(50) of the most susceptible individuals in the experiment, at which point it would become constant. This may explain the observed increase in IP with decreasing dose below the apparent ID(50) in experiments with untreated TSE agent. In contrast, IPs for autoclaved or NaOH-treated TSE agent increase greatly at doses <ID(50) suggesting strong co-operative action, or even a threshold. It is proposed here that the unit of infectivity for prion disease is a nucleation seed comprised of PrP and host phospholipid (PL). PL would play a structural role through mediating protein/lipid interactions with PrP. Heating or alkali treatment destroys the PL breaking up the nucleation seeds, which require long IPs to reform at low doses. Replenishing those inactivated PLs with host PL would explain how the phenotypic effect of long IP at low dose is lost on subpassage. It is proposed here that strain thermostability is controlled by the nature and strength of the PrP/PL interactions, which are independent of the host PrP genotype. Although repeated oral exposure to low doses of scrapie is less harmful than a single large exposure, this effect may reflect interference by competition rather than diminished risks due to a co-operative effect, and is of little importance for 'one-off' low-dose environmental exposures.
A marked enhancement in phytase production by a thermophilic mould Sporotrichum thermophile using statistical designs in a cost-effective cane molasses medium.	Statistical optimization of phytase production by a thermophilic mould Sporotrichum thermophile in a cost-effective cane molasses medium.
Laterality and accident proneness: a study of locomotive drivers.	This study attempted to find the association between four measures of laterality (handedness, footedness, eyedness, and earedness) and accident proneness in locomotive drivers. The Sidedness Bias Schedule was administered to a sample of 80 locomotive drivers to ascertain their preferential bias. Their accident records were also available. Positive correlations were mostly found between the measures of hand, foot, ear, and eye dominance. Analyses suggested that there was a higher accident rate among left-handers and left-footers, with multiple regression unable to determine whether handedness or footedness was related more strongly to accident proneness. However, it was clear that accident rate was primarily associated with direction of lateralisation, and not with degree of lateralisation. Drivers with left-handedness were more likely to be involved in accidents, and it is possible that that may be related to the design of the locomotive cabs.
The relationship between hand preference consistency, health, and accidents in a sample of adults over the age of 65 years.	As a result of the Coren and Halpern (1991) hypothesis that left hand preference may be associated with decreased survival fitness, there has been interest in exploring the relationship between hand preference and indices of health status. In a series of studies of university-aged adults, Hicks and his colleagues found a higher prevalence of accidental injuries, falls, and sleep problems among individuals with mixed, rather than left, hand preference. They argued that hand preference consistency, not side, may be a marker for possible reduction in health and well-being. We looked at the relationship between hand preference consistency and the prevalence of sleep problems, accidental injuries, falls, injuries from falls, and the prevalence of autoimmune and other illnesses in a sample of 1277 adults between the ages of 65 and 100 years. Of those participants who reported a recent fall, mixed-handers were more likely to report a higher number of injuries from these falls when compared to the reports of consistent-handers. In contrast to the previous findings of Hicks et al., and highlighting the value of including broader age ranges, all other comparisons showed no differences between the two hand preference types.
Hand skill and hand-eye preference in relation to verbal ability in healthy adult male and female right-handers.	Verbal as well as non-verbal performances were investigated in relation to both hand skill assessed by finger-tapping performances and hand-eye preference in 83 healthy adult right-handers, most of them students. The primary objective of this study was to show better finger-tapping performances in right-handed participants with best verbal IQ values. We found that it was not the non-verbal but the verbal abilities that were related to finger-tapping performances. This was proven, especially as to the left-hand taps. Faster left-hand taps in participants with higher verbal IQ values may be due to a closer cooperation of right-hemispheric regions in information processing and an intimate relationship between language and finger-motor functions. Secondary objectives assessed by explorative data analyses included gender differences and hand-eye preference. While in the females left-hand taps correlated somewhat more with verbal IQ values, in the males this effect was seen in selected variables of the right-hand taps. Moreover, laterality assessed in finger-tapping performances may not be in accordance with laterality found in the handedness questionnaire. In addition to this, congruent hand-eye dominance was found to be slightly more prevalent in participants with best verbal IQ values. However, these findings will have to be confirmed in further experiments.
Effects of diacylglycerol oil on adiposity in obese children: initial communication.	Several studies have shown that diacylglycerol (DAG) oil may suppress accumulation of body fat in adults compared to triacylglycerol (TAG) oil. In this study, we investigated the effect of DAG oil as part of dietetic therapy in obese children. The participants were 11 male and female obese children who were under treatment at the outpatient clinic (four boys, seven girls, age: 7-17 years old). Daily-use cooking oil was changed to DAG oil, and the effects on abdominal fat areas, adipocytokines, and serum lipids were investigated. The total and subcutaneous fat areas significantly decreased in the 5th month after ingestion of DAG oil. Leptin was significantly lower than the initial level after ingestion of DAG oil. The ingestion of DAG oil decreased both the abdominal fat area and leptin in obese children, suggesting that DAG oil prevents obesity in children as well as in adults.
Table detection in online ink notes.	In documents, tables are important structured objects that present statistical and relational information. In this paper, we present a robust system which is capable of detecting tables from free style online ink notes and extracting their structure so that they can be further edited in multiple ways. First, the primative structure of tables, i.e., candidates for ruling lines and table bounding boxes, are detected among drawing strokes. Second, the logical structure of tables is determined by normalizing the table skeletons, identifying the skeleton structure, and extracting the cell contents. The detection process is similar to a decision tree so that invalid candidates can be ruled out quickly. Experimental results suggest that our system is robust and accurate in dealing with tables having complex structure or drawn under complex situations.
Sick leave is related to frequencies of migraine and non-migrainous headache--The HUNT Study.	The aim of this large, cross-sectional, population-based study was to examine the association between sick leave and headache. Between 1995 and 1997, all 92 566 adults in Nord-Trøndelag County in Norway were invited to participate in a health survey. Out of 73 327 invited individuals <67 years old, a total of 38 192 (52%) responded to questions about headache, work situation and sick leave during the past year. Associations between sick leave, headache and migraine included were assessed in multivariate analyses, estimating prevalence odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). There was an increasing prevalence of sick leave with increasing frequency of migraine and non-migrainous headache. The prevalence of sick leave >8 weeks during the past year was more than three times higher among individuals with headache >14 days per month (20%) compared with those without headache (6%). The results may indicate that better treatment of individuals with chronic headache may have beneficial economic implications.
Accounting for cognitive aging: context processing, inhibition or processing speed?	Age-related deficits in context processing were examined in relationship to two predominant theories of cognitive aging (the Inhibitory Deficit and Processing Speed Models). Older and younger adults completed a measure of context processing (AX Continuous Performance Test (CPT) task) as well as a computerized battery of inhibitory tasks: Stroop, garden path sentences, go no-go, and the stop-signal paradigm. Participants also completed a simple processing speed task. After controlling for baseline differences in processing speed, age effects were detected on the AX-CPT. Smaller, but significant age effects were noted on the Stroop and stop-signal tasks, but no significant age effects were found on the garden path sentence and go no-go tasks. Intertask correlations were weak, providing little evidence for a homogenous or uniform construct of inhibition. The sensitivity of the AX-CPT to cognitive aging is discussed in the context of existing theories of cognitive aging. The authors suggest that deficits in context processing and utilization may underlie cognitive aging phenomena.
High-sensitivity blood-based detection of breast cancer by multi photon detection diagnostic proteomics.	We have developed several new methods for blood-based cancer detection by diagnostic proteomics. Ultrasensitive methods of immunoassay using multiphoton-detection (IA/MPD) increase sensitivity by 200- to 1,000-fold (1 femtogram/mL). This has allowed the measurement of cancer biomarkers with very low concentrations in blood that could not be measured for full patient cohorts with conventional immunoassays. Sensitivity and specificity in cancer detection have been found to be potentiated by use of immunoassay panels which include tissue-specific cancer biomarkers as well as cytokines and angiogenic factors. The ultrasensitive immunoassays revealed that patient to patient variations in the concentrations of individual biomarkers in blood can extend over many orders of magnitude (up to six) and that the distributions of biomarker concentrations over patient cohorts are non-Gaussian. New methods of data analysis which correlate abundances of multiple, different biomarkers have been developed to deal with such data sets. Sensitivity and specificity of about 95% have been achieved for blood-based detection of breast cancer in pilot studies on 250 patients and 95 controls. Pilot studies indicate that this methodology may also allow differentiation of malignant breast cancer from benign lesions and can provide similar sensitivity and specificity for other epithelial cancers such as prostate cancer, ovarian cancer and melanoma. The methods developed for selection, application, and evaluation of very high sensitivity biomarker panels are expected to have general relevance for diagnostic proteomics.
Predictors of psychological distress in survivors of the 1999 earthquakes in Turkey: effects of relocation after the disaster.	Relocations after disasters are known to cause added distress in survivors. This study examined the effects of migration and other factors on psychological status of survivors 4 years after the two severe earthquakes in Turkey.
Regulation of alpha7-nicotinic receptor subunit and alpha7-like gene expression in the prefrontal cortex of patients with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.	The alpha7-nicotinic receptor subunit gene (CHRNA7) is located at chromosome 15q13-14, a region previously linked with schizophrenia. Genetic association and mRNA expression studies also implicate CHRNA7 in schizophrenia. The CHRNA7 gene has a partial duplication that constitutes the alpha7-like nicotinic receptor gene (CHRFAM7A). We hypothesized that major psychoses could affect the expression of both CHRNA7 and CHRFAM7A.
Analysis of microarray experiments of gene expression profiling.	The study of gene expression profiling of cells and tissue has become a major tool for discovery in medicine. Microarray experiments allow description of genome-wide expression changes in health and disease. The results of such experiments are expected to change the methods employed in the diagnosis and prognosis of disease in obstetrics and gynecology. Moreover, an unbiased and systematic study of gene expression profiling should allow the establishment of a new taxonomy of disease for obstetric and gynecologic syndromes. Thus, a new era is emerging in which reproductive processes and disorders could be characterized using molecular tools and fingerprinting. The design, analysis, and interpretation of microarray experiments require specialized knowledge that is not part of the standard curriculum of our discipline. This article describes the types of studies that can be conducted with microarray experiments (class comparison, class prediction, class discovery). We discuss key issues pertaining to experimental design, data preprocessing, and gene selection methods. Common types of data representation are illustrated. Potential pitfalls in the interpretation of microarray experiments, as well as the strengths and limitations of this technology, are highlighted. This article is intended to assist clinicians in appraising the quality of the scientific evidence now reported in the obstetric and gynecologic literature.
The relationship between telomerase activity and proliferation in cutaneous melanoma.	Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein reverse transcriptase which RNA component (TERC) and reverse transcriptase (TERT) function together to elongate telomeres. If cells are to survive and proliferate indefinitely, telomere preservation is essential for the immortalization process. Somatic cells rarely possess TA, but over 90% of tumor cells express active telomerase. Increased cell proliferation and deregulation of cell cycle occur in human cancers, including cutaneous melanoma. The exact nature of links between TA, cell proliferation and apoptosis has not been extensively elucidated in cutaneous melanoma. We hypothesize a relationship between TA and cutaneous melanoma cell proliferation in a way that TA in telomere elongation is only an early event in cell immortalization. The telomere elongation makes their proliferation possible and being, at the same time, one of its limiting factors. But the TA other than telomere elongation (TERC independent) is crucial to initiate or restore melanoma cell proliferation. On the other hand, TA in telomere elongation, together with other factors (for example TNF), has an active anti-apoptotic role. This way melanoma cells overwhelm the apoptotic defense mechanisms, finally resulting in their indefinite proliferation. In evaluation of our hypothesis, we suggest thorough studies of both telomerase activity and proliferation in cutaneous melanoma on multiple checkpoints and targets. We also suggest combined analyses of TA and telomere length. This approach seems inevitable since it is obvious that telomerase is no longer just for the elongation of telomeres and, to our knowledge, most of the studies conducted so far evaluated TA as an expression of a single subunit or associated molecule.
Measles virus-specific antibody levels in individuals in Argentina who received a one-dose vaccine.	In spite of active measles virus (MV) vaccination strategies, reemergence continues to occur, impairing global eradication programs. The immune status against measles was evaluated in 350 vaccinated healthy Argentine children and teenagers who received a single dose of the MV Schwarz strain Lirugen vaccine (Aventis Pasteur). Sera were assessed for immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies by a commercial enzyme immunoassay (EIA) (Enzygnost; Behring), an in-house EIA, and neutralization EIA. Results obtained with these methods showed a marked decline in IgG level with increasing age. At 1 to 4 years of age, 84% of children had IgG antibodies above 200 mIU/ml, conventionally accepted as protective levels, whereas only 32% of older children and teenagers had antibody levels exceeding 200 mIU/ml. Moreover, the MV IgG content in the teenage group was significantly lower than the IgG antibody level of the group of younger children (P < 0.0001). In contrast, screening for IgG antibody levels to inactivated tetanus vaccine showed that, on average, 80% of this population was fully protected and that this high level of protection remained through the teenage years. This study suggests that within this population a considerable proportion of individuals had low measles antibody levels that may be insufficient to protect against reinfections or clinical disease.
Comparative analysis of prevalence, risk factors, and molecular epidemiology of antibiotic-associated diarrhea due to Clostridium difficile, Clostridium perfringens, and Staphylococcus aureus.	We prospectively studied the comparative epidemiology and risk factors for Clostridium difficile, Clostridium perfringens, and Staphylococcus aureus antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD). Four thousand six hundred fifty-nine inpatient fecal specimens (11 months) were tested for C. difficile cytotoxin, C. perfringens enterotoxin, and S. aureus by Vero cell assay, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and growth on fresh blood agar, respectively. Two distinct age-, sex-, and location-matched control patient groups were used for multivariate logistic regression risk factor analyses: symptomatic patients who were AAD pathogen negative and asymptomatic patients with histories of recent antimicrobial therapy. All AAD pathogen isolates were DNA fingerprinted. In AAD cases, the prevalences of C. difficile cytotoxin, C. perfringens enterotoxin, and S. aureus were 12.7%, 3.3%, and 0.2%, respectively (15.8% overall). Age of >70 years was a common risk factor. Other risk factors for infective AAD and C. difficile AAD included length of hospital stay and use of feeding tubes (length of stay odds ratios [OR], 1.017 and 1.012; feeding tube OR, 1.864 and 2.808). Female gender and use of antacids were significantly associated with increased risk of C. perfringens AAD (OR, 2.08 and 2.789, respectively), but unlike what was found for C. difficile AAD, specific antibiotic classes were not associated with increased risk. A limited number of genotypes caused the majority of C. difficile and C. perfringens AAD cases. Similar to what was found for C. difficile AAD, there was epidemiological evidence of C. perfringens AAD case clustering and reinfection due to different strains. C. difficile AAD was approximately 4 and 60 times more common than C. perfringens AAD and S. aureus AAD, respectively. Risk factors for these AAD pathogens differed, highlighting the need to define specific control measures. There is evidence of nosocomial transmission in cases of C. perfringens AAD.
European multicenter evaluation of high-density DNA probe arrays for detection of hepatitis B virus resistance mutations and identification of genotypes.	Polymorphisms along the hepatitis B virus (HBV) genome have an impact on disease outcome, sensitivity to antiviral treatment, escape from vaccination, and laboratory diagnosis. We have designed a diagnostic tool based on duplex amplification of the whole HBV genome and a high-density DNA chip designed to detect 245 mutations, 20 deletions, and 2 insertions at 151 positions and to determine the genotype of the virus in serum. Assay performances were evaluated with 170 samples, characterized by determination of viral load and sequencing of the Pol, S, and precore genes and the basal core promoter. One hundred fifty-three samples (90%) could be amplified and analyzed by the chip. Only two samples with more than 10(3) genome copies/ml could not be analyzed. Genotype had no impact on analytical sensitivity. Reproducibility studies showed no difference between repeats for codon and genotype determination. Genotype determination by sequencing and the chip were concordant in 148 of 151 samples. Twelve thousand one hundred sixty-one codons were analyzed by both techniques. Only 89.4% could be determined by sequencing, and among the remaining 11,335 codons, 92.8% were identical by sequencing and the chip. Failures to identify an amino acid by the chip were mainly due to reduced hybridization efficiency attributed to unexpected polymorphisms. Optimization of the chip-based reagent for the analysis of the HBV genome is ongoing. This first evaluation showed that DNA chip technology can provide important information in relation to the clinical management of chronic hepatitis B.
Prevalence of antibodies against herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 in children and young people in an urban region in Tanzania.	Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is transmitted by close contact, both sexual and nonsexual, and infections are acquired during childhood and adolescence. Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2), however, is thought to be transmitted mainly by sexual contact. Most HSV-2 infections are consequently expected to occur after the onset of sexual activity. Recent reports indicate an increasing prevalence of HSV-2 on the African continent, but most studies have been performed on adult cohorts. In the present study, we collected sera from Tanzanian children and young persons from 1 to 20 years old, with at least 100 individuals in each age group. Antibodies against HSV-1 and HSV-2 were detected by an in-house Western blot method which was shown to perform well in comparison with a commercial Western blot assay. Type-specific antibodies were also analyzed by two noncommercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay methods based upon the antigenicities of branched synthetic oligopeptides corresponding to epitopes in glycoprotein G of HSV-1 or HSV-2. The prevalence of HSV-1 antibodies increased gradually from 73% for the age group of 1 to 4 years to 92% for the age group of 17 to 20 years. The prevalence of HSV-2 antibodies was unexpectedly high, as 15% of the children were infected by the age of 8 years, with the incidence increasing gradually to 40% in the age group of 17 to 20 years. The reason for this unexpectedly high frequency is not clear but could suggest that nonsexual transmission of HSV-2 is more common than previously thought. There was no statistically significant association between seropositivities for HSV-2 and human immunodeficiency virus.
Epidemiology of candidemia in Brazil: a nationwide sentinel surveillance of candidemia in eleven medical centers.	Candidemia studies have documented geographic differences in rates and epidemiology, underscoring the need for surveillance to monitor trends. We conducted prospective candidemia surveillance in Brazil to assess the incidence, species distribution, frequency of antifungal resistance, and risk factors for fluconazole-resistant Candida species. Prospective laboratory-based surveillance was conducted from March 2003 to December 2004 in 11 medical centers located in 9 major Brazilian cities. A case of candidemia was defined as the isolation of Candida spp. from a blood culture. Incidence rates were calculated per 1,000 admissions and 1,000 patient-days. Antifungal susceptibility tests were performed by using the broth microdilution assay, according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines. We detected 712 cases, for an overall incidence of 2.49 cases per 1,000 admissions and 0.37 cases per 1,000 patient-days. The 30-day crude mortality was 54%. C. albicans was the most common species (40.9%), followed by C. tropicalis (20.9%) and C. parapsilosis (20.5%). Overall, decreased susceptibility to fluconazole occurred in 33 (5%) of incident isolates, 6 (1%) of which were resistant. There was a linear correlation between fluconazole and voriconazole MICs (r = 0.54 and P < 0.001 [Spearman's rho]). This is the largest multicenter candidemia study conducted in Latin America and shows the substantial morbidity and mortality of candidemia in Brazil. Antifungal resistance was rare, but correlation between fluconazole and voriconazole MICs suggests cross-resistance may occur.
Comparison of dalbavancin MIC values determined by Etest (AB BIODISK) and reference dilution methods using gram-positive organisms.	While standardized microdilution testing methodologies and quality control ranges exist for the novel glycolipopeptide dalbavancin, no testing methods have been described that are immediately available for routine use in clinical laboratories. In this study, we found that the dalbavancin Etest (AB BIODISK, Solna, Sweden) procedure demonstrated a high degree of agreement (100% within +/-2 log(2) dilution steps) with the standardized broth microdilution method, validating the use of the Etest as an alternative test for investigational or clinical purposes following regulatory approval.
The case for case reports: avoiding statistical seduction.	The management of patients with cancer teaches us the worth of logical thought, the advantage of flexibility of thinking and the thrill of occasionally doubting the experts. Asking questions and learning from the answers teaches us how to think. On the other hand, searching for the single best treatment, when no single treatment works for all patients, leads to a sort of intellectual tyranny that has numerous names: the gold standard, the community standard, best practice, and evidence-based medicine (EBM), with the implication that to take an alternative management route is substandard and unethical.
Clinical features and correlates of major depressive disorder in individuals with body dysmorphic disorder.	Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) appear highly comorbid. However, MDD in individuals with BDD has received little investigation.
Homocysteine levels are associated with the results of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine myocardial scintigraphy in type 2 diabetic patients.	Elevated total plasma homocysteine (tHcy) levels and cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction are associated with a high mortality in type 2 diabetic patients. We tested the hypothesis that hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with insulin resistance and cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction in type 2 diabetic patients not receiving insulin treatment.
Interplay between computational models and cognitive electrophysiology in visual word recognition.	In this article, we discuss the relevance of electrophysiological data to the enterprise of analyzing and understanding the reading process. Specifically, we detail how the event-related brain potential (ERP) technique (and its magnetic counterpart) can aid in development of models of visual word recognition. Any viable and accurate account of reading must take into account the temporal and anatomical constraints imposed by the fact that reading is a human brain function. We believe that neurophysiological (especially, although not limited to electrophysiological) data can serve an essential reference in the development of biologically realistic models of reading. We assess just how well extant electrophysiological data comport with specific predictions of existing computational models and offer some suggestions for the kinds of research that can address some of the remaining open questions.
Biodiversity informatics.	Biodiversity informatics is an emerging field that applies information management tools to the management and analysis of species-occurrence, taxonomic character, and image data. A wide and growing range of tools is available for both curators and researchers. The development and implementation of formal data exchange standards and query protocols have made it possible to integrate data holdings from collections around the world. The current technological environment is summarized; protocols, standards, and tools for data management, sharing, and integration are reviewed; and methods and tools for analyzing species-occurrence and character data are examined. Direct access to primary data and imagery has the power to transform the means by which taxonomy is practiced and its results disseminated to the general community.
Policy and practice in Myanmar's protected area system.	Myanmar's protected area (PA) system began nearly 150 years ago under royal patronage. Park policies and practices, embodied in 19 pieces of legislation developed sporadically during and after the colonial period. As a result of the FAO-UNDP's Nature Conservation and National Parks Project (1981-1985) the government established the Nature & Wildlife Conservation Division and placed it within the Forest Department as the agency responsible for PA management. As a consequence the number of parks increased from 14 to 33. Myanmar's median park size is less than 50 km(2), but only five parks (15%) are larger than 1000 km(2). Most parks conserve terrestrial habitats; parks encompassing inland wetlands, mangrove, and marine habitats are limited in number and size. Existing PAs unequally represent Myanmar's ecosystems; the Malay Transition, Burmese coast, Burmese Transition and Cardamom Mountains bio-units are under-represented within the system. The effective total PA size (i.e., area of all parks less the area of 13 paper parks) is currently about 2.1%. Budgetary support for parks increased 11% since 1996, but is insufficient to address park needs, particularly in remote parks that are understaffed. Limited education and training of PA staff is a major factor limiting effective park management. Fifty-eight percent of park wardens are educated as foresters, and 42% have university degrees. The average posting in a park is 4 years, which is less than ideal for management continuity. Recommended actions to secure Myanmar's PAs include evaluation and reformulation of policies, increasing representation of Myanmar's habitats within the PA system, management planning, and standardizing protocols for anti-poaching patrols and other forms of law enforcement. Improved leadership training for wardens and range forest officers can also improve park management. Funding for community relations and more integrated management of parks and people can reduce conflicts, while environmental education and outreach activities can provide some needed services. Finally, new ways and means are needed to support these activities. Myanmar's PAs need creative and sustainable means of support, including partnerships with non-government organizations to supplement traditional means of support.
A contextual analysis of attention to chronic pain: what the patient does with their pain might be more important than their awareness or vigilance alone.	It is often believed that to feel greater pain is to experience greater effects of that pain, and that attention and awareness represent the transmission mechanism in this relationship. By implication, it is assumed that if attention and awareness can be lessened, the effects of pain will likewise reduce. Despite conceptual work and data suggesting more complex processes might indeed be in place, these long-standing and intuitively appealing ideas remain, either explicitly or implicitly, in both research and clinical applications. The purpose of this study was to compare the role of attentional processes in chronic pain with a process that is more contextual, functional, and behavior-focused, namely, acceptance. The hypothesis tested is whether it is more important to understand the amount of contact an individual has with pain, in this case awareness and vigilance to pain, or the degree of influence on behavior brought with that contact, in this case acceptance. Data from 227 patients seeking treatment for chronic pain were examined. Results from correlation analyses showed that acceptance scores achieved stronger correlations than scores for the attention variables with measures of cognitive, emotional, social, and physical functioning. When acceptance of pain was taken into account in multiple regression analyses, scores from the attention measures accounted for little or no variance in measures of patient functioning. The value of various mental, mechanical, behavior-focused, and contextual models of attention in chronic pain is discussed.
Correlations of functional capacity and neuropsychological performance in older patients with schizophrenia: evidence for specificity of relationships?	Neuropsychological (NP) performance is a consistent correlate of everyday functioning in schizophrenia, but it is unclear whether relationships between individual NP ability areas and domains of everyday functioning are general or specific. Assessments of real-world everyday functioning may be influenced by environmental and social factors (e.g., social security, disability status, opportunities and restrictions in living situations). This study examined the specificity of the relationships between different NP abilities and performance-based measures of social and living skills.
An integrated biomedical knowledge extraction and analysis platform: using federated search and document clustering technology.	High content screening (HCS) requires time-consuming and often complex iterative information retrieval and assessment approaches to optimally conduct drug discovery programs and biomedical research. Pre- and post-HCS experimentation both require the retrieval of information from public as well as proprietary literature in addition to structured information assets such as compound libraries and projects databases. Unfortunately, this information is typically scattered across a plethora of proprietary bioinformatics tools and databases and public domain sources. Consequently, single search requests must be presented to each information repository, forcing the results to be manually integrated for a meaningful result set. Furthermore, these bioinformatics tools and data repositories are becoming increasingly complex to use; typically they fail to allow for more natural query interfaces. Vivisimo has developed an enterprise software platform to bridge disparate silos of information. The platform automatically categorizes search results into descriptive folders without the use of taxonomies to drive the categorization. A new approach to information retrieval for HCS experimentation is proposed.
Visualization of high content screening data.	Visualization is essential to the understanding of complex data derived from high content screening. It is necessary to present information in a way that captures patterns and trends in the data in order to answer specific questions while also providing a way to formulate new questions and hypothesis. Specific types of visualizations can provide information on the quality of the data, temporal, and spatial patterns of cellular response, cell phenotype, and the relationship to additional data such as the chemical structure of test compounds. Interacting with this data through linked visualizations and visual filtering facilitates exploration and hypothesis generation to better understand biological systems.
Systems biology in cancer research: genomics to cellomics.	Cancers result from large-scale deregulation of genes that lead to cancer pathophysiologies such as increase proliferation, decreased apoptosis, increased motility, increased angiogenesis, and others. Genes that influence proliferation and apoptosis are particularly attractive as therapeutic targets. To identify genes that influence these phenotypes, we have developed simple and rapid methods to measure apoptosis and cell proliferation using high content screening with YO-PRO-1 and anti-BrdU staining of BrdU pulsed cells, respectively.
Circadian rhythm abnormalities in the acute phase of cerebral infarction correlate with poor prognosis in the chronic phase.	The aim of this study was to determine circadian rhythm abnormalities in patients with acute cerebral infarction and their relationship with prognosis in the chronic phase. The subjects were 50 patients who were admitted within 48 h of onset. Rectal temperature and wrist motor activity were recorded during the acute phase. Time-series data were assayed by MEM spectral analysis. Functional prognosis (degree of handicap) was assessed at 3 months after stroke onset by the modified Rankin Scale. Ambulatory patients tended to exhibit circadian rhythm in rectal temperature and/or wrist activity rhythms, whereas non-ambulatory patients did not (P < 0.001) in the acute phase of ischemic stroke. Our findings suggest the biological rhythms of rectal temperature and wrist activity during the acute stroke phase might be a possible prognostic indicator of their chronic phase.
Membrane fatty acids, reading and spelling in dyslexic and non-dyslexic adults.	Increasing evidence implicates functional deficiencies or imbalances of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids in dyslexia. The associations between literacy skills and omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acid status were examined. 32 dyslexics and 20 controls completed standardised tests of reading and spelling and gave venous blood samples for analysis of the polar lipid fatty acid composition of red blood cell (RBC) membranes. Relationships between literacy skills and omega-3 and omega-6 concentrations were examined using rank-order correlations. Better word reading was associated with higher total omega-3 concentrations in both dyslexic and control groups. In dyslexic subjects only, reading performance was negatively associated with the ratio of arachidonic acid/eicosapentaenoic acid (ARA/EPA) and with total omega-6 concentrations. There were no significant differences in membrane fatty acid levels between the dyslexic and control subjects. However, the finding that omega-3 status was directly related to reading performance irrespective of dyslexia supports a dimensional view of this condition, and our results also suggest that it is the omega-3/omega-6 balance that is particularly relevant to dyslexia.
A neuropsychological comparison of obsessive-compulsive disorder and trichotillomania.	Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and trichotillomania (compulsive hair-pulling) share overlapping co-morbidity, familial transmission, and phenomenology. However, the extent to which these disorders share a common cognitive phenotype has yet to be elucidated using patients without confounding co-morbidities.
Prevalence and correlates of adequate performance on a measure of abilities related to decisional capacity: differences among three standards for the MacCAT-CR in patients with schizophrenia.	Despite the availability of structured decision-making capacity assessment tools, insufficient guidance exists for applying their results. Investigators often use cutpoints on these instruments to identify potential subjects in need of further assessment or education. Yet, information is lacking regarding the effects of different cutpoints on the proportion and characteristics of individuals categorized as possessing adequate or impaired decisional abilities for consent to research. To demonstrate the potential impact of different standards, we informed 91 individuals, aged 50 or older with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, about a hypothetical clinical trial, and assessed their decisional abilities with the MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool for Clinical Research (MacCAT-CR). Three published MacCAT-CR-based standards were applied to participants' scores to examine the rates and correlates of categorical determinations of adequate performance. The three standards ranged in stringency: the most stringent incorporated cutpoints on all three of the major MacCAT-CR subscales (Understanding, Appreciation, and Reasoning); the other two standards required threshold performance only on the Understanding subscale. The most stringent standard resulted in a 57% rate of impaired performance; the intermediate standard, 19%; and the least stringent standard, 8%. Nearly half of the participants (n=45) were classified as having performed adequately by the least stringent standard yet inadequately by the most stringent. The majority of these 45 were impaired on the Appreciation subscale (n=9), Reasoning (n=15), or both (n=18). Cognitive functioning was correlated with performance status for the more stringent standards. These findings underscore the need for refinement of capacity assessment procedures and for improvements in the use of capacity assessment tools for screening purposes and to assist in categorical capacity determinations.
Effect of clinical variables on the correlation between amount of ST elevation and myocardial scintigraphic perfusion defect during coronary occlusion.	We investigated if the correlation between the amount of ST elevation (STE) and myocardial ischemia could be altered by variables such as hypertension or body mass index (BMI).
MRI abnormalities of the hippocampus and cavum septi pellucidi in females with schizotypal personality disorder.	This study examined MRI hippocampal volume and cavum septi pellucidi (CSP) in female subjects with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) and comparison subjects.
Tendons in the plantar aspect of the foot: MR imaging and anatomic correlation in cadavers.	The purpose of this anatomic imaging study was to illustrate the normal complex anatomy of tendons of the plantar aspect of the ankle and foot using magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with anatomic correlation in cadavers.
Smoking, traumatic event exposure, and post-traumatic stress: a critical review of the empirical literature.	The current review critically examines the extant empirical literature focused on the associations among cigarette smoking, trauma, and post-traumatic stress. Inspection of the extant literature suggests that smoking rates are significantly higher among persons exposed to a traumatic event relative to those without such exposure. Moreover, smoking rates appear particularly high among persons with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In terms of the direction of this relation, evidence most clearly suggests that post-traumatic stress is involved in the development of smoking. Significantly less is known about the role of trauma and PTSD in terms of cessation outcome. Limitations of extant work, clinical implications, and key directions for future study are delineated.
Digital image correlation: a technique for determining local mechanical conditions within early bone callus.	Local mechanical conditions are known to play a role during the regeneration of musculoskeletal tissues, and histomorphometrical investigations of the time course of healing have enabled specific conclusions regarding the mechanosensitivity of tissue differentiation. However, the mechanism for this influence is not clearly understood. In order to extend this analysis, it is essential to link local histological understanding with direct characterisation of the local mechanical environment. Digital image correlation (DIC) is a computer-based image analysis technique that enables the non-contact measurement of strains on material surfaces and is finding application in many areas of biomechanics. Here we report a DIC technique to investigate the local distribution of mechanical strain within regenerating soft tissue sections. We provide exemplary data from analysis of a section of sheep bone callus. An assessment of displacement measurement accuracy gave an RMS error of 4.2 microm, corresponding to an estimated strain error of 1.4%. The sections showed concentrations of up to four times the applied strain and comparison of the strain patterns with histological analysis confirmed that these concentrations reflected boundaries between hard and soft callus.
Controlled study on the combined effect of alcohol and tobacco smoking on testosterone in alcohol-dependent men.	The present study examined the association between pre-treatment drinking and smoking parameters and plasma testosterone levels before and after alcohol withdrawal.
Estimation of time delay between EEG signals for epileptic focus localization: statistical error considerations.	A theoretical analysis of the variance for the time delay estimate between two EEG signals, obtained via the phase spectrum method, is presented. Explicit theoretical formulae for the variance are obtained and compared via simulations to experimentally derived results for estimate variability. The variance of the time delay estimate is inversely proportional to the frequency range of interest, to the number of data segments utilized for spectral estimation, and to the coherence between the two EEG signals. The simulations indicate that the formulae can be used even with non-gaussian and relatively narrow-band EEG-like data. A minimum-variance estimate for the time delay is also presented.
Biological parametric mapping: A statistical toolbox for multimodality brain image analysis.	In recent years, multiple brain MR imaging modalities have emerged; however, analysis methodologies have mainly remained modality-specific. In addition, when comparing across imaging modalities, most researchers have been forced to rely on simple region-of-interest type analyses, which do not allow the voxel-by-voxel comparisons necessary to answer more sophisticated neuroscience questions. To overcome these limitations, we developed a toolbox for multimodal image analysis called biological parametric mapping (BPM), based on a voxel-wise use of the general linear model. The BPM toolbox incorporates information obtained from other modalities as regressors in a voxel-wise analysis, thereby permitting investigation of more sophisticated hypotheses. The BPM toolbox has been developed in Matlab with a user-friendly interface for performing analyses, including voxel-wise multimodal correlation, ANCOVA, and multiple regression. It has a high degree of integration with the SPM (statistical parametric mapping) software relying on it for visualization and statistical inference. Furthermore, statistical inference for a correlation field, rather than a widely used T-field, has been implemented in the correlation analysis for more accurate results. An example with in vivo data is presented, demonstrating the potential of the BPM methodology as a tool for multimodal image analysis.
Structural analysis of the basal ganglia in schizophrenia.	Increases in the total volume of basal ganglia structures have been reported in schizophrenia. However, patterns of basal ganglia shape change, which can reveal localized changes in substructure volumes, have not been investigated. In this study, the total volume and shape of several basal ganglia structures were compared in subjects with and without schizophrenia. T(1)-weighted magnetic resonance scans were collected in 54 schizophrenia and 70 comparison subjects. High-dimensional (large-deformation) brain mapping was used to assess the shape and volume of several basal ganglia structures. The relationships of shape and volume measures with psychopathology, cognition and motor function were also assessed. Left and right volumes of the caudate and putamen, as well as the right globus pallidus volume, were significantly increased in subjects with schizophrenia as compared to comparison subjects after total brain volume was included as a covariate. Significant differences in shape accompanied these volume changes in the caudate, putamen and globus pallidus, after their total volumes were included as covariates. There were few significant correlations between volume or shape measures and either cognitive function or clinical symptoms, other than a positive correlation between an attention/vigilance cognitive dimension and the volume of the caudate and putamen, and a negative correlation between nucleus accumbens volume and delusions. In conclusion, basal ganglia volumes relative to total brain volume were larger in schizophrenia subjects than healthy comparison subjects. Specific patterns of shape change accompanied these volume differences.
Prenatal manganese levels linked to childhood behavioral disinhibition.	Although manganese (Mn) is an essential mineral, high concentrations of the metal can result in a neurotoxic syndrome affecting dopamine balance and behavior control. We report an exploratory study showing an association between Mn deposits in tooth enamel, dating to the 20th and 62-64th gestational weeks, and childhood behavioral outcomes. In a sample of 27 children, 20th week Mn level was significantly and positively correlated with measures of behavioral disinhibition, specifically, play with a forbidden toy (36 months), impulsive errors on a continuous performance and a children's Stroop test (54 months), parents' and teachers' ratings of externalizing and attention problems on the Child Behavior Checklist (1st and 3rd grades), and teacher ratings on the Disruptive Behavior Disorders Scale (3rd grade). By way of contrast, Mn level in tooth enamel formed at the 62-64th gestational week was correlated only with teachers' reports of externalizing behavior in 1st and 3rd grades. Although the source(s) of Mn exposure in this sample are unknown, one hypothesis, overabsorption of Mn secondary to gestational iron-deficiency anemia, is discussed.
Extending the validity of the Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer (MAX-PC) at the time of prostate biopsy in a racially-mixed population.	The Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer (MAX-PC) has been validated for assessing men with prostate cancer for cancer-specific anxiety. It was originally validated in a predominantly white population. The MAX-PC Prostate Cancer Anxiety Subscale (MAX-PC-PCAS) may be relevant for measuring cancer-specific anxiety in undiagnosed men at risk for prostate cancer. We assess the validity of the MAX-PC-PCAS at the time of prostate biopsy (n = 178). Questions assessed socio-demographic information, health status, patient-estimated risk of cancer, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale--Anxiety Subscale (HADS-A), and the MAX-PC-PCAS. The patients' most recent PSA was recorded. Cronbach's alpha, inter-item correlations, and Pearson correlations with both the HADS-A and clinical variables were compared with the original validation sample. Our sample was younger (63.1 vs 71.1 years), had a larger fraction of African-Americans (43 vs 10%), and had higher PSAs. Cronbach's alpha was equivalent (0.91 vs 0.90), median inter-item correlation was equivalent (0.63 vs 0.61), and Pearson correlation with HADS-A was higher (0.71 vs 0.57). Anxiety levels were not correlated with PSA levels, and there were minor differences in the validation findings by race. The validity of the MAX-PC-PCAS extends to men without cancer undergoing biopsy and to African-Americans.
Relationship between hypoactive sexual desire disorder and aging.	Explore the association between Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD) and aging. The American Foundation of Urologic Disease and the American Psychiatric Association stipulate that HSDD is only diagnosed when both low sexual desire and sexually related personal distress are present.
Relationship between endometrial thickness and embryo implantation, based on 1,294 cycles of in vitro fertilization with transfer of two blastocyst-stage embryos.	To evaluate the relationship between endometrial thickness and clinical outcome of IVF and ET.
Increased levels of air pollution and a decrease in the human and mouse male-to-female ratio in São Paulo, Brazil.	A significant negative association (R(2) = 0.7642; P=.013) between particulate matter and secondary sex ratio was found when evaluating people in the city of São Paulo, Brazil. An animal model with male mice raised in nonfiltered open-top chambers showed a significant reduction in the secondary sex ratio (P=.041), suggesting that ambient air pollution may interfere with sex distribution by altering the X:Y sperm proportion in pollution-exposed males.
Volumetric evaluation of the paranasal sinuses in normal subjects using computer tomography images: a stereological study.	The size and shape of paranasal sinuses are especially relevant when considering endoscopic sinus surgery. For this reason, the size of the paranasal sinuses has been the subject of many studies, none of which has used stereological methods to estimate the volume. In the present stereological study, we estimated the volume of paranasal sinuses of normal males and females.
Particle image correlation spectroscopy (PICS): retrieving nanometer-scale correlations from high-density single-molecule position data.	A new data analysis tool that resolves correlations on the nanometer length and millisecond timescale is derived. This tool, adapted from methods of spatiotemporal image correlation spectroscopy, exploits the high positional accuracy of single-particle tracking. While conventional tracking methods break down if multiple particle trajectories intersect, our method works in principle for arbitrarily large molecule densities and diffusion coefficients as long as individual molecules can be identified. The method is computationally cheap and robust and requires no a priori knowledge about the dynamical coefficients, as opposed to other methods. We demonstrate the validity of the method by Monte Carlo simulations and by application to single-molecule tracking data of membrane-anchored proteins in live cells. The results faithfully reproduce those obtained by conventional tracking. Upon activation, a fraction of the small GTPase H-Ras is confined to domains of <200 nm diameter, which further substantiates the prediction that membrane organization is a determinant in cellular signaling.
Role of [18F]FDG PET/CT in the assessment of suspected recurrent ovarian cancer: correlation with clinical or histological findings.	To evaluate the accuracy of integrated positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT) for depiction of suspected recurrent ovarian carcinoma after treatment, with use of clinical or histological findings as the reference standard.
Effect of comorbid symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder on responses to atomoxetine in children with ADHD: a meta-analysis of controlled clinical trial data.	Up to 60% of children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) suffer from comorbid affective or behavioral impairments, the most common condition being oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), which occurs in 40-60% of children with ADHD.
Gambling level and psychiatric and medical disorders in older adults: results from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions.	This study examined the association between gambling level and psychiatric and medical disorders in a nationally representative sample of older adults.
Influence of assay method differences on multiple of the median distributions: maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein as an example.	A straightforward statistical explanation is provided to show how differences between assay methods can affect the distribution of the multiples of the median (MoM). Evaluation of the impact of assay method differences reveals that the upper tails of the MoM distribution are not affected to the same degree as the lower tails of the distribution. The disparities in MoM distributions due to assay method differences result in various sensitivity/specificity combinations for different assays having the same fixed MoM cutoffs. Disparities do not exist if risks are calculated with use of the distributions for affected and unaffected populations that are based on a center's own assay method. Applying published risk tables, however, can affect the accuracy of the risk estimates. We used maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein as an example of an assay with an established history of reporting results in MoM values; however, the concepts presented apply equally well to any assay for which results are reported in MoMs.
The association of insight with psychotic symptoms, depression, and cognition in early psychosis: a 3-year follow-up.	Recent research has begun to examine the level of insight following a first episode of psychosis since this may have implications for outcome. Insight was investigated in 278 individuals consecutively admitted to a comprehensive early psychosis treatment program. Insight, symptoms and cognition were assessed on admission and after one, two and three years. Sixty percent had good insight at baseline and this improved significantly to 80% at one year. Insight remained good at years 2 and 3 with 78.6% and 82.8%, respectively, having good insight. A comparison of those with good to those with poor insight revealed that at each assessment point those with poor insight had significantly higher ratings on positive, negative and general psychopathology symptoms (all at p<0.001). Additionally those with good insight had significantly higher levels of depression at baseline (p=0.001). With respect to cognition when using a composite cognitive factor there was a significant advantage for the good insight group at one year (p=0.01). Overall results show that a significant proportion of individuals have good insight following a first episode of psychosis. For this group depression may be a significant concern at least upon initial presentation. Those with poor insight have increased symptoms throughout the first three years and possibly poorer cognitive functioning.
Prefrontal cortex and insight in schizophrenia: a volumetric MRI study.	Previous studies have suggested a relationship between frontal lobe-based neuropsychological functions and insight in schizophrenia. There is some evidence linking both smaller whole brain volume and frontal cortical atrophy to poor insight in this population. We investigated the relationship between total as well as specific prefrontal regional volumes and insight in schizophrenia. Twenty-eight stable outpatients with schizophrenia underwent magnetic resonance imaging scanning and assessment for insight. Insight was measured using the Birchwood self-report Insight Scale and the Expanded Schedule of Assessment of Insight. The whole brain and prefrontal regional (superior frontal, middle frontal, inferior frontal and orbitofrontal) volumes were then manually measured using the Cavalieri method and established criteria. Twenty healthy subjects were also scanned to provide control data for volumetric assessments. Smaller total prefrontal grey matter volume was moderately associated with a lower level of insight into the presence of illness. At the prefrontal sub-regional level, volumes of the superior, inferior and orbitofrontal regions contributed to this relationship, especially in males. It is concluded that smaller prefrontal grey matter volume is associated with poor insight into the presence of illness in stable schizophrenia patients. Future research should examine the association of specific dimensions of insight with frontal as well as non-frontal regional brain volumes.
Human experimental exposure study on the uptake and urinary elimination of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) during simulated workplace conditions.	A human experimental study was carried out with 16 volunteers to examine the elimination of N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) after exposure to the solvent under simulated workplace conditions. The NMP concentrations were 10, 40 and 80 mg/m(3) for 2 x 4 h with an exposure-free interval of 30 min. Additionally, a peak exposure scenario (25 mg/m(3) baseline, 160 mg/m(3) peaks for 4 x 15 min, time-weighted average: 72 mg/m(3)) was tested. The influence of physical activity on the uptake and elimination of NMP was studied under otherwise identical exposure conditions but involving moderate workload on a bicycle ergometer (75 W for 6 x 10 min). The peak times and biological half-lives of urinary NMP and its main metabolites 5-hydroxy-N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (5-HNMP) and 2-hydroxy-N-methylsuccinimide (2-HMSI) in urine were analysed as well as the interrelationships between exposure and biomarkers. All analytes showed a close correlation between their post-shift peak concentrations and airborne NMP. An exposure to the current German workplace limit value of 80 mg/m(3) under resting conditions resulted in urinary peak concentrations of 2,400 microg/L NMP, 117 mg/g creatinine 5-HNMP and 32 mg/g creatinine 2-HMSI (workload conditions: 3,400 microg/L NMP, 150 mg/g creatinine 5-HNMP, 44 mg/g creatinine 2-HMSI). Moderate workload enhanced the total uptake of NMP by approximately one third. Differences between the estimated and the observed total amount of urinary metabolites point to a significant contribution of dermal absorption on the uptake of NMP. This aspect, together with the influence of physical workload, should be considered for the evaluation of a biological limit value for NMP.
Environment and schizophrenia: environmental factors in schizophrenia: childhood trauma--a critical review.	There is renewed interest in the relationship between early childhood trauma and risk of psychosis in adulthood. There are a large number of studies of psychiatric inpatients, and of outpatients in which a majority have a psychotic disorder, that suggest the prevalence of childhood trauma in these populations is high. However, these are generally small studies of diagnostically heterogeneous and chronic samples and, as such, can tell us very little about whether childhood trauma is of etiological importance in psychosis. A small number of recent population-based studies provide more robust evidence of an association, and there are now plausible biological mechanisms linking childhood trauma and psychosis. However, there remain a number of conceptual and methodological issues, which mean much more research is needed before firm conclusions can be drawn about whether childhood trauma is a cause of psychosis.
Association of anti-mullerian hormone levels with obesity in late reproductive-age women.	To describe anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) levels in healthy late reproductive age women and test the hypothesis that AMH levels are lower in obese compared to non-obese women.
Self-reported pain sensitivity: lack of correlation with pain threshold and tolerance.	Many recent studies and several reviews have highlighted the potential clinical applications of experimental pain testing (e.g., for predicting post-surgical pain, treatment responsiveness, etc.). However, the implementation of quantitative sensory testing of pain sensitivity on a broad scale is limited by requirements of time, equipment, and expertise, and their associated costs. One reasonable question is whether one can obtain, via self-report, a valid index of an individual's pain sensitivity and pain tolerance. We analyzed data from a large number of subjects (n=505) who had undergone standardized thermal pain testing, and found that while higher self-reported pain sensitivity was associated with higher scores on a measure of anxiety, no relationship was observed between subjects' self-report of pain sensitivity and subjects' actual pain threshold or tolerance. These findings suggest that circumventing psychophysical pain testing by assessing individuals' self-reported pain sensitivity is unlikely to be a useful strategy.
Alcohol intake and incidence of coronary disease in Australian aborigines.	To examine risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in relation to alcohol in a cohort of Australian Aborigines.
The real estate factor: quantifying the impact of infarct location on stroke severity.	The severity of the neurological deficit after ischemic stroke is moderately correlated with infarct volume. In the current study, we sought to quantify the impact of location on neurological deficit severity and to delineate this impact from that of volume.
Increased plasma substance P and CGRP levels, and high ACE activity in migraineurs during headache-free periods.	Substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) may have roles in trigeminovascular nociceptive mechanisms. We investigated interictal levels of SP, CGRP, ACE activity, and their correlation, in a sample of migraineurs. Forty-one patients suffering from migraine with aura (MA), 54 without aura (MO), and 52 non-headache subjects (controls) participated in this study. Blood samples were collected from cubital veins. Plasma levels of SP and CGRP were measured by enzyme immunoassay. Plasma ACE activities were measured spectrophotometrically. SP levels in MA (6.6+/-3.7 pg/ml; mean+/-SD) and MO (6.6+/-3.2 pg/ml) were significantly higher than in controls (4.8+/-2.4 pg/ml) (P<0.01). CGRP levels in MA (18.8+/-8.8 pg/ml) and MO (19.1+/-9.4 pg/ml) were also significantly higher than in controls (13.4+/-4.4 pg/ml) (P<0.01). ACE activities in MA (34.6+/-19.0 U/l) were significantly higher than in MO (25.3+/-13.2 U/l) and controls (27.0+/-20.4 U/l) (P<0.05). There was a significant correlation between SP and CGRP levels (P<0.05). In MA, SP and CGRP showed a tendency toward positive correlation, which was not significant. There was a weak, but significant positive correlation between SP levels and ACE activities (P<0.01). However, a relationship between ACE activities and CGRP levels was not observed. The data suggest that SP, CGRP, and ACE are relevant to migraine pathophysiology, and that they may interact.
Environmental stress, psychological stress and allostatic load.	The mechanism by which chronic caregiving stress results in poor health is not well understood. The objective was to determine whether such a mechanism may be allostatic load, a novel concept specifying physiological systems that may suffer cumulative wear and tear following chronic stress, leading collectively to poor health. The study examines the association of allostatic load with environmental and psychological stress in the contexts of dementia caregiving and relinquishment of care, and is a 2-year longitudinal comparison of three groups: 80 new dementia spouse caregivers, 120 veteran caregivers, and 60 non-caregivers. Data comprised allostatic load markers and environmental and psychological stress measures. Cross-lagged analyses produced a statistically significant association between psychological stress and one allostatic load component (primary mediators). Psychological stress was a better predictor of primary mediators than environmental stress. Primary mediators rose with time for caregivers, but not for non-caregivers. A greater rise was evident for caregivers who had relinquished their role by the second year, although the level of psychological stress actually declined. Primary mediators are a key component of the relationship between allostatic load and prior stress. When allostatic load is treated as an outcome of stress, it is important to distinguish environmental and psychological stress.
Parkinsonian signs and functional disability in old age.	Little is known about the association between parkinsonian signs and functional disability. The authors examined the associations between four parkinsonian signs (gait, rigidity, bradykinesia, tremor) and the ability to perform physical and instrumental activities of daily living, in a large cohort of older Rush Memory and Aging Project participants who were free of dementia, Parkinson's disease, and antipsychotic drug use. In a series of logistic regression equations that controlled for age, sex, education, depressive symptoms, cognitive ability, chronic medical conditions, and psychotropic drug use, higher levels of parkinsonian signs were associated with higher levels of disability in performing both physical and instrumental activities of daily living.
Linear multilayer ICA generating hierarchical edge detectors.	In this letter, a new ICA algorithm, linear multilayer ICA (LMICA), is proposed. There are two phases in each layer of LMICA. One is the mapping phase, where a two-dimensional mapping is formed by moving more highly correlated (nonindependent) signals closer with the stochastic multidimensional scaling network. Another is the local-ICA phase, where each neighbor (namely, highly correlated) pair of signals in the mapping is separated by MaxKurt algorithm. Because in LMICA only a small number of highly correlated pairs have to be separated, it can extract edge detectors efficiently from natural scenes. We conducted numerical experiments and verified that LMICA generates hierarchical edge detectors from large-size natural scenes.
Psychiatric and psychosocial correlates of sexual risk behavior among adults with severe mental illness.	Persons with severe mental illness (SMI) are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. This study examined multivariate correlates of sexual risk among 152 adults with SMI receiving outpatient psychiatric treatment. Structured interviews assessed psychiatric, psychosocial, and behavioral risk factors. The majority was sexually active (65%), and many reported unprotected intercourse (73%), multiple partners (45%), and sex trading (21%) in the past year. Logistic regression models found that sexual behaviors were differentially associated with non-psychotic disorder, psychiatric symptoms, substance abuse, childhood sexual abuse, romantic partnership, and social support (all ps < .05). Findings underscore the need for targeted HIV prevention interventions that address psychiatric and psychosocial risk factors.
Depression and apathy affect functioning in community active subjects with questionable dementia and mild Alzheimer's disease.	The relationships between apathy, depression and functional impairment in questionable dementia (QD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are complex. This study aimed to explore the interactions between severity of apathy, depression and functional performance; and to investigate the effects of apathy alone, depression alone and coexistence of apathy and depression on the functional performance in subjects with QD and AD.
Growth differentiating factor-9 mutations may be associated with premature ovarian failure.	To determine whether perturbations of the growth differentiating factor-9 (GDF9) gene are associated with premature ovarian failure (POF).
An evaluation of power and type I error of single-nucleotide polymorphism transmission/disequilibrium-based statistical methods under different family structures, missing parental data, and population stratification.	Researchers conducting family-based association studies have a wide variety of transmission/disequilibrium (TD)-based methods to choose from, but few guidelines exist in the selection of a particular method to apply to available data. Using a simulation study design, we compared the power and type I error of eight popular TD-based methods under different family structures, frequencies of missing parental data, genetic models, and population stratifications. No method was uniformly most powerful under all conditions, but type I error was appropriate for nearly every test statistic under all conditions. Power varied widely across methods, with a 46.5% difference in power observed between the most powerful and the least powerful method when 50% of families consisted of an affected sib pair and one parent genotyped under an additive genetic model and a 35.2% difference when 50% of families consisted of a single affection-discordant sibling pair without parental genotypes available under an additive genetic model. Methods were generally robust to population stratification, although some slightly less so than others. The choice of a TD-based test statistic should be dependent on the predominant family structure ascertained, the frequency of missing parental genotypes, and the assumed genetic model.
Prepulse inhibition and P50 suppression are both deficient but not correlated in schizophrenia patients.	Inhibitory measures such as prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex (PPI) and event related potential P50 suppression have been widely reported to show deficits in schizophrenia patients. The relationship between PPI and P50 suppression in schizophrenia patients has remained unclear.
Mediating social anxiety and disordered eating: the role of expressive suppression.	Social anxiety and disordered eating frequently overlap, and evidence suggests that emotional suppression may be an important mediating factor. The present study examines the relationships among social anxiety, emotional suppression, and disordered eating in a non-clinical sample of 160 undergraduate women. Participants completed self-report measures for social anxiety, disordered eating, expressive suppression, depression, and negative affect. Results from mediation analyses indicate that the relationship between social anxiety and disordered eating is fully mediated by expressive suppression. Findings are consistent with a displacement theory in which unexpressed negative affect is shifted towards the body, thereby promoting symptoms of disordered eating.
Decisions under ambiguity and decisions under risk: correlations with executive functions and comparisons of two different gambling tasks with implicit and explicit rules.	We conducted two experiments with healthy subjects to investigate the possible relationships between Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) performance and executive functions as well as IGT performance and decision-making in a task with explicit rules, the Game of Dice Task (GDT). Results indicated that only the last trials of the IGT were correlated with executive functions and GDT performance. We suggest that the IGT taps into two mechanisms of decision-making: decisions under ambiguity in the first trials and decisions under risk in the latter trials. Results have impact on the interpretation of deficient IGT performance in patients with frontal lobe dysfunctions.
Effects of calcium on the erosive potential of acidic candies in saliva.	Theoretical calculations have shown that acidic candies may be potentially erosive upon consumption. However, little is known about the protective effect of adding calcium to potentially erosive candies and about the protective effects of saliva that cannot be fully accounted for by theoretical calculations. Therefore, the aims of this study were to (1) determine the erosive potential of acidic candies with and without calcium and (2) to determine differences between theoretically calculated erosive potential and actual erosive potential in saliva. Twenty healthy test persons sucked acidic candy with and without calcium while their whole saliva was collected into a closed system at different times: baseline, candy-stimulated, and post-stimulated. The erosive potential of the candy was evaluated from candy-induced changes in saliva degree of saturation with respect to hydroxyapatite (HAp) and directly by dissolution of HAp crystals in candy-stimulated saliva. The results showed that similar salivary stimulation was obtained with both candies. The modified candy released more than 13 mmol/l of calcium into saliva, resulting in a lower critical pH, and considerably lower erosive potential than the control (p < 0.001). Although a significant correlation was obtained between theoretical calculation of DS(HAp) and dissolution of HAp crystals (r(s) = 0.65; p < 0.001), many samples obtained by sucking modified candy showed no signs of HAp dissolution in spite of being undersaturated. We conclude that saturation levels and critical pH may not fully reflect when dental erosion is expected to occur in saliva and that calcium addition reduces the erosive potential of acidic candies.
Alcoholism and homicide with respect to the classification systems of Lesch and Cloninger.	Worldwide criminal statistics show a disproportionately high incidence of violent offences committed under the influence of alcohol. A psychopathological subtyping of alcohol dependence in offenders who committed homicide has mainly been related to impulsive and dissocial personalities up to now.
Coordinated memory replay in the visual cortex and hippocampus during sleep.	Sleep replay of awake experience in the cortex and hippocampus has been proposed to be involved in memory consolidation. However, whether temporally structured replay occurs in the cortex and whether the replay events in the two areas are related are unknown. Here we studied multicell spiking patterns in both the visual cortex and hippocampus during slow-wave sleep in rats. We found that spiking patterns not only in the cortex but also in the hippocampus were organized into frames, defined as periods of stepwise increase in neuronal population activity. The multicell firing sequences evoked by awake experience were replayed during these frames in both regions. Furthermore, replay events in the sensory cortex and hippocampus were coordinated to reflect the same experience. These results imply simultaneous reactivation of coherent memory traces in the cortex and hippocampus during sleep that may contribute to or reflect the result of the memory consolidation process.
Trauma and multi-impulsivity in the eating disorders.	Multiple impulsive behaviours are common in the eating disorders, and multi-impulsive patients appear to do more poorly in treatment. However, comparatively little is known about the origins of multi-impulsivity in such cases. This study addresses the links between reported childhood trauma and multi-impulsivity in the eating disorders, examining whether specific types of trauma are predictive of specific impulsive behaviours in this population.
Development of a measure to assess invalidating childhood environments in the eating disorders.	The role of childhood abuse is well recognised within the eating disorders. However, the impact of parental invalidation of the child's emotional needs has not been investigated. Such invalidation is potentially important because it appears to be associated with the difficulties in tolerating distress that are often seen in adults with eating disorders. This study aims to develop a measure of childhood invalidating environments (Invalidating Childhood Environments Scale; ICES). It also investigated the relationship between childhood experiences, levels of distress tolerance and eating pathology.
Risk for suicide attempts among adolescents who engage in non-suicidal self-injury.	The current study examined whether common indicators of suicide risk differ between adolescents engaging in non-suicidal self-injury (NSSI) who have and have not attempted suicide in an effort to enhance clinicians' ability to evaluate risk for suicide within this group. Data were collected from 540 high school students in the Midwest who completed the RADS, RFL-A, SIQ, and SHBQ as part of a larger adolescent risk project. Results suggest that adolescents engaging in NSSI who also attempt suicide can be differentiated from adolescents who only engage in NSSI on measures of suicidal ideation, reasons for living, and depression. Clinical implications of the findings are discussed.
Characteristics of recent suicide attempters with and without Borderline Personality Disorder.	The present research compared recent suicide attempters with and without a diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD). One hundred and eighty recent suicide attempters, recruited in the Emergency Department, participated in extensive research interviews. Results showed that suicide attempters with BPD displayed greater severity of overall psychopathology, depression, hopelessness, suicidal ideation, past suicide attempts, and had poorer social problem solving skills than those without a BPD diagnosis. No differences were found between the groups regarding the intent to die or lethality associated with the index suicide attempt. These findings highlight the seriousness of BPD and the risk that individuals diagnosed with this disorder will attempt suicide.
Correlates of suicide in building industry workers.	Suicide within the construction industry in Queensland, Australia was reportedly high in a recent Royal Commission report. The current study examined the incidence and causes of suicide in this industry using psychological autopsy and focus group investigations. A total of 64 male suicides occurred over the seven-year period, representing a crude suicide rate of 40.3 per 100,000, significantly greater than the working age Australian male rate. Young employees were at excessive risk with separation/divorce, relationship problems, and untreated psychiatric conditions the major contributors. Focus groups emphasized the importance of work/home interface factors and industry-specific factors preceding suicide.
Behavior and measures of respiration in rabbits differing in terms of movement activity in an open field.	Analysis of the behavior of 19 Chinchilla rabbits the first time they were placed in an open field allowed them to be divided into three groups differing in terms of investigative movement activity (passive rabbits accounted for 37%, active for 21%, and intermediate for 42%). On repeat placing in the open field, passive rabbits increased and active rabbits decreased their levels of activity. Correlations were found between the rabbits' behavior in the open field and the nature of their external respiration in the absence of movements in the comfort situation. Passive rabbits, as compared with intermediate and active animals, showed longer respiratory cycles, expirations, and breath holds in expiration. Animals with a predominance of right-hand turns in the open field showed shorter respiratory cycles and expirations than animals with a predominance of left-hand turns. These studies led to the conclusion that the characteristics of external respiration can serve as a predictive factor for the passive-defensive strategy of behavior in rabbits in emotionally negative situations.
Demographic, health, and behavioral factors associated with smoking in adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.	To identify demographic, health, and behavioral factors associated with smoking behavior in adults with diabetes.
Risk factors for psychiatric disturbance in children with intellectual disability.	Children with intellectual disability (ID) have a higher risk for psychiatric disturbance than their peers with normal intelligence, but research data on risk factors are insufficient and partially conflicting.
The relationship between cerebral T2 hyperintensity and fixation suppression of vestibulo-ocular reflex in elderly patients with dysequilibrium symptoms.	To evaluate the relationship between cerebral T2 hyperintensity on MRI and visual suppression of vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) in elderly patients with dysequilibrium symptoms.
Psychosocial associates of premenstrual symptoms and the moderating role of social support in a community sample.	This study aimed to explore the role of psychological factors such as perfectionism, need for approval, timidity, and social support from key individuals such as a woman's mother and partner in relation to premenstrual symptoms in a community (non-help-seeking) sample.
The role of depression and anxiety in onset of diabetes in a large population-based study.	Recent research has shown that depression may predict incident diabetes. The aims of the study are to investigate if symptoms of depression and anxiety precede the onset of diabetes or vice versa and to examine if mediating factors may explain such associations.
Clinical features and personality traits associated with psychological distress in systemic sclerosis patients.	The aim of the present study was to identify certain clinical parameters and personality characteristics associated with various forms of psychopathology in systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients.
The continuum model of obligatory exercise: a preliminary investigation.	The aim of this study was to carry out a preliminary study of the proposed Continuum Model of Obligatory Exercise, which states that obligatory exercise lies on a continuum--a continuum that is characterized not only by differences in severity, but by qualitative differences in the way the syndrome manifests, as the behaviour changes from mildly obsessive attitudes to exercise, to extremely disordered attitudes to exercise, which are accompanied by an eating disorder.
The relations among putative biorisk markers in schizotypal adolescents: minor physical anomalies, movement abnormalities, and salivary cortisol.	Evidence suggests that prenatal insult may play a role in the etiology of psychotic disorders. Minor physical anomalies (MPA) are an indicator of abnormal fetal development and are elevated in individuals at genetic and behavioral risk for psychosis. Yet, there has been little empirical research on the relationships between MPAs and other neurobiological risk indicators. We hypothesized that the frequency of MPAs (an external marker of prenatal central nervous system [CNS] disruption) would be associated with two other biomarkers suggestive of disruptions in fetal neurodevelopment: movement abnormalities (an indicator of striatal abnormalities) and heightened cortisol secretion (an indicator of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal [HPA]/hippocampal function).
Clinical correlates of clozapine prescription for schizophrenia in China.	Few studies have investigated the prescription patterns of clozapine in outpatients with schizophrenia in China. It is an important issue due to clozapine's high efficacy and potentially fatal side effect profile. This study examined the use of clozapine and its correlates in China.
Applications of transcriptional profiling in antibiotics discovery and development.	This chapter will review specific applications of microarray technology and related data analysis strategies in antibacterial research and development. We present examples of microarray applications spanning the entire antibiotics research and development pipeline, from target discovery, assay development, pharmacological evaluation, to compound safety studies. This review emphasizes the utility of microarrays for a systematic evaluation of novel chemistry as antibiotic agents. Transcriptional profiling has revolutionized the process of target elucidation and has the potential to offer substantial guidance in the identification of new targets. Microarrays will continue to be a workhorse of anti-infectives discovery programs ranging from efficacy assessments of antibiotics ('forward pharmacology') to drug safety evaluations ('toxicogenomics').
Scorpion sting in children in the Jerusalem area: a review of 54 cases.	Fifty-four children from the Jerusalem area were studied prospectively following scorpion envenoming. Their ages ranged from 11 months to 10 years. Severe symptoms (convulsions, brain oedema, shock, respiratory distress and myocarditis) were encountered in 19. Respiratory distress was the main feature in 17 of the children, in two cases owing to pulmonary oedema and in a third because of adult respiratory distress syndrome and myocarditis; mechanical ventilation was required in three cases. The severity of the symptoms and signs was not related to sex, age, weight, interval between scorpion sting and admission or to the type of offending scorpion; it was most likely dependent upon the susceptibility of the individual and/or the dose of venom injected by the scorpion. Intravenous antivenom quickly reversed the symptoms, and no side-effects were seen in the patients studied. The two patients who died had not received the antivenom intravenously. We recommend that specific antivenom should be given intravenously in all children who show significant symptoms. Furthermore, a longer period of observation is necessary following scorpion sting in this age group.
The role of domain-specific practice, handedness, and starting age in chess.	The respective roles of the environment and innate talent have been a recurrent question for research into expertise. The authors investigated markers of talent, environment, and critical period for the acquisition of expert performance in chess. Argentinian chess players (N = 104), ranging from weak amateurs to grandmasters, completed a questionnaire measuring variables including individual and group practice, starting age, and handedness. The study reaffirms the importance of practice for reaching high levels of performance, but it also indicates a large variability: The slower player needed 8 times as much practice to reach master level than the faster player. Additional results show a correlation between skill and starting age and indicate that players are more likely to be mixed-handed than individuals in the general population; however, there was no correlation between handedness and skill within the sample of chess players. Together, these results suggest that practice is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the acquisition of expertise, that some additional factors may differentiate chessplayers and nonchessplayers, and that starting age of practice is important.
Is psychosis in DSM-IV mania due to severity? The relevance of selected demographic and comorbid social-phobic features.	We tested whether factors other than episode severity contributed to psychosis in mania.
Altered omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid status in depressed post-myocardial infarction patients.	Lower levels of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 LCPUFAs) and increased inflammation have been associated with both depressive disorder and myocardial infarction (MI). The present study investigated whether patients who develop depression post-MI, have higher arachidonic acid/eicosapentanoic acid (AA/EPA) ratios than non-depressed post-MI patients and whether depressed post-MI patients have signs of increased inflammation as measured by C-reactive protein (CRP).
Impulsiveness in obsessive-compulsive disorder: results from a family study.	Although obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is usually conceptualized as an anxiety disorder some studies suggested it to be a deficit of impulse control. The purpose of this study was to assess impulsiveness in OCD families and compare it to control families.
Sex differences in cardiac vagal control in a depressed sample: implications for differential cardiovascular mortality.	Previous studies suggest depression is a risk factor for all cause mortality, with depressed men at greater risk than depressed women. Diminished cardiac vagal control (CVC) in depressed patients has also been found to increase risk of cardiac mortality. Previous research found that depressed women have higher CVC than depressed men suggesting CVC might be related to the discrepancy in mortality rates between depressed men and women. This finding, however, was in the context of a study with several methodological weaknesses. The current study sought to replicate the sex difference in CVC in a sample of 137 medically healthy and clinically diagnosed depressed patients. Main effects of sex and age significantly predicted CVC such that depressed women had greater CVC and CVC decreased with age in the cross-sectional sample. The results suggest greater CVC in depressed women might confer cardioprotective functions, which may partially explain the sex difference in mortality rates in the depressed population.
Does the emotional go/no-go task really measure behavioral inhibition? Convergence with measures on a non-emotional analog.	This study tested the convergence of behavioral inhibition measures across emotional and non-emotional versions of the same go/no-go task in 85 college students. The two tasks differed only in the stimuli used for trial cues (i.e., circles versus facial expressions). Moderate correlations (r=.51-.56) between commission errors across the emotional and non-emotional tasks support the construct validity of behavioral inhibition. Further, parametric manipulation of preceding context had comparable effects on performance on the two tasks. Responses were slower and more variable, commission errors were more numerous, and perceptual sensitivity was lower on the emotional than the non-emotional task. A bias for happy faces on the emotional task resulted in faster responses and more commission errors for happy than sad faces despite marginally greater sensitivity for the latter. These results suggest that the basic neuropsychological constructs of the original go/no-go task were preserved in the emotional adaptation.
Clastogenic effects of bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, and ethyl methanesulfonate on resting and proliferating human B- and T-lymphocytes.	The effects of bleomycin (BM), cyclophosphamide (CP), and ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) on the frequencies of chromosomal aberrations were tested in mitogen-stimulated highly purified human B- and T-lymphocytes. In unstimulated G0/G1 B- and T-lymphocytes the clastogen induction of chromosome fragments was investigated in prematurely condensed chromosomes (PCC) induced by cell fusion with xenogenic mitotic cells. BM, CP (with metabolic activation), and EMS induced a significant increase in chromosome aberrations in proliferating human B- and T-lymphocytes. There were no significant differences in the BM-induced aberration rates between the cell populations. CP and EMS induced more aberrations in T- than in B-lymphocytes. In the PCC tests, BM-exposed G0/G1 lymphocytes showed dose-dependent high yields of chromosome fragments. No significant differences between B- and T-lymphocytes were observed. CP and EMS induced no clear increase in fragments in either cell population.
Impaired myocardial perfusion reserve in experimental hypercholesterolemia is independent of myocardial neovascularization.	Our objective was to investigate the functional role of hypercholesterolemia-associated myocardial neovascularization in early atherosclerosis using the antiangiogenic thalidomide. Experimental atherosclerosis is characterized by myocardial neovascularization, associated with a decrease in myocardial perfusion response to challenge, coronary endothelial dysfunction, and high oxidative stress. However, the functional significance of these neovessels is not known. Three groups of pigs (n = 6 each) were studied after 12 wk of normal or hypercholesterolemic diet without (HC) or with thalidomide (HC + Thal). Myocardial perfusion and permeability were assessed at baseline and in response to cardiac challenge, using electron beam computed tomography, and coronary endothelial function was assessed using organ chambers. Myocardial samples were scanned ex vivo with a three-dimensional microscopic computed tomography scanner, and the spatial density of the myocardial microvessels was quantified. Growth factors and oxidative stress were measured in the myocardial tissue. As a results of these procedures, myocardial perfusion response to adenosine and dobutamine was blunted in both HC and HC + Thal pigs compared with normal pigs (P < 0.05, HC and HC + Thal vs. normal) as was the coronary endothelial function. Myocardial permeability response to adenosine was increased in both HC and HC + Thal pigs compared with normal pigs (P < 0.05, HC and HC + Thal vs. normal, and HC + Thal vs. HC). The microvascular density was increased in HC pigs compared with normal pigs but normalized in HC + Thal pigs (P < 0.001 HC vs. normal and HC + Thal). HC + Thal pigs showed decreased expression of Flk-1 and basic FGF but increased expression of VEGF compared with normal and HC pigs. Oxidative stress was increased in both HC and HC + Thal pigs compared with normal pigs. In conclusion, chronic administration of thalidomide attenuates myocardial neovascularization in experimental HC pigs without affecting myocardial perfusion response to stimulation. This suggests that the myocardial neovascularization may not contribute to the attenuated myocardial perfusion response in hypercholesterolemia.
Self-reported depression and cardiovascular risk factors in a community sample of women.	The authors examined data collected from a randomly selected, representative sample of 755 women (ages 23-97 years) from southeastern Australia. Self-report questionnaires were utilized to determine lifetime rates of depression and cardiovascular risk factors within the study sample. A lifetime history of depression (LHx) was reported by 145 women (19.20%). There were no associations between indices of weight, cholesterol levels, hypertension, inactivity, diabetes, and LHx. However, a history of smoking increased the odds of reporting an LHx, whereas women with self-reported angina were more than four times more likely to report an age-adjusted LHx.
Frequency of ICD-10 factitious disorder: survey of senior hospital consultants and physicians in private practice.	The authors surveyed physicians for frequency estimates of factitious disorder among their patients. Twenty-six physicians in independent practice and 83 senior hospital consultants in internal medicine, surgery, neurology, and dermatology participated. They completed a questionnaire including the estimated 1-year prevalence of factitious disorder among their patients. Frequency estimates averaged 1.3% (0.0001%-15%). The number of patients treated correlated negatively with frequency estimates. Dermatologists and neurologists gave the highest estimations. One-third of the physicians rated themselves as insufficiently informed. Frequency estimations did not differ by information level. The estimated frequency is substantial and comparable to earlier findings. Authors discuss clinical implications.
The relationship between exposure to alcohol advertising in stores, owning alcohol promotional items, and adolescent alcohol use.	This paper describes adolescents' exposure to alcohol advertising in stores and to alcohol-branded promotional items and their association with self-reported drinking.
Relationship between quality of life and child traffic fatalities.	Traffic injuries are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality of children around the world. Economic development and quality of life are main components of public health. Using canonical correlation analysis, this study examined the relationship between quality of life and traffic fatality among children. Data were collected from 19 countries by using World Health Organization and OECD statistics. The results indicated that there is a strong relationship between quality of life and children traffic fatality. Growing quality of life has become protective against child traffic accident mortality. Increasing in gross national income per capita, life expectancy at birth number of years, road motor vehicles per thousand population, and share of persons of working age (15-64 years) in employment also increases children traffic safety.
Amyloid beta peptide ratio 42/40 but not A beta 42 correlates with phospho-Tau in patients with low- and high-CSF A beta 40 load.	Neurochemical dementia diagnostics (NDD) can significantly improve the clinically based categorization of patients with early dementia disorders, and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid beta peptides ending at the amino acid position of 42 (A beta x-42 and A beta 1-42) are widely accepted biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, in subjects with constitutively high- or low-CSF concentrations of total A beta peptides (tA beta), the NDD interpretation might lead to erroneous conclusions as these biomarkers seem to correlate better with the total A beta load than with the pathological status of a given patient in such cases. In this multicenter study, we found significantly increased CSF concentrations of phosphorylated Tau (pTau181) and total Tau in the group of subjects with high CSF A beta x-40 concentrations and decreased A beta x-42/x-40 concentration ratio compared with the group of subjects with low CSF A beta x-40 and normal A beta ratio (p<0.001 in both cases). Furthermore, we observed significantly decreased A beta ratio (p<0.01) in the group of subjects with APOE epsilon 4 allele compared with the group of subjects without this allele. Surprisingly, patients with low-A beta x-40 and the decreased A beta ratio characterized with decreased pTau181 (p<0.05), and unaltered total Tau compared with the subjects with high A beta x-40 and the A beta ratio in the normal range. We conclude that the amyloid beta concentration ratio should replace the 'raw' concentrations of corresponding A beta peptides to improve reliability of the neurochemical dementia diagnosis.
Impaired action control in schizophrenia: the role of volitional saccade initiation.	Schizophrenia patients show prefrontal cortex dysfunctions of neurodevelopmental origin, but the cognitive implications of these dysfunctions are not yet understood. This study used experimental variations of oculomotor tasks to evaluate the relative roles of volitional action initiation and the inhibition of reflexive behavior. Thirty schizophrenia patients and 30 control participants performed standard prosaccades (SP), standard antisaccades (SA), delayed prosaccades (DP), and delayed antisaccades (DA). The delayed tasks allowed separating the inhibition of erroneous prosaccades and the initiation of volitional saccades, which coincide in the SA task. Arrow-cued (AC) saccades were used to evaluate initiation without any inhibitory component. Erroneous prosaccades were less frequent in the delayed tasks than in the SA task. Error rates were generally larger in schizophrenia patients than in control participants, but the deficit was smaller in the delayed tasks than in the SA task. Correct saccade latencies of schizophrenia patients were normal in the SP task, but not on conditions of volitional saccade initiation (all other tasks). Volitional saccade latencies were positively correlated with error rates in the schizophrenia group. These results confirm that schizophrenia patients have a specific deficit in initiating volitional action, which may also contribute to the increased error rates.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-delta polymorphisms are associated with physical performance and plasma lipids: the HERITAGE Family Study.	We tested the hypothesis that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-delta (PPARdelta) gene polymorphisms are associated with cardiorespiratory fitness and plasma lipid responses to endurance training. Associations between the PPARdelta exon 4 +15 C/T and exon 7 +65 A/G polymorphisms and maximal exercise capacity and plasma lipid responses to 20 wk of endurance training were investigated in healthy white (n = 477) and black (n = 264) subjects. In black subjects, the exon 4 +15 C/C homozygotes showed a smaller training-induced increase in maximal oxygen consumption (P = 0.028) than the C/T and T/T genotypes. Similarly, a lower training response in maximal power output was observed in the exon 4 +15 C/C homozygotes (P = 0.005) compared with the heterozygotes and the T/T homozygotes in black subjects, and a similar trend was evident in white subjects (P = 0.087). In white subjects, baseline apolipoprotein A-1 (Apo A-1)levels were higher in the exon 4 +15 C/C (P = 0.011) and exon 7 +65 G/G (P = 0.05) genotypes compared with those in the other genotypes. In white subjects, exon 4 +15 C/C (P = 0.0025) and exon 7 +65 G/G (P = 0.011) genotypes showed significantly greater increases in plasma high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels with endurance training than in the other genotypes, whereas in black subjects the exon 4 +15 CC homozygotes tended to increase (P = 0.057) their Apo A-1 levels more than the T allele carriers. DNA sequence variation in the PPARdelta locus is a potential modifier of changes in cardiorespiratory fitness and plasma HDL-C in healthy individuals in response to regular exercise.
Functional antibodies elicited by two heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines in the Finnish Otitis Media Vaccine Trial.	In the Finnish Otitis Media Vaccine Trial, the now-licensed pneumococcal conjugate vaccine containing polysaccharides conjugated to protein CRM(197) (PncCRM) and the experimental pneumococcal polysaccharide-meningococcal outer membrane protein complex conjugate vaccine (PncOMPC), showed similar efficacy profiles against acute otitis media despite different antibody concentrations in sera. We now report the opsonophagocytic activities (OPA) in these sera. OPA, antibody concentration, and avidity for serotypes 6B, 19F, and 23F were determined in sera of infants who received either pneumococcal conjugate (PCV) or control vaccine at 2, 4, and 6 months of age and either the homologous or pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at 12 months of age. OPA varied by vaccine and serotype. The majority of PCV recipients had positive OPA after the fourth dose, while OPA was undetectable in the control group. Coinciding with the efficacy data, the concentration of antibodies required for 50% killing was low for 6B and high for 19F for both PCVs. Contradictory to the efficacy data, PncOMPC induced lower functional capacity to 23F than PncCRM. OPA correlated with antibody concentration, while avidity and functional capacity of antibodies showed no correlation. The OPA data provide valuable additional information for serotype-specific differences in protection and when evaluating serotype-specific immunogenicity and should thus be considered when defining serological correlates of protection.
Large scale genotype-phenotype correlation analysis based on phylogenetic trees.	We provide two methods for identifying changes in genotype that are correlated with changes in a phenotype implied by phylogenetic trees. The first method, VENN, works when the number of branches over which the change occurred are modest. VENN looks for genetic changes that are completely penetrant with phenotype changes on a tree. The second method, CCTSWEEP, allows for a partial matching between changes in phenotypes and genotypes and provides a score for each change using Maddison's concentrated changes test. The mutations that are highly correlated with phenotypic change can be ranked by score. We use these methods to find SNPs correlated with resistance to Bacillus anthracis in inbred mouse strains. Our findings are consistent with the current biological literature, and also suggest potential novel candidate genes.
The relationship between vigorous physical activity and juvenile delinquency: a mediating role for self-esteem?	Many policy-related reviews of the potential social value of sport and physical activity list the prevention of juvenile delinquency. We examined the relationships among vigorous physical activity, self-esteem, and delinquent behavior among adolescents in a large cross-sectional survey of Ontario adolescents. Data are based on questionnaires from 3,796 students (range 11-20 years) derived from the 2005 Ontario Student Drug Use Survey. Negative binominal regression methods were used to estimate both additive and interactive models predicting delinquent behavior. Vigorous physical activity was positively associated with delinquent behavior; however, this pattern of association was observed only among male adolescents. There was no evidence of a mediating role for self-esteem. Our findings suggest that physical activity is not the solution for reducing juvenile delinquency.
Pessimism and physical functioning in older women: influence of self-efficacy.	The purpose of the present study was to examine the nature of the relationships among dispositional optimism/pessimism, self-efficacy, and physical function in a cross-sectional sample of older women (N = 249, M age = 69 years). Initial bivariate analyses indicated that both pessimism and self-efficacy, but not optimism, were significantly correlated with objectively measured physical function. Subsequent analyses using covariance modeling with the full-information maximum likelihood estimator indicated that pessimism was no longer correlated with function when controlling for self-efficacy. That is, consistent with a social cognitive perspective, controlling for self-efficacy attenuated the relationship between pessimism and function. Our findings provide support for using a social cognitive perspective to understanding dispositional and modifiable influences on declines in function associated with aging.
Reliability of the Burke-Fahn-Marsden scale in a multicenter trial for dystonia.	The multicenter SPIDY trial (pallidal stimulation for generalized, idiopathic dystonia) recently reported a marked improvement in dystonia which was assessed by the Burke-Fahn-Marsden (BFM) scale. However, the reliability of this tool has rarely been evaluated and its use in a multicenter study has never been assessed prospectively.
Automatic correspondence of tags and genes (ACTG): a tool for the analysis of SAGE, MPSS and SBS data.	A critical step in any SAGE, MPSS and SBS data analysis is tag-to-gene assignment. Current available tools are limited by a tag-by-tag annotation process and/or do not provide the dataset that is used to produce a complete tag-to-gene mapping. We developed ACTG, a web-based application that allows a large-scale tag-to-gene mapping using several reference datasets. ACTG can annotate SAGE (14 or 21 bp), MPSS (17 or 20 bp) and SBS (16 bp) data for both human and mouse organisms.
The role of (15)N CSA and CSA/dipole cross-correlation in (15)N relaxation in solid proteins.	The influence of the (15)N CSA on (15)N longitudinal relaxation is investigated for an amide group in solid proteins in powder form under MAS. This contribution is determined to be typically 20-33% of the overall longitudinal relaxation rate, at 11.74 and 16.45 T, respectively. The improved treatment is used to analyze the internal dynamics in the protein Crh, in the frame of a motional model of diffusion in a cone, using the explicit average sum approach. Significant variations with respect to the determined dynamics parameters are observed when properly accounting for the contribution of (15)N CSA fluctuations. In general, the fit of experimental data including CSA led to the determination of diffusion times (tau(w)) which are longer than when considering only an (15)N-(1)H dipolar relaxation mechanism. CSA-Dipole cross-correlation is shown to play little or no role in protonated solids, in direct contrast to the liquid state case.
Is the intrinsic disorder of proteins the cause of the scale-free architecture of protein-protein interaction networks?	In protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks certain topological properties appear to be recurrent: network maps are considered scale-free. It is possible that this topology is reflected in the protein structure. In this paper, we investigate the role of protein disorder in the network topology. We find that the disorder of a protein (or of its neighbors) is independent of its number of PPIs. This result suggests that protein disorder does not play a role in the scale-free architecture of protein networks.
Associations between schizotypal personality traits and the facilitation and inhibition of the speed of contextually cued responses.	This study measured schizotypal personality traits in a sample of 33 healthy participants using the Oxford-Liverpool Inventory of Feelings and Experiences. These traits were correlated with measures of inhibition and facilitation of response times (RTs) within a cued letter-comparison task. It was expected that scores on a measure of positive schizotypy, reflecting unrealistically distorted perceptions and beliefs, would be negatively associated with inhibition of RTs to targets that were unexpected in the context of the preceding letter cue. No specific predictions were made for the facilitation of RTs to targets expected in the context of the cues. The predicted negative association for positive schizotypy and inhibition of RTs was confirmed. There was no significant association between positive schizotypy and facilitation of RTs; however, there was an unpredicted finding that facilitation of RTs was increased in individuals with higher levels of disorganized schizotypy. The findings for positive schizotypy were consistent with Hemsley's model, in that high positive schizotypy results from a weakening of contextually elicited inhibitory processes, and is associated with altered functioning of a monitoring system. The normal functioning of the monitoring system is to generate mismatch signals that interrupt information processing when a contextually unexpected stimulus occurs.
Characteristics of smokers with a psychotic disorder and implications for smoking interventions.	Despite high rates of smoking among people with psychotic disorders, and the associated health and financial burden, few studies have investigated the characteristics of this group of smokers. This paper reports data from 298 smokers with an ICD-10 psychotic disorder residing in the community (56.7% with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder), including an examination of their demographic and clinical characteristics, smoking behaviours, severity of nicotine dependence, stage of change, and reasons for smoking and for quitting. Standardized self-report instruments were used, in conjunction with structured interviews, as part of the first phase of a randomized controlled trial. On average, participants smoked 30 cigarettes per day, commenced smoking daily at about 18 years of age (5 years before illness onset), and had made 2-3 quit attempts in their lifetime. Higher levels of nicotine dependence and concurrent hazardous use of alcohol or cannabis were associated with a younger age at smoking initiation. The present sample was also more likely to report stress reduction, stimulation and addiction as reasons for smoking, compared to a general sample of smokers. Males, precontemplators and participants with concurrent hazardous substance use cited fewer reasons for quitting smoking. These and other subgroup differences in smoking characteristics are used to illustrate potential implications for the nature and timing of smoking interventions among people with a psychotic disorder.
Birth order effects on autism symptom domains.	Autism is predominantly genetically determined. Evidence supports familiality of the main sets of behavioral characteristics that define the syndrome of autism; however, possible non-genetic effects have also been suggested. The present study compared levels of autism symptom domains, as measured by the Autism Diagnostic Interview, and useful phrase speech scores between 106 pairs of first- and second-born siblings from multiply affected families. In addition, the intercorrelations between the measures were compared between siblings. The overall mean repetitive behavior total score was significantly higher (worse) in first-born than in second-born siblings. In contrast, first-born siblings had significantly lower (better) useful phrase speech than their younger siblings. Autism social and non-verbal communication scores were significantly correlated in first- and in second-born siblings. However, there was a significant difference in the coefficients between first- and second-born siblings. Performance on the non-verbal communication domain was also significantly and positively correlated with useful phrase speech score in both first- and second-born siblings. It is unclear at this time whether these results are of biologic origin. Nevertheless, the findings suggest that genetic studies in autism using specific levels of familial autism traits as phenotypes should take into account their intercorrelations and birth order effects embedded in the instrument.
Frequency and predictors of self-reported prospective memory complaints in individuals infected with HIV.	Failures of episodic retrospective memory (RetM) are among the most frequently reported cognitive complaints endorsed by individuals living with HIV infection. The present study sought to examine the nature, frequency, and determinants of self-reported complaints of prospective memory (ProM) in HIV, which is a singly dissociable and ecologically relevant aspect of episodic memory involving the execution of future intentions. Seventy-five HIV seropositive individuals and 60 seronegative volunteers were administered the Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PMRQ) as part of extensive neuropsychological, psychiatric, and medical research assessments. The HIV sample endorsed more frequent ProM complaints in daily life than the seronegative group, particularly on items requiring self-initiated cue detection and retrieval. Within both study groups, ProM complaints were significantly more frequent than RetM complaints. Although the HIV sample was impaired relative to the seronegative group on an objective, performance-based ProM test, self-reported ProM complaints did not correspond to actual ProM abilities. However, greater frequency of self-reported ProM complaints was moderately associated with increased fatigue, as well as with symptoms of anxiety and depression. Consistent with prior research on RetM in HIV, results indicate that affective distress contributes to a metamemory deficit for HIV-associated ProM impairment, which highlights the potential importance of assessing both self-reported and performance-based ProM in clinical and research neuroAIDS evaluations.
Illicit drug use, depression and their association with highly active antiretroviral therapy in HIV-positive women.	We examined the interaction of illicit drug use and depressive symptoms, and how they affect the subsequent likelihood of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) use among women with HIV/AIDS.
Early and late auditory sensory gating: moderating influences from schizotypal personality, tobacco smoking status, and acute smoking.	Early (P50) and late (P200) auditory sensory gating were assessed in low and high schizotypal personality groups using Raine's Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire. We also assessed the impact of smoking as it relates to low and high schizotypal personalities. Low and high schizoptypal personality groups were divided into subgroups of participants who either smoked or did not smoke tobacco cigarettes. Participants were 39 (18 men) right-handed undergraduates. Using a paired-tone paradigm (40 pairs, 70 dB, 1000 Hz), smokers were tested while abstaining from smoking, and 5 min after smoking. Non-smokers were tested similarly without smoking. Midline and hemispheric sites were evaluated at frontal (F3/Fz/F4), fronto-central (FC3/FCz/FC4), central (C3/Cz/C4), centro-parietal (CP3/CPz/CP4), and parietal (P3/Pz/P4) regions. P50 sensory gating was better at midline sites than left/right hemispheric sites, whereas there was no difference in activation with respect to location for P200 sensory gating. Cz had better P50 sensory gating than other midline regions, whereas Fz, FCz and Cz had better P200 sensory gating than CPz and Pz. Hemispheric comparisons were made. At the central region for non-smokers, high schizotypys showed poorer P50 sensory gating than low schizotypys. Among low schizotypys, smokers showed poorer P50 sensory gating than non-smokers at the fronto-central and central regions smokers showed better P200 sensory gating than non-smokers at the central region. Smoking had no acute impact on either early (P50) or late (P200) sensory gating. Our data support the notion that early sensory gating and late sensory gating represent different sensory gating mechanisms with respect to low and high schizotypy personalities. Individual differences in early and late sensory gating need further investigation.
Employing community data to investigate social and structural dimensions of urban neighborhoods: an early childhood education example.	The present study sought to define neighborhood context by examining relationships among data from city-level administrative databases at the level of the census block group. The present neighborhood investigation included 1,801 block groups comprising a large, northeastern metropolitan area. Common factor analyses and multistage, hierarchical cluster analyses yielded two dimensions (i.e., Social Stress, Structural Danger) and two typologies (i.e., Racial Composition, Property Structure Composition) of neighborhood context. Simultaneous multiple regression analyses revealed small but statistically significant associations between neighborhood variables and academic outcomes for public school kindergarten children.
Brain structures mediating cardiovascular arousal and interoceptive awareness.	Different emotions are accompanied by different bodily states and it is unclear which brain structures are involved in both, the cerebral representation of the bodily change and the representation of its perception. Structures connecting bodily signals and interoceptive awareness could trigger, in a feedforward manner, behavioral responses appropriate to maintain a desired state of the cardiovascular system. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study aimed at identifying brain structures that are mutually activated during interoceptive awareness of heartbeats and during cardiovascular arousal. Additionally, we searched for brain regions connecting interoception with feelings. During the interoceptive task (directing attention towards heartbeats in relation to an exteroceptive task) the thalamus, the insula, the medial frontal/dorsal cingulate and the inferior frontal gyrus, as well as the somatomotor cortex were activated. The conjunction of the interoceptive awareness of heartbeats and cardiovascular arousal revealed structures presumably connecting both conditions, i.e. the right thalamus, insula, somatomotor cortex, and the dorsal cingulate as well as medial frontal gyrus. Furthermore, the degree of interoceptive awareness predicted the degree of activation of both the insula and the medial frontal/dorsal cingulate gyrus. Negative feelings correlated with the BOLD response of the interoceptive awareness condition in the dorsal cingulate gyrus extending into the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex. We provide evidence that the insula, the dorsal cingulate gyrus, and the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex are specifically involved in processing cardiac sensations. The dorsal cingulate gyrus and the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex presumably represent the neural substrates of experiencing negative emotions.
Ethnic identity predicts experimental pain sensitivity in African Americans and Hispanics.	The aim of this study was to examine experimental pain sensitivity in three ethnic groups, African Americans, Hispanic Americans and non-Hispanic White Americans, and to determine whether ethnic identity is differentially associated with pain sensitivity across ethnic groups. Participants included sixty-three African American, sixty-one Hispanic and eighty-two non-Hispanic white participants who were assessed using three experimental pain measures: thermal, cold-pressor and ischemic. Participants' ethnic identity was assessed using the Multi-group Ethnic Identity Measure (MEIM). Ethnic group differences in pain responses were observed, with African American and Hispanic subjects showing lower cold and heat pain tolerances than non-Hispanic White Americans. In addition, pain range (i.e. tolerance-threshold) was computed for heat, cold and ischemic pain, and the two minority groups again had lower values compared to non-Hispanic White Americans. Ethnic identity was associated with pain range only for African American and Hispanic groups. Statistically controlling for ethnic identity rendered some of the group differences in pain range non-significant. These findings indicate that ethnic identity is associated with pain sensitivity in ethnic minority groups, and may partially mediate group differences in pain perception. The results of the present investigation provide evidence of ethnic group differences in responses to experimental pain across multiple noxious stimuli, with both minority groups exhibiting greater sensitivity to laboratory evoked pain compared to non-Hispanic White Americans.
Effects of acculturation on tests of attention and information processing in an ethnically diverse group.	The objective of this study was to examine differences between fluent English-speaking ethnically diverse (ED) individuals (from Hispanic, Asian and Middle-Eastern descent) and monolingual English-speaking Anglo-Americans (MEAA) on commonly used tests of information processing and attention. A sample of 123 (84 ED and 39 MEAA) healthy individuals participated. The results revealed that the MEAA group outperformed the ED group on Trail Making Test Part B, Stroop B and C, and Auditory Consonant Trigrams (18s delay condition). Additionally, a host of acculturation variables such as score on a formal acculturation scale, amount of time educated outside of the U.S., and the amount of English spoken when growing up correlated with these various neuropsychological tests. The findings from this study highlight the importance of taking acculturation into account for fluent English-speaking ED individuals when administering and interpreting neuropsychological tests.
Verbal episodic memory declines prior to diagnosis in Huntington's disease.	Previous studies of verbal episodic memory in pre-diagnostic Huntington's disease (HD) have yielded mixed results; some evidence suggests that memory decline is evident prior to the onset of pronounced neurological signs of HD, whereas other data indicate that memory function remains normal throughout the pre-diagnostic period. This study examines verbal episodic memory in a sample of CAG expanded individuals who have not yet been clinically diagnosed, and who represent a wide range of points along the continuum from health to disease. The Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R) was administered to 479 participants (428 with the HD CAG expansion and 51 without), and performance was compared to neurobiological indices of disease progression, including a DNA-based estimate of proximity to clinical diagnosis, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of striatal volume, and neurologist ratings of motor signs. Lower HVLT-R scores were associated with closer proximity to clinical diagnosis and smaller striatal volumes; these relationships were found even in groups with no neurological signs of HD. The CAG expanded groups, including those with only minimal neurological signs, had significantly lower HVLT-R scores than the control group, and performance was worse in sub-groups that had more neurological signs consistent with HD. These findings indicate that verbal episodic memory is affected in early pre-diagnostic HD and may decline as striatal volumes decrease and individuals approach the motor diagnostic threshold.
Correlation of median forearm conduction velocity with carpal tunnel syndrome severity.	Median nerve entrapment neuropathy at the wrist can be accompanied by slowed motor conduction within the forearm. Existing studies conflict regarding a correlation between the severity of the entrapment neuropathy in carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) and slowing of median motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) in the forearm. Here, it was asked if there is a correlation between markers of CTS severity and median forearm MNCV, and if there is an explanation for the preceding conflicting results.
Regional distribution of acoustic-based lung vibration as a function of mechanical ventilation mode.	There are several ventilator modes that are used for maintenance mechanical ventilation but no conclusive evidence that one mode of ventilation is better than another. Vibration response imaging is a novel bedside imaging technique that displays vibration energy of lung sounds generated during the respiratory cycle as a real-time structural and functional image of the respiration process. In this study, we objectively evaluated the differences in regional lung vibration during different modes of mechanical ventilation by means of this new technology.
Common and specific genetic influences on EEG power bands delta, theta, alpha, and beta.	It is difficult to study the genetic basis of psychological function/dysfunction due to its etiological complexity. Instead, we studied a biological marker, EEG power, which is associated with various psychological phenotypes and is closer to gene function. Previous studies have consistently demonstrated high heritability of EEG band power, but less is known about how common or specific genes influence each power band. For 519 adolescent twin pairs, spectral powers were calculated for delta, theta, alpha, and beta bands at bilateral occipital and frontal sites. All four bands were entered into a multivariate genetic model, with occipital and frontal sites modelled separately. Variance was decomposed into additive (A) and dominant (D) genetic factors, and common (C) and unique (E) environmental factors. Band heritabilities were higher at occipital (0.75-0.86) than frontal sites (0.46-0.80). Both common and specific genetic factors influenced the bands, with common genetic and specific genetic factors having more influence in the occipital and frontal regions, respectively. Non-additive genetic effects on beta power and a common environment effect on delta, theta, and alpha powers were observed in the frontal region.
Can small changes in cardiovascular risk factors predict large future reductions in coronary heart disease mortality in Ireland?	To examine the potential for decreasing cardiovascular risk factors in order to reduce coronary heart disease deaths by 2010 in Ireland.
Real-time PCR detection of multiple lamivudine-resistant mutations with displacing probes in a single tube.	Detection of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) is essential to clinical diagnosis and treatment.
Associations between iris characteristics and personality in adulthood.	Variable and person-oriented analyses were used to explore the associations between personality and three previously untested general iris characteristics: crypts, pigment dots and contraction furrows. Personality data, as measured by the NEO PI-R and ratings of iris characteristics from 428 undergraduate students were collected. Crypts were significantly associated with five approach-related behaviors, i.e., feelings, tendermindedness, warmth, trust and positive emotions, whereas furrows were associated with impulsiveness. These findings suggest that because Pax6 induces tissue deficiencies in both the iris and the left anterior cingulate cortex, Pax6 may influence the extent people engage in approach-related behaviors. The results from using a person-oriented analysis suggested that people with different iris configurations tend to develop along different personality trajectories. Future longitudinal studies, twin-studies and genetic association studies, may benefit from collecting iris data and testing candidate genes for crypts and furrows.
Antenatal thyroid correlates of postpartum depression.	We previously found significantly higher T3-resin uptake and nearly significantly lower total thyroxine concentrations at 38 weeks of pregnancy in women with higher postpartum depression ratings. This study further examined the relationship between thyroid status during late pregnancy and antenatal and postpartum depression scores. Thyroid measures were obtained at 32-35, 36, and 37 weeks of pregnancy in 31 women with normal range thyroid hormone levels. Subjects rated their mood at these antenatal time points and every other week between postpartum weeks 2 and 24 on the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale and the Beck Depression Inventory. Mean antenatal thyroxine concentrations and free thyroxine indices correlated significantly and negatively with mean depression scores during each of three postpartum time periods (postpartum weeks 2-6, 14-18, 20-24). Women with total and free thyroxine concentrations that were, respectively, <10.1 microg/dl and <1.06 ng/dl at all three antenatal time points had significantly higher mean depression scores during all postpartum time periods. The fraction of subjects with pregravid major or minor depression history that was in the low antenatal thyroid group was significantly higher than the fraction of subjects with negative history (5/6 vs. 7/25). Women with antenatal total and free thyroxine concentrations in the lower euthyroid range may be at greater risk of developing postpartum depressive symptoms. Study of the relationships with antenatal thyroid status may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of perinatal mood disturbances.
NT-proBNP correlates with right heart haemodynamic parameters and volumes in patients with atrial septal defects.	To investigate the role of N-terminal pro-BNP (NT-proBNP) for the estimation of right heart failure and pulmonary pressure in patients with atrial septal defects (ASD) before and after percutaneous defect closure.
Language development at ten months. Predictive of language outcome and school achievement ten years later?	Language development was followed from infancy to primary school age in order to examine the predictive significance for later language and scholastic outcome.
Leptin and C-reactive protein levels correlate during minor infection in children.	Leptin, a pleiotropic hormone, has been suggested to be part of an acute-phase response during an inflammatory stimulus. Its correlation with other acute-phase reactants during minor infection in children has not been investigated.
Loudness pattern-based speech quality evaluation using bayesian modeling and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods.	This work presents a speech quality evaluation method which is based on Moore and Glasberg's loudness model and Bayesian modeling. In the proposed method, the differences between the loudness patterns of the original and processed speech signals are employed as the observed features for representing speech quality, a Bayesian learning model is exploited as the cognitive model which maps the features into quality scores, and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods are used for the Bayesian computation. The performance of the proposed method was demonstrated through comparisons with the state-of-the-art speech quality evaluation standard, ITU-T P.862, using seven ITU subjective quality databases.
Juvenile Behçet's disease: highlighting neuropsychiatric manifestations and putative genetic mechanisms.	Behçet's disease is a multisystem inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology. We report a 12-year-old boy who presented with features of raised intracranial tension and seizures and was found to have cerebral venous sinus thrombosis on evaluation. Behçet's disease was diagnosed based on occurrence of recurrent oral and genital ulcers in the past and characteristic skin lesions subsequently. He also showed significant personality changes including multiple attempts of deliberate self-harm. Pedigree analysis revealed that six family members spanning three generations had recurrent oral ulcers and three members satisfied the criteria for Behçet's disease. Clinical features varied amongst the family members and there was suggestion of genetic anticipation. The index case was carrying HLA-B37/B7 and the mother was carrying B37/B40. Our report sheds light on the genetics of Behçet's disease. Unusual features were early age of onset, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, significant personality changes and strong family history with phenotypic heterogeneity.
Influence of glucose in the dialysate on the activity of erythrocyte-glutathione-peroxidase and blood selenium concentration in hemodialyzed patients.	The aim of the study was to show the influence of glucose in the dialysate on the intensity of oxidative stress, activity of glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) and concentration of selenium in patients undergoing regular hemodialysis.
Can submaximal exercise variables predict peak exercise performance in women with chronic fatigue syndrome?	This study aimed at examining whether physiological exercise variables at the submaximal level, defined as 75% of the age-predicted target heart rate, are able to predict peak exercise performance in women with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) (n=222). Subjects performed a bicycle ergometric test against a graded increase in workload until exhaustion with continuous monitoring of electrocardiographic and ventilatory variables. Oxygen uptake at the submaximal level (VO2SUBMAX) correlated strongly with peak oxygen uptake (VO2PEAK) (r=0.70). For the prediction of VO2PEAK, linear regression analysis determined the line of best fit as: VO2PEAK=0.95xVO2SUBMAX+372.3. Using this equation, the mean error in the prediction was 14.6+/-11.2% (range 0.1-63.7%). It is concluded that the prediction of VO2PEAK based on VO2SUBMAX might be useful for analyzing group differences or treatment effects but not for individual (clinical) purposes.
On the dynamic nature of response criterion in recognition memory: effects of base rate, awareness, and feedback.	The authors examined whether participants can shift their criterion for recognition decisions in response to the probability that an item was previously studied. Participants in 3 experiments were given recognition tests in which the probability that an item was studied was correlated with its location during the test. Results from all 3 experiments indicated that participants' response criteria were sensitive to the probability that an item was previously studied and that shifts in criterion were robust. In addition, awareness of the bases for criterion shifts and feedback on performance were key factors contributing to the observed shifts in decision criteria. These data suggest that decision processes can operate in a dynamic fashion, shifting from item to item.
The effect of working memory capacity limitations on the intuitive assessment of correlation: amplification, attenuation, or both?	This article challenges Yaakov Kareev's (1995a, 2000) argument regarding the positive bias of intuitive correlation estimates due to working memory capacity limitations and its adaptive value. The authors show that, under narrow window theory's primacy effect assumption, there is a considerable between-individual variability of the effects of capacity limitations on the intuitive assessment of correlation, in terms of both sign and magnitude: Limited capacity acts as an amplifier for some individuals and as a silencer for others. Furthermore, the average amount of attenuation exceeds the average amount of amplification, and the more so, the smaller the capacity. Implications regarding the applicability and contribution of the bias notion in this context and the evaluation of the adaptive value of capacity limitations are discussed.
Statistics in review Part I: graphics, data summary and linear models.	Statistics and biomedical literature have historically had an uneasy alliance. A critical approach to the application of statistics is developed. Initially, we survey graphical data display and trace the historical development of the "testing" statistical paradigm, and the contributions of A R Fisher and J Neyman and E Pearson. The nuances of data summary and testing are illustrated by way of population versus sample estimation. The importance of the normality assumption is stressed, and the recurring contrast of parametric (t test) versus non-parametric (Mann-Whitney) approaches to summary statistics is discussed. The t test is found to be adequate. Effect measures are outlined, and we demonstrate the utility of the unpaired t test for binary data analysis. The theory of linear models is introduced, and the underlying assumptions of the standard ordinary least squares regression are presented. The implications of transformations, in particular log transformation, are detailed, and we conclude with an overview of the principles of model selection.
Quantification of unidirectional nonlinear associations between multidimensional signals.	In this paper, we present a rigorous, general definition of the nonlinear association index, known as h2. Proving equivalence between different definitions we show that the index measures the best dynamic range of any nonlinear map between signals. We present also a construction for removing the influence of one signal from another, providing, thus, the basis of an independent component analysis. Our definition applies to arbitrary multidimensional vector-valued signals and depends on an aperture function. In this way, the bin-related classic definition of h2 can be generalized. We show that upon choosing suitable aperture functions the bin-related intuitive definition can be deduced. Special attention is dedicated to the direction of the association index that in general is taken in only one sense. We show that for linearly coupled signals high associations are always bidirectional. As a consequence, high asymmetric nonlinear associations are indicators of nonlinear relations, possibly critical, between the dynamic systems underlying the measured signals. We give a simple simulated example to illustrate this property. As a potential clinical application, we show that unidirectional associations between electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG) recorded from patient with pharmacologically intractable epilepsy can be used to study the cortical involvement in the generation of motor seizures.
Pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary function testing in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.	Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is commonly seen in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). We sought to examine the relationship between pulmonary function tests (PFTs), including the percentage of predicted FVC (FVC%), percentage of predicted total lung capacity, percentage of predicted diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (Dlco%), the composite physiologic index (CPI), and PH. The ability of FVC%, Dlco%, and FVC%/Dlco% ratio to predict underlying PH was assessed.
Respiratory polygraphy with actigraphy in the diagnosis of sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome.	To determine the utility and reliability of a respiratory polygraphy (RP) device with actigraphy (Apnoescreen II; Erich Jaeger GMBH & CoKg; Wuerzburg, Germany) in the diagnosis of sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (SAHS).
Comparison of Dynamic Expiratory CT With Bronchoscopy for Diagnosing Airway Malacia: A Pilot Evaluation.	To assess the accuracy of dynamic expiratory CT for detecting airway malacia using bronchoscopy as the diagnostic "gold standard."
A randomized, placebo-controlled trial of bronchodilators for bronchoscopy in patients with COPD.	In contrast to asthma, the indication for bronchodilators prior to bronchoscopy in patients with COPD has not been properly investigated. We therefore performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine whether use of a short-acting bronchodilator provides a protective effect in patients with COPD undergoing bronchoscopy.
Elevated platelet microparticle levels in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: relationship to p-selectin and antithrombotic therapy.	Platelet microparticles (PMPs), are procoagulant membrane vesicles that are derived from activated platelets, the levels of which are elevated in patients with hypertension, coronary artery disease (CAD), diabetes, and stroke, all of which are conditions that lead to (and are associated with) atrial fibrillation (AF). We hypothesized the following: (1) PMP levels are elevated in patients with AF compared to levels in both healthy control subjects (ie, patients without cardiovascular diseases who are in sinus rhythm) and disease control subjects (ie, patients with hypertension, CAD, diabetes or stroke, but who are in sinus rhythm); (2) PMP levels correlate with levels of soluble P-selectin (sP-selectin) [a marker of platelet activation]; and (3) PMP levels are related to the underlying factors in patients with AF that contribute to the overall risk of stroke secondary to AF.
The impact of new-onset atrial fibrillation on in-hospital mortality following cardiac surgery.	The impact of new-onset postoperative atrial fibrillation (NAF) on in-hospital mortality (IHM) following cardiac surgery is unknown.
Correlation between optical coherence tomography images and histology of pigskin.	Noninvasive imaging techniques such as optical coherence tomography (OCT) are being widely used for early diagnostics of a variety of pathologies. Traditional tissue preparation for histological evaluation alters the dimensions of histological images such that differences between the dimensions of histologic and OCT images can be as great as 2.5-fold. This discrepancy complicates quantitative interpretation of OCT images. Here we used a steel ring sewn to the pigskin to avoid tissue deformation due to excision and fixation and used a surgical suture as a fixed tissue marker. With these techniques, we achieved good correlation between OCT and histological images with differences of less than 10%. The resulting method significantly enhances the diagnostic capabilities of the OCT technique.
Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity mediated by plasma obtained before secondary dengue virus infections: potential involvement in early control of viral replication.	Preexisting dengue virus (DV)-specific antibodies from prior heterologous DV infection may have several effects in secondary DV infection. These antibodies may mediate protective effects by means of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), in which virus-specific antibodies bind to the surface of heterologous DV-infected cells and mediate natural killer cell lysis. In the present study, we examined the ability of plasma obtained before secondary DV infection to induce ADCC of DV-infected cells.
Genotypes of the mannan-binding lectin gene and susceptibility to visceral leishmaniasis and clinical complications.	Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is almost always lethal if not treated, but most infections with the causative agents are clinically silent. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL), an opsonin, is a candidate molecule for modifying progression to VL because it may enhance infection with intracellular pathogens. Mutations in the MBL2 gene decrease levels of MBL and may protect against development of VL. This case-control study examines genotypes of MBL2 and levels of MBL in individuals presenting with different outcomes of infection with Leishmania chagasi.
Carboxyl-glucuronidation of mitiglinide by human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.	Mitiglinide (MGN) is a new potassium channel antagonist for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. In the present study, a potential metabolic pathway of MGN, via carboxyl-linked glucuronic acid conjugation, was found. MGN carboxyl-glucuronide was isolated from a reaction mixture consisting of MGN and human liver microsomes fortified with UDP-glucuronic acid (UDPGA) and identified by a hydrolysis reaction with beta-glucuronidase and HPLC-MS/MS. Kinetic analysis indicated that MGN from four species had the highest affinity for the rabbit liver microsomal enzyme (K(m)=0.202 mM) and the lowest affinity for the dog liver microsomal enzyme (K(m)=1.164 mM). The metabolic activity (V(max)/K(m)) of MGN to the carboxyl-glucuronidation was in the following order: rabbit>dog>rat>human. With the assessment of MGN glucuronide formation across a panel of recombinant UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms (UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7), only UGT1A3 and UGT2B7 exhibited high MGN glucuronosyltransferase activity. The K(m) values of MGN glucuronidation in recombinant UGT1A3 and UGT2B7 microsomes were close to those in human liver microsomes. The formation of MGN glucuronidation by human liver microsomes was effectively inhibited by quercetin (substrate for UGT1A3) and diclofenac (substrate for UGT2B7), respectively. The MGN glucuronidation activities in 15 human liver microsomes were significantly correlated with quercetin (r(2)=0.806) and diclofenac glucuronidation activities (r(2)=0.704), respectively. These results demonstrate that UGT1A3 and UGT2B7 are catalytic enzymes in MGN carboxyl-glucuronidation in human liver.
The significance of Pin1 in the development of Alzheimer's disease.	Pin1 protein, a peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase plays an important regulatory role in neuronal function. Recent studies indicate that Pin1 may promote the dephosphorylation of tau and restore its ability to bind to and polymerize microtubles. Previous studies on postmortem human brains showed that Pin1 is down-regulated in advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains compared to age-matched non-demented controls. Because AD is a slowly progressive disease with a preclinical period that can last years, the abundance and regulatory function of Pin1 may vary on the course of the disease. In order to evaluate the potential contribution of Pin1 to AD pathogenesis, levels of mRNA, protein and isomerase activity of Pin1 and phosphorylated tau from postmortem brains of 10 persons with mild-cognitive impairment (MCI), 10 with AD and 10 age-matched no cognitive impairment (NCI) were measured. The relationship between Pin1 and phosphorylated tau as well as clinical and cognitive data were analyzed. The results indicated that Pin1 activity in MCI and AD were significantly higher than in NCI. Phosphorylated tau in MCI and AD was also higher than in NCI group. The positive correlation trend in MCI and the robust correlation in AD between Pin1 activity and phosphorylated tau implies that increasing phosphorylated tau during AD pathogenesis may induce the compensatory activation/up-regulation of Pin1, while the inverse correlation between Pin1 activity and phosphorylated tau in NCI group implies that decreased Pin1 may play a role in the initial accumulation of phosphorylated tau in AD pathogenesis.
Detection of amyloid-beta oligomers in human cerebrospinal fluid by flow cytometry and fluorescence resonance energy transfer.	The neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been linked recently to non-fibrillar forms of neurotoxic amyloid-beta (Abeta) oligomers of which high levels are observed in the brain of AD patients. This suggests that Abeta oligomers play a key role in the early events of AD, underlining their potential for the early diagnosis of the disease. We have developed an extremely sensitive assay for the detection of oligomeric and fibrillar structures of Abeta that is based on multiparametric analysis of data obtained by flow cytometry and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (Fret). The assay readily detects Abeta oligomers in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as verified by dot blot of the isolated particles. By measuring 174 CSF samples of non-demented control patients with various neurological disorders a high reliability and reproducibility of the method could be demonstrated.
Degree of coherence for vectorial electromagnetic fields as the distance between correlation matrices.	We assess the degree of coherence of vectorial electromagnetic fields in the space-frequency domain as the distance between the cross-spectral density matrix and the identity matrix representing completely incoherent light. This definition is compared with previous approaches. It is shown that this distance provides an upper bound for the degree of coherence and visibility for any pair of scalar waves obtained by linear combinations of the original fields. This same approach emerges when applying a previous definition of global coherence to a Young interferometer.
How accurately can we estimate energetic costs in a marine top predator, the king penguin?	King penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) are one of the greatest consumers of marine resources. However, while their influence on the marine ecosystem is likely to be significant, only an accurate knowledge of their energy demands will indicate their true food requirements. Energy consumption has been estimated for many marine species using the heart rate-rate of oxygen consumption (f(H) - V(O2)) technique, and the technique has been applied successfully to answer eco-physiological questions. However, previous studies on the energetics of king penguins, based on developing or applying this technique, have raised a number of issues about the degree of validity of the technique for this species. These include the predictive validity of the present f(H) - V(O2) equations across different seasons and individuals and during different modes of locomotion. In many cases, these issues also apply to other species for which the f(H) - V(O2) technique has been applied. In the present study, the accuracy of three prediction equations for king penguins was investigated based on validity studies and on estimates of V(O2) from published, field f(H) data. The major conclusions from the present study are: (1) in contrast to that for walking, the f(H) - V(O2) relationship for swimming king penguins is not affected by body mass; (2) prediction equation (1), log(V(O2) = -0.279 + 1.24log(f(H) + 0.0237t - 0.0157log(f(H)t, derived in a previous study, is the most suitable equation presently available for estimating V(O2) in king penguins for all locomotory and nutritional states. A number of possible problems associated with producing an f(H) - V(O2) relationship are discussed in the present study. Finally, a statistical method to include easy-to-measure morphometric characteristics, which may improve the accuracy of f(H) - V(O2) prediction equations, is explained.
Nuts and bolts of percentiles]	Decisions regarding diagnosis and treatment of medical conditions are often based on reference values, and these are frequently based on percentiles. We have studied the impact of statistical methods and software on estimates of percentiles.
Thymidine phosphorylase mRNA level predicts survival of patients with advanced oropharyngeal cancer.	The present study suggested that a high level of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) gene expression is significantly associated with favorable prognosis of patients treated with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy. Further studies consisting of large series should be performed to confirm our present results.
Effects of noise on identification and serial recall of nonsense syllables in older and younger adults.	The present experiment investigated the hypothesis that age-related declines in cognitive functioning are partly due to a decrease in peripheral sensory functioning. In particular, it was suggested that some of the decline in serial recall for verbal material might be due to even small amounts of degradation due to noise or hearing loss. Older and younger individuals identified and recalled nonsense syllables in order at a number of different speech-to-noise ratios. Performance on the identification task was significantly correlated with performance on a subsequent serial recall task. However, this was restricted to the case in which the stimuli were presented in a substantial amount of noise. These data show that even small changes in sensory processing can lead to real and measurable declines in cognitive functioning as measured by a serial recall task.
Evaluation of a disease-specific self-efficacy instrument in adolescents with sickle cell disease and its relationship to adjustment.	The psychometric properties of a disease-specific instrument used to assess self-efficacy in adolescents with sickle cell disease, the Sickle Cell Self-Efficacy Scale, were evaluated in a sample of 131 adolescents ranging from 11 to 19 years of age. This nine-item instrument was associated with a one-item, general self-efficacy question and an item of self-control. After controlling for age, gender, highest grade of education completed, and the number of individuals in the household, high levels of self-efficacy were related to fewer physical, psychological, and total symptoms. Using the stress process framework to examine the relationship between self-efficacy and self-reported symptoms in adolescents may lead to the initiation of effective intervention programs capable of increasing levels of self-efficacy in adolescents. These interventions could lead to better outcomes for adolescents with sickle cell disease. Additional longitudinal investigations are needed to evaluate the ability of self-efficacy to predict adolescent adjustment over time.
Peripheral joint cooling increases spinal reflex excitability and serum norepinephrine.	To understand better how reflex excitability is altered with peripheral joint cooling, the authors set out to determine whether a cryotherapy treatment applied to the ankle would increase plasma norepinephrine and result in a heightened H:M ratio. Twenty-two adults were admitted to the hospital on two occasions. During one admission, subjects had ice applied to their ankle and in the other admission a bag of room temperature marbles was applied. Soleus Hmax, Mmax, H:M ratio, and plasma norepinephrine were recorded at baseline as well as immediately, 10, and 20 min post application, and 10 and 20 min post removal. Norepinephrine was greater immediately and 10 min post ice application (p < .05). Hmax, Mmax, and the H:M ratio were greater at 10 and 20 min post application and at 10 and 20 min post removal (p < .05). Elevated plasma norepinephrine suggests that peripheral cooling results in release of neurotransmitters from the central nervous system. Joint cooling has both peripheral and central effects.
Correlative study of the cognitive impairment, regional cerebral blood flow, and electroencephalogram abnormalities in children with Down's syndrome.	The aim of this study was to investigate possible correlations of the cognitive impairment with abnormalities of regional cerebral blood flow and electroencephalogram in children with (Down's Syndrome) DS. Nine patients with DS were evaluated by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in combination with clinical findings, electroencephalography (EEG), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In cases with IQs below 40, there were one or more findings of abnormal EEG/MRI and brain perfusion SPECT. In 6 cases (66.7%) EEG findings were normal, but 3 (33.3%) had abnormal EEG findings. Perfusion abnormalities were most pronounced in the fronto-parieto-temporal region in the form of hypoperfusion (n = 5) and in the right hemisphere (n = 5) than the left hemisphere (n = 1). These findings suggest that the children with DS had varying levels of structural, perfusion, and electrophysiological abnormalities in the brain and these abnormalities were reflected by measurable alterations of the cognitive functions.
The ultrastructure of lymphocytes in schizophrenia.	Replicated abnormalities in schizophrenia include decreased cellular immunity. The aim of the study was to verify whether there are some abnormalities in the ultrastructure of lymphocytes in drug-free schizophrenic patients.
Discrete and continuous joint coupling relationships in uninjured recreational runners.	Abnormal joint coupling is thought to be related to overuse injuries in runners. However, researchers do not yet know what constitutes normal joint coupling during running, which makes abnormal coupling difficult to define.
Serum cholesterol concentration and distress in the initial days after childbirth.	The link between mood disorders and cholesterol is characterized by some contradictory data. In particular, it is not clear whether health factors are responsible for lowered cholesterol levels and mood swings. The present study tests the association between serum cholesterol level and psychological distress in women in two different post-delivery hospital settings: rooming-in (RI) and no rooming-in (no-RI). On day 3 after childbirth, 147 RI and 209 no-RI women completed the Kellner Symptom Questionnaire (SQ), which evaluates anxiety, depression, somatic symptoms and hostility. Plasma cholesterol concentration was measured on the same day. There was a significant negative correlation between cholesterol and depressive symptoms in no-RI women, but not in the RI group. However, this correlation is characterized by an extremely small effect size (-0.15). The findings of this study cast further doubt on the hypothesis of a possible association between cholesterol and depression in the general population and in mothers who have just given birth.
Accuracy and intensity of posed emotional expressions in unmedicated schizophrenia patients: vocal and facial channels.	This study investigated the ability of schizophrenia patients to volitionally display various emotional expressions. Accuracy and intensity of facial and vocal emotional expression were rated in 26 unmedicated male schizophrenia patients and 20 non-patient male controls while posing emotional facial and vocal expressions. Results indicate that schizophrenia patients, compared to non-patient controls, had deficits in their ability to portray some, but not all, emotions. Accuracy and intensity of posed facial and vocal expressions were inversely correlated with negative symptoms in the patient group. We conclude that observable flattened affect in schizophrenia during posed expression is not evident across all emotions. Furthermore, substantial disruption in the ability to portray posed emotions may be largely driven by the presence of negative symptoms.
Screening for subclinical ketosis in dairy cattle by Fourier transform infrared spectrometry.	Subclinical ketosis is a metabolic disorder in high-producing dairy cattle that can be detected by ketone bodies in milk: acetone (Ac), acetoacetate (AcAc), and beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHBA). Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometry is to a growing extent used for determination of milk constituents in milk recording, but as yet there is no calibration for ketone bodies available. The objective of this study was therefore to build a calibration for the MilkoScan FT6000 (FOSS Analytical A/S, Hillerød, Denmark) for Ac, AcAc, and BHBA and to evaluate the FTIR predictions for detection of subclinical ketosis. From 217 herds, 1,080 milk samples were taken from fresh multiparous dairy cows. The Ac, AcAc, and BHBA concentrations were determined by chemical methods using segmented flow analysis. Because of its low concentration, AcAc seemed to be hardly detectable and was therefore not considered further. The correlation between the chemical method results of Ac and BHBA was 0.82, indicating that both ketone bodies were elevated in milk during subclinical ketosis. In wk 1 postpartum, however, most samples with a high Ac concentration did not have a high BHBA concentration, whereas after wk 5 postpartum most samples with a high BHBA concentration did not have a high Ac concentration. For Ac and BHBA, the correlation coefficients between the FTIR predictions and the chemical results were around 0.80 with standard error of cross validation values of 0.184 and 0.064 mM for Ac and BHBA, respectively. Using thresholds of 0.15 mM for Ac and 0.10 mM for BHBA, high values for Ac or BHBA were detected with a sensitivity of 69 to 70%, a specificity of 95%, with 25 to 27% false positives and 6 to 7% false negatives. It is argued that FTIR predictions for Ac and BHBA are valuable for screening cows on subclinical ketosis, especially when used in combination with other indicators, and can serve in the evaluation of the herd health status with respect to subclinical ketosis.
Genetic parameters for milk urea nitrogen in relation to milk production traits.	The aim of this study was to estimate genetic parameters for test-day milk urea nitrogen (MUN) and its relationships with milk production traits. Three test-day morning milk samples were collected from 1,953 Holstein-Friesian heifers located on 398 commercial herds in The Netherlands. Each sample was analyzed for somatic cell count, net energy concentration, MUN, and the percentage of fat, protein, and lactose. Genetic parameters were estimated using an animal model with covariates for days in milk and age at first calving, fixed effects for season of calving and effect of test or proven bull, and random effects for herd-test day, animal, permanent environment, and error. Coefficient of variation for MUN was 33%. Estimated heritability for MUN was 0.14. Phenotypic correlation of MUN with each of the milk production traits was low. The genetic correlation was close to zero for MUN and lactose percentage (-0.09); was moderately positive for MUN and net energy concentration of milk (0.19), fat yield (0.41), protein yield (0.38), lactose yield (0.22), and milk yield (0.24), and percentage of fat (0.18), and percentage of protein (0.27); and was high for MUN and somatic cell score (0.85). Herd-test day explained 58% of the variation in MUN, which suggests that management adjustments at herd-level can reduce MUN. This study shows that it is possible to influence MUN by herd practice and by genetic selection.
Health care industry trends: converting data to competitive advantage.	Learn the latest health care industry trends, and, more importantly, how you can use them to get ahead in the marketplace.
Constructing personality scales under the assumptions of an ideal point response process: toward increasing the flexibility of personality measures.	The main aim of this article is to explicate why a transition to ideal point methods of scale construction is needed to advance the field of personality assessment. The study empirically demonstrated the substantive benefits of ideal point methodology as compared with the dominance framework underlying traditional methods of scale construction. Specifically, using a large, heterogeneous pool of order items, the authors constructed scales using traditional classical test theory, dominance item response theory (IRT), and ideal point IRT methods. The merits of each method were examined in terms of item pool utilization, model-data fit, measurement precision, and construct and criterion-related validity. Results show that adoption of the ideal point approach provided a more flexible platform for creating future personality measures, and this transition did not adversely affect the validity of personality test scores.
Addiction Severity Index Recent and Lifetime summary indexes based on nonparametric item response theory methods.	Baseline Addiction Severity Index (5th ed.; ASI-5) data of 2,142 substance abuse patients were analyzed with two nonparametric item response theory (NIRT) methods: Mokken scaling and conditional covariance techniques. Nine reliable and dimensionally homogeneous Recent Problem indexes emerged in the ASI-5's seven areas, including two each in the Employment/Support and Family/Social Relationships areas. Lifetime Problem indexes were derived for five of the areas--Medical, Drug, Alcohol, Legal, and Psychiatric--but not for the Employment/Support and Family/Social Relationships areas. Correlational analyses conducted on a subsample of 586 patients revealed the indexes for the seven areas to be largely independent. At least moderate correlations were obtained between the Recent and Lifetime indexes within each area where both existed. Concurrent validity analyses conducted on this same subsample found meaningful relationships, except for the Employment/Support area. NIRT-based methods were able to add to findings produced previously by classical psychometric methods and appear to offer promise for the psychometric analysis of complex, mixed-format instruments such as the ASI-5.
Factors predicting the use of complementary and alternative therapies among cancer patients in Iran.	This study was carried out to examine the factors that predicting the use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) among cancer patients in Tehran, Iran. Predicting factors included were patients' demographic characteristics, type of cancer, the knowledge of diagnosis, time since diagnosis, satisfaction with their care physician, fear of recurrence and measures of anxiety, depression and global quality of life. In total, 625 cancer patients were studied, and 35% (n=219) reported that they used or were using CAM. The most commonly used CAM was prayer and spiritual healing (n=178, 75.7% of responses). The results of logistic regression analysis indicated that the use of CAM among cancer patients was associated with the fear of cancer recurrence (OR=2.03, 95% CI=1.45-2.85, P<0.0001) and dissatisfaction with their care physician (OR=1.98, 95% CI=1.36-2.89, P<0.0001). The results indicate that apart from the prayer and spiritual healing, the use of the other common methods of CAM among Iranian cancer patients is unpopular. However, the findings suggest that the use of CAM is more common among cancer patients who suffer from fears, uncertainties and dissatisfaction, and these might be a marker of greater psychological distress in users as compared with non-users.
Special considerations for haematology patients in relation to end-of-life care: Australian findings.	Recent hematology clinical guidelines recommend that palliative care specialists should have central roles in hemato-oncology teams. However, the available research evidence indicates there are presently significant obstacles to the integration of palliative care in hematology. The following discussion presents findings from an Australian study designed to address the problems associated with lack of referral of hematology patients to the palliative system through the development of a best-practice model for end-of-life care for these diagnostic groups. The preliminary step in the development of such a model is to document the factors that denote the special characteristics of the end-of-life stage of hematological conditions and their treatments. This article presents the list of special considerations from a nursing perspective, including issues associated with the high-tech nature of treatments, the speed of change to a terminal event, the need for blood products and possibility of catastrophic bleeds, the therapeutic optimism based on a myriad of treatment options and the clinical indices of the terminal trajectory. The nursing insights provide an important foundation for building a practical, patient-centred model for terminal care in hematology.
Hospital stay frequency and duration of patients with advanced cancer diseases - differences between the most frequent tumour diagnoses: a secondary data analysis.	The differences in the number and duration of hospital stays of cancer patients in an advanced stage of disease were to be examined with regard to the most frequent cancer diagnoses. Therefore, routinely compiled data of the largest health insurance company in the State of Lower Saxony, Germany, were analysed. Patients with lung, colon, breast and prostate cancer were included, who died in the year of 2004. The parameters of frequency (case numbers) and duration (days) of inpatient hospital stays were examined for the 5-year period of 2000-2004, with special focus on the years 2003/2004. 355 patients were included. On average, the number of inpatient hospital stays amounted to 2.7 cases and 29 days per patient. 87.5% of the hospital stays within the study period occurred in 2003/2004. The patient groups differed significantly both in the average number of cases and in the duration of hospital stays (Kruskal-Wallis test: P<0001), whereby patients with lung cancer underwent inpatient hospital treatment most frequently (3.3 times), and for the longest periods (35 days). This study shows that patients in an advanced stage of lung cancer are a particular important target group for reducing hospitalization at the end of life. They should receive special attention when structures of palliative care are extended.
Crossmodal effect with rubber hand illusion and gamma-band activity.	The integration of multimodal stimuli has been regarded as important for the promotion of adaptive behavior. Although recent work has identified brain areas that respond to multimodal stimuli, the temporal features are not clear yet. Earlier event-related potential studies revealed crossmodal attention effects, but did not focus on mechanisms underlying crossmodal integration. Here, electroencephalography (EEG) activity in the gamma band was considered as a correlate of multimodal integration. Participants localized a tactile stimulus on their fingers while seeing visual stimuli on rubber hands with the same posture as their hands. EEG analyses using wavelet transform suggested that interelectrode phase synchrony in the gamma-band range (40-50 Hz) was related to behavioral indices of the intermodal illusion under consideration. The findings suggest a role of high-frequency oscillations in the integrative processing of stimuli across modalities.
Relationship between occlusal findings and orofacial myofunctional status in primary and mixed dentition. Part II: Prevalence of orofacial dysfunctions.	The aim of this study was to provide basic data on the prevalence of orofacial dysfunctions in primary and early mixed dentition and to examine occlusal relationships in their functional context, and to analyze the need for and potential of orthodontic prevention and early treatment.
Association between orthopedic and dental findings: what level of evidence is available?	The aim of this systematic review was to provide comprehensive access to and an analysis of the specialist literature published through December 2005 describing a correlation between orthopedic (leg-length inequality, pelvis obliquity, column diseases and head posture) and dental findings (occlusion, mandibular position, temporomandibular joints, masticatory muscles).
Dentofacial parameters explaining variability in retroclination of the maxillary central incisors.	The interrelation between retroclination of the maxillary central incisors and dentofacial parameters is a controversial subject in the literature. In contrast to comparisons between malocclusion and control groups, the objective of the present study was to identify skeletal, dentoalveolar or perioral (soft-tissue) factors which primarily determine how severely retroclination is individually manifested.
Relationships between visual and tactile features and biophysical parameters in human facial skin.	Skin properties, such as colour, hydration and texture, can be studied on a qualitative basis by a clinical assessment or on a quantitative basis using techniques that measure biophysical properties of the skin. The aim of this study was to explore the links between facial skin features and a range of skin biophysical parameters using multivariate methods.
Nodular ground-glass opacity at thin-section CT: histologic correlation and evaluation of change at follow-up.	The popularization of computed tomography (CT) in clinical practice and the introduction of mass screening for early lung cancer with the use of CT have increased the frequency of findings of subtle nodules or nodular ground-glass opacity. Nodular ground-glass opacity may be observed in malignancies such as bronchioloalveolar carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, as well as in their putative precursors, such as atypical adenomatous hyperplasia. Nodular ground-glass opacity also may be seen in the presence of benign conditions, including focal interstitial fibrosis, inflammation, and hemorrhage. The persistence of nodular ground-glass opacity over time may be strongly suggestive of an early-stage malignancy, especially if the lesion increases in size or includes a solid component that increases in its extent. Persistent nodular ground-glass opacity also may remain stable in size but show increased attenuation. The more extensive the solid portions of the lesion, the higher the probability of malignancy and the poorer the prognosis. An awareness of the clinical setting, in addition to familiarity with the thin-section CT features of nodular ground-glass opacity at initial and follow-up imaging over several months, can help identify malignancy and achieve an accurate diagnosis. A meticulous evaluation of those CT features, and their correlation with specific histopathologic characteristics, also may enable a more accurate prognosis in cases of neoplastic disease.
Attenuation estimation using spectral cross-correlation.	Estimation of the local attenuation coefficient in soft tissue is important both for clinical diagnosis and for further analysis of ultrasound B-mode images. However, it is difficult to extract spectral properties in a small region of interest from noisy backscattered ultrasound radio frequency (RF) signals. Diffraction effects due to transducer beam focal properties also have to be corrected for accurate estimation of the attenuation coefficient. In this paper, we propose a new attenuation estimation method using spectral cross-correlation between consecutive power spectra obtained from the backscattered RF signals at different depths. Since the spectral cross-correlation method estimates the spectral shift by comparing the entire power spectra, it is more robust and stable to the spectral noise artifacts in the backscattered RF signals. A diffraction compensation technique using a reference phantom with a known attenuation coefficient value is also presented. Local attenuation coefficient estimates obtained using spectral cross-correlation are within 2.3% of the actual value with small estimation variances, as demonstrated in the simulation results.
Is cerebral palsy associated with birth defects other than cerebral defects?	The objective of the study was to identify the origin (s) of the association between cerebral palsy (CP) and birth defects in the absence of cerebral birth defects. Data from the 1980 to 1994 Western Australian birth cohorts (355 659 neonatal survivors) were linked to the Cerebral Palsy Register (941 links) and the Birth Defects Registry (17070 links). Associations between CP (congenital or acquired) and birth defects (cerebral or exclusively non-cerebral) were estimated. The origin of the association between non-cerebral defects and acquired CP was investigated with an observational study, and the origin of the association between non-cerebral defects and congenital CP was investigated with a blinded case-control study of births with non-cerebral defects with or without CP. With non-cerebral defects, the odds ratio for CP was 4.8 (95% CI 3.1-7.4) if acquired and 4.7 (3.9-5.7) if congenital. For acquired CP, the association arose primarily as a result of cardiac defects. For congenital CP, the association arose partly from ascertainment bias and partly from defects known to be associated with cerebral defects (but not identified in these data). However, a significant portion remained unexplained. The presence of non-cerebral defects should heighten clinical alertness to the possibility of CP and of cerebral birth defects.
Microbubbles in the pulmonary artery generated during experimental hepatic radiofrequency ablation is correlated with increased pulmonary arterial pressure.	Microbubbles in hepatic veins during hepatic radiofrequency (RF) ablation is a well-known observation. In this experimental study, we examined the association between microbubbles in the pulmonary artery and alterations in mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP) during hepatic RF ablation with a perfusion electrode system.
Rapid total body fat measurement by magnetic resonance imaging: quantification and topography]	To evaluate a rapid and comprehensive MR protocol based on a T1-weighted sequence in conjunction with a rolling table platform for the quantification of total body fat.
The reliability and validity of the Test of Adaptive Behavior in Schizophrenia (TABS).	Performance-based tests of functional capacity are important to utilize in schizophrenia where global measures may underestimate community functioning in the context of impoverished environments and disincentives to return to work. The Test of Adaptive Behavior in Schizophrenia (TABS) is a performance-based measure of adaptive functioning designed to address limitations of other available measures including limited assessment of the ability to initiate and of the ability to identify problems that occur in the course of performing functional activities. The TABS and a variety of symptom, functional outcome, and cognitive measures were administered to 264 outpatients with schizophrenia/schizoaffective disorders at an initial assessment. At 3 months, 110 subjects received a follow-up assessment. Results indicated that the TABS had very good test-retest reliability (0.80) and inter-item consistency (0.84). Moreover, TABS scores were moderately to strongly correlated with other measures of functional outcome, negative symptoms and neuropsychological test scores (convergent validity). Measures of positive symptoms were not found to be related to TABS performance (discriminate validity). The data provide preliminary evidence for the reliability and validity of the TABS. Further studies of the psychometric properties of the TABS including those examining the sensitivity of the TABS to treatments with different pharmacological agents or psychosocial treatments are encouraged.
Exhaustion and endocrine functioning in clinical burnout: an in-depth study using the experience sampling method.	The current study investigates the relationship between HPA-axis functioning and burnout symptoms by employing an electronic symptom diary. This diary method circumvents the retrospection bias induced by symptom questionnaires and allows to study relationships within-in addition to between-subjects. Forty two clinically burned-out participants completed the exhaustion subscale of the Maslach burnout inventory and kept an electronic diary for 2 weeks to assess momentary exhaustion and daily recovery through sleep. On 3 consecutive weekdays within the diary period, saliva was sampled to determine the cortisol awakening response (CAR), levels of dehydroepiandrosterone-sulphate (DHEAS) on the first 2 weekdays, and to conduct the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) on the third weekday. We found significant relationships between endocrine values and general momentary symptom severity as assessed with the diary, but not with the retrospective questionnaire-assessed burnout symptoms. Simultaneous assessments of endocrine values and burnout symptoms assessed with the diary after awakening rendered significant associations between persons, and a trend within persons. More severe burnout symptoms were consistently associated with a lower level and smaller increase of CAR, higher DHEAS levels, smaller cortisol/DHEAS ratios and a stronger suppression after DST. Burnout symptoms were significantly related to endocrine functioning in clinical burnout under the best possible conditions of symptom measurement. This adds support to the view that severity of burnout symptoms is associated with HPA-axis functioning.
Does neck pain determine the outcome of adolescent headache?	The aim of the study was to examine the influence of concomitant neck pain (NP) on the outcome of headache (HA) frequency and HA type in adolescence. A population-based sample of 13-year-olds with or without HA (n = 228) was followed for 3 years. NP was evaluated at the beginning of the follow-up on the basis of recorded muscle tenderness and self-reported symptoms. During the 3 years of follow-up, changes in both HA type and frequency were common. NP interfering with daily activities at the age of 13 years predicted change from non-frequent (0-1/month) to monthly HA (>1/month), especially in boys (P = 0.03 boys, P = 0.06 girls). The use of physiotherapy predicted persistence of monthly HA in boys (P = 0.004). The changes in HA type were not predictable by NP. In conclusion, the risk of worsening HA in adolescence is more probable if the HA is associated with NP interfering with daily activities.
I like to do it, I'm able, and I know I am: longitudinal couplings between domain-specific achievement, self-concept, and interest.	The longitudinal development of the intraindividual coupling between academic achievement, interest, and self-concept of ability (SCA) was analyzed in a sample of approximately 1,000 children between grades 1 and 12 (ages 6-17). Across all calculated indexes, the average level of coupling was positive. Individuals generally felt competent and interested in domains where they achieve well, and were interested in domains where they perceive their personal strengths. The degree of coupling was the highest between interest and SCA and the lowest between interest and achievement. For all indexes, evidence for an increase in coupling across time was found. Female gender was related to a lower level of coupling. There was evidence for a positive effect of conscientiousness on the amount of coupling.
Origins of individual differences in imitation: links with language, pretend play, and socially insightful behavior in two-year-old twins.	Imitation, vocabulary, pretend play, and socially insightful behavior were investigated in 5,206 same- and opposite-sex 2-year-old twin pairs in the United Kingdom. Individual differences in imitative ability were due to modest heritability (30%), while environmental factors shared between twins (42%) and unique to each twin (28%) also made significant contributions to the variance. Imitation correlated significantly, although modestly, with vocabulary, pretend play, and socially insightful behavior, and the strongest relationship was with vocabulary. A model that represented the covariance between the variables as being due to correlated latent genetic and environmental factors fitted the data well, with shared environmental factors influencing most of the covariance. Parents who encourage imitation may also tend to foster the development of language, pretence, and socially insightful behavior.
Are there long-term effects of early child care?	Effects of early child care on children's functioning from 4(1/2) years through the end of 6th grade (M age=12.0 years) were examined in the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development (n=1,364). The results indicated that although parenting was a stronger and more consistent predictor of children's development than early child-care experience, higher quality care predicted higher vocabulary scores and more exposure to center care predicted more teacher-reported externalizing problems. Discussion focuses on mechanisms responsible for these effects, the potential collective consequences of small child-care effects, and the importance of the ongoing follow-up at age 15.
Comorbid depression and health-related quality of life in patients with coronary artery disease.	This article reviews recent studies relating to the impact of depression and its treatment on the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
Cortisol awakening response is elevated in acute coronary syndrome patients with type-D personality.	Type-D or "distressed" personality and depression following admission for acute coronary syndrome (ACS) have been associated with poor clinical outcome. The biological pathways underpinning this relationship may include disruption of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. We therefore assessed cortisol output in patients who had recently suffered from ACS.
Heart rate variability and markers of inflammation and coagulation in depressed patients with coronary heart disease.	Depression is associated with an increased risk for cardiac morbidity and mortality in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). Cardiac autonomic nervous system (ANS) dysregulation, proinflammatory processes, and procoagulant processes have been suggested as possible explanations.
Posttraumatic symptoms were worst among quake victims with injuries following the Chi-chi quake in Taiwan.	The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and psychological health status among earthquake victims 1 year after the quake.
Cannabis abuse and risk for psychosis in a prodromal sample.	The goal of the present study was to examine the rate of cannabis use among participants in the Cognitive Assessment and Risk Evaluation (CARE) Program, a longitudinal program for individuals who are "at risk" for developing a psychotic disorder. Cannabis abuse was assessed in 48 individuals identified as at risk for psychosis based on subsyndromal psychotic symptoms and/or family history. At 1 year follow-up, 6 of the 48 (12.5%) at risk subjects had made the transition to psychosis. Of the 32 subjects who had no use or minimal cannabis use, one subject (3.1%) converted to psychosis. Of the 16 subjects who met criteria for cannabis abuse/dependence, five (31.3%) converted to psychosis. The results show a significant association between cannabis abuse and conversion to psychosis in this sample. Nicotine use was also found to be significantly associated with later conversion. The significant associations between cannabis and nicotine abuse and conversion to psychosis in individuals at risk for schizophrenia suggest that early identification and intervention programs should screen for and provide education about the deleterious effects of these substances.
Prayer and depressive symptoms in a period of secularization: patterns among older adults in the Netherlands.	Prayer is generally recognized as an important aspect of religiousness. Relatively few empiric studies examined the relation between prayer and depressive symptoms in later life, and findings so far are mixed.
Religion and depression in older medical inpatients.	The objective of this study is to examine the religious characteristics of older medical inpatients with major and minor depression, compare them with religious characteristics of nondepressed patients, and examine their relationship to severity and type of depression.
Predictors of subjective cognitive difficulties in older adults with atherosclerotic vascular disease.	The objective of this study was to describe the relationship among cognitive test performance, psychological symptoms, and subjective cognitive difficulties in older adults with atherosclerotic vascular disease.
Are microvascular abnormalities in the retina associated with depression symptoms? The Cardiovascular Health Study.	Depression has been linked with vascular risk factors and stroke. The authors examined the relationship between retinal microvascular abnormalities and depression symptoms in an elderly population.
Frequent napping is associated with excessive daytime sleepiness, depression, pain, and nocturia in older adults: findings from the National Sleep Foundation '2003 Sleep in America' Poll.	The objective of this study was to describe the prevalence and correlates of regular napping among older adults.
Prevalence and impact of paratonia in Alzheimer disease in a multiracial sample.	Paratonia is an external stimulus dependent increase in muscle tone that is absent at rest. It is thought to occur commonly in Alzheimer disease (AD) but is understudied. This study examines paratonia in a multiracial sample.
Estimating development of Aphis pomi (De Geer) (Homoptera: Aphididae) using linear and nonlinear models.	The development period of immature stages of the green apple aphid, Aphis pomi (De Geer) (Homoptera: Aphididae), at 6 constant temperature regimes (20, 24, 28, 30, 32, and 34 degrees C) were modelled to determine mathematical functions for simulating aphid development. 10 models (one linear and nine nonlinear), were used to describe the relationships between temperature and development rate of the different instars and stages of Aphis pomi (DeGeer) at constant temperatures. All models (except logistic and linear) provided accurate values for the optimum temperature for the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th instars larvae and for the total development. The results suggest that among four models (Hilbert & Logan, Lactin, Briere, Analytis) that estimate all three parameters (tmin, topt, tmax), Lactin and Hilbert - Logan models gave the most suitable fit of data.
Predictors of resilience in abused and neglected children grown-up: the role of individual and neighborhood characteristics.	This paper examines individual, family, and neighborhood level predictors of resilience in adolescence and young adulthood and describes changes in resilience over time from adolescence to young adulthood in abused and neglected children grown up.
Women's voices on recovery: a multi-method study of the complexity of recovery from child sexual abuse.	The current study was exploratory and used multiple methods to examine patterns of stability and change in resilient functioning across 7 years of early adulthood. Second, qualitative data were used to examine in greater detail survivors' own narratives about correlates of healing.
Resilience to adult psychopathology following childhood maltreatment: evidence from a community sample.	Child abuse is an important risk for adult psychiatric morbidity. However, not all maltreated children experience mental health problems as adults. The aims of the present study were to address the extent of resilience to adult psychopathology in a representative community sample, and to explore predictors of a good prognosis.
Problems with use of composite end points in cardiovascular trials: systematic review of randomised controlled trials.	To explore the extent to which components of composite end points in randomised controlled trials vary in importance to patients, the frequency of events in the more and less important components, and the extent of variability in the relative risk reductions across components.
Using circular dichroism spectra to estimate protein secondary structure.	Circular dichroism (CD) is an excellent tool for rapid determination of the secondary structure and folding properties of proteins that have been obtained using recombinant techniques or purified from tissues. The most widely used applications of protein CD are to determine whether an expressed, purified protein is folded, or if a mutation affects its conformation or stability. In addition, it can be used to study protein interactions. This protocol details the basic steps of obtaining and interpreting CD data, and methods for analyzing spectra to estimate the secondary structural composition of proteins. CD has the advantage that measurements may be made on multiple samples containing < or =20 microg of proteins in physiological buffers in a few hours. However, it does not give the residue-specific information that can be obtained by x-ray crystallography or NMR.
Analysis of the kinetics of folding of proteins and peptides using circular dichroism.	Circular dichroism (CD) is a useful spectroscopic technique for studying the secondary structure, folding and binding properties of proteins. This protocol covers how to use the intrinsic circular dichroic properties of proteins to follow their folding and unfolding as a function of time. Included are methods of obtaining data and for analyzing the folding and unfolding data to determine the rate constants and the order of the folding and unfolding reactions. The protocol focuses on the use of CD to follow folding when it is relatively slow, on the order of minutes to days. The methods for analyzing the data, however, can also be applied to data collected with a CD machine equipped with stopped-flow accessories in the range of milliseconds to seconds and folding analyzed by other spectroscopic methods including changes in absorption or fluorescence spectra as a function of time.
Application of highly sensitive fluorescent dyes (CyDye DIGE Fluor saturation dyes) to laser microdissection and two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) for cancer proteomics.	Proteome data combined with histopathological information provides important, novel clues for understanding cancer biology and reveals candidates for tumor markers and therapeutic targets. We have established an application of a highly sensitive fluorescent dye (CyDye DIGE Fluor saturation dye), developed for two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), to the labeling of proteins extracted from laser microdissected tissues. The use of the dye dramatically decreases the protein amount and, in turn, the number of cells required for 2D-DIGE; the cells obtained from a 1 mm2 area of an 8-12 microm thick tissue section generate up to 5,000 protein spots in a large-format 2D gel. This protocol allows the execution of large-scale proteomics in a more efficient, accurate and reproducible way. The protocol can be used to examine a single sample in 5 d or to examine hundreds of samples in large-scale proteomics.
Frequency of attendance at religious services, cardiovascular disease, metabolic risk factors and dietary intake in Americans: an age-stratified exploratory analysis.	Few data have been published on the association of attendance at religious services with cardiovascular morbidity and dietary and metabolic risk factors in representative samples of populations despite a known inverse association with mortality and smoking.
Correlates of quality of life in primary care patients with hypertension.	Hypertension has been associated with lower levels of quality of life (QoL). However, the specific correlates of lower QoL in this patient population have remained largely unclear.
Postmenopause is associated with recurrence of differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma.	Differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma (D-PTC) is the most common malignancy arising in the thyroid gland. There are gender differences in the incidence of PTC being mainly observed in females. Low-risk groups consisted of men younger than 40-year-old and women younger than 50-year-old, whereas the high-risk group are older patients. We believe that age is not enough to explain the clinical course of this neoplasm and hypothesize that aggressive behavior of D-PTC may be correlated with hormonal status. Studies that support this idea showed that the follicular neoplastic cells had higher estrogen receptor-alpha in premenopausal (28.1+/-4.5) than in postmenopausal women (14.2+/-2.9). According to author's prior observations, there are evidences correlating recurrence of D-PTC with postmenopause in women. Postmenopause status is characterized by estrogen decrease and FSH increases both associated with EGFR activation. Previous observations identified EGFR over-expression in D-PTC of postmenopause when compared with premenopausal ladies.
Hypertrophy and atrophy inversely regulate Caveolin-3 expression in myoblasts.	Caveolin-3 (Cav-3) is a muscle-specific membrane protein crucial for myoblast differentiation, as loss of the protein due to mutations within the gene causes an autosomal dominant form of limb girdle muscular dystrophy 1-c. Here we show that along with p38 activity the PI3-kinase/AKT/mTOR pathway is required for proper Cav-3 up-regulation during muscle differentiation and hypertrophy, as confirmed by the marked increase of Cav-3 expression in hypertrophied C2C12 cells transfected with an activated form of AKT. Accordingly, Cav-3 expression was further increased during hypertrophy of L6C5 myoblasts treated with Arg(8)-vasopressin and in hypertrophic muscles of MLC/mIGF-1 transgenic mice. In contrast, Cav-3 expression was down-regulated in C2C12 myotubes exposed to atrophic stimuli such as starvation or treatment with dexamethasone. This study clearly suggests that Cav-3 expression is causally linked to the maturation of muscle phenotype and it is tightly regulated by hypertrophic and atrophic stimuli.
A swift all-atom energy-based computational protocol to predict DNA-ligand binding affinity and DeltaTm.	A hybrid molecular mechanics-statistical mechanics-solvent accessibility-based computational protocol is developed to calculate DNA-ligand binding affinity without any database training and is validated on 50 DNA-ligand complexes. The calculated binding energies yield high correlation coefficients of 0.95 (R2 = 0.90) and 0.96 (R2 = 0.93) in linear plots against experimental binding free energies (DeltaGo) and DeltaTm, respectively. The protocol is translated into a swift, web-enabled, freely accessible computational tool, http://www.scfbio-iitd.res.in/preddicta, for DeltaGo and DeltaTm prediction for DNA-ligand complexes to aid and expedite rational drug design attempts.
Sexual symptoms in endocrine diseases: psychosomatic perspectives.	Not only the most frequent causes of endocrine sexual dysfunction, such as hypogonadism and hyperprolactinemia, but almost all extragonadal endocrinopathies (hyper- and hypothyroidism, hyper- and hypocortisolism, steroidal secreting tumors, etc.) may have a greater or lesser effect on sexual function.
Assessing alexithymia and type A behavior in coronary heart disease patients: a multimethod approach.	Despite increasing emphasis on using multiple methods to assess personality constructs in psychosomatic research, previous investigations of relations between alexithymia and type A behavior (TAB) have been limited by the use of single methods of measurement and almost no attempt to assess subcomponents of TAB. The aims of this study were to (1) evaluate levels of agreement between structured interview assessments of alexithymia, TAB, hostility, and time urgency and well-established self-report measures of these constructs, and (2) explore relations between alexithymia and TAB and its subcomponents in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD).
Suicidal ideation among Viennese high school students.	Suicidality spans a spectrum ranging from suicidal thoughts to suicidal acts, and suicidal ideation is more prevalent in youth populations, suggesting important developmental issues. We assessed the prevalence of lifetime suicidal ideation and associated psychosocial factors among Viennese high school students.
Lack of correlation between exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) and clinical indicators of the disease activity and quality of life in mild and moderate asthmatics]	The measurements of exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) are simple and useful method of assessment of inflammation in asthmatics' airways. One of the causes of its limited application in clinical practice is a number of factors influencing the results of measurements. The aim of the study was to determine the usefulness of eNO measurements in assessing the inflammation in a heterogeneous, in relation to atopic and smoking status, group of patients.
Mosquito species succession and physicochemical factors affecting their abundance in rice fields in Mwea, Kenya.	The succession of mosquito species and abiotic factors affecting their distribution and abundance in rice (Oryza spp.) fields was investigated over a 16-wk rice growing cycle covering the period between January and May 2006. Fifteen experimental rice plots were sampled for mosquito larvae and characterized based on rice height, number of tillers, floating vegetation cover, water depth, water temperature, turbidity, salinity, pH, dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, and conductivity. Microscopic identification of 3,025 larvae yielded nine mosquito species predominated by Anopheles arabiensis Patton (45.0%), Culex quinquefasciatus Say (35.8%), Anopheles pharoensis Theobald (9.0%) and Ficalbia splendens Theobald (7.1%). Other species, including Anopheles rufipes Gough, Anopheles coustani Laveran, Anonopheles maculipalpis Giles, Culex annulioris Theobald, and Culex poicilipes Theobald made up 3.1% of the total collection. Anopheles gambiae s.l., Cx. quinquefasciatus, and An. pharoensis occurred throughout the cycle, but they were more abundant up to 4 wk posttransplanting with peaks after fertilizer application. As rice plants became established, three groups of mosquitoes were recognized: the first groups included An. rufipes, Fl. splendens, and Cx. annulioris, which occurred throughout much of the second half of the rice cycle, whereas the second group included Cx. poicilipes, which was found in the middle of the rice cycle. An. coustani and An. maculipalpis formed the third group occurring toward the end of the cycle. Dissolved oxygen, number of tillers, and rice height were negatively associated with the abundance ofAn. arabiensis and Cx. quinquefasciatus larvae. In addition, Cx. quinquefasciatus also was associated with water depth (-ve) and turbidity (+ve). Abundance of An. pharoensis larvae was significantly associated with water temperature (+ve), the number of tillers (-ve), and rice height (-ve), whereas Fl. splendens was significantly associated with the number of tillers (+ve). The results demonstrate a complex nature of the interactions between some of the factors in the ecosystem and mosquito species abundance and calls for time-dependent and species-specific mosquito control operations.
Propranolol in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.	The efficacy of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol in the acute treatment of patients in attacks of either classical (migraine with aura) or common migraine (migraine without aura) headache was assessed in a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover trial with fixed doses. The trial was carried out on 25 patients. The treatment period was set at eight weeks, with the provision of shortening or lengthening it if necessary with a maximum period of seventeen weeks. A minimum of three migraine attacks were treated during each treatment period. Patients were assessed according to: the mean duration and mean severity per treatment period of migraine attacks. The secondary efficacy assessment was made on the basis of the percentage of attacks requiring escape medication per treatment period. The study, based on the t-distribution statistical model with a confidence level of 95%, showed that propranolol had no significant effect in aborting acute attacks of migraine when compared with placebo.
A distribution method for analysing the baseline of pulsatile endocrine signals as exemplified by 24-hour growth hormone profiles.	To develop a method for quantifying the distribution of concentrations present in hormone profiles, which would allow an observer-unbiased estimate of the time concentration attribute and to make an assessment of the baseline.
Relating retinal nerve fiber thickness to behavioral sensitivity in patients with glaucoma: application of a linear model.	Glaucoma causes damage to the retinal ganglion cells and their axons, and this damage can be detected with both structural and functional tests. The purpose of this study was to better understand the relationship between a structural measure of retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) and the most common functional test, behavioral sensitivity with static automated perimetry (SAP). First, a linear model, previously shown to describe the relationship between local visual evoked potentials and SAP sensitivity, was modified to predict the change in RNFL as measured by optical coherence tomography. Second, previous work by others was shown to be consistent with this model.
Is there a relationship between depression and crying? A review.	To conduct a systematic examination of the relationship between depression and crying by reviewing all relevant theory and empirical data including the performance of crying items in measures of depression.
The validity and utility of patients' daily ratings of mood and impairment in clinical trials of bipolar disorder.	Traditional cross-sectional clinician-rated measures have limited use in clinical trials of bipolar disorder. We examine the validity and usefulness of patients' daily ratings of mood and functional impairment during a treatment trial.
Reduced midbrain-pons serotonin transporter binding in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder.	To evaluate current hypothesis regarding the pathophysiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) by studying the serotonin receptor binding in patients with OCD using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT).
Correlation analysis reveals the emergence of coherence in the gene expression dynamics following system perturbation.	Time course gene expression experiments are a popular means to infer co-expression. Many methods have been proposed to cluster genes or to build networks based on similarity measures of their expression dynamics. In this paper we apply a correlation based approach to network reconstruction to three datasets of time series gene expression following system perturbation: 1) Conditional, Tamoxifen dependent, activation of the cMyc proto-oncogene in rat fibroblast; 2) Genomic response to nutrition changes in D. melanogaster; 3) Patterns of gene activity as a consequence of ageing occurring over a life-span time series (25y-90y) sampled from T-cells of human donors. We show that the three datasets undergo similar transitions from an "uncorrelated" regime to a positively or negatively correlated one that is symptomatic of a shift from a "ground" or "basal" state to a "polarized" state. In addition, we show that a similar transition is conserved at the pathway level, and that this information can be used for the construction of "meta-networks" where it is possible to assess new relations among functionally distant sets of molecular functions.
Factors regulating cheese shreddability.	Two sets of cheeses were evaluated to determine factors that affect shred quality. The first set of cheeses was made up of 3 commercial cheeses, Monterey Jack, Mozzarella, and process. The second set of cheeses was made up of 3 Mozzarella cheeses with varying levels of protein and fat at a constant moisture content. A shred distribution of long shreds, short shreds, and fines was obtained by shredding blocks of cheese in a food processor. A probe tack test was used to directly measure adhesion of the cheese to a stainless-steel surface. Surface energy was determined based on the contact angles of standard liquids, and rheological characterization was done by a creep and recovery test. Creep and recovery data were used to calculate the maximum and initial compliance and retardation time. Shredding defects of fines and adhesion to the blade were observed in commercial cheeses. Mozzarella did not adhere to the blade but did produce the most fines. Both Monterey Jack and process cheeses adhered to the blade and produced fines. Furthermore, adherence to the blade was correlated positively with tack energy and negatively with retardation time. Mozzarella cheese, with the highest fat and lowest protein contents, produced the most fines but showed little adherence to the blade, even though tack energy increased with fat content. Surface energy was not correlated with shredding defects in either group of cheese. Rheological properties and tack energy appeared to be the key factors involved in shredding defects.
Discriminative learning and recognition of image set classes using canonical correlations.	We address the problem of comparing sets of images for object recognition, where the sets may represent variations in an object's appearance due to changing camera pose and lighting conditions. Canonical Correlations (also known as principal or canonical angles), which can be thought of as the angles between two d-dimensional subspaces, have recently attracted attention for image set matching. Canonical correlations offer many benefits in accuracy, efficiency, and robustness compared to the two main classical methods: parametric distribution-based and nonparametric sample-based matching of sets. Here, this is first demonstrated experimentally for reasonably sized data sets using existing methods exploiting canonical correlations. Motivated by their proven effectiveness, a novel discriminative learning method over sets is proposed for set classification. Specifically, inspired by classical Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), we develop a linear discriminant function that maximizes the canonical correlations of within-class sets and minimizes the canonical correlations of between-class sets. Image sets transformed by the discriminant function are then compared by the canonical correlations. Classical orthogonal subspace method (OSM) is also investigated for the similar purpose and compared with the proposed method. The proposed method is evaluated on various object recognition problems using face image sets with arbitrary motion captured under different illuminations and image sets of 500 general objects taken at different views. The method is also applied to object category recognition using ETH-80 database. The proposed method is shown to outperform the state-of-the-art methods in terms of accuracy and efficiency.
Changes in arterial oxygen tension correlate with changes in end-expiratory carbon monoxide level.	Carbon monoxide (CO) and oxygen compete for haemoglobin binding sites. While the effects of increased inspiratory oxygen fractions on exhaled carbon monoxide concentrations have been studied previously, the relationships between intravascular oxygen tension, blood carboxyhaemoglobin levels and expiratory CO concentrations remain unclear. We therefore studied the effects of increases in arterial oxygen tension as crucial determinant for the displacement of carbon monoxide from its haemoglobin bond during lung passage.
The "healthy migrant" effect.	In many ways, first-generation immigrants to the United States are healthier than people of similar ethnic backgrounds who were born in this country. However, overtime, the newcomers' health advantages diminish dramatically. This article discusses factors that contribute to the deterioration of immigrants' health: poverty, living in substandard housing, not having access to medical care, adoption of an American diet, smoking, and substance abuse.
Guide to the principles and methods of health sentinel networks in Spain]	Health sentinel networks are being increasingly used in the study of health-related problems. The present article aims to provide a methodological guide - designed by regional sentinel network managers and based on the results of a Delphi study - that can be used to set up and develop a health sentinel network. The main topics in the guide are the following: definition of a health sentinel network; network description: aims and structure; methods for the selection of sentinel participants; description of health processes suitable for study through this methodology: incidence, case definition, exclusion and inclusion criteria; description of the target population: the denominator for incidence rates estimates; quality indicators; periodicity of data collection; dissemination of the information: periodicity and methods, and incorporation of the participants in the decision-making process through multidisciplinary commissions. This guide aims to contribute to the development of sentinel networks in the autonomous communities by providing a common methodology, which could be highly useful when introducing new networks in Spain. Finally, we conclude that it is important to raise awareness of the concept of health sentinel networks, disseminate the information generated, and promote its use by public health administration.
The Hammersmith functional score correlates with the SMN2 copy number: a multicentric study.	Previous studies showed that SMN2 copy number correlates inversely with the disease severity. Our aim was to evaluate SMN2 copy numbers and the Hammersmith functional motor scale in 87 patients with SMA II in order to establish whether, within SMAII, the number of copies correlates with the severity of functional impairment. Our results showed a relative variability of functional scores, but a significant correlation between the number of SMN2 genes and the level of function.
Plasma homovanillic acid levels in schizophrenic patients: correlation with negative symptoms.	The relation between changes in the levels of plasma homovanillic acid (pHVA) and clinical evolution during neuroleptic treatment of schizophrenic patients has not been satisfactorily characterized, as a number of conflicting findings have been reported. Significant correlations have generally been found using the assessment of positive symptoms as an index of clinical outcome. Nevertheless, attempts to correlate pHVA concentrations with negative symptoms have yielded contradictory results. With a view to evaluating if different responses in negative symptoms are associated with distinct pHVA profiles, we examined the levels of pHVA in 46 neuroleptic-free schizophrenic patients and in these patients after neuroleptic treatment. Negative and positive symptoms were also addressed before and after treatment. Our results reveal that at least two classes of negative symptoms exist; the clinical evolution of the first class of negative symptoms parallels that of positive symptoms, and clinical improvement correlates with reduced dopaminergic activity. In contrast, in the second class, reduced dopaminergic activity is associated with a further deterioration of negative symptoms. These findings corroborate the heterogeneity of negative symptoms and may contribute to a better definition of endophenotypes in the schizophrenic syndrome.
Symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder following traumatic brain injury in children.	We investigated changes in inattentive and hyperactive symptoms over 2 years following traumatic brain injury (TBI) in relation to preinjury attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), injury, and socioeconomic status (SES) variables. Postinjury stimulant medication treatment was also documented. Of 175 consecutive patients of ages 5 to 15 years with acute TBI, 148 consented, including 114 without preinjury ADHD (mean age, 10.0 years, SD = 2.76) and 34 with preinjury ADHD (mean age 10.36 years, SD = 2.75). The Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children, Present and Lifetime Version, was administered at baseline and at 6, 12, and 24 months post-injury to assess the presence of nine core inattentive and nine hyperactive symptoms and associated impairment. The baseline assessment was performed within 1 month post-injury to establish preinjury diagnosis.
MR thermometry for laser-induced thermotherapy at 1.5 Tesla]	Evaluation of thermometry with fast MR sequences for laser-induced interstitial laser therapy (LITT) and verification of the thermometric results with a fiber-optic thermometer.
Validity of WAIS-III performance scale subtests completed with the non-dominant hand.	Many patients with hemiplegia use only the non-dominant hand to complete the WAIS-III. It is not known to what degree this administrative change alters scores on specific subtests. To answer this question, we compared scores on Digit Symbol-Coding, Block Design, Picture Arrangement, Object Assembly, and Symbol Search via standard administration (SA) with scores from non-dominant hand administration (NDA). Fifty-eight college students were assigned to either SA or NDA groups. There were 29 SAs and 29 NDAs with means for age of 19.48 years (SD=1.15) and 25.68 years (SD=7.46). Relative to the SA group, the average Digit Symbol-Coding and Symbol Search scores were reduced by 4.04 and 1.62 points by NDA. Scores on the other subtests were not adversely affected by NDA.
Reliability and determinants of anogenital distance and penis dimensions in male newborns from Chiapas, Mexico.	Development of the perineum as well as the external genitalia is determined by dihydrotestosterone, resulting in a greater anogenital distance (AGD) in males than females. In animal experiments with hormonally active agents, anogenital distance is used as a bioassay of fetal androgen action. Use of anogenital distance in human studies has been rare. Because anogenital distance has been an easy-to-measure, sensitive outcome in animal studies, we developed an anthropometric protocol for measurement of anogenital distance in human males. In this paper we describe the method for measurement of three anogenital distances, their reliability, and an assessment of predictors for each in the context of an epidemiological study. We compare the reliabilities and predictors to those for stretched penis length and penis width. A cross-sectional study of 781 newly delivered male infants was conducted in 2002-03 in Chiapas, Mexico. Replicate measures were obtained on nearly all subjects. The reliability of the measures of anogenital distance (0.82-0.91) were higher than for stretched penis length (0.78) and width (0.75). Birthweight and gestational length were more strongly related to anogenital distance than to penis length. Anogenital distance was not related to penis length (r = 0.03). Our large study clearly shows that AGD can be measured well in newborn males, and that the measurements were more reliable than those of penis length. Whether AGD measures in humans relate to clinically important outcomes, however, remains to be determined, as does its utility as a measure of androgen action in epidemiological studies.
Male factor infertility: a twin study.	There is a considerable body of literature on the causes of female infertility, but far less is known about male factor infertility. We conducted a classical twin study to estimate the genetic influence on 12-month male factor infertility. The study used the Vietnam Era Twin (VET) Registry, which includes male twin pairs born between 1939 and 1957, and who served in the US military between 1965 and 1975. In 1987, a health survey was mailed to all twins and obtained a 74% response rate. The current analyses comprised 1795 complete pairs in which both twins were married only once. Proband-wise concordance rates, tetrachoric correlations, and a bivariate probit model were used to calculate estimates of familial clustering and heritability for male factor infertility. The proband concordance rate for male factor infertility was 38% [95% CI 32.8, 42.4] in monozygotic (MZ) pairs and 33% [95% CI 28.0, 38.6] in dizygotic (DZ) pairs. The tetrachoric correlations for male infertility were 0.15 in MZ and 0.04 in DZ pairs. This pattern provides evidence of familial clustering, although genetic influence was not evident (P = 0.21). The current study identified that 12-month male factor infertility clustered within families. However, results suggest that factors unique to individual twins may play a more prominent role in male infertility than additive genetic effects or the common environment.
High familial risks for cerebral palsy implicate partial heritable aetiology.	Cerebral palsy is the commonest cause of severe childhood disability, the aetiology of which is largely unknown. Data on familial aggregation of cerebral palsy are very limited. We defined familial risks for siblings who were hospitalised because of cerebral palsy in Sweden. A nationwide database for neurological diseases was constructed by linking the Multigeneration Register to the Hospital Discharge Register for the years 1987-2001. Standardised hospitalisation ratios (SHRs) were calculated for affected singletons and twins by comparing them with siblings who had no cerebral palsy. A total of 3997 patients were recorded with cerebral palsy. Familial cerebral palsy was uncommon, and it accounted for 1.6% of all cerebral palsy cases. However, for parents who had had one affected child the risk of recurrence in another child was considerably increased. Parents of one affected child had a 4.8-fold risk of having a second affected child, and where the siblings were twins, the risk was 29-fold. These familial risks were particularly high in some clinical subgroups: 17-25 in singletons and 37-155 in twins, including hemiplegia, diplegia and quadriplegia. The remarkably high familial risks are difficult to explain without some contribution of heritable factors. The lack of discordant pairs may suggest that heritable factors are disorder type-specific. Affected concordant sibling pairs should be subjected to molecular studies aiming at identifying the susceptibility gene.
Metacognition and reflexivity in patients with schizophrenia.	Many patients with schizophrenia demonstrate a lack of insight into their disorder and often do not complain about their cognitive impairments. This might be due to generally reduced metacognitive abilities.
Direct comparison of feature tracking and autocorrelation for velocity estimation.	Feature tracking is an algorithm for estimating tissue motion and blood flow using pulse-echo ultrasound. It was proposed as a computationally simpler alternative to other techniques such as autocorrelation and time-domain cross correlation. The advantage of feature tracking is that it selectively extracts easily identifiable parts of the speckle signal (e.g., the local maxima), reducing the amount of information being processed. Studies on feature tracking to date have used stationary, speckle-generating targets to simulate blood flow. Also, feature tracking has not been compared with accepted commercial methods. This study directly compares feature tracking performance with the complex autocorrelation method, which is the most common color flow algorithm. Experiments were performed with both a rotating string phantom and a commercial flow phantom surrounded by tissue-mimicking material, using 2.25 MHz and 3.5 MHz transducers, under more realistic signal-to-clutter (-15 to -35 dB) and signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) (15 dB to 3 dB) than previous translating-phantom tests. The feature tracking approach is shown to produce mean estimates comparable to autocorrelation (R2 = 0.9954 and 0.9960 for 6-sample and 12-sample autocorrelation, respectively, and R2 = 0.9998 for both 6-sample and 12-sample feature tracking) for velocities ranging from 10 to 100 cm/s. The variance of feature-tracking estimates is shown to compare favorably to the complex autocorrelation approach using the same number of ensemble flow samples (19 to 28% lower standard deviation for 3.5 MHz, 36 to 55% lower standard deviation for 2.25 MHz). However, linear regression of the feature locations does not produce an appreciable improvement in estimation variance. Discussion of the need for further research, particularly in the areas of feature detection and feature correspondence, is given.
Autoinducer production and quorum-sensing dependent phenotypes of Pseudomonas aeruginosa vary according to isolation site during colonization of intubated patients.	Pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently colonizes and is responsible for severe ventilator-associated pneumonia in intubated patients. A quorum-sensing (QS) circuit, depending on the production of the two QS-signaling molecules (autoinducers, AIs) 3-oxo-C12-HSL and C4-HSL, regulates the production by P. aeruginosa of several virulence factors and is required for biofilm formation. Therefore QS-inhibition has been suggested as a new target for preventive and/or therapeutic strategies. However the precise role of QS during colonization and subsequent infections of intubated patients remains unclear.
Alterations of time judgement with age]	Time perception can be divided into two processes: time experience and time judgement. Although there have been frequent reports of changes in these two processes with increasing age, none of these changes has been demonstrated using objective measures.
Screening of cognitive functions and the prediction of incident dementia by means of the SIDAM]	The suitability of the SIDAM (Structured Interview for the Diagnosis of Dementia) for the detection of pre-clinical stages of dementia.
Serotonin in a diencephalic nucleus controlling communication in an electric fish: sexual dimorphism and relationship to indicators of dominance.	Serotonin regulates aggressive behavior. The production or release of serotonin is sexually dimorphic and related to social rank in many species. We examined serotonin expression in the central posterior/prepacemaker nucleus (CP/PPn) of the electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus. The CP/PPn is a thalamic nucleus that controls agonistic and reproductive electrocommunication signals known as chirps and gradual frequency rises. In parts of the CP/PPn that control chirping, females had more than twice as many serotonergic fibers and terminals as did males. Serotonin immunoreactivity in chirp-controlling areas of the CP/PPn was also negatively correlated with two indicators of dominance: electric organ discharge (EOD) frequency and body mass. Within sexes, the negative correlation between EOD frequency and serotonergic innervation of the PPn was significant in females, but not in males. Females with higher EOD frequencies had less serotonin in the CP/PPn than did females with lower EOD frequencies. Thus, the CP/PPn contained more serotonin in females than in males, and in particular, more serotonin in females with EOD frequencies typical of social subordinates than in females with EOD frequencies typical of social dominants. These results, combined with previous findings that serotonin inhibits chirping and that females chirp much less than males, suggest that serotonin may link sex, social rank, and the production of agonistic communication signals. The relative simplicity of the neural circuits that control the EOD and chirping make the electromotor system well-suited for studying the cellular, physiological, and behavioral mechanisms by which serotonin modulates agonistic communication.
Using a height-weight classification for analysis of food energy and main nutrient contents in 24-hours menus of 17-23-year-old Estonian female students.	The study is focused on creating an anthropometric model that would enable to associate the body build peculiarities with nutritional variables. Thirty-six body measurements and 12 skinfolds were measured on 131 17-23-year-old female students of the University of Tartu, and 12 body composition characteristics were calculated. The subjects had to submit descriptions of their 24-hour menus. Nutrient intake was determined using the Micro-Nutrica software and the food composition database; the energy (in kcal) and main nutrients (proteins, fats and carbohydrates) content in the subjects' 24-hour menus were calculated. All body measurements were compared with nutritional variables, and 29 anthropometric variables were found that showed statistically significant correlations with at least one nutrient characteristic. The amount of food consumed correlated positively with body density and negatively with weight, circumferences, skinfolds and all indicators of body fat content (r reached 0.32). To associate body size, shape and composition with the amount of food consumed, a 5 SD height and weight classification was used, which consisted of three classes of concordance between height and weight (small, medium, large) and two classes of disconcordance - pyknomorphs and leptomorphs. All the 29 body measurements and nutrient variables were distributed systematically between the different classes. The pyknomorphous class with its greater body fat content and smaller density contrasted clearly with the class of leptomorphs. Food consumption in total as well as per 1 kg of body weight was smaller in pykniks than in leptosomes. Protein consumption did not reveal statistically significant differences. In small, medium and large classes, consumption of energy, fats and carbohydrates could not be proved about protein consumption. One should not overestimate the significance of BMI in nutritional studies. BMI characterises only obesity and cannot replace the characterisation of different body types. In our study, BMI of the small and the leptosomic class was almost equal, although these body types differ greatly from each other.
Sexual dimorphism from birth to age 60 in relation to the type of body shape.	Sexual dimorphism depends on age. It can be analysed within a population by a comparison of sex-specific body measurements based on cross-sectional samples. We analysed four length measurements, three circumferences, and one skinfold diameter of a representative cross-sectional sample of healthy German subjects aged 0 to 65 years. We here report that sexual dimorphism of these body measurements already is present in newborns. The percentages of anthropometric differences between female and male subjects behave in a specific pattern during growth age from birth up to adolescence. Girls are born smaller on an average, but they have a more accelerated growth than boys. Girls reach the peak of their adolescent growth spurt earlier in their chronological age. This means that their biological age at this time is at least 2 years older than that of boys of the same chronological age. This sex-specifically differential onset of the adolescent growth spurt, and its peak, as well as the differential decrease of growth velocity cause a dramatic change in sexual dimorphism. This change is clearly shown in this cross-sectional study. Except for the subcutaneous fat layer, there is a clear male growth advantage in all of the measurements investigated after the peak of the adolescent growth spurt. The largest differences between the measurements of both sexes in favour of the male sex are reached at young adult age. In the further course of life, the anthropometrical differences between the sexes decrease again. Sexual dimorphism within a population at a defined chronological age is therefore not only the result of a developing sex-specific physique, but also the result of a sex-specific growth velocity during the successive stages of biological development. Interestingly, we found that the sex-specific velocity of physical development, and by this the development of sexual dimorphism, proceeds differently in the tall and slim leptomorphic individuals in comparison to the smaller and more corpulent pyknomorphic individuals.
Interrelationship of waist circumference and subcutaneous fat with metabolic and blood pressure measures among Asian Indian men.	People of South Asian origin (e.g. Indians) usually have a more centralized distribution of body fat with thick trunk skinfolds and markedly higher mean waist circumference (WC) for a given level of body fat percentage compared to Europeans and are exceedingly susceptible to coronary heart disease (CHD) worldwide. Owing to ethnic heterogeneity, population specific information on the interrelationship of fat topography with metabolic and blood pressure measures in different Indian populations is immediately required. In view of the above consideration the present work was undertaken to study the interrelationship of the WC and the sum of four (biceps, triceps, subscapular, suprailiac) skinfolds (SF4) with metabolic and blood pressure variables among the well-off Bengalee men aged 30 years and above from Calcutta and suburbs. The sample of the present study comprises 212 male railway employees of the Eastern Railway, Government of India. All 212 subjects were residents of Calcutta and its suburbs. Anthropometrics, lipids (total cholesterol, fasting triglyceride, high, low and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol), fasting plasma glucose and blood pressure measures were taken from each participant. Two-sample (unpaired) t-test revealed that centrally obese men (waist circumference=90 cm) had significantly greater means compared to centrally non-obese subjects for metabolic risk factors and blood pressure. Inter-tertile comparison of lipids, lipoproteins and glucose revealed that there existed no significant differences in their distribution according to SF4 tertiles. The results of multiple regression analyses (after controlling for the linear, cubic and quadratic effect of age) using waist circumferences and SF4 as independent variables demonstrated the significant effect of central obesity on metabolic and blood pressure variables in the study population. This finding indicated the clinical and physiological importance of central body fat accumulation particularly in and around the waist line in explaining risk factors for chronic diseases, e.g. CHD.
Making data analysis easier.	There has been a break-through in data analysis tools, and information now can be delivered in usable formats that contribute to decision making. These new tools make use of the volume of data and the length of data history now accumulating in behavioral health information systems. These tools can help bring data-driven, evidence-based, 21st-century decision support to behavioral healthcare.
Trait dissociation and commission errors in memory reports of emotional events.	In 2 studies we examined whether trait dissociation is related to spontaneous commission errors (reports of events that did not occur) in free recall of emotional events. We also explored whether the functional locus of the dissociation-commission link is related to repeated retrieval or shallow encoding. In Experiment 1 participants were exposed to a staged incident and were repeatedly asked to add more information to their written accounts of the event. Dissociation levels were related to commission errors, indicating that people who report many dissociative experiences tend to make more commission errors. However, it was not the case that the overall increase in commission errors over successive retrieval attempts was typical for high dissociative participants. In Experiment 2 participants saw a video fragment of a severe car accident. During the video, half the participants performed a dual task, and the other half did not. Participants performing the dual task made more commission errors than controls, but this effect was not more pronounced in those with high trait dissociation scores. These studies show that there is a link between dissociation and spontaneous commission errors in memory reports of emotional events, but the functional locus of this link remains unclear.
Random sequences with power-law correlations exhibit proteinlike behavior.	We use a replica approach to investigate the thermodynamic properties of the random heteropolymers with persistent power-law correlations in monomer sequence. We show that this type of sequences possess proteinlike properties. In particular, we show that they can fold into stable unique three-dimensional structure (the "native" structure, in protein terminology) through two different types of pathways. One is a fast folding pathway and leads directly to the native structure. Another one, a more slower pathway, passes through the microphase separated (MPS) state and includes a number of intermediate glassy states. The scale and the magnitude of the MPS are calculated. The frozen state can be reached only by sequences with weak long-range correlations. The critical value for the correlation exponent is found, above which (strong correlations) freezing is impossible.
How does the homophone meaning generation test associate with the phonemic and semantic fluency tests? A quantitative and qualitative analysis.	The current study examines whether the Homophone Meaning Generation Test (HMGT; Warrington, 2000) is correlated with the phonemic and/or the semantic fluency tests and compares its association with the number of switches and clusters and the mean cluster size of these two tasks. One hundred healthy Hebrew speakers (18-35 years of age; mean = 24.9) generated meanings for 24 homophones and provided words beginning in three different letters, as well as words belonging to three semantic categories. Results show that the HMGT score correlated significantly and similarly with the total score of both the phonemic and the semantic fluency tests. There was a significant correlation between the HMGT and the number of phonemic switches and clusters, but not between the HMGT and the mean phonemic cluster size. The HMGT correlated with the number of semantic switches and clusters, as well as with the mean semantic cluster size. The findings suggest that the relationship between these tests is mediated by a shared executive component, attesting to the HMGT's utility in tapping into mechanisms of shifting and mental flexibility.
Response validity in forensic neuropsychology: exploratory factor analytic evidence of distinct cognitive and psychological constructs.	Forensic neuropsychology studies usually address either cognitive effort or psychological response validity. Whether these are distinct constructs is unclear. In 122 participants evaluated in a compensation-seeking context, the present Exploratory Factor Analysis examined whether forced-choice cognitive effort measures (Victoria Symptom Validity Test, Test of Memory Malingering, Letter Memory Test) and Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, Second Edition (MMPI-2) validity scales (L, F, K, FBS, Fp, RBS, Md, Dsr2, S) load on independent factors. Regardless of factor rotation strategy (orthogonal or oblique), four response validity factors emerged by means of both Principal Components Analysis (82.7% total variance) and Principal-Axis Factor Analysis (74.1% total variance). The four factors were designated as follows: Factor I, with large loadings from L, K, and S--underreporting of psychological symptoms; Factor II, with large loadings from FBS, RBS, and Md-overreporting of neurotic symptoms; Factor III, with large loadings from VSVT, TOMM, and LMT--insufficient cognitive effort; and Factor IV, with the largest loadings from F, Fp, and Dsr2--overreporting of psychotic/rarely endorsed symptoms. Results reflect the heterogeneity of response validity in forensic samples referred for neuropsychological evaluation. Administration of both cognitive effort measures and psychological validity scales is imperative to accurate forensic neuropsychological assessment.
Substantial risk of "Accidental MCI" in healthy older adults: base rates of low memory scores in neuropsychological assessment.	When assessing older adults for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia, it is important to understand how often low memory scores are obtained in healthy people in order to minimize false positive diagnoses. This study examines the base rates of low memory scores in older adults across a battery of memory tests. Participants included older adults (55-79 years; N = 742) from the Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB; Stern and White, 2003a) standardization sample. The NAB Memory Module consists of four co-normed memory tests (i.e., List Learning, Shape Learning, Story Learning, and Daily Living Memory) yielding 10 demographically corrected T-scores. When all 10 T-scores were examined simultaneously, 55.5% of older adults had one or more scores one standard deviation (SD) below the mean. At <1.5 SDs, 30.8% of healthy older adults obtained one or more low memory scores. Obtaining low memory scores occurs more often with lesser intellectual abilities. For example, 56.5% of older adults with low average intellectual abilities obtained one or more low memory scores (<1.5 SDs) compared to 21.1% with high average intellectual abilities. Understanding the base rates of low scores can reduce over-interpretation of isolated low memory scores and minimize false positive diagnoses of MCI.
Serum levels of interleukin-15 and interleukin-10 and their correlation with proliferating cell nuclear antigen in multiple myeloma.	In order to determine prognostic factors characterizing multiple myeloma (MM) cell kinetics, bone marrow proliferative activity and serum Interleukin-10 (IL-10), and Interleukin-15 (IL-15) levels were measured in 40 newly diagnosed MM patients, compared with 10-age and sex-matched-healthy controls. Cell proliferation was evaluated by employing a monoclonal antibody directed against the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), whereas IL-10 and IL-15 were measured with quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay methods. IL-15, IL-10 and PCNA were higher in the patient group than in controls (P<0.001). IL-10 levels, and PCNA increased significantly with increasing Durie-Salmon disease stage (I-III, P<0.002, and P=0.001, respectively). Serum IL-15 levels in MM stage III patients were elevated in comparison with stages I and II, the difference however, did not reach statistical significance. There was a significant positive correlation between serum IL-15 and IL-10 levels (r: 0.372, P<0.01), and between serum IL-10 and PCNA (r: 0.608, P<0.0001), as well as a positive correlation of serum IL-15 with PCNA, which marginally failed to reach statistical significance. Serum IL-15 levels are elevated in MM patients, increase with advancing stage, and correlate with Il-10 and PCNA. These proliferative factors may be useful in assessing disease progression in MM.
Five-factor model personality traits associated with alcohol-related diagnoses in a clinical sample.	Personality variables may have important implications for the description and treatment of individuals with alcohol problems. The purpose of this article was to examine the specificity of previously observed trait/alcohol relations and the temporal relations of trait elevations and alcohol problems.
Migraine and adiponectin: is there a connection?	Migraine is a common disorder, characterized by recurrent episodes of headache and associated symptoms. The full pathophysiology of migraine is incompletely delineated. Current theories suggest that it is a neurovascular disorder involving cortical depression, neurogenic inflammation and vasodilation. Various neuropeptides and cytokines have been implicated in the pathophysiology of migraine including calcitonin gene-related peptide, interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. There is evidence demonstrating an association between migraine and processes associated with inflammation, atherosclerosis, immunity and insulin sensitivity. Similarly, adiponectin, an adipocytokine secreted by adipose tissue, has protective roles against the development of insulin resistance, dyslipidaemia and atherosclerosis and exhibits anti-inflammatory properties. The anti-inflammatory activities of adiponectin include inhibition of IL-6 and TNF-induced IL-8 formation, as well as induction of the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and IL-1 receptor antagonist. Adiponectin levels are also inversely correlated with C-reactive protein (CRP), TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels. Likewise, recent studies have shown a possible correlation between CRP, TNF-alpha and IL-6 and migraine attacks. In addition, insulin sensitivity is impaired in migraine and obesity is a risk factor for the transformation from episodic to chronic migraine. In this review we discuss the basic science of adiponectin and its potential connection to the pathophysiology of migraine. Future research may focus on how adiponectin levels are potentially altered during migraine attacks, and how that information can be potentially translated into migraine therapy.
Cryo-scanning electron microscopy (Cryo-SEM) of boar semen frozen in medium-straws and MiniFlatPacks.	In this study we demonstrate, in the frozen state, the architecture of frozen boar spermatozoa collected from the sperm-rich fraction of ejaculates (n=13) from four fertile boars packed and split-frozen in medium-straws (MS) and MiniFlatPacks (MFP), cross-sectioned in the frozen state and evaluated by image analysis on images obtained by use of cryo-scanning electron microscopy (Cryo-SEM). The tested hypothesis was that the degree of in situ dehydration and levels of homogeneity of boar semen either frozen in MSs or MFPs packages differ between them, with MFPs allowing for a more uniform dehydration of the spermatozoa and a higher cryosurvival, monitored by computer assisted sperm analysis (CASA) as proportion of linearly motile spermatozoa, compared to semen packaged and processed in MSs. The organization and relative surface of biological material (veins; e.g., frozen extender, bound water, solutes and spermatozoa) as well as free water (lakes) was measured as the degree of dehydration of the samples. The apparent organization of lakes and veins differed between packages, with the MFPs depicting larger lakes than the MSs. The sizes of the lakes in the latter appeared, moreover, highly asymmetrical depending on their position of the section. The relative surface of these lakes per section, respectively veins differed between packages (P<0.05), indicating a larger amount of free-water (lakes; 81.73+/-2.07% vs. 77.91+/-1.57%) in the MFPs and, consequently, thinner veins than in MSs. In conclusion, MFPs seem to allow for a more homogenous dehydration of the spermatozoa/frozen extender compared to MSs, which might account for their somewhat better sperm quality post-thaw.
Effects of lead, molybdenum, rubidium, arsenic and organochlorines on spermatogenesis in fish: monitoring at Mekong Delta area and in vitro experiment.	To estimate the influence of water contaminants on fish reproduction in the Mekong Delta area, we sampled cultivated male catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus), investigated testicular development, and measured persistent organic pollutants (POPs) and trace element levels in muscle and liver, respectively. Various testes sizes were observed although sampling took place during a short period. Histological analysis revealed that all developmental stages of germ cells were observed in catfish with large testis, whereas only necrotic spermatogonia but no other germ cells were observed in catfish with small testis. In small testis, furthermore, vacuolization and hypertrophy of Sertoli cells were observed. Measurement of POPs in muscle and trace elements in liver demonstrated that there were negative correlations between GSI and the concentrations of Pb, Mo, Rb and As. To clarify possible direct effects of Pb, Mo, Rb and As on spermatogenesis in fish, we investigated the effects of these trace elements on spermatogenesis using in vitro testicular organ culture of Japanese eel (Anguilla japonica). Treatment with each of the trace elements alone did not affect spermatogenesis. However, treatment with 10(-7)M of Pb, 10(-5) and 10(-4)M of Mo, 10(-5)-10(-3)M of Rb or 10(-5)M of As inhibited the spermatogenesis induced by 11-ketotestosterone (11KT). Furthermore, treatment with 10(-4)M of As in combination with 11KT caused necrosis of testicular fragments. Taken together, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that Pb, Mo, Rb and As can exert inhibitory effects on spermatogenesis in catfish inhabiting the Mekong Delta area.
The Clinical Utility of the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF) in the diagnosis of ADHD.	Current theories hypothesize that deficits in executive functioning (EF) are responsible for the symptoms of ADHD and that specific patterns of EF deficits may be associated with different subtypes of ADHD. The present study evaluates the validity and clinical usefulness of the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function, a behavior rating scale designed to assess dimensions of EF.
Relationship between twin-to-twin delivery interval and umbilical artery acid-base status in the second twin.	The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of twin-to-twin delivery interval on umbilical artery acid-base status of the second twin at birth. This was a retrospective cohort study of all live-born twins with measured acid-base status in umbilical arterial blood who were delivered after 34 weeks' gestation from June 2003 to February 2006. Twins with any maternal or fetal complications were excluded. Subjects were divided into two groups based on the mode of delivery of the first twin: normal cephalic vaginal deliveries (n=40) or cesarean deliveries (n=67). The inter-twin differences in umbilical arterial blood pH, PCO(2), PO(2), and base excess in twin newborns born vaginally were significantly greater than the corresponding differences in those born by cesarean section. A significant positive correlation was found between twin-to-twin delivery interval and inter-twin difference in umbilical arterial blood pH in twin newborns born vaginally. The umbilical arterial blood pH of the second twin was less than 7.0 in 14% (2/14) in cases delivered more than 20 min after the first twin. The umbilical arterial blood gas status of the second twin worsened with increasing twin-to-twin delivery interval, and pathologic fetal acidemia (pH<7.0) might develop in the second twin when the twin-to-twin delivery interval was greater than 20 min.
Immunohistochemical analysis of non-small cell lung cancer: correlation with clinical parameters and prognosis.	Non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC) vary in their biologic behavior. Recurrence and tumor-related mortality may be attributable to molecular abnormalities in primary tumors. This study evaluated such immunophenotypes with regard to cell cycle regulation and proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis, to determine their significance for patient outcome. Core biopsies from 219 patients with NSCLC were assembled on tissue microarrays, and the expressions of p16, p21, p27, cyclin B1, cyclin E, Ki-67, caspase-3, survivin, bcl-2, VEGF, and endostatin were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Despite previously described prognostic relevance of some of the investigated molecules, many of those markers were not directly associated with recurrence or survival. However, there was a trend for p16 immunoreactivity to be associated with a good prognosis (57% vs. 42% in 5-yr survival) (p=0.071). bcl-2 expression was strongly correlated with a better outcome (65% vs. 45% in 5-yr survival) (p=0.029), and the hazard of death for bcl-2 positive patients was 0.42 times of that for bcl-2 negative patients (p=0.047). A multivariate analysis with Cox proportional hazards model confirmed that the lymph node status (p=0.043) and stage (p=0.003) were other independent prognostic factors. Our results suggest that p16 and bcl-2 provide prognostic information independent of the TNM stage in NSCLC.
Reproducibility of pressure pain threshold and visual analog scale findings in chronic whiplash patients.	Assessment of pain in patients with whiplash-associated disorders has been previously reported using a variety of instruments. However, the reproducibility of the findings derived from such measurements has not been explored with respect to this particular patients group.
Relations of attachment styles and group cohesion in premier league female volleyball players.	The relations of attachment styles with group cohesion were monitored for premier league female volleyball teams. 74 volleyball players from 8 teams responded to the Relationship Scales Questionnaire and Group Environment Questionnaire. Pearson correlations indicated significant association of attachment styles with group cohesion. Specifically, a significant negative correlation was found between female volleyball players' individual attraction to the group-social subscale and fearful attachment style. In addition, there was a significant positive correlation for scores on the group integration-social and secure and preoccupied attachment subscales and a significant negative correlation for scores on the group integration-task subscale and preoccupied attachment style. In conclusion, attachment styles might be considered important in predicting group cohesion
Warning: subtle aspects of strategy assessment may affect correlations among spatial tests.	In this study, preliminary to a larger experiment, 42 participants completed four different spatial tests and, after each test, a strategy questionnaire. For half of the participants, visualizational strategies were presented first in this questionnaire, and for the other half, analytical strategies. The order of strategy descriptions had effects on the strategies reported and on the intercorrelations among the spatial tests and between the spatial tests and an inductive-reasoning test. In the group first presented with visualizational strategies, intercorrelations among the spatial tests were higher and correlations with the reasoning test were lower than in the group first presented with analytical strategies. Bootstrap analyses with 100 random splits of the sample confirmed this result. The findings are interpreted as indications of a priming effect by the strategy descriptions which affected the way participants dealt with subsequent tests. Implications for strategy assessment are discussed.
Construct validity of the helplessness/hopelessness/haplessness scale: correlations with perfectionism and depression.	In a sample of 117 undergraduates, helplessness scores and the discrepancy scores on a measure of perfectionism predicted depression scores, providing evidence for construct validity for the hopelessness, helplessness, and haplessness scales.
Symbolic significance of initials on longevity.	The longevities of deceased major league baseball players who died prior to 1950 (N=3835) and whose initials formed acronyms, words, or names with "positive" or "negative" affect, as rated a priori by two judges, were compared with those for a group of neutral controls matched for birth year and career length, using the Berkeley standardized mortality tables. Players (n=11) with positive initials, e.g., A.C.E., lived a mean of 13 years longer than players (n=30) with negative initials, e.g., D.E.D., or players with neutral initials (n=864). These results corroborated a previous study and suggest positive name symbols are associated with increased longevity in this sample.
Morning and evening personality characteristics in a sample of young Italians.	The goal of this study was to investigate associations of morning and evening personality types with personality dimensions in a convenient sample of 60 men and 60 women, ages 18 to 29 years. A short form of the Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire and a personality questionnaire Come mi vedo (How I see myself), based on the 5-factor model of personality, were given. Several personality dimensions appear to be significantly correlated with Morningness scores: Conscientiousness (positively) and Openmindedness (negatively). The analysis indicated morning types tend to reach their goals resolutely and to plan their steps, they prefer to be precise, tidy, punctual, trustworthy; they have a sense of duty and responsibility; they are also less original and less open to culture and novelties, less curious, conformist, traditionalist, and less well-informed, hardworking, steady, tenacious, and diligent, on the Come mi vedo.
Morningness-eveningness correlates with verbal ability in women but not men.	Individuals differ along a continuum of preference for diurnal activity level, known as Morningness-Eveningness. Some evidence suggests that an Eveningness orientation (i.e., preference for later rise and bed times) is weakly associated with higher cognitive ability, but no studies have examined this relationship using clinically accepted, psychometrically valid measures of cognitive ability. The present study examined the correlation between Morningness-Eveningness with scores on the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) of 54 healthy volunteers. Lower Morningness (i.e., Greater Eveningness) orientation was correlated (r = -.23) with higher Verbal IQ for the entire sample. When the data were examined separately by sex, the correlation between Morningness-Eveningness and Verbal IQ was significant for women (r = -.44) but not for men (r = -.09).
MR technology for biological studies in mice.	Mouse models are crucial for the study of genetic factors and processes that influence human disease. In addition to tools for measuring genetic expression and establishing genotype, tools to accurately and comparatively assess mouse phenotype are essential in order to characterize pathology and make comparisons with human disease. MRI provides a powerful means of evaluating various anatomical and functional changes and hence is growing in popularity as a phenotypic readout for biomedical research studies. To accommodate the large numbers of mice needed in most biological studies, mouse MRI must offer high-throughput image acquisition and efficient image analysis. This article reviews the technology of multiple-mouse MRI, a method that images multiple mice or specimens simultaneously as a means of enabling high-throughput studies. Aspects of image acquisition and computational analysis in multiple-mouse studies are also described.
Spared place and object-place learning but limited spatial working memory capacity in rats with selective lesions of the dentate gyrus.	We studied the cognitive performance of rats with colchicine-induced lesions of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) on a range of spatial, non-spatial and mixed spatial/procedural tasks. Rats were assigned to three experimental groups receiving large colchicine lesions (7 microg per hippocampus), small colchicine lesions (1.75 microg per hippocampus) or sham lesions. Stereological estimates of cell density indicated that the colchicine treatments induced dose-dependent damage to the DG, while sparing in large part other hippocampal subfields. Remarkably, the behavioural results showed that the colchicine lesions did not affect the performance of rats in an object discrimination task, in an object-place associative task in which a familiar object was displaced from a given position nor in a spontaneous spatial discrimination task performed in the T-maze. However, rats in both lesion groups were severely impaired in a reinforced non-matching-to-position working memory task conducted in the T-maze. Importantly, performance in the working memory task correlated strongly with cell density in the DG but not with cell density in the CA1 and CA3 areas. Only rats with large-lesions showed a transient deficit in a reinforced rule-based conditional discrimination task. These data demonstrated that rats with selective lesions of the DG readily acquire and retain neural representations relative to objects and places but are specifically impaired in their ability to update rapidly and flexibly spatial information that is essential to guide goal-directed actions.
Effect of statistical methodology on normal limits in nerve conduction studies.	Mean +/- 2 standard deviations (SD), which relies on a Gaussian distribution, has traditionally been used to derive normal limits for nerve conduction studies. Our purpose was to examine skew in nerve conduction study (NCS) parameters, and to compare normal limits derived by several alternative methods. We examined 22 NCS parameters from 75 asymptomatic, nondiabetic men (controls). The coefficient of skewness (g1) was significantly positive (P less than 0.10, two-tailed test) in 5 of 8 amplitude and 6 of 8 latency measurements. Transformation reduced g1 in 19 of 22 parameters, and was optimal when g1 was closest to zero. For each measurement, ideal normal limits were defined as mean +/- 2 SD of the optimally transformed data of the control subjects. The percentage of 66 diabetic subjects classified as abnormal by the raw data, but normal by the ideal normal limits, was the positive misclassification rate; while the percentage considered normal by the raw data, but abnormal by the ideal normal limits, was the negative misclassification rate. Mean +/- 2 SD of the raw data produced up to 11% positive misclassifications and 12% negative misclassifications. When the range of observed values was used, up to 6% positive misclassifications and 13% negative misclassifications were found, while the 2.5 or 97.5 percentile values produced up to 10% positive misclassifications and 13% negative misclassifications. We conclude that analyses using the raw data to derive normal limits result in an unacceptable rate of misclassification. Normal limits should be derived from the mean +/- 2 SD of the optimally transformed data.
Correlation of hearing screening with developmental outcomes in infants over a 2-year period.	Evoked otoacoustic emission (OAE) and auditory brainstem response (ABR) results for hearing screening among infants have good concordance. However, good correlation with the Griffiths Developmental Scales remains to be desired.
Acute otitis media in schoolchildren: allergic diseases and skin prick test positivity.	Single and repeated episodes of acute otitis media (AOM) in 10-year-old children were associated with reported allergic disease. Further, skin prick test (SPT)-negative children with reported asthma and allergic rhinoconjunctivitis had increased risk of AOM. We suggest that optimal treatment of allergic symptoms may have an effect on AOM in school children.
Hopelessness as a predictor of non-response to fluoxetine in major depressive disorder.	The purpose of this study was to study hopelessness as a predictor of response to fluoxetine in outpatients with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD).
Hearing loss in relation to educational attainment and cognitive abilities: a population study.	Severe hearing loss among children has often been found to be associated with educational disadvantage and lower-than-average performance on cognitive tests, but less is known about the much more widespread milder levels of hearing loss. In a cohort of 22 162 young Danish men appearing before the draft board, about 75% had normal hearing at 20 dB, and about 20% had mild hearing loss not worse than 25 dB in both ears for all tones less than 3000 Hz, and not worse than an average of 45 dB in both ears for all tones above 2000 Hz. The remaining 5% had more severe hearing loss. The proportions who had continued school education after age 16 years among the three groups were 51%, 42% and 34% respectively and their mean IQs were 101, 98 and 94. The evidence suggests that even mild hearing loss is associated with distinct educational and cognitive disadvantage which itself may result from difficulties in following classroom teaching.
Does age at onset support a dimensional relationship between Bipolar II disorder and major depressive disorder?	The current categorical splitting of bipolar and depressive disorders has been questioned. Age at onset is an important variable used to support such a division. Study aim was to assess the distribution of age at onset between bipolar II disorder (BP-II) and major depressive disorder (MDD), and onset age-bipolar family history, onset age-BP-II diagnosis dose-response relationships. No bi-modal distribution and no presence of dose-response relationships would not support a categorical distinction between BP-II and MDD. Consecutive 389 BP-II and 261 MDD major depressive episode (MDE) outpatients were interviewed with the DSM-IV Structured Clinical Interview and the Family History Screen, by a mood specialist psychiatrist in a private practice. Age at onset was defined as age at onset of the first MDE. Distribution of age at onset between BP-II and MDD was studied by Kernel density estimate and histogram methods, dose-response relationships by ROC analysis. BP-II, versus MDD, had significantly lower age at onset, more recurrences, and more bipolar family history. Kernel density estimate and histogram distributions of age at onset showed no bi-modality. Likelihood ratios between age at onset and bipolar family history loading, and between age at onset and BP-II diagnosis, showed dose-response relationships. The bi-modality and dose-response approaches, versus classic diagnostic validators, seem to support a dimensional relationship between BP-II and MDD.
Children's disruptiveness, peer rejection, friends' deviancy, and delinquent behaviors: a process-oriented approach.	This study examined whether peer rejection and affiliation with deviant friends throughout childhood could mediate the link between early disruptiveness and two aspects of delinquent behaviors (i.e., violence and substance use) in a sample of 375 children. Furthermore, we tested whether the two putative mediators operated in a sequential manner or in a parallel manner. Participants' disruptiveness, peer rejection, and friends' deviancy were assessed throughout childhood (ages 7 to 13). Delinquency-related outcomes were assessed at ages 14 and 15 years. Results indicate that the sequential mediational model was supported when delinquency-related violence was the outcome, but not when substance use was the outcome. The discussion stresses the differential role of peer rejection and affiliation with deviant friends in regard to the two outcomes considered in this study and in regard to the time frame when they were measured.
Childhood and adolescent resiliency, regulation, and executive functioning in relation to adolescent problems and competence in a high-risk sample.	This study first examined the respective relations of resiliency and reactive control with executive functioning. It then examined the relationship of these different domains to the development of academic and social outcomes, and to the emergence of internalizing and externalizing problem behavior in adolescence. Resiliency and reactive control were assessed from preschool to adolescence in a high-risk sample of boys and girls (n = 498) and then linked to component operations of neuropsychological executive functioning (i.e., response inhibition, interference control, fluency, working memory/set-shifting, planning, and alertness), assessed in early and late adolescence. Consistent, linear relations were found between resiliency and executive functions (average r = .17). A curvilinear relationship was observed between reactive control and resiliency, such that resiliency was weaker when reactive control was either very high or very low. In multivariate, multilevel models, executive functions contributed to academic competence, whereas resiliency and interference control jointly predicted social competence. Low resiliency, low reactive control, and poor response inhibition uniquely and additively predicted internalizing problem behavior, whereas low reactive control and poor response inhibition uniquely predicted externalizing problem behavior. Results are discussed in relation to recent trait models of regulation and the scaffolded development of competence and problems in childhood and adolescence.
The dilemma of ICD implant testing.	Ventricular fibrillation (VF) has been induced at implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implant to ensure reliable sensing, detection, and defibrillation. Despite its risks, the value was self-evident for early ICDs: failure of defibrillation was common, recipients had a high risk of ventricular tachycardia (VT) or VF, and the only therapy for rapid VT or VF was a shock. Today, failure of defibrillation is rare, the risk of VT/VF is lower in some recipients, antitachycardia pacing is applied for fast VT, and vulnerability testing permits assessment of defibrillation efficacy without inducing VF in most patients. This review reappraises ICD implant testing. At implant, defibrillation success is influenced by both predictable and unpredictable factors, including those related to the patient, ICD system, drugs, and complications. For left pectoral implants of high-output ICDs, the probability of passing a 10 J safety margin is approximately 95%, the probability that a maximum output shock will defibrillate is approximately 99%, and the incidence of system revision based on testing is < or = 5%. Bayes' Theorem predicts that implant testing identifies < or = 50% of patients at high risk for unsuccessful defibrillation. Most patients who fail implant criteria have false negative tests and may undergo unnecessary revision of their ICD systems. The first-shock success rate for spontaneous VT/VF ranges from 83% to 93%, lower than that for induced VF. Thus, shocks for spontaneous VT/VF fail for reasons that are not evaluated at implant. Whether system revision based on implant testing improves this success rate is unknown. The risks of implant testing include those related to VF and those related to shocks alone. The former may be due to circulatory arrest alone or the combination of circulatory arrest and shocks. Vulnerability testing reduces risks related to VF, but not those related to shocks. Mortality from implant testing probably is 0.1-0.2%. Overall, VF should be induced to assess sensing in approximately 5% of ICD recipients. Defibrillation or vulnerability testing is indicated in 20-40% of recipients who can be identified as having a higher-than-usual probability of an inadequate defibrillation safety margin based on patient-specific factors. However, implant testing is too risky in approximately 5% of recipients and may not be worth the risks in 10-30%. In 25-50% of ICD recipients, testing cannot be identified as either critical or contraindicated.
Levels of serum interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1beta, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and leptin and their correlation in depression.	To investigate the relationship between leptin and cytokines in depressed patients.
Quality of life of Chinese schizophrenia outpatients in Hong Kong: relationship to sociodemographic factors and symptomatology.	To explore the relationships between sociodemographic and clinical factors and quality of life (QOL) in a cohort of Chinese schizophrenia outpatients.
Sleep quality in advanced cancer patients.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the sleep quality of advanced cancer patients and its relationship with pain, depression, and hopelessness.
The development of a model of fatigue in neuromuscular disorders: a longitudinal study.	Severe fatigue is reported by the majority of patients with three relatively common types of neuromuscular disorders.
Consequences of childhood sexual abuse experiences on dental care.	Around 20% of female patients seeking dental care may have experienced childhood sexual abuse (CSA). Several similarities between abuse situations and dental treatment lead to dental fear. Since dental fear hampers oral health, the long-term effects of CSA on dental care and the specific factors that lead to increased stress during dental treatment have been investigated in women exposed to CSA.
Analysis of the conditional correlations from different genetic systems between the protein content and the appearance quality traits of indica rice.	A factorial mating design in two environments was conducted using 7 cytoplasmic male sterile lines (A) and 5 restorer lines (R) along with their F(1) (A x R) and F(2) populations. The unconditional and conditional analyses of genetic models and the corresponding statistic methods, including endospermic, cytoplasmic, and maternal plant genetic systems, were used to analyze the genetic relationships between protein content (PC) and the appearance quality traits of indica rice (Oryza sativa L.). The results from unconditional analysis indicated that PC was significantly correlated with the appearance quality traits of rice, except for the brown rice thickness (BRT). Only the genetic covariance between PC and the brown rice width (BRW) was positively correlative, whereas all the other pairwise traits were negatively correlative. The results from conditional analysis revealed that the weight of brown rice (WBR) or the amylose content (AC) could significantly affect the relationships between PC and the appearance quality traits of indica rice. The conditional analysis showed that WBR might negatively affect the relationships between PC and the brown rice length (BRL), BRW, or BRT through the genotype x environmental (GE) interaction effects, but positively affected the relationships between PC and the ratio of brown rice length to width (RLW) or the ratio of brown rice length to thickness (RLT). The amylase content could positively affect the relationships between PC and BRL, RLW, RLT through the cytoplasmic effects and maternal additive effects, but negatively affected the relationships between PC and BRW.
Relationship Between Differential Gene Expression and Heterosis During Ear Development in Maize (Zea mays L.).	Maize (Zea mays L.) is one of the most important crops because of the remarkable properties of its hybrid, which is responsible for the high commercial value of hybrid maize. The genetic basis of heterosis (hybrid vigor) is not well understood. A differential display technique was performed to identify genes with differential expression across twelve maize inbred lines and thirty-three hybrids during ear development. An incomplete diallel design was used to investigate the relationship between the global framework of differential gene expression and heterosis. It was found that the genes belonging to MONO pattern (i.e., genes expressed in both parental lines and in hybrid) was the highest in percentage among the total five patterns and illustrated that the properties of differentially expressed genes are not entirely responsible for heterosis. Furthermore, a larger number of differentially expressed genes in hybrid, which serves as a major reservoir for generating novel phenotypes that exhibit heterosis of certain agronomic traits during early development and differentiation of maize ear. Moreover, there were some silent genesin hybrids that are responsible for the arrest or abortion of spikelets and for the increase in kernels weight.
Genetic diversity of volatile components in Xinjiang Wild Apple (Malus sieversii).	To evaluate genetic relationships using qualitative and/or quantitative differentiation of volatile components in Xinjiang Wild Apple (Malus sieversii (Lebed.) Roem.) and to acquire basic data for the conservation and utilization of the species, aroma components in ripe fruit of M. sieversii obtained from 30 seedlings at Mohe, Gongliu County, Xinjiang Autonomic Region, China, and in ripe fruit of 4 M. pumila cultivars ('Ralls', 'Delicious', 'Golden Delicious', and 'Fuji') were analyzed using head space-solid phase microextraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The results indicated that the values of similarity coefficient concerning volatile types between the two species were in accordance with the evolution of M. pumila cultivars (forms), and that M. sieversii seedlings showed considerable genetic variations in these aspects: the total content of volatile components, the classes and contents of each compound classes, the segregation ratio, and content of main components. The results showed significant difference among seedlings and wide genetic diversity within the populations. Comparison of the volatile components in M. sieversii with those in M. pumila cultivars showed that the common compounds whose number were larger than five with the contents over 0.04 mg/L simultaneously between M. sieversii and M. pumila cultivars belonged to esters, alcohols, aldehydes or ketones. This suggests fundamental identity in main volatile components of M. sieversii and M. pumila cultivars. The results above sustained the conclusion "M. sieversii is probably the ancestor of M. pumila". However, there were 48 compounds present in M. pumila that were not detected in M. sieversii, including 6 character impact components (i.e., propyl acetate, (Z)-3-hexenal, 2-methyl-1-butanol acetate, pentyl acetate, 3-furanmethanol, and benzene acetaldehyde). This suggested that in the domestication of M. pumila, introgression of other apple species, except for M. sieversii, by interspecies hybridization was possible. There were 177 compounds in total belonging to 11 classes detected in 30 M. sieversii seedlings, including esters, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, acids, benzene ramifications, terpenes, heterocycles, hydrocarbon derivates, acetals, and lactones. Among them, acetals and lactones were not detected in M. pumila cultivars, 90 compounds were unique to M. sieversii, and 7 components (1-butanol, ethyl butanoate, 1-hexanol, ethyl hexanoate, 3-octen-1-ol, ethyl octanoate, and damascenone) belonged to character impact odors. Thus, the potential of M. sieversii in "utilization conservation" is enormous as a rare germplasm on genetic improvement of M. pumila cultivars.
Moderate drug use and delay discounting: a comparison of heavy, light, and never smokers.	Delay discounting was examined in light smokers (10 or fewer cigarettes per day) and compared with previously published delay discounting data for heavy and never smokers. Participants evaluated several hypothetical outcomes: money gains and loses ($10, $100, and $1,000), health gains and losses (durations of improved and impoverished health subjectively equivalent to $1,000), cigarette gains and losses (amounts subjectively equivalent to $1,000), and potentially real rewards ($10 and $100). Light smokers discounted money significantly more than never smokers, but light smokers did not differ from heavy smokers. The 3 groups did not statistically differ in discounting of health consequences. Similarly, the 2 smoking groups were not found to differ in discounting of cigarettes. Like heavy smokers, light smokers discounted cigarettes significantly more than money and health. Several significant, positive correlations were found between smoking rate and various discounting measures in the heavy smokers but not in the light smokers. Several previous findings were replicated, helping to validate the present results: the sign effect (greater discounting of gains than losses), the magnitude effect (greater discounting of smaller rewards), reliability of discounting measures over time, and the consistency of hypothetical and potentially real rewards. These data suggest that even moderate levels of drug use may be associated with high delay discounting levels.
West Nile virus: strategies for predicting municipal-level infection.	The appearance and spread of West Nile virus (WNv) in North America represent a recent example of how mosquito-borne diseases can develop in new settings. Understanding the epidemiological, biological, and geographical aspects of WNv is critical to developing a greater understanding of how newly emerging, migrating, or evolving vector-borne infectious disease can develop globally. To aid in the allocation of resources that mitigate future outbreaks and to better understand the geographic nature of WNv in the North American prairies, we employ spatial and nonspatial modeling methods to predict municipal-level risk of human WNv infection rates. We use data based on a combination of routinely collected electronic data sources. Our findings suggest general agreement between spatial and nonspatial approaches, and results are consistent with seroprevalence-based estimates. We suggest that spatial models based on administrative data can offer estimates of relative risk in human populations at less cost, and in a timelier manner than estimates based on serology specimens.
Quality of life in schizophrenia on conventional versus atypical antipsychotic medication: a comparative cross-sectional study.	Atypical antipsychotic drugs, with superior tolerability and possibly superior efficacy, were expected to give schizophrenia patients better quality of life (QOL) than conventional treatment. Research findings are equivocal.
Prevalence of depression and correlates of depressive symptoms for residents in the urban part of Jeju Island, Korea.	This study examined the prevalence of depression and depressive symptoms, and the correlates of depressive symptoms, and proposes some methods for reducing risk of depression in residents of the urban part of Jeju Island in Korea.
Friendship quality, body dissatisfaction, dieting and disordered eating in adolescent girls.	This study examined relationships between adolescent girls' body dissatisfaction and disordered eating, quality of same-sex peer relationships and beliefs about thinness in interpersonal relationships, before and after controlling for depression.
Is perfectionism related to pre-existing and future insomnia? A prospective study.	The purpose of this study was to examine the role of perfectionism to pre-existing and future insomnia.
Bullying among special education students with intellectual disabilities: differences in social adjustment and social skills.	Harassment and bullying among 186 students with intellectual disabilities, ages 12 to 21 years, in special education schools were examined. The differences between bullies and victims in terms of social adjustment and social skills were investigated. No prototypes characterizing differences in social skills were found between the three subgroups: victim, bully, and victim-bully. However, bullies and victim-bullies exhibited significantly higher levels of challenging behaviors, such as temper tantrums, unruly and quarrelsome behavior, and a tendency to lie and steal. Significant correlations were also found among actions as a bully, violent behavior, and hyperactivity. Being a victim was correlated with emotional and interpersonal problems.
Relational analysis of CpG islands methylation and gene expression in human lymphomas using possibilistic C-means clustering and modified cluster fuzzy density.	Heterogeneous genetic and epigenetic alterations are commonly found in human non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL). One such epigenetic alteration is aberrant methylation of gene promoter-related CpG islands, where hypermethylation frequently results in transcriptional inactivation of target genes, while a decrease or loss of promoter methylation (hypomethylation) is frequently associated with transcriptional activation. Discovering genes with these relationships in NHL or other types of cancers could lead to a better understanding of the pathobiology of these diseases. The simultaneous analysis of promoter methylation using Differential Methylation Hybridization (DMH) and its associated gene expression using Expressed CpG Island Sequence Tag (ECIST) microarrays generates a large volume of methylation-expression relational data. To analyze this data, we propose a set of algorithms based on fuzzy sets theory, in particular Possibilistic c-Means (PCM) and cluster fuzzy density. For each gene, these algorithms calculate measures of confidence of various methylation-expression relationships in each NHL subclass. Thus, these tools can be used as a means of high volume data exploration to better guide biological confirmation using independent molecular biology methods.
Brain correlates of right-handedness.	Recent development of neuroimaging techniques has opened new possibilities for the study of the relation between handedness and the brain functional architecture. Here we report fMRI measurements of dominant and non-dominant hand movement representation in 12 right-handed subjects using block design. We measured possible asymmetry in the total volume of activated neural tissue in the two hemispheres during simple and complex finger movements performed either with the right hand or with the left hand. Simple movements consisted in contraction/extension of the index finger and complex movements in successive finger-thumb opposition from little finger to index finger. A general predominance of left-hemisphere activation relative to right hemisphere activation was found. Increasing the complexity of the motor activity resulted in an enlargement of the volume of consistently activated areas and greater involvement of ipsilateral areas, especially in the left hemisphere. Movements of the dominant hand elicited large contralateral activation (larger than movements of the non-dominant hand) and relatively smaller ipsilateral activation. Movements of the non-dominant hand resulted in a more balanced pattern of activation in the two hemispheres, due to relatively greater ipsilateral activation. This suggests that the dominant (right) hand is controlled mainly by the contralateral (left) hemisphere, whereas the nondominant hand is controlled by both left and right hemispheres. This effect is especially apparent during execution of complex movements. The expansion of brain areas involved in motor control in the hemisphere contralateral to the dominant hand may provide neural substrate for higher efficiency and a greater motor skill repertoire of the preferred hand.
Incidence and correlates of Internet usage among adolescents in North Cyprus.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of Internet usage among adolescents in Northern Cyprus. A total of 686 adolescents (mean age of 14.4 years, range of 12-17 years) were recruited from elementary and high schools. Results showed that the Internet was used primarily by male students. Adolescents used the Internet generally for entertainment and communication. The quality of chat on the Internet was studied, and it was found that adolescents generally introduce themselves differently while chatting. Also, the type of games on the Internet and the correlation between playing these games and aggression was studied in this research. It was found that mostly violent games were played on the Internet and playing these games were related to anti-social aggression and aggression toward the self. Research findings indicated that 1.1% of the students who used the Internet were pathological Internet users. These pathological Internet users visited significantly more chat sites, mp3 sites, pornographic sites, and shopping sites than other users. Also, it was found that students' grade point average (GPA) decreased when pathological Internet usage increased.
Internet café addiction of Taiwanese adolescents.	With the recent vigorous development, the Internet has become a part of life. And the Internet café has become an emerging industry under this new wave of Internet heat. However, the Internet café has also brought about many unexpected social problems and negative effects on society in Taiwan. For example, Internet café addiction (or pathological use) is a particular phenomenon derived from Internet café in Taiwan. But currently there are just a few scholars who attend to this problem. This study focuses mainly on the phenomenon of Internet café addiction among adolescents in Taiwan, the Internet café patronage behavior, and the cause of this phenomenon. Result of a questionnaire survey indicate that a significant difference exists between male and female adolescent in the following two aspects: "the stay hours for each visit in Internet café" and "Internet café addiction scores." Males' stay hours in Internet café are longer than females', and males also get higher Internet café addiction scores than females. The results also indicate that participants' degree of self-esteem and support from their social network can account for 30% of variance of Internet café addiction. Further, the results also suggest that social support is positively related to Internet café addiction score, whereas a negative relationship between self-esteem and Internet café addiction score is observed.
Excessive computer game playing: evidence for addiction and aggression?	Computer games have become an ever-increasing part of many adolescents' day-to-day lives. Coupled with this phenomenon, reports of excessive gaming (computer game playing) denominated as "computer/video game addiction" have been discussed in the popular press as well as in recent scientific research. The aim of the present study was the investigation of the addictive potential of gaming as well as the relationship between excessive gaming and aggressive attitudes and behavior. A sample comprising of 7069 gamers answered two questionnaires online. Data revealed that 11.9% of participants (840 gamers) fulfilled diagnostic criteria of addiction concerning their gaming behavior, while there is only weak evidence for the assumption that aggressive behavior is interrelated with excessive gaming in general. Results of this study contribute to the assumption that also playing games without monetary reward meets criteria of addiction. Hence, an addictive potential of gaming should be taken into consideration regarding prevention and intervention.
Numerical correlation between nerve conduction velocity and compound nerve action potential of median nerve in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome and normal group.	Electrodiagnostic studies have a major role in the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). The parameters used in this regard include nerve conduction velocity (NCV) and compound nerve action potential (CNAP). In some individuals, recording sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) and as a result NCV is impossible. This study aims at determining the numerical correlation between CNAP and NCV calculated through SNAP METHODS: NCV and CNAP in 100 hands of 50 electrophysiologically and clinically asymptomatic individuals and 100 hands of 70 patients with CTS were surveyed. The correlation between NCV and CNAP was determined using independent t-test and regression model.
Linearity of cephalometric digitizers.	The present study aimed to develop a test procedure to diagnose and visualize errors in linearity of digitizing tablets. Errors of linearity are caused by the distortion of the x- and y-co-ordinates of the digitizing tablet. This results in a given object apparently having different dimensions when recorded on different locations of the digitizing surface. The test is performed by systematic recording of n equally spaced points from a calibrated test foil. Algorithms were developed to calculate the difference matrices DXji and DYji between expected and observed values of the co-ordinates. Three-dimensional mapping of the non-linearity of the x- and y-co-ordinates was performed by the UNIRAS-geopak, a 3-D surface representative system. The tested digitizers showed varying degrees of scaling errors, fields of non-linearity, and random noise. Most digitizers allow for correction of scaling by setting of switches in the control unit. A method is suggested for correction of non-linearities by use of the DXji and DYji matrices in the digitizing programme.
Sensory modality, temperament, and the development of sustained attention: a vigilance study in children and adults.	Applying optimal stimulation theory, the present study explored the development of sustained attention as a dynamic process. It examined the interaction of modality and temperament over time in children and adults. Second-grade children and college-aged adults performed auditory and visual vigilance tasks. Using the Carey temperament questionnaires (S. C. McDevitt & W. B. Carey, 1995), the authors classified participants according to temperament composites of reactivity and task orientation. In a preliminary study, tasks were equated across age and modality using d' matching procedures. In the main experiment, 48 children and 48 adults performed these calibrated tasks. The auditory task proved more difficult for both children and adults. Intermodal relations changed with age: Performance across modality was significantly correlated for children but not for adults. Although temperament did not significantly predict performance in adults, it did for children. The temperament effects observed in children--specifically in those with the composite of reactivity--occurred in connection with the auditory task and in a manner consistent with theoretical predictions derived from optimal stimulation theory.
Using multilevel analyses with sibling data to increase analytic power: an illustration and simulation study.	This study investigates the extent to which analytic power can be increased through the inclusion of siblings in a data set and the concomitant use of random coefficient multilevel models. Analyses of real-world data regarding the predictors of young adult alcohol use illustrate how parallel single-level analyses of a 1-child-per-family data set and multilevel analyses of a data set including all siblings in each family would be conducted. A simulation study, closely based on the illustrative analyses, compares the empirical power to detect main, moderation, and mediation effects under three conditions: (a) single-level analyses of 1-child-per-family data, (b) multilevel analyses of all-siblings data, and (c) single-level analyses of independent data with sample size equivalent to the all-siblings condition. Supplementary analyses are conducted to determine the conditions under which greater analytic power could be achieved with the addition of siblings to a data set than with the addition of a lesser number of independent individuals at equivalent cost.
Psychological and demographic correlates of early academic skill development among American Indian and Alaska Native youth: a growth modeling study.	Research regarding the development of early academic skills among American Indian and Alaska Native (AIAN) students has been very limited to date. Using a nationally representative sample of AIAN, Hispanic, African American, and White children at school entry, the authors used latent growth models to estimate the associations among poverty, low parental education, living in a rural location, as well as child attitudes toward learning and internalizing/externalizing behaviors, with mathematical and reading cognitive skill development across the 1st 4 years of school. Results indicate that AIAN children entered kindergarten with scores on both mathematical and reading cognitive tests that were comparable to their peers from other ethnic groups of color. Importantly, all children who entered kindergarten with lower cognitive skill scores also acquired skills more slowly over the next 4 years. Having a positive approach to learning at the start of kindergarten was associated with cognitive skill levels at school entry nearly 1 standard deviation above the population average. Results are discussed with reference to the shared early educational profiles observed between AIAN and other children of color. These findings provide a much-needed update regarding early academic development among AIAN children.
Well-being affects changes in perceptual speed in advanced old age: longitudinal evidence for a dynamic link.	This study examined competing hypotheses about dynamic cross-domain associations between perceptual speed and well-being in advanced old age. We applied the bivariate dual change score model (J. J. McArdle & F. Hamagami, 2001) to 13-year incomplete longitudinal data from the Berlin Aging Study (P. B. Baltes & K. U. Mayer, 1999; N=516, 70-103 years at T1, M=85 years). Reports of well-being were found to influence subsequent decline in perceptual speed (time lags of 2 years). No evidence was found for a directed effect in the other direction. None of the potential covariates examined (initial health constraints, personality, and social participation) accounted for these differential lead-lag associations. Our results suggest that well-being is not only a consequence of but also a source for successful aging. The discussion focuses on conceptual implications and methodological considerations.
Does the neighborhood context alter the link between youth's after-school time activities and developmental outcomes? A multilevel analysis.	This article examines links between different measures of after-school time activity participation (5 specific activities and breadth) on youth's developmental outcomes (anxiety/depression, delinquency, and substance use) over 6 years and whether these links are moderated by neighborhood-level variables. The sample (N=1,315) of 9- and 12-year-old youth was drawn from the Project on Human Development in Chicago Neighborhoods (PHDCN), a multilevel, longitudinal study of youth from 80 Chicago neighborhoods. Findings revealed that different types of activities and patterns of participation over time were associated with outcomes for youth and that, to some extent, these outcomes varied with neighborhood characteristics. In brief, sports participation was associated with fewer anxious/depressed symptoms, higher average delinquency scores, and increased substance use-both average scores and growth over time. Participation in the arts and student government were negatively associated with average substance use and attenuated increases in usage over time. Participation in community-based clubs was positively associated with youth's anxiety/depression in violent neighborhoods only, whereas church groups were protective against substance use in nonviolent neighborhoods. The direction of the influence of breadth of participation was nonlinear for delinquency such that delinquency scores were highest among youth who engaged in an average number of activities.
Relations between daily activities and adolescent mood: the role of autonomy.	This study explored the combined influences of daily activities and autonomy in activity engagement on adolescent daily positive and negative moods. Ecological momentary assessments (EMA) were used to obtain information about 8th- and 10th-grade students' (N = 517) mood, activities, and situation throughout the day. Participants responded to random prompts on the EMA device and, when prompted, rated mood adjectives and reported on their current activity and perceived autonomy in activity engagement. Mixed-effects regression models examined changes in mood across specific activity categories. Positive mood significantly improved when engaging in numerous activities; negative mood improved during social activities as well as "party" and "hanging out" events but was fairly consistent across other activities. Stronger mood-activity relations were found after controlling for autonomy in activity engagement.
Trait and social influences in the links among adolescent attachment, depressive symptoms, and coping.	Attachment insecurity and maladaptive coping are associated with depression in adolescence; however, it is unclear whether these links primarily reflect stable individual differences among teens (trait influences), experiential differences in their interactions with relationship partners (social influences) or both. In this study, teens (ages 14-18; N = 150) completed questionnaires to assess their attachment security, depressive symptoms, and coping strategies with different attachment figures. Measures were completed three times, based on experiences with a maternal figure, paternal figure, and closest peer. Generalizability analyses were used to separate each construct into trait and social influence components. Next, multivariate g correlations were computed to examine the correlations among the constructs for the trait component as well as the social component. Correlation magnitudes differed depending on whether the trait or social influence components were examined.
Family accommodation in pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder.	Despite the importance of the family in the treatment of pediatric obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), relatively little empirical attention has been directed to family accommodation of symptoms. This study examined the relations among family accommodation, OCD symptom severity, functional impairment, and internalizing and externalizing behavior problems in a sample of 57 clinic-referred youth 7 to 17 years old (M = 12.99 +/- 2.54) with OCD. Family accommodation was a frequent event across families. Family accommodation was positively related to symptom severity, parent-rated functional impairment (but not child-rated impairment), and externalizing and internalizing behavior problems. Family accommodation mediated the relation between symptom severity and parent-rated functional impairment.
Quality of life in youth with Tourette's syndrome and chronic tic disorder.	This study sought to examine quality of life (QoL) in clinic-referred children and adolescents (n = 59, M age = 11.4+/-2.6 years) with a chronic tic disorder. The QoL scores for tic patients were lower than for healthy controls but higher than for the psychiatric sample on the majority of domains. Children's self-reported QoL scores and a measure of tic severity were moderately and inversely correlated. Parent reports of their child's QoL were weakly related to tic severity. Correlations between parent and child ratings of QoL for children ages 8 to 11 years were generally higher than those for youth ages 12 to 17 years. Finally, externalizing behavior moderated the relations between tic severity and parent-rated QoL, such that tic severity was significantly associated with parent-rated QoL for children with below average externalizing symptoms but not for children 3with above average externalizing symptoms.
Sexual assault disclosure in relation to adolescent mental health: results from the National Survey of Adolescents.	Child sexual assault is a risk factor for a wide range of emotional and behavioral problems. Little is known about mental health functioning in relation to victims' decisions to tell someone (or not) about their assault. This study used data from a nationally representative sample of 4,023 adolescents to examine the relation between sexual assault disclosure characteristics and mental health outcomes. Results indicated that youth who disclosed the assault to someone within 1 month were at reduced risk for current major depressive episode (MDE) and delinquency. No relation was found between disclosure latency and risk for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or substance use problems. Notably, disclosure to mothers was associated with significantly reduced risk for current PTSD and delinquency.
Two-day radial-arm water maze learning and memory task; robust resolution of amyloid-related memory deficits in transgenic mice.	The radial arm water maze (RAWM) contains six swim paths (arms) extending out of an open central area, with an escape platform located at the end of one arm (the goal arm). The goal arm location remains constant for a given mouse. On day 1, mice are trained for 15 trials (spaced over 3 h), with trials alternating between visible and hidden platform. On day 2, mice are trained for 15 trials with the hidden platform. Entry into an incorrect arm is scored as an error. The RAWM has the spatial complexity and performance measurement simplicity of the dry radial arm maze combined with the rapid learning and strong motivation observed in the Morris water maze without requiring foot shock or food deprivation as motivating factors. With two sessions each day, 16 mice can be tested over 2 days.
TPD52 and NFKB1 gene expression levels correlate with G2 chromosomal radiosensitivity in lymphocytes of women with and at risk of hereditary breast cancer.	To evaluate a transcriptomic approach to identify healthy women at increased risk of breast cancer due to G2-radiosensitivity and look at transcripts that are differentially expressed between individuals.
Exploratory spatial analysis of social and environmental factors associated with the incidence of Ross River virus in Brisbane, Australia.	We used geographic information systems and a spatial analysis approach to explore the pattern of Ross River virus (RRV) incidence in Brisbane, Australia. Climate, vegetation and socioeconomic data in 2001 were obtained from the Australian Bureau of Meteorology, the Brisbane City Council and the Australian Bureau of Statistics, respectively. Information on the RRV cases was obtained from the Queensland Department of Health. Spatial and multiple negative binomial regression models were used to identify the socioeconomic and environmental determinants of RRV transmission. The results show that RRV activity was primarily concentrated in the northeastern, northwestern, and southeastern regions in Brisbane. Multiple negative binomial regression models showed that the spatial pattern of RRV disease in Brisbane seemed to be determined by a combination of local ecologic, socioeconomic, and environmental factors.
Model of analysis in two halves for semantic fluency tasks]	Semantic verbal fluency (SVF) tasks involve the activation of language, semantic memory, working memory and the executive functions. The second half of the test increases the demands on working memory and search for lexical items, which can make it more difficult than the first half.
Visual toxicity following intra-arterial chemotherapy with hydroxyethyl-CNU in patients with malignant gliomas. A prospective study with statistical analysis.	We studied the effects of intra-arterial chemotherapy (IAC) with a new nitrosourea (hydroxyethyl-chloroethyl nitrosourea: HeCNU) on the visual system of 68 patients with malignant gliomas. The intra-arterial chemotherapy was given as a complementary treatment of glioma after surgery (19 patients), after tumor recurrence (28 patients) and as the preliminary treatment before radiotherapy (21 patients). Eleven patients (16%) suffered a visual complication after two or more courses of chemotherapy. The main visual symptoms included mild to major decrease of visual acuity and in some cases ocular pain, palpebral edema and conjunctival injection. The delay in onset of ocular symptoms from the last course of IAC varied from 1 week to 9 months. From ophthalmoscopic findings, visual field testing and fluorescein angiography, the visual symptoms presented by our patients could be related to ischemic optic neuropathy or retinal vasculopathy. None of the patients had hypertension, diabetes, cardiopathy or hematological disease. Statistical analysis failed to demonstrate a relationship between the occurrence of visual toxicity and patient age, number of courses of HeCNU, the vascular axis treated, total systemic dose or dose by carotid artery, suggesting a possible specific sensitivity of some patients to chemotherapy. The pathophysiology and the therapeutic implications of this visual toxicity are discussed.
Tear characteristics of the VDU operator.	The volume and stability of the tear film was measured in a small group of Visual Display Unit (VDU) operators and a non-VDU operating group. Using noninvasive methods of tear measurement, we found no difference in precorneal tear film stability between the two groups; however, the tear volume of the VDU users was greater than in the non-VDU operating group. No relation was found to exist between precorneal tear film stability and tear volume.
Lower extremity motor function and disability in mild cognitive impairment.	Recent findings suggest that lower extremity motor dysfunction may be a feature of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), but little is known about the nature and significance of lower extremity motor dysfunction in MCI. The aim of this study was to examine the extent to which MCI is associated with impaired gait, balance, and strength and to examine the relation of lower extremity function to disability among persons with MCI in the Rush Memory and Aging Project, a clinical-pathologic study of common chronic conditions of old age. In a series of analyses adjusted for age, sex, and education, individuals with MCI exhibited more impaired gait and balance than individuals without cognitive impairment. Because vascular factors can contribute to lower extremity motor dysfunction, the authors repeated the initial analyses including terms for vascular risk factors and vascular disease, and the associations between MCI and lower extremity motor dysfunction persisted. Moreover, among those with MCI, impairments in gait and balance were associated with an increased likelihood of disability. These findings suggest that lower extremity motor dysfunction is common and contributes to disability in MCI, but lower extremity motor dysfunction in MCI does not appear to be explained by the vascular factors examined in this study.
Loss of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 in the prefrontal cortex is correlated with cognitive decline in Alzheimer disease.	Several lines of evidence suggest that the glutamatergic system is severely impaired in Alzheimer disease (AD). Here, we assessed the status of glutamatergic terminals in AD using the first available specific markers, the vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 and VGLUT2. We quantified VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 in the prefrontal dorsolateral cortex (Brodmann area 9) of controls and AD patients using specific antiserums. A dramatic decrease in VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 was observed in AD using Western blot. Similar decreases were observed in an independent group of subjects using immunoautoradiography. The VGLUT1 reduction was highly correlated with the degree of cognitive impairment, assessed with the clinical dementia rating (CDR) score. A significant albeit weaker correlation was also observed with VGLUT2. These findings provide evidence indicating that glutamatergic systems are severely impaired in the A9 region of AD patients and that this impairment is strongly correlated with the progression of cognitive decline. Our results suggest that VGLUT1 expression in the prefrontal cortex could be used as a valuable neurochemical marker of dementia in AD.
The correlation of homocysteine-thiolactonase activity of the paraoxonase (PON1) protein with coronary heart disease status.	Homocysteine (Hcy)-thiolactonase (HTase) activity of the paraoxonase-1 (PON1) protein detoxifies Hcythiolactone in human blood and could thus delay the development of atherosclerosis. We investigated a hypothesis that HTase activity is associated with coronary heart disease. We studied HTase activities and PON1 genotypes in a group of 475 subjects, 42.5% of whom were healthy and 57.5% had coronary heart disease (CHD). We found that HTase activity was positively correlated with total cholesterol (r=0.254, P<0.0001), LDL cholesterol (0.149, P=0.016), ApoB (r=0.167, P=0.006), ApoA1 (0.140, P=0.023), and HDL cholesterol (0.184, P=0.002) in a group of CHD cases (n=270) but not in controls (n=202). Mean HTase activity was significantly higher in CHD cases than in controls (4.57 units vs. 3.30 units, P <10(-5)). The frequencies of the PON1-192 genotypes in CHD cases were similar to those in controls. HTase activity was not different between patients receiving statins and those not treated with statins. Multiple regression analysis shows that CHD status, PON1 genotype, and total cholesterol are determinants of HTase activity in humans. Our results suggest that HTase activity of the PON 1 protein is a predictor of CHD.
Smoking differences between university faculties in Tartu, Estonia, and Oulu, Finland, after the disruption of communism.	To provide information on smoking differences between university faculties.
Testing the double-deficit hypothesis in an adult sample.	The double-deficit hypothesis of dyslexia posits that reading deficits are more severe in individuals with weaknesses in phonological awareness and rapid naming than in individuals with deficits in only one of these reading composite skills. In this study, the hypothesis was tested in an adult sample as a model of reading achievement. Participants were parents of children referred for evaluation of reading difficulties. Approximately half of all participants reported difficulty learning to read in childhood and a small subset demonstrated ongoing weaknesses in reading. Structural equation modeling results suggest that the double-deficit hypothesis is an accurate model for understanding adult reading achievement. Better reading achievement was associated with better phonological awareness and faster rapid automatized naming in adults. Posthoc analyses indicated that individuals with double deficits had significantly lower reading achievement than individuals with single deficits or no deficits.
The correlation comparison of vertebral axial rotation relative to curvature and torsion in scoliosis by simplified 3D spine model.	This paper reports a study on correlation comparison of the vertebral axial rotation relative to curvature and torsion of scoliotic spine. The goal of this study is to understand whether the vertebral axial rotation is more correlated to the curvature or to the torsion of the scoliosis spinal deformity. For this purpose, the simplified 3D spine models are constructed on the randomly chosen images of scoliosis patients. The 3D spine model is based on two orthogonal spinal radiographic images taken from coronal and sagittal planes. Superimposed on these two images, the 3D Bezier curves are fitted interactively onto the center of the spine on both coronal and sagittal images. Upon the 3D Bezier Curve fitting, a series of simplified 3D vertebrae are implemented onto the 3D Bezier Curve proportional in size to its axis. The curvature and torsion then are obtained by difference quotients algorithm. In determining the vertebral axial rotation, the measurements are conducted directly on the coronal spine images. The lateral margins and centers of pedicles are used as landmarks for the rotation calculation. The correlation coefficients are calculated from both vertebral axial rotation relative to the curvature and to the torsion found on each vertebra. The strength of correlations from both cases is compared in the table.
Rejection of artifact sources in magnetoencephalogram background activity using independent component analysis.	The aim of this pilot study was to assess the usefulness of independent component analysis (ICA) to detect cardiac artifacts and power line interferences in magnetoencephalogram (MEG) recordings. We recorded MEG signals from six subjects with a 148-channel whole-head magnetometer (MAGNES 2500 WH, 4D Neuroimaging). Epochs of 50 s with power line noise, cardiac, and ocular artifacts were selected for analysis. We applied a statistical criterion to determine the number of sources, and a robust ICA algorithm to decompose the MEG epochs. Skewness, kurtosis, and a spectral metric were used to mark the studied artifacts. We found that the power line interference could be easily detected by its frequency characteristics. Moreover, skewness outperformed kurtosis when identifying the cardiac artifact.
Intracranial pressure variation associated with changes in end-tidal CO2.	Maintaining intracranial pressure (ICP) below 20-25 mmHg is an important clinical goal in the treatment of patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). It is well known that the partial pressure of arterial CO2 (PaCO2) can affect cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, and therefore ICP. The end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) is usually monitored by clinicians as a proxy for PaCO2. We show examples where subclinical fluctuations in ETCO2 are associated with clinically significant fluctuations in ICR. We estimated ICP from past and present values of ETCO2 with a linear estimator. The variance of the ICP residuals was 37 percent of the variance of the ICP signal at frequencies above 0.33 mHz. We suggest that a large proportion of clinically significant ICP fluctuations could be eliminated or reduced if the patients ventilation and CO2 levels were more tightly regulated.
LF/(LF+HF) index in ventricular repolarization variability correlated and uncorrelated with heart rate variability.	The purpose of this study, was to asses whether LF/(LF+HF) obtained from ventricular repolarization variability (VRV) reflects the state of sympathovagal balance. The VRV time series and heart rate variability (HRV) time series from seventy two electrocardiogram (ECG) records in four different autonomic nervous system (ANS) profiles (athletes, cardiac transplant patient, heart failure patients and normal subjects) were extracted. A dynamic linear parametric model was applied to separate the VRV in two parts, VRV correlated with HRV (VRV(r)) and VRV uncorrelated with HRV (VRV(u)). Spectral indices were obtained from HRV, VRV, VRV(u) and VRV(u) time series. Changes of these indicators from rest to tilt position were analyzed. Results showed that: i) only LF/(LF+HF) from HRV time series increases significantly from rest to tilt in all ANS profiles, this information could not be retrieved in the other three series (VRV, VRV (u) and VRV(u)) ii) LF/(LF+HF) index in HRV series are significantly different between normal subjects and heart failure patients, while cardiac transplant patients show a low coherence between HRV and VRV power spectra and iii) HF rhythm in VRV series seem to be related to the mechanical effect of respiration.
A model-based study of relationship between timing of second heart sound and systolic blood pressure.	The onset of second heart sound is triggered by the closure of aortic valve due to the interaction of left ventricle and arterial system. Noninvasive experiments found that RS(2) defined by the time delay from the peak of ECG R wave to the onset of the second heart sound had a close inverse correlation with arterial systolic blood pressure. However, no theoretical study has been carried out to investigate the underline connections between them. A modified model of heart-arterial system is proposed in the present study. In this model the heart is described as a pressure source depending on time, ventricular volume, outflow, and heart rate, and the arterial system as a nonlinear system incorporating a pressure-dependent compliance. Simulation results show that the modified model is able to reflect the cardiovascular function qualitatively. The results also demonstrate that RS(2) is inversely correlated with aortic blood pressure under the effect of changing peripheral resistance, heart rate and contractility. The present study gives insight into the significant functional relations between the parameters characterizing the cardiovascular system and hemodynamics characteristics and provides an interpretation of the experimental observation on the relationship between RS(2) and aortic blood pressure.
Information flow to assess cardiorespiratory interactions in patients on weaning trials.	Nonlinear processes of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) can produce breath-to-breath variability in the pattern of breathing. In order to provide assess to these nonlinear processes, nonlinear statistical dependencies between heart rate variability and respiratory pattern variability are analyzed. In this way, auto-mutual information and cross-mutual information concepts are applied. This information flow analysis is presented as a short-term non linear analysis method to investigate the information flow interactions in patients on weaning trials. 78 patients from mechanical ventilation were studied: Group A of 28 patients that failed to maintain spontaneous breathing and were reconnected; Group B of 50 patients with successful trials. The results show lower complexity with an increase of information flow in group A than in group B. Furthermore, a more (weakly) coupled nonlinear oscillator behavior is observed in the series of group A than in B.
Myocardial electrical impedance correlates with ischemic ECG ST-segment changes in humans.	Electrocardiogram (ECG) ST-segment changes are commonly used to diagnose myocardial ischemia. In this study we compared ST-segment changes with changes in myocardial electrical impedance (MEI)--an electrical parameter that also responses to ischemia--during off-pump coronary artery bypass graft (OPCABG) surgery of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LADa). We recorded MEI and ST-segment changes in eight patients during OPCABG surgery and compared the change in MEI that occurred when the LADa was occluded just prior to the beginning of the revascularization procedure with the ST-segment changes during the same period. Myocardial electrical impedance changes were directly and significantly correlated with ST-segment changes in our patient population. Our results indicate that MEI is equivalent to ST-segment changes as a measure of myocardial ischemia.
A fully automatic method for ocular artifact suppression from EEG data using wavelet transform and independent component analysis.	Contamination of electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings with different kinds of artifacts is the main obstacle to the analysis of EEG data. Independent component analysis (ICA) is a general accepted tool for isolating artifactual components. One major challenge to artifact removal using ICA is the automatic identification of the artifactual components. However there is still little consensus on criteria for automatic rejection of undesired components. In this paper we present a new identification procedure based on an efficient combination of statistical and wavelet-based measures for ocular artifact suppression. The results on 420 4-s EEG epochs indicate that the artifact components can be identified correctly with 96.4%
Real-time ocular artifacts suppression from EEG signals using an unsupervised adaptive blind source separation.	Independent component analysis (ICA) has been shown to be a powerful tool for artifactual suppression from electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings. However, the real-time application of this method for artifact rejection has not been considered so far. This article presents a method based on an unsupervised, self-normalizing, adaptive learning algorithm for on-line blind source separation. Simulation results are provided to show the validity and effectiveness of the technique with different distributions. The results from real-data demonstrate that the proposed scheme removes perfectly eye blink and eye movement artifacts from the EEG signals and is suitable for use during on-line EEG monitoring such as EEG-based brain computer interface.
Blinking artifact removal in cognitive EEG data using ICA.	Eye blinking artifacts present serious problems for electroencephalographic (EEG) interpretation and analysis. In this study, we apply independent component analysis (ICA) to eye blinking artifact removal from cognitive EEG recordings. Due to the specific design of the experiment, the eye blinks almost always co-occur with the event-related potentials (ERP), which creates problems for ICA. We introduced another data set of spontaneous blink and combined it with single-trial ERP data. Our results show that ICA on the combined data set gives separation that makes more sense and makes it easier for EEG interpretation and analysis.
Association between pathways in regulatory networks.	During cell progression from one state to another, such as transformation from benign to malignant conditions, cells undergo changes in gene regulation. To reveal state-dependent circuitries in human regulatory networks, we employed drafts of normal and malignant cell networks. Using these condition specific networks, gene profiles and annotated pathways we studied: a) the capacity to separate samples or cell states based on the collective expression of all the genes in each pathway rather than individual genes, b) the degree of regulatory network connectivity within and between pathways. Distinct cell types reveal notable differences in transcriptional activity in numerous pathways. On the other hand, in datasets from breast cancer patients with variable outcome the capacity of single pathway expression signatures to predict disease outcome is very limited, though this can be somewhat improved by combining multiple pathways. Remarkable connectivity between pathways on the transcriptional regulatory level revealed a non-modular network structure. Overall, network blueprints enable us to quantify the degree of interaction between condition specific co-regulated pathways. This can contribute to understanding deregulated processes associated with cancer.
Joint optimization of spatial registration and histogram compensation for microscopic images.	An iterative registration algorithm, the Lucas-Kanade algorithm, is combined with the histogram transformation to jointly optimize the spatial registration and the histogram compensation. Based on a simple regression model, a nonparametric estimator, the empirical conditional mean, is used for the histogram transformation function. The proposed algorithm provides a good performance in registering microscopic images that have different exposure or histogram properties, and can easily adopt other histogram compensation schemes and variations of the Lucas-Kanade algorithms due to its implicit flexibility. Joint registration with a third-order polynomial warp and compensation is conducted for microscopic images that have different magnifications.
Single trial method for brain-computer interface.	Electroencephalogram (EEG) related to fast eye movement (saccade), has been the subject of application oriented research by our group toward developing a brain-computer interface (BCI). Our goal is to develop novel BCI based on eye movements system employing EEG signals online. Most of the analysis of the saccade-related EEG data has been performed using ensemble averaging approaches. However, ensemble averaging is not suitable for BCI. In order to process raw EEG data in real time, we performed saccade-related EEG experiments and processed data by using the non-conventional fast ICA with reference signal (FICAR). The FICAR algorithm can extract desired independent components (IC) which have strong correlation against a reference signal. Visually guided saccade tasks and auditory guided saccade tasks were performed and the EEG signal generated in the saccade was recorded. The EEG processing was performed in three stages: PCA preprocessing and noise reduction, extraction of the desired IC using Wiener filter with reference signal, and post-processing using higher order statistics fast ICA based on maximization of kurtosis. Form the experimental results and analysis we found that using FICAR it is possible to extract form raw EEG data the saccade-related ICs and to predict saccade in advance by about 10 [ms] before real movements of eyes occurs. For single trail EEG data we have successfully extracted the desire ICs with recognition rate about 70%. In next steps, saccade-related EEG signals and saccade-related ICs in visually and auditory guided saccade task are compared in the point of the latency between starting time of a saccade and time when a saccade-related EEG signal or an IC has maximum value and in the point of the peak scale where a saccade-related EEG signal or an IC has maximum value. As results, peak time when saccade-related ICs have maximum amplitude is earlier than peak time when saccade-related EEG signals have maximum amplitude. This is very important advantage for developing our BCI. However, S/N ratio in being processed by FICAR is not improved comparing S/N ratio in being processed by ensemble averaging.
Observations related to the Salmonella EU layer baseline survey in the United Kingdom: follow-up of positive flocks and sensitivity issues.	A follow-on study was carried out on 23 holdings identified as Salmonella positive in the 2004/2005 European Union (EU) baseline survey of Salmonella in laying hens. Eleven of 13 cage and 4/7 floor houses remained positive for Salmonella when the new flock was tested, and from 10/13 cage and 3/7 floor houses a Salmonella of the same serovar/phage type as found in the EU survey was isolated. There was a high correlation between the level of contamination in the houses at the time of the EU survey and in the follow-on flock. On seven occasions the house identified as positive in the EU survey was sampled after cleaning and disinfection but before a new flock was placed, and in all of them Salmonella could be isolated from the houses. The observed number of infected houses in infected holdings suggests that the holding-level prevalence in the United Kingdom would be about 21% higher than the results obtained in the EU survey.
Unruptured intracranial aneurysms: their illusive natural history and why subgroup statistics cannot provide normative criteria for clinical decisions or selection criteria for a randomized trial.	There is currently no evidence that treatment of unruptured aneurysms is beneficial. Confronted with the uncertainty, many clinicians are attracted by an individual calculus of risks using numbers extracted from subgroup statistics of observational studies or natural history data. The so-called natural history of unruptured aneurysms refers to a purely man-made ratio of events divided by the number of untreated patients identified by imaging, a ratio heavily influenced by referral patterns and arbitrary clinical decisions. Available studies lacked prespecified hypotheses, exposing all analyses to sampling error and bias, and sample sizes were too small to provide reliable subgroup statistics. Far from being "natural kinds" of aneurysms, subgroups were post-hoc creations. Resulting data-driven statistics can only be exploratory, the error too uncontrollable to serve for clinical decisions. A randomized trial is in order, but selection according to fixed size criteria is ill-advised, given the imprecision of imaging, the influence of other factors such as location, previous history, multiplicity of lesions, risks of treatment, age and the danger of arbitrarily excluding from a long trial a large segment of the population with aneurysms for whom the research question is most pertinent.
Relation of left ventricular mass and geometry to morbidity and mortality in uncomplicated essential hypertension.	To assess the prognostic significance of left ventricular mass and geometry in initially healthy persons with essential hypertension.
Failure of physicians to recognize functional disability in ambulatory patients.	To assess the ability of internists to identify functional disabilities reported by their patients.
The relationship between hypertensive pregnant women's hypertension self-care knowledge and hypertension control at a reference in Harare, Zimbabwe.	To determine hypertensive self-care knowledge possessed by outpatient pregnant hypertensive women and to establish the relationship between their knowledge and their hypertension control.
Atrial natriuretic peptide in dialysis patients under various conditions of volume homeostasis.	Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and plasma renin activity (PRA) were studied in 19 patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) under haemodialysis (HD). On the basis of clinical findings, patients were divided into three groups: group A, 6 patients, of mean age 41 +/- 15 years, without heart failure and in need of ultrafiltration (658 +/- 282 ml h-1); group B, 6 patients, of mean age 54 +/- 15 years, without heart failure under isovolaemic HD; group C, 7 patients, of mean age 60 +/- 3 years, with heart failure (NYHA III-IV) and in need of ultrafiltration (607 +/- 120 ml h-1). The highest predialysis ANP levels were found in group C (1534 +/- 471 pg ml-1) followed by group A (476 +/- 168 pg ml-1) and group B (236 +/- 138 pg ml-1) (normal range 62 +/- 27 pg ml-1). Systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate did not correlate with ANP levels in either of the groups. However, iso-osmotic reduction of the body weight by ultrafiltration was correlated with decreasing ANP levels during HD (for groups A and C, r = 0.88 and 0.98, respectively). Isovolaemic HD did not alter ANP concentrations (group B). All patients received a volume bolus at the end of HD, and they responded with an instant increase in ANP concentration, which was most pronounced in patients with concomitant heart failure. PRA was not significantly correlated with ANP levels during HD. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that there is a sensitive response of ANP levels to changes in body fluid status in ESRD.
Cardiac catecholamine metabolism in copper-deficient rats.	After parturition, Sprague-Dawley dams were fed diets containing either 0.6 (-Cu) or 6 (+Cu) mg of copper/kg of diet. Pups were weaned either to the diet of their dam or to the diet fed to dams in the other treatment group in a crossover design. At 7 wk of age, Cu-deficient rats were characterized by low tissue Cu and an enlarged heart with increased levels of dopamine (DA) and decreased levels of norepinephrine (NE). These changes resulting from Cu deficiency were independent of gender. In vivo synthesis of cardiac NE from DA in Cu-adequate rats was significantly greater than in Cu-deficient rats. Turnover of cardiac NE was estimated from the temporal change in the specific activity of [3H]NE. Fractional turnover rates (percentage per hour) of cardiac NE were similar in both dietary groups, although the cardiac turnover of NE (nanograms per hour) was 1.4-fold higher in Cu-adequate rats than in Cu-deficient rats. Repletion of Cu-deficient rats with dietary Cu increased the total amount of cardiac NE to 78 and 93% of control values after 1 and 2 d, respectively. Significant changes in the quantities of NE and DA in the heart of rats whose intake of Cu was restricted from birth were first detected at 4 wk of age, but cardiac hypertrophy was not observed until 5 wk of age. The data support the proposal that the altered levels of DA and NE in the heart of Cu-deficient rats are primarily the result of decreased activity of DA-B-monooxygenase and demonstrate that Cu supplementation rapidly repletes cardiac NE in Cu-deficient rats. Moreover, changes in the concentrations of NE and DA in the heart precede and may contribute to the development of cardiac hypertrophy.
Effect of long-term fish oil supplementation on vitamin E status and lipid peroxidation in women.	Fifteen young (22-35 y) and 10 older (51-71 y) women received six capsules of fish oil (Pro-Mega)/d, providing a total of 1,680 mg eicosapentaenoic (EPA), 720 mg docosahexaenoic (DHA), 600 mg other fatty acids, and 6 IU vitamin E. Blood was collected before and after 1, 2 and 3 mo of supplementation. Compliance was confirmed by the significant increase in plasma EPA and DHA in all women. Older women had a significantly higher increase in EPA and DHA than did young women (10-fold increases in EPA and 2.5-fold increases in DHA vs. 8-fold in EPA and 2-fold in DHA for older and young women, respectively). The decrease in the arachidonic acid:EPA ratio was more dramatic in the older women. Plasma total triglycerides (TG) decreased significantly, and the ratio of polyunsaturated fatty acids to saturated fatty acids was significantly (P less than 0.01) increased. Plasma vitamin E levels did not change significantly after supplementation; however, after 3 mo of supplementation by young women, plasma vitamin E was significantly lower than after 1 mo. The vitamin E: TG ratio was significantly increased and vitamin E:(EPA + DHA) significantly decreased. All women showed a significant increase in plasma lipid peroxide through mo 2 of supplementation. After 2 mo, older women had significantly higher lipid peroxide levels than young women. The lipid peroxide:TG ratio, which declined by mo 3, was still significantly higher than baseline. These data indicate that although long-term fish oil supplementation may be beneficial in reducing plasma total TG, susceptibility of plasma lipids to free radical attack is potentiated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Disagreement between subjective and actigraphic measures of sleep duration in a population-based study of elderly persons.	Sleep duration is an important concept in epidemiological studies. It characterizes a night's sleep or a person's sleep pattern, and is associated with numerous health outcomes. In most large studies, sleep duration is assessed with questionnaires or sleep diaries. As an alternative, actigraphy may be used, as it objectively measures sleep parameters and is feasible in large studies. However, actigraphy and sleep diaries may not measure exactly the same phenomenon. Our study aims to determine disagreement between actigraphic and diary estimates of sleep duration, and to investigate possible determinants of this disagreement. This investigation was embedded in the population-based Rotterdam Study. The study population consisted of 969 community-dwelling participants aged 57-97 years. Participants wore an actigraph and kept a sleep diary for, on average, six consecutive nights. Both measures were used to determine total sleep time (TST). In 34% of the participants, the estimated TST in the sleep diaries deviated more than 1 h from actigraphically measured TST. The level of disagreement between diary and actigraphic measures decreased with subjective and actigraphic measures of sleep quality, and increased with male gender, poor cognitive function and functional disability. Actigraphically measured poor sleep was often accompanied by longer subjective estimates of TST, whereas subjectively poor sleepers tended to report shorter TST in their diaries than was measured with actigraphy. We recommend, whenever possible, to use multiple measures of sleep duration, to perform analyses with both, and to examine the consistency of the results over assessment methods.
Peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) of Malaysian children.	Prediction equations for peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) of Malay, Chinese and Indian children were obtained by analysing 1020 PEFR recordings of children free of respiratory symptoms and illnesses. Boys had significantly higher PEFR than girls. For both sexes the highest levels of PEFR were observed in Malays and the lowest in Indians. The differences between Malay and Chinese boys were not statistically significant but the levels of PEFR for Malay and Chinese boys were significantly higher than those for Indian boys. In girls the differences among the ethnic groups were not statistically significant. Although ethnic differences were observed in boys these differences might not be clinically important. A common prediction equation for each sex should be both practical and accurate. When compared with predicted levels for white American and Australian children the predicted levels of PEFR of Malaysian children were found to be lower; these differences could be clinically important and the use of standards for Western children when assessing Malaysian children might not be appropriate.
Preoperative alterations in correlation properties and complexity of R-R interval dynamics predict the risk of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with preserved left ventricular function.	We evaluated whether there are constant preoperative alterations in nonlinear R-R interval dynamics that associate with the risk of postoperative atrial fibrillation in patients with preserved left ventricular function.
Consistent impaired verbal memory in PTSD: a meta-analysis.	Qualitative review papers have indicated that verbal memory impairment is found to be the most consistent cognitive impairment related to PTSD. These review papers have used qualitative methods to describe the effects, and consequently they have not been able to estimate the strength of the memory-PTSD association.
Interactions between divided attention and working-memory load in patients with severe traumatic brain injury.	The aim of this study was to assess the relationships between divided-attention deficits and working-memory limitations after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). Severe TBI patients (n = 43) and controls were given a n-back task of three different load levels, which was performed as a single and a dual task. Patients demonstrated, as expected, a difficulty in dual-task processing and an increased susceptibility to high working-memory load, but dual-task performance and working-memory load did not interact as expected. These results are in accordance with recent findings suggesting that dual-task performance and other working-memory functions represent dissociable although interrelated abilities.
Energy balance during backpacking.	Energy expenditure and energy intake were determined in three subjects during a 160-kilometer backpacking trip. Prior to the trip, heart rate and oxygen consumption during treadmill walking while carrying a backpack were measured. Subjects recorded heart rate during hiking. Heart rate was used to estimate energy expenditure based on the heart rate : oxygen consumption relationship (Heart Rate Method). Expenditure was also estimated from distance walked and elevation gained (Terrain Method). Subjects recorded food consumption, and were weighed upon finishing the hike. Mean heart rate during hiking was 105 +/- 12 beats per minute. According to the Heart Rate Method, net expenditure averaged 3410 +/- 955 kilocalories on days 1 - 4, and 2586 +/- 974 kilocalories on day 5. Net expenditure from the Terrain Method was approximately 28 % lower. Gross expenditure, using the Heart Rate Method, averaged 4928 +/- 1050 kilocalories on days 1 - 4, and 3550 +/- 1052 kilocalories on day 5. Energy intake averaged 2134 +/- 625 kilocalories on days 1 - 4, and 1117 +/- 320 kilocalories on day 5. Expected weight loss due to the caloric deficit was 1.8 +/- 0.4 kilograms, and actual weight loss was 1.7 +/- 0.6 kilograms. Subjects expended nearly 5000 kilocalories per day and did not consume sufficient food to maintain body mass.
Small cell carcinomas of the large intestine.	The authors studied the clinical and pathologic features of 38 small cell carcinomas of the large intestine. Most were located in the right colon. Overlying adenomas were present in 45% and squamous differentiation in 21% of tumors. Endocrine differentiation was present in all tumors by at least one method; neuron-specific enolase, dense-core granules, and synaptophysin were present in most cases. Seventy-one percent of tumors metastasized to the liver; 64% of patients were dead at five months follow-up. Twenty-one poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas and undifferentiated carcinomas of the large intestine accessioned during the same period showed less endocrine (7 of 21) and squamous differentiation (1 of 15) and fewer liver metastases (4 of 15) than did small cell carcinomas. Among all 59 tumors studied, small cell histologic characteristics correlated better with liver involvement than did endocrine markers or other histologic features. Small cell carcinomas of the large intestine are aggressive tumors with a propensity for early liver involvement. Although there is a spectrum of squamous, endocrine, and glandular features in large bowel tumors of low degrees of differentiation, the identification of a small cell component appears to be most clinically relevant.
Computed tomographic density of metastatic lymph nodes as a treatment-related prognostic factor in advanced head and neck cancer.	Pretherapeutic identification of patients likely to benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy for head and neck epidermoid cancer is of interest. We retrospectively analyzed the pretherapeutic computed tomographic (CT) scans of lymph nodes of 70 patients with head and neck cancer. All 70 patients were clinically classified as having stage IV disease. The purpose of our analysis was to compare the prognostic value of CT node density with that of the following factors: age, T and N categories, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, tumor site, histopathologic type of disease [squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or undifferentiated carcinoma of nasopharyngeal type (UNCT)], and type of local-regional treatment. A simple two-grade nodal density grading system was devised. The density of normal adjacent muscle was chosen as the density standard. A node was classified grade 1 if less than 33% of the node consisted of hypodense zones. A node was classified grade 2 if more than 33% of the node consisted of hypodense zones. Patients with grade 1 nodes had a complete response rate of 68% (21/31) compared with 8% (3/39) for those with grade 2 nodes (P less than .0001). The only other factor associated with complete node response was UCNT (P less than .03). However, node density remained the significant prognostic factor after adjustment for histopathologic type. Follow-up ranged from 16 to 44 months, with a median of 29 months. Patients with grade 1 nodes had a median survival time of 32 months versus 13 months for those with grade 2 nodes (P less than .01). A prospective study should validate the prognostic value of CT node density and its possible use in determining optimal multimodal therapy for advanced head and neck cancers.
The relationship between objectively measured sleep disturbance and dementia family caregiver distress and burden.	The aim of this study was to determine whether distress and burden were associated with objective measures of sleep disturbance in dementia caregivers. Using wrist actigraphy, sleep was measured in 60 female, Caucasian dementia family caregivers (mean age, 64.8 years). Caregivers completed questionnaires about demographics, health, depression, duration of caregiving and care recipient nighttime behavior. Care recipients completed a mental status exam. We investigated whether these measures were associated with actigraphic sleep parameters. Greater depressive symptoms among caregivers were associated with poorer sleep efficiency. Older caregiver age and poorer self-rated health were associated with longer time in bed. Sleep disturbance, which is common among dementia caregivers, might be an important index of caregiver distress (ie, depression) but might not be associated with burden (based on the care recipient's general cognitive impairment or nighttime awakenings.).
Rapid weight loss decreases serum testosterone.	To investigate the effects of a rapid weight reduction program under authentic pre-competition conditions, eighteen elite wrestlers were studied with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) before and after two to three weeks' weight reduction regimens. In order to establish the degree of dehydration and hormonal status, blood samples were collected to obtain blood chemistry, electrolytes and endocrinological parameters after both DXA measurements. The mean weight loss was 8.2 +/- 2.3 % and it was constituted by the mean reductions of fat mass of 16 +/- 6.9 % (p < or = 0.001) and lean body mass of 7.9 +/- 2.5 %. The rapid weight reduction caused significant dehydration which was noticed as increased blood hemoglobin (7.8 +/- 5.9 %, p < or = 0.001), hematocrit (11.3 +/- 6.8 %, p < or = 0.001), and serum creatinine (35 +/- 23 %, p < or = 0.001). There was a significant decrease in serum testosterone (63 +/- 33 %, p < or = 0.001) and luteinizing hormone (54 +/- 47 %, p < or = 0.001) concentrations. A reduced body weight correlated with decreased serum testosterone concentration (r = 0.53, p < or = 0.024). Serum sex hormone binding globulin concentration increased significantly (40 +/- 21 %, p < or = 0.001). The results suggest that even short-term weight reduction may have marked effects on body composition, blood chemistry and hormonal parameters. It may constitute a possible health risk at least in a growing adolescent athlete.
The efficacy and tolerability of three different regimens of tafenoquine versus primaquine for post-exposure prophylaxis of Plasmodium vivax malaria in the Southwest Pacific.	Tafenoquine is being developed for radical cure and post-exposure prophylaxis of Plasmodium vivax malaria. In an open-label study, 1512 Australian Defence Force personnel received one of three tafenoquine 3 d regimens [400 mg once daily (od), 200 mg twice daily (bid), 200 mg od] or daily primaquine (22.5 mg) plus doxycycline (100 mg) over 14 d in Bougainville and in Timor-Leste for post-exposure prophylaxis. The relapse rate of subjects treated in Bougainville with tafenoquine (n=173) was 1.2% (200 mg bid x 3 d) and 2.3% (400 mg od x 3 d), while primaquine plus doxycycline (n=175) was 3.4%. For subjects treated in Timor-Leste with tafenoquine (n=636), the relapse rate was 4.9% (200 mg od x 3 d), 5.3% (200 mg bid x 3 d) and 11.0% (400 mg od x 3d), while primaquine plus doxycycline (n=289) was 10.0%. The most frequent adverse events reported across all groups were nausea, abdominal distress and diarrhoea. There was a dose-dependent reduction in adverse events with a reduced dose of tafenoquine, with the lowest dose (total 600 mg over 3 d) producing rates of adverse events equivalent to that of primaquine plus doxycycline. The much shorter dosing regimen of tafenoquine should increase compliance, which is often suboptimal with primaquine after leaving an endemic area. [Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Number 12607000588493].
Association of cardiac autonomic function measures with severity of sleep-disordered breathing in a community-based sample.	The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that spectral indices of heart rate variability, such as high-frequency power (HFP), low-to-high frequency power (LHR), and their respiration-adjusted counterparts (HFPra, LHRra) are correlated with severity of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB), as quantified by the respiratory disturbance index (RDI). A total of 436 subjects, non-smoking, normotensive, and free of cardiovascular disease and diabetes were selected from the Sleep Heart Health Study (SHHS). Of these, 288 records with sufficiently high quality electrocardiogram signals were selected for further analysis [males/females: 221/67; age: 46.1 to 74.9 years; body mass index (BMI): 21.5 to 46.4 kg m(-2); 0.3 < RDI < 85.0(-1)]. From each polysomnogram, the respiration channels (thoracic and abdominal) and R-R interval (RRI) derived from the electrocardiogram were subjected to spectral analysis and autoregressive moving average modeling in consecutive 5-min segments. After adjusting for age and BMI, mean RRI was found to be negatively correlated with RDI in men in all sleep-wake states (all P < 0.001). HFP and HFPra were negatively correlated with RDI in men only during wakefulness (all P < 0.01). In women, LHR and LHRra were not correlated with RDI during wakefulness, but were positively correlated during non-rapid eye movement Stage 1 and 2 sleep (all P < 0.01). These findings suggest that the indices of cardiac autonomic control are correlated with SDB severity, but gender and state affect the nature of these correlations. In both genders, however, vagal modulation of heart rate increases while sympathetic modulation decreases from wakefulness to sleep.
Estimation of neuronal numbers in rat hippocampus following neonatal amphetamine exposure: a stereology study.	In this study, the effects of amphetamine exposure during a portion of the brain growth spurt on the total number of hippocampal pyramidal cells (CA1/CA3 subregions) and the granule cells (dentate gyrus) were examined in both neonatal and adult rats. Intragastric intubation was used to administer 5, 15 or 25 mg/kg/day of amphetamine to Sprague-Dawley rat pups from PDs 4-9. Unbiased stereology was used to estimate the total number of cells present within each hippocampal subregion at both PD 9 and PD 68. The results indicated that neonatal amphetamine exposure did not alter the cell number, the reference volume or the density in any of the hippocampal subregions assessed, regardless of age. However, amphetamine significantly altered the rate of neuronal incorporation in both the hippocampal CA3 subregion and the dentate gyrus, and this effect appeared to be dose-related with the most robust effect observed in the highest amphetamine dose. While these findings did not demonstrate significant injurious effects of neonatal amphetamine treatment on the number of hippocampal neurons, these data suggest that amphetamine may interfere with proper hippocampal development. Future studies employing more sensitive measurements or exposing amphetamine during an alternate period of development may provide more information regarding amphetamine-mediated developmental neurotoxicity.
Human heterophilic antibodies against equine immunoglobulins: assessment of their role in the early adverse reactions to antivenom administration.	The presence of human heterophilic antibodies against horse immunoglobulins (HHA-HI) was determined by ELISA in sera from healthy volunteers and from patients who received equine antivenom for therapy of snake bite envenoming. These patients were selected from two independent clinical studies: one in Colombia in which patients received antivenom constituted by whole IgG (n=25); and the other in Brazil where an antivenom constituted by F(ab')(2) fragments was administered (n=31). Results show that healthy volunteers have antibodies, mainly of the IgG class, able to react with whole equine IgG. Additionally, patients have IgG antibodies that react both with whole equine IgG and F(ab')(2) fragments. In both clinical studies, no significant differences were observed in the HHA-HI titres between the patients who presented early adverse (anaphylactoid) reactions and those who did not develop them. In addition, no variation in titre was observed in samples collected before and after antivenom administration. These results do not support the hypothesis that the incidence of early adverse reactions to antivenom administration correlates with the titre of HHA-HI in the serum of patients. Nevertheless, participation of these antibodies as part of a multifactorial pathogenic mechanism associated with these reactions cannot be ruled out.
Cockroaches as carriers of human intestinal parasites in two localities in Ethiopia.	A study was undertaken to assess the role of cockroaches as potential carriers of human intestinal parasites in Addis Ababa and Ziway, Ethiopia. A total of 6480 cockroaches were trapped from the two localities from October 2006 to March 2007. All the cockroaches trapped in Addis Ababa (n=2240) and almost 50% (2100/4240) of those trapped in Ziway were identified as Blattella germanica. The rest of the cockroaches trapped in Ziway were identified as Periplaneta brunnea (24.52%), Pycnoscelus surinamensis (16.03%) and Supella longipalpa (9.90%). Microscopic examination of the external body washes of pooled cockroaches and individual gut contents revealed that cockroaches are carriers of Entamoeba coli and Entamoeba histolytica/dispar cysts as well as Enterobius vermicularis, Trichuris trichiura, Taenia spp. and Ascaris lumbricoides ova. Besides their role as a nuisance, the present study further confirms that cockroaches serve as carriers of human intestinal parasites. The possible association of cockroaches with allergic conditions such as asthma is also discussed. Hence, appropriate control measures should be taken particularly to make hotels and residential areas free of cockroaches as they represent a health risk.
Neurodevelopmental effects of maternal nutritional status and exposure to methylmercury from eating fish during pregnancy.	Fish contain nutrients that promote optimal brain growth and development but also contain methylmercury (MeHg) that can have toxic effects. The present study tested the hypothesis that the intake of selected nutrients in fish or measures of maternal nutritional status may represent important confounders when estimating the effects of prenatal methylmercury exposure on child development. The study took place in the Republic of Seychelles, an Indian Ocean archipelago where fish consumption is high. A longitudinal cohort study design was used. A total of 300 mothers were enrolled early in pregnancy. Nutrients considered to be important for brain development were measured during pregnancy along with prenatal MeHg exposure. The children were evaluated periodically to age 30 months. There were 229 children with complete outcome and covariate data for analysis. The primary endpoint was the Bayley Scales of Infant Development-II (BSID-II), administered at 9 and 30 months of age. Combinations of four secondary measures of infant cognition and memory were also given at 5, 9 and 25 months. Cohort mothers consumed an average of 537 g of fish (nine meals containing fish) per week. The average prenatal MeHg exposure was 5.9 ppm in maternal hair. The primary analysis examined the associations between MeHg, maternal nutritional measures and children's scores on the BSID-II and showed an adverse association between MeHg and the mean Psychomotor Developmental Index (PDI) score at 30 months. Secondary analyses of the association between the PDI and only MeHg alone or nutritional factors alone showed only a borderline significant association between MeHg and the PDI at 30 months and no associations with nutritional factors. One experimental measure at 5 months of age was positively associated with iodine status, but not prenatal MeHg exposure. These findings suggest a possible confounding role of maternal nutrition in studies examining associations between prenatal MeHg exposures and developmental outcomes in children.
Agreement between methods.	Before new tests are implemented, it is important to compare their results with those of other measurement methods that are already in use. In the determination of this so-called agreement between methods, one may choose between several statistical approaches. The correlation coefficient is a popular approach to determine the agreement between measurement methods. It is easy to calculate, but has important limitations: it does not provide any information on the type of association and it is extremely sensitive to the range of values within the study. Finally, a correlation coefficient does not reveal whether any difference between two measurements is systematic or random. Therefore, it is highly preferable to use Bland-Altman plots instead, as these reveal both systematic and random errors. Bland-Altman plots are also preferable in case of repeated measurements and calibrations.
kDNA gene signatures of Trypanosoma cruzi in blood and oesophageal mucosa from chronic chagasic patients.	Trypanosoma cruzi presents a high degree of intraspecific variability, with possible implications for the pathogenesis of Chagas disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate T. cruzi kDNA minicircle gene signatures using the low-stringency single-specific-primer PCR technique in both peripheral blood and oesophageal mucosa from chronic chagasic patients, with or without megaesophagus, alone or in combination with cardiopathy and megacolon. It was not possible to identify a uniform pattern of shared bands between blood and oesophageal mucosa samples from individuals with the same clinical form or mixed forms, suggesting multiple T. cruzi infections with differential tissue tropism. Thus, the results indicate that there is an intense intraspecific variability in the hypervariable regions of T. cruzi kDNA, which has so far made it impossible to correlate the genetic profile of this structure with the clinical manifestations of Chagas disease.
Increased immune reactivity predicts aggressive complicating Crohn's disease in children.	The ability to identify children with CD who are at highest risk for rapid progression from uncomplicated to complicated phenotypes would be invaluable in guiding initial therapy. The aims of this study were to determine whether immune responses and/or CARD15 variants are associated with complicated disease phenotypes and predict disease progression.
Only half of the chronic pain after thoracic surgery shows a neuropathic component.	Chronic pain is a common complication after thoracic surgery. The cause of chronic post-thoracotomy pain is often suggested to be intercostal nerve damage. Thus chronic pain after thoracic surgery should have an important neuropathic component. The present study investigated the prevalence of the neuropathic component in chronic pain after thoracic surgery. Furthermore, we looked for predictive factors for prevalence and intensity of chronic pain. We contacted 243 patients who underwent a video-assisted thoracoscopy (VATS) or thoracotomy in the period between January 2004 and September 2006 by mail. Patients retrospectively received a questionnaire with the Dutch version of the PainDETECT Questionnaire, a validated screening tool for neuropathic pain. Results were analyzed from 204 patients (144 thoracotomies, 60 VATS). The prevalence of chronic pain was 40% after thoracotomy and 47% after VATS. Definite chronic neuropathic pain was present in 23% of the patients with chronic pain, with an additional 30% having probable neuropathic pain. Greater probability of neuropathic pain (ie, a higher total score of the PainDETECT) correlated with more intense chronic pain. Predictive factors for chronic pain were younger age (P = .01), radiotherapy (P = .043), pleurectomy (P = .04) and more extensive surgery (P < .001).
A 4-year follow-up study of atopic dermatitis therapy with 0.1% tacrolimus ointment in children and adult patients.	For the treatment of a chronic disease like atopic dermatitis, sustained tolerability and efficacy of the applied medication are essential.
Community factors affecting long-lasting impregnated mosquito net use for malaria control in Sri Lanka.	The Anti Malaria Campaign distributed approximately 300,000 long-lasting impregnated nets (LLINs) to malaria-endemic areas in Sri Lanka during the years 2005 to 2007. We conducted a community-based cross-sectional survey among 2467 households distributed among the three major ethnic groups of Sri Lanka to study the perceptions and practices with regard to the use of LLINs in order to improve their use. In a majority of households the number of LLINs available was not sufficient for the number of people, although there was a small percentage of households that had excess nets. The information and advice given at the time of distribution regarding use of the nets differed amongst the three groups and was not consistent. Dissemination of this knowledge within the family was not observed. A relationship between knowledge regarding LLINs and reported practices on washing and drying of LLINs was found. It was noted that net shape may influence net use, with cone shaped nets being more popular. Efforts to increase knowledge on LLINs using behaviour change communication techniques would have more effectively contributed to achieve planned outcomes. Proper use of LLINs will undoubtedly contribute to further reduction of malaria in Sri Lanka.
Predicting the short form-6D preference-based index using the eight mean short form-36 health dimension scores: estimating preference-based health-related utilities when patient level data are not available.	The objective is to derive an algorithm to predict a cohort preference-based short form-6D (short form-6D) score using the eight mean health dimension scores from the short form-36 (SF-36) when patient level data are not available.
Information on center characteristics as costs' determinants in multicenter clinical trials: is modeling center effect worth the effort?	Several methodological problems arise when health outcomes and resource utilization are collected at different sites. To avoid misleading conclusions in multi-center economic evaluations the center effect needs to be taken into adequate consideration. The aim of this article is to compare several models, which make use of a different amount of information about the enrolling center.
Increased expression of an epidermal stem cell marker, cytokeratin 19, in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.	Cytokeratin 19 (CK19) has been considered to be a putative marker for epidermal stem cells in the hair follicle bulge. Cumulative reports have shown that epidermal stem cells play an important role in skin carcinogenesis. However, to date there has been no report on the clinical alteration of the stem cells in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC).
Can preoperative electrical nociceptive stimulation predict acute pain after groin herniotomy?	Preoperative identification of patients at risk for high-intensity postoperative pain may be used to predict patients at risk for development of a persistent pain state and allocate patients to more intensive specific pain therapy. Preoperative pain threshold to electrocutaneus stimulation has recently been shown to correlate to acute postoperative pain after cesarean section, but the findings have not been confirmed in larger studies or other procedures. Preoperative electrical pain detection threshold and pain tolerance were assessed in patients undergoing a primary unilateral groin hernia repair. The correlation between the pain data for electrical stimulation was compared with the postoperative pain during the first week in 165 patients, whereof 3 were excluded. Preoperative electrical pain detection threshold and electrical pain tolerance threshold did not correlate to postoperative pain (rho = -0.13, P = .09, and rho = -1.2, P = .4, respectively.
Long-term outcome of adalimumab therapy for ulcerative colitis with intolerance or lost response to infliximab: a single-centre experience.	Adalimumab may be effective in inducing remission in patients with mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis who had secondary failure to infliximab.
Computer assisted video analysis of swimming performance in a forced swim test: simultaneous assessment of duration of immobility and swimming style in mice selected for high and low swim-stress induced analgesia.	In behavioral pharmacology, two problems are encountered when quantifying animal behavior: 1) reproducibility of the results across laboratories, especially in the case of manual scoring of animal behavior; 2) presence of different behavioral idiosyncrasies, common in genetically different animals, that mask or mimic the effects of the experimental treatments. This study aimed to develop an automated method enabling simultaneous assessment of the duration of immobility in mice and the depth of body submersion during swimming by means of computer assisted video analysis system (EthoVision from Noldus). We tested and compared parameters of immobility based either on the speed of an object (animal) movement or based on the percentage change in the object's area between the consecutive video frames. We also examined the effects of an erosion-dilation filtering procedure on the results obtained with both parameters of immobility. Finally, we proposed an automated method enabling assessment of depth of body submersion that reflects swimming performance. It was found that both parameters of immobility were sensitive to the effect of an antidepressant, desipramine, and that they yielded similar results when applied to mice that are good swimmers. The speed parameter was, however, more sensitive and more reliable because it depended less on random noise of the video image. Also, it was established that applying the erosion-dilation filtering procedure increased the reliability of both parameters of immobility. In case of mice that were poor swimmers, the assessed duration of immobility differed depending on a chosen parameter, thus resulting in the presence or lack of differences between two lines of mice that differed in swimming performance. These results substantiate the need for assessing swimming performance when the duration of immobility in the FST is compared in lines that differ in their swimming "styles". Testing swimming performance can also be important in the studies investigating the effects of swim stress on other behavioral or physiological parameters because poor swimming abilities displayed by some lines can increase severity of swim stress, masking the between-line differences or the main treatment effects.
Economic evaluation of the decisions of the Israeli Public Committee for updating the National List of Health Services in 2006/2007.	The Public Committee (PC), which decides on the inclusion and ranking of new technologies in the Israeli List of Health Services facing a given budget, does not explicitly consider the results of economic evaluations of the technologies discussed. The present article includes an ex post economic examination of the PC's 2006/2007 decisions.
Comparing the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) with the Short Form-36 preference-based SF-6D in chronic kidney disease.	Assess within-subject agreement and compare discriminative abilities between the SF-6D and the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD).
A longitudinal evaluation of health-related quality of life of patients with Parkinson's disease.	Few longitudinal studies have evaluated health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in Parkinson's disease (PD) and these studies have not evaluated all potentially relevant domains of PD. Our objective was to identify domains at baseline that predict change in HRQoL, and to evaluate the relation between change in HRQoL and change in particular domains of PD.
Low-dose lactose in drugs neither increases breath hydrogen excretion nor causes gastrointestinal symptoms.	Despite the reported tolerance to a low dose of lactose, many lactose malabsorbers follow a rigorous lactose-free diet also avoiding lactose-containing drugs. Up to now, only a few case reports have described the onset of gastrointestinal symptoms in lactose malabsorbers following the ingestion of these drugs. It has been suggested that capsules/tablets contain no more than 400 mg of lactose.
Fractional anisotropy and tumor cell density of the tumor core show positive correlation in diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging of malignant brain tumors.	A noninvasive technique for assessing tumor tissue characteristics is required to assist preoperative surgical planning for malignant brain tumors. Preoperative information on tumor cell density within a tumor would help better define the target for tumor biopsy, resulting in more accurate diagnosis and grading of malignant brain tumors. One possible source of this information is diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), although to date studies have focused on its ability to delineate white matter fiber tracks by fiber-tracking and to detect tumor infiltration around the tumor and normal white matter interface. However, the use of DTI for providing information on cell density has also been examined, although with the controversial results. In addition the exact relationships between cell density and the two key values that DTI provides, namely fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD), still need to be investigated. In the present study we performed a retrospective investigation of tumor cell density and FA and MD values in biopsy cases. We found that FA has a good positive correlation (R=0.75) and MD has a good negative correlation (R=0.70) with tumor cell density within the tumor core. Similar correlation was observed between the Ki-67 labeling index and FA (R=0.71) and MD (R=0.62). Thus, measurement of both FA and MD within the tumor core has a potential to provide detailed information on tumor cell density within the tumor. Although data obtained from DTI should be interpreted carefully and comprehensively with other imaging modalities such as positron emission tomography, DTI seems to be informative for planning the best biopsy target containing the highest cell density.
Observing in-phase single-quantum 15N multiplets for NH2/NH3+ groups with two-dimensional heteronuclear correlation spectroscopy.	Two-dimensional (2D) F1-(1)H-coupled HSQC experiments provide 3:1:1:3 and 1:0:1 multiplets for AX(3) and AX(2) spin systems, respectively. These multiplets occur because, in addition to the 2S(y)H(z)(a)-->2S(y)H(z)(a) process, the coherence transfers such as 2S(y)H(z)(a)-->2S(y)H(z)(b) occurring in t(1) period provide detectable magnetization during the t(2) period. Here, we present a 2D F1-(1)H-coupled (1)H-(15)N heteronuclear correlation experiment that provides a 1:3:3:1 quartet for AX(3) spin system and a 1:2:1 triplet for AX(2). The experiment is a derivative of 2D HISQC experiment [J. Iwahara, Y.S. Jung, G.M. Clore, Heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy for lysine NH(3) groups in proteins: unique effect of water exchange on (15)N transverse relaxation. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 129 (2007) 2971-2980] and contains a scheme that kills anti-phase single-quantum terms generated in the t(1) period. The purge scheme is essential to observe in-phase single-quantum multiplets. Applications to the NH(2) and NH(3)(+) groups in proteins are demonstrated.
The effects of food viscosity on bite size, bite effort and food intake.	Two studies investigated the effect of a food's viscosity on bite size, bite effort and food intake using a standardized protocol in which subjects sipped through a straw every 20 s for a period of 15 min from one of two products, a chocolate-flavored dairy drink and a chocolate-flavored dairy semi-solid, matched for energy density. In the first study, subjects consumed 47% more from the liquid than from the semi-solid to reach the same degree of satiation, with larger bite sizes for the liquid throughout the 15 minute period (8.7+/-0.45 g) compared to the semi-solid (5.8+/-0.3 g, p<0.01). In the second study bite effort was eliminated by using a peristaltic pump to present the products every 20 s. Oral processing time before swallowing was set at 5 s (both products) or 8 s (semi-solid). With the elimination of bite effort and a standardized oral processing time, subjects consumed as much from the semi-solid as from the liquid to reach the same degree of satiation. Bite size for liquids started relatively small and grew gradually over successive bites, whereas the bite size for the semi-solid food started relatively large and became gradually smaller. The latter effect was even more pronounced when the oral processing time was increased from 5 to 8 s. In conclusion, semi-solids resulted in smaller bite sizes and lower intake than liquids, but these differences disappeared when differences in bite effort were eliminated.
Estimation of nucleotide diversity, disequilibrium coefficients, and mutation rates from high-coverage genome-sequencing projects.	Recent advances in sequencing strategies have made it feasible to rapidly obtain high-coverage genomic profiles of single individuals, and soon it will be economically feasible to do so with hundreds to thousands of individuals per population. While offering unprecedented power for the acquisition of population-genetic parameters, these new methods also introduce a number of challenges, most notably the need to account for the binomial sampling of parental alleles at individual nucleotide sites and to eliminate bias from various sources of sequence errors. To minimize the effects of both problems, methods are developed for generating nearly unbiased and minimum-sampling-variance estimates of a number of key parameters, including the average nucleotide heterozygosity and its variance among sites, the pattern of decomposition of linkage disequilibrium with physical distance, and the rate and molecular spectrum of spontaneously arising mutations. These methods provide a general platform for the efficient utilization of data from population-genomic surveys, while also providing guidance for the optimal design of such studies.
Major depression, C-reactive protein, and incident ischemic heart disease in healthy men and women.	To investigate how C-reactive protein (CRP) and major depressive disorder (MDD) relate to each other and to incident ischemic heart disease (IHD). Studies have shown that both depression and raised CRP concentration predict IHD and that elevated CRP is linked with increased risk of depression.
Vibromyography of oral processing varies with type of semi-solid food and with sensory judgements.	Vibromyography was used to quantify oral activity during the processing of well-characterized semi-solid model foods whilst subjects assessed the intensity of the sensory attributes to thick, creamy, melting, fatty, rough and liking. A series of eleven starch-based vanilla custard desserts was prepared with five different viscosities, three different fat levels, and three different particle sizes. Over 5 sessions, subjects (N=10) took 5 ml spoonfuls of each of the stimuli for 5 s before they rated the strength of the various attributes. The results demonstrated that oral movements varied significantly with the type of semi-solid food and with the type of attribute. Individual subjects displayed a highly idiosyncratic behaviour. Oral movements were significantly related to sensory ratings of liking, creaminess and roughness.
Using malarial retinopathy to improve the classification of children with cerebral malaria.	The mechanisms leading to death in cerebral malaria (CM) remain unclear. We compared clinical and laboratory data among children with CM, categorized by ocular fundus findings, to elucidate differences that suggest different underlying pathological processes. From 1999-2005, standard examinations, treatment and record keeping were used for children with a clinical diagnosis of CM. Children were divided into ocular subgroups: normal fundus (N), malarial retinopathy (R), or papilloedema alone (P) and appropriate statistical tests were used to compare clinical and laboratory findings among groups. Eight hundred and eighty children who had eye examinations within 6 h of admission were included in the analysis. The groups differed significantly in case-fatality rates: Group P, 44.4% (95% CI 25.3-63.2), Group R, 18.0% (95% CI 15.6-22.3) and Group N, 7.0% (95% CI 4.2-9.8). There were also significant differences among the groups in blood pressure, prevalence of deep breathing, haematocrit, parasite density, platelet concentration and, among survivors, hours taken to recover from coma. Differences among groups suggest that different underlying pathophysiological processes are operating in children with CM defined by existing criteria. Our proposed classification, by improving the specificity of diagnosis, would enhance consistency among different study sites and prove useful in future research studies.
Further validation and responsiveness assessment of the Herpes Outbreak Impact Questionnaire and Herpes Symptom Checklist.	The Herpes Outbreak Impact Questionnaire (HOIQ) and Herpes Symptom Checklist (HSC) are patient-completed questionnaires for assessing genital herpes outbreaks. This report describes the validation of paper-and-pencil versions of the scales and responsiveness assessments in an Australian clinical trial.
Cannabis-induced psychotic-like experiences are predicted by high schizotypy. Confirmation of preliminary results in a large cohort.	Cannabis use has been identified as a possible risk factor for developing schizophrenia. In a previous paper we reported preliminary evidence that cannabis use increases the likelihood of psychosis-like experiences in non-clinical respondents who scored highly on a measure of schizotypy. We now present findings from pooled data from 3 new follow-up studies comprising a sample of 477 respondents, of whom 332 reported using cannabis at least once.
Does cannabis use lead to depression and suicidal behaviours? A population-based longitudinal study.	This study investigates the relationship between cannabis use and later depression, suicidal ideation and suicide attempts in a cohort of young Norwegians.
Mechanical derivation of the Wenzel and Cassie equations using a statistical interpretation of drop dispensation.	The global mechanical equilibrium condition of a liquid on a rough and chemically heterogeneous surface was derived for three-dimensional situations from a statistical outlook of dispensation of many drops and the assumption of local mechanical equilibrium. Unlike the conventional thermodynamic derivations from variational methods, the current proof is based on vector algebra rather than differential geometry. The mechanics-based derivation becomes less intricate although the minimum energy condition is not established. An effective contact angle is computed from the directional sampling of three-phase lines after local drop dispensations. The final expression is a combined mechanical version of the Wenzel and Cassie equations.
Trait cheerfulness modulates BOLD response in lateral cortical but not limbic brain areas--a pilot fMRI study.	Having a good "sense of humor" is an important personality characteristic that significantly influences social communication and may represent an important coping strategy. To take things "with humor" does not only represent a state characteristic but also a personality trait that can reliably be assessed with questionnaires like the "state-trait-cheerfulness-inventory" (STCI) by Ruch [Ruch et al., Assessing the "humorous temperament": construction of the facet and standard trait forms of the state-trait-cheerfulness-inventory-STCI, Humor 9 (1996) 303-339]. Substantial inter-individual differences among study subjects are a key feature of almost all functional magnetic resonance imaging studies on higher cognitive functions. Usually, they are considered as "statistical noise" and are not recommended for the data analysis, although they can have a high intra-individual stability. However, a number of recent fMRI studies found robust correlations between inter-individual differences in BOLD response and personality traits such as extraversion. The aim of this pilot exploratory study was to localise regions where the BOLD response was predicted by "humor personality" scores. 10 healthy male subjects viewed funny or non-funny versions of Gary Larson cartoons while BOLD response was measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Data were collected from the whole brain (28 slices, slice thickness 4 mm, 1 mm gap, TR = 3s). SPM 99 software was used. A simple regression analysis with the sub-score cheerfulness from the STCI was applied. Higher cheerfulness in the STCI predicted brain activation in the right inferior parietal lobule (Tal X, Y, Z: 45, -77, 29), but not in limbic and prefrontal brain areas. We conclude that neural correlates of cheerfulness are correlated with BOLD response in lateral cortical rather than limbic brain areas. Likely the activated region is important for a readiness or tendency to be amused, whereas the regions previously shown to be activated in humor appreciation studies are related to the understanding of the joke and the emotional reaction.
Profile of tuberculosis patients progressing to death, city of São Paulo, Brazil, 2002.	To profile adult patients dying of tuberculosis in the city of São Paulo with respect to biological, environmental and institutional factors.
Correlates of patient acceptance of the cardioverter defibrillator: cross-validation of the Florida Patient Acceptance Survey in Danish patients.	Device acceptance may comprise one of the keys to identifying implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) patients at risk for adverse health outcomes in clinical practice. We examined (1) the validity and reliability of the Florida Patient Acceptance Survey (FPAS) and (2) correlates of device acceptance in a large sample of Danish patients.
Circadian serum concentrations of tylosin in broilers after feed or water medication.	1. Because tylosin is a time-dependent antibacterial agent, and because feeding and drinking of broilers decreases in late afternoon and ceases in the dark, it was hypothesised that serum concentrations of this drug are greatly reduced during the dark period. 2. The trial was carried out in a commercial poultry house, under standard broiler husbandry conditions, with food and water withdrawn from 22:00 until 07:00 h next morning and exposed to a natural light cycle of 13L:11D. 3. Broilers were given tylosin tartrate, in either feed or water, for 5 d as follows: 100, 200 and 300 ppm in feed, equivalent to 12.6, 25.2 and 37.8 mg/kg/d, respectively; and 200 and 400 mg/l in drinking water, equivalent to 51 to 102 mg/kg/d, respectively. 4. At 07:00 h on d 4, and for the next 40 h, hourly serum samples were obtained and analysed for tylosin by means of a microbiological assay. 5. Day vs night concentrations of tylosin expressed as area under the curve (AUC) in all groups revealed greater values during the day. The highest AUC and AUC(24)/minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) ratio were obtained in the group medicated with 400 mg/l and the corresponding lowest values were found in the group medicated with 100 ppm in feed. 6. In conclusion, tylosin did not reach therapeutic serum concentrations during the dark period, at all dose rates tested when administered in feed or water. A sustained release form of this drug is needed to solve this inadequacy of tylosin medication in broilers.
The association of Geriatric Nutritional Risk Index and total lymphocyte count with short-term nutrition-related complications in institutionalised elderly.	To investigate how total lymphocyte count (TLC) and the Geriatric Nutritional Risk Index (GNRI) are associated with short-term nutritional-related complications (death, infections, bedsores) in institutionalised elderly.
Acute coronary syndrome patients with depression have low blood cell membrane omega-3 fatty acid levels.	To determine the extent to which levels of membrane eicosapentaenoic (EPA)+docosahexaenoic acids (DHA) (the omega-3 index) were associated with depression in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Depression is associated with worse cardiovascular (CV) outcomes in patients with ACS. Reduced levels of blood cell membrane omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids (FAs), an emerging risk factor for both CV disease and depression, may help to explain the link between depression and adverse CV outcomes.
Oral health and cognitive function in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III).	To investigate the association between oral health and cognitive function in early-, mid-, and late-adult life.
The relationship between joint strength and standing vertical jump performance.	The effect of joint strengthening on standing vertical jump height is investigated by computer simulation. The human model consists of five rigid segments representing the feet, shanks, thighs, HT (head and trunk), and arms. Segments are connected by frictionless revolute joints and model movement is driven by joint torque actuators. Each joint torque is the product of maximum isometric torque and three variable functions of instantaneous joint angle, angular velocity, and activation level, respectively. Jumping movements starting from a balanced initial posture and ending at takeoff are simulated. A matching simulation reproducing the actual jumping movement is generated by optimizing joint activation level. Simulations with the goal of maximizing jump height are repeated for varying maximum isometric torque of one joint by up to +/-20% while keeping other joint strength values unchanged. Similar to previous studies, reoptimization of activation after joint strengthening is necessary for increasing jump height. The knee and ankle are the most effective joints in changing jump height (by as much as 2.4%, or 3 cm). For the same amount of percentage increase/decrease in strength, the shoulder is the least effective joint (which changes height by as much as 0.6%), but its influence should not be overlooked.
Relationship and clinical significance of KiSS-1, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), p50, and matrix metalloproteinase 9 expression in breast cancer]	To study the expression of KiSS-1, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) p50 and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) in breast cancer tissue and the relationship with clinicpathological factors.
Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation protein levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells correlate with levels in subcutaneous adipose tissue within samples differing by HIV and lipoatrophy status.	Depletion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and mtDNA-encoded respiratory chain proteins in subcutaneous (SC) fat from patients with HIV lipoatrophy have clearly demonstrated the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in this syndrome. Research in HIV lipoatrophy, however, has been severely hampered by the lack of a suitable surrogate marker in blood or other easily obtained clinical specimens as fat biopsies are invasive and mtDNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) do not consistently correlate with the disease process. We used a simple, rapid, quantitative 2-site dipstick immunoassay to measure OXPHOS enzymes Complex I (CI) and Complex IV (CIV), and rtPCR to measure mtDNA in 26 matched SC fat and PBMC specimens previously banked from individuals on potent antiretroviral (ARV) therapy with HIV lipoatrophy, on similar ARV therapy without lipoatrophy, and in HIV seronegative controls. Significant correlations were found between the respective PBMC and fat levels for both CI (r = 0.442, p = 0.024) and for CIV (r = 0.507, p = 0.008). Both CI and CIV protein levels were also significantly reduced in both PBMCs and fat in lipoatrophic subjects compared to HIV seronegative controls (p < or = 0.05), while a comparative reduction in mtDNA levels in lipoatrophic subjects was observed only in fat. We conclude that CI and CIV levels in PBMCs correlate to their respective levels in fat and may have utility as surrogate markers of mitochondrial dysfunction in lipoatrophy.
HIV dynamics in seminal plasma during primary HIV infection.	HIV dynamics in seminal plasma during primary HIV infection was evaluated through an observational study of individuals with primary HIV infection at the University of Washington Primary Infection Clinic. Seminal plasma HIV RNA was quantified using a real-time reverse transcription PCR assay. Blood plasma RNA was quantified by bDNA or PCR-based assays. Longitudinal analyses of HIV RNA levels over time used random effects regression analysis. From 1993 to 2005, 110 men collected 327 semen specimens. Initial blood and seminal plasma RNA levels in untreated men were only moderately correlated (Spearman r = 0.38, p = 0.0002). Estimated peak and set point levels were lower in semen than blood by 0.8 (p = 0.001) and 0.7 (p < 0.001) log(10) copies/ml, respectively. RNA decay rates were similar in the two compartments (p = 0.4). For 2 months after infection, mean HIV RNA levels in seminal plasma remained above a threshold level (3.8 log(10) copies/ml) that has been associated with recovery of infectious virus in vitro. HIV-positive men are likely to be most infectious in the first months following HIV acquisition. However, the modest relationship between HIV RNA levels in blood and seminal plasma suggests that the relative risk of HIV transmission during primary infection may vary from current estimates that are solely based on blood levels. Incorporating seminal plasma HIV levels into future mathematical models may increase the accuracy of these models.
A tissue biomarker panel predicting systemic progression after PSA recurrence post-definitive prostate cancer therapy.	Many men develop a rising PSA after initial therapy for prostate cancer. While some of these men will develop a local or metastatic recurrence that warrants further therapy, others will have no evidence of disease progression. We hypothesized that an expression biomarker panel can predict which men with a rising PSA would benefit from further therapy.
Spot urine protein: creatinine ratio versus 24 hour urine protein at various levels of GFR patients referred to a tertiary care hospital of Pakistan.	To determine the correlation of "random single voided urine protein: creatinine ratio" to "twenty four hour urine protein" at different levels of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in Pakistani population.
Radiological site characterizations: gamma surveys, gamma/226Ra correlations, and related spatial analysis techniques.	Radiological surveys of a uranium mill site in Colorado and several proposed uranium recovery sites in Wyoming were conducted in 2006 and 2007. Advancements in Global Positioning System (GPS)-based gamma scanning systems combined with gamma/Ra correlations and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)-based spatial analysis techniques produced comprehensive and detailed characterizations of the spatial distributions of gamma exposure rates and Ra concentrations in surface soils across extensive study areas. Aside from limitations on gamma-based estimates of soil Ra related to soil heterogeneity or gamma shine effects, soil sampling results to date show good general agreement between estimated and measured values. Spatial characterization aspects of the survey approach are clearly more effective than conventional grid sampling methods, particularly for such large sites. Example project applications, data collection and analysis methods, challenges encountered, and resulting mapped estimates of various aspects of these radiological parameters are presented.
Lessons learned in using hospital discharge data for state and national public health surveillance: implications for Centers for Disease Control and prevention tracking program.	The goal of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Environmental Public Health Tracking (EPHT) Program is to build a nationwide network of integrated health and environmental data to measure impact of environmental factors on public health. This article describes how hospital discharge data can provide essential information for public health programs, including EPHT. The state inpatient hospital discharge data systems have properties that are highly desirable for surveillance and multistate initiatives, like EPHT, yet accessing and using the data can create challenges for the end user. This article highlights the strengths and limitations of hospital discharge data and references crash outcome data and evaluation system and Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project as models for accessing, linking, and aggregating hospital discharge data. These federal-state data partnerships have overcome many of these challenges and have the potential to serve as models for the EPHT Program. The lessons learned from these "early adopters" can shortcut the implementation period for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention EPHT Program.
Psychobiology of anxiety disorders and obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders.	Obsessive-compulsive disorder is currently classified as an anxiety disorder. However, there is growing interest in the concept of an obsessive-compulsive spectrum of disorders (OCSDs). The relationship between anxiety disorders and OCSDs has been questioned. The psychobiology of anxiety disorders and OCSDs is briefly reviewed in this article. While there appear to be several distinct contrasts in the underlying psychobiology of these conditions, there is also evidence of overlapping mechanisms. In addition, there are crucial gaps in our current database, confounding nosological decision-making. Conceptualizing various anxiety disorders and putative OCSDs as lying within a broader spectrum of emotional disorders may be useful. However, clinicians must also recognize that individual anxiety and obsessive-compulsive spectrum conditions, including disorders characterized by body-focused repetitive behaviors, have distinct psychobiological underpinnings and require different treatment approaches.
Performance of elderly in a speech in noise test.	speech perception of elderly, in silence and in the presence of background noise.
Shortened sleep duration is associated with pediatric overweight.	Increasing attention is being focused on potential risk factors that may lead to overweight in children and adolescents and that may, therefore, be important targets for intervention. Historically, children's eating and activity habits have received considerable attention in programmatic research targeted at prevention and treatment of overweight. However, more recent research has found that additional factors may play a role in this growing epidemic. Of particular interest is children's sleep duration. The goal of this article is to review research that has assessed the association between children's sleep duration and overweight risk in an attempt to uncover the potential role of sleep in the growing obesity epidemic. Although shortened sleep duration is associated with increased overweight in children, additional research is needed prior to recommending that children's sleep be increased as a means to address the current obesity epidemic.
Correlation between HIV-1 RNA load in blood and seminal plasma depending on antiretroviral treatment status, regimen and penetration of semen by antiretroviral drugs.	To assess the correlation between HIV-1 RNA load in blood and semen by antiretroviral therapy status and the relative penetration of antiretroviral drugs in seminal plasma. We performed a cross-sectional cohort study of 119 HIV-1 subjects divided into three groups according to treatment status. Blood and semen were collected concurrently. Seminal viral load determined by NucliSens HIV-1 QT PCR (BioMerieux). Viral suppression over time was assessed in a second semen sample collected from 10 treated subjects. Antiretroviral plasma concentrations were measured by high performance liquid chromatography and recovery experiments were performed on semen samples to validate quantitation in this matrix. All subjects taking non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (n = 36, mean treatment 33 months +/- 14) or protease inhibitors (n = 45, mean treatment 31 months +/- 25) had blood viral load < 50 copies/mL and seminal viral load < 250 copies/mL. In untreated subjects (n = 38), blood and semen viral loads were positively correlated (Spearman's rho = 0.489, p = 0.002). Blood and semen nevirapine concentrations were positively correlated (r(2) = 0.795, p = 0.005) and therapeutic concentrations achieved in both compartments. Lopinavir and atazanavir also penetrated semen but efavirenz did not. We find that there is compartmentalisation of HIV-1 within the male genital tract and propose that new infections may originate from untreated men and that suppressive antiretroviral regimens may reduce the risk of sexual transmission.
Awareness of memory functioning, autobiographical memory and identity in early-stage dementia.	Sense of identity is thought to be closely related to autobiographical memory. Theoretical models of awareness suggest that both may also be related to level of awareness of memory functioning among people with early-stage dementia. This study explores the relationships between autobiographical memory, identity and awareness in early-stage dementia. Thirty participants with Alzheimer's disease, or vascular or mixed dementia were assessed using the Autobiographical Memory Interview, with an additional section eliciting recall for the mid-life period, the Tennessee Self-Concept Scale, and the Memory Awareness Rating Scale. Lower levels of awareness of memory functioning were associated with poorer autobiographical recall for the mid-life period and with a more positive and definite sense of identity. Reduced awareness may serve a protective function against the threats to self posed by the onset and progression of dementia.
Finger dermatoglyphics and their asymmetry in Bulgarian right-, mixed- and left-handers.	Since Bulgarians have never been investigated concerning the relationship between handedness and dermatoglyphics, the present study was aimed to investigate the aforementioned relationship in a Bulgarian sample. Digital dermatoglyphics and their asymmetries have been studied in 870 apparently healthy students from randomly selected Bulgarian secondary schools: 264 right-handers (RH), 246 mixed-handers (MH) and 360 left-handers (LH). The whorls were significantly less frequent and the ulnar loops more frequent in RH than in the other two handedness categories. Right-handers exceeded significantly MH and LH in the ulnar fluctuating asymmetries of the first and the fourth finger pairs. As compared to the number of investigated variables and especially to the important psychological and behavioral differences between handedness categories reported earlier in the same sample, the presented significant findings are rather scarce. Nevertheless they could contribute to the accumulation of data concerning the investigated relationship and to its better understanding.
Relationship between anthropometric measures and body composition among Muslim females of West Bengal, India.	The human body composition is assessed to determine percent body fat (PBF), fat mass (FM), and lean body mass or fat free mass (FFM). The topological distribution of body fat has been the subject of many studies in the world and India. To the best of our knowledge the present paper is the first report on the body composition in terms of PBF and FM, and their relationship with anthropometric measures in Muslim females in India. The present study examines anthropometric measurements and their relationship with the body composition among Muslim females of West Bengal, India. A cross-sectional study of 100 female, Muslim students of Howrah and Kolkata was undertaken to compare the relationships of biceps and triceps skinfold, waist, hip and upper arm circumference, waist hip ratio and conicity index with their body composition variables (PBF and FM). All anthropometric measures displayed significant (p < 0.05) correlation with body composition measures. The triceps skinfold, however, demonstrated a significant correlation with PBF (r = 0.90) and FM (r = 0.93). The greatest amount of variation of PBF (81.3 %) and FM (89.2 %) was explained by the triceps skinfold. In addition, a considerable amount of variation of PBF (72.8 %) and FM (86.0 %) was explained by the mid upper arm circumference. In conclusion, the present study displays a tendency of regional adiposity in the upper arm, triceps skinfold and mid upper arm circumference are much more strongly associated with body fat.
Food cue-elicited brain potentials in obese and healthy-weight individuals.	The main objective of this study was to investigate, by means of event-related potentials (ERPs), whether obese individuals process food-related information differently as compared to normal-weight individuals. Because amplitudes of late positive ERP components (P3, LPP) reflect motivational tendencies, obese participants were expected to display enlarged P3 and LPP amplitudes towards food pictures. Obese and normal-weight adults were exposed to pictures of food and control items, while EEG was recorded. Subjective levels of food craving and hunger were also assessed. While there were no differences in ERP amplitudes between obese and normal-weight individuals, significantly larger P3 and LPP amplitudes were elicited by pictures of food items as compared to control pictures. Positive correlations were found between P3 and LPP amplitudes and self-reported increases of hunger. It was concluded that food-related information is processed differently in the brain as compared to non-food-related information, in a manner that reflects the natural motivational value of food. In the present study, there was no indication of an electrophysiological or subjective hyper-reactivity to food cues in obese adults.
Agentic and communal personality traits: relations to disordered eating behavior, body shape concern, and depressive symptoms.	This study was designed to examine links between agentic and communal personality traits and disordered eating behavior and related problems (i.e., body shape concern and depressive symptoms) in a sample of 298 undergraduates. As predicted, unmitigated agency was positively associated with uncontrolled eating, and unmitigated communion was positively related to emotional eating and fasting for at least 24 h in order to control weight. When controlling for depressive symptomatology, unmitigated communion was no longer associated with emotional eating. Whereas unmitigated agentic and communal characteristics were positively associated with problematic eating patterns, agency was negatively associated with fasting and body shape concern. Findings suggest that further examination of the potential influence of gender-linked personality traits on disordered eating behavior is warranted.
Correlation between scattering properties of silver particle arrays and fluorescence enhancement.	We report on the nanofabrication of patterned silver particle arrays using electron-beam lithography and the evaluation of their optical properties using backscattering and fluorescence spectroscopy. The silver particles varied in size from 100 to 250 nm and were in the shape of circles, squares, and triangles. Three inter-particle separations, 40, 65, and 90 nm as measured from the side of one particle to the side of the next particle, were used. We observed distinctive patterns of backscattering and fluorescence intensity depending on the particle size, inter-particle spacing, and excitation/emission wavelength used. Our approach allows for a study of the correlation between the backscattering intensities and fluorescence enhancement of silver particle arrays, which can be used to optimize the arrays for multi-fluorophore configuration for advanced sensing designs.
Correlation between cognitive impairment and dependence in hypoxemic COPD.	We studied 149 patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Three clusters were generated (high, mid, and low level of cognitive function) based on 11 neuropsychologic scores; personal independence in basic/instrumental activities of daily living (BADL/IADL) of clusters was compared by discriminant analysis. Pattern of BADL/IADL was cluster-specific in 79.2% of high and 54.9% of low clusters, but only 20.8% of mid cluster. Self-administering drugs, continence, managing money, and dressing items had the greatest discriminatory capacity. Clusters had comparable respiratory function. In older COPD patients, dependence parallels cognitive impairment only to some extent. Indices of COPD severity are poor correlates of dependence.
Judgment and memory performance for emotional stimuli in patients with alcoholic Korsakoff syndrome.	In this study we investigated whether alcoholic Korsakoff patients are impaired in categorizing neutral and emotional stimuli according to their valence and whether memory performance for this material is reduced. In a group of Korsakoff patients and a comparison group two experimental tasks--one containing emotional and neutral pictures and the other containing words-were administered. Results showed that patients had difficulties in affective judgments due to problems in classifying neutral stimuli. Memory for emotional and neutral material was impaired to a similar degree. Thus, the facilitating effect of emotional valence on memory performance is absent in Korsakoff patients.
Clinical trial: pilot study of metformin for the treatment of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.	Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a form of progressive fatty liver disease that is strongly associated with insulin resistance, which suggests that insulin sensitizing agents such as metformin may be beneficial for NASH.
An open study of antibiotics for the treatment of pre-pouch ileitis following restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis.	Pre-pouch ileitis is a recently described condition which may occur following restorative proctocolectomy. Its aetiology remains unknown and only one study has reported the effect of treatment. We report a series of fourteen patients treated and followed up with repeat pouchoscopy.
On-demand requirements of patients with endoscopy-negative gastro-oesophageal reflux disease: H2-blocker vs. proton pump inhibitor.	It is questionable whether a symptomatic condition with few serious medical consequences requires proton pump inhibitor (PPI) treatment. If effective, a less-potent treatment may be preferable.
Antiphospholipid antibodies and recurrent abortion.	We examined the association between anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulant, and the risk of recurrent spontaneous abortion in a case-control study conducted in a network of general and teaching hospitals in northern Italy. Subjects consisted of 220 women with two or more unexplained consecutive spontaneous abortions and 193 controls admitted for acute conditions other than immunologic, infective, gynecologic, or cardiovascular. Lupus anticoagulant was detected in 16 of 220 cases (7%, 95% confidence interval 4-11%) but in none of the 193 controls (Fisher exact test, P less than .001). Increased anticardiolipin antibody levels were demonstrated in 19 of 99 cases (19%, 95% confidence interval 12-31%) (seven immunoglobulin (Ig) G, eight IgM, and four IgG and IgM) and in four (all IgG) of 157 controls (3%) for whom data were available. These results offer quantitative evidence on the association between antiphospholipid antibodies and recurrent abortion.
Racial heterogeneity of HIV antigenemia in people with HIV infection.	We compared the prevalence of HIV p24 antigenemia in black and white US patients with HIV infection. The prevalence of HIV antigenemia increased with severity of HIV disease (P less than 0.001). In all clinical categories, whites were more likely to be HIV-antigenemic than blacks (overall prevalence 38 versus 18%; P less than 0.01). Anti-p24 antibodies were detected in a higher proportion of blacks (84%) than whites (65%; P = 0.02). Blacks had significantly higher total serum immunoglobulin levels than whites (median 3.8 versus 3.2 mg/dl; P less than 0.00001). Racial differences in HIV antigen expression may result from differences in humoral response to HIV infection. These differences should be considered when HIV antigen is used as a surrogate marker in clinical trials.
Hyperventilation-induced panic attacks in panic disorder with agoraphobia.	Eight minutes of hyperventilation to an end-tidal PCO2 of less than 20 mmHg led to a panic attack in 7 of 12 patients with panic disorder with agoraphobia and only 1 of 12 normal controls. Patients experienced greater increases in panic symptoms than controls during hyperventilation. Patients who reported more distress from somatic symptoms of hyperventilation during the preceding week were more likely to panic during hyperventilation. Patients who panicked during hyperventilation exhibited a delayed recovery of normocapnia following hyperventilation. Hyperventilation by this protocol is an effective means of inducing panic attacks in the laboratory. A hyperventilation challenge may identify a subgroup of patients for whom hyperventilation symptoms are frequently associated with panic.
1H-MRSI of prostate cancer: the relationship between metabolite ratio and tumor proliferation.	To investigate whether 1H-MRSI can be used to predict the proliferative activity of prostate cancer.
Diagnostic imaging in Merkel cell carcinoma: lessons to learn from 16 cases with correlation of sonography, CT, MRI and PET.	The authors report imaging findings in a series of 16 patients with MCC, a rare tumour which is often managed primarily by a dermatologist. To our knowledge, no equivalent series of MCC has been described in the nuclear medicine literature.
The development of a standardized skill assessment for junior volleyball players.	To develop a skill assessment for junior volleyball players and to evaluate the reliability, validity, and sensitivity of the test for detecting training-induced improvements in skill.
A prediction model for peak power output from different incremental exercise tests.	There is currently no model that predicts peak power output (PPO) thereby allowing comparison between different incremental exercise test (EXT) protocols. In this study we have used the critical power profile to develop a mathematical model for predicting PPO from the results of different EXTs.
The yo-yo test: reliability and association with a 20-m shuttle run and VO(2max).	The purpose of the study was to determine the reliability of yo-yo intermittent recovery test (yo-yo) scores and their degree of association with a 20-m shuttle run (20MSR) and VO(2max) values.
High correlation between quantitative ultrasound and DXA during 7 years of follow-up.	Ultrasound is a quick, cheap and non-radiating device for assessing bone quality. We wanted to validate the method for clinical and epidemiological use. Eighty women, aged 53-73 years, with osteoporosis and/or fractures were followed repeatedly during 7 years. Quantitative ultrasound (QUS) measurements (LUNAR Achilles) were compared with bone mineral density (BMD) and bone mineral content (BMC) estimated by DXA (LUNAR) in regions of interest. Changes in the speed of sound, broadband ultrasound attenuation and stiffness were positively correlated with changes in BMD and BMC in all regions measured with DXA (r=0.20-0.53; p=0.09 to <0.0001). The QUS t-score at the left heel was positively correlated with the t-score at the right heel (r=0.90, p<0.0001). The DXA t-score of the left vs. the right femur was also positively correlated (r=0.72-0.86; p<0.0001). A t-score<-2.5 S.D. was found in 70% and 56% at baseline, and 74% and 65% at follow-up measured with QUS and DXA, respectively. The mean sensitivity of QUS vs. DXA was 79% and the mean specificity 45% over a 7-year period. A QUS t-score of <-3.65 S.D. was consistent with a DXA t-score of <-2.5 S.D. In conclusion, QUS was well correlated with DXA in all regions over the 7-year period. QUS can be used in settings without access to DXA and in epidemiological studies. The sensitivity was high but the specificity was low, implicating that DXA, if available, is recommended before treatment for osteoporosis. However, treatment can be started without DXA at a QUS t-score<-3.65 S.D., and especially in the presence of fractures.
Rectal villous tumours: MR features and correlation with TRUS in the preoperative evaluation.	The aim of this study was to assess the clinical relevance of MR and transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS) imaging of rectal villous tumours to elucidate the correlation between imaging results and specific histopathological tumour features, such as tumour size (T) and lymph node involvement (N), in order to establish the better technique for the pre-surgical patient evaluation.
Performance-oriented mobility assessment (POMA) balance score indicates need for assistive device.	To determine (1) if older adults using an assistive device (AD) score lower on the Performance-Oriented Mobility Assessment (POMA) balance subscale (B-subscale) than individuals not using an AD; and (2) if a cut-score of 12 would indicate the need to use an AD.
Structures of proteins and cofactors: X-ray crystallography.	Protein crystallography is the predominately used technique for the determination of the three-dimensional structures of proteins and other macromolecules. In this article, the methodology utilized for the measurement and analysis of the diffraction data from crystals is briefly reviewed. As examples of both the usefulness and difficulties of this technique, the determination of the structures of several photosynthetic pigment-protein complexes is described, namely, the reaction center from purple bacteria, photosystem I and photosystem II from cyanobacteria, the light-harvesting complex II from purple bacteria, and the FMO protein from green bacteria.
Florida Apraxia Battery-Extended and revised Sydney (FABERS): design, description, and a healthy control sample.	There exist few clinical assessments for limb apraxia, a disorder of learned, purposeful action, that enable clinicians to distinguish pathological from normal variance in limb praxis performance. We describe a theoretically motivated, comprehensive assessment battery for limb apraxia and present control comparison scores for 16 older healthy normal individuals on subtests designed to distinguish the integrity of components of the praxis system.
Distinct neural correlates for volitional generation and inhibition of saccades.	The antisaccade task has proven highly useful in basic and clinical neuroscience, and the neural structures involved are well documented. However, the cognitive and neural mechanisms that mediate task performance are not yet understood. An event-related fMRI study was designed to dissociate the neural correlates of two putative key functions, volitional saccade generation and inhibition of reflexive saccades, and to investigate their interaction. Nineteen healthy volunteers performed a task that required (a) to initiate saccades volitionally, either with or without a simultaneous demand to inhibit a reflexive saccade; and (b) to inhibit a reflexive saccade, either with or without a simultaneous demand to initiate a saccade volitionally. Analysis of blood oxygen level-dependent signal changes confirmed a major role of the frontal eye fields and the supplementary eye fields in volitional saccade generation. Inhibition-related activation of a specific fronto-parietal network was highly consistent with previous evidence involved in inhibitory processes. Unexpectedly, there was little evidence of specific brain activation during combined generation and inhibition demands, suggesting that the neural processing of generation and inhibition in antisaccades is independent to a large extent.
Maternal smoking during pregnancy and offspring obesity: meta-analysis.	Recent reports have suggested that maternal smoking may increase the risk of development of obesity in the unborn child in later life, but relatively few cohort studies have been done on the relationship between maternal smoking during pregnancy and future development of metabolic syndrome.
Bilateral pallidal stimulation in children and adolescents with primary generalized dystonia--report of six patients and literature-based analysis of predictive outcomes variables.	Primary generalized dystonia is a rare movement disorder. Medical treatment rarely relieves symptoms. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of bilateral pallidal stimulation in 6 children and adolescents with primary generalized dystonia. In addition, we strived to find predictors for treatment outcome by review and analysis of previously published studies.
Growth curve of an experimental solid tumor following radiotherapy.	Because it has long been recognized that the growth of most untreated tumors is well described by Gompertzian or exponential growth curves but that the growth of treated tumors has never been well characterized mathematically, we developed and applied an equation that, while not dependent on restrictive assumptions or unmeasurable variables, was nevertheless capable of describing perturbed as well as unperturbed growth. For the 3964A rat hepatoma, a functional relationship between dose level of radiotherapy and growth-curve response was derived and used for predictive purposes. An implied relationship between tumor size and sensitivity to therapy and some clinical implications were examined.
Effects of gender and personality on the Conners Continuous Performance Test.	A total of 91 university community participants were evaluated on the five personality factors (NEO-Five Factor Inventory; NEO-FFI) and with the Conners Continuous Performance Test (CPT). Gender differences for the Conners CPT variables were found such that the men were faster and less variable in their reaction times than the women, and the women were more sensitive in terms of signal detection and conservative in their responses than the men, consistent with the data reported by Conners, Epstein, Angold, and Klaric (2003) for a normative sample of 9-18 year olds. Interesting relationships between personality factors and the CPT variables were seen for the male and female groups, especially in terms of response style and vigilance. For the combined genders, higher vigilance was associated with higher neuroticism, lower extraversion, and lower agreeableness. Lower conscientiousness was associated with a more risk-taking/less conservative response bias. The men were more vigilant than the women, and for the men, this higher vigilance was related to lower conscientiousness, with trends for relationships with greater neuroticism and lower agreeableness. In the women, higher vigilance was related to lower extraversion, consistent with other studies. Men who were more extraverted also tended to be less conservative/more risk taking in their response style. A more risk-taking response style in women was associated with higher neuroticism, higher openness, and lower conscientiousness. The findings are interpreted in terms of underlying biological bases of behavior.
A real-life, ecologically valid test of executive functioning: the executive secretarial task.	A major goal of neuropsychological assessment is predicting a person's level of functioning in daily life. Making predictions about everyday executive functioning based on tests is problematic because of the contrast between demands made in the test environment and demands made in everyday life (Shallice & Burgess, 1991). As executive functions play an important role in independent functioning, tests with robust psychometric properties and ecologically validity are needed. We developed the Executive Secretarial Task (EST) and assessed 92 participants: 35 brain-injured patients and 57 controls. Analyses showed the EST is sensitive to executive problems and has concurrent and ecological validity.
The contribution of the World Fertility Surveys to an understanding of the relationship between women's work and fertility.	A consistent negative association between women's paid work and fertility in developed countries has emerged from many years of research. Results from research in developing countries are more ambiguous, with as many examples of a positive association as of a negative one. Lack of data comparability has often hampered interpretation of results. The World Fertility Surveys (WFS)--undertaken in 40 developing countries between 1974-81, using a common core questionnaire that included numerous questions on women's work--have created a unique opportunity to evaluate this association in a comparative framework. This article reviews and interprets the major findings on the work-fertility relationship from this and other published research on women's work and fertility, and assesses the data limitations. The article concludes with recommendations for the treatment of women's work in the design of future fertility and family planning surveys.
Evaluation of two assumptions: single straight line, and single normal distribution.	Using graphical and statistical approaches, Laszlo Endrenyi and Mayank Patel describe methods that answer two frequently asked questions: 'Can the data be characterized by a single straight line, or should a more complex model be invoked?' and 'Do the observations follow a single normal distribution, or is there evidence for deviations from this assumption, including the possibility of bimodality?" These methods complement those addressed in a recent Principles article by Dick Barlow.
Too much ado about instrumental variable approach: is the cure worse than the disease?	To review the efficacy of instrumental variable (IV) models in addressing a variety of assumption violations to ensure standard ordinary least squares (OLS) estimates are consistent. IV models gained popularity in outcomes research because of their ability to consistently estimate the average causal effects even in the presence of unmeasured confounding. However, in order for this consistent estimation to be achieved, several conditions must hold. In this article, we provide an overview of the IV approach, examine possible tests to check the prerequisite conditions, and illustrate how weak instruments may produce inconsistent and inefficient results.
Biological monitoring for occupational exposure to toluene.	A study was undertaken to examine the relationship between exposure of workers to toluene in the work environment and biological indicators of toluene exposure. The biological indicators studied were toluene in expired air, toluene in blood obtained by the finger prick method, and urinary hippuric acid. The study was undertaken in a factory in Singapore that manufactures speakers for audio systems. A total of 86 female workers exposed to toluene at the workplace and a control group of workers not exposed to toluene were examined. All of them were teetotalers, were nonsmokers, and gave no history of chronic drug usage. The 8-hr time-weighted average exposure level of toluene ranged from 1.6 ppm to 263 ppm. The study showed the expected toluene levels in finger prick blood was 1.4 micrograms/mL after an 8-hr exposure to 100 ppm of toluene. Toluene concentration in expired air of 16 ppm after an 8-hr exposure to 100 ppm compared favorably with other studies. The toluene in blood/expired air ratio was observed to be lower than in other studies. In this study, the expected urinary hippuric acid level for a 100-ppm exposure to toluene was 2.7 g/g creatinine. This level is higher than that recorded in other studies. The results showed that at low levels of toluene, urinary hippuric acid is not a valuable indicator of exposure. Toluene in expired air is the most reliable biological indicator of exposure to toluene.
Clinical and economic evaluation of oral ciprofloxacin after an abbreviated course of intravenous antibiotics.	Oral ciprofloxacin has the requisite pharmacokinetic and antibacterial properties to rival the potency of intravenous antibiotics. This study was designed to determine whether oral ciprofloxacin could abbreviate the course of intravenous antibiotics in the treatment of serious infections.
Low-dose amphotericin B prophylaxis against invasive Aspergillus infections in allogeneic marrow transplantation.	Invasive Aspergillus infections cause significant morbidity and mortality in marrow transplant patients. In this study, we examined whether administration of intravenous low-dose prophylactic amphotericin B could reduce the incidence and mortality associate with invasive aspergillosis in patients undergoing allogenic marrow transplantation.
Prenatal diagnosis of Chediak-Higashi syndrome in the cat by evaluation of cultured chorionic cells.	The autosomal recessive disease Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS) is a progressive and generally fatal disease of humans. The underlying genetic defect in CHS is unknown and prenatal diagnostic methods have not been applied to this disease. The purpose of this study was to determine if CHS chorionic cells expressed a characteristic of CHS--enlarged lysosomes--that would permit the prenatal diagnosis of the disease. Cats with CHS, which have been shown to be homologous with human CHS, were used as the model system in this study. Chorionic tissue samples were obtained from CHS and control cat fetuses and cultures of cells were established. Acid phosphatase was utilized as a marker of lysosomes and cultures of chorionic fibroblasts from CHS and control fetuses were stained histochemically for acid phosphatase. The diameter of the largest lysosomes in 150 cells of each fetus was determined. The mean (+/- SD) diameter (in microns) of the largest lysosomes of normal fetuses was 0.9 +/- 0.13 (range 0.5-7.0 microns), whereas the mean diameter of lysosomes in CHS chorionic cells was 3.9 +/- 0.65 microns (range 0.5-25 microns). These means were significantly different (P less than 0.0001). These data suggest that it should be possible to diagnose human CHS in the first trimester by chorionic villus sampling.
Epidemiologic studies utilizing surveys: accounting for the sampling design.	Since large-scale health surveys usually have complicated sampling schemes, there is often a question as to whether the sampling design must be considered in the analysis of the data. A recent disagreement concerning the analysis of a body iron stores-cancer association found in the first National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and its follow-up is used to highlight the issues.
Intracerebroventricular administration of hypertonic sodium chloride solution reduces the sensitivity of the baroreceptor heart reflex in anaesthetized rats.	Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of hypertonic sodium chloride solution increased blood pressure (BP) and shortened heart period (interbeat-interval: IBI) that is why an impairment in baroreflex regulation is believed to be part of that process. Therefore, in anaesthetized rats (1.35 g urethane/kg BW) the baroreceptor-heart reflex (BHR) was tested before and during i.c.v. infusion (15 min) of isotonic or hypertonic (0.6 M, 1.0 M) sodium chloride solution by inducing an acute BP rise by i.v. pressoric agents (phenylephrine, methoxamine). The evoked reflex prolongation of the IBI was taken to estimate the sensitivity of that BHR (delta ms/mm Hg). Whilst i.c.v. infusion of isotonic sodium chloride solution did not affect BHR sensitivity, hypertonic sodium chloride solution not only elevated BP and shortened IBI but also reset and impaired the BHR. Therefore, an increased central sensitivity to sodium chloride might not only increase BP but also impair the buffering capacity of the BHR against this rise and in this way support development of hypertension.
Altered water diffusivity in cortical association tracts in children with early deprivation identified with Tract-Based Spatial Statistics (TBSS).	Institutional rearing is associated with neurocognitive and behavioral difficulties. Although such difficulties are thought to reflect abnormal neurologic development resulting from early social deprivation (ED) and there is evidence for functional abnormality in children with histories of ED, the impact of early deprivation on brain anatomy has received little study in humans. The present study utilized an objective and sensitive neuroimaging analysis technique (Tract-Based Spatial Statistics) to evaluate white matter fractional anisotropy (FA) and diffusivity in a group of right-handed children with histories of ED (n = 17; mean age = 10.9 + 2.6 years) as compared with age-matched healthy controls (n = 15; mean age = 11.7 + or - 2.8 years). Participants underwent magnetic resonance imaging diffusion tensor imaging sequences and comprehensive neuropsychological evaluations. Results revealed reduced FA in frontal, temporal, and parietal white matter including components of uncinate and superior longitudinal fasciculi, in children with histories of ED, providing further support for limbic and paralimbic abnormalities in children with such histories. Furthermore, white matter abnormalities were associated with duration of time in the orphanage and with inattention and hyperactivity scores. It is suspected that the observed white matter abnormalities are associated with multiple depriving factors (e.g., poor prenatal care, postnatal stress) associated with institutional caregiving.
Comparative evaluation of single and combination chemotherapy in uterine cancer cell lines.	Controversy over the chemotherapy of uterine cancers still exists. This study was designed to directly compare the efficacy of various chemotherapy combinations, CAP (Cytoxan, Adriamycin, cisplatin), CAF (Cytoxan, Adriamycin, 5-fluorouracil), MF (melphalan, 5-fluorouracil), CP (Cytoxan, cisplatin), to single agents, Adriamycin (DXR), Cytoxan (CYT), cisplatin (DDP), and carboplatin (CARBO). Five human endometrial cell lines and one sarcoma cell line were used: AE7, ECC-1, HEC1A, HEC1B, AN3, and SKUT1B. The ATP chemosensitivity assay was used to determine dose-response curves of various treatments. By using mean IC50's for comparison, CAF and MF were twice as effective in cell kill as CAP (P = 0.01, 0.03, respectively). There was however no significant difference between CAF, MF, and DXR (P = 0.12, 0.46, 0.34). When dose comparison is used, combinations CAP, CAF, and MF appeared to be 3 to 15 times more potent than DDP, CYT, or CARBO. In summary, Adriamycin remained the most effective single drug for uterine cancer cell lines. Its cytotoxicity was equivalent to that of combinations CAP, CAF, and MF.
Development and use of statistical survey criteria for release of materials at a former uranium processing facility.	To minimize the amount of waste and to recover reusable resources during demolition of radioactively contaminated facilities, building construction material and equipment can be efficiently and successfully surveyed using statistical methods described in this article. A radioactive contamination survey strategy aimed at reducing survey technician labor while still providing assurance that only uncontaminated material is released for salvage is discussed. Provided is the survey method, rationale, and results of three case studies where this method was successfully employed at a former uranium processing facility.
Metatarsus primus varus. A statistical study.	A survey of 6000 schoolchildren discovered 36 cases of unilateral and 60 cases of bilateral hallux valgus, defined as a metatarsophalangeal angle of more than 14.5 degrees, measured on standing radiographs. Metatarsus primus varus was found not only in the early stages of hallux valgus but in the unaffected feet of children with unilateral hallux valgus. Adduction of the first metatarsal is not due to differential growth of the cortices of the first metatarsal nor is it a consequence of malalignment of the metatarsocuneiform joint. The intermetatarsal angle did not correlate with the angle of metatarsus adductus nor with the intercuneiform angle.
Mapping the cancer-specific EORTC QLQ-C30 to the preference-based EQ-5D, SF-6D, and 15D instruments.	To estimate models, via ordinary least squares regression, for predicting Euro Qol 5D (EQ-5D), Short Form 6D (SF-6D), and 15D utilities from scale scores of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30).
Evaluating minimal important differences for the FACT-Melanoma quality of life questionnaire.	Minimal Important Differences (MIDs) establish benchmarks for interpreting mean differences in clinical trials involving quality of life outcomes and inform discussions of clinically meaningful change in patient status. The purpose of this study was to assess MIDs for the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Melanoma (FACT-M).
The influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of verapamil.	The influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of verapamil at steady state has been studied in 74 individuals, age range 19-79 years, including healthy normotensive volunteers and patients with essential hypertension. The peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of verapamil were significantly higher in older subjects (r = 0.24; P = 0.03) and there was a non-significant age-related decrease in clearance/F and a non-significant increase in elimination half-life. These results suggest that increasing age is associated with changes in the pharmacokinetics of verapamil but these changes are small and unlikely to be of clinical significance.
Improvement of lesion detection by echographic image processing: signal-to-noise-ratio imaging.	Signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) images were constructed by a sliding window technique. Theoretical derivations of the first order statistical properties of SNR images are given for the case of intensity coding of the original images for low number densities and for the limit case of fully developed speckle. The original images were obtained by realistic simulations of backscattering by homogeneous media, while using a range of number densities of the scatterers (isotropic scattering). The SNR imaging method is illustrated by results obtained from simulated scattering media containing a lesion that is contrasting in reflectivity level or in number density of the scatterers. A considerable improvement in lesion detection is obtained if the primary difference from the background speckle is due to a different number density of the scatterers within the lesion.
Potential and limitations of angle-independent flow detection algorithms using radio-frequency and detected echo signals.	New techniques to estimate local blood and tissue velocities have been developed by several groups, including our own. The performance of these techniques is ultimately limited by the characteristics of ultrasonic imaging systems that determine the second-order statistics of speckle. These statistical parameters vary widely depending on the dimension of analysis in the image plane (lateral or axial) and on the echo input signal (radio-frequency or detected data). We use experiments and theory to examine these factors and describe their impact on the performance of our correlation-based technique for angle-independent tracking of blood or tissue motion. The results indicate that the second-order statistics determine the performance of our correlation-based algorithm and can be used to predict the performance of other angle-independent flow detection techniques.
Urinary hormonal concentrations and spinal bone densities of premenopausal vegetarian and nonvegetarian women.	We evaluated the relationships among nutrition, hormone concentrations, and bone density of the spine in 27 vegetarian and 37 nonvegetarian premenopausal women. The two groups were indistinguishable with respect to age, height, weight, menarche, years of formal education, and medical histories. The frequency of menstrual irregularity was significantly higher in the vegetarian group. The bone densities of the vegetarians and the nonvegetarians were not significantly different. Caffeine intake in both groups had a positive effect on urinary calcium excretion, but no association was observed between bone density and caffeine intake. Total fat, monosaturated fat, and oleic acid intake were positively associated with luteinizing hormone concentrations of the vegetarians only. Overall, the differences in dietary practices of these premenopausal vegetarian and nonvegetarian women did not appear to have major effects on bone biology or reproductive history.
Spontaneous reporting: how many cases are required to trigger a warning?	A statistical method is proposed to aid decisions on the recognition of new adverse drug reactions on the basis of spontaneous reports. The maximal number of associations between drug exposure and event is calculated from an independence test between drug and event, taking into account the expected incidence of that particular event in the general population. An example is given which illustrates the method.
Age-related changes in total protein and collagen metabolism in rat liver.	Liver collagen levels are determined by a balance between synthesis and degradation, processes known to have rapid rates in growing animals. We report age-related changes in liver collagen synthesis and degradation rates, as well as protein synthesis rates, in rats at five ages from 1 to 24 mo. Fractional collagen synthesis rates were determined after injection of [14C]proline with a flooding dose of unlabeled proline and its incorporation as hydroxy-[14C]proline into proteins. Fractional protein synthesis rates were based on the uptake of [14C]proline into proteins. Fractional collagen degradation rates were calculated from the difference between collagen fractional synthesis and deposition rates. Fractional rates of collagen synthesis were similar between 1 mo (23.0% +/- 4.6%/day) and 24 mo (19.6% +/- 3.4%/day) of age. Collagen deposition into the extracellular matrix was extremely low at every age studied; therefore degradation pathways accounted for the bulk of the collagen synthesized. The mean fractional synthesis rate for the total protein pool was unaltered between 1 mo (105.0% +/- 7.2%/day) and 15 mo (89.9% +/- 6.0%/day) of age, after which it increased to 234.9% +/- 33.0%/day (p less than 0.05) by 24 mo of age. These results indicate that liver collagen and total protein synthesis rates were maintained at relatively high levels during development and maturity but that protein synthesis rates were highest in senescent animals.
Changes of rabbit platelet function on simultaneous administration of ticlopidine hydrochloride and OKY-046.	Ticlopidine hydrochloride 180 mg was given orally to rabbits and OKY-046 50 mg was simultaneously administered intravenously. Ticlopidine inhibited the platelet aggregation induced by ADP when the Ticlopidine was orally administered separately, but the platelet aggregation induced by PAF, collagen and arachidonic acid (A.a.) was not significantly decreased. Simultaneous administration of Ticlopidine and OKY-046, as compared to administration of Ticlopidine alone, led to a significant decrease in the platelet aggregation induced by A.a. and collagen. The simultaneous administration did not give rise to an additive or synergistic effect on the platelet aggregation induced by ADP.
Emotional adaptation in children after liver transplantation.	The emotional adaptation of 25 children who had undergone successful liver transplantation at least 1 year previously was evaluated and compared with that of a control group of 26 children with diabetes mellitus, matched for age, gender, and socioeconomic status, and with reported normative values. With the use of parent- and self-report measures, emotional adaptation was assessed in terms of behavioral adjustment (Child Behavior Checklist), depressive experiences (Children's Depression Inventory), anxiety (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children), and self-concept (Piers-Harris Children's Self-concept Scale). Similar variables were also assessed by a projective personality measure (Rorschach). We found minimal differences in emotional adjustment between liver transplant and diabetic groups; on self-report measures, the adjustment of those with liver transplants was as good as, or better than, that of normative samples. However, on other tests, children with transplants differed from normative samples. On projective measures, liver transplant recipients had an increased number of depressive experiences, situationally related internal distress, and a greater tendency toward negative self-focus and evaluation. We conclude that in pediatric liver transplant recipients, behavioral and emotional adjustment is as good as in children with another chronic illness; in comparison with physically well children, the transplant recipients have subtle signs of emotional difficulties.
The cystic fibrosis gene and resting energy expenditure.	To determine whether the increase in resting energy expenditure in cystic fibrosis is associated with the primary genetic defect (delta F508) or with declining pulmonary function, or both, we tested resting every energy expenditure prospectively in 32 male subjects (aged 7 to 39 years) who were normally nourished and had good pulmonary function. They were categorized into three genotype groups on the basis of the presence or absence of delta F508 and pancreatic function. Mean resting energy expenditure was 104% of the predicted value and was not associated with genotype. When 29 subjects with normal nutritional status but variable lung function were added to the group, there was a strong correlation between declining pulmonary function and increased resting energy expenditure. We conclude that increased resting energy expenditure in normally nourished boys and men with cystic fibrosis appears to be more closely associated with declining pulmonary function than with genotype.
Detection of pulmonary embolism by dual energy CT: correlation with perfusion scintigraphy and histopathological findings in rabbits.	The purpose of the study was to compare the ability of dual energy CT (DECT) and perfusion scintigraphy (PS) to detect pulmonary embolism (PE) in a rabbit model. Gelfoam (n = 20) or saline (n = 4) was injected into the femoral vein of rabbits. After 2 h, DECT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) was used to create blood flow imaging (BFI) and fusion images. The rabbits then underwent PS. Pathological determination of locations and numbers of lung lobes with PE was recorded. The sensitivity and specificity for BFI, CTPA, fused images and PS were calculated using the pathological results as reference standards. Compared with pathological evaluation, CTPA correctly identified PE in 40 lobes and absence of emboli in 80 lobes, corresponding to a sensitivity and specificity of 100%. BFI and fused images correctly identified PE in 40 lobes and the absence of emboli in 78 lobes, corresponding to a sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 98%, respectively. PS correctly detected 27 lobes with PE and 65 lobes without PE, corresponding to a sensitivity and specificity of 68% and 81%, respectively. BFI, CTPA and fused images derived from a single contrast-enhanced DECT provide a higher diagnostic accuracy of detecting PE than PS in a rabbit model.
Costs and health utilities associated with extremely preterm birth: evidence from the EPICure study.	To estimate costs and health utilities associated with extremely preterm birth at approximately 11 years of age using evidence from a whole population study (the EPICure study).
South Korean time trade-off values for EQ-5D health states: modeling with observed values for 101 health states.	This study establishes the South Korean population-based preference weights for EQ-5D based on values elicited from a representative national sample using the time trade-off (TTO) method.
Patient experiences of continuity of cancer care: development of a new medical care questionnaire (MCQ) for oncology outpatients.	To adapt the Components of Primary Care Index (CPCI) to be applicable to oncology outpatients and to assess the reliability and validity of the adapted instrument (renamed the Medical Care Questionnaire [MCQ]).
Understanding the role of executive control in the implicit association test: why flexible people have small IAT effects.	The goal of the present research was to investigate the role of three central-executive functions-switching of mental sets, inhibition of prepotent responses, and simultaneous storage and processing (i.e., working-memory capacity)-in accounting for method variance in the Implicit Association Test (IAT). In two studies, several IATs with unrelated contents were administered along with a battery of central-executive tasks, with multiple tasks tapping each of the above executive functions. Method variance was found to be related to the switching factor, but not to the inhibition factor. There was also evidence for a small independent contribution of the working-memory capacity factor. The findings constrain process accounts of the IAT, lending support to an account in terms of task-set switching, and they have consequences for applications.
CT and MRI findings of calcified spinal meningiomas: correlation with pathological findings.	This study was designed to present characteristic CT and MR findings of calcified spinal meningiomas that correlate with pathological findings and to assess the efficacy of CT for the detection of calcifications within a mass in comparison to MRI.
Comparative analysis of length of stay, total costs, and treatment success between intravenous moxifloxacin 400 mg and levofloxacin 750 mg among hospitalized patients with community-acquired pneumonia.	This study aimed to evaluate the length of stay (LOS), costs, and treatment consistency among patients hospitalized with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) initially treated with intravenous (IV) moxifloxacin 400 mg or IV levofloxacin 750 mg.
Confidence in Altman-Bland plots: a critical review of the method of differences.	1. Altman and Bland argue that the virtue of plotting differences against averages in method-comparison studies is that 95% confidence limits for the differences can be constructed. These allow authors and readers to judge whether one method of measurement could be substituted for another. 2. The technique is often misused. So I have set out, by statistical argument and worked examples, to advise pharmacologists and physiologists how best to construct these limits. 3. First, construct a scattergram of differences on averages, then calculate the line of best fit for the linear regression of differences on averages. If the slope of the regression is shown to differ from zero, there is proportional bias. 4. If there is no proportional bias and if the scatter of differences is uniform (homoscedasticity), construct 'classical' 95% confidence limits. 5. If there is proportional bias yet homoscedasticity, construct hyperbolic 95% confidence limits (prediction interval) around the line of best fit. 6. If there is proportional bias and the scatter of values for differences increases progressively as the average values increase (heteroscedasticity), log-transform the raw values from the two methods and replot differences against averages. If this eliminates proportional bias and heteroscedasticity, construct 'classical' 95% confidence limits. Otherwise, construct horizontal V-shaped 95% confidence limits around the line of best fit of differences on averages or around the weighted least products line of best fit to the original data. 7. In designing a method-comparison study, consult a qualified biostatistician, obey the rules of randomization and make replicate observations.
Preliminary analysis of demographics and learning attributes of graduate entry medical students.	Students entering university are empowered to move towards self-directed professional learning and beyond didactic tuition. Graduate entry medical (GEM) students have prior experience of this transition from pedagogical to androgogical learning. We aimed to assess the demographics and learning attributes of GEM students.
Developmental effects of aggressive behavior in male adolescents assessed with structural and functional brain imaging.	Aggressive behavior is common during adolescence. Although aggression-related functional changes in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and frontopolar cortex (FPC) have been reported in adults, the neural correlates of aggressive behavior in adolescents, particularly in the context of structural neurodevelopment, are obscure. We used functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure the blood oxygenation level-depended signal and cortical thickness. In a block-designed experiment, 14-17-year old adolescents imagined aggressive and non-aggressive interactions with a peer. We show reduced vmPFC activation associated with imagined aggressive behavior as well as enhanced aggression-related activation and cortical thinning in the FPC with increasing age. Changes in FPC activation were also associated with judgments of the severity of aggressive acts. Reduced vmPFC activation was associated with greater aggression indicating its normal function is to exert inhibitory control over aggressive impulses. Concurrent FPC activation likely reflects foresight of harmful consequences that result from aggressive acts. The correlation of age-dependent activation changes and cortical thinning demonstrates ongoing maturation of the FPC during adolescence towards a refinement of social and cognitive information processing that can potentially facilitate mature social behavior in aggressive contexts.
Age-related morphological changes in smooth muscle and collagen content in human corpus cavernosum.	Aging process has been related to erectile dysfunction (ED) possibly due to morphological changes in corpus cavernosum among many other causes.
Correlation of ST-segment "hump sign" during exercise testing with impaired diastolic function of the left ventricle.	The appearance of a discrete upward deflection of the ST segment, termed the ST hump sign during exercise testing has been associated with resting hypertension and exaggerated blood pressure response to exercise.
Mitochondrial DNA damage is involved in apoptosis caused by pro-inflammatory cytokines in human OA chondrocytes.	Pro-inflammatory cytokines play a pivotal role in cartilage destruction during the progression of osteoarthritis (OA). Additionally, these cytokines are capable to generate reactive oxygen and nitrogen species within chondrocytes. Mitochondrion is a prime target of oxidative damage and an important player in aging and degenerative processes. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether these cytokines will alter the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) integrity and mitochondrial function in both normal and osteoarthritic human chondrocytes.
Variations in gene and protein expression in human nucleus pulposus in comparison with annulus fibrosus and cartilage cells: potential associations with aging and degeneration.	Regardless of recent progress in the elucidation of intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration, the basic molecular characteristics that define a healthy human IVD are largely unknown. Although work in different animal species revealed distinct molecules that might be used as characteristic markers for IVD or specifically nucleus pulposus (NP) cells, the validity of these markers for characterization of human IVD cells remains unknown.
Amyloid plaques disrupt resting state default mode network connectivity in cognitively normal elderly.	Important functional connections within the default mode network (DMN) are disrupted in Alzheimer's disease (AD), likely from amyloid-beta (Abeta) plaque-associated neuronal toxicity. Here, we sought to determine if pathological effects of Abeta amyloid plaques could be seen, even in the absence of a task, by examining functional connectivity in cognitively normal participants with and without preclinical amyloid deposition.
Personality traits and impaired health-related quality of life in patients with functional gastrointestinal disorders.	Negative affectivity and social isolation (Type D personality) are personality traits associated with poor health-related quality of life (HRQoL). We hypothesized these traits would be associated with impaired HRQoL and increased gastrointestinal symptom severity in functional gastrointestinal disorders.
Correlations between peripheral blood mononuclear cell production of BDNF, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-10 and cognitive performances in multiple sclerosis patients.	The aim of this study was to investigate the role of Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and inflammatory factors in the development of cognitive dysfunctions in Multiple Sclerosis (MS). We correlated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) production of BDNF, Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), Interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-10 with performances on specific neuropsychological tasks in a selected series of MS patients. We studied a sample of 30 patients with relapsing-remitting (RR)MS, segregated by gender and matched for age, education, disease duration, type of immunomodulating therapy, degree of disability and overall cognitive status. We found that low BDNF levels were correlated with increased time of execution on a divided attention and visual scanning task whereas high levels of IL-6 were correlated with low Mini Mental State Examination scores. We did not observe any significant correlations between IL-10, TNF-alpha levels and cognitive performances in our patients. In conclusion our study shows a correlation between low BDNF and high IL-6 production by PBMCs and poorer performances in cognitive tasks in RRMS patients suggesting a possible role of these factors in cognitive impairment in MS.
10mM glucosamine prevents activation of proADAMTS5 (aggrecanase-2) in transfected cells by interference with post-translational modification of furin.	Glucosamine has been previously shown to suppress cartilage aggrecan catabolism in explant cultures. We determined the effect of glucosamine on ADAMTS5 (a disintegrin-like and metalloprotease domain (reprolysin type) with thrombospondin type-1 motifs 5), a major aggrecanase in osteoarthritis, and investigated a potential mechanism underlying the observed effects.
The association of prevalent medial meniscal pathology with cartilage loss in the medial tibiofemoral compartment over a 2-year period.	To investigate the association of different types of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-detected medial meniscal pathology with subregional cartilage loss in the medial tibiofemoral compartment.
Hip osteoarthritis and risk factors in elderly Korean population.	To investigate the prevalence of hip osteoarthritis (OA) in a community-based elderly Korean population and to identify its risk factors.
Hospitals as interpretation systems.	In this study of 162 hospitals, it was found that the chief executive officer's (CEO's) interpretation of strategic issues is related to the existing hospital strategy and the hospital's information processing structure. Strategy was related to interpretation in terms of the extent to which a given strategic issue was perceived as controllable or uncontrollable. Structure was related to the extent to which an issue was defined as positive or negative, was labeled as controllable or uncontrollable, and was perceived as leading to a gain or a loss. Together, strategy and structure accounted for a significant part of the variance in CEO interpretations of strategic events. The theoretical and managerial implications of these findings are discussed.
P value and the theory of hypothesis testing: an explanation for new researchers.	In the 1920s, Ronald Fisher developed the theory behind the p value and Jerzy Neyman and Egon Pearson developed the theory of hypothesis testing. These distinct theories have provided researchers important quantitative tools to confirm or refute their hypotheses. The p value is the probability to obtain an effect equal to or more extreme than the one observed presuming the null hypothesis of no effect is true; it gives researchers a measure of the strength of evidence against the null hypothesis. As commonly used, investigators will select a threshold p value below which they will reject the null hypothesis. The theory of hypothesis testing allows researchers to reject a null hypothesis in favor of an alternative hypothesis of some effect. As commonly used, investigators choose Type I error (rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true) and Type II error (accepting the null hypothesis when it is false) levels and determine some critical region. If the test statistic falls into that critical region, the null hypothesis is rejected in favor of the alternative hypothesis. Despite similarities between the two, the p value and the theory of hypothesis testing are different theories that often are misunderstood and confused, leading researchers to improper conclusions. Perhaps the most common misconception is to consider the p value as the probability that the null hypothesis is true rather than the probability of obtaining the difference observed, or one that is more extreme, considering the null is true. Another concern is the risk that an important proportion of statistically significant results are falsely significant. Researchers should have a minimum understanding of these two theories so that they are better able to plan, conduct, interpret, and report scientific experiments.
Lack of benefit of methotrexate in severe, steroid-dependent asthma. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	To determine the effect of low-dose methotrexate in asthmatic patients on steroid use, asthma symptom scores, pulmonary function, airway reactivity, blood cellular components, and immunoglobulin E levels.
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate predicts early relapse and survival in early-stage Hodgkin disease. The EORTC Lymphoma Cooperative Group.	To assess the value of an elevated (greater than 30 mm/h) Westergren erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) for predicting early relapse and survival after therapy in patients with clinical stage I or II Hodgkin disease.
Using signal detection theory to test the impact of negative emotion on sub-clinical paranoia.	A novel experimental paradigm for measuring state paranoia by means of signal detection theory was evaluated. A liberal response bias, indicating the tendency to recognize facial expressions as threatening, was expected to reflect paranoia. Against theoretical expectations, heightened paranoia questionnaire scores were associated with a non-liberal bias, which was not affected by negative emotion per se. However, subsequent analyses revealed that, if anxious, participants with heightened paranoia adopted a comparatively more liberal response bias. These findings corroborate the eminent role of anxiety in paranoia and demonstrate that state paranoia can be captured with the presented paradigm.
MAPKs are essential upstream signaling pathways in proteolytic cartilage degradation--divergence in pathways leading to aggrecanase and MMP-mediated articular cartilage degradation.	Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and aggrecanases are essential players in cartilage degradation. However, the signaling pathways that results in MMP and/or aggrecanase synthesis and activation are not well understood. We investigated the molecular events leading to MMP- and aggrecanase-mediated cartilage degradation.
Research process. Concluding the research project.	This fifth article in a series of six on the research process provides guidelines for concluding a research project. Attention is directed toward a need for the researcher to be sensitive to the persons who supported the project. The other significant aspect of concluding a research project involves activities associated with analyzing the data, preparing the results, and finalizing the findings.
Maturation of collagen fibril network structure in tibial and femoral cartilage of rabbits.	The structure and composition of articular cartilage change during development and growth, as well as in response to varying loading conditions. These changes modulate the functional properties of cartilage. We studied maturation-related changes in the collagen network organization of cartilage as a function of tissue depth.
Threat-confirming belief bias and symptoms of anxiety disorders.	This study tested the hypothesis that a generally enhanced threat-confirming reasoning style would set people at risk for the development of anxiety disorders. Therefore, a non-clinical student sample (N=146) was presented with a series of linear syllogisms referring to threatening and safety themes and with the anxiety subscale of the SCL-90 and trait anxiety in order to correlate reasoning with anxiety. Half of the syllogisms' conclusions were in line and half were in conflict with generally believable threat and safety related convictions (e.g., potassium cyanide is more toxic than tylenol; The Netherlands are safer than Afghanistan). For each type of syllogism, half was logically valid and half invalid. Overall, participants showed a clear interference of believability on logical reasoning, which is known as the belief bias effect. Furthermore, in line with the idea that people are generally characterized by a better safe than sorry strategy, the pattern indicated that the participants took more time to solve invalid threat related syllogisms as well as valid safety related syllogisms. This threat-confirming belief bias was however not especially pronounced in participants reporting relatively intense anxiety symptoms. Thus, the present findings do not lend support to the idea that a generally enhanced threat-confirming belief bias is a diathesis for the development of anxious psychopathology.
Osteoarthritis may not be a one-way-road of cartilage loss--comparison of spatial patterns of cartilage change between osteoarthritic and healthy knees.	To explore whether longitudinal change in cartilage thickness in femorotibial subregions of knees with radiographic osteoarthritis (ROA) differs from that in healthy knees.
Measurement and characterization of soft tissue behavior with surface deformation and force response under large deformations.	Soft tissue characterization with the inverse finite element method (FEM) optimization algorithm plays an important role in developing a physical model for medical simulations. However, tissue characterization that takes into account comprehensive boundary conditions for large deformations remains a challenge due to computational complexities and a lack of experimental data. In this study, soft tissue experiments on porcine livers were performed to measure the surface deformation and force response of soft tissues resulting from indentation loading depending on various indentation depths and two different tip shapes. Measurements were carried out with a three-dimensional (3D) optical system and a force transducer. Using the surface deformation and force response results, we estimated the maximum radius of influence, which can be utilized to determine the minimal required soft tissue model size for the FEM simulation. Considering the influence of the boundary conditions, the model was designed and integrated into an inverse FEM optimization algorithm to estimate the model parameters. The mechanical behavior of large deformations was characterized with FE modeling via hyperelastic and linear viscoelastic models.
Alternative user interface devices for improved navigation of CT datasets.	The workflow in radiology departments has changed dramatically with the transition to digital PACS, especially with the shift from tile mode to stack mode display of volumetric images. With the increasing number of images in routinely captured datasets, the standard user interface devices (UIDs) become inadequate. One basic approach to improve the navigation of the stack mode datasets is to take advantage of alternative UIDs developed for other domains, such as the computer game industry. We evaluated three UIDs both in clinical practice and in a task-based experiment. After using the devices in the daily image interpretation work, the readers reported that both of the tested alternative UIDs were better in terms of ergonomics compared to the standard mouse and that both alternatives were more efficient when reviewing large CT datasets. In the task-based experiment, one of the tested devices was faster than the standard mouse, while the other alternative was not significantly faster. One of the tested alternative devices showed a larger number of traversed images during the task. The results indicate that alternative user interface devices can improve the navigation of stack mode datasets and that radiologists should consider the potential benefits of alternatives to the standard mouse.
Healthcare utilization changes in relation to treatment intensification with insulin aspart in patients with type 2 diabetes. Data from a large US managed-care organization.	Most patients with type 2 diabetes eventually require exogenous insulin therapy to achieve good glycemic control due to the progressive nature of the disease. Insulin aspart is a rapid-acting insulin analog developed for prandial use. This study aimed to illustrate the implications on healthcare costs of adding insulin aspart to basal therapy in a real-world setting.
The mammographic correlations with Basal-like phenotype of invasive breast cancer.	Mammography contributes to the improvement of breast carcinoma survival through early detection and treatment of breast lesions. The basal-like phenotype has been found to be an independent poor prognostic factor for breast cancer. The aim of this study was to determine the mammographic correlates of the basal-like phenotype of invasive breast cancer, and to more precisely predict patient outcome and those individuals who will be responsive to a specific therapeutic regimen.
Serum enzyme alterations in chronic muscle disease. A biopsy-based diagnostic assessment.	The results of interpretation of muscle biopsies were compared retrospectively to activities of serum enzymes and isoenzymes. A total of 137 patients seen at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in 1986 and 1987 were included in this study. Serum enzymes evaluated were CK, AST, LD, and aldolase (ALS), as well as the percentage CK-MB isoenzyme. The units of CK-MB and the ratios of CK to AST, LD, and ALS were calculated. Descriptive statistics, Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance, and stepwise logistic regression were performed. A diagnostic algorithm was constructed using a computer-assisted rule generation program. Myopathic diseases yielded a greater mean increase in serum enzyme activity than atrophic diseases. By multivariate stepwise logistic regression, increases in serum AST and CK activity were independently associated with the presence of inflammation in a muscle biopsy specimen. The diagnostic algorithm allowed for the separation of myopathies from atrophies and could identify cases of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy and polymyositis.
Evidence for geographical variations in the prevalence of schizophrenia in rural Ireland.	Geographical variations in the rate of occurrence of schizophrenia have been the subject of much speculation and controversy, but it has proved extremely difficult to establish the existence of the phenomenon within a given study area. Using current inpatient and outpatient records and information from key informants active in the community, this study sought to identify all cases of schizophrenia in 36 District Electoral Divisions, constituting a clinical catchment area of 25,178 persons in a rural Irish county. Though the overall prevalence rate (3.3 per 1000) was unremarkable, this obscured a substantial and significant variation in prevalence rates (from 0.0 to 14.3 per 1000) between District Electoral Divisions. Prevalence rates in five District Electoral Divisions made particular contributions to the overall deviation from a statistical model for random occurrences in space. The results indicate spatial inhomogeneity in the prevalence of schizophrenia in rural Ireland and imply geographical variation in environmental or genetic factor(s) of etiologic relevance.
Combining the in vivo comet and micronucleus assays: a practical approach to genotoxicity testing and data interpretation.	Despite regulatory directives requiring the reduction of animal use in safety testing, recent modifications to genotoxicity testing guidelines now propose the use of two in vivo genotoxicity assays as a follow-up to an in vitro positive (International Conference on Harmonization Consensus Draft Guidance S2[R1] released March, 2008). To address both goals, the in vivo comet and micronucleus (MN) assays can be successfully combined into one informative study. Combining these two assays with such differences in sensitivity, endpoints measured and the type of data generated significantly improves upon the current standard capabilities for detecting genotoxicity without requiring additional animals. But to take full advantage of the benefits of incorporating the comet assay in safety testing, these same differences must be recognized and considered. Developed from over 15 years experience using the in vivo comet and MN assays in genotoxicity testing of chemicals and pharmaceuticals, this paper presents guidelines for the appropriate experimental design, dose selection and data interpretation for combined in vivo comet/MN assay studies. To illustrate the approach, data from combined assay studies are presented and discussed.
Development and validation of a new instrument to evaluate the ease of use of patient-controlled analgesic modalities for postoperative patients.	To describe the development and psychometric evaluation of a questionnaire assessing the ease of use that patients associate with patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) modalities.
Use of a prescription-based measure of antiretroviral therapy adherence to predict viral rebound in HIV-infected individuals with viral suppression.	The aim of the study was to assess whether a simple, routinely available measure of antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence predicts viral rebound at the next HIV viral load (VL) measurement in virally suppressed patients.
Using digital image correlation to determine bone surface strains during loading and after adaptation of the mouse tibia.	Previous models of cortical bone adaptation, in which loading is imposed on the bone, have estimated the strains in the tissue using strain gauges, analytical beam theory, or finite element analysis. We used digital image correlation (DIC), tracing a speckle pattern on the surface of the bone during loading, to determine surface strains in a murine tibia during compressive loading through the knee joint. We examined whether these surface strains in the mouse tibia are modified following two weeks of load-induced adaptation by comparison with contralateral controls. Results indicated non-uniform strain patterns with isolated areas of high strain (0.5%), particularly on the medial side. Strain measurements were reproducible (standard deviation of the error 0.03%), similar between specimens, and in agreement with strain gauge measurements (between 0.1 and 0.2% strain). After structural adaptation, strains were more uniform across the tibial surface, particularly on the medial side where peak strains were reduced from 0.5% to 0.3%. Because DIC determines local strains over the entire surface, it will provide a better understanding of how strain stimulus influences the bone response during adaptation.
Use of personal computers for statistical analyses]	We report the range in elapsed time for various statistical analyses and for the same logistic regression analysis in 23 different personal computers (PCs). Without a floating-point coprocessor, the elapsed time increased from ten to 113 minutes in the same PC. Elapsed time ranged from two to 45 minutes from 80486 to 8086 PCs with a floating-point coprocessor. The PC equipment we need strongly depends on the type and frequency of the statistical analyses we are to perform. If a floating-point coprocessor is installed, the 80286/80287 PC family may be fast enough for most users.
Avoiding non-independence in fMRI data analysis: leave one subject out.	Concerns regarding certain fMRI data analysis practices have recently evoked lively debate. The principal concern regards the issue of non-independence, in which an initial statistical test is followed by further non-independent statistical tests. In this report, we propose a simple, practical solution to reduce bias in secondary tests due to non-independence using a leave-one-subject-out (LOSO) approach. We provide examples of this method, show how it reduces effect size inflation, and suggest that it can serve as a functional localizer when within-subject methods are impractical.
Quantifying lung structure. Experimental design and biologic variation in various models of lung injury.	The lung is a complex organ composed of a large number of different cell types of varying size and shape. Quantification of lung structure requires an understanding of how the distribution of specific cells and their characteristics affect the accuracy of measurement made on them and how to optimize experimental design for a morphometric study. We have studied lung structural modifications in a variety of lung injuries over the last decade. Extensive quantitative data from EM morphometric studies of pulmonary tissue have been collected. These data provide a unique opportunity to study the accuracy and efficiency of methods used to quantitate lung structure. We present and discuss novel computation-intensive methods for the estimation of biologic variability, sampling error, and measurement error. A new concept, unnested analysis of variance for stratified sampling and the use of computer-based methods for statistical analysis (the bootstrap method) and optimizing experimental design (nonlinear minimization procedure) are described in this report. Examples of experimental designs with their corresponding levels of accuracy and cost are also provided. The number of samples needed for a given level of precision is affected by the volume density of the structure being measured. The most important determinant for the overall accuracy of a morphometric study is the number of animals studied. Biologic variations between samples within an animal and among animals can vary significantly as a function of the model of injury studied.
Propafenone treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias. A randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial in patients tolerating oral therapy.	To test the hypothesis that propafenone, administered orally, prevents symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular arrhythmias.
A prognostic system for transient ischemia or minor stroke.	To build a prognostic system for patients with carotid transient ischemic attack or minor stroke.
The role of the United Network for Organ Sharing and designated organ procurement organizations in organ retrieval for transplantation.	With the increasing success of organ transplantation in this country, there are increasing numbers of patients who are awaiting a transplantable organ. Congress has established a national Organ Procurement and Transplant Network, which is administered by the United Network for Organ Sharing. Organ retrieval is performed by 70 organ procurement organizations, each having a designated service area. The need for transplantable organs falls further and further behind the increasing demand.
Risk of dementia in first-degree relatives of patients with Alzheimer's disease and related disorders.	First-degree relatives of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are at greater risk for dementia when compared with the relatives of their healthy peers, but not when compared with the relatives of patients with Parkinson's disease. This may indicate that the risk of dementia in these relatives is not specific to AD or that these studies are biased. We obtained a family history and vital status information on each first-degree relative of patients attending a clinic and in a group of recruited healthy elderly subjects. Patients formed two groups: probable AD and other forms of dementia or cognitive disorders without dementia. The odds of dementia in first-degree relatives did not differ between patient groups. The odds of dementia in relatives of patients with probable AD or other forms of dementia was six times that in the relatives of the healthy elderly subjects. The cumulative incidence of dementia increased with age in the first-degree relatives of all subjects. Approximately 50% of the first-degree relatives of patients with AD were demented by age 91 years, but almost the same number of the other patient group's relatives were demented as well. That figure was never reached in the healthy elderly subject's relatives. Because the risk of dementia in first-degree relatives of patients with AD was similar to that for patients with other disorders, we cannot exclude the possibility that this is the result of selection and information biases. Our investigation implies that the increased risk of dementia may not be specific to relatives of patients with AD; the risk may also be increased in first-degree relatives of patients with other neurologic disorders.
The relationship between exercise intensity and the sweat lactate excretion rate.	The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of increases in exercise intensity on the sweat lactate concentration and lactate excretion rate. Eight healthy male volunteers complete a 90-min exercise bout of treadmill walking in a 35 degrees C and 40% relative humidity environmental chamber. During the exercise trial, the subjects performed three 30-min ordered exercise bouts at 60, 70, and 80% of their age-predicted maximum heart rate (HR(max)), with 10 min of rest outside the chamber between bouts. Sweat rate was measured volumetrically during each of the three exercise bouts on the flexor surface of the proximal half of the right forearm. Sweat lactate concentration ([lactate](sweat)) was measured in each sample and multiplied by the forearm sweat rate to calculate the lactate excretion rate (LER). There was a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in the [lactate](sweat) at the 70 and 80% HR(max) exercise intensities compared to the 60% HR(max) exercise intensity. Conversely, the LER increased significantly at the highest two exercise intensities compared to the 60% HR(max) exercise intensity. Such data suggest that increases in exercise intensity require an increase in lactate production, as measured by the LER. Furthermore, the decreased [lactate](sweat) at the higher exercise intensities is most likely the result of increased sweat production causing a dilution effect on the [lactate](sweat), thus limiting its ability to accurately indicate the metabolic activity of the sweat gland.
Estimating zero-strain states of very soft tissue under gravity loading using digital image correlation.	This paper presents several experimental techniques and concepts in the process of measuring mechanical properties of very soft tissue in an ex vivo tensile test. Gravitational body force on very soft tissue causes pre-compression and results in a non-uniform initial deformation. The global digital image correlation technique is used to measure the full-field deformation behavior of liver tissue in uniaxial tension testing. A maximum stretching band is observed in the incremental strain field when a region of tissue passes from compression and enters a state of tension. A new method for estimating the zero-strain state is proposed: the zero strain position is close to, but ahead of the position of the maximum stretching band, or in other words, the tangent of a nominal stress-stretch curve reaches minimum at lambda greater or similar 1. The approach, to identify zero strain by using maximum incremental strain, can be implemented in other types of image-based soft tissue analysis. The experimental results of 10 samples from seven porcine livers are presented and material parameters for the Ogden model fit are obtained. The finite element simulation based on the fitted model confirms the effect of gravity on the deformation of very soft tissue and validates our approach.
Analysis of change: modeling individual growth.	Research on change is complicated by problems of measurement and analysis stemming from a conceptualization of change as a series of accumulating increments and decrements. In contrast, individual growth curves depict change as a continuous process underlying individual performance. These two perspectives are reviewed, and some problems with the use of difference scores in the study of change are clarified. Traditional methods are contrasted with growth curve analysis for the purposes of measuring change and studying its correlates. An illustrative example of the use of growth curves is provided from research on recovery of cognitive function following pediatric closed head injury.
Using growth modeling to examine systematic differences in growth: an example of change in the functioning of families at risk of maladaptive parenting, child abuse, or neglect.	This longitudinal study provides an example of the use of exploratory growth modeling to examine changes over time in the functioning of 172 families who underwent treatment in an innovative prevention program, Project Good Start. Two types of research question are addressed: a within-family question (Does family functioning change over time in families at risk of maltreatment who are receiving special early support services?) and a between-family question (Are changes in family functioning systematically related to selected characteristics of family background and treatment?). Results of the study highlight the heterogeneity across families in the direction and rate of family function change and its systematic relationship with the family profile on entry into intervention. Although treatment seems successful in stabilizing and improving the family functioning of most at-risk families, problems of violence/maltreatment and distressed parenting act to defer successful treatment.
Modeling transitions in latent stage-sequential processes: a substance use prevention example.	This article illustrates the use of latent transition analysis (LTA), a methodology for testing stage-sequential models of individual growth. LTA is an outgrowth of latent class theory and is a particular type of latent Markov model emphasizing the use of multiple manifest indicators. LTA is used to compare the fit of two models of early adolescent substance use onset and to assess the effects of a school-based substance use prevention program on Ss measured in 7th grade and again in 8th grade. Several interesting findings emerged. First, a model of substance use onset including both alcohol and tobacco use as possible starting points fit better than a model that included alcohol use as the only starting point. Second, Ss who had tried tobacco but not alcohol in in 7th grade seemed to be on an accelerated onset trajectory. Third, the normative education prevention program was generally successful, except for the students who had tried only tobacco in 7th grade.
Contingency interaction analysis in psychotherapy.	This article introduces (a) a computerized coding procedure that rates words and utterances in terms of emotion, cognition, and contract and (b) a contingency method of analyzing verbal interactions. Using transcripts of sessions conducted by 3 master therapists with 1 client, the rating procedure and contingency correlation analyses supported the study's hypotheses. Therapists' utterances were characterized by significantly different amounts of emotion, cognition, and contracts, indicating that communication styles varied in the relative emphasis placed on these attributes. Differences suggest that the therapists responded differently to emotional, cognitive, and contract utterances and that the client's responses were different across the 3 therapist interviews. Split halves of the interviews within therapists and within client sessions were not different, providing further evidence of reliability of the coding and contingency procedures.
A theoretical model of the perimenopausal process.	The purpose of this qualitative investigation was to generate theory grounded in the responses of perimenopausal women about the process of menopause. A purposive sample of 12 perimenopausal women was interviewed to discover the menopausal process. Data were generated from interviews, two-month daily logs, and field notes. A substantive theory of Integrating a Changing Me identified the perimenopausal process, which included four categories: Tuning Into Me, My Body and Moods, which described the awareness of physical and emotional changes that initiated the beginnings of menopause; Facing a Paradox of Feelings, which reflected the thoughts, perceptions, and feelings experienced by perimenopausal women. Contrasting Impressions, which described the assimilation of information and the formulation of the woman's own personal meaning; and Making Adjustments, which included changes made by the women in response to this process. Implications for health care and education of perimenopausal women are discussed.
Longitudinal Gompertzian analysis of ischemic heart disease mortality in the U.S., 1962-1986: a method of demonstrating the deterministic dynamics describing its decline.	Age-adjusted mortality rates for ischemic heart disease (IHD) in the United States from 1962 to 1986 were subjected to longitudinal Gompertzian analysis. Age-adjusted IHD mortality rate distributions between age 40 and 85 years were determined by a variable environmental factor and an extrapolated common intersect point. The environmental factor declined (improved) 3.73-fold for men and 2.07-fold for women in 1986 as compared to 1962. However, the environmental factor in 1986 remained 15.34 fold more conductive to IHD mortality among men than women. The age at the extrapolated common intersect point was 126.7 years for men and 267.4 years for women. Longitudinal Gompertzian analysis of IHD mortality data suggests that IHD will remain a significant cause of mortality for men despite advances in risk factor reduction and medical therapy.
Sex differences in orbitofrontal gray as a partial explanation for sex differences in antisocial personality.	Attention is increasingly being given to understanding sex difference in psychopathology to better understand the etiology of disorders. This study tests the hypothesis that sex differences in ventral and middle frontal gray volume contribute to sex differences in antisocial personality disorder (APD) and crime. Participants were recruited from temporary employment agencies, consisting of normal controls, substance/alcohol-dependent controls, axis I/II psychiatric controls and individuals with APD. An independent sample of female volunteers was also recruited. Magnetic resonance imaging volumes of superior frontal, middle frontal, inferior frontal, orbital frontal and rectal gyral frontal gray matter, and dimensional scores of APD and criminal behavior were assessed. APD males when compared with male controls showed an 8.7% reduction in orbitofrontal gray volume, a 17.3% reduction in middle frontal gray and a 16.1% reduction in right rectal gray. Reduced middle and orbitofrontal volumes were significantly associated with increased APD symptoms and criminal offending in both males and females. Males as a whole had reduced orbitofrontal and middle frontal gray volume when compared with females, and controlling for these brain differences reduced the gender difference in the antisocial personality/behavior by 77.3%. Findings were not a function of psychiatric comorbidity, psychosocial risk factors, head injury or trauma exposure. Findings implicate structural differences in the ventral and middle frontal gray as both a risk factor for APD and as a partial explanation for sex differences in APD.
Epilepsy surgery program in Tunisia: an example of a Tunisian French collaboration.	To describe the first Tunisian epilepsy surgery program establishment and to emphasize on its originality that is an exchange and surgery decision taken by two Mediterranean neurophysiological teams, via the Internet.
Effect of antihypertensives on sexual function and quality of life: the TAIM Study.	To evaluate treatment of mild hypertension using combinations of diet and low-dose pharmacologic therapies.
Quality-of-life-adjusted evaluation of adjuvant therapies for operable breast cancer. The International Breast Cancer Study Group.	To evaluate a single cycle of adjuvant chemotherapy compared with longer duration chemotherapy for premenopausal women or chemoendocrine therapy for postmenopausal women with operable breast cancer using a quality-of-life-oriented end point, Q-TWiST (quality-adjusted analysis of TWiST: Time Without Symptoms and Toxicity).
Emboli in infective endocarditis: the prognostic value of echocardiography.	To determine whether vegetations visualized on two-dimensional echocardiography are an independent risk factor for the development of subsequent emboli in patients with infective endocarditis and to assess the timing of emboli relative to the initiation of antimicrobial therapy.
Comparison of silent and symptomatic ischemia during exercise testing in men.	To compare angina and ST-segment depression during exercise testing, as markers for coronary artery disease.
Psychological and behavioral implications of abnormal mammograms.	To evaluate women's psychological responses to abnormal mammograms and the effect on mammography adherence. To identify psychological responses and other factors that predict mammography adherence in women with normal or abnormal mammograms.
X-ray diffraction evidence for the presence of discrete water layers on the surface of membranes.	X-ray diffraction spacings in multilayered membranes obtained from frog sciatic nerves were found to increase in discrete steps of approx. 5 A during swelling. These observed jumps in the repeat period suggest that the lipid bilayers exist in distinct states of hydration, and perhaps the swelling occurs by step-wise addition of water layers between the polar head groups. Our analysis and statistical tests of this hypothesis are presented.
A general model for the interaction of foreign molecules with lipid membranes: drugs and anaesthetics.	A general microscopic interaction model is proposed to describe the changes in the physical properties of phospholipid bilayer membranes due to foreign molecules which, to different degrees, partition between the membrane phases and the aqueous environment. The model is a multi-state lattice model for the main phase transition of lipid bilayers and the foreign molecules are assumed to intercalate as interstitials in the lattice. By varying the model parameters, the diversity in the thermodynamic properties of the model is explored using computer-simulation techniques which faithfully take account of the thermal fluctuations. The calculations are performed in both the canonical and the grand canonical ensembles corresponding to the cases where the concentration of foreign molecules in the membrane is either fixed or varies as the external conditions are changed. A classification of the diverse thermal behaviour, specifically with regard to the phase diagram, the specific heat, the density fluctuations, and the partition coefficient, is suggested with a view to rationalizing a large body of experimental measurements of the effects of different foreign molecules on membrane properties. The range of foreign molecules considered includes compounds as diverse as volatile general anaesthetics like halothane, cocaine-derived local anaesthetics like procaine, calcium-channel blocking drugs like verapamil, antidepressants like chlorpromazine, and anti-cancer agents like adriamycin.
Acute shift in immune response to microbial activators in very-low-birth-weight infants.	Investigation of lymphocyte activation in vitro to microbial pathogens was undertaken in very-low-birth-weight infants during the first 2 weeks of life. Twenty-three infants with birth weights less than 1500 g were studied on day 1. Normal adults (n = 23) and cord blood from seven full-term infants were used as controls. Longitudinal studies were also carried out on seven of the 23 infants 2 weeks following delivery. Results indicated that lymphocyte responses of very-low-birth-weight infants on day 1 of life were significantly greater than those of both adult controls and full-term infants, particularly to Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcal protein A. In contrast, response to the T cell mitogen phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) was significantly less in very-low-birth-weight infants than in adult controls and full-term infants. The seven very-low-birth-weight infants studied showed a down-regulation of immune response in the 2 weeks following birth, such that responses on day 14 were significantly less than those on day 1 for the same activators. This shift in immune response appears to have important implications for the immune development and host defence in the post-natal period.
Sleep deprivation attenuates experimental stroke severity in rats.	Indirect epidemiological and experimental evidence suggest that the severity of injury during stroke is influenced by prior sleep history. The aim of our study was to test the effect of acute sleep deprivation on early outcome following experimental stroke. Young male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=20) were subjected to focal cerebral ischemia by reversible right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 90 min. In 10 rats, MCAO was performed just after 6-h of total sleep deprivation (TSD) by "gentle handling", whereas the other rats served as controls. Neurological function during the first week after stroke was monitored using a battery of behavioral tests investigating the asymmetry of sensorimotor deficit (tape removal test and cylinder test), bilateral sensorimotor coordination (rotor-rod and Inclined plane) and memory (T-maze and radial maze). Following MCAO, control rats had impaired behavioral performance in all tests. The largest impairment was noted in the tape test where the tape removal time from the left forelimb (contralateral to MCAO) was increased by approximately 10 fold (p<0.01). In contrast, rats subjected to TSD had complete recovery of sensorimotor performance consistent with a 2.5 fold smaller infarct volume and reduced morphological signs of neuronal injury at day 7 after MCAO. Our data suggest that brief TSD induces a neuroprotective response that limits the severity of a subsequent stroke, similar to rapid ischemic preconditioning.
The impact of increasing neurological disability of multiple sclerosis on health utilities: a systematic review of the literature.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating disease, accompanied by neurological symptoms of varying severity. Utilities are a key summary index measure used in assessing health-related quality of life in individuals with MS.
Sample size determination for bioequivalence assessment by means of confidence intervals.	The statistical analysis of bioequivalence assessment has been consolidated in recent years through the work of Schuirmann [1987], Westlake [1988] and Hauschke et al. [1990], and this has been reflected in the CPMP Note for Guidance on Bioavailability and Bioequivalence and in the joint recommendations of the APV (International Association for Pharmaceutical Technology) and ZL (Central Laboratories of German Pharmacists) during a recent workshop in support of EC-Guidelines [Blume et al. 1990]. Since the decision procedure based on the inclusion of the shortest 90%-confidence interval in the bioequivalence range is the procedure of choice, and as this is equivalent to the two one-sided tests procedure, the sample size determination is based on the power of the latter. Following the approach of Phillips [1990] for the additive model, corresponding nomograms for the more relevant multiplicative model are given in this paper for various ratios of the expected means for test and reference and various coefficients of variation.
Geographic distribution of autism in California: a retrospective birth cohort analysis.	Prenatal environmental exposures are among the risk factors being explored for associations with autism. We applied a new procedure combining multiple scan cluster detection tests to identify geographically defined areas of increased autism incidence. This procedure can serve as a first hypothesis-generating step aimed at localized environmental exposures, but would not be useful for assessing widely distributed exposures, such as household products, nor for exposures from nonpoint sources, such as traffic. Geocoded mothers' residences on 2,453,717 California birth records, 1996-2000, were analyzed including 9,900 autism cases recorded in the California Department of Developmental Services (DDS) database through February 2006 which were matched to their corresponding birth records. We analyzed each of the 21 DDS Regional Center (RC) catchment areas separately because of the wide variation in diagnostic practices. Ten clusters of increased autism risk were identified in eight RC regions, and one Potential Cluster in each of two other RC regions.After determination of clusters, multiple mixed Poisson regression models were fit to assess differences in known demographic autism risk factors between the births within and outside areas of elevated autism incidence, independent of case status.Adjusted for other covariates, the majority of areas of autism clustering were characterized by high parental education, e.g. relative risks >4 for college-graduate vs. nonhigh-school graduate parents. This geographic association possibly occurs because RCs do not actively conduct case finding and parents with lower education are, for various reasons, less likely to successfully seek services.
The 14-item Paediatric Throat Disorders Outcome Test: a valid, sensitive, reliable, parent-reported outcome measure for paediatric throat disorders.	We modified and abbreviated a pre-existing research questionnaire, the Tonsil and Adenoid Health Status Instrument, to make it suitable for rapid completion as a disease-specific, health-related quality of life research tool for children with tonsil and adenoid disease in the UK. We determined the main psychometric properties of the resulting 14-item Paediatric Throat Disorders Outcome Test.
Long-term memory of acute postsurgical pain.	The long-term memory of acute postoperative pain intensity was evaluated in a population of patients who had undergone the removal of impacted third molar teeth. The results suggest a positive correlation between experienced and remembered intensities of postsurgical pain for up to 3 years after surgery. They also suggest that males and females do not differ significantly in their reports of postsurgical pain intensity, nor do they differ significantly in their memories of pain intensity. Pain recall using verbal pain descriptors was more reliable than recall with visual analog scales. Patient reports of intensity of past postsurgical acute pain, particularly those reports obtained with verbal descriptors, may be useful in the planning of treatment and in the selection and evaluation of analgesic regimens.
Smoking behavior in context: where and when do people smoke?	Cue-reactivity research in humans has primarily focused on proximal cues, but little is known about the role of distal cues, such as environments and situations, in cue-reactivity. The aim of this study was to get an overview of contexts in which people smoke and to assess the relationship between contexts and smoking urges. Moderately addicted Belgian smokers (N = 110) recorded each smoked cigarette during four days and described the place and situation and the feeling they experienced when starting to smoke. The data demonstrate that different contexts were related to differences in the amount of craving and enjoyment that was experienced. Finally, differences in (amount of) contexts could be predicted by the level of nicotine dependence. These results are relevant for conceptualizing and optimizing smoking addiction treatments.
On estimating efficacy from clinical trials.	We define 'biologic efficacy' as the effect of treatment for all persons who receive the therapeutic agent to which they were assigned. It measures the biologic action of treatment among compliant persons. In a randomized trial with one treatment and one placebo control, one can theoretically estimate efficacy by comparing persons who complete the treatment regimen with controls who similarly complete the control regimen. In practice, however, we make this comparison with reservation because a control protocol often presents a different challenge for compliance than does the treatment, so that the compliant subgroups are not comparable. Standard practice employs intent-to-treat comparisons in which one compares those randomized to treatment and control without reference to whether they actually received the treatment. Intent-to-treat comparisons estimate the 'programmatic effectiveness' of a treatment rather than its biologic efficacy. This paper introduces and derives the statistical properties of an alternative estimator of biologic efficacy that avoids the potential selection bias inherent in a comparison of compliant subgroups. The method applies to randomized trials with a dichotomous outcome measure, whether or not a placebo is given to the control group. The idea is to compare the compliers in the treatment group to an inferred control subgroup chosen to eliminate selection bias. The methodology was motivated by and is illustrated in the analysis of a randomized community trial of the impact of vitamin A supplementation on children's mortality.
Estimation of the design effect in community intervention studies.	This paper considers the estimation of the variance of a mortality rate in community intervention studies with little or no replication of intervention regimens. Our approach in estimation of this cluster sampling variance is to determine the variance for simple random sampling and multiply it by a design effect which we calculate with use of information obtained from other sources. When the county is the unit of randomization and the outcome is mortality, we calculate the design effect as the ratio of the age adjusted mortality rates for single stage cluster sampling relative to simple random sampling; we use information from all counties in a state in the calculations. We apply this approach empirically for breast cancer mortality. We found that these design effects were dependent on length of time for accumulation of deaths (1.1 for one year up to 3.5 for eight years) and were quite consistent for the three states and nine years considered in the investigation. We present a model that accounts for the time dependence of the design effect and we show it provides a good representation of the observed relationship.
Health resources management and physician control in a San Francisco, California, hospital.	The continued escalation in health care spending has caused money to become an increasingly limited resource, which may eventually affect the ability of health professionals to provide complete health care services. Health care payers have stressed efficiency and the appropriateness of health care measures and are putting greater financial pressures on health professionals by making them more accountable for services provided. Hospitals and physicians must take a more active role in monitoring health care delivery and work together to improve performance efficiency. Efficiency can be gained through a comprehensive program that emphasizes high-quality care and the effective use of health care resources. The Health Resource Management Program is a model for carrying out this function that integrates data analysis and physician input and education.
Tyrosine hydroxylase, interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha are overexpressed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from schizophrenia patients as determined by semi-quantitative analysis.	The aim of this study is to profile the peripheral biomarkers (tyrosine hydroxylase, TH; interleukin-1beta, IL-1beta; and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, TNF-alpha) for schizophrenia and explore their relations with clinical symptoms. Thirty-nine patients with schizophrenia were evaluated using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), and 25 siblings and 30 normal healthy subjects were used as controls. The mRNA expression levels of TH, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, as determined with semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, were all significantly increased in both patients (3-fold) and siblings (2-fold) as compared with normal control. Both IL-1beta and TNF-alpha were significantly correlated with scores on the general psychopathology subscale of the PANSS. A significant positive correlation between IL-1beta and TH expression was found in both sibling and normal controls, but not in patients, while a positive correlation between IL-1beta and TNF-alpha was significant in all the groups. These results suggest that TH, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha are overexpressed in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of schizophrenia patients, perhaps due to the hereditary factors. IL-1beta and TNF-alpha may influence the symptoms of schizophrenia in the cognition dysfunction and anxiety/depression domains of the PANSS.
Equivalence testing in microarray analysis: similarities in the transcriptome of human atherosclerotic and nonatherosclerotic macrophages.	We focus on similarities in the transcriptome of human Kupffer cells and alveolar, splenic, and atherosclerotic plaque-residing macrophages. We hypothesized that these macrophages share a common expression signature. We performed microarray analysis on mRNA from these subsets (4 patients) and developed a novel statistical method to identify genes with significantly similar expression levels. Phenotypic and functional diversity between macrophage subpopulations reflects their plasticity to respond to microenvironmental signals. Apart from detecting differences in expression profiles, the comparison of the transcriptomes of different macrophage populations may also allow the definition of molecular similarities between these subsets. This new method calculates the maximum difference in gene expression level, based on the estimated confidence interval on that gene's expression variance. We listed the genes by equivalence ranking relative to expression level. FDR estimation was used to determine significance. We identified 500 genes with significantly equivalent expression levels in the macrophage subsets at 5.5% FDR using a confidence level of α = 0.05 for equivalence. Among these are the established macrophage marker CD68, IL1 receptor antagonist, and MHC-related CD1C. These 500 genes were submitted to IPA and GO clustering using DAVID. Additionally, hierarchical clustering of these genes in the Novartis human gene expression atlas revealed a subset of 200 genes specifically expressed in macrophages. Equivalently expressed genes, identified by this new method, may not only help to dissect common molecular mechanisms, but also to identify cell- or condition-specific sets of marker genes that can be used for drug targeting and molecular imaging. 
The impact of prolonged continuous wakefulness on resident clinical performance in the intensive care unit: a patient simulator study.	To evaluate the impact of prolonged continuous wakefulness on resident performance under controlled experimental conditions.
Postoperative pain relief in children from the parascalene injection technique.	Nineteen pediatric patients aged 6 months to 12 years scheduled for elective upper extremity surgery were randomly assigned to receive either a parascalene block or sham injection. Both groups received a potent inhalational agent for operative anesthesia. At completion of surgery, the treatment group received an injection of 0.5 ml/kg 0.25% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine into the brachial plexus via the parascalene approach with the aid of a nerve stimulator; the control group received a subcutaneous needle puncture only. Patients in the parascalene group had superior postoperative analgesia, as evidenced by significantly less opioid requirement in the first 12 postoperative hours and by significantly lower scores on an objective pain scale. We found the parascalene approach to the brachial plexus a simple and reliable analgesic technique in anesthetized children.
Intercostal nerve block for minor breast surgery.	Two anesthetic procedures, intercostal nerve block (ICNB) and general anesthesia, were evaluated in 45 female patients scheduled for minor breast surgery. The study was designed to compare ICNB with general anesthesia for breast surgery with respect to efficacy, surgical stress and postoperative analgesia and to evaluate epinephrine and ornipressin as vasoconstrictors in the local anesthetic solution. Thirty patients received ICNB of T3-T7 unilaterally using 2% lidocaine plus epinephrine (15 patients, Group A) and 2% lidocaine plus ornipressin (15 patients, Group B). The control group consisted of 15 patients receiving a general anesthetic. The highest median lidocaine plasma level was 2.8 micrograms/ml in those patients who received epinephrine and 5.3 micrograms/ml in those who received ornipressin. There were statistically significantly higher lidocaine plasma levels in Group B than in Group A after 10, 30 and 60 minutes from injection while the two groups did not differ significantly at the 20- and 90-minute time intervals. Before and during surgery, epinephrine and norepinephrine plasma levels were highest in the epinephrine group, whereas, postoperatively, the plasma levels of both catecholamines were highest in the patients receiving general anesthesia. The latter patients experienced significantly more nausea and vomiting than the regional anesthesia groups. Patients with regional anesthesia required significantly less analgesics postoperatively than the patients receiving general anesthesia.
Effects of etidocaine administered epidurally on changes in somatosensory evoked potentials after dermatomal stimulation.	The effect of lumbar epidural anesthesia with similar volumes (approximately 20 ml) of 1% and 1.5% etidocaine on early (less than 0.5 seconds) somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) to electrical stimulation of the S1, L1, and T10 dermatomes was examined in two groups of ten patients in a randomized, double-blind study. Level of analgesia to pinprick was T7.7 +/- 0.9 in the 1% group and T6.6 +/- 0.6 in the 1.5% group and all patients had total motor block. Despite similar analgesia to pinprick, SEP amplitude was more reduced in the 1.5% group, in which SEPs were abolished in all patients at the L1 level.
The severity of dependence score correlates with medication overuse in persons with secondary chronic headaches. The Akershus study of chronic headache.	The objective was to compare the Severity of Dependence Scale (SDS) score and pattern of medication use in persons with secondary chronic headache (>or= 15 days/month for at least 3 months) in a cross-sectional epidemiological survey. A posted questionnaire screened for chronic headache. Neurological residents interviewed those with self-reported chronic headache. The International Classification of Headache Disorders was used. Split file methodology was employed for data analysis. People with secondary chronic headaches were identified in an age and gender stratified sample of 30,000 30-44 year olds from the general population. The interviews and examinations were conducted at the Akershus University Hospital, Oslo, Norway. The main outcome measure was the SDS score in those with and without medication overuse. Fifty-five (49%) of the 113 persons with secondary chronic headaches were found to have medication overuse. Fifty-eight percent overused simple analgesics and 31% overused combination analgesics. The SDS score was significantly higher among those with than without medication overuse (5.5 vs. 1.9). The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values were 0.82, 0.82, 0.82 and 0.83, respectively. Thus the SDS score correlates with medication overuse, and a high SDS score suggests dependency-like behaviour in persons with secondary chronic headache. The use of SDS score in subjects with frequent pain episodes may contribute to the detection of medication overuse and better management of this group of patients.
Balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration for gastric varices: the relationship between the clinical outcome and gastrorenal shunt occlusion.	The rupture of gastric varices is associated with high mortality rate. Balloon-occluded retrograde transvenous obliteration (B-RTO), a minimally invasive procedure that was introduced in the mid-1990s, has been widely accepted in Japan. Several reports have indicated that B-RTO yields satisfactory results; however, few reports have discussed the recurrence of gastric varices after this therapy. The purpose of this study is to retrospectively evaluate the technical aspects of B-RTO and the recurrence of gastric varices after treatment with this procedure.
Normotensive young men with family histories of hypertension gain weight and decrease their intraerythrocyte sodium content during a 5-year follow-up.	Young normotensive men matched for age and body mass index with (n = 16) and without (n = 13) family histories of hypertension were investigated at baseline and after 5 years of follow-up with respect to blood pressure, body weight and intracellular sodium content. Subjects with positive family histories of hypertension increased significantly in body weight (from 81.9 +/- 11.5 kg to 89.5 +/- 11.4 kg, P less than 0.001) compared to subjects with negative family histories of hypertension (from 79.9 +/- 10.8 kg to 80.7 +/- 12.2 kg, NS). Their blood pressure did not differ initially (137 +/- 12/75 +/- 11 mmHg vs. 135 +/- 8/72 +/- 9 mmHg), but was reduced in subjects without family histories of hypertension (to 125 +/- 3/68 +/- 13 mmHg) in the follow-up examination. At follow-up, body mass index showed a positive correlation with blood pressure among subjects with positive family histories of hypertension (r = 0.77, P less than 0.001). At baseline, subjects with hypertensive fathers had significantly higher intraerythrocyte sodium levels than subjects with normotensive parents. At re-examination 5 years later, this difference was no longer present. We conclude that normotensive subjects with positive family histories of hypertension are predisposed to gain weight rather than to show an increase in blood pressure at this age. Normalization of intracellular sodium content, as found in the present study, could be a consequence of this weight gain and the ensuing metabolic adaption.
Determinants of carotid intima-media thickness: a population-based ultrasonography study in eastern Finnish men.	We investigated the determinants of maximal intima-media thickness of common carotid arteries in a population-based sample of 1224 Eastern Finnish men aged 42, 48, 54 or 60 years. A high-resolution B-mode ultrasonographic examination was performed as part of the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study (KIHD). The maximal intima-media thickness (IMT) varied between 0.48 mm and 4.09 mm (mean value +/- SD, 0.94 mm +/- 0.38 mm). Age (standardized partial coefficient, beta = 0.238, P less than 0.0001), ambulatory pulse pressure (beta = 0.130, P less than 0.0001), cigarette-years of smoking (beta = 0.125, P less than 0.0001), serum LDL cholesterol concentration (beta = 0.125, P less than 0.0001), history of ischaemic heart disease (beta = 0.125, P less than 0.0001), pre-exercise systolic blood pressure (beta = 0.070, P = 0.0113) and diabetes (beta = 0.068, P = 0.0072) were most strongly associated with IMT. This study confirms the role of systolic blood pressure, smoking and serum LDL cholesterol levels as major risk factors for increased carotid intima-media thickness.
Felodipine in the treatment of hypertensive type II diabetics: effect on glucose homeostasis.	The effect of felodipine on glucose tolerance was evaluated in 18 male type II diabetic patients treated with diet alone, who were hypertensive despite beta-blocker treatment. The study was a double-bind cross-over comparison of placebo and felodipine in addition to beta-blockade. Oral glucose tolerance tests were performed at randomization and at the end of each 4-week double-blind treatment period. The doses of felodipine given were 5 mg b.i.d. for 2 weeks followed by 10 mg b.i.d. for a further 2 weeks. Blood pressure was significantly reduced during felodipine treatment, whereas heart rate remained unaltered. HbA1c and fasting insulin levels did not change during the treatment periods. Fasting and maximal blood glucose levels were not altered between any of the treatment periods. However, there was a small but statistically significant increase (median increase 4%) in the area under the glucose concentration vs. time curve after felodipine as compared to placebo treatment. This increase was not considered to be clinically significant in the short term, but the finding merits further investigation in a rigorous long-term study.
Determinants of mild fasting hypertriglyceridaemia in non-insulin-dependent diabetes.	Factors contributing to fasting hypertriglyceridaemia were studied in 20 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes--nine with normal triglyceride concentrations [fasting triglyceride 0.94 (range 0.58-1.23) mmol l-1] and eleven with mild fasting hypertriglyceridaemia [fasting triglyceride 2.4 (1.82-4.0) mmol l-1]. The patients with hypertriglyceridaemia were more obese [body mass index 29.0 (24.6-33.8) vs. 25.7 (21.9-30.1) kg m-2, P less than 0.05] and demonstrated impaired glucose disposal in response to exogenous insulin at isoglycaemia [insulin sensitivity index, SIp 0.7 (0.27-2.5) vs. 2.4 (0.62-5.1) ml m-2 min per mU l-1, P less than 0.001]. Basal non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) and glycerol concentrations were higher and were suppressed to a lesser extent during isoglycaemic hyperinsulinaemia. Fasting glucose and apolipoprotein B concentrations were higher in the hypertriglyceridaemic patients, but lipoprotein lipase activities were similar in the two groups. When the effect of obesity was removed (by weight-matching six normotriglyceridaemic with seven hypertriglyceridaemic patients) basal NEFA and glycerol concentrations and the suppression of NEFA in response to insulin remained significantly different between the two groups. We propose that defects in both the glucoregulatory and antilipolytic actions of insulin contribute to mild fasting hypertriglyceridaemia in NIDDM, and that these defects cannot be attributed solely to obesity. These disorders of insulin action may also have important implications for the postprandial metabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and hence atherogenesis.
Ileal compensation for age-dependent loss of jejunal function in rats.	Adaptive responses of brush border hydrolases and crypt cell proliferation were measured in the jejunum and ileum of 4-mo-old adult and 28-mo-old senescent male Wistar rats. Responses were measured after rats were deprived of food and then refed with a normoprotein diet (17% protein) or an isoenergetic high protein diet (70% protein). The young rats deprived of food then refed for 18 h with the high protein diet showed better body weight recovery than did old animals. Withholding food for 48 h induced a more pronounced drop of sucrase activity in the intestine of the old rats relative to young rats. Refeeding the high protein diet caused a better recovery of sucrase activity in the jejunum of young rats relative to senescent rats. In the aged animals, sucrase activity in the jejunum remained significantly lower after refeeding both diets. Compared with nourished controls, aged rats showed enzyme activity to be completely restored in the ileum. The high protein diet increased aminopeptidase activity in the jejunum and ileum of young rats, in contrast to the senescent rats in which the increase of enzyme activity was restricted to the ileum. In the jejunum of aged rats, the cell migration rate from crypt base to villus tip was reduced after refeeding, but no age-related changes were observed in the ileum. Our results indicate that the jejunum of senescent rats exhibits reduced adaptive capacities that may be partly compensated by enhanced ileal functions.
Collagen production in fasted and food-restricted rats: response to duration and severity of food deprivation.	Malnutrition is associated with defects in connective tissue metabolism such as altered growth and wound healing. Because collagen is the major protein in most tissues, we determined the threshold for induction of altered collagen production by partial food restriction in rats. Groups of animals were fasted 2 or 4 d or were fed 20-100% of a predetermined food intake for 4 to 8 d. Collagen and noncollagen protein production in articular cartilage were determined using purified collagenase digestion of collagen labeled for 2 h in vitro with [3H]proline. Significant decreases in collagen (P less than 0.01) were seen in rats after 4 d of 40% (weight-losing rats) or after 8 days of 80% (weight-gaining rats) ad libitum intake. Collagen production decreased with both duration and degree of food deprivation; after 8 d of 20% intake, collagen was less than 10% that of controls fed ad libitum (P less than 0.001). In contrast, noncollagen protein production was significantly decreased only after 4 or 8 d of less than 40% intake (weight-losing rats). Maximum suppression of noncollagen protein was to approximately 65% of levels in controls fed ad libitum (P less than 0.01) and was not further reduced in fasted rats. Insulin-like growth factor-I levels were significantly decreased with duration and severity of diet in parallel with changes in collagen. The degree and sensitivity of altered collagen production to small changes in food intake suggest close regulation of this peptide and a potential role for decreased collagen synthesis in connective tissues during mild states of undernutrition.
Vitamin A status and the immune response to pneumococcal polysaccharide: effects of age and early stages of retinol deficiency in rats.	Production of antibodies to pneumococcal polysaccharide from Streptococcus pneumoniae, type III was determined in young rats at different ages and stages of vitamin A deficiency. At 30, 35 and 45 d of age, serum retinol concentrations of vitamin A-depleted rats were 46, 35 and 9%, respectively, of the serum retinol concentrations of pair-fed controls. Specific antibody production was low at 30 d of age for both vitamin A-depleted rats and control rats. Between 30 and 45 d of age, antibody production increased considerably in normal rats; however, the response of vitamin A-depleted rats was only 22% (P less than or equal to 0.001) that of controls at 35 d of age and 8% that of controls (P less than or equal to 0.001) for 45-d-old rats. Lymphocyte populations were examined by flow cytometry. The numbers of immunoglobulin M- and immunoglobulin D-positive cells changed with age, but not as a result of dietary treatment. The numbers of total T cells or helper and suppressor T cell subsets did not differ with age or with vitamin A status. These studies showed that the normal antibody response to pneumococcal polysaccharide develops rapidly after 30 d of age in the rat, that this antibody response is impaired even during the early stages of vitamin A deficiency, and that impaired antibody production does not seem to be accompanied by quantitative differences in splenic lymphocyte populations.
Statistical process control for the pharmaceutical industry.	An overview of Total Quality Management and Statistical Process Control is provided with a goal of focusing on their implementation. The implementation is presented as three distinct areas. These are the philosophical and behavioral requirements, the statistical monitoring, and the statistical design. The first emphasizes the culture of problem solving and continuous improvement, the second focuses on the control charts, and the third on the Taguchi methods. After this overview, a discussion of common mistakes that occur in practice during the implementation of these methods is provided. Again, managerial mistakes are separated from the more specific technical or statistical mistakes. The paper concludes with recommendations concerning applications specific to the pharmaceutical industry.
The dynamic assessment of right-ventricular function and its relation to exercise capacity in heart failure.	To evaluate right-ventricular (RV) function during stress echocardiography (SE) and to assess its relationship with exercise capacity in heart failure (HF) patients.
Sex-based differences in the behavioral and neuronal responses to food.	Sex-based differences in food intake related behaviors have been observed previously. The objective of this study was to examine sex-based differences in the behavioral and neuronal responses to food. 22 women and 21 men were studied. After 6 days of controlled eucaloric feeding, ad libitum energy intake (EI) was measured for 3 days. Appetite ratings using visual analog scales were obtained before and after each meal. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in the overnight fasted state on the last day of eucaloric feeding while subjects were presented visual stimuli of food and neutral non-food objects. While hunger and prospective consumption were not different between sexes, women had higher post-meal satiety ratings and dietary restraint than men. Images of hedonic foods resulted in significantly greater activation of lateral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and parietal cortex in women as compared to men. No brain regions were more activated in men as compared to women. Men increased their EI during the ad libitum diet phase. While measures of appetite or feeding behaviors did not correlate with either neuronal activation or subsequent EI, DLPFC activation in response to hedonic foods was negatively correlated with EI. In summary, greater prefrontal neuronal responses to food cues in women may suggest increased cognitive processing related to executive function, such as planning, guidance or evaluation of behavior. Finally, increased DLPFC activation, perhaps relating to inhibitory cognitive control in response to food cues may be a better predictor of food intake than behavioral measures.
Progressive changes in microglia and macrophages in spinal cord and peripheral nerve in the transgenic rat model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	The role of neuroinflammation in motor neuron death of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is unclear. The human mutant superoxide dismutase-1 (hmSOD1)-expressing murine transgenic model of ALS has provided some insight into changes in microglia activity during disease progression. The purpose of this study was to gain further knowledge by characterizing the immunological changes during disease progression in the spinal cord and peripheral nerve using the more recently developed hmSOD1 rat transgenic model of ALS.
Toxicity comparison of chlorinated and brominated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans in industrial source samples by HRGC/HRMS and enzyme immunoassay.	Limited information is available on the applicability of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin/furan (PCDD/F) toxicity assays to their brominated counterparts: polybrominated dibenzo-p-dioxins/furans (PBDDs/Fs). We estimated the toxicity of mixtures of chlorinated, brominated, and mixed bromochloro-dioxins and -furan (PBCDDs/Fs) laboratory standards using a chemically-activated luciferase gene expression cell bioassay (CALUX). The relative effects potency (REP) values obtained were comparable to the World Health Organization (WHO) toxic equivalency factors (TEFs) and in agreement with the concept of additive congener toxicity of mixtures of dioxins and furans. Enzyme immunoassay (EIA)-based toxic equivalents (TEQs), however, showed overestimation for PCDDs/Fs (0-4 orders of magnitudes higher) and underestimation for PBDDs/Fs (0-1 orders of magnitude lower) when compared to high resolution gas chromatography/high resolution mass spectrometry (HRGC/HRMS)-based TEQ calculation (using WHO TEFs) in samples from an industrial source line. No correlation was found between the EIA and the HRGC/HRMS data, which could be attributed to differences in homologue-specific cross-reactivity responses, sample matrix type, and presence of other compounds competing for antibody binding in the immunoassay.
Expert visual guidance of ultrasound for telemedicine.	Expert visual guidance (EVG) is computer assistance that displays to the examiner how the image plane moves towards (or away from) a desired anatomical location as the ultrasound probe is manipulated over the patient's body. We tested whether EVG by a remote expert could assist inexperienced examiners in acquiring abdominal ultrasound images. The inexperienced examiners were 20 medical students, who were randomly assigned to verbal instruction alone (Group 1) or to EVG (Group 2). The examiners were tested on their ability to visualize the abdominal aorta and the right kidney. Group 2 was more successful in identifying specified anatomy in longitudinal and cross-sectional views of the aorta (95 vs. 75%, P = 0.032) and kidney (98 vs. 88%, P = 0.09). The groups succeeded equally well in obtaining a true cross-sectional view of the aorta. Kidney length was also similar when measured by the two groups. The results demonstrate that an inexperienced ultrasonographer can be significantly assisted by EVG compared to verbal instruction alone. This could be useful for tele-mentoring in rural hospitals as well as for teaching, both in person and at a remote site.
Quality of life and alexithymia in somatoform pain disorder]	Patients with somatoform pain disorders (SPD) frequently display reduced quality of life (QoL) and increased levels of alexithymia. This study investigated the association of QoL and alexithymia in a sample of SPD.
Erythrocyte cholinesterase enzyme activity and hemoglobin values in cacao farmers of southwestern Nigeria as related to insecticide exposure.	The blood of 76 cacao farmers from Southwestern Nigeria was monitored for erythrocyte cholinesterase enzyme activity (AChE) and hemoglobin values before and after insecticide application. Eight farmers had 30% to 50% baseline AChE activity, which suggests chronic organophosphate insecticide poisoning. AChE activity inhibition suggestive of occupational exposure (20% to 30%) was manifested by 28% of the farmers, whereas 30% to 50% inhibition suggestive of hazard was manifested by 11%. Significantly depressed post-insecticide application hemoglobin values were similarly recorded among the farmers. AChE activity inhibition, depression in hemoglobin values, and the years of involvement of the farmers in insecticide application on cacao, were positively correlated. Occupational exposure hazard due to organophosphate insecticides is therefore real among cacao farmers in Southwestern Nigeria. Regular biomonitoring of their blood for AChE activity and hemoglobin level is necessary.
Relationship of the Brief UCSD Performance-based Skills Assessment (UPSA-B) to multiple indicators of functioning in people with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.	This study assessed the relationship between multiple indicators of 'real-world' functioning and scores on a brief performance-based measure of functional capacity known as the Brief University of California San Diego (UCSD) Performance-based Skills Assessment (UPSA-B) in a sample of 205 patients with either serious bipolar disorder (n = 89) or schizophrenia (n = 116).
The association between the harm avoidance subscale of the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire and serotonin transporter availability in the brainstem of male volunteers.	The relationship between harm avoidance scores of the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire and serotonin transporter availability, as approximated using single photon emission computed tomography with [(123)I] ADAM, was examined. Our results showed a significant negative correlation between the harm avoidance total score, as well as the asthenia subscore, and serotonin transporter availability, particularly in males.
Cardiovascular fitness and risk factors of healthy African Americans and Caucasians.	African Americans have a higher prevalence of and mortality rates from cardiovascular disease than Caucasians. One important risk factor for cardiovascular disease is poor cardiovascular fitness. We quantified associations between fitness and related primary risk factors for cardiovascular disease in healthy African Americans and Caucasians.
The reliability of patient-reported pregnancy outcome data.	Pregnancy and neonatal outcome information is frequently used in disease management to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of prenatal interventions and for other research and reporting activities. The purpose of this study was to determine if a telephone interview process is a reliable methodology for collecting pregnancy outcomes. High-risk patients from a large maternal-fetal medicine practice who received outpatient preterm labor management services from January 1996 to June 2001 were identified. Patient-reported pregnancy outcome data for 285 mothers and 478 infants were collected via a telephone interview by a perinatal nurse and compared to pregnancy outcome data abstracted from the maternal and infant hospital records. Overall, concordance and/or Kappa coefficients between maternal report and the medical record were high for delivery date (96.4%), birth weight within 100 grams (88.9%), Cesarean delivery (99.0%, Kappa = 0.98), and high-level nursery admission (91.2%, Kappa = 0.82). Both singleton and multiple gestation types accurately reported pregnancy outcome information. A telephone interview with a skilled nurse can be a reliable methodology for collection of valuable clinical and research data related to pregnancy outcome. Data collected in this manner and maintained in a database may be used with a high level of confidence by health care providers, payers, and researchers.
Personal and social factors associated with the perception of health and the perception of happiness in a nonclinical adolescent population]	A theoretical conceptualization of the relationship between health and happiness and associated factors was studied using a structural equation model.
The spiritual brain: selective cortical lesions modulate human self-transcendence.	The predisposition of human beings toward spiritual feeling, thinking, and behaviors is measured by a supposedly stable personality trait called self-transcendence. Although a few neuroimaging studies suggest that neural activation of a large fronto-parieto-temporal network may underpin a variety of spiritual experiences, information on the causative link between such a network and spirituality is lacking. Combining pre- and post-neurosurgery personality assessment with advanced brain-lesion mapping techniques, we found that selective damage to left and right inferior posterior parietal regions induced a specific increase of self-transcendence. Therefore, modifications of neural activity in temporoparietal areas may induce unusually fast modulations of a stable personality trait related to transcendental self-referential awareness. These results hint at the active, crucial role of left and right parietal systems in determining self-transcendence and cast new light on the neurobiological bases of altered spiritual and religious attitudes and behaviors in neurological and mental disorders.
Membrane potential dynamics of GABAergic neurons in the barrel cortex of behaving mice.	Computations in cortical circuits are mediated by synaptic interactions between excitatory and inhibitory neurons, and yet we know little about their activity in awake animals. Here, through single and dual whole-cell recordings combined with two-photon microscopy in the barrel cortex of behaving mice, we directly compare the synaptically driven membrane potential dynamics of inhibitory and excitatory layer 2/3 neurons. We find that inhibitory neurons depolarize synchronously with excitatory neurons, but they are much more active with differential contributions of two classes of inhibitory neurons during different brain states. Fast-spiking GABAergic neurons dominate during quiet wakefulness, but during active wakefulness Non-fast-spiking GABAergic neurons depolarize, firing action potentials at increased rates. Sparse uncorrelated action potential firing in excitatory neurons is driven by fast, large, and cell-specific depolarization. In contrast, inhibitory neurons fire correlated action potentials at much higher frequencies driven by slower, smaller, and broadly synchronized depolarization.
Relation of coronary artery plaque location to extent of coronary artery disease studied by computed tomographic angiography.	Distal coronary artery disease (CAD) is less amenable to surgery or stenting compared with proximal disease. However, little is known about the epidemiology of distal versus proximal CAD.
Relationship of aortic valve calcification with coronary artery calcium severity: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA).	Aortic valve calcification (AVC) and atherosclerosis share causative and pathologic features.
The effect of religiosity and campus alcohol culture on collegiate alcohol consumption.	Religiosity and campus culture were examined in relationship to alcohol consumption among college students using reference group theory.
The virtuous drinker: character virtues as correlates and moderators of college student drinking and consequences.	The present study examined the relationship between alcohol use and positive psychology's character virtues1 in a college student sample. Each of the virtues of wisdom, courage, humanity, justice, temperance, and transcendence were examined as protective factors and moderators of drinking consequences.
Physical activity behaviors of students of a rural historically black college.	Physical activity can have a positive impact on health disparities among African Americans.
Determining the direction of causality between psychological factors and aircraft noise annoyance.	In this paper, an attempt is made to establish the direction of causality between a range of psychological factors and aircraft noise annoyance. For this purpose, a panel model was estimated within a structural equation modeling approach. Data were gathered from two surveys conducted in April 2006 and April 2008, respectively, among the same residents living within the 45 Level day-evening-night contour of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, the largest airport in the Netherlands (n=250). A surprising result is that none of the paths from the psychological factors to aircraft noise annoyance were found to be significant. Yet 2 effects were significant the other way around: (1) from 'aircraft noise annoyance' to 'concern about the negative health effects of noise' and (2) from 'aircraft noise annoyance' to 'belief that noise can be prevented.' Hence aircraft noise annoyance measured at time 1 contained information that can effectively explain changes in these 2 variables at time 2, while controlling for their previous values. Secondary results show that (1) aircraft noise annoyance is very stable through time and (2) that changes in aircraft noise annoyance and the identified psychological factors are correlated.
Psychometric properties of the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale: overall and across demographic groups living within the United States.	The purpose of this study was twofold: (a) to evaluate the scaling assumptions and component structure of and present normative data for the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES) using a sample of US adults (N = 503), both overall and across demographic subgroups and (b) to provide new data regarding the relationship between the two RSES subcomponents of self-competence (SC) and self-liking (SL), and other demographic and clinical variables. As hypothesized, all psychometric tests supported the underlying structure of the RSES. Overall RSES scores varied significantly across age, racial and ethnic, education, employment status, income, and marital status groups. Furthermore, differences between SC and SL were also found across groups differing in gender, age, employment status, and marital status groups. The implications and limitations of this study are discussed, with an emphasis on clinical relevance.
Determining the number of patient charts necessary for a reliable assessment of practicing family physicians' performance.	In many countries, peer assessment programs based on the examination of patient charts are becoming a standard to assess physician's clinical performance. Although data on validity of the process are acceptable, reliability issues need some improvement. This article addresses the rarely studied aspect of optimal number of patient charts for an acceptable reliable assessment. Fifteen patient charts for each of a group of 20 practicing physicians were independently reviewed by 4 professional peer assessors. Generalizability (G) and decision (D) studies were applied to the data. It appears that as few as 10 patient charts are sufficient for any assessor to obtain a G coefficient of 0.80. Results of the current study suggest the possibility of getting generalizable assessments by peer reviewer with minimal information. These results are not in accordance with the concept of case specificity in which it is claimed that performance on a case is a poor predictor of performance on a different case.
Neural correlates of variations in event processing during learning in basolateral amygdala.	The discovery that dopamine neurons signal errors in reward prediction has demonstrated that concepts empirically derived from the study of animal behavior can be used to understand the neural implementation of reward learning. Yet the learning theory models linked to phasic dopamine activity treat attention to events such as cues and rewards as static quantities; other models, such as Pearce-Hall, propose that learning might be influenced by variations in processing of these events. A key feature of these accounts is that event processing is modulated by unsigned rather than signed reward prediction errors. Here we tested whether neural activity in rat basolateral amygdala conforms to this pattern by recording single units in a behavioral task in which rewards were unexpectedly delivered or omitted. We report that neural activity at the time of reward is providing an unsigned error signal with characteristics consistent with those postulated by these models. This neural signal increased immediately after a change in reward, and stronger firing was evident whether the value of the reward increased or decreased. Further, as predicted by these models, the change in firing developed over several trials as expectations for reward were repeatedly violated. This neural signal was correlated with faster orienting to predictive cues after changes in reward, and abolition of the signal by inactivation of basolateral amygdala disrupted this change in orienting and retarded learning in response to changes in reward. These results suggest that basolateral amygdala serves a critical function in attention for learning.
Does "hidden undercuffing" occur among obese patients? Effect of arm sizes and other predictors of the difference between wrist and upper arm blood pressures.	Arm size can affect the accuracy of blood pressure (BP) measurement, and "undercuffing" of large upper arms is likely to be a growing problem. Therefore, the authors investigated the relationship between upper arm and wrist readings. Upper arm and wrist circumferences and BP were measured in 261 consecutive patients. Upper arm auscultation and wrist BP was measured in triplicate, rotating measurements every 30 seconds between sites. Upper arm BP was 131.9+/-20.6/71.6+/-12.6 mm Hg in an obese population (body mass index, 30.6+/-6.6 kg/m(2)) with mean upper arm size of 30.7+/-5.1 cm. Wrist BP was higher (2.6+/-9.2 mm Hg and 4.9+/-6.6 mm Hg, respectively, P<.001); however, there was moderate concordance for the Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC 7) strata (kappa value=0.27-0.71), and the difference was >or=5 mm Hg in 72% of the patients. The authors conclude that there was poor concordance between arm and wrist BP measurement and found no evidence that "hidden undercuffing" was associated with obesity; therefore, they do not support routine use of wrist BP measurements.
Association of calcium-phosphorus product with blood pressure in dialysis.	Hypertension is very common in dialysis patients. Disorders of mineral metabolism have been linked to vascular calcification and hypertension in dialysis. Fifty-four hemodialysis patients were included in a cross-sectional study in a dialysis unit during a 6-month period. Linear regression analysis was done between averages of calcium and phosphorus (ca x ph) product and blood pressures (BPs). Ca x ph was significantly associated with systolic BP predialysis (P=.03, R=0.28), diastolic BP predialysis (P=.001, R=0.44), predialysis mean arterial pressure (MAP) (P=.002, R=0.4), and diastolic BP postdialysis (P=.03, R=0.26). No relationship was found with pulse pressures. Multilinear regression analysis was then done between ca x ph product and BPs adjusting for age, sex, hemoglobin, diabetes, albumin, parathyroid hormone, ultrafiltration volume, and average BP medications per patient. There was a strong positive association with predialysis systolic BP (P=.003, R(2)=0.49), predialysis MAP (P=.001, R(2)=0.51), and postdialysis MAP (P=.02, R(2)=0.65). No associations with pulse pressures were detected. The study findings suggest that ca x ph product is significantly associated with dialysis MAP and not pulse pressure. This is likely secondary to the stronger relationship with diastolic BP than with systolic BP. Prospective studies looking into the associated hemodynamic parameters related to arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction along with measures for calcifications would be very beneficial.
Serial changes in norepinephrine kinetics associated with feeding dogs a high-fat diet.	The role of increased sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity in the pathogenesis of obesity hypertension and insulin resistance is controversial. Eight dogs were instrumented and fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 6 weeks. Dogs were evaluated for changes in weight, blood pressure, insulin resistance, and norepinephrine (NE) kinetics using a two-compartment model. The HFD resulted in weight gain, hypertension, and insulin resistance. During the 6 weeks of the HFD, although plasma NE concentration trended toward increasing (P=.09), SNS, assessed by NE kinetic studies, significantly increased (P=.009). Within 1 week of starting the HFD, NE release into the extravascular compartment (NE(2)) increased from 3.44+/-0.59 microg/mL to 4.87+/-0.80 microg/mL (P<.01) and this increase was maintained over the next 5 weeks of the HFD (NE(2) at week 6 was 4.66+/-0.97 microg/mL). In addition to the increased NE(2) there was also a significant increase in NE clearance (P=.04). There were significant correlations between the increase in NE(2) and both the development of insulin resistance and hypertension. This study supports the hypothesis that activation of the SNS plays a pivotal role in the metabolic and hemodynamic changes that occur with weight gain induced by HFD.
Association of capillary density and function measures with blood pressure, fasting plasma glucose, and insulin sensitivity.	The pathophysiology underlying the association between hypertension and insulin resistance remains unclear. The study purpose was to determine whether reduced capillary density and/or function underlie, and may therefore explain, this association. The study was conducted on 115 black and non-black participants aged 18 to 55 years: 91 with normal blood pressure (systolic blood pressure [SBP] <130 mm Hg) and 24 with mild blood pressure elevation (SBP 130-159 mm Hg). Capillary density and function were quantified using direct capillaroscopy measures. Insulin sensitivity (IS) was estimated using the Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index (QUICKI). Endothelial function (EF) was measured using strain-gauge plethysmography. Data were analyzed by linear regression adjusted for age, sex, race, and body mass index (BMI). After adjustment for BMI, capillary density and function measures were significant predictors of SBP ( P<.01), fasting plasma glucose (P=.012, P=.03, and P=.004, respectively), and EF (P=.033, P=.001, and P=.009, respectively). However, none of the capillary measures were significant predictors of fasting insulin or IS. These capillaroscopy data demonstrated an association with SBP but not insulin resistance, suggesting that capillary measures are unlikely to explain the association between hypertension and insulin resistance, at least with modest degrees of blood pressure elevation.
High inflammatory activity related to the number of metabolic syndrome components.	It has been known that each component of the metabolic syndrome (MS) has an atherogenic potential and increases the risk of cardiovascular events. Therefore, patients who have MS are candidates for the development of atherosclerosis and accompanying complications. In this study, the authors assessed the levels of acute phase reactants as an indicator of inflammation in patients with MS. Twenty-five patients with recently diagnosed MS and not treated before who had at least 3 of 5 diagnostic criteria of MS listed in the Third Report of the Adult Treatment Panel National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP-ATP III) guidelines were included in the study. Twenty healthy patients constituted the control group. Inflammatory parameters were compared between the groups. There was no significant difference between the MS and control group with regard to age and sex. White blood cell count (/mm(3)), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), uric acid, interleukin (IL) 6, and fibrinogen levels were found to be significantly higher in the MS group. Number of MS components was strongly correlated with serum levels of hs-CRP (r=0.688, P=.0001), IL-6 (r=0.546, P=.0001), fibrinogen (r=0.551, P=.0001), uric acid (r=0.517, P=.0001), and leucocyte count (/mm(3)) (r=0.456, P=.002). Inflammation plays an important role in atherosclerotic complications, which is activated in MS. Increased number of MS components are strongly associated with elevated inflammatory and metabolic markers. Measurement of serum inflammatory parameters in patients with MS may be beneficial in detection and management of cardiovascular events and in the assessment of efficacy of treatment.
Intravenous ascorbic acid infusion improves myocardial perfusion grade during elective percutaneous coronary intervention: relationship with oxidative stress markers.	Our goal was to explore whether antioxidant vitamin C infusion is able to affect the microcirculation perfusion in patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention for stable angina.
Correlation of Device landing zone calcification and acute procedural success in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantations with the self-expanding CoreValve prosthesis.	The aim of this study was to assess the influence of amount and distribution of calcifications of the aortic valve and the left ventricular outflow tract on the acute procedural outcome of patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI).
Increasing the revenues from automatic milking by using individual variation in milking characteristics.	The objective of this study was to quantify individual variation in daily milk yield and milking duration in response to the length of the milking interval and to assess the economic potential of using this individual variation to optimize the use of an automated milking system. Random coefficient models were used to describe the individual effects of milking interval on daily milk yield and milking duration. The random coefficient models were fitted on a data set consisting of 4,915 records of normal uninterrupted milkings collected from 311 cows kept in 5 separate herds for 1 wk. The estimated random parameters showed considerable variation between individuals within herds in milk yield and milking duration in response to milking interval. In the actual situation, the herd consisted of 60 cows and the automatic milking system operated at an occupation rate (OR) of 64%. When maximizing daily milk revenues per automated milking system by optimizing individual milking intervals, the average milking interval was reduced from 0.421 d to 0.400 d, the daily milk yield at the herd level was increased from 1,883 to 1,909 kg/d, and milk revenues increased from euro498 to euro507/d. If an OR of 85% could be reached with the same herd size, the optimal milking interval would decrease to 0.238 d, milk yield would increase to 1,997 kg/d, and milk revenues would increase to euro529/d. Consequently, more labor would be required for fetching the cows, and milking duration would increase. Alternatively, an OR of 85% could be achieved by increasing the herd size from 60 to 80 cows without decreasing the milking interval. Milk yield would then increase to 2,535 kg/d and milk revenues would increase to euro673/d. For practical implementation on farms, a dynamic approach is recommended, by which the parameter estimates regarding the effect of interval length on milk yield and the effect of milk yield on milking duration are updated regularly and also the milk production response to concentrate intake is taken into account.
Association of short sleep duration with weight gain and obesity at 1-year follow-up: a large-scale prospective study.	To investigate the association between short sleep duration and elevated body mass index (BMI) and obesity in a large sample of Japanese adults over a short period.
Habitual sleep duration and insomnia and the risk of cardiovascular events and all-cause death: report from a community-based cohort.	To investigate the relationship between sleep duration and insomnia severity and the risk of all-cause death and cardiovascular disease (CVD) events.
Nocturnal cerebral hemodynamics in snorers and in patients with obstructive sleep apnea: a near-infrared spectroscopy study.	Sleep disordered breathing (SDB) of the obstructive type causes hemodynamic consequences, leading to an increased cerebrovascular risk. The severity of SDB at which detrimental circulatory consequences appear is matter of controversy. Aim of the present study is the investigation of cerebral hemodynamics in patients with SDB of variable severity using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS).
The association between body-mass index and patient outcome in septic shock: a retrospective cohort study.	It is unknown whether body-mass index (BMI) and commonly defined BMI categories are associated with mortality in patients with septic shock.
Ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and the effects of task demand context on facial affect appraisal in schizophrenia.	Schizophrenia patients display impaired performance and brain activity during facial affect recognition. These impairments may reflect stimulus-driven perceptual decrements and evaluative processing abnormalities. We differentiated these two processes by contrasting responses to identical stimuli presented under different contexts. Seventeen healthy controls and 16 schizophrenia patients performed an fMRI facial affect detection task. Subjects identified an affective target presented amongst foils of differing emotions. We hypothesized that targeting affiliative emotions (happiness, sadness) would create a task demand context distinct from that generated when targeting threat emotions (anger, fear). We compared affiliative foil stimuli within a congruent affiliative context with identical stimuli presented in an incongruent threat context. Threat foils were analysed in the same manner. Controls activated right orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)/ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) more to affiliative foils in threat contexts than to identical stimuli within affiliative contexts. Patients displayed reduced OFC/VLPFC activation to all foils, and no activation modulation by context. This lack of context modulation coincided with a 2-fold decrement in foil detection efficiency. Task demands produce contextual effects during facial affective processing in regions activated during affect evaluation. In schizophrenia, reduced modulation of OFC/VLPFC by context coupled with reduced behavioural efficiency suggests impaired ventral prefrontal control mechanisms that optimize affective appraisal.
What can spontaneous fluctuations of the blood oxygenation-level-dependent signal tell us about psychiatric disorders?	Resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) is an increasingly popular technique for studying brain dysfunction in psychiatric patients, and is widely assumed to measure intrinsic properties of functional brain organization. Here, we review rs-fMRI studies of psychiatric populations and consider how recent evidence concerning the neuronal basis, behavioural relevance, and the stability of rs-fMRI measures can inform and constrain interpretation of findings obtained using case-control designs.
The epidemiologist's responsibilities to study participants.	Epidemiologists and health survey statisticians must be aware of their many responsibilities to study participants during all phases of the investigation. Safeguards for the subject's welfare and privacy must be considered during the planning of the study, recruitment of participants, conducting the interviews or examinations, maintaining the records, and analyzing and disseminating the information. In order to achieve maximum participation and candor of study respondents, the importance and purposes of the study and the safeguards for protecting the respondents' privacy and minimizing risks must be clearly explained. All staff must be carefully trained as to their responsibilities for protecting the privacy and safety for the participants. Adherence to these principles will promote the collection and dissemination of quality data while minimizing the risks and burdens to study participants.
Morphometric study of the intrapetrous passage of the facial nerve in adult temporal bones and its application to the study of the pathogenesis of Bell facial paralysis]	After a morphometric study, done in adult temporals, of the inner diametre of the fallopian bony canal, of the thickness of both the epineural space and the nerve trunck (in petrous, tympanic and mastoid segments) and the like with the geniculate ganglion and the pyramidal bend, the AA. thrown out the conclusion that when a generalized edema of the nerve is expected the labyrinthine segment or the distal portion of the mastoidal segment are the sites to be found most precocious or heaviest compressed.
Laboratory process specifications for assuring quality in the U.S. National Cholesterol Education Program.	We have assessed the laboratory specifications necessary for ensuring that cholesterol testing processes satisfy the quality required by the U.S. National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP). A model for setting process specifications has been developed to relate the NCEP guidelines for medical interpretation of a cholesterol test to the pre-analytical and analytical variables that can affect a test result. Using this model, we derived specifications for the imprecision (coefficient of variation, CV, or standard deviation, s) and inaccuracy (bias) that are allowable under stable operation, as well as the quality-control procedures (control rules and number of control measurements) that are necessary to detect unstable operation. The NCEP goals of an allowable CV less than or equal to 3% and an allowable bias no greater than +/- 3% are inadequate for assuring the quality of an individual or single cholesterol test when monitoring performance with many of the statistical quality-control procedures currently used in the U.S. With quality-control procedures having two control measurements per run, a CV of 3% is allowable only when bias is zero; a CV less than or equal to 2% is necessary if bias is +/- 3%. With quality-control procedures having four control measurements per run, a CV of 3% is allowable when bias is +/- 1.5%; a CV less than or equal to 2.5% is required if bias is as large as +/- 3%. For two serial tests, the NCEP 3% goals are adequate for current quality-control procedures having four control measurements per run.
A comparison between estimated and registered natural head posture.	Using tracings of facial profiles, four observers made two independent, subjective estimations of natural head posture (NHP) in 28 adults. The results of these estimations were compared with recordings of NHP obtained through photographic registration of the same subjects. Only minor average differences (between 0 and 1.4 degrees) were found between the two methods. The differences between estimated and registered head posture found at the first and second observation, were positively correlated for both intra- and inter-observer registrations (r = 0.59-0.80 and r = 0.50-0.71, respectively). The inclination of the basion-nasion line was measured; first, in relation to the photographically registered horizontal line and, secondly, in relation to the horizontal line derived from the estimation of NHP. Both methods of measurement gave similar mean values and standard deviations. A panel comprising 18 persons was asked to compare the head orientations of two subjects in whom a marked difference between estimated and registered NHP had been recorded. In the majority of these comparisons, the profiles orientated according to the subjective estimation were judged to have a more 'natural posture' than those orientated by the photographic method. This unexpected finding is discussed.
Biological assays for irritant, tumor-initiating and -promoting activities. III. Computer-assisted management and validation of biodata generated by standardized initiation/promotion protocols in skin of mice.	The initiation/promotion standard protocol 28 (protocol 28), developed and used previously as an experimental model to verify the cancerogenic process of initiation/promotion in mouse skin, was revised in three aspects: (a) statistically it was shown sufficient to use, per promoter dose group, 16 colony-outbred female NMRI mice: (b) by weekly individual records of tumor response (and health status) of each mouse in a dose group, cumulative tumor incidences (and mean and extreme body weights) are determined; from these data the collective records (tumor response, health status), the only data accessible from protocol 28, may be generated in addition; (c) the details of dose groups and all data on tumor response and health status are processed by computer using the program package PAPILLOM. The latter was developed specifically for this purpose, is written in the programming language APL and designed for easy handling by staff of animal laboratories. The program package calculates, from the individual records per promoter dose group, cumulative tumor incidences (and survival data) with confidence limits for any one exposure time, and the package may be linked to programs for statistical validations. In addition, from the collective records it calculates the tumor rates, tumor yields and survival rates for any one exposure time. These data, obtained by either of the standard protocols (16 or 28), are fully comparable. For pure compounds they may be used to calculate semiquantitative tumor-promoting potencies. These values for more than 80 polyfunctional diterpenes of the tigliane, ingenane and daphnane type, scattered in or calculated from previous papers, together with their irritancies, were compiled. Within recent years, computer-assisted standard protocol 16 has been used to handle and evaluate about 1000 promoter dose groups. Protocol 16 allows one to extract and utilize more and better toxicological information on tumor response and health status from any one dose group, utilizing significantly fewer experimental animals than required by protocol 28. Thus, the computer-assisted standard protocol 16 optimizes the utility of the experimental model of mouse skin for the amount, quality and management of experimental data as well as for the requirements of animal protection.
A comparison of the natural survival of beagle dogs injected intravenously with low levels of 239Pu, 226Ra, 228Ra, 228Th, or 90Sr.	The natural survival, relative to properly chosen controls, of 26 beagle dogs injected once intravenously with an average of 0.58 +/- 0.04 kBq 239Pu/kg, 23 dogs injected with 2.31 +/- 0.43 kBq 226Ra/kg, 13 dogs injected with 1.84 +/- 0.26 kBq 228Ra/kg, 12 dogs injected with 0.56 +/- 0.030 kBq 228Th/kg, and 12 dogs injected with 21.13 +/- 1.74 kBq 90Sr/kg was evaluated statistically. The amounts of these radionuclides are related directly to the estimated maximum permissible body burdens for humans suggested in ICRP II (1959). They constitute a level of exposure that initially was assumed to cause no deleterious effects in dogs. This study had two objectives: (1) identification of homogeneous control groups against which to evaluate the survival of the irradiated groups and (2) comparison of the survival characteristics and estimation of mortality or hazard rate ratios for control dogs vs dogs injected with the baseline dosages given above. It was shown, by goodness-of-fit plots, that the Cox proportional hazards model was an appropriate method of analysis. Therefore, covariates that possibly could influence survival were tested for significance. Only the effects of grand mal seizure, which is caused in epileptic dogs by an external stimulus and can be fatal if untreated, were significant (P less than 0.0001). Consequently, in the final model, death from grand mal seizure was considered as accidental. After censoring the dogs dying from grand mal seizure, it was established that the data for the control groups from previous and contemporary experiments could be pooled. The change in hazard rates relative to controls resulting from exposure to the baseline radionuclide level was modest, 1.6 times for 239Pu (P = 0.033), 1.0(4) for 226Ra (P = 0.86), 1.9 for 228Ra (P = 0.035), 2.5 for 228Th (P less than 0.001), and 0.52 for 90Sr (P = 0.041). Bone tumor induction was clearly elevated in dogs injected with 239Pu and 228Th. When the effect of these bone tumors on survival was removed by censoring, the dogs injected with 239Pu were indistinguishable from the controls. In contrast, the effects of bone tumor on group survival of the 228Ra and 228Th dogs were not significant. Thus, no additional life-shortening effects beyond those attributable to bone tumor were suggested by these data for 239Pu, but other, as yet unspecified, confounders are suggested for 228Ra and 228Th.
The MOS social support survey.	This paper describes the development and evaluation of a brief, multidimensional, self-administered, social support survey that was developed for patients in the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS), a two-year study of patients with chronic conditions. This survey was designed to be comprehensive in terms of recent thinking about the various dimensions of social support. In addition, it was designed to be distinct from other related measures. We present a summary of the major conceptual issues considered when choosing items for the social support battery, describe the items, and present findings based on data from 2987 patients (ages 18 and older). Multitrait scaling analyses supported the dimensionality of four functional support scales (emotional/informational, tangible, affectionate, and positive social interaction) and the construction of an overall functional social support index. These support measures are distinct from structural measures of social support and from related health measures. They are reliable (all Alphas greater than 0.91), and are fairly stable over time. Selected construct validity hypotheses were supported.
Assessment of long-term exposures to toxic substances in air.	Because airborne exposure varies greatly over time and between individual workers, occupational hygienists should adopt sampling strategies which recognize the inherent statistical nature of assessing exposure. This analysis indicates that the traditional practice of testing 'compliance' with occupational exposure limits (OELs) should be discarded. Rather, it is argued that acceptable exposure should be defined with reference to the exposure distribution. Regarding the many statistical issues which come into play, it is concluded that hygienists should continue to apply the log-normal model for summarizing and testing data. However, sampling designs should move away from methods which are biased (e.g. sampling only the worst case) and which rely upon job title and observation as the primary means of assigning workers into groups. Since exposure data often lack independence (e.g. owing to the autocorrelation of serial measurements) and there exist large differences in exposure between workers in the same job group, random sampling designs should be adopted. It is also shown that the relationship between the mean of a log-normal distribution and exposures in the right tail allows one to evaluate simultaneously the mean exposure and the maximum frequency with which exposures exceed the OEL. Investigation of the biological concepts relies heavily upon a conceptual model which depicts the exposure-response continuum as a sequence of time series related to exposure, burden, damage and risk. Analysis of the linkages between these processes identifies two kinetic conditions which are necessary if variability of exposure is to affect appreciably the individual's risk of chronic disease. First, the variation of exposure from interval to interval must be efficiently translated into burden and damage (no damping), and second, during periods of intense exposure the relationship between burden and damage must be non-linear (curving upwards). On the basis of current knowledge it appears that relatively few chronic toxicants satisfy both these conditions. Even for those substances which cause damage only when a threshold is exceeded, a statistical argument suggests that the maximum risk can still be related to the mean exposure received over time. It is concluded that the risk of chronic disease generally depends upon the mean exposure received by the individual worker over time. Thus, the sampling strategy must allow the distribution of individual mean exposures to be characterized across the population at risk. It follows from this paradigm for assessing exposures that relatively little effort should be devoted to the evaluation of short-term 'peak' exposures since such transients are unlikely to exert undue influence on long-term effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Headache and family history.	In two headache questionnaire surveys we inquired about the occurrence of headache in the mothers, fathers, siblings and children of the respondents. In total, 633 people completed valid questionnaires, 260 in the first survey and 373 in the second. The hypothesis was that familial headache occurrence would be positively associated with headache frequency. In each survey, the regression of headache frequency on the number of parents having headache was highly significant. Neither sex nor the sibling and children variables were significant predictors. In the cross-tabulations of the parental occurrence of headache with headache frequency we saw a clear "break-point" between the "no headache" and the headache frequency categories studied. For the final analyses the dichotomy "headache/no headache" was related in fourfold tables to headache occurrence in the father and the mother separately, and to the number of headache parents. The positive associations were not simply due to the large number of migraine cases since they remained after removing the migraineurs.
Responders and non-responders to metoprolol, propranolol and nifedipine treatment in migraine prophylaxis: a dose-range study based on time-series analysis.	The aim of the present study was to ascertain, on the basis of single case statistics and time-series analysis, responder and non-responder rates for metoprolol, propranolol and nifedipine in migraine prophylaxis. In addition, an attempt was made to identify the dose relationship for the various drugs on headache parameters. In a double-blind dose-finding study, 58 patients were treated in five consecutive dosage steps each lasting 1-3 months. All patients kept a headache diary before, during and after treatment. Serum drug levels were also determined. The data were assessed by time-series analysis, as well as by multiple regression and analysis of variance. A significant improvement was noted in 54.4% of patients with migraine during treatment with metoprolol. The study did not confirm the high success rates in migraine prophylaxis of nifedipine and propranolol quoted in the literature. Administration of nifedipine led to an increase in migraine attacks in 71% of the patients. Nifedipine was of no value in the prophylaxis of migraine. Only 32% of patients showed a reduction in frequency of migraine attacks during administration of propranolol. The analysis of variance failed to show any significant difference between the responder rates for metoprolol and propranolol. Higher doses of propranolol and metoprolol were more effective. Multiple regression analysis explained a considerable part of variance for propranolol (but not for metoprolol) as a result of reduced intake of ergotamine preparations and analgesics. It can therefore be concluded that part of the prophylactic effect of propranolol is attributable to a reduction in the use of migraine medication.
Estimation of the magnitude of the error in bone mineral measurement due to fat: the effect of machine calibration.	An inhomogeneous fat distribution across the spine introduces an error into the measurement of bone mineral density by dual photon absorptiometry. Various published estimates of the mean error lie between 3 and 10%. This paper shows that while an estimate of the absolute error is sensitive to the attenuation coefficients entered for bone the relative or percentage error is independent of the bone calibration. This suggests that a re-evaluation is necessary of some of the published conclusions.
A multilocus linkage map of mouse chromosome 8.	We present a genetic linkage map of mouse chromosome 8 that spans 53 cM and includes eight cloned loci. This map was derived from analysis of 100 progeny of an interspecific backcross between Mus spretus and Mus musculus domesticus. Genes that were mapped in this analysis include L7, Plat, Lpl, Ucp, Es, Mt-1, Um, and Tat. This analysis positions a new extremely proximal marker on chromosome 8, which is discussed as a potential candidate gene for the nervous locus. These linkage data will be useful for the mapping of additional loci on chromosome 8.
Computerized analysis of concomitant contact allergens.	A statistical study was conducted on 3697 patch-tested patients in order to find any cross-reacting or concomitant allergens. 44 correlations were found. 3 were well-known cross-reacting substances (e.g., benzocaine and p-phenylenediamine). 7 were unlikely, probably random, findings and the remaining 27 were considered to be either new cross-reacting allergens (e.g., promethazine and azo dyes) or concomitant allergens found in the same kind of products (e.g., nickel and cobalt in alloys, ethylenediamine and neomycin in Kenacombin cream, colophony and carba-mix in adhesive bandage).
Are our babies becoming bigger?	I have tried to show, using a contemporary international data set, the overall consistency in shape of curves of national birthweight distributions which reflect the biological and social characteristics of the population from which they are derived, and the effects of changes in these characteristics. For several countries, including the United States and England and Wales, the trends in recent years have been such as to shift the main distribution upwards, so that the median weight has increased. Also shown has been the close and specific relationship within each population group between infant mortality and birthweight, with sharp falls of mortality with increasing birthweight. It has been shown elsewhere that similar patterns are seen with short- and long-term morbidity, thus underlining the importance to be attached to increasing birthweight particularly in underprivileged groups. In the short term this can be done by reducing the frequency of parental smoking, where this is a problem, and in the longer term by improving maternal health and nutrition. The shift towards higher birthweights if it persists, should make an important contribution towards the improvement of the public health of the next generation.
Preclinical detection in studies of the etiology, natural history, and treatment of Parkinson's disease.	The development of reliable preclinical detection procedures for idiopathic Parkinson's disease may be the fundamental advance required for the establishment of the cause, the natural history, and ultimately, the prevention of this neurodegenerative disorder. The usefulness of these preclinical markers in efforts to better understand the etiology and development of this disorder will relate to whether they are direct measures of dopamine production or indirect measures such as metabolic changes or comorbidity, whether they can be used in the first or later decades of life, whether they are invasive, and whether they are expensive and sophisticated or simple and cheap. An overview of the criteria for evaluation of the utility of specific markers, as well as an assessment of the importance of early markers in future research, is presented.
Resistance of 700 gram-negative bacterial strains to antiseptics and antibiotics]	The sensitivity of 701 Gram negative strains, representing 16 species or bacterial genera, towards 4 antiseptics (cetrimide, chlorhexidine, hexachlorophene, mercuric chloride) and 6 antibiotics (ampicillin, streptomycin, erythromycin, chloramphenicol, kanamycin, tetracycline) was analysed. For 3 antiseptics (cetrimide, chlorhexidine, mercuric chloride) minimal inhibitory concentration distribution showed strains to be heterogeneous, particularly in the group Pseudomonas. Most strains were resistant to antibiotics. The statistical analysis of correlation showed positive resistance links between antiseptics (cetrimide, chlorhexidine, hexachlorophene) or between these antiseptics and antibiotics for S marcescens and Alcaligenes. Many strains proved resistant, at the same time, to mercuric chloride and to several antibiotics. These associations of resistance suggest either a common mechanism of action or a crossed resistance.
Measuring the impact of nurse cue-response behaviour on cancer patients' emotional cues.	This study aimed to explore the impact of nurse responses to patients' and family members' emotional cues and concerns during the chemotherapy education consultation.
Effect of extraocular muscle surgery on corneal topography.	A computerized videokeratoscopy system was used to evaluate changes in corneal topography after muscle surgery in 36 eyes of 18 rabbits. Topographic analysis revealed a significant flattening of the cornea in the superior and superotemporal octants after superior rectus recession (mean +/- SE, -1.78 +/- 0.16 diopters) compared with control eyes undergoing a sham procedure (-0.17 +/- 0.18 D; P less than .05). Excision of all rectus muscles caused a generalized corneal flattening (-1.42 +/- 0.13 D; P less than .001). A computerized, finite element model of the globe, including the rectus muscles, demonstrated corneal deformation as a result of extraocular muscle tension; recession of an extraocular muscle in this model caused corneal flattening in the quadrant of the recessed muscle. These data suggest that corneal topography is affected by extraocular muscle tension, corroborating clinical reports of refractive change after strabismus surgery.
Aspects of mental health communication skills training that predict parent and child outcomes in pediatric primary care.	Training in communication can change clinician behaviors, but brief training may function by altering attitudes rather than teaching new skills. We used data from a trial of mental health training for office-based primary care to determine indicators of uptake that predicted parent and child outcomes.
Disturbed cholecystokinin secretion in patients with eating disorders.	It has been shown that the gastrointestinal hormone cholecystokinin (CCK) induces satiety and reduces food intake in laboratory animals and humans. In the light of this evidence we studied CCK release in patients suffering from eating disorders. The secretion of CCK into the general circulation was measured in 10 anorectic, in 7 bulimic patients, and in 8 healthy controls before and after a high-caloric liquid testmeal. Baseline CCK values were similar in controls (0.6 +/- 0.2 pmol/l) and bulimics (0.6 +/- 0.1 pmol/l) and were significantly increased in the anorectic group (1.8 +/- 0.4 pmol/l) (p less than or equal to 0.005). After eating peak plasma levels increased to 6.1 +/- 0.9 pmol/l in the anorectic, to 3.8 +/- 0.5 pmol/l in the bulimic and to 2.7 +/- 0.6 pmol/l in the control group. All postprandial CCK values were significantly higher in the anorectic group. The secretion of CCK-8-S, an important peptide in the CCK family, was significantly elevated, too. This disturbed CCK secretion in patients suffering from anorexia nervosa, even if it is a secondary, diet-induced defect, may perpetuate this disorder.
Significance of levels of circulating IgA-class immune complex in discriminant analysis of patients with IgA nephropathy before renal biopsy.	Discriminant analysis of clinical markers including circulating IgA-class immune complex (IgA-CIC) before renal biopsy in patients with IgA nephropathy is described. Fifty-six patients with IgA nephropathy (IgA nephropathy group) and 54 patients with other primary chronic glomerulonephritis (non-IgA nephropathy group) were examined. Discriminant analysis was applied to separate these two groups by using 21 clinical markers including levels of IgA-CIC. The levels of IgA-CIC in sera were measured by a solid-phase anti-C3 Facb enzyme immunoassay (EIA). Among these clinical markers, the levels of serum IgA, IgA-CIC and creatinine, and the degree of microhematuria in the IgA nephropathy group were significantly higher than those in the non-IgA nephropathy group. Contributions of IgA and IgA-CIC to the classification were very high and both had almost the same effect. The correct classification rate was 80.00% using five clinical markers: serum IgA, microhematuria, IgA-CIC, serum creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen. It was shown that the levels of serum IgA and IgA-CIC were major markers for the clinical diagnosis of patients with IgA nephropathy. It was concluded that discriminant analysis before renal biopsy was useful for the diagnosis of IgA nephropathy.
Effect of long-term triphasic oral contraceptive use on glucose tolerance and insulin secretion.	This study was designed to compare the effects of two low-dose triphasic oral contraceptives (OCs) on glucose tolerance and insulin secretion. Fifty-seven women were randomized to receive OCs containing ethinyl estradiol and either levonorgestrel or norethindrone. Ten subjects using nonhormonal contraception served as controls. Glucose tolerance and insulin secretion were measured at baseline and at 6 and 12 months after an oral glucose stimulus. Both preparations produced a relative hyperglycemia at 6 and 12 months compared with baseline, but within the norms for glucose tolerance. The insulin response, measured in 48 treated and eight control subjects, also increased over 12 months in both treated groups, but the total insulin area was within the range of the reference laboratory. Such minor changes have not been associated with cardiovascular diseases and support the safety of low-dose triphasic preparations.
Rigid contact lens design: effects of overall diameter changes on tear pump efficiency.	The effects of rigid contact lens overall diameter changes on tear pump efficiency were studied for lenses of 7 overall diameters (8.2 to 10.0 mm in 0.3-mm steps) while maintaining all other parameters (including a 7.4-mm optic zone diameter) constant. Oxygen uptake rates were measured in the normal, open eye and after static (without blinking) and dynamic (with blinking once every 5 s) wear of oxygen-impermeable (polymethyl methacrylate) contact lenses. Differences between uptake rates obtained under static vs. dynamic conditions served as an index of tear pump efficiency for each lens. Tear pump efficiency increased with the use of progressively smaller lens diameters and subjects with large palpebral aperture sizes were also found to have better tear exchange (r = 0.934, p = 0.006 for the 9.1-mm overall diameter reference lens).
Population study of ambulatory blood pressure in a rural community in northern Japan.	A cross sectional survey was performed on ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) in a rural community in northern Japan. ABP was measured in 468 participants (148 men and 320 women, or 27.3% of the less than or equal to 20 year-old population in the study region) with a Colin ABPM 630, an ABP monitoring system. ABP was determined every 30 min for 24 hr. All-day average of 24 hr ambulatory systolic, (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) in these subjects were 121.5 +/- 11.8 and 71.7 +/- 8.0 mmHg (mean +/- S.D.), respectively. Ambulatory SBP and DBP levels increased gradually with an increase in age in both sexes. The age dependent increase in SBP was, however, extremely small in men compared with that in the casual SBP of the ordinary Japanese reported. The minimal age-dependent increase in ambulatory SBP in men reflects a high ambulatory SBP in those below 50 years-old as well as a minimal increase in ambulatory SBP in those over 50. Ambulatory SBPs in women were lower than those in men until they reach the age of 50 years. Ambulatory SBP levels in men and women were similar after their 60's. Ambulatory DBP tended to fall or remain at the same level after 60 years-old. Thus, a greater pulse pressure was observed in elderly subjects. Casual SBP and DBP in the ordinary Japanese were significantly higher than the daytime average ambulatory SBP and DBP in all age groups of both sexes in the population except those in their 20's. The results suggests that ABP has different clinical characteristics and may have a different clinical significance from casual BP.
Establishing the validity of the personality assessment inventory drug and alcohol scales in a corrections sample.	Although not originally designed for implementation in correctional settings, researchers and clinicians have begun to use the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) to assess offenders. A relatively small number of studies have made attempts to validate the alcohol and drug abuse scales of the PAI, and only a very few studies have validated those scales in nonclinical correctional samples. The current study examined evidence of convergent and discriminant validity for the substance abuse scales on the PAI in a large, nonclinical sample of offenders. The net sample for the current study consisted of 1,120 federal inmates. Both the drug abuse and alcohol scales showed good convergent validity through high correlations with relevant proximal and distal indicators of substance use across multiple measures from several data sources. Discriminant validity was established as neither scale showed any "erroneous" correlations after controlling for the other scale. Implications for future research and practice are discussed.
The natural history of HELLP syndrome: patterns of disease progression and regression.	Despite much recent interest in HELLP syndrome (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count), there is little published information about the natural history of this unique form of severe preeclampsia-eclampsia. The time course and pattern of laboratory abnormalities for 158 patients with HELLP syndrome managed in a single tertiary referral center between 1980 and 1989 were studied retrospectively. Despite considerable patient variation, most gravid women with HELLP syndrome had decreasing platelet counts until 24 to 48 hours after delivery. Conversely, lactate dehydrogenase concentrations usually peaked 24 to 48 hours post partum. In all patients who recovered, a platelet count greater than 1,000,000/mm3 was spontaneously achieved by the sixth postpartum day or within 72 hours of platelet nadir. An upward trend in platelet count and a downward trend in lactate dehydrogenase concentrations should be apparent in patients without complications by the fourth postpartum day. These data provide baseline information against which the course of individual patients can be compared and the infrequent, atypical case identified for interventive therapy.
Outcome of very-low-birth-weight infants exposed to beta-sympathomimetics in utero.	In this study we examined neonatal and early childhood outcomes after intrauterine exposure to beta-sympathomimetic agents on infants with birth weights less than or equal to 1500 gm. The hospital courses and anthropomorphic, developmental, and neurologic development of 201 infants exposed to one or more beta-sympathomimetic agents (isoxsuprine, 33; ritodrine, 70; terbutaline, 43; combination, 55) were analyzed and compared with those of 130 control infants of similar birth weight. One hundred and seventy-seven infants had follow-up to 1 year of age, 101 to age 3, and 58 to age 4. When treatments consisting of a single beta-sympathomimetic or no treatment were compared, there were no statistically significant overall differences found in growth and development or in most of the short-term measures of infant well-being. However, significant overall differences with no evidence of confounding by time-related effects were found for the following; mortality, none greater than terbutaline; maximum positive inspiratory pressure when respiratory distress syndrome was present, none greater than terbutaline; neonatal trauma, terbutaline greater than ritodrine. Other differences were found in conjunction with evidence of time-related confounding, or within specific time intervals. It should be noted that these differences are not necessarily due to effects of the different treatments, as the data are observational.
Studies of delayed hypersensitivity responses in children in an industrialized region of Italy.	The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effects of chronic exposure to chemical pollutants on cell mediated immune responses in a pediatric population living in Priolo, an industrialized area of Italy, by means of skin test (Multitest CMI). The results suggest that children living in Priolo display significantly lower delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) response than those seen in an age-matched and socioeconomically similar group of children living in Taormina, a nonindustrialized area. The lowered incidence of DTH scores in Priolo is not due to the number of positive skin test responses to individual antigens, but rather to the size of individual reactions.
Diuretic drug use and the risk for hip fracture.	To test the hypothesis that use of thiazide diuretics prevents hip fracture and to study the risk for hip fracture associated with furosemide use.
Chemotherapy compared with bone marrow transplantation for adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first remission.	To compare efficacy of intensive postremission chemotherapy with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first remission.
Seasons of birth and psychiatry. A retrospective inpatients study]	Births of schizophrenics tend to occur more often than expected during the first months of the year. This phenomenon has been repeatedly demonstrated in large samples of patients, but data from France are not yet available. METHOD. Medical records of 2,215 inpatients born in France, have been studied with DSM III-R. Admissions were unduplicated. Inpatient population is described table I. The 230 schizophrenic patients were also classified into three groups according with family history for psychotic diseases (Positive, Negative and Unknown). The year was divided in quarters, but also in two climatic half-years (Cold and Warm). Two different populations were used as controls: first, the live births data in France collected by the INSEE; and second, the 1726 non psychotic inpatients hospitalised in the same unit as the psychotics, during the same period. RESULTS. The season of birth effect can be demonstrated from our sample. When the whole schizophrenic group is compared to the INSEE data, a significant excess of births is found for the winter quarter (p less than .04) and for the cold half-year (p less than .01). In the DSM III-R disorganized patients the seasonal variation becomes significant at a level of p less than .001. The other subtypes of schizophrenia do not show significant seasonal variations (table II). The pattern of birth of the other DSM III-R diagnoses, does not significantly differ from INSEE control data (table III). Schizophrenic patients without psychiatrically ill relatives show a slight, non significant excess of births in winter which become significant for the cold half-year (p less than .03). Subjects with possible family history do not show any trend suggesting a seasonal effect (table IV). DISCUSSION. Few reports include an entire inpatient population as we have done. Such data in our study offers an element of useful comparison with the schizophrenics. Clinic data: Most of seasonal studies have used ICD-8, ICD-9 or Tsuang and Winokur criteria, to compare only paranoid and non paranoid subjects, and some of them found a very small excess of paranoid births in winter. The discrepancies between these studies and ours, can reflect both variability among environmental factors and variability in the diagnostic criteria.
A computerized test battery for the assessment of cardiovascular reactivity.	Recent evidence has suggested a possible relationship between the tendency to exhibit excessive cardiovascular reactions during psychological challenge and the risk of cardiovascular disease. Valid techniques for reliably assessing such reactions are, however, minimally available. A test battery for the assessment of cardiovascular reactivity to experimental challenge is currently being developed at the University of Pittsburgh in conjunction with the University of Miami and Duke University. An IBM-AT compatible microcomputer is being used for the concurrent collection of physiological data and presentation of the laboratory stressors. Digitized cardiovascular data being collected include EKG, Impedance Cardiogram (ICG), phonocardiogram, and a peripheral pulse wave measure. Blood pressure readings are also being collected and stored on disk. The computer presents three challenging video games, each designed to elicit cardiovascular reactions. Processing programs are being used and developed for the standardized scoring of the digitized signals. To assist in epidemiological research a mobile testing unit has been assembled for the easy administration of the test battery in varying geographical locations. The test battery being developed will increase the feasibility of epidemiological and clinical assessment of stress-induced cardiovascular responses which may substantiate a link between reactivity and cardiovascular disease.
Sjögren syndrome: comparative studies in local ocular and serum immunoglobulin concentrations with special reference to secretory IgA.	The objective of the present study was to examine Secretory IgA in tears and serum of Sjögren patients (34 patients and 23 controls). The test was performed in a parallel study using a polyclonal and a monoclonal method (Inter-Assay variation 9.1/Intra-Assay variation 5.5). No differences in the levels of tear secretory IgA were found between patients and controls. In serum however, secretory IgA, total IgA, IgM and IgG showed a significant increase in the Sjögren patients. The fact that secretory IgA levels remain normal in the ocular mucosa of these patients may explain that, despite the autoimmune destruction of the lacrimal gland, humoral defense factors are normally present on the surface of the eye to combat infections.
Comparing functional (PET) images: the assessment of significant change.	Statistical parametric maps (SPMs) are potentially powerful ways of localizing differences in regional cerebral activity. This potential is limited by uncertainties in assessing the significance of these maps. In this report, we describe an approach that may partially resolve this issue. A distinction is made between using SPMs as images of change significance and using them to identify foci of significant change. In the first case, the SPM can be reported nonselectively as a single mathematical object with its omnibus significance. Alternatively, the SPM constitutes a large number of repeated measures over the brain. To reject the null hypothesis, that no change has occurred at a specific location, a threshold adjustment must be made that accounts for the large number of comparisons made. This adjustment is shown to depend on the SPM's smoothness. Smoothness can be determined empirically and be used to calculate a threshold required to identify significant foci. The approach models the SPM as a stationary stochastic process. The theory and applications are illustrated using uniform phantom images and data from a verbal fluency activation study of four normal subjects.
The importance of motor functional levels from the activity limitation perspective of ICF in children with cerebral palsy.	Our purpose in this study was to evaluate performance and capacity as defined by Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) and Manual Ability Classification System (MACS) from the 'activity limitation' perspective of International Classification of Functioning,Disability, and Health (ICF) and to investigate the relationship between the two classification systems in different subtypes of cerebral palsy (CP). This prospective cross-sectional study was performed on 448 children with CP ranging from 4 to 15 years of age. Activity limitations were studied with the GMFCS for gross motor function and MACS for manual ability. The Spearman's correlation coefficient, contingency coefficient, and Cramer's V coefficient were used to assess the strength and significance of the association betweenGMFCS and MACS. The overall agreement between GMFCS and MACS was found to be 41%. The agreement was 42% in spastic children, 40% in dyskinetic children, 50% in ataxic children, and 28% in mixed type children. The overall j value was j=0.235 (P<0.001). The κ coefficient was 0.252 in spastic children, 0.245 in dyskinetic children, 0.318 in ataxic children, and 0.023 in mixed type children. All the κ coefficients except the value for the mixed type were found to be significant. The usage of two different classification systems, GMFCS and MACS, to describe the capacity and performance in children with CP as defined by the ICF provides an easy and quick classification tool for indicating 'activity limitations' of ICF in children with CP. The next step in research should be to highlight the other domains such as participation restrictions in these children.
Wilms' tumor: prognostic factors for patients without metastases at diagnosis: results of the National Wilms' Tumor Study.	Multivariate statistical analyses are used to evaluate a wide range of factors in predicting relapse and survival for 429 children enrolled in the National Wilms' Tumor Study. Anaplastic or sarcomatous histology, specimen weight over 250 grams, positive regional lymph nodes, treatment with only a single drug and age over two years are the most important predictors of relapse. The first three factors also predict mortality. Laterality, capsular penetration, intrarenal vascular invasion, direct regional extension and operative spillage have lesser effects which do not contribute significantly to the multivariate prediction equations, while sex, race and the presence of a tumor thrombus in the renal vein have essentially no effect. Treatment with combination chemotherapy is confirmed to be efficacious regardless of what prognostic factors are operating. A statistical model allows prediction of relapse and death for each of 24 patient subgroups, with the estimates of percentage relapsed ranging from 3% to 100%.
Ultrasound findings in injuries of dorsal extensor hood: correlation with MR and follow-up findings.	The aim of this study was to use ultrasound to examine the dorsal hood in nine patients with a clinical suspicion of dorsal hood injuries.
Coding problems in German mortality statistics as illustrated by ischaemic heart disease]	The German mortality statistics are an important data source in terms of research and health policy but might be influenced by different sources of error such as ICD-10 coding by regional authorities. The aim of this study was to identify state-specific coding problems using the example of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and myocardial infarction (MI).
Experiences of hospital care reported by bereaved relatives of patients after a stroke: a retrospective survey using the VOICES questionnaire.	This paper is a report of a study conducted to explore the determinants of satisfaction with health and social care services in the last 3 months and 3 days of life as reported by bereaved relatives of those who died from a stroke in an institutional setting.
You get what you measure: Assessing and reporting student satisfaction with their health and social care educational experience.	Higher education institutions (HEIs) and national bodies are increasingly monitoring the satisfaction of their students with their educational experiences. Quantitative satisfaction surveys are often used, where HEI students rate the questionnaire items using Likert scale formats to express their perceived satisfaction. However, the literature shows considerable variations in how satisfaction has been gauged based on students' responses to such questionnaires. It is important to ascertain that methods used to gauge student satisfaction are appropriate. We explored the associations between the method employed in calculating the levels of student satisfaction with their educational experience and the emergent level of satisfaction. We employed data comprising 2650 module satisfaction questionnaires (18 items) from a University in the UK. Five common choices of satisfaction summary measures were tested: three different count summary measures; a sum summary measure; and a ratio summary measure. The 5 measures were correlated, but levels of student satisfaction varied widely according to the summary measure that was used. The behaviour of some satisfaction summary measures suggested that they might lack the ability to discriminate effectively between different levels of student satisfaction. We recommend the use of two summary measures and discuss the implications for research and practice.
MR imaging of normal extrinsic wrist ligaments using thin slices with clinical and surgical correlation.	Eighty-nine MR examinations of the wrist were retrospectively analyzed. MRI results were compared with clinical findings and/or arthroscopy. Thin proton density and T2 weighted sequences and 3D DESS weighted sequences were applied on a 1.5T scanner. On the palmar side three radiocarpal ligaments are recognized including the radioscaphocapitate, radiolunotriquetral, radioscapholunate, and midcarpal triquetroscaphoidal ligaments. Ulnocarpal ligaments include the ulnolunate ligament and the ulnotriquetral ligament. On the dorsal side three ligaments are recognized: the dorsal radiolunotriquetral, and the midcarpal triquetroscaphoidal and triquetro-trapezoido-trapezial. The collateral ligaments include the radial and ulnar collateral ligament. MR is a valuable technique in the assessment of the extrinsic and midcarpal ligaments. Depiction of the extrinsic ligaments can best be accomplished with coronal 3D DESS sequences and sagittal and transverse proton density and T2 weighted sequences with thin slices.
Shading by napier grass reduces malaria vector larvae in natural habitats in Western Kenya highlands.	Increased human population in the Western Kenya highlands has led to reclamation of natural swamps resulting in the creation of habitats suitable for the breeding of Anopheles gambiae, the major malaria vector in the region. Here we report on a study to restore the reclaimed swamp and reverse its suitability as a habitat for malaria vectors. Napier grass-shaded and non-shaded water channels in reclaimed sites in Western Kenya highlands were studied for the presence and density of mosquito larvae, mosquito species composition, and daily variation in water temperature. Shading was associated with 75.5% and 88.4% (P < 0.0001) reduction in anopheline larvae densities and 78.1% and 88% (P < 0.0001) reduction in Anopheles gambiae sensu lato (s.l.) densities in two sites, respectively. Shading was associated with a 5.7°C, 5.0°C, and 4.7°C, and 1.6°C, 3.9°C, and 2.8°C (for maximum, minimum, and average temperatures, respectively) reduction (P < 0.0001) in water temperatures in the two locations, respectively. An. gambiae s.l. was the dominant species, constituting 83.2% and 73.1%, and 44.5% and 42.3%, of anophelines in non-shaded and shaded channels, respectively, in the two sites, respectively. An. gambiae sensu stricto (s.s.) constituted the majority (97.4%) of An. gambiae s.l., while the rest (2.6%) comprised of Anopheles arabiensis. Minimum water temperature decreased with increasing grass height (P = 0.0039 and P = 0.0415 for Lunyerere and Emutete sites, respectively). The results demonstrate how simple environmental strategies can have a strong impact on vector densities.
Genomic similarity and kernel methods I: advancements by building on mathematical and statistical foundations.	Measures of genomic similarity are the basis of many statistical analytic methods. We review the mathematical and statistical basis of similarity methods, particularly based on kernel methods. A kernel function converts information for a pair of subjects to a quantitative value representing either similarity (larger values meaning more similar) or distance (smaller values meaning more similar), with the requirement that it must create a positive semidefinite matrix when applied to all pairs of subjects. This review emphasizes the wide range of statistical methods and software that can be used when similarity is based on kernel methods, such as nonparametric regression, linear mixed models and generalized linear mixed models, hierarchical models, score statistics, and support vector machines. The mathematical rigor for these methods is summarized, as is the mathematical framework for making kernels. This review provides a framework to move from intuitive and heuristic approaches to define genomic similarities to more rigorous methods that can take advantage of powerful statistical modeling and existing software. A companion paper reviews novel approaches to creating kernels that might be useful for genomic analyses, providing insights with examples [1]. 
Subjective awareness of everyday dysexecutive behavior precedes 'objective' executive problems in schizotypy: a replication and extension study.	This study aimed to examine the subjective awareness of everyday dysexecutive function and the 'objective' executive function in individuals with schizotypal personality features. Forty-nine individuals with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) proneness (25 negative schizotypy and 24 non-negative schizotypy were identified using cluster analysis) and 44 non-SPD individuals completed a battery of 'objective' executive function tests and a self-reported Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX) on everyday executive problems. The findings showed that individuals with SPD proneness including negative schizotypy and non-negative schizotypy did not have significant worse performance than non-SPD in most of 'objective' executive function tests, but self-reported significantly disproportionate more dysexecutive problems than non-SPD. Furthermore, SPD proneness, especially negative schizotypy was found to give undependable estimation on their everyday dysexecutive function while non-negative schizotypy was not. The current findings suggest that the subjective awareness of dysexecutive function may precede actual 'objective' executive function impairments in a subtype of SPD (non-negative schizotypy) and the subjective complaint of the daily dysexecutive behavior in SPD proneness, especially negative schizotypy might result from their unreliable estimation of executive function.
MDAS: an integrated system for metabonomic data analysis.	Metabonomics, the latest 'omics' research field, shows great promise as a tool in biomarker discovery, drug efficacy and toxicity analysis, disease diagnosis and prognosis. One of the major challenges now facing researchers is how to process this data to yield useful information about a biological system, e.g., the mechanism of diseases. Traditional methods employed in metabonomic data analysis use multivariate analysis methods developed independently in chemometrics research. Additionally, with the development of machine learning approaches, some methods such as SVMs also show promise for use in metabonomic data analysis. Aside from the application of general multivariate analysis and machine learning methods to this problem, there is also a need for an integrated tool customized for metabonomic data analysis which can be easily used by biologists to reveal interesting patterns in metabonomic data.In this paper, we present a novel software tool MDAS (Metabonomic Data Analysis System) for metabonomic data analysis which integrates traditional chemometrics methods and newly introduced machine learning approaches. MDAS contains a suite of functional models for metabonomic data analysis and optimizes the flow of data analysis. Several file formats can be accepted as input. The input data can be optionally preprocessed and can then be processed with operations such as feature analysis and dimensionality reduction. The data with reduced dimensionalities can be used for training or testing through machine learning models. The system supplies proper visualization for data preprocessing, feature analysis, and classification which can be a powerful function for users to extract knowledge from the data. MDAS is an integrated platform for metabonomic data analysis, which transforms a complex analysis procedure into a more formalized and simplified one. The software package can be obtained from the authors.
Correlates of objectively measured physical activity and sedentary behaviour in English children.	Evidence on the correlates of objectively measured physical activity and sedentary behaviour in childhood is limited. This study aimed to identify correlates of physical activity and sedentary behaviour among 7-year-old children in England.
The utility of the Faces Pain Scale in the assessment of shoulder pain in Turkish stroke patients: its relation with quality of life and psychologic status.	This study was planned to investigate the utility of the vertical Faces Pain Scale (FPS) in the assessment of pain in stroke patients using the shoulder pain model and to assess its utility in the Turkish patient population. The secondary aim was to analyze the association of FPS with the quality of life and depression in the study population.Thirty stroke patients (group I) and 30 controls (group II),all suffering from shoulder pain were included in the study.The patients with subacute shoulder pain and with no other known diseases and impairments were recruited as a control group. Shoulder pain was evaluated by the commonly used pain scales including the Visual Analogue Scale, Likert Pain Scale and 0–10 Numerical Rating Scale besides FPS. Depression was screened using Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and quality of life was evaluated using Short Form-36 (SF-36). FPS showed good correlations with the other pain scales in both the groups(r= 0.950–0.972 and 0.674–0.926, respectively). In group I,there were significant correlations between FPS and physical functioning, pain and emotional role subscales of SF-36 (r= – 0.432, 0.707 and – 0.461, respectively).Although there was a low correlation between the FPS and BDI scores, it was not statistically significant. In group II,FPS showed significant correlations with the BDI scores and all subscales of SF-36 except social functioning and vitality (r= – 0.679 to 0.848). FPS had a high degree of convergent validity and can be used in the assessment of shoulder pain in stroke patients. It may be a good alternative for pain assessment especially in patients with speech disorders and illiterate patients.
Studies on the breeding habitats of the vector mosquito Anopheles baimai and its relationship to malaria incidence in Northeastern region of India. Breeding habitats of Anopheles baimai and its role in incidence of malaria in Northeastern region of India.	Entomological survey was conducted to know the breeding habitat preference of the forest breeder malaria vector Anopheles baimaii, known earlier as An. dirus species D in the northeastern region of India. Breeding potential of the vector in forest areas was found to be high in water stored in jungle pool (69.84%) followed by elephant footprints with clear water (39.13%) and with turbid water (26.19%), whereas in forest fringe areas, the vector breeding was more prominent in elephant footprints: 65.11% in clear water and 62.5% in turbid water. Although other habitats had shown only low breeding of the vector, all types of habitats were positively correlated with malaria occurrence. Cattle hoof marks (r = 0.998) and elephant footprint (turbid; r = 0.999) explained nearly the same amount of variance. It was observed that deforestation as well as elephant habitat-type destruction had engendered man-elephant conflicts intensively in fringe areas. Seasonal abundance pattern of this vector was found to vary in forest and forest fringe areas in relation to different habitats. Seasonal abundance of An. baimaii was significantly different in different habitats. The Tukey post hoc comparisons indicated that the abundance of An. baimaii in different habitats was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in monsoon season than that of premonsoon and postmonsoon seasons. No significant difference was observed between premonsoon and postmonsoon seasons. The findings therefore will eventually help to predict transmission of malaria in targeted area and in formulating an improved malaria control program in the northeastern region of India.
Modeling length of stay in hospital and other right skewed data: comparison of phase-type, gamma and log-normal distributions.	To present a relatively novel method for modeling length-of-stay data and assess the role of covariates, some of which are related to adverse events. To undertake critical comparisons with alternative models based on the gamma and log-normal distributions. To demonstrate the effect of poorly fitting models on decision-making.
The role of emotion regulation in auditory hallucinations.	Emotion regulation involves the use of strategies to influence the experience and expression of emotions. Anxiety and depression are strongly associated with the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, such as auditory hallucinations (AHs). Individuals usually try to down-regulate (decrease) such emotions, consequently abnormal or maladaptive use of one or more of these down-regulatory processes (e.g. increased use of expressive suppression or maladaptive attentional deployment, i.e. rumination/worry) may play an important role in AHs (e.g. increasing AH severity and distress). This study examined the self-reported use of a range of emotion regulation strategies in individuals with schizophrenia and current AHs (SZ AH; N=34) and healthy controls (N=34). Two separable dimensions of hallucinatory experiences (severity and distress) were assessed together with measures of anxiety, depression and happiness. Within the SZ AH group, greater use of expressive suppression was associated with an increase in severity of AHs and greater disruption in daily life. In addition, rumination was significantly positively correlated with the distress (but not with the severity) associated with AHs. Within the control group, expressive suppression, rumination and worry were associated with more anxiety/depression and less happiness, as predicted. The implications of different emotion regulation strategies for the treatment of individuals with schizophrenia and AHs are discussed.
Environmental management for malaria control: knowledge and practices in Mvomero, Tanzania.	Environmental conditions play an important role in the transmission of malaria; therefore, regulating these conditions can help to reduce disease burden. Environmental management practices for disease control can be implemented at the community level to complement other malaria control methods. This study assesses current knowledge and practices related to mosquito ecology and environmental management for malaria control in a rural, agricultural region of Tanzania. Household surveys were conducted with 408 randomly selected respondents from 10 villages and qualitative data were collected through focus group discussions and in-depth interviews. Results show that respondents are well aware of the links between mosquitoes, the environment, and malaria. Most respondents stated that cleaning the environment around the home, clearing vegetation around the home, or draining stagnant water can reduce mosquito populations, and 63% of respondents reported performing at least one of these techniques to protect themselves from malaria. It is clear that many respondents believe that these environmental management practices are effective malaria control methods, but the actual efficacy of these techniques for controlling populations of vectors or reducing malaria prevalence in the varying ecological habitats in Mvomero is unknown. Further research should be conducted to determine the effects of different environmental management practices on both mosquito populations and malaria transmission in this region, and increased participation in effective techniques should be promoted.
Isothermal titration calorimetry and differential scanning calorimetry.	Isothermal titration [Holdgate (BioTechniques 31:164-184, 2001); Ward and Holdgate (Prog. Med. Chem. 38:309-376, 2001); O'Brien et al. (2001) Isothermal titration calorimetry of biomolecules. In: Harding, S. E. and Chowdhry, B. Z. (eds.), Protein-Ligand Interactions: Hydrodynamics and Calorimetry, A Practical Approach. Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK] and differential scanning calorimetry [Jelesarov and Bosshard (J. Mol. Recognit. 12:3-18, 1999); Privalov and Dragan (Biophys. Chem. 126:16-24, 2007); Cooper et al. (2001) Differential scanning microcalorimetry. In: Harding, S. E. and Chowdhry, B. Z. (eds.), Protein-Ligand Interactions: Hydrodynamics and Calorimetry, A Practical Approach. Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK] are valuable tools for characterising protein targets, and their interactions with ligands, during the drug discovery process. The parameters obtained from these techniques: triangle DeltaH, triangle DeltaG, triangle DeltaS, and triangle DeltaC (p), are properties of the entire system studied and may be composed of many contributions, including the binding reaction itself, conformational changes of the protein and/or ligand during complexation, changes in solvent organisation or other equilibria linked to the binding process. Dissecting and understanding these components, and how they contribute to binding interactions, is a critical step in the ability to design ligands that have high binding affinity for the target protein.
Small molecule protein interaction profiling with functional protein microarrays.	Small molecules possess the ability to interact with proteins and perturb their specific functions, a property that has been exploited for numerous research applications and to produce therapeutic agents in disease treatment. However, commonly utilized mass spectrometry-based approaches for identifying the target proteins for a small molecule have a number of limitations, particularly in terms of throughput and time and resource consumption. In addition, current technologies lack a mechanism to broadly assess the selectivity profile of the small molecule, which may be important for understanding off-target effects of the compound. Protein microarray technology has emerged as a powerful tool in the systems biology arsenal. Here, we describe how protein microarray technology can be applied to the study of small molecule protein interactions, with sensitivity sufficient to detect interactions with low muM affinity. These assays are highly reproducible, sensitive, and scalable, and provide an enabling technology for small molecule selectivity profiling in the context of drug development.
Factors affecting assertiveness among student nurses.	This study aimed to investigate the factors affecting assertiveness among student nurses. The study was carried out at Faculty of Nursing, Port-Said University, on 207 student nurses from four different grades. Rathus Assertiveness Schedule, consisted of 30 items, was used to measure the students' assertiveness level and a 12-item scale developed by Spreitzer was used to measure students' psychological empowerment. The study results showed that 60.4% of the students were assertive, while about half of the students were empowered. A positive relation between student assertiveness and psychological empowerment was detected. Moreover, positive relations regarding family income and students' assertiveness and psychological empowerment were determined. The study recommended introduction of specific courses aiming at enhancing the acquisition of assertiveness skills, in addition, nurse educators must motivate their students to express their opinion and personal rights and also they must pay attention for students' empowerment and enhance students' autonomy.
Decreased plasma tryptophan and tryptophan/large neutral amino acid ratio in patients with neuroleptic-resistant schizophrenia: relationship to plasma cortisol concentration.	Tryptophan is the precursor of kynurenine and kynurenic acid, an α-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist and a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, both of which have been implicated in schizophrenia (SCH), as well as of serotonin. Glucocorticoids can activate the tryptophan-kynurenine pathway and lower plasma tryptophan concentrations. Some previous studies have reported decreases in the plasma tryptophan concentration and the tryptophan/large neutral amino acid (LNAA) ratio, a measure reflecting the brain tryptophan concentration, in patients with SCH. However, the influence of plasma cortisol, which has been reported to be increased in patients with SCH, on plasma tryptophan levels has not been examined in prior studies. Thus, we examined plasma tryptophan concentrations, tryptophan/LNAA ratios, and their relationships with plasma cortisol concentrations in treatment-resistant SCH (TR-SCH) patients, in non-treatment-resistant SCH (NTR-SCH) patients, and in normal controls (NC). Plasma tryptophan concentrations were significantly lower in TR-SCH patients (n=74) than in NTR-SCH patients (n=85) and NC subjects (n=55). In addition, tryptophan/LNAA ratios were significantly lower in TR-SCH patients than in NC subjects. No difference was observed in either measure between NTR-SCH patients and NC subjects. Tryptophan/LNAA ratios and plasma tryptophan concentrations showed a significant negative correlation and a trend-level correlation, respectively, with plasma cortisol concentrations in TR-SCH patients, but not in NTR-SCH patients or in NC subjects. These results suggest the tryptophan-kynurenine pathway may be particularly relevant to TR-SCH and that this may be influenced by the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Impact and characteristics of quality of life in Japanese patients with multiple sclerosis.	To evaluate health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in Japanese patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and investigate associations between the results of these QOL assessments and disease severity.
Vaccination competence of graduating public health nurse students.	Vaccination is a globally significant health prevention method implemented by health care professionals around the world. To date, however, there has been little research measuring vaccinators' vaccination competence.
Leptomeningeal collateral and cerebral hemodynamics in patients with ICA and MCA steno-occlusion.	The purpose of our study was to evaluate the correlation between fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images of hyperintense vessel (HV), a representative of leptomeningeal vessels (LMVs), and cerebral vascular hemodynamic status in patients with steno-occlusive disease of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and middle cerebral artery (MCA).
Motor unit number estimation (MUNE) in diseases of the motor neuron: utility and comparative analysis in a multimodal biomarker study.	We prospectively studied 64 patients with motor neuron disease (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), familial ALS (fALS), progressive muscular atrophy (PMA) and primary lateral sclerosis (PLS)) using multiple point stimulation motor unit number estimation (MUNE), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (1H MRSI), diffusion tensor imaging (MRDTI), and clinical measures at baseline and every 3 months thereafter for 15 months. Substantial differences in MUNE were noted among the motor neuron disease subgroups (P = 0.0005) and mean values for each motor neuron disease subgroup were significantly lower vs. controls (ALS = 76, fALS = 80, PMA = 29, and PLS = 174) vs. the normal control average (267). MUNE correlated well with % FVC (r = 0.32; P = 0.01), manual muscle testing (r = 0.52; P < 0.0005), grip strength (r = 0.34; P = 0.007), and pinch strength (r = 0.49; P < 0.0005). Overall, MUNE showed the greatest significant change over time of any measure, clinical or otherwise, tested in this study (-2.35 linear trend % change per month, mean). MUNE clearly delineates lower motor neuron dysfunction, strongly correlates with important clinical functions (such as strength and respiration) and is a highly sensitive marker of disease progression over time. These features make MUNE an important tool for both the study of the pathophysiology of the motor neuron diseases, as well as an important measure for incorporation into future clinical trials.
Children's sleep, skin conductance level and mental health.	We examined relations between children's sympathetic nervous system activity, indexed by skin conductance level (SCL) during baseline and reactivity to a challenging task and their sleep problems. We also assessed SCL as a moderator of associations between children's sleep problems and their mental health. A sample of healthy and typically developing school-attending children (78 boys and 98 girls) participated (mean age=8.7years; standard deviation=0.36). Sleep was assessed via actigraphy and self-reports. Parents reported on children's externalizing behaviors and children reported their internalizing symptoms. Findings demonstrate that sleep disruptions (duration, quality) are associated with lower basal SCL. In the context of sleep problems, a lower level of basal SCL functioned as a vulnerability factor for depression symptoms and worse self-esteem. Further, children with both increased SCL reactivity and sleep problems were at risk for depression symptoms. Results illustrate the significance of simultaneous examinations of various biological and physiological systems in the prediction of children's wellbeing.
Movement deviation profile: a measure of distance from normality using a self-organizing neural network.	We introduce the Movement Deviation Profile (MDP), which is a single curve showing the deviation of an individual's movement from normality. Joint angles, recorded from typically developing children over one gait cycle, were used to train a self-organizing map (SOM) which then generated MDP curves for patients with gait problems. The mean MDP over the gait cycle showed a high correlation (r(2) = .927) with the Gait Deviation Index (GDI), a statistically significant difference between groups of patients with a range of functional levels (Gillette Functional Assessment Questionnaire Walking Scale 7-10) and a trend of increasing values for patients with cerebral palsy through hemiplegia I-IV, diplegia, triplegia, and quadriplegia. The small difference between the MDP and GDI can be explained by the SOM's method of operation comparing biomechanical patterns to the nearest abstract reference pattern, and its flexibility to compensate for temporal shifts in movement data. The MDP is an alternative method of processing complex biomechanical data, potentially supporting clinical interpretation. The electronic addendum accompanying this article is a standalone program, which can be used to calculate the MDP from gait data, and can also be used in other applications where the deviation of multi-channel temporal data from a reference is required.
Impact of a learning circle intervention across academic and service contexts on developing a learning culture.	Partnerships between university schools of nursing and health services lead to successful learning experiences for students and staff. A purposive sample of academics and students from a university school of nursing and clinicians from three health institutions involved in clinical learning (n=73) actively participated in a learning circles intervention conducted over 5 months in south east Queensland. Learning circle discussions resulted in enhanced communication and shared understanding regarding: (1) staff attitudes towards students, expectations and student assessment; (2) strategies enhancing preparation of students, mechanisms for greater support of and recognition of clinicians; (3) challenges faced by staff in the complex processes of leadership in clinical nursing education; (4) construction of learning, ideas for improving communication, networking and sharing; and (5) questioning routine practices that may not enhance student learning. Pre-post surveys of hospital staff (n=310) revealed significant differences across three sub-scales of 'accomplishment' (t=-3.98, p<.001), 'recognition' (t=-2.22, p<.027) and 'influence' (t=-11.82, p<.001) but not 'affiliation'. Learning circles can positively enhance organisational learning culture. The intervention enabled participants to recognise mutual goals. Further investigation around staff perception of their influence on their workplace is required.
Bowel sonography in sepsis with pathological correlation: an experimental study.	Sepsis predisposes full-term infants to necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). As such, experimental induction of NEC was applied to a sepsis model to evaluate the potential role of US in the early diagnosis of NEC in full-term infants.
Emotional intelligence and nursing performance among nursing students.	Some scholars have proposed that the educational preparation of nurses can be improved by incorporating emotional intelligence lessons into the nursing curricula. However, the relationship between emotional intelligence and nursing performance in nursing students is unknown. The purpose of the study was to examine this relationship among nursing students. A descriptive correlational design with non-probability sampling methods of 87 nursing students in a university setting was conducted. The variables of focus were emotional intelligence and nursing performance. Emotional intelligence was measured with the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT). Nursing performance was measured using the Six Dimension Scale of Nursing Performance (6-D Scale). The sample was predominately Caucasian (91%), female (93%), mean age 24 years. The mean score for emotional intelligence was 0.53, SD ± 0.06 indicating moderate emotional intelligence. The mean score for nursing performance was 3.14, SD ± 0.40 indicating moderate nursing performance. Emotional intelligence was related to nursing performance. Four of the six nursing performance subscale scores were significantly correlated with the total emotional intelligence scores. Implications for nursing education and clinical practice are discussed.
Assessment of postural control in patients with Parkinson's disease: sway ratio analysis.	Analysis of the postural stability impairments in neurodegenerative diseases is a very demanding task. Age-related declines in posturographic indices are usually superimposed on effects associated with the pathology and its treatment. We present the results of a novel postural sway ratio (SR) analysis in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and age-matched healthy subjects. The sway ratios have been assessed based upon center of foot-pressure (CP) signals recorded in 55 parkinsonians (Hoehn and Yahr: 1-3) and 55 age-matched healthy volunteers while standing quiet with eyes open (EO) and then with eyes closed (EC). Complementing classical sway measure abnormalities, the SR exhibited a high discriminative power for all controlled factors: pathology, vision, and direction of sway. Both the anteroposterior (AP) and mediolateral (ML) sway ratios were significantly increased in PD patients when compared to the control group. An additional SR increase was observed in the response to eyes closure. The sway ratio changes documented here can be attributed to a progressive decline of a postural stability control due to pathology. In fact, a significant correlation between the mediolateral SR under EO conditions and Motor Exam (section III) score of the UPDRS was found. The mediolateral sway ratios computed for EO and EC conditions significantly correlated with the CP path length (r = .87) and the mean anteroposterior CP position within the base of support (r = .38). Both indices reflect postural stability decline and fall tendency # in parkinsonians. The tremor-type PD patients (N=34) showed more pronounced relationships between the mediolateral SR and selected items from the UPDRS scale, including: falls (Kendall Tau=.47, p < .05), rigidity (.45, p < .05), postural stability (retropulsion) (.52), and the Motor Exam score (.73). The anteroposterior SR correlated only with tremor (Kendal Tau = .77, p < .05). It seems that in force plate posturography the SR can be recommended as a single reliable measure that allows for a better quantitative assessment of postural stability impairments.
Optimization of bioethanol production during simultaneous saccharification and fermentation in very high-gravity cassava mash.	Hydrolysis and fermentation conditions for production of ethanol from very high-gravity cassava mash by Saccharomyces cerevisiae during simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) processing were optimized using a statistical methodology. During the first part of the study, Placket-Burman design (PBD) was used to study 19 factors that could potentially influence ethanol production. Gravity, particle size, initial pH, and fermentation temperature were identified as key factors that significantly increased final ethanol concentration. The main and interaction effects of these factors were subsequently evaluated based on a quadratic equation generated by central composite design (CCD) using response-surface methodology (RSM). Under the optimized very high-gravity conditions, the final ethanol concentration obtained from experiment increased from 8.21% (wt.%) to 15.03% (wt.%) and was in good agreement with model prediction. By employing two other commercial Saccharomyces strains, similar results were obtained under the same optimized condition. Therefore, we conclude that final ethanol concentration, ethanol productivity (V (P/max)), glucose utilization (Y (G/s), Y (P/s)), and fermentation efficiency (η (f)) were enhanced or maintained under the optimized condition of 40% gravity, 390 μm particle size, initial pH 5.5, and 27°C fermentation temperature.
Analysis of the microbial community and geochemistry of a sediment core from Great Slave Lake, Canada.	Sediment cores taken from Great Slave Lake, Canada, were analysed to investigate their metabolically active microbial populations and geochemistry. The amplification of cDNA detected metabolically active bacterial (50 separate bands) and archaeal (49 separate band) communities. The bacterial communities were further resolved indicating active actinobacterial and γ-proteobacterial communities (36 and 43 individual bands respectively). Redundancy discriminate analysis and Monte Carlo permutation testing demonstrated the significant impact of geochemical parameters on microbial community structures. Geochemical analyses suggest that the upper 0.4 m represents soil weathering and erosion in the lake catchment. An increase in organic carbon in the lower core suggests either more primary productivity, indicating warmer climate conditions, associated with Holocene Climatic Optimum conditions pre 5,000 years BP or change from a reducing environment in the lower core to an oxidizing environment during more recent deposition. Drivers for bacterial, archaeal and actinobacterial community structures were sediment particle size, and its mineral composition. Depth also significantly affected γ- proteobacterial community structure. In contrast the organic carbon content did not significantly shape the microbial community structures within the sediment. This study indicates that geochemical parameters significantly contribute to microbial community structure in these sediments.
Atherosclerotic plaque pathohistology and classification with high-resolution MRI.	A series of research works had proven that high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was an effective tool to identify the morphological appearance of atherosclerotic vulnerable plaque. We performed further study to compare ex vivo vascular morphology with MRI and histological examination using the specimens of carotid endarterectomy and femoral artery (FA) prosthetic reconstruction, and described the detailed histology and immunohistochemistry features of plaque.
A comparison of competencies between problem-based learning and non-problem-based graduate nurses.	Competence is essential to ensuring safe, ethical and legal nursing practice. Various teaching strategies are used in nursing education in an effort to enhance graduate competence by bridging the gap between theory learned in the classroom and professional practice as a nurse. The objective of this comparative descriptive research was to determine if there was a difference in self reported competence between graduates from PBL and non PBL (NPBL) nursing programs. A convenience sample of 121 graduate nurses in one Canadian province, who had been practicing for at least 6 months took part in the study. The researcher designed questionnaire included both forced choice and open ended questions. There was no statistical significance difference between the PBL and NPBL graduates on self reported entry-to-practice competence. However, several significant themes did emerge from the answers to open ended questions which asked graduates how their nursing programs prepared them to meet the entry-to-practice competencies and what program improvements they might suggest. Unlike the NPBL graduates, the PBL graduates identified the structure and process of their programs as instrumental in their preparation to meet the entry-to-practice competencies. PBL graduates associated their abilities to think critically and engage in self-directed evidence-based practice as key to enabling them to meet the competencies. A common theme for program improvement for both PBL and NPBL graduates was a request for more clinical time.
The effects of insomnia and internet addiction on depression in Hong Kong Chinese adolescents: an exploratory cross-sectional analysis.	The negative association of insomnia and internet addiction with mental health is widely documented in the literature, yet little is known about their inter-relationships. The primary aim of this study was to examine the inter-relationships between insomnia, internet addiction and depression. A total of 719 Chinese adolescents in Hong Kong participated in this school-based cross-sectional study. Participants completed the Chinese version of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), the Chinese Internet Addiction Scale (CIAS), the 12-item version of General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12) and questions assessing internet use pattern and sociodemographic characteristics. The classification of internet addiction and insomnia was based on the CIAS cutoff global score >63 and PSQI cutoff global score >5, respectively. Multiple regression analyses tested the effects of insomnia and internet addiction on depression. Among students with internet addiction (17.2%), 51.7% were also identified as insomniacs. Internet addicts scored significantly poorer on all PSQI components, except sleep duration, than their non-addicted counterparts. After adjustment for gender and internet use time, both internet addiction (β=0.05; Sobel test Z=6.50, P<0.001) and insomnia (β=0.59; Sobel test Z=4.49, P<0.001) demonstrated a significant association with depression. Overall, there is high comorbidity between internet addiction and insomnia. Both insomnia and internet addiction emerged as significant explanatory factors, but they exerted differential effects on depression. Future research should be directed at determining the causal relationship between internet addiction and insomnia, and its underlying mechanism with depression.
The impact of an integrated pharmacology and medicines management curriculum for undergraduate adult nursing students on the acquisition of applied drug/pharmacology knowledge.	To investigate the efficacy of a 14-month integrated pharmacology and medicines management curriculum for undergraduate nursing students on the acquisition of applied drug/pharmacology knowledge.
Monitoring drinking behaviour and motivation to drink over successive doses of alcohol.	The objective of this study was to compare alcohol urge, drinking behaviour and mood across two beverage conditions (alcohol/soft drink), over multiple drinks. Forty-five (22 men) participants completed two conditions (alcohol/soft-drink). Baseline alcohol urge and mood was measured before an initial drink consumed (0.2 g/kg alcohol or lemonade). Four drinking phases, which provided alcohol and lemonade, followed. Alcohol urge, mood and liking/enjoyment of beverages were measured. Participants' typical drinking habits were recorded, allowing comparisons across drinking factors. Alcohol urge was greater in the alcohol condition (P<0.03), which positively correlated with liking and drinking enjoyment of the alcohol beverage (P<0.04). Binge drinking and weekly alcohol consumption positively related to alcohol urge during the first half of the alcohol condition (P<0.02). Feeling stimulated was positively related to alcohol urge (P<0.01). Sip latency was quickest for alcohol in the alcohol condition (P<0.001) and did not increase over time as in the soft-drink condition (P<0.001). This study presents a paradigm in which alcohol motivation can be assessed within more typical drinking occasion parameters. Urge related to alcohol's positive reinforcing effects. As more alcohol was consumed, a disassociation of liking and wanting alcohol occurred, indicating that different processes may underlie behaviour during different periods of a drinking occasion. 
Identifying the critical success factors in the coverage of low vision services using the classification analysis and regression tree methodology.	To identify the critical success factors (CSF) associated with coverage of low vision services.
Attitude of teaching faculty towards statistics at a medical university in Karachi, Pakistan.	Statistics is mainly used in biological research to verify the clinicians and researchers findings and feelings, and gives scientific validity for their inferences. In Pakistan, the educational curriculum is developed in such a way that the students who are interested in entering in the field of biological sciences do not study mathematics after grade 10. Therefore, due to their fragile background of mathematical skills, the Pakistani medical professionals feel that they do not have adequate base to understand the basic concepts of statistical techniques when they try to use it in their research or read a scientific article. The aim of the study was to assess the attitude of medical faculty towards statistics.
Identification of attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder and conduct disorder in Mexican children by the scale for evaluation of deficit of attention and hyperactivity.	The objective was weighing the usefulness of a Spanish-language Scale for the evaluation of deficit of attention and hyperactivity (EDAH) to identify children with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (AD-HD) and conduct disorder (CD) in a sample of school-aged children. We studied 132 children from a government-run public elementary school previously selected by teachers as having learning and attention disorders. We screened children of the sample with parents' and teachers' EDAH and Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV edition Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) questionnaires, and performed an interdisciplinary clinical examination for the final diagnosis. We found 81 children with AD-HD and 51 children without AD-HD. AD-HD was classified as follows: AD-HD-combined (-C), n=32; AD-HD-inattentive (-I), n=17 and AD-HD-hyperactive (-H), n=32. Cronbach's alpha calculation for the EDAH parents' questionnaire was 0.76, and for teachers, 0.80. Sensitivity of the teachers' EDAH questionnaire was 0.94, and specificity, 0.91. Sensitivity of the parents' EDAH questionnaire was 0.91, while specificity was 0.87. The data of EDAH parents' and teachers' questionnaires have a concordance of 93.1% and 80%, respectively. The correlation of scores among parents' and teachers' EDAH scales was significant. The correlation between results from parents' and teachers' DSM-IV-TR and EDAH questionnaires was also significant. Our results partially support the use of EDAH questionnaires for AD-HD and CD screening in Spanish-speaking populations.
Patterns of microRNA expression in normal and early Alzheimer's disease human temporal cortex: white matter versus gray matter.	MicroRNA (miRNA) expression was assessed in human cerebral cortical gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) in order to provide the first insights into the difference between GM and WM miRNA repertoires across a range of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. RNA was isolated separately from GM and WM portions of superior and middle temporal cerebral cortex (N = 10 elderly females, postmortem interval < 4 h). miRNA profiling experiments were performed using state-of-the-art Exiqon(©) LNA-microarrays. A subset of miRNAs that appeared to be strongly expressed according to the microarrays did not appear to be conventional miRNAs according to Northern blot analyses. Some well-characterized miRNAs were substantially enriched in WM as expected. However, most of the miRNA expression variability that correlated with the presence of early AD-related pathology was seen in GM. We confirm that downregulation of a set of miRNAs in GM (including several miR-15/107 genes and miR-29 paralogs) correlated strongly with the density of diffuse amyloid plaques detected in adjacent tissue. A few miRNAs were differentially expressed in WM, including miR-212 that is downregulated in AD and miR-424 which is upregulated in AD. The expression of certain miRNAs correlates with other miRNAs across different cases, and particular subsets of miRNAs are coordinately expressed in relation to AD-related pathology. These data support the hypothesis that patterns of miRNA expression in cortical GM may contribute to AD pathogenetically, because the aggregate change in miRNA expression observed early in the disease would be predicted to cause profound changes in gene expression.
Cerebellar hyperactivity during smooth pursuit eye movements in bipolar disorder.	Smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEM) are abnormal in individuals with schizophrenia and individuals with bipolar disorder. Functional imaging methods have revealed greater hippocampal activity and less frontotemporal, visual, and posterior cerebellar activity in individuals with schizophrenia when performing a SPEM task. The underlying neurobiology of SPEM deficits in bipolar disorder is unknown.
Proton MR spectroscopic imaging of basal ganglia and thalamus in neurofibromatosis type 1: correlation with T2 hyperintensities.	Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is frequently associated with hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted images called "unidentified bright objects" (UBO). To better characterize the functional significance of UBO, we investigate the basal ganglia and thalamus using spectroscopic imaging in children with NF1 and compare the results to anomalies observed on T2-weighted images.
Gene-environment interaction in the etiology of mathematical ability using SNP sets.	Mathematics ability and disability is as heritable as other cognitive abilities and disabilities, however its genetic etiology has received relatively little attention. In our recent genome-wide association study of mathematical ability in 10-year-old children, 10 SNP associations were nominated from scans of pooled DNA and validated in an individually genotyped sample. In this paper, we use a 'SNP set' composite of these 10 SNPs to investigate gene-environment (GE) interaction, examining whether the association between the 10-SNP set and mathematical ability differs as a function of ten environmental measures in the home and school in a sample of 1888 children with complete data. We found two significant GE interactions for environmental measures in the home and the school both in the direction of the diathesis-stress type of GE interaction: The 10-SNP set was more strongly associated with mathematical ability in chaotic homes and when parents are negative.
The Bootstrap Discovery Behaviour (BDB): a new outlook on usability evaluation.	The value of λ is one of the main issues debated in international usability studies. The debate is centred on the deficiencies of the mathematical return on investment model (ROI model) of Nielsen and Landauer (1993). The ROI model is discussed in order to identify the base of another model that, respecting Nielsen and Landauer's one, tries to consider a large number of variables for the estimation of the number of evaluators needed for an interface. Using the bootstrap model (Efron 1979), we can take into account: (a) the interface properties, as the properties at zero condition of evaluation and (b) the probability that the population discovery behaviour is represented by all the possible discovery behaviours of a sample. Our alternative model, named Bootstrap Discovery Behaviour (BDB), provides an alternative estimation of the number of experts and users needed for a usability evaluation. Two experimental groups of users and experts are involved in the evaluation of a website (http://www.serviziocivile.it). Applying the BDB model to the problems identified by the two groups, we found that 13 experts and 20 users are needed to identify 80% of usability problems, instead of 6 experts and 7 users required according to the estimation of the discovery likelihood provided by the ROI model. The consequence of the difference between the results of those models is that in following the BDB the costs of usability evaluation increase, although this is justified considering that the results obtained have the best probability of representing the entire population of experts and users.
Initial fiber alignment pattern alters extracellular matrix synthesis in fibroblast-populated fibrin gel cruciforms and correlates with predicted tension.	Human dermal fibroblasts entrapped in fibrin gels cast in cross-shaped (cruciform) geometries with 1:1 and 1:0.5 ratios of arm widths were studied to assess whether tension and alignment of the cells and fibrils affected ECM deposition. The cruciforms of contrasting geometry (symmetric vs. asymmetric), which developed different fiber alignment patterns, were harvested at 2, 5, and 10 weeks of culture. Cruciforms were subjected to planar biaxial testing, polarimetric imaging, DNA and biochemical analyses, histological staining, and SEM imaging. As the cruciforms compacted and developed fiber alignment, fibrin was degraded, and elastin and collagen were produced in a geometry-dependent manner. Using a continuum mechanical model that accounts for direction-dependent stress due to cell traction forces and cell contact guidance with aligned fibers that occurs in the cruciforms, the mechanical stress environment was concluded to influence collagen deposition, with deposition being the greatest in the narrow arms of the asymmetric cruciform where stress was predicted to be the largest.
Validation of the FACT-G scale for evaluating quality of life in cancer patients in Colombia.	To validate the FACT-G scale for measuring quality of life of patients with cancer in Colombia.
Context affects feeling-of-knowing accuracy in younger and older adults.	In feeling of knowing (FOK) studies, participants predict subsequent recognition memory performance on items that were initially encoded but that cannot presently be recalled. Research suggests that FOK judgment magnitude may be influenced by the total amount, or quantity, of contextual information retrieved related to the unrecalled target (e.g., Koriat, 1993). The present study examined the contribution of quality of that information to episodic FOK judgments. In addition, we tested whether the episodic FOK deficit demonstrated by older adults could be reduced by encouraging retrieval of contextual information relevant to the target. Three experiments demonstrated that quality of the retrieved partial information influenced FOK judgments in both older and younger adults; however, the manifestation of that influence was age dependent. The results also indicated that older adults required explicit retrieval of contextual information before making FOK judgments in order to make accurate FOK predictions. The results suggest that FOK accuracy may be partially determined by search processes triggered when participants are queried for contextual information.
Associations between depressive symptom dimensions and smoking dependence motives.	Depressive symptoms are heterogeneous and can be parsed into four subdimensions (i.e., positive affect [PA], negative affect [NA], somatic features [SF], and interpersonal problems [IP]) that may have unique associations with the motivation to smoke. This study explored associations between depressive symptom dimensions and 13 theoretically distinct domains of smoking dependence motivation in current cigarette smokers (N = 212; 53% female, mean [M] age = 24 years). Results demonstrated substantial variability in the pattern of motivational correlates across depressive dimensions. Low PA exhibited the narrowest motivational profile, associating with only the tendency to prioritize smoking over other reinforcers. NA demonstrated a broader profile, associating with smoking for affect regulation and cognitive enhancement as well as prioritizing smoking. SF associated with prioritizing smoking and smoking because of cue exposure, craving, and weight control. IP demonstrated the broadest profile, associating with 7 of 13 motivational domains. These findings may assist the tailoring cessation interventions for smokers with depressive symptoms.
Ultrasonographic evaluation of degenerative changes in the distal radioulnar joint: correlation of findings with gross anatomy and MR arthrography in cadavers.	To determine the accuracy of ultrasonography (US) in the evaluation of degenerative changes in the distal radioulnar joint (DRUJ).
A new DTL-electrode holder for recording of electroretinograms in animals.	Contact lens electrodes (CLEs) are frequently used to register electroretinograms (ERGs) in small animals such as mice or rats. CLEs are expensive to buy or difficult to be produced individually. In addition, CLE's have been noticed to elicit inconstant results and they carry potential to injure the cornea. Therefore, a new electrode holder was constructed based on the clinically used DTL-electrode and compared to CLEs.
Protective effect of curcumin and its combination with piperine (bioavailability enhancer) against haloperidol-associated neurotoxicity: cellular and neurochemical evidence.	Long-term treatment with haloperidol is associated with a number of extrapyramidal side effects, particularly the irregular movements of chorionic type. This limitation presents a marked therapeutic challenge. The present study investigates the molecular etiology of haloperidol neurotoxicity and the role of curcumin, a well-known anti-oxidant, in ameliorating these adverse effects. The redox status of haloperidol-treated brains along with NO, TNF-α, NF-kappaB p65 subunit, caspase-3, and monoamine neurotransmitters were measured in the striatum of rat brain. Chronic treatment with haloperidol (5 mg/kg, i.p., 21 days) produced orofacial dyskinetic movements which were coupled with marked increase in oxidative stress parameters, TNF-α, caspase-3 activity in cytoplasmic lysate and active p65 sub unit of NF-kappaB in nuclear lysates of the striatum. Neurochemically, chronic administration of haloperidol resulted in a significant decrease in the levels of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. The prototype atypical anti-psychotic, clozapine (10 mg/kg, i.p., 21 days) produced mild oxidative stress but did not alter any other parameters. Interestingly, co-administration of curcumin (25 and 50 mg/kg, i.p., 21 days) dose-dependently prevented all the behavioral, cellular, and neurochemical changes associated with the chronic administration of haloperidol. Curcumin per se (50 mg/kg) did not show any side effects. Co-administration of piperine significantly enhanced the effect of curcumin (25 mg/kg) but not of curcumin (50 mg/kg). Collectively, the data indicated the potential of curcumin as an adjunct to haloperidol treatment and provided initial clues to the underlying molecular mechanisms in haloperidol neurotoxicity. This study also provides a rationale for the combination of piperine and curcumin.
Clarifying the role of emotion dysregulation in the interpersonal-psychological theory of suicidal behavior in an undergraduate sample.	The interpersonal-psychological theory of suicidal behavior (IPTS; Joiner, 2005) has been subjected to a number of rigorous investigations and has shown to be a promising lens through which to understand suicide. One area thus far left unstudied with respect to the IPTS is emotion dysregulation. The bulk of the work examining the role of emotion dysregulation in suicidality has focused on suicidal ideation rather than behavior, with a number of studies reporting that emotion dysregulation is predictive of suicidal ideation (e.g., Lynch et al., 2004; Orbach et al., 2007). Studies examining suicide attempts have produced more ambiguous results. One way to clarify the nature of this relationship is to consider the construct of emotion dysregulation through an examination of specific subcomponents. In this study, we examined two specific components of emotion dysregulation - negative urgency and distress tolerance - and their relationships to all three components of the IPTS, thereby providing clarity for an otherwise poorly understood relationship. Results indicated that emotionally dysregulated individuals - those with low distress tolerance and high negative urgency - exhibited higher levels of suicidal desire, as indexed by perceived burdensomeness and thwarted belongingness. In contrast, emotionally dysregulated individuals exhibited lower levels of the acquired capability for suicide and physiological pain tolerance. As such, a complicated but theoretically cogent picture emerged indicating that, although emotion dysregulation may drastically increase the likelihood of suicidal desire, it simultaneously serves as a form protection against lethal self-harm.
Vital exhaustion, depressive symptoms and serum triglyceride levels in high-risk middle-aged men.	The role of elevated serum triglyceride level as a risk factor of coronary artery disease is well established. Previous results have also indicated that depression or depressive symptoms and vital exhaustion correlate with triglyceride levels. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations of depressive symptoms, vital exhaustion, and health behavior with serum triglyceride levels. The study sample comprised 444 high-risk middle-aged men. Participants completed self-report questionnaires before laboratory tests. Triglyceride concentrations were measured by the enzymatic method. Vital exhaustion and depression were associated with unhealthy lifestyles and triglycerides. Vital exhaustion and depression were closely correlated constructs with comparable relations with known coronary artery disease risk factors. When comparing vital exhaustion (VE) to Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), however, the first one had a stronger correlation with triglycerides (TG), and also, path analyses showed a direct link from vital exhaustion to body mass index but not from depression. Both vital exhaustion and depression are related to triglyceride levels. The relations are partly mediated by unfavorable lifestyles. Although vital exhaustion is not so commonly assessed as depression, results of this study support the importance of vital exhaustion as a health-related psychological risk factor.
Serum prolactin and macroprolactin in heart failure: no relation to established laboratory or clinical parameters.	A few smaller studies have reported that the prolactin concentration is elevated in connection with heart failure. As heart failure is combined with disturbances of several biological systems any or all of which may also influence prolactin concentrations, we wanted to evaluate the relation of prolactin to prognosis in elderly patients.
Survival motor neuron (SMN) protein in the spinal anterior horn cells of patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease involving mainly the upper and lower motor neurons of adult humans. With regard to the pathomechanism of spinal anterior horn cell (AHC) degeneration in ALS, copy number abnormalities of the survival motor neuron (SMN) genes have been reported in sporadic (s) ALS. SMN protein is the protein responsible for the pathogenesis of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), an autosomal recessive disease characterized by lower motor neuron loss and muscle atrophy. The disease is caused by deficiency of SMN protein induced by mutation of one of the SMA-associated genes, SMN1. To clarify the role of SMN protein in the degeneration of spinal AHCs in sALS, we examined the amount of cytoplasmic SMN protein in individual AHCs using cytofluorophotometry in 9 patients with sALS and 10 control subjects. It was found that: 1) SMN protein was present in the cytoplasm, nucleus and nucleolus of AHCs and in the nucleus of glial cells, 2) expression of SMN protein in AHCs was significantly associated with cell size in both sALS patients and controls, 3) expression of SMN protein per unit area in AHCs was similar in sALS patients and controls. These findings suggest that: 1) the amount of SMN protein in the cytoplasm of AHCs is strictly controlled in accordance with cell size, in both sALS patients and controls, 2) the amount of SMN protein in the AHCs of sALS patients may be reduced when the AHCs are atrophic, and 3) decrease of SMN protein in the AHCs of sALS patients may be a secondary, and not primary, phenomenon according to their sizes.
The effects of neonatal forebrain cholinergic lesion on adult hippocampal neurogenesis.	Previous work in our laboratory indicated that cholinergic denervation by intraventricular infusion of 192-IgG-saporin on postnatal day 7 (N192S) reduced the number of cells in the dentate gyrus expressing doublecortin, a marker for immature neuroblasts. In addition, there was a suggestion that N192S impaired the neurogenic response to environmental enrichment (EE). The purpose of the present study was to further characterize the impact of N192S on the proliferation, differentiation and survival of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus. After 42 days in EE or standard housing, all rats received injections of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label dividing cells. They were sacrificed either one day (to assess cell proliferation) or 28 days later (to assess survival and differentiation of BrdU-labelled cells). EE failed to increase neurogenesis, thereby preventing determination of the effects of N192S on EE-induced neurogenesis. However, N192S by itself reduced the number of BrdU(+) cells 1 day after BrdU exposure, but did not alter the number of cells expressing the cell cycle marker Ki-67. The number of BrdU(+) cells 28 days after BrdU exposure was not affected by N192S. Confocal analysis of BrdU(+) cells double-immunofluorescently stained to detect NeuN or S100B indicated that N192S did not alter the proportion of new cells that adopted a neuronal or glial identity. The most plausible explanation for these results is that N192S accelerates the death of newborn cells, but does not change their overall survival rate or phenotypic differentiation.
Stimulus content and the neural correlates of source memory.	It has been suggested that several regions of the brain, including subregions of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and the posterior parietal cortex, contribute to source memory success in a material-general manner, with most models highlighting the importance of memory process rather than material type. For the MTL in particular, however, increasing evidence suggests that MTL subregions may be specialized for processing different materials, raising the possibility that source memory-related activity may be material-sensitive. Previous fMRI studies have not directly compared source memory activity for different categories of stimuli, and it remains unclear whether source memory effects, in the MTL or elsewhere, are influenced by material. To investigate this issue, young participants were scanned during study while they made semantic judgments about words, pictures of objects and scenes, and during test when they retrieved the context (source) in which these items were studied. Several regions, including the hippocampi, medial and lateral parietal cortex, exhibited source memory effects common to words, objects and scenes, at both study and test. Material-dependent source memory effects were also identified in the left posterior inferior frontal and left perirhinal cortex for words and objects, respectively, at study but not test. These results offer direct support for the hypothesis that the MTL and posterior parietal cortex make material-general contributions to recollection. These results also point to a dissociation between encoding and retrieval with regard to the influence of material on the neural correlates of source memory accuracy, supporting the idea that a relatively small proportion of the activity elicited by a stimulus during encoding is incorporated into an episodic memory representation of the stimulus.
Effects of acute post-treatment with dipyridamole in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia.	Dipyridamole (DP) is a platelet inhibitor with known antithrombotic benefits in stroke prevention. In addition to its anti-aggregant properties, recent studies have reported that DP promotes anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative and neuroprotective effects. We aimed to test whether post-treatment with DP may exert protection after ischemic cerebral injury in the rat. For this purpose, rats were subjected to 120 min or 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) followed by 24 or 48 h of reperfusion, respectively. Either DP (100mg/kg) or vehicle was administered i.v. at the onset of reperfusion; rats subjected to 90 min MCAO also received additional doses of DP orally (60 mg/kg) at 24 and 36 h after ischemia. Matrix metalloproteinases, extravasated hemoglobin content and IL-6, MIP-1α and MCP-1 cytokine level were examined in brain tissue by zymography, western blot and multiple ELISA, respectively. DP post-treatment led to a neurological improvement in both models (p < 0.05) and a significant reduction in the infarct volume of rats subjected to 90 min of ischemia, as compared to vehicle group (7.9% vs. 24.4%, p = 0.03). This neuroprotection was accompanied by a modest increase in expression of MMP-9 pro-form and a significant attenuation of MIP-1α levels in the infarcted hemisphere. These results provide support for the development of novel therapies based on DP for acute treatment of stroke. In selected animals, intravenous administration of high dose DP induced an adverse hypotensive effect leading to rapid death. Thus, alternative ways of acute administration must be examined in order to avoid this unfavorable effect.
Whole-heart coronary magnetic resonance angiography at 1.5 Tesla: does a blood-pool contrast agent improve diagnostic accuracy?	To evaluate the impact of the blood-pool contrast agent gadofosveset trisodium on diagnostic accuracy of whole-heart coronary magnetic resonance angiography (CMRA) at 1.5 Tesla.
Assessment and monitoring tumor vascularity with contrast-enhanced ultrasound maximum intensity persistence imaging.	Contrast-enhanced ultrasound imaging is increasingly being used in the clinic for assessment of tissue vascularity. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effect of different contrast administration parameters on the in vivo ultrasound imaging signal in tumor-bearing mice using a maximum intensity persistence (MIP) algorithm and to evaluate the reliability of in vivo MIP imaging in assessing tumor vascularity. The potential of in vivo MIP imaging for monitoring tumor vascularity during antiangiogenic cancer treatment was further evaluated.
A framework for practical and rigorous impact monitoring by field managers of marine protected areas.	Monitoring is a crucial component of conservation in marine protected areas (MPAs) as it allows managers to detect changes to biodiversity and to infer cause of change. However, the complexities of sampling designs and associated statistical analyses can impede implementation of monitoring by managers. Two monitoring frameworks commonly used in marine environments are statistical testing and parameter estimation. For many managers these two approaches fail to help them detect change and infer causation for one or more reasons: the complexity of the statistical test, no decision-making structure and a sampling design that is suboptimal. In collaboration with marine park rangers in Egypt, we instigated a monitoring framework to detect impacts by snorkelers in a pragmatic but scientifically rigorous way. First, we used a literature review to define causal criteria to facilitate inference. This was essential because our sampling design was suboptimal due to a lack of baseline data and there was only one impact site. Second, we established a threshold level of coral damage that if exceeded would trigger management to reduce the impact of snorkelers. This provided a clear decision-making structure. Third, we estimated effect sizes with confidence intervals to detect change. For the field managers, this approach to detection was easier to understand than assessing a null hypothesis and provided critical information for decision making. At no stage during the short study period did snorkelers cause damage that exceeded the threshold and thus mitigation was not required. In situations of technical and financial constraints this framework will increase the implementation of effective impact monitoring for many activities in MPAs and enhance management of marine biodiversity.
Psychometric evaluation of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) in three diverse samples.	Our objective was to evaluate the utility of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) in both non-clinical and clinical populations. The MoCA, a tool used widely in clinical geriatric practice to detect and quantify cognitive impairment, was administered to three diverse samples to assess the psychometric properties of the instrument. Participants were 482 healthy persons seen in the Cooper Center Longitudinal Study (CCLS), 1923 healthy volunteers evaluated by the Dallas Heart Study (DHS), a population-based sample of Dallas County residents and 69 persons with known or suspected brain pathology, seen for clinical evaluation. The standard deviations in the CCLS and DHS groups were small (2.81, 3.87) and moderate in the clinical group (5.22). The corresponding raw coefficients alpha were. 50,. 63, and. 75. Thus, variability and internal consistency were associated. MoCA scores generally did not correlate with gender and correlated with age only in the clinical group. However, there were moderately strong positive correlations between MoCA scores and education in all three samples. The reliability of the MoCA was extremely low in the two non-clinical groups, but was high in the clinical group. Although useful in large non-clinical studies, the MoCA is best suited to detect and quantify cognitive impairment in clinical patients.
Cardiovascular responses after brisk finger movement and their dependency on the "eigenfrequency" of the baroreflex loop.	The baroreflex is mainly involved in short-term blood pressure regulation and strongly influenced by activations of medullary circulation centres in the brain stem and higher brain centres. One important feature of the baroreflex is its strong preference for oscillations around 0.1Hz, which can be seen as resonance or "eigenfrequency" (EF) of the control loop (so-called Mayer waves). In the present study we investigated beat-to-beat heart rate intervals (RRI) and arterial blood pressure (BP) changes after brisk finger movement and their relationship to the "eigenfrequency" determined by cross spectral analysis between RRI and arterial blood pressure time series of 17 healthy subjects. The analyses revealed significant correlations between BP response magnitude (r=0.63, p<0.01) respectively RRI response magnitude (r=0.59, p<0.05) and EF. This can be interpreted in such a way that subjects with a "high" EF (> 0.10 Hz) elicit larger BP responses as well as larger RRI responses when compared to subjects with a "low" EF (< 0.10 Hz).
Correlation of matrix metalloproteinases-1 and -3 with patient age and grade of lumbar disc herniation.	The authors studied the histological alterations and the expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-3 in disc specimens of patients who had undergone operations for lumbar disc herniation.
Automated and quantitative image analysis of ischemic dendritic blebbing using in vivo 2-photon microscopy data.	Ischemia induces a 'blebbing' of dendrites, a structural alteration where dendrites take on a 'beads on a string' appearance. We developed a toolkit program, BlebQuant, for quantitative automated bleb analysis to chart the morphology of dendrites labeled with GFP/YFP under normal conditions and after ischemia-induced damage. In vivo 2-photon data from mouse layer 5 neurons with apical dendritic tufts extending to the cortical surface were examined before, during, and after global ischemia. To quantify changes in dendritic structure, we used morphometric tools that exploit characteristic features of blebbing, distinguished as localized regions of spherical or ellipsoid swellings. By comparing acquired images during ischemia and reperfusion to a pre-ischemia reference image, our automated approach detected blebs based on defined eccentricity and area thresholds and quantified the percentage of blebbed dendrites based on a block-selection method. Our results indicate that the automated morphometric indices we employ yield results that correlate with manual assessment. The automated approach permits rapid and effective analysis of dendritic structure and may facilitate the study of ischemic dendritic damage.
Combined lung-sound and reflux-monitoring: a pilot study of a novel approach to detect nocturnal respiratory symptoms in gastro-oesophageal reflux disease.	Increased prevalence of respiratory symptoms has been commonly reported in patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
Association of plasma B-type natriuretic peptide levels with shunt size in young adults with atrial septal defect.	This study was designed to investigate the validity of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels for the estimation of the shunt size in young adults with atrial septal defect (ASD), and to determine the relationship between BNP levels and echocardiographic parameters of right heart chambers.
A powerful hybrid approach to select top single-nucleotide polymorphisms for genome-wide association study.	Genome-wide association (GWA) study has recently become a powerful approach for detecting genetic variants for common diseases without prior knowledge of the variant's location or function. Generally, in GWA studies, the most significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with top-ranked p values are selected in stage one, with follow-up in stage two. The value of selecting SNPs based on statistically significant p values is obvious. However, when minor allele frequencies (MAFs) are relatively low, less-significant p values can still correspond to higher odds ratios (ORs), which might be more useful for prediction of disease status. Therefore, if SNPs are selected using an approach based only on significant p values, some important genetic variants might be missed. We proposed a hybrid approach for selecting candidate SNPs from the discovery stage of GWA study, based on both p values and ORs, and conducted a simulation study to demonstrate the performance of our approach.
Correlation of preoperative depression and somatic perception scales with postoperative disability and quality of life after lumbar discectomy.	Lumbar discectomy is the most common surgical procedure performed in the US for patients experiencing back and leg pain from herniated lumbar discs. However, not all patients will benefit from lumbar discectomy. Patients with certain psychological predispositions may be especially vulnerable to poor clinical outcomes. The goal of this study was therefore to determine the role that preoperative depression and somatic anxiety have on long-term back and leg pain, disability, and quality of life (QOL) for patients undergoing single-level lumbar discectomy.
Cognition-UPSA score relationships: a further analysis of Silverstein et al. (2010) data and some caveats.	Silverstein et al. (2010) reported correlations between scores on the UCSD Performance-Based Skills Assessment (UPSA) and scores on two cognitive test batteries (MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery and IntegNeuro) that were lower than those reported in past studies. The large sample size of that 4-site study (155 patients with schizophrenia) allowed for further analyses of the data to explore the reasons for the discrepancy. We examined the data from Silverstein et al. (2010) to determine if the correlation values obtained were affected by UPSA scoring method, site differences, patient level of functioning, range restriction, missing data, and/or whether data from the first or second administration of each cognitive test battery were used. Results indicate that the overall lower cognition-UPSA correlations were a function of a single site with unusually low correlations. However, the low correlations at this site were not a function of any of the potential causes we examined. Correlations at the other sites were close to or within the range reported in past studies. Interestingly, the correlation between IntegNeuro and UPSA composite scores was higher at Time 2, suggesting that cognition-UPSA correlations are affected by familiarity with the computerized test format.
Differential sensory gating functions between smokers and non-smokers among drug-naive first episode schizophrenic patients.	Although an acute effect of cigarette smoking and nicotine on sensory gating of schizophrenias has been investigated in published papers, the chronic effect of cigarette smoking on this phenomenon has not yet been reported. We report the effects of chronic cigarette smoking, without new acute exposure before testing, on sensory gating using the P50 auditory evoked potential in a group of drug-naive first episode schizophrenic smokers and healthy smokers. Sensory gating was evaluated using auditory P50 suppression elicited using the conditioning (S1)-testing (S2) paradigm. Fifty six male drug-naive first episode schizophrenic patients were compared to 41 healthy male controls. Patients were classified into subgroups of current smokers (n=18) and non-smokers (n=38) to explore the effects of smoking on sensory gating. All subjects did not smoke a cigarette for at least 1h prior to testing. Schizophrenic patients showed an increased S2 amplitude and a poorer sensory gating as measured by both S2/S1 ratio and S1-S2 difference of P50 amplitude, as compared to healthy controls. However, smokers showed an increased S1 amplitude and better sensory gating than did non-smokers both in schizophrenia patients and healthy controls. Our findings support a sensory gating deficit among first episode schizophrenic patients. However, it was less pronounced among schizophrenic patients who were current cigarette smokers, suggesting a positive effect of chronic cigarette smoking on ameliorating this sensory gating deficit in schizophrenia. Our findings of the present study present new evidence supporting the self-medication hypothesis of self-medication by cigarette smoking in schizophrenia to possibly ameliorate pre-existing functional deficits.
The antidepressant effect of ketamine is not associated with changes in occipital amino acid neurotransmitter content as measured by [(1)H]-MRS.	The NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine can induce a rapid improvement in depressive symptoms that often endures for days after a single intravenous dose. The pharmacodynamic basis for this effect is poorly understood. Using a proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ([(1)H]-MRS) method that previously detected a normalization of amino acid neurotransmitter (AANt) content after chronic treatment with conventional antidepressant treatments, we examined whether the acute action of ketamine is associated with alterations in AANt content as well. Ten subjects with major depressive disorder (MDD) received saline, then ketamine in a fixed order, one week apart, under single-blind conditions. Each infusion was associated with three [(1)H] MRS scans (baseline, 3h and 48 h post-infusion) that measured glutamate, GABA and glutamine within the occipital cortex. Rating scales were administered before, during and after each infusion. The rapid (1h) and sustained (at least 7 days) antidepressant effect we observed after ketamine infusion was not associated with either baseline measures of, or changes in, occipital AANt content. Dissociative symptoms were not correlated with changes in depression scores. While our results indicate that changes in occipital AANt content are not a correlate of ketamine's antidepressant action, this may only apply to the regional and temporal windows of our MRS measurements.
The use of caspase inhibitors in pulsed-field gel electrophoresis may improve the estimation of radiation-induced DNA repair and apoptosis.	Radiation-induced DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair can be tested by using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) in agarose-encapsulated cells. However, previous studies have reported that this assay is impaired by the spontaneous DNA breakage in this medium. We investigated the mechanisms of this fragmentation with the principal aim of eliminating it in order to improve the estimation of radiation-induced DNA repair.
Time series fMRI measures detect changes in pontine raphé following acute tryptophan depletion.	Serotonin is synthesized from its precursor, tryptophan, by brainstem raphé neurons and their synaptic terminals in limbic regions. The omission of tryptophan from an Acute Tryptophan Depletion (ATD) diet transiently diminishes serotonin synthesis, alters raphé activity, and mimics symptoms of depression. Raphé functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) poses challenges using signal-averaging analyses. Time-series properties of fMRI blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signals may hold promise, so we analyzed raphé signals for changes with the ATD diet. Eleven remitted (previously depressed) patients were awake with eyes-closed during seven-minute resting scans with 0.5s(-1) sampling. BOLD signal time-series data were frequency-filtered using wavelet transforms, yielding three octave-width frequency bands from 0.25 to 0.03s(-1) and an unbounded band below 0.03s(-1). Spectral power, reflecting signal information, increased in pontine raphé at high frequencies (0.25 to 0.125s(-1)) during ATD (compared to control, balanced, diet, P<0.004) but was unchanged at other frequencies. Functional connectivity, the correlation between time-series data from pairs of regions, weakened between pontine raphé and anterior thalamus at low frequencies during ATD (P<0.05). This preliminarily supports using fMRI time-series features to assess pontine raphé function. Whether, and how, high frequency activity oscillations interfere with low frequency signaling requires further study.
Voxel-based morphometric analysis on the volume of gray matter in bipolar I disorder.	A number of previous studies have found that bipolar disorder is associated with abnormalities of brain structure. In this study we used optimized voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to compare gray matter volume between patients with bipolar I disorder and healthy controls. Twenty-four bipolar I patients (15 males and nine females) and 36 healthy controls (21 males and 15 females), who were well matched for age and gender, were scanned using structural magnetic resonance imaging. Gray matter volume was assessed and compared using optimized VBM, and the correlation between duration of illness/number of episodes and regional volumes was analyzed. There was no difference in whole-brain gray matter volume between the two groups. Optimized vVBM showed that subjects with bipolar I disorder had smaller volumes in the left inferior parietal lobule, right superior temporal gyrus, right middle frontal gyrus and left caudate. Only the volume of the right middle frontal gyrus was correlated with duration of illness and number of episodes in patients. These results suggest widespread gray matter defects in bipolar I disorder, which may play an important role in onset of the illness.
Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness in vigabatrin-exposed patients.	Vigabatrin-associated visual field loss (VAVFL) occurs in 25 to 50% of exposed patients and is routinely monitored using perimetry, which has inherent limitations. Using optical coherence tomography (OCT), retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thinning has been described in a small number of vigabatrin-exposed patients. We explored the relationship between RNFL thickness and visual field size, to determine whether OCT is a suitable tool to use in patients exposed to vigabatrin.
Meta-analysis of haplotype-association studies: comparison of methods and empirical evaluation of the literature.	Meta-analysis is a popular methodology in several fields of medical research, including genetic association studies. However, the methods used for meta-analysis of association studies that report haplotypes have not been studied in detail. In this work, methods for performing meta-analysis of haplotype association studies are summarized, compared and presented in a unified framework along with an empirical evaluation of the literature.
A report on the piloting of a novel computer-based medical case simulation for teaching and formative assessment of diagnostic laboratory testing.	Insufficient attention has been given to how information from computer-based clinical case simulations is presented, collected, and scored. Research is needed on how best to design such simulations to acquire valid performance assessment data that can act as useful feedback for educational applications. This report describes a study of a new simulation format with design features aimed at improving both its formative assessment feedback and educational function.
Students with LD in higher education: use and contribution of assistive technology and website courses and their correlation to students' hope and well-being.	This study examined the extent and patterns of usage of web courses, and their contribution to the academic and social perceptions of 964 undergraduate students with and without learning disabilities studying in higher education. Students were asked to complete four questionnaires examining the usage patterns of various adaptive technologies and their contribution to the student. The questionnaires assessed Perceptions of Learning through Online Usage; Accessibility of Campus Computing; Hope Scale and Subjective Well-being Scale. A detailed examination of the usage patterns of online courses revealed that, compared to the comparison group, students with LD log more often into the course sites, going into the forum more frequently and leaving significantly more messages on the forum than students in the comparison group. Findings indicated that students with LD are more familiar with assistive technology and use it more than the comparison group. Students with LD reported higher scores on the Hope scale, they felt an increased drive to find different pathways to attain their goals, as well as being motivated to pursue those goals, and their subjective well-being was higher that of the students in the comparison group.
(99m)Tc sulfur colloid and (99m)Tc mebrofenin hepatobiliary functional liver imaging in normal and diabetic rats.	To use (99m)Tc sulfur colloid ((99m)Tc-SC) and (99m)Tc mebrofenin ((99m)Tc-BrIDA) to study liver function in normal and diabetic rats.
The TCN/AACN 2010 "salary survey": professional practices, beliefs, and incomes of U.S. neuropsychologists.	Doctoral-level members of the American Academy of Clinical Neuropsychology, Division 40 (Clinical Neuropsychology) of the American Psychological Association, and the National Academy of Neuropsychology, and other neuropsychologists, were invited to participate in a web-based survey in early 2010. The sample of respondents was 56% larger than a prior related income and practice survey in 2005. The substantial proportional change in gender taking place in the field has continued, with 7 of 10 post-doctoral residents being women and, for the first time ever, more than half of the total sample of respondents being women. Whereas the median age of APA members has been over 50 since the early 1990s, the current median age of clinical neuropsychologists remains at 47 and has remained essentially unchanged since 1989, indicating substantial entrance of young psychologists into the field. The Houston Conference training model has influenced the vast majority of residency training sites, and is endorsed as compatible with prior training by two-thirds of all respondents. Testing assistant usage remains commonplace, and is much more common in institutions. The "flexible battery" approach has again increased in popularity and predominates, whereas endorsement of the "fixed/standardized battery" approach has continued to decline. The vast majority of clinical neuropsychologists work full time. Average length of time reported for evaluations increased significantly from 2005, which does not appear to be explained by changes in common referral sources or common diagnostic conditions being evaluated. The most common factors affecting evaluation length were identified, with the top three being goal of evaluation, stamina/health of examinee, and age of examinee. Pediatric specialists are more likely than others to work part time, more likely to be women, more likely to work in institutions, and report lower incomes than respondents whose professional identity is purely adult or a combination of adult and pediatric. Incomes once again vary considerably by years of clinical practice, work setting, amount of forensic practice, state, and region of country. Job satisfaction has little relationship to income and is comparable across most variables (e.g., work setting, professional identity, amount of forensic activity), whereas income satisfaction has a stronger relationship to actual income, and income satisfaction and job satisfaction are moderately correlated. Job satisfaction of neuropsychologists in general is higher than reported for other US jobs. Fewer than 5% of respondents are considering changing job position. As was true in the 2005 survey, a substantial majority of respondents reported increased incomes over the last 5 years. Actual reported income values were meaningfully higher than in 2005 across general work settings and professional identities, and were also higher for entry-level positions. Numerous breakdowns related to income and professional activities are provided.
Neuropsychological and behavioral outcomes of extremely low birth weight at age three.	Preterm (PT) birth is an established risk factor for high mortality and morbidity rates. Infants and school-aged children have been well-studied, but few have described neuropsychological and behavioral outcomes at preschool age. We compared a 2004-2006 preterm/extremely low birth weight (ELBW) cohort (PT/ELBW; N = 60) born ≤ 33 weeks gestation and <1,000 g with term-born participants (N = 90) at age 3. PT/ELBW subgroups (<26 weeks; 26-33 weeks) performed more poorly than the term-born group on verbal, nonverbal, fine motor, visual-motor, visual attention, noun fluency, early number concepts, and functional communication measures prior to age correction; PT/ELBW children born <26 weeks additionally performed more poorly on action-verb fluency. Those born 26-33 weeks had executive and adaptive deficits on parental behavioral report. Age correction significantly improved preterm scores without masking relative verbal, nonverbal, motor, and behavioral weaknesses that may require early intervention. In conclusion, subtle delays in emergent neuropsychological and behavioral functions are measurable at age 3, and neurobiological immaturity remains a prepotent influence on outcome in the preschool years. Further study should enhance our understanding of the trajectory of brain development and the limits of neuroplasticity in these highly at-risk children.
Brain volumes in adolescents with very low birth weight: effects on brain structure and associations with neuropsychological outcomes.	The aims of this study were to examine abnormalities in brain structure in adolescents and young adults with very low birth weight (VLBW, <1,500 g) and associations of these abnormalities with neuropsychological outcomes. The sample of 108 participants from 14 to 19 years of age included 37 participants with <750 g birth weight, 35 with 750-1,499 g birth weight, and 36 normal birth weight (NBW) controls. One or both of the VLBW groups had smaller brain volumes, larger lateral ventricles, and a small surface area of the corpus callosum than the NBW controls. Group differences in white matter (WM) structures, subcortical gray matter (GM), and the cerebellum were found even when controlling for whole brain volume (WBV), and were most pronounced in the <750 g group. WM reductions in the two VLBW groups relative to NBW controls were associated with more pervasive cognitive deficits than were reductions in subcortical GM. Associations of cognitive outcomes with structural abnormalities remained when controlling for WBV or neonatal risks. The results are consistent with previous findings of residual brain abnormalities in adolescents and young adults with VLBW and provide new information on their cognitive correlates.
Validity and reliability of the Purdue Pegboard Test in carpal tunnel syndrome.	There is a paucity of validated tests to quantify hand function impairment due to carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). The aim of this study was to test the validity and reliability of the Purdue Pegboard Test (PPT) in CTS patients. We compared 190 CTS patients with 122 healthy, age-matched controls. CTS severity was determined based on electrophysiologic parameters and the Levine Self-Assessment Questionnaire. The time to complete the PPT and the test-retest reliability were tested. The test-retest reliability was high with an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.91. Compared to healthy controls, the CTS patients were significantly slower. Although the functional performance generally declined with increasing severity of electrophysiologic abnormalities, the correlation between hand function decline and symptom severity in the young and middle-aged groups was low. We conclude that the PPT is a valid and reliable tool to quantify functional impairment caused by CTS. It can be a useful outcome measure in young and middle-aged patients.
Detection of fibrillations using muscle ultrasound: diagnostic accuracy and identification of pitfalls.	We prospectively investigated the diagnostic accuracy and potential pitfalls of dynamic muscle ultrasound in the detection of fibrillations. The presence of fibrillations on both electromyography (EMG) and ultrasound was evaluated in 102 muscles of 38 patients with suspected fibrillation potentials, based on history and physical examination. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated. False-positive and false-negative results are described to identify pitfalls. Ultrasound detected fibrillations with a sensitivity of 45% and a specificity of 66%. Specificity improved to 85% when measurements were evaluated online. Proximal muscles showed higher sensitivities (63%) than distal muscles (33%). Ultrasound currently has a poor sensitivity and moderate specificity for detecting fibrillations. Several pitfalls were identified that, when avoided, could help improve diagnostic accuracy. Ensuring a distal limb temperature of at least 34°C and identifying external movement artifacts as well as voluntary contractions can improve efficacy and open the way for diagnostic application of this technique.
Effects of resistance training on force steadiness and common drive.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of an 8-week resistance training program on force steadiness and common drive for the vastus lateralis muscle. Eight untrained men performed a resistance training program. Before the program and at the end of each week, the subjects performed a trapezoid isometric muscle action of the leg extensors, and bipolar surface electromyographic signals were recorded from the vastus lateralis. The signals were decomposed into action potential trains that were cross-correlated to measure common drive. Force steadiness was quantified as the standard deviation of force during the constant-force portion of the trapezoid muscle action. The training program did not consistently affect force steadiness or common drive for any of the subjects. Although future studies are needed with different muscles and training programs, changes in the overall motor control scheme are not likely with resistance training.
Plyometric training as an intervention to correct altered neuromotor control during running after cycling in triathletes: a preliminary randomised controlled trial.	Altered neuromotor control during running after cycling has been associated with exercise-related leg pain and may have performance implications for triathletes.
Kinematics during lower extremity functional screening tests--are they reliable and related to jogging?	To investigate the within-day and between-day reliability of 3D lower extremity kinematics during five lower extremity functional screening tests and to assess the association between these kinematics and those recorded during jogging.
A comparison in the muscle activity of the abductor hallucis and the medial longitudinal arch angle during toe curl and short foot exercises.	To compare the muscle activity of the abductor hallucis (AbdH) and the medial longitudinal arch (MLA) angle during toe curl (TC) and short foot (SF) exercises while sitting or in one-leg standing position.
Comparison of direct planimetry of mitral valve regurgitation orifice area by three-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography to effective regurgitant orifice area obtained by proximal flow convergence method and vena contracta area determined by color Doppler echocardiography.	Direct measurement of anatomic regurgitant orifice area (AROA) by 3-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography was evaluated for analysis of mitral regurgitation (MR) severity. In 72 patients (age 70.6 ± 13.3 years, 37 men) with mild to severe MR, 3-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography and transthoracic color Doppler echocardiography were performed to determine AROA by direct planimetry, effective regurgitant orifice area (EROA) by proximal convergence method, and vena contracta area (VCA) by 2-dimensional color Doppler echocardiography. AROA was measured with commercially available software (QLAB, Philips Medical Systems, Andover, Massachusetts) after adjusting the first and second planes to reveal the smallest orifice in the third plane where planimetry could take place. AROA was classified as circular or noncircular by calculating the ratio of the medial-lateral distance above the anterior-posterior distance (≤1.5 compared to >1.5). AROA determined by direct planimetry was 0.30 ± 0.20 cm², EROA determined by proximal convergence method was 0.30 ± 0.20 cm², and VCA was 0.33 ± 0.23 cm². Correlation between AROA and EROA (r = 0.96, SEE 0.058 cm²) and between AROA and VCA (r = 0.89, SEE 0.105 cm²) was high considering all patients. In patients with a circular regurgitation orifice area (n = 14) the correlation between AROA and EROA was better (r = 0.99, SEE 0.036 cm²) compared to patients with noncircular regurgitation orifice area (n = 58, r = 0.94, SEE 0.061 cm²). Correlation between AROA and EROA was higher in an EROA ≥0.2 cm² (r = 0.95) than in an EROA <0.2 cm² (r = 0.60). In conclusion, direct measurement of MR AROA correlates well with EROA by proximal convergence method and VCA. Agreement between methods is better for patients with a circular regurgitation orifice area than in patients with a noncircular regurgitation orifice area.
Relative urban ecosystem health assessment: a method integrating comprehensive evaluation and detailed analysis.	Regarding the basic roles of urban ecosystem health assessment (i.e., discovering the comprehensive health status, and diagnosing the limiting factors of urban ecosystems), the general framework integrating comprehensive evaluation and detailed analysis is established, from both bottom-up and top-down directions. Emergy-based health indicators are established to reflect the urban ecosystem health status from a biophysical viewpoint. Considering the intrinsic uncertainty and relativity of urban ecosystem health, set pair analysis is combined with the emergy-based indicators to fill the general framework and evaluate the relative health level of urban ecosystems. These techniques are favorable for understanding the overall urban ecosystem health status and confirming the limiting factors of concerned urban ecosystems from biophysical perspective. Moreover, clustering analysis is applied by combining the health status with spatial geographical conditions. Choosing 26 typical Chinese cities in 2005, relative comprehensive urban ecosystem health levels were evaluated. The higher health levels of Xiamen, Qingdao, Shenzhen, and Zhuhai are in particular contrast to those of Wuhan, Beijing, Yinchuan, and Harbin, which are relatively poor. In addition, the conditions of each factor and related indicators are investigated through set pair analysis, from which the critical limiting factors of Beijing are confirmed. According to clustering analysis results, the urban ecosystems studied are divided into four groups. It is concluded that the proposed framework of urban ecosystem health assessment, which integrates comprehensive evaluation and detailed analysis and is fulfilled by emergy synthesis and set pair analysis, can serve as a useful tool to conduct diagnosis of urban ecosystem health.
Individual working memory capacity is uniquely correlated with feature-based attention when combined with spatial attention.	A growing literature suggests that working memory and attention are closely related constructs. Both involve the selection of task-relevant information, and both are characterized by capacity limits. Furthermore, studies using a variety of methodological approaches have demonstrated convergent working memory and attention-related processing at the individual, neural and behavioral level. Given the varieties of both constructs, the specific kinds of attention and WM must be considered. We find that individuals' working memory capacity (WMC) uniquely interacts with feature-based attention when combined with spatial attention in a cuing paradigm (Posner, 1980). Our findings suggest a positive correlation between WM and feature-based attention only within the spotlight of spatial attention. This finding lends support to the controlled attention view of working memory by demonstrating that integrated feature-based expectancies are uniquely correlated with individual performance on a working memory task.
Preceptorship placements can be a burden for students.	Fourth year baccalaureate nursing students were surveyed to determine their perceptions of the preceptorship experience. Results indicated that students highly valued and enjoyed their preceptorship experiences. However, issues related to choice, finances, and role of the administration were identified. There is a need (a) to reexamine the organization and coordination of placements, (b) to understand the potential personal and financial burden on students during placements, and (c) to develop mechanisms to reduce obstacles for students that may compromise successful and meaningful preceptorship placements.
Turnover intention among new nurses: a generational perspective.	With the current nursing shortage, it is crucial to understand the aspects of the nursing work environment that are related to turnover in new generation nurses. The Practice Environment Scale of the Nursing Work Index was administered to new nurses in Quebec from different generations to determine what domains of the work environment were related to turnover intention. Results can help nurses in leadership and development positions target interventions to retain new graduates.
Photon correlation holography.	Unconventional holography called photon correlation holography is proposed and experimentally demonstrated. Using photon correlation, i.e. intensity correlation or fourth order correlation of optical field, a 3-D image of the object recorded in a hologram is reconstructed stochastically with illumination through a random phase screen. Two different schemes for realizing photon correlation holography are examined by numerical simulations, and the experiment was performed for one of the reconstruction schemes suitable for the experimental proof of the principle. The technique of photon correlation holography provides a new insight into how the information is embedded in the spatial as well as temporal correlation of photons in the stochastic pseudo thermal light.
Statistics for the clinician: diagnostic questionnaires.	The goal of this column is to help working clinicians understand the statistical calculations involved in interpreting the results of diagnostic questionnaires. Using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 as an example, the author explains how to determine the most appropriate cutoffs to choose, depending on the population involved, the probabilities of error (a and {), and the expected losses associated with each kind of error in the context in which the test is being administered. (Journal of Psychiatric Practice. 2011;17:57-60).
Correlation between MR imaging and discography with provocative concordant pain in patients with low back pain.	this study aimed to correlate magnetic resonance (MR) ﬁndings and discography with pain response at provocative discography in patients with low back pain.
Incidence of sleep-disordered breathing in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	The authors investigated the prevalence of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) together with its clinical correlations in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). A total of 113 consecutive patients including 63 patients with HCM (40 men; mean age, 59.5±13.0 years; New York Heart Association class, 2.0±0.9) underwent cardiorespiratory polygraphy in addition to their clinical work-up including echocardiography. Patients with an apnea-hypopnea-index (AHI) ≥5/h were considered to have SDB. If thoracic and abdominal inspiration efforts were documented, SDB was considered to be obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), otherwise SDB was considered to be central sleep apnea (CSA). The age- and sex-matched control group of 50 patients had exclusion of coronary artery disease by angiography, and normal left ventricular (ejection fraction ≥55%) and valvular function. SDB was diagnosed in 52 patients (82.5% vs 72% in the control group; P =not significant) with a mean AHI of 23.0±17.8/h. Severity of SDB was higher in patients with HCM than in the control group (AHI 12.2±7.6/h; P =.003). OSA was documented in 39 patients (AHI 21.2±16.5/h) and CSA in 13 (AHI 28.4±20.9/h). The severity of SDB correlated with New York Heart Association functional class (η=0.9, η(2) =0.811) and with left ventricular end-diastolic (r=0.6, P <.01) and left atrial (r=0.4, P <.01) diameter. No correlations were found between SDB and other clinical or echocardiographic parameters. SDB is common in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, with a predominance of OSA and correlations with markers of left ventricular function.
The meaningful use of the review of symptoms in heart failure patients.	Review of symptoms (ROS) is a time-honored tradition in medicine and has proved to be a case-finding maneuver in general medicine patients. The authors sought to investigate the prevalence of noncardiovascular symptoms in heart failure clinics by assessment of the ROS. Of the collected ROS, shortness of breath (SOB) represented the most frequent recalled symptom (8.6%), whereas fatigue (5.3%) was the most common noncardiac symptom. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that New York Heart Association class could, at least in part, explain the occurrence of SOB (R(2) =.4; P<.05). Importantly, alarm symptoms such as hemoptysis and bloody stools were present in <1% of the cohort. ROS evaluation remains a valuable tool for diagnostics; however, symptom-focused questionnaires should be routinely considered as a time-efficient strategy in the ambulatory specialty clinic.
Common iliac vein stenosis and risk of symptomatic pulmonary embolism: an inverse correlation.	To test the hypothesis that a common iliac vein (CIV) stenosis may impair embolization of a large deep venous thrombosis (DVT) to the lungs, decreasing the incidence of a symptomatic pulmonary embolism (PE).
Intact cognition in depressed elderly veterans providing adequate effort.	Geriatric depression has been associated with cognitive impairments, but whether suboptimal effort contributes to these deficits is unknown. This study investigated differences in cognitive functioning between depressed and nondepressed elderly veterans, before and after excluding patients who provided suboptimal effort on testing at a memory disorders clinic. Patients diagnosed with a depressive disorder performed more poorly than nondepressed patients on almost all Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) indices, but these differences became nonstatistically significant after excluding patients who provided suboptimal effort. However, when patients were classified as normal, mildly, or severely depressed based on Geriatric Depression Scale scores, these groups were not significantly different on RBANS indices, regardless of whether patients who provided suboptimal effort were included or excluded from analyses. The findings suggest that cognitive deficits in depression reported in previous research may be attributable to suboptimal effort and that identifying depression via clinical diagnosis or psychometric data may affect this trend.
Molecular MRI approaches to the detection of CNS inflammation.	Inflammation is a key component of many neurological diseases, yet our understanding of the contribution of these processes to tissue damage remains poor. For many such diseases, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become the method of choice for clinical diagnosis. However, many of the MRI parameters that enable disease detection, such as passive contrast enhancement across a compromised blood-brain barrier, are weighted towards late-stage disease. Moreover, whilst these methods may report on disease severity, they are not able to provide information on either disease activity or the underlying molecular processes. There is a need, therefore, to develop methods that enable earlier disease detection, potentially long before clinical symptoms become apparent, together with identification of specific molecular processes that may guide specific therapy. This chapter describes the methodology for the synthesis and validation of two novel, functional MRI-detectable probes, based on microparticles of iron oxide (MPIO), which target endothelial adhesion molecules. These contrast agents enable the detection of acute brain inflammation in vivo, at a time when pathology is undetectable by conventional MRI. Such molecular MRI methods are opening new vistas for the acute diagnosis of CNS disease, together with the possibility for individually tailored therapy and earlier, more sensitive assessment of the efficacy of novel therapies.
MRI of transplanted neural stem cells.	Stem cell-based therapy has the potential to improve the prospect of patients suffering from many untreatable diseases. Applications of stem cells for therapy of neurological conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, or stroke, are particularly appealing as damage of the central nervous system is irreversible and the efficacy of conventional therapy is limited. Despite a broad interest among researchers and clinicians, progress in this field has been slow due to the remarkable complexity of the brain, which makes the task of repairing damaged tissue with stem cells extremely challenging. Making advances can be expedited by novel technologies that can monitor transplanted cells non-invasively. In vivo cellular imaging allows for the repetitive, real-time observation of targeted cells over the course of treatment without the need for invasive biopsies. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an excellent non-invasive cellular imaging modality as it has superior resolution, is widely used clinically, and has no radiation. This technique currently requires magnetic labeling of cells using superparamagnetic iron oxide particles (SPIOs) and transfection agents. In this chapter, methods for cellular labeling with SPIOs, transplantation of stem cells into the mouse brain, and MR imaging of the cells both in vivo and postmortem will be described. Additional histological and immunohistochemical procedures for analysis of the transplanted cells and the diseased brain environment are also provided.
Evaluation of urine CCA assays for detection of Schistosoma mansoni infection in Western Kenya.	Although accurate assessment of the prevalence of Schistosoma mansoni is important for the design and evaluation of control programs, the most widely used tools for diagnosis are limited by suboptimal sensitivity, slow turn-around-time, or inability to distinguish current from former infections. Recently, two tests that detect circulating cathodic antigen (CCA) in urine of patients with schistosomiasis became commercially available. As part of a larger study on schistosomiasis prevalence in young children, we evaluated the performance and diagnostic accuracy of these tests--the carbon test strip designed for use in the laboratory and the cassette format test intended for field use. In comparison to 6 Kato-Katz exams, the carbon and cassette CCA tests had sensitivities of 88.4% and 94.2% and specificities of 70.9% and 59.4%, respectively. However, because of the known limitations of the Kato-Katz assay, we also utilized latent class analysis (LCA) incorporating the CCA, Kato-Katz, and schistosome-specific antibody results to determine their sensitivities and specificities. The laboratory-based CCA test had a sensitivity of 91.7% and a specificity of 89.4% by LCA while the cassette test had a sensitivity of 96.3% and a specificity of 74.7%. The intensity of the reaction in both urine CCA tests reflected stool egg burden and their performance was not affected by the presence of soil transmitted helminth infections. Our results suggest that urine-based assays for CCA may be valuable in screening for S. mansoni infections.
A new index to optimally design and compare continuous glucose monitoring glucose prediction algorithms.	Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) data can be exploited to prevent hypo-/hyperglycemic events in real time by forecasting future glucose levels. In the last few years, several glucose prediction algorithms have been proposed, but how to compare them (e.g., methods based on polynomial rather than autoregressive time-series models) and even how to determine the optimal parameter set for a given method (e.g., prediction horizon and forgetting) are open problems.
Evaluation of pharmacokinetic parameters and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibition following single doses of sitagliptin in healthy, young Japanese males.	Sitagliptin is a selective inhibitor of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) used to treat type 2 diabetes. The present aim was to evaluate pharmacokinetic (PK), pharmacodynamic (PD) and safety characteristics of sitagliptin following single doses in healthy, young Japanese males.
Dietary acrylamide and pancreatic cancer risk in an Italian case--control study.	Information on the relation between acrylamide exposure and risk of pancreatic cancer is scanty and inconsistent.
The King-Devick test as a determinant of head trauma and concussion in boxers and MMA fighters.	Sports-related concussion has received increasing attention as a cause of short- and long-term neurologic symptoms among athletes. The King-Devick (K-D) test is based on measurement of the speed of rapid number naming (reading aloud single-digit numbers from 3 test cards), and captures impairment of eye movements, attention, language, and other correlates of suboptimal brain function. We investigated the K-D test as a potential rapid sideline screening for concussion in a cohort of boxers and mixed martial arts fighters.
Semantic association investigated with functional MRI and independent component analysis.	Semantic association, an essential element of human language, enables discourse and inference. Neuroimaging studies have revealed localization and lateralization of semantic circuitry, making substantial contributions to cognitive neuroscience. However, because of methodological limitations, these investigations have only identified individual functional components rather than capturing the behavior of the entire network. To overcome these limitations, we have implemented group independent component analysis (ICA) to investigate the cognitive modules used by healthy adults performing the fMRI semantic decision task. When compared with the results of a standard general linear modeling (GLM) analysis, ICA detected several additional brain regions subserving semantic decision. Eight task-related group ICA maps were identified, including left inferior frontal gyrus (BA44/45), middle posterior temporal gyrus (BA39/22), angular gyrus/inferior parietal lobule (BA39/40), posterior cingulate (BA30), bilateral lingual gyrus (BA18/23), inferior frontal gyrus (L>R, BA47), hippocampus with parahippocampal gyrus (L>R, BA35/36), and anterior cingulate (BA32/24). Although most of the components were represented bilaterally, we found a single, highly left-lateralized component that included the inferior frontal gyrus and the medial and superior temporal gyri, the angular and supramarginal gyri, and the inferior parietal cortex. The presence of these spatially independent ICA components implies functional connectivity and can be equated with their modularity. These results are analyzed and presented in the framework of a biologically plausible theoretical model in preparation for similar analyses in patients with right- or left-hemispheric epilepsies.
Parkinson's disease sleep scale--validation of the revised version PDSS-2.	The previous Parkinson's disease sleep scale (PDSS) is a 15-item visual analogue scale that assesses the profile of nocturnal disturbances in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients.
Postural sway approaches center of mass stability limits in Parkinson's disease.	Although Parkinson's disease (PD) is a well recognised risk factor for falls, how this disease and its therapy affect postural stability and leaning balance remains unclear. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of PD and levodopa on postural sway and leaning balance.
Applications of neural networks in training science.	Training science views itself as an integrated and applied science, developing practical measures founded on scientific method. Therefore, it demands consideration of a wide spectrum of approaches and methods. Especially in the field of competitive sports, research questions are usually located in complex environments, so that mainly field studies are drawn upon to obtain broad external validity. Here, the interrelations between different variables or variable sets are mostly of a nonlinear character. In these cases, methods like neural networks, e.g., the pattern recognizing methods of Self-Organizing Kohonen Feature Maps or similar instruments to identify interactions might be successfully applied to analyze data. Following on from a classification of data analysis methods in training-science research, the aim of the contribution is to give examples of varied sports in which network approaches can be effectually used in training science. First, two examples are given in which neural networks are employed for pattern recognition. While one investigation deals with the detection of sporting talent in swimming, the other is located in game sports research, identifying tactical patterns in team handball. The third and last example shows how an artificial neural network can be used to predict competitive performance in swimming.
Total cholesterol content of erythrocyte membranes in acute coronary syndrome: correlation with apolipoprotein A-I and lipoprotein (a).	Recent studies reported that total cholesterol erythrocyte membrane (CEM) levels were associated with the presence of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). However, little is known about the mechanisms of CEM elevation in these patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the association between CEM and the circulating lipid profile to delineate the possible mechanisms of CEM elevation in patients with ACS.
Recommendations for describing statistical studies and results in general readership science and engineering journals.	This paper recommends how authors of statistical studies can communicate to general audiences fully, clearly, and comfortably. The studies may use statistical methods to explore issues in science, engineering, and society or they may address issues in statistics specifically. In either case, readers without explicit statistical training should have no problem understanding the issues, the methods, or the results at a non-technical level. The arguments for those results should be clear, logical, and persuasive. This paper also provides advice for editors of general journals on selecting high quality statistical articles without the need for exceptional work or expense. Finally, readers are also advised to watch out for some common errors or misuses of statistics that can be detected without a technical statistical background.
Preoperative circulating C-reactive protein levels predict pathological aggressiveness in oral squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective clinical study.	Previous studies have demonstrated a relationship between elevated serum C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and shorter survival in cancer patients. Few studies, however, have investigated the role of serum CRP levels in oral squamous cell carcinoma. The present study was conducted to analyze the relationship between preoperative CRP levels, clinicopathologic factors, and prognosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma patients.
A lead study on oxidative stress-mediated dehydroepiandrosterone formation in serum: the biochemical basis for a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, yet irreversible, neurodegenerative disease for which there are limited means for its ante-mortem diagnosis. We previously identified a brain- and cell-specific oxidative stress-mediated mechanism for dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) biosynthesis present in rat, bovine, and human brain, independent of the cytochrome P450 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (CYP17) enzyme activity found in the periphery. This alternative pathway is induced by pro-oxidant agents, such as Fe2+ and amyloid-β peptide. Using brain tissue specimens from control and AD patients we subsequently provided evidence that DHEA is formed in the AD brain by the oxidative stress-mediated metabolism of an unidentified precursor, thus depleting the levels of the precursor present in the blood stream. Here, we tested for the presence of this DHEA precursor in human serum using a simple Fe2+-based reaction and determined the amounts of DHEA formed. A total of 86 subjects were included in this study: 19 male and 20 female AD patients; 18 male and 22 female age-matched controls; and 4 men and 3 women with mild cognitive impairment. Serum oxidation resulted in a dramatic increase of DHEA level in control patients, whereas only a moderate or no increase was observed in the AD patients. The DHEA variation after oxidation correlated with the patients' cognitive and mental status. These results suggest that the comparison of DHEA levels in patient serum before and after oxidation could provide a useful tool to diagnose AD.
Echocardiographic indices of diastolic function relate to functional capacity and quality of life in ambulatory men with atrial fibrillation.	We sought to explore the reliability of echocardiographic parameters of diastolic function and determine their relationship with functional capacity (New York Heart Association [NYHA] class and 6-minute walk test [6MWT]) and the domains of a health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) questionnaire (Veterans RAND 36-Item Health Survey) in a cohort of ambulatory patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).
Peak systolic mitral annulus velocity reflects the status of ventricular-arterial coupling-theoretical and experimental analyses.	Peak systolic mitral annular velocity (S(m)) measured by tissue Doppler echocardiography has been recognized as an independent predictor of mortality in patients with heart failure and in the general population. However, the mechanical determinants of S(m) remain poorly defined.
The malingering factor.	The influence of malingering and suboptimal performance on neuropsychological tests has become a major interest of clinical neuropsychologists. Methods to detect malingering have focused on specialized tests or embedded patterns associated with malingering present in the conventional neuropsychology tests. There are two stages to the study of their validity. The first stage involves whether the method can discriminate malingering subjects from those who are not malingering. In the second stage, they must be examined for their relationship to the conventional tests used to establish impairment and disability. Constantinou, Bauer, Ashendorf, Fisher, and McCaffrey (2005. Is poor performance on recognition memory effort measures indicative of generalized poor performance on neuropsychological tests? Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology, 20, 191-198.) conducted the only study in which correlations are presented between a commonly used symptom validity test, the Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM) and the subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R). A factor analysis was conducted using these correlations. It revealed a clear malingering factor that explained significant variance in the TOMM and the WAIS-R subtests. The relationship of malingering with cognitive tests is complex: some tests are sensitive to malingering and others are not. Factor analysis can summarize the magnitude of variance associated with each test and reveal the patterns of inter-relationships between malingering and clinical tests. The analysis also suggested that malingering assessment methods could be improved by the addition of timing the responses.
Individual differences in testosterone and corticosterone levels in relation to early postnatal development in the rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus.	Many aspects of an animal's early development contribute to the emergence of individual differences in physiology. Here we asked whether litter size, birth mass, suckling success and postnatal growth were predictors of individual differences in testosterone (T) and corticosterone (CORT) levels in neonatal domestic rabbits. Serum concentrations of both hormones, which we measured on postnatal day 8, were significantly and positively correlated with pup growth and milk intake. Litter size and birth mass were not significantly correlated with levels of T and CORT, although both parameters were indirectly associated with the levels of these hormones via their effects on milk intake and pup growth. Our results highlight the importance of naturally occurring features of the postnatal environment in shaping individual differences in T and CORT levels during early life.
Characterization of the basal core promoter and precore regions in anti-HBe-positive inactive carriers of hepatitis B virus.	The study of hepatitis B virus (HBV) genomic heterogeneity has become a major issue in investigations aimed at understanding the relationship between HBV mutants and the wide spectrum of clinical and pathological conditions associated with HBV infection. Although most chronically infected HBV patients are inactive carriers, several virological aspects of this state remain unclear.
Pramipexole versus ropinirole: polysomnographic acute effects in restless legs syndrome.	Pramipexole and ropinirole have become the first-line treatment for restless legs syndrome. The aim of this study was to perform the first direct comparison between these two molecules in restless legs syndrome.
Hypodipsia discriminates progressive supranuclear palsy from other parkinsonian syndromes.	The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the sensation of thirst differs between patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy with predominant parkinsonism (MSA-P), and Parkinson's disease (PD).
Relationship between organisational structure and worksite health management in the information technology and communications sector]	Worksite health management (WHM) can positively influence employee health and performance. However, it has not yet been comprehensively implemented in companies. This study aims to identify the role of organisational structures in the implementation of WHM.
Reliability and validity of the Toronto Structured Interview for Alexithymia in a mixed clinical and nonclinical sample from Italy.	The reliability and validity of the Toronto Structured Interview for Alexithymia (TSIA) have been demonstrated in previous studies with English-speaking community and psychiatric samples and a German-speaking psychiatric sample. The aim of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the TSIA in a mixed clinical and nonclinical sample from Italy. The original English version of the TSIA was translated into Italian and administered, along with the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), to 80 healthy subjects, 69 medical outpatients, and 62 psychiatric outpatients. Eighty-one videotaped interviews were used for assessing the interrater reliability. Confirmatory factor analysis supported the hierarchical, four-factor structure of the TSIA obtained in previous studies, with four lower-order factors nested within two higher-order latent factors. The TSIA also demonstrated internal and interrater reliability, and concurrent validity with the TAS-20. The results support the use of the TSIA to assess alexithymia especially when a multimethod approach to measurement is possible.
Factor analysis of responses to thermal, electrical, and mechanical painful stimuli supports the importance of multi-modal pain assessment.	During the last decade, a multi-modal approach has been established in human experimental pain research for assessing pain thresholds and responses to various experimental pain modalities. Studies have concluded that differences in responses to pain stimuli are mainly related to variation between individuals rather than variation in response to different stimulus modalities. In a factor analysis of 272 consecutive volunteers (137 men and 135 women) who underwent tests with different experimental pain modalities, it was determined whether responses to different pain modalities represent distinct individual uncorrelated dimensions of pain perception. Volunteers underwent single painful electrical stimulation, repeated painful electrical stimulation (temporal summation), test for reflex receptive field, pressure pain stimulation, heat pain stimulation, cold pain stimulation, and a cold pressor test (ice water test). Five distinct factors were found representing responses to 5 distinct experimental pain modalities: pressure, heat, cold, electrical stimulation, and reflex-receptive fields. Each of the factors explained approximately 8% to 35% of the observed variance, and the 5 factors cumulatively explained 94% of the variance. The correlation between the 5 factors was near null (median ρ=0.00, range -0.03 to 0.05), with 95% confidence intervals for pairwise correlations between 2 factors excluding any relevant correlation. Results were almost similar for analyses stratified according to gender and age. Responses to different experimental pain modalities represent different specific dimensions and should be assessed in combination in future pharmacological and clinical studies to represent the complexity of nociception and pain experience.
Correlation between acoustic rhinometry and visual analogue scale in children with no nasal symptoms: a prospective cohort study.	Acoustic rhinometry is an objective tool to evaluate nasal obstruction. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of visual analogue scale (VAS) as a subjective tool for nasal obstruction and the correlation between acoustic rhinometry and VAS in children with no nasal symptoms.
Extra-corporeal pulsed-activated therapy ("EPAT" sound wave) for Achilles tendinopathy: a prospective study.	Achilles tendinopathy is common and extracorporeal shockwaves have become a popular treatment for this condition, even though previous research has not provided conclusive results regarding its efficacy in cases of Achilles tendinopathy. Our aim was to evaluate 3 weekly shockwave treatments in patients with Achilles tendinopathy, as quantified by the Roles and Maudsley score. A total of 74 tendons in 60 patients were assessed at baseline and at least 1 year posttreatment, including 32 (43.24%) paratendinoses, 23 (31.08%) proximal tendinoses, and 19 (25.68%) insertional tendinoses. The mean age of the participants was 48.6 ± 12.94 years, and patients with paratendinosis (41.44 ± 14.01 years) were statistically significantly younger than those with proximal (53 ± 8.9 years) and insertional (54.26 ± 9.74 years) tendinopathy, and these differences were statistically significant (P = .0012 and P = .0063, respectively). Overall, 58 (78.38%) tendons improved by at least 1 year posttreatment, including 75% in the paratendinosis, 78.26% in the proximal tendinosis, and 84.21% in the insertional tendinosis groups, and no adverse effects were observed. The Roles and Maudsley score improved from 3.22 ± 0.55 to 1.84 ± 1.05 (P < .0001) in the paratendinosis group, 3.39 ± 0.5 to 1.57 ± 0.66 (P < .0001) in the proximal tendinopathy group, and 3.32 ± 0.58 to 1.47 ± 0.7 (P = .0001) in the insertional tendinopathy group. Based on these results, we believe that shockwave therapy serves as a safe, viable, and effective option for the treatment of Achilles tendinopathy.
Modeling the consistency of hypoglycemic symptoms: high variability in diabetes.	The aim of the present study was to examine symptoms of hypoglycemia, to develop a method to quantify individual differences in the consistency of symptom reporting, and to investigate which factors affect these differences.
Performance evaluation of the COBAS/TaqMan HIV-1 v2.0 in HIV-1 positive patients with low viral load: a comparative study.	HIV-1 viral load determination is a crucial step for monitoring the efficacy of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and predicts disease progression. Real-time PCR based assays are available for monitoring the viral load. They differ in sensitivity, genomic target region and dynamic range. In this study, the performance of the Roche Cobas Taqman HIV-1 v2.0 was evaluated on plasma samples from HIV-1 positive patients in parallel with the Abbott RealTime HIV-1 assay in a routine diagnostic setting. Overall, there was a good agreement between the two assays. However, some samples detected by the Abbott RealTime HIV-1 assay but below the limit of quantitation of the assay were found negative result when tested with the Roche Cobas Taqman HIV-1 v2.0. It is conceivable that signal anomalies or background noise may affect the lower-end precision of the Abbott RealTime HIV-1 assay. Based on these results, it is concluded that it is not recommended to switch platform during longitudinal viral load monitoring of HIV-1 positive patients.
Evaluation of the efficiency of inpatient 24-hour VEEG combined with MRI in consecutive patients with newly diagnosed epilepsies.	A total of 128 patients were recruited into this study to evaluate the cost efficiency of 24-hour video electroencephalography (VEEG) combined with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in people with newly diagnosed epilepsies. The rate of neuroimaging abnormalities detected was 14.8% higher with MRI than with computed tomography (CT), whereas 25.7% more EEG abnormalities were detected with inpatient 24-hour VEEG than with outpatient EEG. In the partial seizure (PS) group, MRI combined with 24-hour VEEG revealed that 20 of 73 (27.4%) patients had local epileptogenic lesions, whereas CT with outpatient EEG revealed a rate of 10 in 73 (13.7%). With respect to the economic impact, 27.3% of the patients spent more than 17.8% of their annual household income for 24-hour VEEG and MRI. However, 82.7% of the patients spent less than that, and among these patients, only 16.4% spent less than 5.9% of their annual household income. Hence, we conclude that the combination of MRI and 24-hour VEEG as a compulsory tool should be popularized in less developed countries.
Clinicopathologic correlation of beclin-1 expression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.	Beclin-1 has emerged as an autophagy gene in a variety of human carcinomas. The aim of this study was to evaluate beclin-1 expression and to determine its prognostic significance in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA). We performed immunohistochemical staining for beclin-1 in 63 cases of PDA. We investigated whether beclin-1 expression correlated with clinicopathologic characteristics and patient outcomes. Beclin-1 expression was absent in normal pancreatic islet cells, acinar cells, and ductal epithelial cells. In contrast, in PDA, beclin-1 showed positive immunoreactivity in 14 of 63 (22.2%) PDA cases, while the remaining 49 (77.8%) PDA cases exhibited negative beclin-1 expression. We found significant associations between increased beclin-1 expression and the absence of lymphatic invasion (P = 0.032) and low rate of distant metastasis (P = 0.001). Univariate analysis of survival showed that the median distant metastasis-free survival of beclin-1-negative PDA patients (10 months) was significantly shorter than that of beclin-1-positive PDA patients (21 months; P = 0.031). Our results suggest that increased beclin-1 expression plays a role in the inhibition of PDA progression.
Taiwan version of the prospective and retrospective memory questionnaire: latent structure and normative data.	The Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PRMQ) has been reported to have acceptable reliability and a tripartite structure, including a general memory factor and specific Prospective and Retrospective Memory factors. The Taiwanese version of the PRMQ was examined in an adult sample (n = 269, age range: 19-95). The 11-item Taiwanese PRMQ demonstrated acceptable internal consistency (Cronbach's α = 0.82-0.90) as well as a tripartite structure with one general Episodic Memory factor and one specific Prospective Memory factor. There was no gender effect, but older adults reported better prospective memory performance, and individuals with a higher level of education rated less retrospective memory failure. Preliminary Taiwanese normative data are also presented.
The unreliability of the intermetatarsal angle in choosing a hallux abducto valgus surgical procedure.	Conventional thinking holds that high intermetatarsal and hallux abductus angles (>15° and >25°, respectively) are associated with a hypermobile first ray and require a Lapidus procedure to achieve satisfactory correction for the treatment of hallux valgus. However, normal first ray motion may be misinterpreted as hypermobility, and it is possible to take advantage of this motion to correct some portion of a large hallux abductovalgus deformity with distal procedures, such as the Austin or first metatarsophalangeal joint fusion. We retrospectively examined radiographs of 61 patients with first intermetatarsal and hallux abductus angles greater than 15° and greater than 25°, respectively, who had undergone hallux abductovalgus correction via Lapidus, Austin, or first metatarsophalangeal joint fusion. Preoperative and postoperative radiographic measurements of the intermetatarsal and hallux abductus angles were made. The results revealed no statistically significant differences in the amount of correction achieved by any of the 3 procedures in comparison with the others. We concluded that, given appropriate patient selection, an Austin or first MTPJ fusion could reliably correct large intermetatarsal and hallux abductus angles that, in the hands of many surgeons, are often treated by means of Lapidus arthrodesis.
Causal role of the prefrontal cortex in top-down modulation of visual processing and working memory.	Selective attention filters information to limit what is encoded and maintained in working memory. Although the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is central to both selective attention and working memory, the underlying neural processes that link these cognitive abilities remain elusive. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging to guide repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation with electroencephalographic recordings in humans, we perturbed PFC function at the inferior frontal junction in participants before they performed a selective-attention, delayed-recognition task. This resulted in diminished top-down modulation of activity in posterior cortex during early encoding stages, which predicted a subsequent decrement in working memory accuracy. Participants with stronger fronto-posterior functional connectivity displayed greater disruptive effects. Our data further suggests that broad alpha-band (7-14 Hz) phase coherence subserved this long-distance top-down modulation. These results suggest that top-down modulation mediated by the prefrontal cortex is a causal link between early attentional processes and subsequent memory performance.
Melatonin administration after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus: a new way to prevent or attenuate postlesion epilepsy?	The goal of this study was to verify the effects of treatment with melatonin and N-acetylserotonin on the pilocarpine-induced epilepsy model.
Burnout among hospital nurses in China.	The aim of this study was to examine the level of burnout and factors that contribute to burnout in hospital nurses in the People's Republic of China.
Relationship between stress coping and burnout in Japanese hospital nurses.	The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between stress coping and burnout in Japanese hospital nurses.
Default-mode and task-positive network activity in major depressive disorder: implications for adaptive and maladaptive rumination.	Major depressive disorder (MDD) has been associated reliably with ruminative responding; this kind of responding is composed of both maladaptive and adaptive components. Levels of activity in the default-mode network (DMN) relative to the task-positive network (TPN), as well as activity in structures that influence DMN and TPN functioning, may represent important neural substrates of maladaptive and adaptive rumination in MDD.
Automated dielectrophoretic characterization of Mycobacterium smegmatis.	We report the positive dielectrophoretic (pDEP) characterization of wild-type and ethambutol-treated Mycobacterium smegmatis populations via automated pDEP cell trapping experiments. The automated technique was validated by measurements of carboxylate-modified polystyrene microspheres and Escherichia coli . The characterization of M. smegmatis identifies a key frequency regime where the membrane-specific action of ethambutol leads to a change in the cellular dielectrophoretic response. This work represents the first such characterization of Mycobacteria and highlights the potential for DEP measurements to measure changes in mycobacterial membrane properties associated with chemical treatments or genetic mutation.
Inter- and intra-observer variability for assessment of the synergy between percutaneous coronary intervention with TAXUS and cardiac surgery (SYNTAX) score and association of the SYNTAX score with clinical outcome in patients undergoing unprotected left main stenting in the real world.	The Synergy Between Percutaneous Coronary Intervention With TAXUS and Cardiac Surgery (SYNTAX) score was proposed as a method to evaluate the complexity of coronary anatomy. However, the reproducibility of assessment for the SYNTAX score in unprotected left main coronary artery (ULMCA) disease has not yet been adequately evaluated. The purpose of this study is to assess inter- and intra-observer variability for the assessment of the SYNTAX score in patients undergoing ULMCA stenting in daily clinical practice.
Definitions of asthma exacerbations.	During the past decade exacerbations of asthma have increasingly been recognized a as primary outcome parameter in clinical research. However, comparison of results is hampered by the use of different definitions for asthma exacerbations in published reports. The purpose of this review is to describe the consequences of using different definitions and to propose possible solutions.
The influence of sexually explicit Internet material on sexual risk behavior: a comparison of adolescents and adults.	This study had three goals: first, to investigate whether sexually explicit Internet material (SEIM) affects sexual risk behavior; second, to study whether these effects differ between adolescents and adults; and third, to analyze, separately for adolescents and adults, whether gender and age moderate an influence of SEIM on sexual risk behavior. The authors conducted a 2-wave panel survey among nationally representative random samples of 1,445 Dutch adolescents and 833 Dutch adults. SEIM use increased sexual risk behavior among adults, but not among adolescents. More specifically, moderator analyses showed that SEIM use increased sexual risk behavior only among male adults, but not among female adults. In the adolescent sample, no moderating gender effect occurred. Neither among adolescents nor among adults did age moderate the effects. Our study shows that SEIM may influence outcomes related to people's sexual health. It also suggests that male adults may present a potential risk group for adverse effects of SEIM.
Global left atrial strain correlates with CHADS2 risk score in patients with atrial fibrillation.	The aim of this cross-sectional study was to explore the association between echocardiographic parameters and CHADS2 score in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (AF).
Hsp60 and heme oxygenase-1 (Hsp32) in acute myocardial infarction.	Heat shock proteins (Hsps) are produced in response to various stressors, including ischemia-reperfusion, and they can exit cells and reach the blood. In this pilot study, we determined serum levels of Hsp60 and heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1; also named Hsp32) in subjects with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) to assess their clinical significance and potential prognostic value. We also performed a bioinformatics analysis of the 2 molecules in search of structural clues on the mechanism of their release from cells. We studied 40 patients consecutively admitted for AMI (male:female patient ratio=20:20, mean age: 64 ± 13 years) and 40 matched controls. A blood sample was drawn for biochemical analyses within 24 h of symptoms onset, and Hsp60 and HO-1 concentrations were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). All patients were followed up for 6 months to register adverse post-AMI cardiovascular events. A multivariate analysis demonstrated that elevated Hsp60 (P=0.0361), creatine phosphokinase-muscle brain (CK-MB) (P=0.0446), and troponin (P=0.0490) were predictive of post-AMI adverse events. In contrast, increased HO-1 showed a significant association with less severity of coronary artery diseases (P=0.0223). These findings suggest that Hsp60 and HO-1 play distinct roles in the pathogenesis of AMI and subsequent AMI-related pathology. The possibility that these proteins differ in their roles and mechanisms of action in AMI and post-AMI pathology was supported also by the bioinformatics estimates of probability of their localization in various subcellular compartments. The results clear the way for subsequent investigation on the pathogenetic role and clinical significance of Hsp60 and HO-1 in AMI.
Clinical correlates of quality of life in Tourette syndrome.	Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder involving tics, which is frequently accompanied by comorbid obsessive compulsive (OCD) or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Individuals with TS often report poor quality of life (QoL) in comparison with the general population. This study investigated the clinical correlates of QoL in young people with TS using a self-report multidimensional QoL measure, and a range of clinical scales used to assess tic severity and the symptoms of anxiety, depression, OCD, ADHD and other emotional and behavioral symptoms. Symptoms of depression, OCD, and ADHD appeared to have a widespread negative impact on QoL, but poorer QoL was not associated with increased tic severity. Greater emotional and behavioral difficulties, including symptoms of OCD, were among the best predictors of poor QoL in young people with TS.
Correcting an analysis of variance for clustering.	A great deal of educational and social data arises from cluster sampling designs where clusters involve schools, classrooms, or communities. A mistake that is sometimes encountered in the analysis of such data is to ignore the effect of clustering and analyse the data as if it were based on a simple random sample. This typically leads to an overstatement of the precision of results and too liberal conclusions about precision and statistical significance of mean differences. This paper gives simple corrections to the test statistics that would be computed in an analysis of variance if clustering were (incorrectly) ignored. The corrections are multiplicative factors depending on the total sample size, the cluster size, and the intraclass correlation structure. For example, the corrected F statistic has Fisher's F distribution with reduced degrees of freedom. The corrected statistic reduces to the F statistic computed by ignoring clustering when the intraclass correlations are zero. It reduces to the F statistic computed using cluster means when the intraclass correlations are unity, and it is in between otherwise. A similar adjustment to the usual statistic for testing a linear contrast among group means is described.
Ridge structural equation modelling with correlation matrices for ordinal and continuous data.	This paper develops a ridge procedure for structural equation modelling (SEM) with ordinal and continuous data by modelling the polychoric/polyserial/product-moment correlation matrix R. Rather than directly fitting R, the procedure fits a structural model to R(a) =R+aI by minimizing the normal distribution-based discrepancy function, where a > 0. Statistical properties of the parameter estimates are obtained. Four statistics for overall model evaluation are proposed. Empirical results indicate that the ridge procedure for SEM with ordinal data has better convergence rate, smaller bias, smaller mean square error, and better overall model evaluation than the widely used maximum likelihood procedure.
Relationship between peripheral lung cancer and the surrounding bronchi, pulmonary arteries, pulmonary veins: a multidetector CT observation.	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between peripheral lung cancer and the surrounding pulmonary vessels and bronchi using contrast-enhanced multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) and to analyze associated factors such as pathology types, stage, size, density, and location of peripheral lung cancer.
Prediction of myocardial functional recovery by noninvasive evaluation of Basal and hyperemic coronary flow in patients with previous myocardial infarction.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the relation of basal and hyperemic coronary flow with myocardial functional improvement in patients with previous myocardial infarction undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
Lumbar microdiscectomy: a clinicoradiological analysis of outcome.	The long-term outcome after lumbar microdiscectomy (LMD) may be affected by low back pain (LBP) and segmental instability, the determinants of which remain unclear. We sought to analyze the interaction between clinical, functional, and radiological variables and their impact on patient outcome.
A population-based study of dystrophin mutations in Canada.	We carried out a population-based study of dystrophin mutations in patients followed by members of the Canadian Paediatric Neuromuscular Group (CPNG) over a ten-year period.
Emotional memory in early steroid abnormalities: an FMRI study of adolescents with congenital adrenal hyperplasia.	Hormonal imbalances during development may have long-lasting effects. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we compared 14 youths with Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH), a genetic disorder of hormonal dysfunction, with 22 healthy controls on memory encoding of emotional faces. Patients remembered fewer faces than controls, particularly fearful faces. FMRI data to successfully encoded fearful faces revealed that males with CAH showed significant activations in amygdala, hippocampus, and anterior cingulate relative to unaffected males, while females with CAH demonstrated deactivations relative to unaffected females in these regions. Findings indicate that steroid abnormalities during development can have important effects on neural correlates of emotional memory.
Effective use of interpreters by family nurse practitioner students: is didactic curriculum enough?	Nurse practitioners (NPs) care for patients with limited English proficiency (LEP). However, NP education for improving communication in interpreted encounters is not well reported. We report a single school study using standardized encounters within a clinical practice examination (CPX) to assess the adequacy of current curriculum.
Correlations between MRI white matter lesion location and executive function and episodic memory.	MRI white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volume is associated with cognitive impairment. We hypothesized that specific loci of WMH would correlate with cognition even after accounting for total WMH volume.
A transapical or transluminal approach to aortic valve implantation does not attenuate the inflammatory response.	Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and cardiac surgery cause an inflammatory response, as measurable by an increase in the concentration of C-reactive protein (CRP), a nonspecific inflammation marker. Previous publications have demonstrated typical perioperative CRP concentration profiles in cases of uncomplicated aortic valve replacement (AVR) with CPB. A regression analysis for modifying factors showed that chronic disease (heart failure, diabetes, and pulmonary disease), along with obesity and sex, all tend to influence the CRP response. We analyzed the inflammatory response to aortic valve implantation (AVI) with interventional techniques, mainly transapical but also transfemoral and transaxillary approaches, in a retrospective case-control study design.
Resource utilization in off-pump versus conventional coronary artery bypass grafting in a community hospital: a comparative analysis using propensity scoring.	At a time when cost containment in health care is under increased scrutiny, coronary artery bypass grafting remains the most widely performed cardiac surgical procedure in the world. This study compares 30-day mortality, morbidity, and resource use for off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) versus conventional coronary artery bypass (CCAB) revascularization.
Trait-like characteristics of the sleep EEG across adolescent development.	Waking and sleep data in adults show high heritability and trait-like characteristics in EEG spectra. This phenomenon has not been examined in children and adolescents where brain development influences the EEG. The present study examines whether a trait-like sleep EEG pattern is detectable across adolescent development. Two consecutive nights of standard sleep recordings were performed in 19 9-10-year-old children and 26 15-16-year-old teens, and were repeated 1.5-3 years later. EEG spectra averaged across the night for non-rapid eye movement and rapid eye movement sleep separately were classified using hierarchical cluster analysis, which showed that all 4 nights of a participant clustered together for a majority of participants. Intraclass correlation coefficients were also very high (>0.7) across nights separated by several years, indicating a trait-like feature of the sleep EEG. In summary, our results, using two measures of stability, indicate that a "trait-like" aspect can be detected in the sleep EEG across adolescent development despite considerable neurodevelopmental changes. This finding indicates that the brain oscillators responsible for generating the sleep EEG signal remain relatively stable across adolescent development.
Gap junctions between interneurons are required for normal spatial coding in the hippocampus and short-term spatial memory.	Gap junctions containing connexin 36 electrically couple interneurons in many brain regions and synchronize their activity. We used connexin-36 knock-out mice (Cx36(-/-)) to study the importance of electrical coupling between interneurons for spatial coding in the hippocampus and for different forms of hippocampus-dependent spatial memory. Recordings in behaving mice revealed that the spatial selectivity of hippocampal pyramidal neurons was reduced and less stable in Cx36(-/-) mice. Altered network activity was reflected in slower theta oscillations in the mutants. Temporal coding, assessed by determining the presence and characteristics of theta phase precession, had different dynamics in Cx36(-/-) mice compared with controls. At the behavioral level, Cx36(-/-) mice displayed impaired short-term spatial memory but normal spatial reference memory. These results highlight the functional role of electrically coupled interneurons for spatial coding and cognition. Moreover, they suggest that the precise spatial selectivity of place cells is not essential for normal performance on spatial tasks assessing associative long-term memory.
National anthems and suicide rates.	In a sample of 18 European nations, suicide rates were positively associated with the proportion of low notes in the national anthems and, albeit less strongly, with students' ratings of how gloomy and how sad the anthems sounded, supporting a hypothesis proposed by Rihmer.
Tales from an academic RNAi screening facility; FAQs.	RNAi technology is now a well-established and widely employed research technique that has been adopted by many researchers for use in large-scale screening campaigns. Here, we offer our experience of genome-wide siRNA screening from the perspective of a facility providing screening as a service to a wide range of researchers with diverse interests and approaches. We have experienced the emotional rollercoaster of screening from the exuberant early promise of a screen, the messy reality of the data through to the recognition of screen data as a potential information goldmine. Here, we use some of the questions we most frequently encounter to highlight the initial concerns of many researchers embarking on a siRNA screen and conclude that an informed view of what can be reasonably expected from a screen is essential to the most effective implementation of the technology. Along the way, we suggest that for this area of research at least, either centralization of the resources or close and open collaboration between interested parties offers distinct advantages.
Magnetic resonance volumetric assessments of brains in fetuses with ventriculomegaly correlated to outcomes.	The purpose of this study was to correlate 2-dimensional magnetic resonance (MR) measurements of lateral ventricular width and 3-dimensional measurements of lateral ventricular and supratentorial parenchymal volumes to postnatal outcomes in fetuses with ventriculomegaly.
Evaluation of hepatocellular carcinoma by contrast-enhanced sonography: correlation with pathologic differentiation.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether contrast-enhanced sonography can be used to differentiate histopathologic grades of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Determination of a representative volume element based on the variability of mechanical properties with sample size in bread.	Quantitative analysis of food structure is commonly obtained by image analysis of a small portion of the material that may not be the representative of the whole sample. In order to quantify structural parameters (air cells) of 2 types of bread (bread and bagel) the concept of representative volume element (RVE) was employed. The RVE for bread, bagel, and gelatin-gel (used as control) was obtained from the relationship between sample size and the coefficient of variation, calculated from the apparent Young's modulus measured on 25 replicates. The RVE was obtained when the coefficient of variation for different sample sizes converged to a constant value. In the 2 types of bread tested, the tendency of the coefficient of variation was to decrease as the sample size increased, while in the homogeneous gelatin-gel, it remained always constant around 2.3% to 2.4%. The RVE resulted to be cubes with sides of 45 mm for bread, 20 mm for bagels, and 10 mm for gelatin-gel (smallest sample tested). The quantitative image analysis as well as visual observation demonstrated that bread presented the largest dispersion of air-cell sizes. Moreover, both the ratio of maximum air-cell area/image area and maximum air-cell height/image height were greater for bread (values of 0.05 and 0.30, respectively) than for bagels (0.03 and 0.20, respectively). Therefore, the size and the size variation of air cells present in the structure determined the size of the RVE. It was concluded that RVE is highly dependent on the heterogeneity of the structure of the types of baked products.
FT-NIR spectroscopy for the quality characterization of apricots (Prunus armeniaca L.).	The nondestructive assessment of apricot fruit quality (Bora cultivar) was carried out by means of FT-NIR reflectance spectroscopy in the wavenumber range 12000 to 4000 cm⁻¹. Samples were harvested at four different ripening stages and scanned by a fiber optical probe immediately after harvesting and after a storage of 3 d (2 d at 4 °C and 1 d at 18 °C); the flesh firmness (FF), the soluble solids content (SSC), the acidity (A), and the titratable acidity (malic and citric acids) were then measured by destructive methods. Soft independent modeling of class analogy (SIMCA) analysis was used to classify spectra according to the ripening stage and the storage: partial least squares regression (PLS) models to predict FF, SSC, A, and the titratable acidity were also set-up for both just harvested and stored apricots. Spectral pretreatments and wavenumber selections were conducted on the basis of explorative principal component analysis (PCA). Apricot spectra were correctly classified in the right class with a mean classification rate of 87% (range: 80% to 100%). Test set validations of PLS models showed R2 values up to 0.620, 0.863, 0.842, and 0.369 for FF, SSC, A, and the titratable acidity, respectively. The best models were obtained for the SSC and A and are suitable for rough screening; a lower power prediction emerged for the other maturity indices and the relative predictive models are not recommended.
Application of condoms on male clients by female sex workers in Yerevan, Armenia: prevalence and correlates.	This study sought to assess the prevalence of consistent condom application on male clients by female sex workers (FSWs) in Armenia and its association with demographic, psychosocial and behavioural factors. In this cross-sectional study, 120 street-based FSWs aged 20-52 completed an interviewer-administered questionnaire. The primary outcome measure was consistent application of condoms by FSWs on their male clients. A total of 21.7% of participants reported consistently applying condoms on clients. Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that higher condom use self-efficacy (Adjusted Odds Ratio, AOR=1.1; p=0.01), lower perceived condom use barriers (AOR=0.9; p=0.04) and not using douching as a method to prevent STI/HIV (AOR=4.8; p=0.04) significantly predicted consistent condom application. Higher HIV/AIDS knowledge was a marginally significant predictor of condom application (AOR=1.3; p=0.05). Future interventions should address these modifiable factors to encourage FSWs to apply condoms on clients themselves, which may reduce condom failure and exposure to HIV transmission.
Emotion recognition and experience in Huntington's disease: is there a differential impairment?	Findings on affective processing deficits in Huntington's disease (HD) have been inconsistent. It is still not clear whether HD patients are afflicted by specific deficits in emotion recognition and experience. We tested 28 symptomatic HD patients and presented them with pictures depicting facial expressions of emotions (Karolinska-Set) and with affective scenes (International Affective Picture System; IAPS). The faces were judged according to the displayed intensity of six basic emotions, whereas the scenes received intensity ratings for the elicited emotions in the viewer. Patients' responses were compared with those of 28 healthy controls. HD patients gave lower intensity ratings for facial expressions of anger, disgust and surprise than controls. Patients' recognition deficits were associated with reduced functional capacity, such as problems with social interactions. Moreover, their classification accuracy was reduced for angry, disgusted, sad and surprised faces. When judging affective scenes for the elicitation of happiness, disgust and fear, HD patients had a tendency to estimate them as more intense than controls. This finding points to a differential impairment in emotion recognition and emotion experience in HD. We found no significant correlations between emotion experience/recognition ratings and CAG repeats, symptom duration and UHDRS Motor Assessment in the patient group.
Assessing comprehension of clinical research.	Comprehension and retention of study-related concepts by research subjects are understudied, particularly in certain areas of women's health such as menopausal hormone therapy (MHT).
Comparison of needlescopic and conventional video-assisted thoracic surgery for primary spontaneous pneumothorax.	Whether the outcome of primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) when treated with needlescopic video-assisted thoracic surgery is positive is still under scrutiny. The present study was conducted to compare the needlescopic approach with the conventional approach. One-hundred and six patients with primary spontaneous pneumothorax who had undergone needlescopic video-assisted thoracic surgery (NVATS) between May 2006 and August 2008 were reviewed. Their age, gender, smoking status, BMI, side of attack, operative indications, operative time, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative length of stay, postoperative pain in visual analog scale (VAS), postoperative recurrence and follow-up period were recorded. These data were compared with those of 89 patients with PSP who had undergone conventional video-assisted thoracic surgery (CVATS) between June 2002 and April 2006. The operative time was shorter (NVATS: 82.36 ± 35.58 min, CVATS: 99.78 ± 35.74 min; p = 0.008) and intraoperative blood loss was less (NVATS: 16.67 ± 25.90 ml, CVATS: 24.36 ± 26.86 ml; p = 0.04) for the NVATS group. The postoperative pain in VAS was significantly less in NVATS. No major complication or mortality was found in either group. For treatment of primary spontaneous pneumothorax, NVATS is a safe and effective option. Further, it has the added benefit of less pain and improved cosmetics.
Additive neurocognitive deficits in adults with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and depressive symptoms.	The purpose of this study was to examine the possible additive neurocognitive deficits in adults with both attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and serious depressive symptoms. Participants were 54 university students who completed a psycho-educational assessment. Three groups were examined: a group with comorbid ADHD and elevated depressive symptoms (ADHD + DEP; N = 18); a group with ADHD only (N = 18); and a group with elevated depressive symptoms only (DEP; N = 18). Group differences were examined on a battery of neurocognitive tests. The ADHD + DEP group performed significantly worse than the other groups on processing speed tasks and delayed recall of conceptual verbal information and significantly worse than the ADHD group on shifting tasks. Depressive symptom severity was significantly correlated with processing speed, verbal memory performance, and shifting in the ADHD and ADHD + DEP groups. Results suggest that the co-occurrence of ADHD and depressive symptoms in adults is associated with additional neurocognitive impairment.
The importance of addressing social determinants of health at the local level: the case for social capital.	Social determinants are gaining momentum in public health practice. Many proposed solutions for tackling social determinants are outside the scope of local public health professionals. This article reviews the literature to find possible moderating variables which may buffer the effects of the social determinants of health at the local level, and allow social determinants to be addressed within the purview of local health departments. The systematic approach employed for this article entailed searches of electronic academic databases (PubMed, EBSCO and Medline) and additional searches using Internet search engines and relevant websites for articles published between 1,975 and May 2010. The search revealed 2,554 articles, and 36 were determined appropriate for inclusion. The purpose of the search was to identify published articles relating to social determinants of health, social capital and effective approaches for addressing both at the level of the local health department. The search was then expanded to include unpublished material, to include the perspectives of local health departments. This process resulted in the inclusion of content from five sources. In this article, the case is made for focusing on social capital interventions to mitigate health problems associated with social determinants. Examples of successful interventions are provided to aid public health professionals in developing locale-specific solutions for addressing social determinants.
Processing speed and working memory performance in those with both ADHD and a reading disorder compared with those with ADHD alone.	In previous studies, children with both Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and a Reading Disorder were found to have more difficulties with processing speed, working memory, and timed as opposed to non-timed executive functioning (EF) measures when compared with those with either disorder alone. The current study found that older adolescents and adults with both disorders also had more difficulties on processing speed and working memory measures than individuals who only had ADHD. There were no differences among non-timed EF scores. These results add support to the premise that common underlying features may be contributing to the high co-morbidity between these disorders and associated cognitive weaknesses.
Source selection in prescription drug information seeking and influencing factors: applying the comprehensive model of information seeking in an American context.	This study investigates source selection in prescription drug information seeking and influencing factors on selection and seeking behaviors applying a modified Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking in an American context. Survey results suggest consumers engage in prescription drug information search before and after visiting a doctor, but search is not extensive. Consumers turn to the Internet, pharmacists, and doctors most frequently for prescription drug information. Information-seeking behaviors are rather universal across demographic and health-related characteristics; however, higher income consumers are more likely to search. Although our study shows some support for the modified Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking, the results indicate influencing factors vary by information source types examined, suggesting the model is more complex than predicted. The study advances research on health communication, information-seeking behaviors, and prescription drug decision making.
Totally laparoscopic gastrectomy for gastric cancer: meta-analysis of short-term outcomes.	We present a review of the literature, together with a meta-analysis of short-term outcomes of totally laparoscopic gastrectomy (TLG) compared with open gastrectomy (OG).
Computed tomography enterography detects intestinal wall changes and effects of treatment in patients with Crohn's disease.	The use of computed tomography enterography (CTE) in patients with Crohn's disease has increased. However, there is little data available on how radiologic parameters of active disease change during treatment with infliximab and whether these changes correspond to symptoms, serum biomarkers, or endoscopic appearance.
Vitamin d status in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who participate in pulmonary rehabilitation.	Vitamin D deficiency is common in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; however, no study has evaluated the influence of vitamin D status on effects of pulmonary rehabilitation (PR).
Excessive Internet gaming and decision making: do excessive World of Warcraft players have problems in decision making under risky conditions?	The dysfunctional behavior of excessive Internet gamers, such as preferring the immediate reward (to play World of Warcraft) despite the negative long-term consequences may be comparable with the dysfunctional behavior in substance abusers or individuals with behavioral addictions, e.g. pathological gambling. In these disorders, general decision-making deficits have been demonstrated. Hence, the aim of the present work was to examine decision-making competences of excessive World of Warcraft players. Nineteen excessive Internet gamers (EIG) and a control group (CG) consisting of 19 non-gamers were compared with respect to decision-making abilities. The Game of Dice Task (GDT) was applied to measure decision-making under risky conditions. Furthermore psychological-psychiatric symptoms were assessed in both groups. The EIG showed a reduced decision-making ability in the GDT. Furthermore the EIG group showed a higher psychological-psychiatric symptomatology in contrast to the CG. The results indicate that the reduced decision-making ability of EIG is comparable with patients with other forms of behavioral addiction (e.g. pathological gambling), impulse control disorders or substance abusers. Thus, these results suggest that excessive Internet gaming may be based on a myopia for the future, meaning that EIG prefer to play World of Warcraft despite the negative long-term consequences in social or work domains of life.
Neuroimaging signatures and cognitive correlates of the montreal cognitive assessment screen in a nonclinical elderly sample.	The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) screen was developed as a brief instrument to identify mild cognitive impairment and dementia among older individuals. To date, limited information is available regarding the neuroimaging signatures associated with performance on the scale, or the relationship between the MoCA and more comprehensive cognitive screening measures. The present study examined performances on the MoCA among 111 non-clinical older adults (ages 51-85) enrolled in a prospective study of cognitive aging. Participants were administered the MoCA, Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), and the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). A subset of participants (N = 69) underwent structural 3 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to define the volumes of total frontal gray matter, total hippocampus, T2-weighted subcortical hyperintensities (SH), and total brain volume. The results revealed significant correlations between the total score on the MoCA and total score on the RBANS and MMSE, though the strength of the correlations was more robust between the MoCA and the RBANS. Modest correlations between individual subscales of the MoCA and neuroimaging variables were evident, but no patterns of shared variance emerged between the MoCA total score and neuroimaging indices. In contrast, total brain volume correlated significantly with total score on the RBANS. These results suggest that additional studies are needed to define the significance of MoCA scores relative to brain integrity among an older population.
Base rates of post-concussive symptoms in a nonconcussed multicultural sample.	The purpose of this preliminary study was to investigate differences in base rates of post-concussion syndrome (PCS) symptomatology in healthy individuals separated by cultural identity and language. In this study, we sought to determine if differences exist in terms of base-rate endorsement of PCS symptomatology in healthy individuals and whether culture and language-based specific clusters of PCS symptomatology exist in healthy individuals. A total of 151 participants, consisting of 33 Caucasians, 49 Chinese, Filipinos, and Southeast Asians, 43 Arabs, West Asians, and South Asians, and 26 participants of African descent completed four questionnaires and two subtests of a test of verbal ability. We found that the occurrence of PCS symptoms did not differ by culture and language-based groups in general, but that there were differences between groups in the base rates of individual symptom endorsement. Our preliminary findings illustrate that cultural and linguistic background may play a moderating role in the endorsement of PCS symptomatology and that false-positive conclusions may be reached disproportionally between groups. Our results underscore the importance of considering the influence of culture and language, in conjunction with a growing list of factors that can influence, maintain, and/or mimic persistent PCS.
I-CAN SLEEP: rationale and design of a non-inferiority RCT of Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for the treatment of Insomnia in CANcer survivors.	Individuals with cancer are disproportionately affected by sleep disturbances, relative to the general population. These problems can be a consequence of the psychological, behavioral and physical effects of a cancer diagnosis and treatment. Sleep disturbances often persist for years and, when combined with already high levels of cancer-related distress, may place cancer survivors at a higher risk of future psychopathology, health problems and poorer quality of life. It is important to develop and evaluate treatments that comprehensively address the common symptom profiles experienced by cancer survivors.
Propensity score-based sensitivity analysis method for uncontrolled confounding.	The authors developed a sensitivity analysis method to address the issue of uncontrolled confounding in observational studies. In this method, the authors use a 1-dimensional function of the propensity score, which they refer to as the sensitivity function (SF), to quantify the hidden bias due to unmeasured confounders. The propensity score is defined as the conditional probability of being treated given the measured covariates. Then the authors construct SF-corrected inverse-probability-weighted estimators to draw inference on the causal treatment effect. This approach allows analysts to conduct a comprehensive sensitivity analysis in a straightforward manner by varying sensitivity assumptions on both the functional form and the coefficients in the 1-dimensional SF. Furthermore, 1-dimensional continuous functions can be well approximated by low-order polynomial structures (e.g., linear, quadratic). Therefore, even if the imposed SF is practically certain to be incorrect, one can still hope to obtain valuable information on treatment effects by conducting a comprehensive sensitivity analysis using polynomial SFs with varying orders and coefficients. The authors demonstrate the new method by implementing it in an asthma study which evaluates the effect of clinician prescription patterns regarding inhaled corticosteroids for children with persistent asthma on selected clinical outcomes.
Clinical correlates of maltreatment and traumatic experiences in childhood and adolescence among predominantly African American, socially disadvantaged, hospitalized, first-episode psychosis patients.	Associations among maltreatment and traumatic experiences in childhood and adolescence, later substance use, and subsequent mental health outcomes for individuals with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders have been initially explored in previous studies; however, research on these factors in socially disadvantaged patients with first-episode psychosis is unavailable. This exploratory, correlational analysis examined associations between maltreatment and trauma-related variables (e.g., traumatic experiences, parental harsh discipline, violence exposure) and: social variables (years of education attained and extent of Axis IV psychosocial problems at initial hospitalization), substance abuse (age at initiation of alcohol and cannabis use, as well as estimates of lifetime intake of both), and positive and negative symptom severity. Rates of childhood abuse and traumatic events were remarkably high in the sample. Years of educational attainment and number of Axis IV psychosocial problems were substantially correlated with several domains of childhood abuse/traumatic events. Age at initiation of alcohol and cannabis use, and lifetime alcohol and cannabis intake, were correlated with a number of trauma domains. Whereas positive symptom severity was correlated with four of the trauma variables, negative symptom severity was correlated only with prior emotional neglect. These results provide insights into the relations among childhood traumatic events, substance use, and clinical features of first-episode psychosis, creating hypotheses for future research.
Gender, race, and socioeconomic status affects outcomes after lung cancer resections in the United States.	The effect of gender, race, and socioeconomic status on contemporary outcomes after lung cancer resections has not been comprehensively evaluated across the United States. We hypothesized that risk-adjusted outcomes for lung cancer resections would not be influenced by these factors.
Preventing interference between different memory tasks.	When learned in quick succession, declarative and motor skill tasks interfere with one another and subsequent recall is impaired. Depending on the order of the tasks, we were able to prevent memory interference in humans by applying transcranial magnetic stimulation to either the dorsolateral prefrontal or the primary motor cortex, and neither memory was impaired. Our observations suggest that distinct mechanisms support the communication between different types of memory processing.
Measuring brain temperature while maintaining brain normothermia in patients with severe traumatic brain injury.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between superficial temporal artery temperature (Tt), rectal temperature (Tr) and intracranial temperature (ICT) when attempting to keep the brain in a normothermic condition in patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). We also compared the incidence of temperature gradient reversal in patients who survived (survivors) and patients who did not (non-survivors) and the difference in temperature gradient reversal between survivors and non-survivors. Tr is normally lower than and ICT and temperature gradient reversal, when Tr exceeds ICT, has been demonstrated to be an early sign of brain death. A total of 28 patients with severe TBI were enrolled retrospectively in our study between November 2008 and February 2010. Each patient's Tt, Tr and ICT was recorded every hour for 4 days. Our results show that the frequency of brain hyperthermia in our participants (ICT>38°C) was 17.7%. Using a paired t-test and Bland-Altman plots, it was shown that a significant temperature difference existed between Tt, Tr and ICT (p<0.001). The use of Spearman's correlation method revealed that Tt, Tr and ICT were positively correlated (p<0.001). Brain death occurred in five patients at a mean of 9.6 hours (range: 8-12 hours) after a temperature gradient reversal between Tt, Tr and ICT. Fisher's exact test showed that there was a significant difference in the incidence of temperature gradient reversal between Tt, Tr and ICT in survivors and non-survivors (p<0.001). We conclude that a significant temperature difference exists between Tt, Tr and ICT when maintaining brain normothermia. The daily practice of non-invasive Tt measurement may cause doctors to underestimate ICT; reversal of the ICT and Tt and/or Tr temperatures could be an early marker of a poor prognosis for patients with severe TBI.
Regional white matter hyperintensities in normal aging, single domain amnestic mild cognitive impairment, and mild Alzheimer's disease.	Few studies have examined white matter hyperintensities (WMH) along the cognitive continuum between single-domain amnestic mild cognitive impairment (sd-aMCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aims of our study were to explore relationships between the extent and location of WMH and disease severity along the cognitive continuum and to determine whether differences in the distribution of WMH could be predictive of specific patterns of cognitive impairment. We compared cognitive function, vascular risk factors, and regional (frontal lobe, parieto-occipital [PO] lobe, temporal lobe, periventricular [PV] white matter and deep white matter) WMH volume in 37 patients with mild AD, 23 patients with sd-aMCI, and 24 age-matched and education-matched normal controls. A quantitative volumetric method was applied to measure WMH burden. Total and regional WMH burdens, except for those in the temporal lobe, were significantly correlated with age (p<0.01). We found a trend toward increasing WMH volume with disease severity, higher in AD than in sd-aMCI and lowest in the controls. Total WMH volume was associated with the global cognitive test score. In multiple linear regression analysis, PV WMH volume, but not deep WMH volume, strongly predicted performances on the Controlled Oral Word Association test and the Color Word Stroop test after adjusting for important demographic variables. Only PO WMH volume was a significant predictor of a cognitive test score when frontal and temporal WMH volumes were simultaneously entered into the regression model. The extent and distribution of WMH, especially in the PV and PO regions, were associated with disease severity and reduced cognition.
Two-photon calcium imaging of evoked activity from L5 somatosensory neurons in vivo.	Multiphoton imaging (MPI) is widely used for recording activity simultaneously from many neurons in superficial cortical layers in vivo. We combined regenerative amplification multiphoton microscopy (RAMM) with genetically encoded calcium indicators to extend MPI of neuronal population activity into layer 5 (L5) of adult mouse somatosensory cortex. We found that this approach could be used to record and quantify spontaneous and sensory-evoked activity in populations of L5 neuronal somata located as much as 800 μm below the pia. In addition, we found that RAMM could be used to simultaneously image activity from large (80) populations of apical dendrites and follow these dendrites down to their somata of origin.
A biologist's guide to de novo genome assembly using next-generation sequence data: A test with fungal genomes.	We offer a guide to de novo genome assembly using sequence data generated by the Illumina platform for biologists working with fungi or other organisms whose genomes are less than 100Mb in size. The guide requires no familiarity with sequencing assembly technology or associated computer programs. It defines commonly used terms in genome sequencing and assembly; provides examples of assembling short-read genome sequence data for four strains of the fungus Grosmannia clavigera using four assembly programs; gives examples of protocols and software; and presents a commented flowchart that extends from DNA preparation for submission to a sequencing center, through to processing and assembly of the raw sequence reads using freely available operating systems and software.
Parkin-mediated protection of dopaminergic neurons in a chronic MPTP-minipump mouse model of Parkinson disease.	Loss-of-function mutations in the ubiquitin ligase parkin are the major cause of recessively inherited early-onset Parkinson disease (PD). Impairment of parkin activity caused by nitrosative or dopamine-related modifications may also be responsible for the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in sporadic PD. Previous studies have shown that viral vector-mediated delivery of parkin prevented DA neurodegeneration in several animal models, but little is known about the neuroprotective actions of parkin in vivo. Here, we investigated mechanisms of neuroprotection of overexpressed parkin in a modified long-term mouse model of PD using osmotic minipump administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Recombinant adeno-associated viral vector-mediated intranigral delivery of parkin prevented motor deficits and DA cell loss in the mice. Ser129-phosphorylated α-synuclein-immunoreactive cells were increased in the substantia nigra of parkin-treated mice. Moreover, delivery of parkin alleviated the MPTP-induced decrease of the active phosphorylated form of Akt. On the other hand, upregulation of p53 and mitochondrial alterations induced by chronic MPTP administration were barely suppressed by parkin. These results suggest that the neuroprotective actions of parkin may be impaired in severe PD.
Differential connectivity and response dynamics of excitatory and inhibitory neurons in visual cortex.	Neuronal responses during sensory processing are influenced by both the organization of intracortical connections and the statistical features of sensory stimuli. How these intrinsic and extrinsic factors govern the activity of excitatory and inhibitory populations is unclear. Using two-photon calcium imaging in vivo and intracellular recordings in vitro, we investigated the dependencies between synaptic connectivity, feature selectivity and network activity in pyramidal cells and fast-spiking parvalbumin-expressing (PV) interneurons in mouse visual cortex. In pyramidal cell populations, patterns of neuronal correlations were largely stimulus-dependent, indicating that their responses were not strongly dominated by functionally biased recurrent connectivity. By contrast, visual stimulation only weakly modified co-activation patterns of fast-spiking PV cells, consistent with the observation that these broadly tuned interneurons received very dense and strong synaptic input from nearby pyramidal cells with diverse feature selectivities. Therefore, feedforward and recurrent network influences determine the activity of excitatory and inhibitory ensembles in fundamentally different ways.
Both preparing to teach and teaching positively impact learning outcomes for peer teachers.	We sought to evaluate the independent effects of preparing to teach and teaching on peer teacher learning outcomes.
Towards outcome-based programme evaluation: using student comparative self-assessments to determine teaching effectiveness.	Programme evaluation of medical education should be multi-dimensional. While structural and organisational aspects of teaching are frequently assessed, programme evaluation tools are rarely matched to specific learning objectives.
Hypothesis tests and p-values.	The goal of this column is to help working clinicians understand p-values and the machinery of hypothesis testing underlying them, using a fictional study of an anti-insomnia drug. The author discusses what p-values really mean and common misconceptions concerning them.
Correlations between shape and near infrared reflective properties of nano/micro-yttria.	Yttria nanorods, nanoflakes and microshperes have been prepared via solvothermal and homogeneous precipitation methods followed by further calcining treatment, without any catalysts, templates, or substrates, in which yttrium nitrate was used as the yttrium source, sodium hydroxide and urea as the precipitators. The results show that the reflectivity of nano-yttria has significant correlations with its nanostructures. In contrast, Y2O3 microshperes possess about 90% reflectivity in the NIR region, which can be applied in energy saving and military camouflage etc.
Respiratory motion correction for quantitative PET/CT using all detected events with internal-external motion correlation.	We present a method to correct respiratory motion blurring in PET/CT imaging using internal-external (INTEX) motion correlation. The internal motion of a known tumor is derived from respiratory-gated PET images; this internal motion is then correlated with external respiratory signals to determine the complete information of tumor motion during the scan.
Volumetric and visual rating of magnetic resonance imaging scans in the diagnosis of amnestic mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.	In the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans have been used primarily to exclude non-Alzheimer's causes of dementia. However, the pattern and the extent of medial temporal atrophy on structural MRI scans, which correlate strongly with the pathological severity of AD, can be used to support the diagnosis of a degenerative dementia, especially AD, even in its early predementia stage.
Costs of care in a mild-to-moderate Alzheimer clinical trial sample: key resources and their determinants.	Costs of care are frequently included as secondary endpoint in Alzheimer clinical trials because payers demand evidence of the budgetary effects of novel therapies. Future clinical trial protocols can be optimized on the basis of the currently available data, including what are the key resources and how are they correlated to disease severity measures.
Principles of the calculation of blood corpuscles in biological fluids, by using slide trays]	Counting blood corpuscles in biological fluids, by using slide trays is a current, rapid, and convenient method. For their adequate calculation, it is necessary to know the volume of biological material under the chamber array of a slide tray, the total volume of the chamber in microl, and the degree of biological material concentration. When the Nechiporenko test reveals single urinary costs, it is recommended to count the latter in the whole chamber of a slide tray, followed by division of their count by the total volume of the chamber in microl. All required data must be given in an instruction for slide trays.
Social regulation of serotonin in the auditory midbrain.	The neuromodulator serotonin regulates auditory processing and can increase within minutes in response to stimuli like broadband noise as well as nonauditory stressors. Little is known about the serotonergic response in the auditory system to more natural stimuli such as social interactions. Using carbon-fiber voltammetry, we measured extracellular serotonin in the auditory midbrain of resident male mice during encounters with a male intruder. Serotonin increased in the inferior colliculus (IC) over the course of a 15 minute interaction, but not when mice were separated with a perforated barrier. Several behaviors, including the amount of immobility and anogenital investigation performed by the resident, were correlated with the serotonergic response. Multiple intrinsic factors associated with individual mice also correlated with the serotonergic response. One of these was age: older mice had smaller serotonergic responses to the social interaction. In a second interaction, individual identity predicted serotonergic responses that were highly consistent with those in the first interaction, even when mice were paired with different intruders. Serotonin was also significantly elevated in the second social interaction relative to the first, suggesting a role for social experience. These findings show that during social interaction, serotonin in the IC is influenced by extrinsic factors such as the directness of social interaction and intrinsic factors including age, individual identity, and experience.
Disrupted brain connectivity networks in drug-naive, first-episode major depressive disorder.	Neuroimaging studies have shown that major depressive disorder (MDD) is accompanied by structural and functional abnormalities in specific brain regions and connections; yet, little is known about alterations of the topological organization of whole-brain networks in MDD patients.
Statistical optimization of medium composition for bacterial cellulose production by Gluconacetobacter hansenii UAC09 using coffee cherry husk extract--an agro-industry waste.	During the production of grape wine, the formation of thick leathery pellicle/bacterial cellulose (BC) at the airliquid interface was due to the bacterium, which was isolated and identified as Gluconacetobacter hansenii UAC09. Cultural conditions for bacterial cellulose production from G. hansenii UAC09 were optimized by central composite rotatable experimental design. To economize the BC production, coffee cherry husk (CCH) extract and corn steep liquor (CSL) were used as less expensive sources of carbon and nitrogen, respectively. CCH and CSL are byproducts from the coffee processing and starch processing industry, respectively. The interactions between pH (4.5- 8.5), CSL (2-10%), alcohol (0.5-2%), acetic acid (0.5- 2%), and water dilution rate to CCH ratio (1:1 to 1:5) were studied using response surface methodology. The optimum conditions for maximum BC production were pH (6.64), CSL (10%), alcohol (0.5%), acetic acid (1.13%), and water to CCH ratio (1:1). After 2 weeks of fermentation, the amount of BC produced was 6.24 g/l. This yield was comparable to the predicted value of 6.09 g/l. This is the first report on the optimization of the fermentation medium by RSM using CCH extract as the carbon source for BC production by G. hansenii UAC09.
Neurophysiological and behavioural correlates of coherent motion perception in dyslexia.	Coherent motion perception was tested in nine adolescents with dyslexia and 10 control participants matched for age and IQ using low contrast stimuli with three levels of coherence (10%, 25% and 40%). Event-related potentials (ERPs) and behavioural performance data were obtained. No significant between-group differences were found in performance accuracy and response latencies of correct responses, for early (P1, N1, and P2) or late (P3) ERP peaks. However, attenuated early ERPs in the 10% coherent condition correlated significantly with lower performance accuracy (r = -.66) and with the magnitude of literacy deficit (r = -.46).
Working memory and multidimensional schizotypy: dissociable influences of the different dimensions.	Compromised working memory is considered a core deficit of schizophrenia and a potential endophenotype for the liability to develop schizophrenia. In keeping with this suggestion, working memory has also been found to be disrupted in people with high levels of schizotypy. However, it is unclear whether this disruption is linked to positive, negative, or disorganized symptoms/characteristics. This issue is the focus of the present investigation. The relationship between multidimensional schizotypy and working memory performance was investigated in 289 participants. Working memory was measured using an n-back task with three conditions; 0-back, 1-back, and 2-back. Covarying for the effect of shared variance between the schizotypy dimensions, we found reduced working memory performance in participants who displayed high levels of positive schizotypy and, to some extent, in participants with low levels of negative schizotypy. The results are discussed in terms of Baddeley's (1986) model of working memory and potential underlying neurological mechanisms.
Heritability of working memory brain activation.	Although key to understanding individual variation in task-related brain activation, the genetic contribution to these individual differences remains largely unknown. Here we report voxel-by-voxel genetic model fitting in a large sample of 319 healthy, young adult, human identical and fraternal twins (mean ± SD age, 23.6 ± 1.8 years) who performed an n-back working memory task during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at a high magnetic field (4 tesla). Patterns of task-related brain response (BOLD signal difference of 2-back minus 0-back) were significantly heritable, with the highest estimates (40-65%) in the inferior, middle, and superior frontal gyri, left supplementary motor area, precentral and postcentral gyri, middle cingulate cortex, superior medial gyrus, angular gyrus, superior parietal lobule, including precuneus, and superior occipital gyri. Furthermore, high test-retest reliability for a subsample of 40 twins indicates that nongenetic variance in the fMRI brain response is largely due to unique environmental influences rather than measurement error. Individual variations in activation of the working memory network are therefore significantly influenced by genetic factors. By establishing the heritability of cognitive brain function in a large sample that affords good statistical power, and using voxel-by-voxel analyses, this study provides the necessary evidence for task-related brain activation to be considered as an endophenotype for psychiatric or neurological disorders, and represents a substantial new contribution to the field of neuroimaging genetics. These genetic brain maps should facilitate discovery of gene variants influencing cognitive brain function through genome-wide association studies, potentially opening up new avenues in the treatment of brain disorders.
How ongoing neuronal oscillations account for evoked fMRI variability.	Variability of evoked single-trial responses despite constant input or task is a feature of large-scale brain signals recorded by fMRI. Initial evidence signified relevance of fMRI signal variability for perception and behavior. Yet the underlying intrinsic neuronal sources have not been previously substantiated. Here, we address this issue using simultaneous EEG-fMRI and real-time classification of ongoing alpha-rhythm states triggering visual stimulation in human subjects. We investigated whether spontaneous neuronal oscillations-as reflected in the posterior alpha rhythm-account for variability of evoked fMRI responses. Based on previous work, we specifically hypothesized linear superposition of fMRI activity related to fluctuations of ongoing alpha rhythm and a visually evoked fMRI response. We observed that spontaneous alpha-rhythm power fluctuations largely explain evoked fMRI response variance in extrastriate, thalamic, and cerebellar areas. For extrastriate areas, we confirmed the linear superposition hypothesis. We hence linked evoked fMRI response variability to an intrinsic rhythm's power fluctuations. These findings contribute to our conceptual understanding of how brain rhythms can account for trial-by-trial variability in stimulus processing.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation enhances BDNF-TrkB signaling in both brain and lymphocyte.	Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) induces neuronal long-term potentiation or depression. Although brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its cognate tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB) contribute to the effects of rTMS, their precise role and underlying mechanism remain poorly understood. Here we show that daily 5 Hz rTMS for 5 d improves BDNF-TrkB signaling in rats by increasing the affinity of BDNF for TrkB, which results in higher tyrosine-phosphorylated TrkB, increased recruitment of PLC-γ1 and shc/N-shc to TrkB, and heightened downstream ERK2 and PI-3K activities in prefrontal cortex and in lymphocytes. The elevated BDNF-TrkB signaling is accompanied by an increased association between the activated TrkB and NMDA receptor (NMDAR). In normal human subjects, 5 d rTMS to motor cortex decreased resting motor threshold, which correlates with heightened BDNF-TrkB signaling and intensified TrkB-NMDAR association in lymphocytes. These findings suggest that rTMS to cortex facilitates BDNF-TrkB-NMDAR functioning in both cortex and lymphocytes.
Development and testing of a survey instrument to measure benefits of a nursing information system.	Information systems (IS) benefits for nurses are outcomes related to the tangible products or improvements that nurses realize from using IS. This study examined the development and psychometric testing of a measure of nurses' benefits from IS. A random sample of 570 nurses working in hospitals, providing direct patient care, and using IS completed the study questionnaire. The internal consistency reliability of the results was .97. Exploratory factor analysis, using principal components extraction and varimax rotation, revealed items loaded on four factors (saving time and efficiency, quality of care, charting, and professional practice) that were confirmed by confirmatory factor analysis. Continued refinement of the instrument is needed with more diverse samples of nurses.
Sampling Extreme Groups Invalidates Research on the Paraphilias: Implications for DSM-5 and Sex Offender Risk Assessments.	Psychiatrist and Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV) text editor Michael First has criticized the addition of victim counts to criteria proposed by the Paraphilia Sub-Workgroup for inclusion in DSM-5 because they will increase false-positive diagnoses. Psychologist and Chair of the DSM-5 Paraphilia Sub-Workgroup, Ray Blanchard, responded by publishing a study of pedohebephiles and teleiophiles which seemed to show that victim counts could accurately identify pedohebephiles who were selected per self-report and phallometric testing. His analysis was flawed because it did not conform to conventional clinical practice and because he sampled groups at opposite ends of the clinical spectrum. In an analysis of his full sample, we found the false-positive rate for pedohebephilia at the recommended victim count selection points was indeed very large. Why? Because data analyses that eliminate intermediate data points will generate inflated estimates of correlation coefficients, base rates, and the discriminative capacity of predictor variables. This principle is also relevant for understanding the flaws in previous research that led Hanson and Bussiere to conclude that sexual recidivism was correlated with "sexual interest in children as measured by phallometric assessment." The credibility of mental health professionals rests on the reliability of their research. Conducting, publishing, and citing research that reflects
A mixed methods service evaluation of a pilot functional electrical stimulation clinic for the correction of dropped foot in patients with chronic stroke.	To undertake a service evaluation of the pilot Lothian functional electrical stimulation (FES) clinic using both quantitative and qualitative methods and clinical practice reflection.
Glycaemic indices and non-traditional biochemical cardiovascular disease markers in a diabetic population in Nigeria.	To determine the frequency of hyperfibrinogenaemia, elevated C-reactive protein, hyperuricaemia and elevated lipoprotein A in a clinic population of patients with type 2 Diabetes mellitus (DM) compared with healthy controls; and determine the interrelationship between fasting plasma glucose levels and indices of long-term glycaemic control (fructosamine and glycosylated haemoglobin) in DM.
Use of concept mapping as a facilitative tool to promote learning in pharmacology.	To assess whether students find concept mapping a useful learning methodology to conceptualize and organize topics studied in CNS module of Pharmacology; and to evaluate whether addition of concept mapping assignment could help to improve examination scores.
Uninvolved versus target muscle contraction during contract: relax proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretching.	The purpose of this study was to compare the acute effect of the contract-relax (CR) stretching technique on knee active range of motion (ROM) using target muscle contraction or an uninvolved muscle contraction.
Quadricep and hamstring activation during drop jumps with changes in drop height.	Compare the muscle activation patterns of the quadricep-hamstring during drop jumps with increasing demands of drop heights.
Relationship among eccentric hip and knee torques, symptom severity and functional capacity in females with patellofemoral pain syndrome.	To determine the relationships between eccentric hip and knee torques, symptom severity and functional capacity in females with patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS).
Pressures to adhere to treatment ('leverage') in English mental healthcare.	Coercion has usually been equated with legal detention. Non-statutory pressures to adhere to treatment, 'leverage', have been identified as widespread in US public mental healthcare. It is not clear if this is so outside the USA.
Accelerated hypothesis generation for multistructure data via preference analysis.	Random hypothesis generation is integral to many robust geometric model fitting techniques. Unfortunately, it is also computationally expensive, especially for higher order geometric models and heavily contaminated data. We propose a fundamentally new approach to accelerate hypothesis sampling by guiding it with information derived from residual sorting. We show that residual sorting innately encodes the probability of two points having arisen from the same model, and is obtained without recourse to domain knowledge (e.g., keypoint matching scores) typically used in previous sampling enhancement methods. More crucially, our approach encourages sampling within coherent structures and thus can very rapidly generate all-inlier minimal subsets that maximize the robust criterion. Sampling within coherent structures also affords a natural ability to handle multistructure data, a condition that is usually detrimental to other methods. The result is a sampling scheme that offers substantial speed-ups on common computer vision tasks such as homography and fundamental matrix estimation. We show on many computer vision data, especially those with multiple structures, that ours is the only method capable of retrieving satisfactory results within realistic time budgets.
Months in space: synaesthesia modulates attention and action.	Month-space synaesthetes experience months as sequences arranged in spatially defined configurations. While most works on synaesthesia have studied its perceptual implications, this study focuses on the synaesthetic influence on a synaesthete's action behaviour. S.M., a month-space synaesthete, and 5 matched controls performed a spatial Stroop-like task in a haptics and virtual reality combined environment, which was especially designed to simulate S.M.'s three-dimensional synaesthetic experience. In the experiment, a circle and a word were presented simultaneously. The word consisted of either a month name or a direction name and was located at the centre of the screen, while the circle was displayed in one of four peripheral positions-top, bottom, right, or left. When S.M. was asked to ignore the word and reach for the circle, no effects were found. In contrast, when she was asked to ignore the circle and reach for a location indicated by the word, a congruency effect was found for both months and direction words. Crucially, these effects were evident in all measurements of reaching performance (i.e., path, velocity, and trajectory of movement). Our findings revealed that for month-space synaesthetes, months trigger spatial shifts of attention in a similar manner as directions do. Moreover, these shifts of attention affected not only latent cognitive processes (i.e., reaction time) but also overt behaviour (i.e., entire hand movements).
Sensitization and chronic beryllium disease at a primary manufacturing facility, part 2: validation of         historical exposures.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the validity of a job exposure matrix (JEM) constructed for         the period 1994-1999. Historical exposure estimates (HEE) for the JEM were constructed for all job and year         combinations by applying temporal factors reflecting annual change in area air measurements (1994-1998) to the         personal baseline exposure estimates (BEE) collected in 1999. The JEM was generated for an epidemiologic study to         examine quantitative exposure-response relationships with sensitization and chronic beryllium disease.
Sensitization and chronic beryllium disease at a primary manufacturing facility, part 1: historical         exposure reconstruction.	Previous epidemiologic studies of beryllium sensitization (BeS) and chronic beryllium disease (CBD) have reported inconsistent exposure-response relationships, likely due to exposure misclassification. The objective of this study was to develop historical estimates of size-selective personal exposure to beryllium for an epidemiologic study.
Correlation of aneurysm occlusion with actual metal coverage at neck after implantation of flow-diverting stent in rabbit models.	A remarkable curing rate has been achieved in the treatment of intracranial intractable aneurysms by using flow-diverting stents (FDS). An appropriate metal coverage (MC) of this device influences the hemodynamics of aneurysm significantly but little to branches in vitro. The MC changes after elongation or compression and the actual changes are still unknown in vivo. In this paper, we analyzed the correlation of aneurysm occlusion with actual MC after implantation of FDS in rabbit models.
Sensitization and chronic beryllium disease at a primary manufacturing facility, part 3:         exposure-response among short-term workers.	Exposure-response relations for beryllium sensitization (BeS) and chronic beryllium disease         (CBD) using aerosol mass concentration have been inconsistent, although process-related risks found in most studies         suggest that exposure-dependent risks exist. We examined exposure-response relations using personal exposure         estimates in a beryllium worker cohort with limited work tenure to minimize exposure misclassification.
Healthcare liquid waste management.	The management of healthcare liquid waste is an overlooked problem in Nepal with stern repercussions in terms of damaging the environment and affecting the health of people. This study was carried out to explore the healthcare liquid waste management practices in Kathmandu based central hospitals of Nepal.
Limitations of clinico-histopathological correlation of skin biopsies in leprosy.	Skin biopsies play an important role in diagnosing and classifying different types of leprosy. The aim of this study was to analyse different histologic types of leprosy, to correlate histopathological diagnosis with clinical diagnosis, to study the uniformity of clinical and histological findings in the diagnosis of leprosy and to evaluate difficulties faced during clinicopathological correlation according to Ridley- Jopling classification due to inadequacy of data provided.
Scenario of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in a tertiary care center.	Tuberculosis is a worldwide disease and one of the major health problems of Nepal. Extrapulmonary tuberculosis is increasing all over the world. The main aim of this study was to assess the frequency of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in various organ systems of the body and to assess the pattern of disease in different age groups and gender.
Is the link between anatomical structure and function equally strong at all cognitive levels of processing?	Whereas low-level sensory processes can be linked to macroanatomy with great confidence, the degree to which high-level cognitive processes map onto anatomy is less clear. If function respects anatomy, more accurate intersubject anatomical registration should result in better functional alignment. Here, we use auditory functional magnetic resonance imaging and compare the effectiveness of affine and nonlinear registration methods for aligning anatomy and functional activation across subjects. Anatomical alignment was measured using normalized cross-correlation within functionally defined regions of interest. Functional overlap was assessed using t-statistics from the group analyses and the degree to which group statistics predict high and consistent signal change in individual data sets. In regions related to early stages of auditory processing, nonlinear registration resulted in more accurate anatomical registration and stronger functional overlap among subjects compared with affine. In frontal and temporal areas reflecting high-level processing of linguistic meaning, nonlinear registration also improved the accuracy of anatomical registration. However, functional overlap across subjects was not enhanced in these regions. Therefore, functional organization, relative to anatomy, is more variable in the frontal and temporal areas supporting meaning-based processes than in areas devoted to sensory/perceptual auditory processing. This demonstrates for the first time that functional variability increases systematically between regions supporting lower and higher cognitive processes.
Efficacy of a self-learning station for basic life support refresher training in a hospital:  a randomized controlled trial.	Adult basic life support refresher training using voice feedback manikins has been shown to be feasible, but the superiority of this strategy over instructor-led (IL) refresher training for nurses in a hospital has not been studied in randomized trials.
Radiation exposure of ventilated trauma patients in intensive care:  a retrospective study comparing two time periods.	To describe the cumulative effective dose of radiation that was received during the initial Emergency Department assessment and ICU stay of patients admitted with trauma, who required mechanical ventilation, during two time periods.
The association of prior statin use in septic shock treated with early goal directed therapy.	Previous literature suggests statins may have a therapeutic role in sepsis. No data have examined if statin use may have a positive impact beyond that afforded by early goal directed therapy (EGDT).
Swiss multidisciplinary and multilingual experience of the Advanced Trauma Life Support course:  lessons for Europe.	Courses in the Advanced Trauma Life Support are a well-accepted concept throughout the world for training in the emergency treatment of polytraumatized patients. Switzerland, a multilingual country with a long tradition of multidisciplinary collaboration in trauma care, introduced its first student courses in 1998. Unlike some countries where the courses are attended only by surgeons, instructors and students in Switzerland include surgeons, anaesthetists and physicians from other specialties.
Antidepressant drugs and the response in the placebo group: the real problem lies in our understanding of the issue.	In a recent paper, Horder and colleagues (Horder et al., 2010, J Psychopharmacol 25: 1277-1288) have suggested that the mainproblem in the Kirsch analysis is methodological. We argue that the results are similar irrespective of the method used. In our opinion the data suggest that placebo and drug effects are non-additive: antidepressants act independently of depression severity, while the placebo effect is present only in milder cases. While the response in the placebo group is due to unstable 'noise' and 'artefacts', the medication effect is reliable, valid and stable.
Outcomes from implementing early goal-directed therapy for severe sepsis and septic shock :  a 4-year observational cohort study.	The aim of this study was to determine the outcome of patients with severe sepsis and septic shock who did and did not receive early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) in the emergency department (ED). The primary end point was the in-hospital mortality rate. The secondary end points were lengths of stay in the ICU and in hospital.
Agreement between axillary, tympanic, and mid-forehead body temperature measurements in adult emergency department patients.	To assess the agreement between noncontact infrared thermometer (noncontact) with infrared tympanic thermometer (tympanic) and electronic axillary thermometer (axillary) in an adult emergency department population.
Heart rate variability and endothelial function after sleep deprivation and recovery sleep among male         shift and non-shift workers.	Endothelial dysfunction and alterations in heart rate variability (HRV) as well as sleep deprivation and shift work have been associated with cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to compare HRV and endothelial function among shift and matched non-shift workers in response to total sleep deprivation and recovery sleep under identical laboratory settings.
The effectiveness of patient control analgesia in the treatment of acute traumatic pain in the emergency department:  a randomized controlled trial.	Pain seems to be one of the most frequent complaints in the emergency department, however pain control is often suboptimal as seen by many audits. We conducted a study to find out whether the use of patient control analgesia (PCA) is effective in controlling acute pain in the emergency department
The association of infrapatellar fat pad oedema with patellar maltracking: a case-control study.	To look for any association between oedema in the superolateral portion of the infrapatellar fat pad and patellar maltracking.
Religiosity and psychological well-being.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between religiosity and psychological well-being in a sample of Greek Orthodox Christians. Previous research has documented that personal devotion, participation in religious activities, and religious salience are positively associated with different criteria of psychological well-being. The sample (83 men and 280 women) with an age range from 18 to 48 years, was strongly skewed with respect to sex (77% female) and education level (95% were university students or university graduates). Religiosity was operationalized as church attendance, frequency of prayer and belief salience. In addition, a single item referring to beliefs about God was used. Depression, anxiety, loneliness, and general life satisfaction were selected as dependent variables because they reflect important dimensions of psychological well-being. Preliminary analyses showed that sex was significantly related to the three religiosity variables (church attendance, frequency of prayer, belief salience), with women being more religious than men. Consistent with previous research, correlations suggested that church attendance and belief salience were associated with better life satisfaction. The results of hierarchical regression analysis showed a significant positive association between anxiety and frequency of personal prayer. Finally, personal beliefs about God did not seem to relate to any of the psychological well-being measures. The results of the present study partially support the hypothesized association between religiosity and psychological well-being.
Metacognition in Taiwan: students' calibration of comprehension and performance.	Researchers have increasingly investigated the role played by metacognition in students' learning and performance. Metacognition is comprised of metacognitive knowledge and metacognitive experiences, and both components of metacognition are viewed as being important to learning and performance in academic settings. Metacognitive experiences involve, in part, students' awareness of progress on cognitive tasks. Such awareness is critical to learning, for students may fail to spend additional time reviewing or studying material if they believe they have understood the material adequately. In the present study we examined Taiwanese students' ability to assess their comprehension of passages following reading as well as their ability to predict the number of questions they would be able to answer about passage content. Following an actual test on the material, students were asked to assess how many questions they felt they answered correctly about a passage (postdiction). Students were able to predict comprehension and test performance at better than chance levels and were more accurate at postdiction than prediction. Students with better performance, as measured by comprehension test scores, were better at both prediction and postdiction of comprehension performance. However, students' self-assessments of general calibration ability did not relate to their test performance. The metacomprehension skills of Taiwanese students were quite similar to those previously found for western students, but also diverged in some respects.
Prevalence and correlates of substance use among school children in six African countries.	An increasing trend of noncommunicable diseases is a worldwide phenomenon, also including the developing countries. Few studies focus on adolescents' substance use in relation to mental distress and protective factors in African countries. The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence and correlates (mental distress and protective factors) of substance use among school-going adolescents in six African countries. The sample included 20,765 students aged from 13 to 15 years from six African countries (Kenya, Namibia, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe), chosen by a two-stage cluster sample design to represent all students in grades 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 in each country. The measure used was part of the Global School-Based Health Survey (GSHS) questionnaire, including various domains of health behaviour. Results indicate a prevalence of 12.6% tobacco use (past month), 6.6% risky alcohol use (two or more per day for at least 20 days or more in the past month), and 10.5% of illicit drug use (three or more times ever) in school-going adolescents in six African countries. School truancy, loneliness, sleeping problems, sadness, suicidal ideation, suicide plans, and poverty were associated with substance use (tobacco, alcohol, illicit drugs), while school attendance and parental supervision and connectedness were protective factors for substance use, and peer support protective for tobacco use. It is concluded that tobacco use, risky drinking and illicit drug use were common, clustered together and were associated with school truancy, mental distress, and lack of parental and peer support among adolescent African school children. These findings stress the need for early and integrated prevention programmes.
Return to work after early part-time sick leave due to musculoskeletal disorders: a randomized controlled         trial.	The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of early part-time sick leave on return to work (RTW) and sickness absence among patients with musculoskeletal disorders.
Feeling severely affected by multiple sclerosis: what does this mean?	The situation for people feeling severely affected by Multiple Sclerosis (MS) remains largely unexamined and the term 'severe MS' is not clearly defined.
The moderating effects of gender on the associations between multidimensional hostility and psychosomatic symptoms: a Chinese case.	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of gender on the relationship between multidimensional hostility and psychosomatic symptoms in Chinese culture. The participants in this study were 398 Chinese college students (40% female) recruited from Taiwan. Four dimensions of multidimensional hostility-hostility cognition, hostility affect, expressive hostility behavior, and suppressive hostility behavior-were measured by the Chinese Hostility Inventory. After controlling for the effects of depression and anxiety, the results of path analysis revealed that the multidimensional hostility predicted psychosomatic symptoms directly, and predicted psychosomatic symptoms indirectly through negative health behavior. Furthermore, gender moderated the relationships between multidimensional hostility and health outcomes. Expressive hostility exacerbated psychosomatic symptom in females but buffered it in males, while affective hostility exacerbated psychosomatic symptoms in males. Additionally, suppressive hostility behavior was correlated to psychosomatic symptoms indirectly through negative health behavior in females. Moreover, expressive hostility was correlated to psychosomatic symptoms indirectly through negative health behavior more in males than in females.
Muscle fat-fraction and mapping in Duchenne muscular dystrophy: evaluation of disease distribution and correlation with clinical assessments. Preliminary experience.	To examine the usefulness of dual-echo dual-flip angle spoiled gradient recalled (SPGR) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique in quantifying muscle fat fraction (MFF) of pelvic and thighs muscles as a marker of disease severity in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), by correlating MFF calculation with clinical assessments. We also tried to identify characteristic patterns of disease distribution.
Absolute blood eosinophil count and 1-year mortality risk following hospitalization with acute heart failure.	In acute heart failure (AHF), hemoglobin, red cell distribution width, mean platelet volume, leukocytes, and relative lymphocyte count have been associated with mortality. It is not known whether absolute blood neutrophil, eosinophil, and monocyte counts are mortality predictors.
A case-crossover study of work-related acute traumatic hand injuries in the People's Republic of         China.	The aim of this study was to quantify potential transient risk factors for occupational acute hand         injury among hospitalized workers in the People's Republic of China (PRC).
Tossing and turning--insomnia in relation to occupational stress, rumination, fatigue, and well-being.	This study of a large and heterogeneous sample of 5210 daytime employees was designed to shed         more light on the work effort-recovery mechanism by examining the cross-sectional relations between subjective         sleep quality and (i) psychosocial work characteristics, (ii) work-related rumination, (iii) fatigue after work, and         (iv) affective well-being at work and work pleasure.
Application and synthesis of statistical evidence in medical negligence.	Statistical evidence has direct effects on the practice of medicine and the standards set by the profession. In turn, this has implications in medical negligence, particularly with respect to the standard of care expected of health care providers. In this article, we investigate the role that statistical evidence plays in the interaction between medicine and law when appropriate medical care is considered. A quantitative appraisal of such evidence is suggested in order to maintain the high objective professional standards demanded by both medicine and law.
Correlating multimodal physical sensor information with biological analysis in ultra endurance cycling.	The sporting domain has traditionally been used as a testing ground for new technologies which subsequently make their way into the public domain. This includes sensors. In this article a range of physical and biological sensors deployed in a 64 hour ultra-endurance non-stop cycling race are described. A novel algorithm to estimate the energy expenditure while cycling and resting during the event are outlined. Initial analysis in this noisy domain of "sensors in the field" are very encouraging and represent a first with respect to cycling.
Physical inactivity is a risk factor for physical activity-related injuries in children.	To describe the risk factors associated with injuries resulting from physical education (PE), leisure time physical activity (leisure time PA) and sports in 9-12-year-old children.
Spatial distribution of the cereal leaf beetle (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) in wheat.	A 2-yr study was conducted in wheat fields in South Carolina involving weekly sampling of cereal leaf beetle, Oulema melanopus (L.). In each of the six fields of this study, temporal patterns showed two distinct peaks in March and in May of adult O. melanopus. Populations decreased as wheat plants matured. In 2009, larval populations had one peak in April in between the two adult peaks. The χ(2) statistics for observed and Poisson predicted distributions of O. melanopus indicated nonrandom distribution for adults and larvae. In addition, the values of I(D) were >1 for adults and larvae in both years across sampling dates. These results indicate that the sampling distributions of both adult and larval populations of O. melanopus were aggregated. Slopes of Taylor power's law (b) and patchiness regressions (β) were significantly (P < 0.05) different than one in all cases, except for b in 2008 for adults. Across sampling dates, the distance from field border had a significant effect on adult O. melanopus in both years, but not on larval O. melanopus. Densities of adult O. melanopus were greatest at 0 m (the field edge), and decreased at 5-25 m from the field edge. The inverted distance weighted interpolation method showed considerable levels of spatial variability in densities within fields. High densities along the edge of wheat fields suggests that localized control methods in wheat may be effective in reducing migration of O. melanopus and damage in corn, Zea mays L.
Income inequality and obesity prevalence among OECD countries.	Using recent pooled data from the World Health Organization Global Infobase and the World Factbook compiled by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States, this study assesses the relation between income inequality and obesity prevalence among 31 OECD countries through a series of bivariate and multivariate linear regressions. The United States and Mexico well lead OECD countries in both obesity prevalence and income inequality. A sensitivity analysis suggests that the inclusion or exclusion of these two extreme cases can fundamentally change the findings. When the two countries are included, the results reveal a positive correlation between income inequality and obesity prevalence. This correlation is more salient among females than among males. Income inequality alone is associated with 16% and 35% of the variations in male and female obesity rates, respectively, across OECD countries in 2010. Higher levels of income inequality in the 2005-2010 period were associated with a more rapid increase in obesity prevalence from 2002 to 2010. These associations, however, virtually disappear when the US and Mexico have been excluded from the analysis. Findings from this study underscore the importance of assessing the impact of extreme cases on the relation between income inequality and health outcomes. The potential pathways from income inequality to the alarmingly high rates of obesity in the cases of the US and Mexico warrant further research.
Updating clinical practice recommendations: is it worthwhile and when?	Keeping clinical practice recommendations up-to-date with a continually evolving evidence base presents challenges. Resources required to update recommendations compete with those needed to evaluate newer treatments.
Substance abuse and criminal thinking: testing the countervailing, mediation, and specificity hypotheses.	The purpose of this study was to determine (a) which of 2 dimensions of criminal thinking (proactive and/or reactive) correlates with prior substance abuse; (b) whether criminal thinking mediates the relationship between prior substance abuse and recidivism; (c) if a direct relationship exists between specific drugs of abuse and specific criminal thinking styles. First, the reconstructed Proactive (Prc) and Reactive (Rrc) Criminal Thinking scores from the Psychological Inventory of Criminal Thinking Styles (PICTS; Walters, 1995) were correlated with a dichotomous measure of prior substance abuse and a continuous measure of the number of substances abused in a sample of 2877 male federal prisoners (age: M = 34.96, SD = 9.89, range = 18-84; race: 63.6% Black, 17.3% White, 17.6% Hispanic, 1.4% other). The results indicated that only the Rrc score correlated significantly with prior substance abuse when the effect of the alternative measure (Prc in the case of Rrc and Rrc in the case of the Prc) was controlled through partial correlations. Second, reactive criminal thinking was found to mediate the relationship between a history of prior substance abuse and subsequent recidivism in a subsample of 1101 inmates who were released from prison during a 1- to 76-month follow-up. Third, both specific (alcohol with cutoff; marijuana with cognitive indolence) and global (heroin, cocaine, and amphetamine with cutoff, cognitive indolence, and discontinuity) drug-criminal thinking correlations were obtained. These results suggest that reactive criminal thinking plays a potentially important role in the drug-crime relationship.
Informing the judgments of fingerprint analysts using quality metric and statistical assessment tools.	The aim of this research was to evaluate how fingerprint analysts would incorporate information from newly developed tools into their decision making processes. Specifically, we assessed effects using the following: (1) a quality tool to aid in the assessment of the clarity of the friction ridge details, (2) a statistical tool to provide likelihood ratios representing the strength of the corresponding features between compared fingerprints, and (3) consensus information from a group of trained fingerprint experts. The measured variables for the effect on examiner performance were the accuracy and reproducibility of the conclusions against the ground truth (including the impact on error rates) and the analyst accuracy and variation for feature selection and comparison. The results showed that participants using the consensus information from other fingerprint experts demonstrated more consistency and accuracy in minutiae selection. They also demonstrated higher accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity in the decisions reported. The quality tool also affected minutiae selection (which, in turn, had limited influence on the reported decisions); the statistical tool did not appear to influence the reported decisions.
Impact of chronic diseases on work ability in ageing firefighters.	The aim of this study was to study the impact of chronic diseases on work ability in different age groups of Dutch firefighters.
Practical aspects of radioligand binding.	Radioligand binding has been used for many years to identify new binding sites, characterize receptors, and identify novel ligands. Although various techniques have been developed to improve the efficiency of preparing the biological source of the receptors and for detecting bound radioligand, the principles of the assays remain the same. This unit reviews theory and provides examples of the parameters that can be calculated from radioligand binding data to characterize ligand-receptor interactions. The important aspects of assay development and validation that allow meaningful interpretation are discussed. The selection of a radioligand, buffer and other assay components is critical to developing a useful binding assay. The nature of the binding interaction can also be probed by varying assay conditions.
Evaluation of compound activity against hepatitis C virus in replicon systems.	Described in this unit are protocols for evaluation of new chemical entities for activity against hepatitis C virus (HCV) using HCV replicon systems. While agents designed to target NS3 protease, NS3 helicase, and NS5B RNA polymerase can be evaluated in biochemical assays, it is important to confirm their inhibitory effect on HCV RNA replication using HCV replicon systems, especially since replication involves many components besides these enzymes. Screening of compound libraries using replicon systems has led to the discovery of replication inhibitors, which act through different viral targets.
Lactulose hydrogen breath test and functional symptoms in pediatric patients.	The role of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) in functional digestive disorders in the pediatric population is a matter of controversy, since methods currently used to establish this diagnosis are difficult to interpret. The aim of this work was to analyze the characteristics of the lactulose H(2) breath test (LHBT) in children with functional gastrointestinal symptoms according to more recent criteria.
Factors influencing health care utilization in older Hispanics with diabetes along the Texas-Mexico border.	Little is known about predictors of health care utilization for older Hispanics with chronic conditions. This study aimed to determine: (1) the level of health care access for older Hispanics with type 2 diabetes living in a US-Mexico border area; and (2) personal and health correlates to health care utilization (ie, physician visits, eye care, emergency room [ER] use). This was a cross-sectional study based on a community assessment conducted at a clinic, senior centers, and colonias. Colonias are impoverished neighborhoods with substandard living conditions along the US-Mexico border. Hispanics living in colonias are one of the most disadvantaged minority groups in the United States. The study sample consisted of 249 Hispanics age 60 years and older who have type 2 diabetes. Descriptive analyses, multiple linear regression, and generalized linear models were conducted. Older age (P = 0.02) and affordability of physician fees (P = 0.02) were significant correlates to more frequent physician visits. Factors significantly associated with eye care were being insured (P = 0.001) and reporting high cholesterol (P = 0.005). ER use was significantly associated with younger age (60-64 years old; P = 0.03) and suffering from hypertension (P = 0.02). Those who received diabetes education (P = 0.04) were less likely to use the ER. Identifying patterns of health care utilization services in aging underserved minorities who are disproportionately affected by diabetes may lead to culturally appropriate preventive practices and timely access to health care. Adequate health care access can decrease or delay the onset of diabetes complications in older Hispanics with type 2 diabetes who live along the US-Mexico border.
The distinction between tapping and circle drawing with and without tactile feedback: an examination of the sources of timing variance.	An internal clock-like process has been implicated in the control of rhythmic movements performed for short (250-2,000 ms) time scales. However, in the past decade, it has been claimed that a clock-like central timing mechanism is not required for smooth cyclical movements. The distinguishing characteristic delineating clock-like (event) from non-clock-like (emergent) timing is thought to be the kinematic differences between tapping (discrete-like) and circle drawing (smooth). In the archetypal event-timed task (tapping), presence of perceptual events is confounded with the discrete kinematics of movement (table contact). Recently, it has been suggested that discrete perceptual events help participants synchronize with a metronome. However, whether discrete tactile events directly elicit event timing has yet to be determined. In the present study, we examined whether a tactile event inserted into the circle drawing timing task could elicit event timing in a self-paced (continuation) timing task. For a majority of participants, inserting an event into the circle drawing task elicited timing behaviour consistent with the idea that an internal timekeeper was employed (a correlation of circle drawing with tapping). Additionally, some participants exhibited characteristics of event timing in the typically emergently timed circle drawing task. We conclude that the use of event timing can be influenced by the insertion of perceptual events, and it also exhibits persistence over time and over tasks within certain individuals.
Work ability index (WAI) and its association with psychosocial factors in one of the petrochemical industries in Iran.	In recent decades, work ability index (WAI) has been a common practical tool to measure individuals' work ability in many European, Asian and South American countries. However, there is no study concerning work ability in Iran. The aim of this study was to determine the work ability index in an Iranian petrochemical job setting and to examine its relationship with psychosocial factors.
Sorafenib for hepatocellular carcinoma patients beyond Milan criteria after orthotopic liver transplantation: a case control study.	Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is one of the most effective treatments for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) within the Milan criteria. However, for patients beyond these criteria, the recurrence rate is higher and the prognosis is worse. Sorafenib is the only drug showing survival benefits in advanced HCC patients; however, its role in patients beyond the Milan criteria after OLT remains unclear and requires further investigation.
Pupils with special educational needs in basic education schools and teachers' sickness absences--a register-linkage study.	We examined whether having a high percentage of pupils with special educational needs (SEN) in         basic education schools increases the risk of sickness absence among teachers and whether this risk is dependent on the         pupil-teacher ratio (PTR), an indicator of teacher resources at school.
When experts disagreed, who was correct? A comparison of PCL-R scores from independent raters and opposing forensic experts.	Researchers recently found that Psychopathy Checklist-Revised (PCL-R; Hare, 2003) scores reported by state experts were much higher than those reported by defense experts in sexually violent predator cases pursued for civil commitment (Murrie, Boccaccini, Johnson, & Janke, 2008), which raised the question of which scores were more accurate. In this study, two independent raters rescored the PCL-R from file review for 44 offenders from that sample who had opposing evaluator scores (allegiance cases) and 44 who had state expert, but not defense expert, scores (comparison cases). The independent raters agreed with one another in their scoring of the allegiance and comparison cases (Intraclass Correlation Coefficient [ICC] ICCA,1 = .95), but they disagreed with both state (ICCA,1 = .29) and defense (ICCA,1 = .14) experts in the allegiance cases. Agreement was stronger between state experts and independent raters for the comparison cases (ICCA,1 = .63), but the independent raters assigned significantly higher PCL-R scores than experts for both the allegiance and comparison cases. These findings suggest that offenders who were selected for rescoring by the defense may have been more difficult to score. Findings also raise questions about the extent to which PCL-R scores based on correctional file review only are comparable to those based on file and interview.
High serum levels of transforming growth factor β1 are associated with increased cortical thickness in cingulate and right frontal areas in healthy subjects.	Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) is a cytokine having multiple functions in the central nervous system such as promoting repair mechanisms in degenerative diseases and stroke. To date, however, its neuroprotective effects in non-disease conditions have not been studied
Disappearance of association in diabetic patients on hemodialysis between anemia and mortality risk: the Japan dialysis outcomes and practice pattern study.	We previously demonstrated that anemia was not associated with mortality in hemodialysis patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Since diabetes mellitus (DM) accelerates CVD, the influence of DM on the relationship between anemia and mortality was examined using the data obtained from 1,385 DM patients and 2,583 non-DM hemodialysis patients recruited into the Dialysis Outcomes Practice Pattern Study in Japan (J-DOPPS). When all patients were stratified into four groups on their hematocrit levels, mortality rate was significantly and steadily lower in the subgroups with the higher levels of hematocrit by the Kaplan-Meier method (p = 0.0003 by log-rank test). When DM and non-DM patients were analyzed separately, a significant association of lower hematocrit levels with higher mortality disappeared in DM patients (p = 0.6280), in contrast with its retention in non-DM counterparts (p < 0.0001). Multivariable-adjusted Cox proportional hazards models demonstrated a significant association between hematocrit with all-cause mortality in non-DM patients after adjustment for age, gender, BMI, hemodialysis duration, SBP, DBP, albumin, total cholesterol, calcium, phosphorus, and intact PTH (p = 0.046), whereas this association disappeared in DM patients in the same model (p = 0.583). In conclusion, these results suggested that the association between anemia and higher mortality disappeared in DM hemodialysis patients, in contrast with non-DM counterparts.
Detection of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato in endomyocardial biopsy specimens in individuals with recent-onset dilated cardiomyopathy.	Recent studies in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) have detected the genome of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato (BBSL) in endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) specimens using a qualitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), suggesting a causal link between Lyme disease and DCM in areas in which Lyme disease is endemic. We aimed to study this relationship using a comprehensive molecular analysis detecting BBSL in EMB samples.
Bad statistical practice in pharmacology (and other basic biomedical disciplines): you probably don't know P.	Statistical analysis is universally used in the interpretation of the results of basic biomedical research, being expected by referees and readers alike. Its role in helping researchers to make reliable inference from their work and its contribution to the scientific process cannot be doubted, but can be improved. There is a widespread and pervasive misunderstanding of P-values that limits their utility as a guide to inference, and a change in the manner in which P-values are specified and interpreted will lead to improved outcomes. This paper explains the distinction between Fisher's P-values, which are local indices of evidence against the null hypothesis in the results of a particular experiment, and Neyman-Pearson α levels, which are global rates of false positive errors from unrelated experiments taken as an aggregate. The vast majority of papers published in pharmacological journals specify P-values, either as exact-values or as being less than a value (usually 0.05), but they are interpreted in a hybrid manner that detracts from their Fisherian role as indices of evidence without gaining the control of false positive and false negative error rate offered by a strict Neyman-Pearson approach. An informed choice between those approaches offers substantial advantages to the users of statistical tests over the current accidental hybrid approach.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy in patients with permanent atrial fibrillation. Is it mandatory to ablate the atrioventricular junction to obtain a good response?	Current guidelines recommend atrioventricular junction (AVJ) ablation in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) treated with cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). Our study compared the CRT response of patients in sinus rhythm (SR) vs. AF.
Abnormal functional brain asymmetry in depression: evidence of biologic commonality between major depression and dysthymia.	Prior studies have found abnormalities of functional brain asymmetry in patients having a major depressive disorder (MDD). This study aimed to replicate findings of reduced right hemisphere advantage for perceiving dichotic complex tones in depressed patients, and to determine whether patients having "pure" dysthymia show the same abnormality of perceptual asymmetry as MDD. It also examined gender differences in lateralization, and the extent to which abnormalities of perceptual asymmetry in depressed patients are dependent on gender. Unmedicated patients having either a MDD (n=96) or "pure" dysthymic disorder (n=42) and healthy controls (n=114) were tested on dichotic fused-words and complex-tone tests. Patient and control groups differed in right hemisphere advantage for complex tones, but not left hemisphere advantage for words. Reduced right hemisphere advantage for tones was equally present in MDD and dysthymia, but was more evident among depressed men than depressed women. Also, healthy men had greater hemispheric asymmetry than healthy women for both words and tones, whereas this gender difference was not seen for depressed patients. Dysthymia and MDD share a common abnormality of hemispheric asymmetry for dichotic listening.
Perceptions of HIV risk among internet-using, HIV-negative barebacking men.	The current study examines the risk perceptions of HIV-negative men who have sex with men (MSM) who use the Internet to seek unprotected sex. The research questions include the following: How great do these men perceive their HIV risk to be? Are their perceptions based on HIV knowledge or related to their risk behaviors? What factors are associated with greater/lesser perceived risk? Results revealed that more than half of the men believed that they had no or only a slight chance of contracting HIV. Risk perceptions were not related to HIV knowledge or to involvement in HIV risk practices. Four factors were identified as being associated with greater perception of HIV risk: self-identity as a sexual "bottom," having sex while high, greater use of bareback-focused websites, and younger age. Internet-using HIV-negative men who have sex with men tend to underestimate their risk for acquiring HIV, and interventions need to help them accurately assess their risk.
Psychological distress among employed fathers: associations with family structure, work quality, and the work-family interface.	The aim of this study was to compare levels of psychological distress in employed single fathers relative to partnered fathers and to explore the role of psychosocial job quality, work-family conflict, and work-family facilitation as explanations for differences in distress. The data were collected from a cross-sectional telephone survey conducted in a Canadian city. Participants were 486 employed fathers with children living in the household. In addition to experiencing higher levels of psychological distress than partnered fathers (p = .057), single fathers reported greater work-family conflict, poorer work quality, and lower family-to-work facilitation. Adjusting for the strain-based work-family conflict variables in the regression analysis resulted in the largest reduction to the association between partner status and psychological distress. Future research employing a longitudinal design and subject to lower selection biases is required to tease out the interrelationship between these exposures and to point to the most appropriate policies to support employed single fathers.
The implications of increasing age on erectile dysfunction.	Erectile dysfunction (ED) has long been correlated with psychological well-being. More recently, an understanding has developed of ED being, in some cases, a vascular condition of the penile artery. Given the narrowness of the penile artery, a small amount of atherosclerosis may result in ED before any other manifestations are evident, making ED a useful marker for other vascular conditions with potentially greater clinical implications. In light of this, possible underreporting of ED takes on added significance. A questionnaire regarding ED prevalence and management was distributed for self-administration to men in the waiting room of primary care clinics; the data were analyzed with a focus on the relationship between ED and age. The study had a remarkable response rate of >95%. The prevalence of ED in the ≥70-year age-group was 77%, compared with 61% in the 40- to 69-year age-group (p = .0001). ED correlated linearly with age (R(2) = .80, p < .0001). Among those who had ED, more than half had not discussed it with any provider; the likelihood of discussing ED did increase with the reported severity of symptoms (p < .0001). Older men had more severe ED than younger men (p < .0001). Furthermore, 72% of men with a history of ED were never treated. Younger men were more likely to be treated than older men (p = .004). Given the potential implications of underreporting ED, and the willingness of the men in this study to complete the questionnaire, further work may be merited on new models for ED assessment and follow-up.
Emotion regulation deficits in eating disorders: a marker of eating pathology or general psychopathology?	Preliminary evidence indicates that individuals with eating disorders (ED) show emotion regulation (ER) difficulties. However, it is yet unclear whether different types of ED differ in their ER profile and whether certain ER difficulties are specific for ED or rather a transdiagnostic factor. Twenty women with anorexia nervosa (AN), 18 with bulimia nervosa (BN), 25 with binge eating disorder (BED), 15 with borderline personality disorder (BPD), 16 with major depressive disorder (MDD) and 42 female healthy controls (HC) were administered the Emotion Regulation Questionnaire, the Inventory of Cognitive Affect Regulation Strategies, the Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale and the Affect Intensity Measure. The ED groups reported significantly higher levels of emotion intensity, lower acceptance of emotions, less emotional awareness and clarity, more self-reported ER problems as well as decreased use of functional and increased use of dysfunctional emotion regulation strategies when compared to HC. No significant differences between the ED groups emerged for most ER variables. However, there were indications that the BED group may show a slightly more adaptive pattern of ER than the two other ED groups. As a whole, all clinical groups performed very similar on most ER variables and reported more difficulties regulating their emotions than HC. The findings suggest that ER difficulties are not linked to a particular diagnostic category. Instead, ER difficulties appear to be a transdiagnostic risk and/or maintenance factor rather than being disorder-specific.
Different patterns of abnormal gamma oscillatory activity in unipolar and bipolar disorder patients during an implicit emotion task.	This study investigates the distinct patterns of local and long-range gamma oscillations between patients with bipolar disorder (BD) and major depressive disorder (MDD). Twenty BD patients, twenty MDD patients, and twenty normal controls participated in this study. For each participant, the event-related magnetoencephalographic responses while performing an implicit emotional task were recorded and processed with time-frequency analysis. Compared to normal controls, the BD patients exhibited the gamma power decease at the right frontal and prefrontal regions and yet gamma power increase at the right posterior temporal region. The abnormal long-range gamma oscillation between the right frontal and parietal-occipital region was also found. These results indicate that the BD patients may have hyperactivity in perceptual binding of emotional features and tend to be oversensitive to facial features. On the other hand, MDD patients displayed increased early gamma activity at the left anterior temporal region, which may imply their hyperactivated binding process of emotional features at corticolimbic regions. The distinct alterations of gamma patterns between the BD and MDD patients implicate that their impairments of binding processes are located at different regions. Gamma activity in the parietal and left posterior temporal regions may be a potential index to differentiate BD patients from MDD patients.
Correlations between diffusion-weighted imaging and breast cancer biomarkers.	We evaluated whether the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) provided by diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) varies according to biological features in breast cancer.
A lack of association between elevated serum levels of S100B protein and autoimmunity in autistic children.	S100B is a calcium-binding protein that is produced primarily by astrocytes. Increased serum S100B protein levels reflect neurological damage. Autoimmunity may have a role in the pathogenesis of autism in some patients. Autoantibodies may cross the blood-brain barrier and combine with brain tissue antigens, forming immune complexes and resulting in neurological damage. We are the first to investigate the relationship between serum levels of S100B protein, a marker of neuronal damage, and antiribosomal P protein antibodies in autistic children.
Schizotypy trait and striatal dopamine receptors in healthy volunteers.	Individuals with schizotypal features exhibit cognitive, perceptual and social deficits that are similar to but less prominent than those seen in patients with schizophrenia. Dopaminergic hyperactivity in the striatum has been related to the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, and brain-imaging studies of dopamine uptake in the striatum are thought to be linked to the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the increased availability of striatal dopamine (DA) D(2/3) receptors is related to elevated levels of schizotypal features in healthy individuals. The Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) was administered to 55 healthy volunteers. The availability of their striatal DA D(2/3) receptors was analysed using [(123)I] iodobenzamide single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Although the SPQ total scores showed no correlation with the availability of total (left and right) striatal DA D(2) receptors, the SPQ disorganised subscale scores were positively correlated with the availability of right striatal DA D(2/3) receptors. Our findings demonstrated that the availability of striatal DA D(2/3) receptors may be associated with schizotypal features in healthy volunteers.
Challenges in the use of in silico tools for predicting peptides binding to HLA-class II molecules of HCV E1, E2, and P7.	The application of in silico tools for the development of T-cell vaccines is crucial. Yet, due to myriad of polymorphisms of human T-lymphocytic antigen challenges, such therapeutic opportunities present unique roadblocks. There is an obvious advantage in using immunoinformatics (i.e., significantly decreasing cost related to laboratory expenses). A previous publication looked at random binding and nonbinding peptides in order to test the practicality of using such in silico tools to obtain possible immunogenic peptides. The present in silico study applied the same basic approaches to an applicable problem that was to identify promiscuous peptide vaccine candidates for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. The data sets used, included the proteins HCV E1, E2 and P7 as the binders (non-self antigens) and the GAD65 and ICA69, which have an association with diabetes, as non-binders (self-antigens). The in silico tools utilized were ProPred, MHC2PRED, and RANKPEP. The resulting differences were identifiable in each of the statistical parameters examined. Variations in the outcomes were evident by the dissimilarities found among the major indices of evaluation Sensitivity, Specificity, Accuracy, Positive Predictive Value (PPV), Negative Predictive Value (NPV) and Matthews's correlation coefficient (MCC) of the percentages of the predicted promiscuous peptides to HLA-DRB1*0101, *0301, and *0401. The conclusion from this study indicates that more work needs to be done in order to enhance the predictability of programs for the identification of peptide vaccine candidates for HCV. Such programs should not be solely relied upon without in vitro assay verification.
Clinical pilot study for the automatic segmentation and recognition of abdominal adipose tissue compartments from MRI data.	In the diagnosis and risk assessment of obesity, both the amount and distribution of adipose tissue compartments are critical factors. We present a hybrid method for the quantitative measurement of human body fat compartments.
Bias and imprecision in posture percentile variables estimated from short exposure samples.	Upper arm postures are believed to be an important risk determinant for musculoskeletal disorder development in the neck and shoulders. The 10th and 90th percentiles of the angular elevation distribution have been reported in many studies as measures of neutral and extreme postural exposures, and variation has been quantified by the 10th-90th percentile range. Further, the 50th percentile is commonly reported as a measure of "average" exposure. These four variables have been estimated using samples of observed or directly measured postures, typically using sampling durations between 5 and 120 min.
Decreased cortical complexity in methamphetamine abusers.	This study aimed to investigate if methamphetamine (MA) abusers exhibit alterations in complexity of the electroencephalogram (EEG) and to determine if these possible alterations are associated with their abuse patterns. EEGs were recorded from 48 former MA-dependent males and 20 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects. Approximate Entropy (ApEn), an information-theoretical measure of irregularity, of the EEGs was estimated to quantify the degree of cortical complexity. The ApEn values in MA abusers were significantly lower than those of healthy subjects in most of the cortical regions, indicating decreased cortical complexity of MA abusers, which may be associated with impairment in specialization and integration of cortical activities owing to MA abuse. Moreover, ApEn values exhibited significant correlations with the clinical factors including abuse patterns, symptoms of psychoses, and their concurrent drinking and smoking habits. These findings provide insights into abnormal information processing in MA abusers and suggest that ApEn of EEG recordings may be used as a potential supplementary tool for quantitative diagnosis of MA abuse. This is the first investigation to assess the "severity-dependent dynamical complexity" of EEG patterns in former MA abusers and their associations with the subjects' abuse patterns and other clinical measures.
Comparing factor analytic models of the DSM-IV personality disorders.	There is little agreement about the latent factor structure of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) personality disorders (PDs). Factor analytic studies over the past 2 decades have yielded different results, in part reflecting differences in factor analytic technique, the measure used to assess the PDs, and the changing DSM criteria. In this study, we explore the latent factor structure of the DSM (4th ed.; IV) PDs in a sample of 1200 psychiatric outpatients evaluated with the Structured Interview for DSM-IV PDs (B. Pfohl, N. Blum, & M. Zimmerman, 1997). We first evaluated 2 a priori models of the PDs with confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), reflecting their inherent organization in the DSM-IV: a 3-factor model and a 10-factor model. Fit statistics did not suggest that these models yielded an adequate fit. We then evaluated the latent structure with exploratory factor analysis (EFA). Multiple solutions produced more statistically and theoretically reasonable results, as well as providing clinically useful findings. On the basis of fit statistics and theory, 3 models were evaluated further--the 4-, 5-, and 10-factor models. The 10-factor model, which did not resemble the 10-factor model of the CFA, was determined to be the strongest of all 3 models. Future research should use contemporary methods of evaluating factor analytic results in order to more thoroughly compare various factor solutions.
Association of comorbid anxiety with social functioning in school-age children with and without attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).	Although attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is frequently comorbid with disruptive behavior disorders, less is known about ADHD and comorbid anxiety. To improve understanding about the association of anxiety and social functioning, we studied 223 6 to 9 year-old ethnically diverse boys and girls (M=7.4 years) with and without ADHD. According to parents, children with ADHD and anxiety (n=46) and ADHD only (n=71) were consistently less socially competent than comparison children (i.e., no anxiety and ADHD: n=80) and children with anxiety only (n=26), who did not differ from one another. A similar pattern emerged for teacher ratings where youth with ADHD only and ADHD with anxiety exhibited the most social problems, but they did not differ from each other. These data suggest that comorbid anxiety does not exacerbate social dysfunction among 6 to 9 year-old children with ADHD. We consider findings within a developmental psychopathology framework to further understand social development in children with ADHD and anxiety.
The cognitive profile of aripiprazole differs from that of other atypical antipsychotics in schizophrenia patients.	We investigated the effects of the atypical antipsychotics risperidone, olanzapine, and aripiprazole on the cognitive functions of Japanese patients with schizophrenia with respect to dosage amounts and dosing schedules. We performed a cross-sectional survey using the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia - Japanese Language Version (BACS-J) to evaluate the neurocognitive functions of 101 schizophrenic patients who took the same dose of one of the three aforementioned antipsychotics for at least 3 months. The BACS-J composite score correlated negatively with the prescribed dosages of risperidone and olanzapine. In contrast, we did not find a correlation between the BACS-J composite score and the prescribed dosage of aripiprazole. Moreover, the primary scores for verbal learning, motor function, and attention and processing speed were significantly lower among the patients who were taking the prescribed dosage of risperidone. The scores for verbal learning and motor function were also significantly lower when correlated with the prescribed dosage of olanzapine. We did not find a correlation between any of the primary scores on the BACS-J and the prescribed dosage of aripiprazole. In fact, the results suggest there is no linear relationship between the dose of aripiprazole and cognitive impairment, which may be due to its unique pharmacological profile.
Differential relationships of impulsivity or antisocial symptoms on P50, N100, or P200 auditory sensory gating in controls and antisocial personality disorder.	Limited information is available on the relationship between antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) and early filtering, or gating, of information, even though this could contribute to the repeatedly reported impairment in ASPD of higher-order information processing. In order to investigate early filtering in ASPD, we compared electrophysiological measures of auditory sensory gating assessed by the paired-click paradigm in males with ASPD (n = 37) to healthy controls (n = 28). Stimulus encoding was measured by P50, N100, and P200 auditory evoked potentials; auditory sensory gating (ASG) was measured by a reduction in amplitude of evoked potentials following click repetition. Effects were studied of co-existing past alcohol or drug use disorders, ASPD symptom counts, and trait impulsivity. Controls and ASPD did not differ in P50, N100, or P200 amplitude or ASG. Past alcohol or drug use disorders had no effect. In controls, impulsivity related to improved P50 and P200 gating. In ASPD, P50 or N100 gating was impaired with more symptoms or increased impulsivity, respectively, suggesting impaired early filtering of irrelevant information. In controls the relationship between P50 and P200 gating and impulsivity was reversed, suggesting better gating with higher impulsivity scores. This could reflect different roles of ASG in behavioral regulation in controls versus ASPD.
Functional investigation of bilateral posterior cingulate gyri using multivoxel MR spectroscopy.	The exact functional correlation of each hemisphere's posterior cingulate gyrus with the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unknown. We attempted to evaluate the relationship between metabolite ratios in each hemisphere's posterior cingulate gyrus and cognitive deficits, using multivoxel magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). We recruited 23 patients with AD, 16 patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and 22 cognitively normal subjects. All patients underwent multivoxel MRS in the bilateral posterior cingulate gyri. We statistically analyzed correlations between the N-acetylaspartate/creatine ratio (NAA/Cr) in each posterior cingulate gyrus and patients' raw scores on neuropsychological tests. The NAA/Cr of each posterior cingulate gyrus correlated well with the verbal learning test scores on immediate recall and delayed recall tasks. We found that the only cognitive domain to correlate with the NAA/Cr of each posterior cingulate gyrus was verbal memory. Our results did not show any significant functional difference between right and left posterior cingulate gyri.
CellSeT: novel software to extract and analyze structured networks of plant cells from confocal images.	It is increasingly important in life sciences that many cell-scale and tissue-scale measurements are quantified from confocal microscope images. However, extracting and analyzing large-scale confocal image data sets represents a major bottleneck for researchers. To aid this process, CellSeT software has been developed, which utilizes tissue-scale structure to help segment individual cells. We provide examples of how the CellSeT software can be used to quantify fluorescence of hormone-responsive nuclear reporters, determine membrane protein polarity, extract cell and tissue geometry for use in later modeling, and take many additional biologically relevant measures using an extensible plug-in toolset. Application of CellSeT promises to remove subjectivity from the resulting data sets and facilitate higher-throughput, quantitative approaches to plant cell research.
Behaviorally-indexed distress tolerance and suicidality.	Research indicates that distress tolerance exhibits a complicated relationship with risk factors for suicidal behavior. Specifically, low self-reported distress tolerance has been linked to perceived burdensomeness and thwarted belongingness. Contrastingly, high self-reported distress tolerance has been linked to the acquired capability for suicide. Given the frequently discrepant findings between self-report and behavioral indices of distress tolerance, we sought to expand upon prior findings by testing these relationships utilizing a behavioral measure of distress tolerance. Additionally, in an effort to further clarify the role of distress tolerance relative to painful and/or provocative experiences in the acquired capability, we examined whether distress tolerance serves as a moderator. Results revealed no significant associations between distress tolerance and burdensomeness or belongingness; however, distress tolerance was positively associated with the acquired capability. Furthermore, the interaction of distress tolerance and painful and/or provocative experiences significantly predicted the acquired capability, with the strength of the association increasing at higher levels of distress tolerance. Results highlight the potential importance of perceived versus actual ability to tolerate distress with respect to suicidal desire. In contrast, the results reflect the importance of actual persistence in the acquired capability.
Age differences in default and reward networks during processing of personally relevant information.	We recently found activity in default mode and reward-related regions during self-relevant tasks in young adults. Here we examine the effect of aging on engagement of the default network (DN) and reward network (RN) during these tasks. Previous studies have shown reduced engagement of the DN and reward areas in older adults, but the influence of age on these circuits during self-relevant tasks has not been examined. The tasks involved judging personality traits about one's self or a well known other person. There were no age differences in reaction time on the tasks but older adults had more positive Self and Other judgments, whereas younger adults had more negative judgments. Both groups had increased DN and RN activity during the self-relevant tasks, relative to non-self tasks, but this increase was reduced in older compared to young adults. Functional connectivity of both networks during the tasks was weaker in the older relative to younger adults. Intrinsic functional connectivity, measured at rest, also was weaker in the older adults in the DN, but not in the RN. These results suggest that, in younger adults, the processing of personally relevant information involves robust activation of and functional connectivity within these two networks, in line with current models that emphasize strong links between the self and reward. The finding that older adults had more positive judgments, but weaker engagement and less consistent functional connectivity in these networks, suggests potential brain mechanisms for the "positivity bias" with aging.
Low-dose droperidol (≤1 mg or ≤15 μg kg-1) for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in adults: quantitative systematic review of randomised controlled trials.	Droperidol is widely used for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) in European countries. It is unclear how efficacious low-dose droperidol is in the prevention of PONV.
Self-directed speech affects visual search performance.	People often talk to themselves, yet very little is known about the functions of this self-directed speech. We explore effects of self-directed speech on visual processing by using a visual search task. According to the label feedback hypothesis (Lupyan, 2007a), verbal labels can change ongoing perceptual processing-for example, actually hearing "chair" compared to simply thinking about a chair can temporarily make the visual system a better "chair detector". Participants searched for common objects, while being sometimes asked to speak the target's name aloud. Speaking facilitated search, particularly when there was a strong association between the name and the visual target. As the discrepancy between the name and the target increased, speaking began to impair performance. Together, these results speak to the power of words to modulate ongoing visual processing.
Impairment of activities of daily living and incident heart failure in community-dwelling older adults.	Instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) are tasks that are necessary for independent community living. These tasks often require intact physical and cognitive function, the impairment of which may adversely affect health in older adults. In the current study, we examined the association between IADL impairment and incident heart failure (HF) in community-dwelling older adults.
Are there gender differences in quality of life and symptomatology between fibromyalgia patients?	The purpose of this study is to examine gender differences in quality of life (QoL) and symptomatology in fibromyalgia (FM) patients. A total of 20 men (48.0 ± 8.0 years) and 78 women (49.8 ± 7.2 years) with FM participated in the study (age range 31-63 years). Health-related QoL and FM impact were assessed by means of the Spanish versions of the Short-Form-36 Health Survey (SF36) and the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), respectively. Comparisons in QoL were performed using one-way analysis of covariance adjusted by age and body mass index (BMI), and comparisons in FIQ dimensions were performed using Mann-Whitney test. Overall FM impact, as measured by FIQ-total score (p = .01) and FIQ-physical impairment (p = .02) was higher in men, whereas women presented higher values of FIQ-fatigue and FIQ-morning tiredness (p = .04) and less SF36-vitality (p = .02). Therefore, women appear to feel more fatigue, whereas men present higher FM overall impact. Due to the small number of men included in this study and the consequent small statistical power, these results should be taken as preliminary. Higher powered studies are warranted to further address gender differences in FM in order to design more successful treatments.
Improved correlation analysis and visualization of industrial alarm data.	The problem of multivariate alarm analysis and rationalization is complex and important in the area of smart alarm management due to the interrelationships between variables. The technique of capturing and visualizing the correlation information, especially from historical alarm data directly, is beneficial for further analysis. In this paper, the Gaussian kernel method is applied to generate pseudo continuous time series from the original binary alarm data. This can reduce the influence of missed, false, and chattering alarms. By taking into account time lags between alarm variables, a correlation color map of the transformed or pseudo data is used to show clusters of correlated variables with the alarm tags reordered to better group the correlated alarms. Thereafter correlation and redundancy information can be easily found and used to improve the alarm settings; and statistical methods such as singular value decomposition techniques can be applied within each cluster to help design multivariate alarm strategies. Industrial case studies are given to illustrate the practicality and efficacy of the proposed method. This improved method is shown to be better than the alarm similarity color map when applied in the analysis of industrial alarm data.
Lack of significant renal tubular injury despite acute kidney injury in acute decompensated heart failure.	Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a strong predictor of adverse events with an incompletely understood pathophysiology. Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) is proposed as an early marker of renal tubular injury. Our aim is to determine whether AKI during treatment of acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) is accompanied by renal tubular injury.
Relationship between pump speed and exercise capacity during HeartMate II left ventricular assist device support: influence of residual left ventricular function.	Patients treated with a Thoratec HeartMate II left ventricular assist device (LVAD) are supported at a fixed pump speed. It is uncertain whether pump speed has a significant effect on exercise capacity. We investigated the relationship between pump speed and exercise capacity and the influence of residual LV function
Renal artery stenosis: an innocent bystander or an independent predictor of worse outcome in patients with chronic heart failure? A magnetic resonance imaging study.	To investigate the prognostic impact of atherosclerotic renovascular disease in patients with chronic heart failure.
Double jeopardy: the influence of excessive daytime sleepiness and impaired cognition on health-related quality of life in adults with heart failure.	To determine how excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) and impaired cognition contribute to health-related quality of life (HRQL) in heart failure (HF).
The efficacy and safety of lixivaptan in outpatients with heart failure and volume overload: results of a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study.	Volume overload is the dominant feature of decompensated heart failure (HF) and it often results in adverse clinical outcomes. Vasopressin receptor antagonists such as lixivaptan may provide effective volume unloading. This study assessed weight loss after 1 day and 8 weeks of treatment with lixivaptan in outpatients with HF and volume overload.
Intra- and inter-group coordination patterns reveal collective behaviors of football players near the scoring zone.	This study examined emergent coordination processes in collective patterns of behavior in 3 vs 3 sub-phases of the team sport of association football near the scoring zone. We identified coordination tendencies for the centroid (i.e., team center) and surface area (i.e., occupied space) of each sub-group of performers (n=20 plays). We also compared these kinematic variables at three key moments of play using mixed-model ANOVAs. The centroids demonstrated a strong symmetric relation that described the coordinated attacking/defending actions of performers in this sub-phase of play. Conversely, analysis of the surface area of each team did not reveal a clear coordination pattern between sub-groups. But the difference in the occupied area between the attacking and defending sub-groups significantly increased over time. Findings emphasized that major changes in sub-group behaviors occurred just before an assisted pass was made (i.e., leading to a loss of stability in the 3 vs 3 sub-phases).
Identification of a circuit-based endophenotype for familial depression.	Frontal and parietal lesions may cause depression, and cortical thinning of the right frontal and parietal lobes has been shown to be a marker of risk for familial major depression. We studied biological offspring within a three-generation cohort, in which risk was defined by the depression status of the first generation, to identify regional volume differences associated with risk for depression throughout the cerebrum. We found reduced frontal and parietal white matter volumes in the high-risk group, including in persons without any personal history of depression, suggesting that hypoplasia of frontal and parietal white matter is an endophenotype for familial depression. In addition, white matter volumes in these regions correlated with current severity of symptoms of depression, inattention, and impulsivity. White matter volumes also correlated strongly with the degree of thinning in the right parietal cortex. These findings support a model of pathogenesis in which hypoplasia within a neural network for attention and emotional processing predisposes to depression.
Impact of heart failure and changes to volume status on liver stiffness: non-invasive assessment using transient elastography.	The impact of cardiac dysfunction on the liver is known as cardiac hepatopathy. In certain instances this can result in significant hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis. The validity of non-invasive tools to assess hepatic fibrosis, such as FibroScan(®) which measures liver stiffness (LSM), has not been established in this setting. We examined the impact of cardiac dysfunction on LSM using FibroScan(®) and the influence of volume changes on LSM.
An efficient statistical algorithm for a temporal scan statistic applied to vaccine safety analyses.	In the US, the Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD) project, sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, conducts near-real-time, population-based, active surveillance for vaccine safety. One of the steps in analyzing signals, if there are enough cases, is to apply temporal scan statistics. The purpose is to determine if the cases clustered in time within an overall a priori defined post-vaccination observation interval. We presented a relatively efficient and accurate algorithm for the purely temporal scan statistic as applied to vaccine safety investigations. It only needs SAS/BASE(®) software, and the algorithm is simple enough to be programmed in another software languages. Our present work is focused on incorporating the temporal scan statistic algorithm within our previous approach for finding an optimal risk window for studies of vaccine safety.
The Gatsby Plant Science Summer School: inspiring the next generation of plant science researchers.	We provide evidence from a 5-year study to show that a single concerted effort at the start of undergraduate study can have a clear and lasting effect on the attitudes of students toward plant science. Attendance at a week-long residential plant science summer school in the first year of an undergraduate degree resulted in many students changing courses to include more plant science and increased numbers of graduates selecting plant-based PhDs. The evidence shows that the Gatsby Plant Science Summer School has increased the pool of high-quality plant science related PhD applicants in the UK and has had a positive impact on students' career aspirations. The results are discussed within the context of enhancing the pipeline of future plant scientists and reversing the decline of this vulnerable and strategically important subject relevant to addressing food security and other major global challenges. We have shown that a single well-designed and timely intervention can influence future student behavior and as such offers a framework of potential use to other vulnerable disciplines.
The PROTECT in-hospital risk model: 7-day outcome in patients hospitalized with acute heart failure and renal dysfunction.	In patients with acute heart failure (AHF), early worsening heart failure (WHF) predicts a significant proportion of post-discharge readmissions and mortality. We aimed to identify the predictors of 7-day heart failure events or death in patients hospitalized with AHF.
Medial prefrontal cortex activity during the extinction of conditioned fear: an investigation using functional near-infrared spectroscopy.	The majority of fear conditioning studies in humans have focused on fear acquisition rather than fear extinction. For this reason only a few functional imaging studies on fear extinction are available. A large number of animal studies indicate the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) as neuronal substrate of extinction. We therefore determined mPFC contribution during extinction learning after a discriminative fear conditioning in 34 healthy human subjects by using functional near-infrared spectroscopy. During the extinction training, a previously conditioned neutral face (conditioned stimulus, CS+) no longer predicted an aversive scream (unconditioned stimulus, UCS). Considering differential valence and arousal ratings as well as skin conductance responses during the acquisition phase, we found a CS+ related increase in oxygenated haemoglobin concentration changes within the mPFC over the time course of extinction. Late CS+ trials further revealed higher activation than CS- trials in a cluster of probe set channels covering the mPFC. These results are in line with previous findings on extinction and further emphasize the mPFC as significant for associative learning processes. During extinction, the diminished fear association between a former CS+ and a UCS is inversely correlated with mPFC activity--a process presumably dysfunctional in anxiety disorders.
Diagnostic utility and correlation of tumor markers in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of children with intracranial germ cell tumors.	In order to predict whether tumor markers assist in the histopathologic diagnosis of germ cell tumors (GCTs), we analyzed the correlation of beta human chorionic gonadotropin (βhCG) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples at baseline and subsequent follow-up examinations.
Examining ERP correlates of recognition memory: evidence of accurate source recognition without recollection.	Recollection is typically associated with high recognition confidence and accurate source memory. However, subjects sometimes make accurate source memory judgments even for items that are not confidently recognized, and it is not known whether these responses are based on recollection or some other memory process. In the current study, we measured event related potentials (ERPs) while subjects made item and source memory confidence judgments in order to determine whether recollection supported accurate source recognition responses for items that were not confidently recognized. In line with previous studies, we found that recognition memory was associated with two ERP effects: an early on-setting FN400 effect, and a later parietal old-new effect [late positive component (LPC)], which have been associated with familiarity and recollection, respectively. The FN400 increased gradually with item recognition confidence, whereas the LPC was only observed for highly confident recognition responses. The LPC was also related to source accuracy, but only for items that had received a high confidence item recognition response; accurate source judgments to items that were less confidently recognized did not exhibit the typical ERP correlate of recollection or familiarity, but rather showed a late, broadly distributed negative ERP difference. The results indicate that accurate source judgments of episodic context can occur even when recollection fails.
Statistical power of detecting trends in total suspended sediment loads to the Great Barrier Reef.	The export of pollutant loads from coastal catchments is of primary interest to natural resource management. For example, Reef Plan, a joint initiative by the Australian Government and the Queensland Government, has indicated that a 20% reduction in sediment is required by 2020. There is an obvious need to consider our ability to detect any trend if we are to set realistic targets or to reliably identify changes to catchment loads. We investigate the number of years of monitoring aquatic pollutant loads necessary to detect trends. Instead of modelling the trend in the annual loads directly, given their strong relationship to flow, we consider trends through the reduction in concentration for a given flow. Our simulations show very low power (<40%) of detecting changes of 20% over time periods of several decades, indicating that the chances of detecting trends of reasonable magnitudes over these time frames are very small.
Long-term mortality with cardiac resynchronization therapy in the Cardiac Resynchronization-Heart Failure (CARE-HF) trial.	The Cardiac Resynchronization-Heart Failure (CARE-HF) study helped establish an important role for cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) in the management of selected patients with heart failure. We now report the long-term outcome during and subsequent to the randomized trial.
Variation in individuals' semantic networks for common knowledge is associated with false memory.	Three experiments assessed the relationships between false memories of words and their degree of connectedness within individual semantic networks. In the first two experiments, participants studied associated word lists (e.g., hot, winter, ice), completed a recognition test that included related nonstudied words (e.g., cold, snow), and then rated the semantic relatedness of all word pairs including studied and nonstudied words. In the third experiment, the task order was reversed; participants completed pairwise ratings and then, two weeks later, completed the false memory task. The relatedness ratings were analysed using the Pathfinder scaling algorithm. In all experiments, items that an individual falsely recognized had higher semantic Pathfinder node densities than those items correctly rejected.
Modeling and analyzing higher-order correlations in non-Poissonian spike trains.	Measuring pairwise and higher-order spike correlations is crucial for studying their potential impact on neuronal information processing. In order to avoid misinterpretation of results, the tools used for data analysis need to be carefully calibrated with respect to their sensitivity and robustness. This, in turn, requires surrogate data with statistical properties common to experimental spike trains. Here, we present a novel method to generate correlated non-Poissonian spike trains and study the impact of single-neuron spike statistics on the inference of higher-order correlations. Our method to mimic cooperative neuronal spike activity allows the realization of a large variety of renewal processes with controlled higher-order correlation structure. Based on surrogate data obtained by this procedure we investigate the robustness of the recently proposed method empirical de-Poissonization (Ehm et al., 2007). It assumes Poissonian spiking, which is common also for many other estimation techniques. We observe that some degree of deviation from this assumption can generally be tolerated, that the results are more reliable for small analysis bins, and that the degree of misestimation depends on the detailed spike statistics. As a consequence of these findings we finally propose a strategy to assess the reliability of results for experimental data.
Tissue characterization using electrical impedance spectroscopy data: a linear algebra approach.	In this study, we use a new linear algebra manipulation on electrical impedance spectroscopy measurements to provide real-time information regarding the nature of the tissue surrounding the needle in minimal invasive procedures. Using a Comsol Multiphysics three-dimensional model, a phantom based on ex vivo animal tissue and in vivo animal data, we demonstrate how tissue inhomogeneity can be characterized without any previous knowledge of the electrical properties of the different tissues, except that they should not be linearly dependent on a certain frequency range. This method may have applications in needle biopsies, radiation seeds, or minimally invasive surgery and can reduce the number of computer tomography or magnetic resonance imaging images. We conclude by demonstrating how this mathematical approach can be useful in other applications.
Inflammatory myopathies associated with anti-mitochondrial antibodies.	Anti-mitochondrial antibodies, the characteristic markers of primary biliary cirrhosis, have been detected in most patients with this disease. However, the prevalence of these antibodies in inflammatory myopathies and their clinical and histopathological significance has not been determined. Sera from 212 consecutive patients with inflammatory myopathies were screened for anti-mitochondrial antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The clinical and histopathological features of anti-mitochondrial antibody-positive patients were analysed and statistically compared with those of anti-mitochondrial antibody-negative patients. Twenty-four patients positive for anti-mitochondrial antibodies (seven patients with and 17 patients without primary biliary cirrhosis) were identified (11.3%). Thirteen patients had a clinically chronic disease course of >12 months before their diagnosis at hospitals. Six of these 13 patients (four asymptomatic patients with increased creatine kinase levels and two patients with arrhythmia) had not been aware of muscle weakness, but all 13 patients had muscle atrophy at initial presentation. As complications, eight patients had cardiac involvement including arrhythmias (five patients with supraventricular tachycardia; two with ventricular tachycardia; and one patient with atrioventricular block), six patients had moderately decreased ejection fraction and six patients had decreased vital capacity, two of whom required respiratory support. Regarding muscle histopathological findings, in addition to inflammation, 13 patients had chronic myopathic changes and six had granulomatous lesions. Statistical analysis showed that the clinical features of a chronic disease course, cardiac involvement and muscle atrophy, and the histopathological features of chronic myopathic changes and granulomatous inflammation, were significantly more frequently observed in patients with anti-mitochondrial antibody-positive inflammatory myopathy than in patients who were negative for anti-mitochondrial antibodies. Except for cardiac involvement, which is more frequently observed in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, no significant differences in clinical or histopathological features were found between patients with or without primary biliary cirrhosis. Our study revealed that inflammatory myopathies associated with anti-mitochondrial antibodies were frequently found in patients with the clinical features of a chronic disease course, muscle atrophy and cardiopulmonary involvement, and the characteristic histopathological feature of granulomatous inflammation. Our study suggests that inflammatory myopathies associated with anti-mitochondrial antibodies form a characteristic subgroup.
Evaluation of bond strength of resin cements using different general-purpose statistical software packages for two-parameter Weibull statistics.	This study evaluated and compared Weibull parameters of resin bond strength values using six different general-purpose statistical software packages for two-parameter Weibull distribution.
Four factors underlying mouse behavior in an open field.	The observation of the locomotor and exploratory behaviors of rodents in an open field is one of the most fundamental methods used in the field of behavioral pharmacology. A variety of behaviors can be recorded automatically and can readily generate a multivariate pattern of pharmacological effects. Nevertheless, the optimal ways to characterize observed behaviors and concomitant drug effects are still under development. The aim of this study was to extract meaningful behavioral factors that could explain variations in the observed variables from mouse exploration. Behavioral data were recorded from male C57BL/6J mice (n=268) using the Behavioral Pattern Monitor (BPM). The BPM data were subjected to the exploratory factor analysis. The factor analysis extracted four factors: activity, sequential organization, diversive exploration, and inspective exploration. The activity factor and the two types of exploration factors correlated positively with one another, while the sequential organization factor negatively correlated with the remaining factors. The extracted factor structure constitutes a behavioral model of mouse exploration. This model will provide a platform on which one can assess the effects of psychoactive drugs and genetic manipulations on mouse exploratory behavior. Further studies are currently underway to examine the factor structure of similar multivariate data sets from humans tested in a human BPM.
Executive function and activities of daily living in Alzheimer's disease: a correlational meta-analysis.	The assessment of executive function (EF) and activities of daily living (ADL) are important elements in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Left prefrontal cortex activation during sentence comprehension covaries with grammatical knowledge in children.	Children's language skills develop rapidly with increasing age, and several studies indicate that they use language- and age-specific strategies to understand complex sentences. In the present experiment, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and behavioral measures were used to investigate the acquisition of case-marking cues for sentence interpretation in the developing brain of German preschool children with a mean age of 6 years. Short sentences were presented auditorily, consisting of a transitive verb and two case-marked arguments with canonical subject-initial or non canonical object-initial word order. Overall group results revealed mainly left hemispheric activation in the perisylvian cortex with increased activation in the inferior parietal cortex (IPC), and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for object-initial compared to subject-initial sentences. However, single-subject analysis suggested two distinct activation patterns within the group which allowed a classification into two subgroups. One subgroup showed the predicted activation increase in the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) for the more difficult object-initial compared to subject-initial sentences, while the other group showed the reverse effect. This activation in the left IFG can be taken to reflect the degree to which adult-like sentence processing strategies, necessary to integrate case-marking information, are applied. Additional behavioral data on language development tests show that these two subgroups differ in their grammatical knowledge. Together with these behavioral findings, the results indicate that the use of a particular processing strategy is not dependent on age as such, but rather on the child's individual grammatical knowledge and the ability to use specific language cues for successful sentence comprehension.
Mechanism of photogenerated reactive oxygen species and correlation with the antibacterial properties of engineered metal-oxide nanoparticles.	Oxidative stress induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) is one of the most important antibacterial mechanisms of engineered nanoparticles (NPs). To elucidate the ROS generation mechanisms, we investigated the ROS production kinetics of seven selected metal-oxide NPs and their bulk counterparts under UV irradiation (365 nm). The results show that different metal oxides had distinct photogenerated ROS kinetics. Particularly, TiO(2) nanoparticles and ZnO nanoparticles generated three types of ROS (superoxide radical, hydroxyl radical, and singlet oxygen), whereas other metal oxides generated only one or two types or did not generate any type of ROS. Moreover, NPs yielded more ROS than their bulk counterparts likely due to larger surface areas of NPs providing more absorption sites for UV irradiation. The ROS generation mechanism was elucidated by comparing the electronic structures (i.e., band edge energy levels) of the metal oxides with the redox potentials of various ROS generation, which correctly interpreted the ROS generation of most metal oxides. To develop a quantitative relationship between oxidative stress and antibacterial activity of NPs, we examined the viability of E. coli cells in aqueous suspensions of NPs under UV irradiation, and a linear correlation was found between the average concentration of total ROS and the bacterial survival rates (R(2) = 0.84). Although some NPs (i.e., ZnO and CuO nanoparticles) released toxic ions that partially contributed to their antibacterial activity, this correlation quantitatively linked ROS production capability of NPs to their antibacterial activity as well as shed light on the applications of metal-oxide NPs as potential antibacterial agents.
Neuroanatomical correlates of visual car expertise.	Expertise in non-visual domains such as musical performance is associated with differences in gray matter volume of particular regions of the human brain. Whether this is also the case for expertise in visual object recognition is unknown. Here we tested whether individual variability in the ability to recognize car models, from novice performance to high level of expertise, is associated with specific structural changes in gray matter volume. We found that inter-individual variability in expertise with cars was significantly and selectively correlated with gray matter volume in prefrontal cortex. Inter-individual differences in the recognition of airplanes, that none of the participants had expertise with, were correlated with structural variability of regions bordering the visual cortex. These results highlight the role of prefrontal regions outside the visual cortex in accessing and processing visual knowledge about objects from the domain of expertise and suggest that expertise in visual object recognition may entail structural changes in regions associated with semantic knowledge.
Correlation of expression of hypoxia-related proteins with prognosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma patients.	Hypoxia plays a major role in tumor progression, therapy resistance and for prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). The crucial step as a response to hypoxia is the activation and stabilization of the alpha subunit of hypoxia inducible factor 1 (HIF-1α).                                               HIF-1:                          HIF-1 regulates the expression of different genes to adapt the tumor cells to reduced oxygenation. The HIF-1 system is intrinsic regulated by von Hippel-Lindau protein (pVHL). Main downstream proteins are the glucose transporter 1 (GLUT-1), carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). For therapeutical stratification in OSCC, it is important to understand the mechanism caused by hypoxic stress and to comprehend the resulting adaptive process in cancer cells. Therefore, an overview of HIF-1α-depending protein expression, focussed on the expression of GLUT-1, CAIX, and VEGF and their prognostic significance in OSCC is given.
Assessment of post-stroke fatigue: the fatigue scale for motor and cognitive functions.	Post-stroke fatigue (PSF) is an important but still controversial issue since knowledge on its nature is still humble. The aim of the present study was to characterize PSF beyond the subacute phase.
Cost effectiveness of peer support for type 2 diabetes.	The aim of this study is to examine the cost-effectiveness of a group-based peer support intervention in general practice for patients with type 2 diabetes.
Implementation of the simplified stochastic model of ageing for longitudinal osteoarthritis data assessment.	Occurrence and progression of age-related irreversible degradations of skeletal joints, osteoarthritis (OA), has a stochastic nature. However, it is commonly described using polynomial models, which may not necessarily be optimal.
Heart rate achieved or beta-blocker dose in patients with chronic heart failure: which is the better target?	To investigate whether the mortality of patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD) is more strongly related to beta-blocker dose or to heart rate. It is known that beta-blockers reduce mortality in patients with CHF and LVSD, but the primary mechanism of action is uncertain.
Local tobacco policy and tobacco outlet density: associations with youth smoking.	This study investigates the associations between local tobacco policy, tobacco outlet density, and youth smoking. A primary focus is on whether local tobacco policy moderates the relation between outlet density and youth smoking.
Contextual amplification or attenuation of pubertal timing effects on depressive symptoms among Mexican American girls.	To examine the role of neighborhood contextual variation in the putative association between pubertal timing and depressive symptoms among Mexican-origin girls.
Mental distress and subsequent use of psychotropic drugs among adolescents-a prospective register linkage study.	To investigate the association between mental distress, other factors, and subsequent use of psychotropic drugs in adolescents aged 15-16 years.
Factors associated with adolescents' propensity to drive with multiple passengers and to engage in risky driving behaviors.	Research shows that parenting factors and individual difference variables, such as sensation seeking (SS) and risk perceptions (RPs), are associated with increased motor vehicle crash risk for young drivers. The presence of peer passengers is also known to be associated with increased crash risk. However, as previous studies did not study these factors concurrently, less is known about the factors that are associated with driving with peer passengers and if peer passengers may mediate the effect of parenting and individual difference variables on adolescents' engagement in risky driving behavior.
Analytical performance, reference values and decision limits. A need to differentiate between reference intervals and decision limits and to define analytical quality specifications.	With the increasing use of decision limits (action limits, cut-off points) specified for a number of analytical components in diagnosis and for action in critical situations, formulated in national or international recommendations, the traditional interpretation of reference intervals has been uncertain, and sometimes the two concepts are being mixed up by incorporating risk calculations in the reference intervals. There is, therefore, a need to clarify the two concepts and to keep them definitely separated. Reference intervals are the 95% limits for the descriptions of the distributions of the values of analytical components measured on reference samples from reference individuals. Decision limits are based on guidelines from national and international expert groups defining specific concentrations of certain components as limits for decision about diagnosis or well-defined specific actions. Analytical quality specifications for reference intervals have been defined for bias since the 1990s, but in the recommendations specified in the clinical guidelines analytical quality specifications are only scarcely defined. The demands for negligible biases are, however, even more essential for decision limits, as the choice is no longer left to the clinician, but emerge directly from the concentration. Even a small bias will change the number of diseased individuals, so the demands for negligible biases are obvious. A view over the analytical quality as published gives a variable picture of bias for many components, but with many examples of considerable bias which must be critical--yet no specifications have been stipulated until now.
A pragmatic proposal for permissible limits in external quality assessment schemes with a compromise between biological variation and the state of the art.	Permissible limits for internal and external quality assurance are either based on biological variation or on the state of the art (technical feasibility). The former approach has a scientific basis, but, in some cases, leads to limits which are either not achievable under the present technology, or which are not stringent enough. If proficiency testing is mandatory, stringent limits which cannot be fulfilled by the majority of laboratories could lead to juristic consequences. Therefore, most national guidelines were based on the state of the art, however, without providing the underlying reasoning. A simple algorithm for permissible limits in external quality assessment schemes (EQAS) is proposed based on biological variation, technical feasibility and correlated to the rate of false positive results. The proposed limits are compared with some limits from several EQAS (RiliBÄK, SEKK, RCPA, CLIA, PROLARIT). The suggested limits are slightly more stringent than the German RiliBÄK, less stringent than the Australasian guidelines and agreed best with the Czech SEKK and the Italian PROLARIT scheme. The graphical presentation of permissible limits strictly derived of biological variation with the proposed limits led to straight lines with different slopes and a cross-over at the limits for quantities with a medium biological variation (e.g., trijodthyronine). The greatest discordance between the various recommendations was observed for calcium, chloride, hemoglobin A(1c) and sodium.
Cyclin d1 expression and its correlation with histopathological differentiation in oral squamous cell carcinoma.	Cyclin D1 regulates the G1 to S transition of cell cycle. Its deregulation or overexpression may lead to disturbance in the normal cell cycle control and tumour formation. Overexpression of cyclin D1 has been reported in various tumors of diverse histogenesis. This case control retrospective study was carried out to study the immunohistochemical reactivity and expression of cyclin D1 and its association with site, clinical staging, and histopathological differentiation of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
Injury, disability and quality of life after the 2009 earthquake in Padang, Indonesia: a prospective cohort study of adult survivors.	On 30 September 2009, a 7.6 magnitude earthquake severely hit the coast of Padang city in West Sumatra, Indonesia leaving about 1,117 people dead and injuring another 3,515. Health consequences such as physical injury, co-morbidity, disability and quality of life over time are seldom reported among survivors after earthquakes.
Human information behaviour and physiological measurements as a basis to tailor health information. An explorative study in a physical activity intervention among prediabetic individuals in Northern Finland.	 To explore through an interdisciplinary approach the potential to tailor health information on the basis of human information behaviour (HIB) on par with the results of basic physiological measurements of individuals' health.
Functional disability among chronic pain patients receiving long-term opioid treatment.	This study of 2,163 adult chronic, non-cancer-pain, long-term opioid therapy patients examines the relationship of depression to functional disability by measuring average pain interference, activity limitation days, and employment status. Those with more depression symptoms compared to those with fewer were more likely to have worse disability on all 3 measures (average pain interference score >5, OR = 5.36, p < .0001; activity limitation days ≥ 30, OR = 4.05, p < .0001; unemployed due to health reasons, OR = 4.06, p < .0001). Depression might play a crucial role in the lives of these patients; identifying and treating depression symptoms in chronic pain patients should be a priority.
Successful outcome of an integrated strategy for the reduction of schistosomiasis transmission in an endemically complex area.	Schistosomiasis is one of the major public health problems in the People's Republic of China (and elsewhere), seriously threatening health as well as social and economic development. An integrated control strategy, emphasising transmission control but also aimed at reducing greenhouse gases, was carried out in Jiangling county, Hubei province from 2007 to 2009. Three villages were chosen for a pilot study involving removal of cattle from neighbouring, snail-infested grasslands, improving sanitation and construction of units for household biogas production in addition to routine control measures. Both prevalence and intensity of infection in the snails in the neighbourhood were greatly reduced after two years of implementation, while the prevalence of schistosomiasis in humans in the three villages had been reduced by 29%, 34% and 24%, respectively. The removal of cattle and construction of biogas production units had an additional positive effect in that the annual, average emission of greenhouse gases such as methane (CH4) and carbon dioxide (CO2) were reduced by an estimated 7.8 and 80.2 tons, respectively.
Application of Bayesian geostatistical modeling for the assessment of risk for child mortality during the 2008 earthquake in Wenchuan, People's Republic of China.	A Bayesian geostatistical model was used to identify factors related to topographical variation in the analysis of mortality risk for children less than 5 years of age in the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake in the People's Republic of China. Epidemiological data from a standardized survey were available from 115 locations across the study area. Physical and demographic factors measured directly at the township level were examined with respect to risk. The geostatistical model explicitly accounted for spatial correlation present in child mortality by fitting a Gaussian linear model to the data. Results identified the role of several factors in explaining geographical heterogeneity in child mortality and show that it was significantly correlated with earthquake intensity, population density, migrant labour, and the percentage of collapsed houses.
Spatial distribution and autocorrelation of infant mortality for three cities in Paraná state, Brazil.	Infant mortality (IM), defined as deaths among children one year of age or younger, is an indicator of quality of life and of the organisation and quality of health services. IM reduction is one of the main goals of healthcare and improvements in this area would demonstrate an impact of public services and improved living conditions. Knowledge of the geographic distribution of IM can provide support for prevention and health maintenance decisions. The objective of this study was to analyse the spatial distribution and autocorrelation of IM in Maringá, Sarandi and Paiçandu, three cities in the Maringá metropolitan area, Paraná state, Brazil. The coefficients ranged between 6.5 and 18.2, with the highest rates found in the outskirts of the fused cities, particularly in the demographic expansion areas (DEAs) in Sarandi, with a "high-high" correlation for DEAs no. 18 and 19 and a "low-high" for DEA no. 16. In the central area of Maringá, represented by DEAs no. 3, 6 and 7, the correlation was "low-low". Peripheral DEAs generally show inferior socioeconomic and healthcare conditions. These observations make it possible to analyse programme coverage, set priorities, define goals and follow-up future changes.
Associations between plasma cytokines and depressive mood in patients with breast cancer.	The few studies on the associations between cytokines and depressive mood in patients with cancer have produced conflicting results. This study investigated the associations between plasma cytokines and depressive mood in patients with breast cancer using a large panel of pro-inflammatory, anti-inflammatory, and immune-modulating cytokines.
Statistical challenges in the development and evaluation of marker-based clinical tests.	Exciting new technologies for assessing markers in human specimens are now available to evaluate unprecedented types and numbers of variations in DNA, RNA, proteins, or biological structures such as chromosomes. These markers, whether viewed individually, or collectively as a 'signature', have the potential to be useful for disease risk assessment, screening, early detection, prognosis, therapy selection, and monitoring for therapy effectiveness or disease recurrence. Successful translation from basic research findings to clinically useful test requires basic, translational, and regulatory sciences and a collaborative effort among individuals with varied types of expertise including laboratory scientists, technology developers, clinicians, statisticians, and bioinformaticians. The focus of this commentary is the many statistical challenges in translational marker research, specifically in the development and validation of marker-based tests that have clinical utility for therapeutic decision-making.
Preliminary validity and reliability of the Sickle Cell Disease Health-Related Stigma Scale.	There have been no published studies that measure health-related stigma in individuals with sickle cell disease (SCD). This study provides preliminary validity and reliability of the Sickle Cell Disease Health-Related Stigma Scale (SCD-HRSS). Using a sample of 77 young adults with SCD, ages 18-35 years, the results support the reliability of the SCD-HRSS with an overall Cronbach's alpha reliability of 0.84 and construct validity with a positive correlation between SCD-HRSS and a measure of depressive symptoms. Participants reported the highest levels of perceived stigma from the general public, then doctors, and lastly family. Limitations and directions for future research are discussed.
Marital adjustment and depressive symptoms in Korean Americans.	The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between the quality of marital adjustment and depressive symptoms in Korean American couples. Fifty-three wives and 19 husbands reported on the Dyadic Adjustment Scale and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies for Depression Scale. Results from linear regression indicated a negative relationship between marital adjustment and depressive symptoms at a significant level for wives and near significant for husbands. The model explained 15% of the variance in wives' depressive symptoms. The negative impact of marital adjustment on depressive symptoms indicates that Korean American couples' marital adjustments need to be addressed.
Predicting a single HIV drug resistance measure from three international interpretation gold standards.	To investigate the possibility of combining the interpretation of three gold standard interpretation algorithms using weighted heuristics in order to produce a single resistance measure.
Prefrontal neurons represent winning and losing during competitive video shooting games between monkeys.	Humans and animals must work to support their survival and reproductive needs. Because resources are limited in the natural environment, competition is inevitable, and competing successfully is vitally important. However, the neuronal mechanisms of competitive behavior are poorly studied. We examined whether neurons in the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) showed response sensitivity related to a competitive game. In this study, monkeys played a video shooting game, either competing with another monkey or the computer, or playing alone without a rival. Monkeys performed more quickly and more accurately in the competitive than in the noncompetitive games, indicating that they were more motivated in the competitive than in the noncompetitive games. LPFC neurons showed differential activity between the competitive and noncompetitive games showing winning- and losing-related activity. Furthermore, activities of prefrontal neurons differed depending on whether the competition was between monkeys or between the monkey and the computer. These results indicate that LPFC neurons may play an important role in monitoring the outcome of competition and enabling animals to adapt their behavior to increase their chances of obtaining a reward in a socially interactive environment.
Sample size estimation in single-arm clinical trials with multiple testing under frequentist and Bayesian approaches.	In this paper, we study one-sided multiple testing problems for normal and binomial distributions. We use order statistics to test the null hypothesis {all H ( i0) are true}. This approach allows us to uniformly address frequentist and Bayesian multiple testing models. To calculate order statistics, we use confidence limits. In frequentist models, we apply an adjustment to the confidence limits that is equivalent to the Bonferroni adjustment of p-values. In the Bayesian case, we adjust the credible limits following a concept of reconciliation between the Bayesian posterior probability and the frequentist p-value. We also study the quantitative relationship between the number of tests and the sample size of a clinical trial. If the number of tests is very large, we suggest using asymptotic order statistics. We study the performance of these statistics. The asymptotic order statistics for the normal distribution are used to extend the results for independent observations to dependent observations.
Dissociation and psychosis in dissociative identity disorder and schizophrenia.	Dissociative symptoms, first-rank symptoms of schizophrenia, and delusions were assessed in 40 schizophrenia patients and 40 dissociative identity disorder (DID) patients with the Multidimensional Inventory of Dissociation (MID). Schizophrenia patients were diagnosed with the Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-IV Axis I Disorders; DID patients were diagnosed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Dissociative Disorders-Revised. DID patients obtained significantly (a) higher dissociation scores; (b) higher passive-influence scores (first-rank symptoms); and (c) higher scores on scales that measure child voices, angry voices, persecutory voices, voices arguing, and voices commenting. Schizophrenia patients obtained significantly higher delusion scores than did DID patients. What is odd is that the dissociation scores of schizophrenia patients were unrelated to their reports of childhood maltreatment. Multiple regression analyses indicated that 81% of the variance in DID patients' dissociation scores was predicted by the MID's Ego-Alien Experiences Scale, whereas 92% of the variance in schizophrenia patients' dissociation scores was predicted by the MID's Voices Scale. We propose that schizophrenia patients' responses to the MID do not index the same pathology as do the responses of DID patients. We argue that neither phenomenological definitions of dissociation nor the current generation of dissociation instruments (which are uniformly phenomenological in nature) can distinguish between the dissociative phenomena of DID and what we suspect are just the dissociation-like phenomena of schizophrenia.
Peritraumatic dissociation as a mediator of peritraumatic distress and PTSD: a retrospective, cross-sectional study.	The objective of the present article was to examine the mediational significance of peritraumatic dissociation in the relationship between peritraumatic distress and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). A total of 71 individuals with spinal cord injuries completed interviews and questionnaires measuring PTSD symptomatology, peritraumatic dissociation, and peritraumatic distress. Peritraumatic dissociation was found to partially mediate the relationship between peritraumatic distress and PTSD symptomatology. These findings provide support for the hypothesis that peritraumatic distress and peritraumatic dissociation significantly impact PTSD severity. The findings also support the hypothesis that peritraumatic dissociation is provoked by peritraumatic distress. The results further indicate that although peritraumatic dissociation seems to be a significant risk factor for PTSD, it is not necessary for the development of PTSD; the presence of peritraumatic distress may be sufficient. These findings highlight the importance of investigating peritraumatic reactions after a traumatic event in order to identify individuals at risk for developing PTSD. Such a practice may help prevent the development of chronic conditions.
The conduct of dental research: the protocol, a guide.	Research today requires detailed planning to ensure efficient work, to raise funding and to fit into time constraints.
Brazilian Peritoneal Dialysis Multicenter Study (BRAZPD): from conception to execution of a national peritoneal dialysis reality check.	Systematic data collection of patients undergoing renal replacement therapy is critical to the epidemiological and clinical understanding of the treatment. These data may allow more rational use of economic resources and identify interventions to improve treatment and decrease the morbidity and mortality of these patients. The Brazilian Peritoneal Dialysis Multicenter Study (BRAZPD), an observational cohort study of peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients in Brazil, aimed to collect monthly demographics, clinical, laboratory and outcome data of PD patients treated in 114 dialysis clinics around the country, was started in December 2004 and ended in September 2011. BRAZPD has been generating solid and important information, which is very useful as a reality check of the PD therapy for all Brazilian PD centers.
Cognitive impairment and formal thought disorders in parents of early-onset schizophrenia patients.	Both cognitive impairment and formal thought disorder (communication disturbances) found in patients with schizophrenia are also commonly observed in their relatives. Recently, the role of such deficits as putative endophenotypes of schizophrenia has been proposed. However, in a majority of studies, the families of adult patients were assessed whereas the relatives of early-onset psychotic subjects were rarely studied. The aim of our study was to evaluate the presence of cognitive impairment and formal thought disorders in parents of adolescents with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder (SSD) and in matched healthy controls.
Job satisfaction of nurses and identifying factors of job satisfaction in Slovenian Hospitals.	To determine the level of job satisfaction of nursing professionals in Slovenian hospitals and factors influencing job satisfaction in nursing.
Turkish school teachers' knowledge and attitudes toward HIV/AIDS.	To assess Turkish school teachers' knowledge, attitudes, and misconceptions of HIV/AIDS.
The perception and knowledge of cardiovascular risk factors among medical students.	To assess perceptions, knowledge, and awareness of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors among medical students (freshmen and graduating students).
Pitfalls and important issues in testing reliability using intraclass correlation coefficients in orthopaedic research.	Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) provide a statistical means of testing the reliability. However, their interpretation is not well documented in the orthopedic field. The purpose of this study was to investigate the use of ICCs in the orthopedic literature and to demonstrate pitfalls regarding their use.
Cadaveric analysis of an accelerometer-based portable navigation device for distal femoral cutting block alignment in total knee arthroplasty.	Femoral intramedullary guides have been shown to be insufficiently accurate in creating a distal femoral resection perpendicular to the mechanical axis in total knee arthroplasty (TKA), as they make assumptions regarding the difference between the patient's femoral mechanical and anatomical angles. The aim of this cadaveric study was to validate the accuracy of a portable accelerometer-based navigation device for alignment of the distal femoral cutting block in TKA. Twenty-nine trials were performed on five cadaveric specimens (hip-to-ankle), in which the distal femoral cutting block was placed using the KneeAlign 2™ navigation device. For each specimen, a preoperative "target" was assigned for varus/valgus and flexion/extension alignment of the cutting block. The actual alignment of each cutting block was then measured using the ORTHOsoft Computer Assisted Surgery (CAS) system. The mean absolute difference between the preoperative target and the alignment of the cutting block was 0.83 ± 0.60° for varus/valgus, and 0.83 ± 0.83° for flexion/extension. The KneeAlign 2™ navigation device can set and align the distal femoral resection guide with the same accuracy as a large-console CAS system, thus demonstrating that portable accelerometer-based navigation can be used reliably in total knee arthroplasty.
Validation of the femoral anteversion measurement method used in imageless navigation.	Total hip arthroplasty restores lost mobility to patients suffering from osteoarthritis and acute trauma. In recent years, navigated surgery has been used to control prosthetic component placement. Furthermore, there has been increasing research on what constitutes correct placement. This has resulted in the definition of a safe-zone for acetabular cup orientation. However, there is less definition with regard to femoral anteversion and how it should be measured. This study assesses the validity of the femoral anteversion measurement method used in imageless navigation, with particular attention to how the neutral rotation of the femur is defined. CT and gait analysis methodologies are used to validate the reference which defines this neutral rotation, i.e., the ankle epicondyle piriformis (AEP) plane. The findings of this study indicate that the posterior condylar axis is a reliable reference for defining the neutral rotation of the femur. In imageless navigation, when these landmarks are not accessible, the AEP plane provides a useful surrogate to the condylar axis, providing a reliable baseline for femoral anteversion measurement.
Is computer-assisted surgery in total knee arthroplasty as accurate as it can be?	Three hundred and eighty computer-assisted total knee arthroplasty cases were reviewed for accuracy of mechanical alignment. The 331 patients in the first set, designated Group A, showed a consistent valgus error of 1° from neutral alignment. It was hypothesized that a manual 1° varus correction during femur resection would yield a significantly greater level of accuracy in the second set of 49 patients, designated Group B. A mechanical alignment of ±3° was achieved in 91% of the uncalibrated Group A patients, which was significantly lower (p = 0.035) than the rate of 98% achieved in the calibrated Group B. Further statistical analysis of the data showed the time expenditure was not significantly changed once a new target value was recalibrated. By quantifying mean errors of measures at an early timeframe, enhanced accuracy in CAS can be achieved.
Availability of energetic substrates and exercise performance in heart failure with or without diabetes.	The goal of the study was to examine whether resting or post-exercise metabolic substrate levels are associated with differential exercise performance and long-term outcome in control subjects or heart failure (HF) patients with or without type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM).
A framework for human microbiome research.	A variety of microbial communities and their genes (the microbiome) exist throughout the human body, with fundamental roles in human health and disease. The National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded Human Microbiome Project Consortium has established a population-scale framework to develop metagenomic protocols, resulting in a broad range of quality-controlled resources and data including standardized methods for creating, processing and interpreting distinct types of high-throughput metagenomic data available to the scientific community. Here we present resources from a population of 242 healthy adults sampled at 15 or 18 body sites up to three times, which have generated 5,177 microbial taxonomic profiles from 16S ribosomal RNA genes and over 3.5 terabases of metagenomic sequence so far. In parallel, approximately 800 reference strains isolated from the human body have been sequenced. Collectively, these data represent the largest resource describing the abundance and variety of the human microbiome, while providing a framework for current and future studies.
The association between socioeconomic characteristics and consumption of food items among Brazilian industry workers.	Dietary pattern plays a causative role in the rising of noncommunicable diseases. The SESI (Serviço Social da Indústria) study was designed to evaluate risk factors for noncommunicable diseases. We aimed to describe food items consumed by Brazilian workers and to assess their association with socioeconomic status.
Correlation of dynamic PET and gene array data in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors.	The results obtained with dynamic PET (dPET) were compared to gene expression data obtained in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). The primary aim was to assess the association of the dPET results and gene expression data.
The inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of passive physiological accessory movement assessment of lumbar spine in novice manual therapists.	Passive Physiological Accessory Movements (PPAVMs) are commonly used assessment and treatment techniques in patients with low back pain. Many physiotherapists, including novices, consider PPAVMs an important tool for assessment and treatment of low back pain. Reliability is important as a judgement on the reproducibility of assessment procedures between therapists. However, the reliability of PPAVMs seems to have some problems, and reliability of PPAVMs has not yet been established amongst novice manual therapists. This study aimed at investigating inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of PPAVMs in novice physiotherapists. Fifty two healthy participants were recruited for the study. PPAVMs were applied by two novice physiotherapists and accessory movements were assessed, and both the raters were blinded from each others' findings to avoid bias. The mobility was graded on a three point scale with grade 1 being considered as hypomobile, 2 as normal and 3 as hypermobile. This procedure was performed on all five lumbar segments. Each participant was assessed on the same day for inter-rater reliability, and for intra-rater reliability the participant was assessed by one rater a week later. Kappa (κ) was calculated for all the levels of lumbar spine which ranged between 0.01 and 0.30 for inter-rater reliability and 0.24 to 0.57 for intra-rater reliability. Percentage exact agreement was also computed which showed a range between 38.4% and 57.6%. The values of 'κ' showed poor intra-rater and inter-rater reliability. However, further research is advisable in order to assess the role of experience in reproducibility of PPAVMs.
Survey of billing and coding for counterstrain tender points.	The names of certain counterstrain tender points are incongruent with their physical locations because of an assumption that these points are reflective of dysfunction in neighboring body areas. Because the body area that is physically examined does not always match the body region in which somatic dysfunction is diagnosed for these tender points, it is not always clear which evaluation and management service codes should be used for billing physician services.
Pathways to children's externalizing behavior: a three-generation study.	In this study, based on Family Interactional Theory (FIT), the authors tested a longitudinal model of the intergenerational effects of the grandmothers' parent-child relationships and the grandparents' smoking on the grandchildren's externalizing behavior via parents' psychological symptoms, tobacco use, and child rearing. Using Mplus, the authors obtained a structural equation model that demonstrated generational associations from grandmothers (G1) to parents (G2) to their oldest children (G3) and thus was in accord with FIT. They identified a pathway from the grandmothers' parenting to the grandchildren's externalizing behavior via the parents' psychological symptoms, their smoking, and their child rearing. Parents' psychological symptoms in adolescence were associated with their tobacco use in their late twenties, controlling for the continuity of their psychological symptoms and their tobacco use. This 3-generational model adds to the literature on parent-child relationships (G1), smoking from adolescence to early adulthood (G2), and externalizing behavior in the G3 child.
Brain tissue modifications induced by cholinergic therapy in Alzheimer's disease.	A previous preliminary investigation based on a novel MRI approach to map anatomical connectivity revealed areas of increased connectivity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) but not in mild cognitive impairment patients. This prompted the hypothesis tested here, that these areas might reflect phenomena of brain plasticity driven by acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs). Thirty-eight patients with probable AD (19 under medication with AChEIs and 19 drug-naïve) were recruited together with 11 healthy controls. All subjects had MRI scanning at 3T, including volumetric and diffusion-weighted scans. Probabilistic tractography was used to initiate streamlines from all parenchymal voxels, and anatomical connectivity maps (ACMs) were obtained by counting, among the total number of streamlines initiated, the fraction passing through each brain voxel. After normalization into standard space, ACMs were used to test for between-group comparisons, and for interactions between the exposure to AChEIs and global level of cognition. Patients with AD had reduced ACM values in the fornix, cingulum, and supramarginal gyri. The ACM value was strongly associated with the AChEI dosage-x-duration product in the anterior limb (non-motor pathway) of the internal capsule. Tractography from this region identified the anterior thalamic radiation as the main white matter (WM) tract passing through it. The reduced connectivity in WM bundles connecting the hippocampi with the rest of the brain (fornix/cingulum) suggests a possible mechanism for the spread of AD pathology. An intriguing explanation for the interaction between AChEIs and ACM is related to the mechanisms of brain plasticity, partially driven by neurotrophic properties of acetylcholine replacement.
Reliability and validity of A Quick Test of Cognitive Speed for detecting early-stage dementia in elderly Japanese.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the reliability and validity of A Quick Test of Cognitive Speed (AQT) for detecting early-stage dementia in the elderly Japanese population.
TCF7L2 polymorphism and cognitive test performance in cardiovascular disease.	The present study examines cognitive function among transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) genotype groups in a sample of older adults with cardiovascular disease.
Validity and reliability of a scale to measure genital body image.	Women's body image dissatisfaction extends to body parts usually hidden from view--their genitals. Ability to measure genital body image is limited by lack of valid and reliable questionnaires. We subjected a previously developed questionnaire, the Genital Self Image Scale (GSIS) to psychometric testing using a variety of methods.
Metabolite investigation in both anterior and posterior cingulate gyri in Alzheimer's disease spectrum using 3-tesla MR spectroscopy.	In order to evaluate the metabolite changes of both anterior and posterior cingulate gyri during the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, a 3-tesla MR spectroscopy study was performed.
CSF biomarkers correlate with cerebral blood flow on SPECT in healthy elderly.	The preclinical patterns of biological markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in vivo need further exploration. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate CSF biomarkers, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cognitive performance in cognitively healthy older individuals.
Affectivity and alexithymia: two dimensions explicative of the relationship between anxiety and depressive symptoms]	The main objective of this study was to support the existence of emotional dimensions common to anxiety and depressive symptomatology, and confirm the common elements of emotional vulnerability, characterized by negative affectivity and alexithymia. The second objective of this study was the identification of characteristics specific to each disorder. We made three assumptions: there is a significant relationship between anxiety and depressive symptoms, exists on community processes between these two entities, objectified by the sub dimensions of negative affectivity and the difficulty in identifying emotions certain dimensions are specific to each disorder.
Two types of typicality: rethinking the role of statistical typicality in ordinary causal attributions.	Recent work on the role of norms in the use of causal language by ordinary people has led to a consensus among several researchers: The consensus position is that causal attributions are sensitive to both statistical norms and prescriptive norms. But what is a statistical norm? We argue that there are at least two types that should be distinguished--agent-level statistical norms and population-level statistical norms. We then suggest an alternative account of ordinary causal attributions about agents (the responsibility view), noting that this view motivates divergent predictions about the effect of information about each of the two types of statistical norms noted. Further, these predictions run counter to those made by the consensus position. With this set-up in place, we present the results of a series of new experimental studies testing our predictions. The results are in line with the responsibility view, while indicating that the consensus position is seriously mistaken.
Inter-relationships among physical activity, body fat, and motor performance in 6- to 8-year-old Danish children.	This study examined the interrelationships among physical activity (PA), percent body fat (%BF), and motor performance (MP) in 498 6- to 8-year-old Danish children. PA was assessed by accelerometer, %BF was calculated from skinfolds, and the Koordinations Test für Kinder along with a throwing accuracy test was used to assess MP. PA was not correlated with %BF, but was significantly correlated with MP. The strongest correlations existed between %BF and MP. Low %BF/High PA had higher MP scores compared with High %BF/Low PA, and within the High %BF groups MP was higher in the High PA versus Low PA group. When comparing PA by %BF and MP groups, boys in the Low %BF/High MP had higher PA than both the Low %BF/Low MP and High %BF/Low MP groups. In girls, PA was highest in the High %BF/High MP group. This study highlights the complex interrelationships among PA, %BF, and MP in children and the need to develop fundamental motor skills during childhood.
Effects of caffeine on anaerobic exercise in boys.	The effects of caffeine on anaerobic exercise in young boys was investigated. Twenty-four healthy 8-10 year old boys participated in a randomized double-blind, double-crossover, counter-balanced study. Each subject received the caffeinated drink (CAF--5 mg · kg(-1)) or placebo (PL) twice each on four separate visits. Sixty minutes following ingestion of either CAF or PL boys performed a static hand-grip test and then a Wingate test. Reliability was moderately high for the Wingate test (R = .70-0.95). Hand-grip reliability was higher for CAF (R = .88) than PL (R = .52). Mean power (180 ± 36 vs 173 ± 28 W) was significantly higher (p < .05) in CAF versus PL, respectively. There were no differences in peak power or static hand-grip maximal voluntary contraction with CAF. Further, peak HR (190 ± 10 vs 185 ± 10 beats · min(-1)) was significantly higher in CAF versus PL, respectively. Thus, in this study a moderately high dose of CAF significantly increased the average power during a Wingate test, yet it does not affect peak power or static hand-grip strength.
Influence of training status and maturity on pulmonary O2 uptake recovery kinetics following cycle and upper body exercise in girls.	The influence of training status on pulmonary VO(2) recovery kinetics, and its interaction with maturity, has not been investigated in young girls. Sixteen prepubertal (Pre: trained (T, 11.4 ± 0.7 years), 8 untrained (UT, 11.5 ± 0.6 years)) and 8 pubertal (Pub: 8T, 14.2 ± 0.7 years; 8 UT, 14.5 ± 1.3 years) girls completed repeat transitions from heavy intensity exercise to a baseline of unloaded exercise, on both an upper and lower body ergometer. The VO2 recovery time constant was significantly shorter in the trained prepubertal and pubertal girls during both cycle (Pre: T, 26 ± 4 vs. UT, 32 ± 6; Pub: T, 28 ± 2 vs. UT, 35 ± 7 s; both p < .05) and upper body exercise (Pre: T, 26 ± 4 vs. UT, 35 ± 6; Pub: T, 30 ± 4 vs. UT, 42 ± 3 s; both p < .05). No interaction was evident between training status and maturity. These results demonstrate the sensitivity of VO(2) recovery kinetics to training in young girls and challenge the notion of a "maturational threshold" in the influence of training status on the physiological responses to exercise and recovery.
Patterning of affective responses during a graded exercise test in children and adolescents.	Past studies have shown the patterning of affective responses during a graded exercise test (GXT) in adult and male adolescent populations, but none have explored the patterns in adolescent girls or younger children. This study explored the patterning of affective responses during a GXT in adolescents and younger children. Forty-nine children (21 male and 28 female) aged between 8-14 years (10.8 ± 1.8 years) completed a GXT. Ventilatory threshold (VT) was identified. At the end of each incremental step, participants reported affective valence. Results revealed that affective valence assessed by the Feeling Scale (FS) significantly declined from the onset of exercise until the point of VT in the younger children, but remained relatively stable in the adolescents. Exercise above the VT brought about significant declines in affective valence regardless of age or sex, but the decrease was significantly greater in adolescents. Results suggest it may be preferable to prescribe lower exercise intensities (below VT) for children, compared with adolescents, to ensure a positive affective response.
Evaluation of adolescent swimmers through a 30-s tethered test.	Our purpose was to demonstrate that 30-s tethered swimming test can be a useful tool to estimate swimming performance in short distance freestyle events. Thirteen high level adolescent swimmers (7 male and 6 female of 16.6 ± 1.0 and 15.8 ± 0.8 years old) performed a 30-s maximum effort in front crawl tethered swimming. Afterward, subjects completed 50-m and 100-m freestyle events at the National Championships. Both maximum and mean force values obtained in the tethered test related directly with 50-m (r = .78 and r = .72, p < .01, respectively) and 100-m freestyle velocities (r = .63 and r = .61, p < .05, respectively). Fatigue index did not present a significant relationship with any of the studied performance variables. However, a proposed parameter--fatigue slope-correlated with 50-m (r = -.75, p < .01), 100-m performances (r = -.57, p < .05) and with r[La-] (r = -.90, p < .01). It is concluded that, for adolescent swimmers, values obtained from 30-s tethered test are well related with swimming performance in sprint events. In addition, fatigue slope seems to be more associated with swimming performance in short distance events than fatigue index.
Postural instability and cognitive dysfunction in early Parkinson's disease.	Postural instability is one of the most disabling features of Parkinson's disease, usually occurring in late and advanced stages. The aim of this study was to investigate the postural performance of early-stage de novo Parkinson's disease patients with no clinical postural instability using computerized dynamic posturography. We sought to understand the relationship between postural sway and disease severity and the relationship between postural instability quantitatively measured by computerized dynamic posturography and cognitive impairment in early-stage Parkinson's disease patients.
Inquiring into our past: when the doctor is a survivor of abuse.	Health care professionals like other adults have a substantial exposure to childhood and adult victimization, but the prevalence of abuse experiences among practicing family physicians has not been examined. Also unclear is the impact of such personal experiences of abuse on physicians' screening practices for childhood abuse among their patients and the personal and professional barriers to such screening.
Routine hearing screening in primary care for adult populations using distortion product Otoacoustic Emissions testing.	The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of undiagnosed hearing loss in adults in two busy primary care rural health centers.
Gender differences in risky sexual behavior among urban adolescents exposed to violence.	The purpose of this study was to use an ecological lens to explore gender differences in risky sexual behavior among urban adolescents exposed to violence.
Identifying the barriers to use of standardized nursing language in the electronic health record by the ambulatory care nurse practitioner.	This study identified the perceived user barriers to documentation of nursing practice utilizing standardized nursing language (SNL) in the electronic health record (EHR) by ambulatory care nurse practitioners (NPs).
A comparison of 2 techniques for measuring rectus femoris muscle thickness in cerebral palsy.	: Precise measures of muscle size are useful when investigating weakness in children with cerebral palsy (CP). Therefore, the purpose of the study was to determine agreement between 2 muscle thickness measurements of the rectus femoris (RF) in CP.
Development of reference values for the Functional Mobility Assessment.	To obtain reference values for healthy participants performing the Functional Mobility Assessment (FMA). The FMA is a reliable and valid tool used to examine functional abilities subjectively and objectively in patients with lower-extremity sarcoma in all components of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health model (body function, activity, and participation).
Development of the Early Activity Scale for Endurance for children with cerebral palsy.	The Early Activity Scale for Endurance (EASE) was developed as a clinically feasible measure of endurance for physical activity in young children with cerebral palsy (CP). Validity and reliability were evaluated.
The effect of knowledge translation procedures on application of information from a continuing education conference.	This study investigated the effect of knowledge translation procedures as part of a continuing education conference for pediatric physical therapists on knowledge and frequency of use of tests and measures.
A pilot study to profile the lower limb musculoskeletal health in children with obesity.	: Evidence suggests a negative effect of obesity on musculoskeletal health in children. A pilot study was undertaken to investigate the presence of musculoskeletal impairments in children with obesity and to explore the relationships among body mass index, physical activity, and musculoskeletal measures.
Piloting an outcome-based programme evaluation tool in undergraduate medical education.	Different approaches to performance-oriented allocation of resources according to teaching quality are currently being discussed within German medical schools. The implementation of these programmes is impeded by a lack of valid criteria to measure teaching quality. An assessment of teaching quality should include structural and procedural aspects but focus on learning outcome itself. The aim of this study was to implement a novel, outcome-based evaluation tool within the clinical phase of a medical curriculum and address differences between the novel tool and traditional evaluation methods.
Visualizing health data with micromaps.	Maps have long been used to display the geographic patterns of disease. Identification of cancer "hot spots", clusters of high rates, and subsequent speculation as to their cause led to important epidemiologic findings such as a link between smokeless tobacco use and oral cancer. Recent advances in computer systems have made interactive display of spatial data possible on everyone's desktop. In this paper, we describe how spatial patterns of disease and local characteristics can be examined visually and simultaneously using graphics called micromaps. These are graphics that link statistical information to an organized set of small maps in order to explore and communicate patterns in the outcome variable, related covariates, geographic locations and the associations among them. Three types of micromaps are described and illustrated: linked, conditioned and comparative.
Diagnosing and quantification of acute alcohol intoxication--comparison of dual-energy CT with biochemical analysis: initial experience.	To quantify the correlation between fat content of an acute alcohol intoxication and the difference of computer tomography attenuation value in dual-energy CT in comparison to biochemical triglyceride analysis and to evaluate qualitatively the value of DECT in the diagnosis of fatty liver caused by ethanol-dosage in rats.
The dynamic nature of contact networks in infectious disease epidemiology.	Although contact network models have yielded important insights into infectious disease transmission and control throughout the last decade, researchers have just begun to explore the dynamic nature of contact patterns and their epidemiological significance. Most network models have assumed that contacts are static through time. Developing more realistic models of the social interactions that underlie the spread of infectious diseases thus remains an important challenge for both data gatherers and modelers. In this article, we review some recent data-driven and process-driven approaches that capture the dynamics of human contact, and discuss future challenges for the field.
Right hippocampal pathology inhibits the Flynn effect in temporal lobe epilepsy.	If brain pathology impedes the mechanisms that drive the Flynn effect, the gap between the mean IQ of patient groups and the general population will increase over successive generations. We examined the IQs of a large series of patients aged between 18 and 35 years, with homogenous underlying brain pathology tested over two decades, for evidence of a Flynn effect; 381 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and unilateral hippocampal sclerosis (n = 221 left hippocampal sclerosis, LHS; n = 160 right hippocampal sclerosis, RHS) completed the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales. Patients assessed between 1990 and 2000 were assessed on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R; n = 234). Patients assessed between 2001 and 2011 were assessed on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III; n = 147). The IQ scores were adjusted for the progressive obsolescence of norms using the following equation: adjusted IQ = recorded IQ - (estimated magnitude of Flynn effect in the normal population x years since test was normed, at the time of assessment). In the RHS group there was a significant negative correlation between the year of assessment and the adjusted Verbal IQ (r = -.18, p < .05) and adjusted Performance IQ (r = -.20, p < .01). There were no significant correlations between the adjusted IQ scores and the year of assessment in the LHS group. Our data suggest that the gap between the mean IQ in the general population and that in patients with right hippocampal pathology is widening in successive generations. The findings are discussed in relation to the current theories regarding the mechanisms that drive the Flynn effect.
Long-term effects of cranial irradiation and intrathecal chemotherapy in treatment of childhood leukemia: a MEG study of power spectrum and correlated cognitive dysfunction.	Prophylaxis to prevent relapses in the central nervous system after childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) used to consist of both intrathecal chemotherapy (CT) and cranial irradiation (CRT). CRT was mostly abolished in the eighties because of its neurotoxicity, and replaced with more intensive intrathecal CT. In this study, a group of survivors treated with CRT before 1983 and another group treated without CRT thereafter are investigated 20-25 years later, giving a much stronger perspective on long-term quality of life than previous studies. The outcomes will help to better understand these groups' current needs and will aid in anticipating late effects of prophylactic CRT that is currently applied for other diseases. This study evaluates oscillatory neuronal activity in these long-term survivors. Power spectrum deviations are hypothesized to correlate with cognitive dysfunction.
Formulation development and statistical optimization of chronotherapeutic tablets of indometacin.	Chronotherapeutic drug delivery offers a new approach in the pharmacologic interventions design for the effective treatment in the diseases which follows circadian rhythm. In the present study chronotherapeutic tablets of indometacin was designed to match the timing of rheumatoid arthritis treatment with the intrinsic illness timing. The developed chronotherapeutic delivery system consists of a core tablet containing the active ingredient along with osmogents and other excipients, which was coated with a swellable polymer, hydroxyl propyl methyl cellulose by compression coating technique. The time controlled release was achieved by coating the entire system with a combination of pH-independent polymer, Eudragit RS 100 and Eudragit RL 100 (1:1). The optimization technique using Box-Behnken design was employed for the selection of the ideal formula. The optimization procedure was validated, and the observed value of the ideal batch was found to be similar with the predicted values within 5% of predicted error. The formulation when administered at bed time starts releasing the drug after a lag time of 4 h and provides sufficient plasma concentration after 6 h of normal sleep. Thus, the tablets can be successfully used for the chronotherapeutic drug delivery of indometacin in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. 
A new viewpoint on the evolution of sexually dimorphic human faces.	Human faces show marked sexual shape dimorphism, and this affects their attractiveness. Humans also show marked height dimorphism, which means that men typically view women's faces from slightly above and women typically view men's faces from slightly below. We tested the idea that this perspective difference may be the evolutionary origin of the face shape dimorphism by having males and females rate the masculinity/femininity and attractiveness of male and female faces that had been manipulated in pitch (forward or backward tilt), simulating viewing the face from slightly above or below. As predicted, tilting female faces upwards decreased their perceived femininity and attractiveness, whereas tilting them downwards increased their perceived femininity and attractiveness. Male faces tilted up were judged to be more masculine, and tilted down judged to be less masculine. This suggests that sexual selection may have embodied this viewpoint difference into the actual facial proportions of men and women.
High religiosity and societal dysfunction in the United States during the first decade of the twenty-first century.	This study provides independent empirical evidence that bears upon the truth or falsity of recently formulated hypotheses regarding reciprocal relationships between levels of religiosity and societal dysfunction. Gregory S. Paul's findings, published in the Journal of Religion and Society (2005), Free Inquiry (2008), and Evolutionary Psychology (2009), have demonstrated that high degrees of theism are associated with high degrees of societal dysfunction among the prosperous democracies. Whereas his research employs numerous scatter diagrams and bivariate correlations involving measures of religiosity and societal dysfunction pertaining to 17 nation states, the current study's units of analysis are the 50 states and the District of Columbia. Additionally, the utilization of multiple regression analysis allows the detection of the effects of other potentially relevant explanatory variables, such as educational attainment, income level, and race. The findings are only minimally supportive of Paul's hypotheses regarding the contributions of high religiosity to societal dysfunction and to the effects of societal dysfunction upon religiosity. Simultaneously, the results of correlational and regression analyses attest to the more substantial explanatory power of the social inequality variables of education, income, and race. Accordingly, it is argued that "American Exceptionalism," when understood as referring to a society manifesting the coexistence of high levels of theism and high levels of societal dysfunction, is best explained by the United States' high degree of social inequality, compared with other modern industrialized democracies.
Modulation of affective face processing deficits in Schizophrenia by congruent emotional sounds.	Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder resulting in prominent impairments in social functioning. Thus, clinical research has focused on underlying deficits of emotion processing and their linkage to specific symptoms and neurobiological dysfunctions. Although there is substantial research investigating impairments in unimodal affect recognition, studies in schizophrenia exploring crossmodal emotion processing are rare. Therefore, event-related potentials were measured in 15 patients with schizophrenia and 15 healthy controls while rating the expression of happy, fearful and neutral faces and concurrently being distracted by emotional or neutral sounds. Compared with controls, patients with schizophrenia revealed significantly decreased P1 and increased P2 amplitudes in response to all faces, independent of emotion or concurrent sound. Analyzing these effects with regard to audiovisual (in)congruence revealed that P1 amplitudes in patients were only reduced in response to emotionally incongruent stimulus pairs, whereas similar amplitudes between groups could be observed for congruent conditions. Correlation analyses revealed a significant negative correlation between general symptom severity (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale-V4) and P1 amplitudes in response to congruent audiovisual stimulus pairs. These results indicate that early visual processing deficits in schizophrenia are apparent during emotion processing but, depending on symptom severity, these deficits can be restored by presenting concurrent emotionally congruent sounds. 
Isolation rearing attenuates social interaction-induced expression of immediate early gene protein products in the medial prefrontal cortex of male and female rats.	Early life adversity and stress in humans have been related to a number of psychological disorders including anxiety, depression, and addiction. The present study used isolation rearing, a well-characterized animal model of early life adversity, to examine its effects on social behavior and immediate early gene (IEG) expression produced by exposure to a novel social experience. Male and female rats were housed in same-sex groups or in isolation for 4 weeks beginning at weaning and were tested during late adolescence. The protein products of the IEGs c-fos and Arc, as well as the neurotrophic factor BDNF were assessed in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) subregions (anterior cingulate, prelimbic and infralimbic) using immunohistochemistry. Aggressive and non-aggressive behaviors during novel social exposure were also assessed. Exposure to a novel conspecific produced increases in Arc and c-fos activation in the mPFC of group reared animals in a sex- and subregion-dependent fashion compared to no social exposure controls, but this increase was blunted or absent in isolated animals. Isolates engaged in more social interactions and more aggressive behavior than group reared rats. Sex differences in some behaviors as well as in Arc and BDNF expression were observed. These results indicate that isolation rearing alters IEG activation in the mPFC produced by exposure to a novel conspecific, in addition to changing social behavior, and that these effects depend in part on sex.
Correlation of proteome-wide changes with social immunity behaviors provides insight into resistance to the parasitic mite, Varroa destructor, in the honey bee (Apis mellifera).	Disease is a major factor driving the evolution of many organisms. In honey bees, selection for social behavioral responses is the primary adaptive process facilitating disease resistance. One such process, hygienic behavior, enables bees to resist multiple diseases, including the damaging parasitic mite Varroa destructor. The genetic elements and biochemical factors that drive the expression of these adaptations are currently unknown. Proteomics provides a tool to identify proteins that control behavioral processes, and these proteins can be used as biomarkers to aid identification of disease tolerant colonies.
Astrogliosis during acute and chronic cuprizone demyelination and implications for remyelination.	In multiple sclerosis, microglia/macrophage activation and astrocyte reactivity are important components of the lesion environment that can impact remyelination. The current study characterizes these glial populations relative to expression of candidate regulatory molecules in cuprizone demyelinated corpus callosum. Importantly, periods of recovery after acute or chronic cuprizone demyelination are examined to compare conditions of efficient versus limited remyelination, respectively. Microglial activation attenuates after early demyelination. In contrast, astrocyte reactivity persists throughout demyelination and a 6-week recovery period following either acute or chronic demyelination. This astrocyte reaction is characterized by (a) early proliferation, (b) increased expression of GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein), Vim (vimentin), Fn1 (fibronectin) and CSPGs (chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans) and (c) elaboration of a dense network of processes. Glial processes elongated in the axonal plane persist throughout lesion areas during both the robust remyelination that follows acute demyelination and the partial remyelination that follows chronic demyelination. However, prolonged astrocyte reactivity with chronic cuprizone treatment does not progress to barrier formation, i.e. dense compaction of astrocyte processes to wall off the lesion area. Multiple candidate growth factors and inflammatory signals in the lesion environment show strong correlations with GFAP across the acute cuprizone demyelination and recovery time course, yet there is more divergence across the progression of chronic cuprizone demyelination and recovery. However, differential glial scar formation does not appear to be responsible for differential remyelination during recovery in the cuprizone model. The astrocyte phenotype and lesion characteristics in this demyelination model inform studies to identify triggers of non-remyelinating sclerosis in chronic multiple sclerosis lesions.
Cryptogenic cirrhosis: metabolic liver disease due to insulin resistance.	Etiopathogenesis of cryptogenic cirrhosis (CC) is not yet well established. Up to 20% of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) may progress to cirrhosis, mostly termed as cryptogenic. Insulin resistance and altered metabolic parameters form a major pathogenic link between NAFLD and CC. CC may thus be actually a metabolic liver disease.
Expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells negatively correlates with disease severity in psoriasis vulgaris.	Psoriasis vulgaris is considered a chronic inflammatory disease, but its immunopathogenesis has not been well understood. The tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (TNFAIP3) gene functions in negative-feedback regulation of inflammation, and its single nucleotide polymorphism is associated with psoriasis. However, the relationship between the expression level of the TNFAIP3 gene in immune cells and psoriasis is not known so far. In the present study, TNFAIP3 mRNA expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 44 patients with psoriasis vulgaris and 30 healthy controls were determined using real-time reverse transcription-PCR analysis. We found that expression of TNFAIP3 mRNA in all patients negatively correlated with the psoriatic area and severity index (PASI) (r = -0.5126; P = 0.0004) as well as with the percentage of body surface area affected by psoriasis (r = -0.5013; P = 0.0005). Patients were divided into mild and severe groups based on the mean PASI score. Expression of TNFAIP3 mRNA in the mild group was higher than that in the severe group (P = 0.0064). Moreover, compared with that in healthy controls, the expression of TNFAIP3 mRNA in the mild group was significantly upregulated (P = 0.0004), but the expression of TNFAIP3 mRNA in the severe group was not. These results suggest that the expression level of TNFAIP3 plays an important role in the pathology of psoriasis vulgaris and that the loss of upregulation of TNFAIP3 expression may contribute to the severity of psoriasis vulgaris.
Coated hydralazine hydrochloride beads for sustained release after oral administration.	Hydralazine hydrochloride is an antihypertensive used alone or in combination with isosorbide nitrate for the treatment of congestive heart failure. Since control of blood pressure should be continuous, sustained release delivery of this drug is considered therapeutically beneficial. Core beads for oral administration of this drug were prepared by extrusion-spheronization. Using experimental design to define the coat that was applied, the core beads were coated using a fluid bed coater to different coat thickness with combinations of two commercially available products dissolved in a hydroalcoholic solvent. The coat is a film with a combination of ethylcellulose and hydroxypropylcellulose that can provide desirable release profiles. Visually spherical and rugged bead products were obtained. Two products were identified that exhibited essentially a zero order release profile following a 2-h lag time with release of greater than 70% of the drug over the next 10 h in simulated intestinal fluid. 
The role of frequent, interactive prekindergarten shared reading in the longitudinal development of language and literacy skills.	In this study, we examined the longitudinal relations between frequency and features of reading experiences within the preschool classroom to children's language and literacy outcomes in kindergarten and 1st grade. Frequency refers to the number of shared reading sessions conducted each week as measured by teachers' written reading logs recorded across the academic year. Features refers to teachers' extratextual talk about literal, inferential, or print or phonological topics as assessed by analysis of 6 videotaped readings of narrative and informational texts collected across the preschool year. Participants were 28 preschool teachers and 178 children. The children were largely at risk and randomly selected from among those in each classroom to complete longitudinal assessments. In preschool, results showed that the frequency of classroom shared reading was positively and significantly related to children's receptive vocabulary growth, as was the inclusion of extratextual conversations around the text; only extratextual conversations related to children's preschool literacy growth. There was no evidence of differential influences of these experiences for children; that is, the relationship between frequency or features and children's language and literacy development was not moderated by children's initial skill level. Longitudinally, extratextual talk during preschool shared reading remained associated with children's vocabulary skills through kindergarten, with trends toward significance extending to 1st grade literacy skills. The frequency of preschool shared reading was not a significant predictor of longitudinal outcomes.
A practical guide to quality improvement in nuclear medicine.	Innovations and improvements in the field of nuclear medicine have created remarkable image accuracy and detail, which allow physicians to better diagnose disease. This ability has led to dramatic differences in patient care. To ensure that these diagnoses are reliable, imaging facilities must constantly monitor and seek to improve their practices. Quality improvement is a formal process of examining and improving performance through the analysis of data with the primary goal of enhancing patient care. Quality improvement activities in a nuclear medicine laboratory should emphasize accuracy and efficiency, patient and staff safety, and the patient's experience during care. Quality improvement in the nuclear medicine laboratory can potentially reduce the number of studies that need to be repeated because of poor quality, increase diagnostic accuracy, reduce radiation exposure, increase patient satisfaction, and save resources. This article will review the process of quality improvement; provide detailed, step-by-step instructions with special emphasis on project selection and data collection; and show examples of how to perform quality improvement projects.
Relationship between left ventricular longitudinal deformation and clinical heart failure during admission for acute myocardial infarction: a two-dimensional speckle-tracking study.	Heart failure (HF) complicating acute myocardial infarction (MI) is an ominous prognostic sign frequently caused by left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction. However, many patients develop HF despite preserved LV ejection fractions. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that LV longitudinal function is a stronger marker of in-hospital HF than traditional echocardiographic indices.
Enhanced exoglucanase production by brown rot fungus Fomitopsis sp. RCK2010 and its application for cellulose saccharification.	Exoglucanase production by brown rot fungus Fomitopsis sp. RCK2010 was optimized under solid-state fermentation using Plackett-Burman design (PBD) and response surface methodology (RSM). Four fermentation variables (moisture, inoculum level, casein, and Triton X-100) were identified to effect cellulase production significantly by PBD, which were further optimized using RSM of central composite design. An overall 130 % increase in enzyme production was achieved by the optimization of variables using statistical approaches. Moreover, crude cellulase from Fomitopsis sp. RCK2010 was applied to saccharify pretreated Prosopis juliflora (cellulosic fraction), which resulted in the release of 327.35 mg/g of reducing sugars that could further be utilized for bioethanol production.
Association between epilepsy and cysticercosis and toxocariasis: a population-based case-control study in a slum in India.	To assess the association between epilepsy and exposure to the parasites, Toxocara canis and Taenia solium in a slum-community in India.
Metabolic sequences of anaerobic fermentation on glucose-based feeding substrates based on correlation analyses of microbial and metabolite profiling.	Degradation processes in various biomasses are managed by complex metabolic dynamics created by diverse and extensive interactions and competition in microbial communities and their environments. It is important to develop visualization methods to provide a bird's-eye view when characterizing the entire sequential metabolic process in an environmental ecosystem. Here, we describe an approach for the visualization of the metabolic sequences in anaerobic fermentation ecosystems, characterizing the entire metabolic dynamics using a combination of microbial community profiles and metabolic profiles. By evaluating their time-dependent variation, we found that microbial community profiles and metabolite production processes were characteristically affected by the feeding of different glucose-based substrates (glucose, starch, cellulose), although the compositions of the major microbial community and the metabolites detected were likely to be similar in all experiments. This combinatorial approach to variation in microbial communities and metabolic profiles was used successfully to visualize metabolic sequences in anaerobic fermentation ecosystems, in addition to mining candidate microbiota for cellulose degradation. Thus, this approach provides a powerful tool for visualizing and evaluating metabolic sequences within the biomass degradation process in an environmental ecosystem. This is the first report to visualize the entire metabolic dynamic in an anaerobic fermentation ecosystem as metabolic sequences.
Impact of adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction on radiation dose in evaluation of trauma patients.	A recent study showed that computed tomographic (CT) scans contributed 93% of radiation exposure of 177 patients admitted to our Level I trauma center. Adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction (ASIR) is an algorithm that reduces the noise level in reconstructed images and therefore allows the use of less ionizing radiation during CT scans without significantly affecting image quality. ASIR was instituted on all CT scans performed on trauma patients in June 2009. Our objective was to determine if implementation of ASIR reduced radiation dose without compromising patient outcomes.
Obesity disparities among elementary-aged children: data from school-based BMI surveillance.	To examine 3-year trends and spatial clustering in the prevalence of obesity among elementary-aged children in Pennsylvania.
Attachment style is associated with perceived spouse responses and pain-related outcomes.	Attachment theory can provide a heuristic model for examining factors that may influence the relationship of social context to adjustment in chronic pain. This study examined the associations of attachment style with self-reported pain behavior, pain intensity, disability, depression, and perceived spouse responses to pain behavior. We also examined whether attachment style moderates associations between perceived spouse responses and self-reported pain behavior and depressive symptoms, as well as perceived spouse responses as a mediator of these associations.
Persistent and anti-persistent pattern in stride-to-stride variability of treadmill walking: influence of rhythmic auditory cueing.	It has been observed that long time series of Stride Time (ST), Stride Length (SL) and Stride Speed (SS=SL/ST) exhibited statistical persistence (long-range auto-correlation) in overground walking. Rhythmic auditory cueing induced anti-persistent (or anti-correlated) patterns in ST series, while SL and SS remained persistent. On the other hand, it has been shown that SS became anti-persistent in treadmill walking, while ST and SL remained persistent. The aim of this study was to analyze the effect of the combination of treadmill walking (imposed speed) and auditory cueing (imposed cadence) on gait dynamics. Twenty middle-aged subjects performed 6×5 min walking trials at various imposed speeds on an instrumented treadmill. Freely chosen walking cadences were measured during the first three trials, and then imposed accordingly in the last three trials by using a metronome. Detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA) was performed on the times series of ST, SL, and SS. Treadmill induced anti-persistent dynamics in the time series of SS, but preserved the persistence of ST and SL. On the contrary, all the three parameters were anti-persistent under dual-constraints condition. Anti-persistent dynamics may be related to a tighter control: deviations are followed by a rapid over-correction, which produces oscillations around target values. Under single constraint condition, while SS is tightly regulated in order to follow the treadmill speed, redundancy between ST and SL would likely allow persistent pattern to occur. Conversely, under dual constraint conditions, the absence of redundancy among SL, ST and SS would explain the generalized anti-persistent pattern.
Distress associated with patients' symptoms and depression in a sample of Mexican caregivers of individuals with MS.	The objectives of this quantitative correlational study were to: (a) determine the frequency and level of distress associated with patients' symptoms as reported by caregivers of individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS), (b) determine the prevalence of depression in these caregivers, and (c) examine the relationship between these caregivers' total symptom distress and depression after controlling for patient, caregiver, and illness characteristics.
Traumatic brain injury, executive functioning, and suicidal behavior: a brief report.	The aim of this pilot study was to explore the relationship between executive dysfunction and suicidal behavior in two groups of participants: (Group 1, n = 18) veterans with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and a history of at least one suicide attempt (SA), and (Group 2, n = 29) veterans with TBI and no history of SA. Controlling for the severity of TBI, it was hypothesized that participants in Group 1 would perform more poorly than those in Group 2 on measures of executive functioning.
On improving the communication between models and data.	The potential for model-data synthesis is growing in importance as we enter an era of 'big data', greater connectivity and faster computation. Realizing this potential requires that the research community broaden its perspective about how and why they interact with models. Models can be viewed as scaffolds that allow data at different scales to inform each other through our understanding of underlying processes. Perceptions of relevance, accessibility and informatics are presented as the primary barriers to broader adoption of models by the community, while an inability to fully utilize the breadth of expertise and data from the community is a primary barrier to model improvement. Overall, we promote a community-based paradigm to model-data synthesis and highlight some of the tools and techniques that facilitate this approach. Scientific workflows address critical informatics issues in transparency, repeatability and automation, while intuitive, flexible web-based interfaces make running and visualizing models more accessible. Bayesian statistics provides powerful tools for assimilating a diversity of data types and for the analysis of uncertainty. Uncertainty analyses enable new measurements to target those processes most limiting our predictive ability. Moving forward, tools for information management and data assimilation need to be improved and made more accessible. 
Differences in vancomycin MIC among MRSA isolates by agar dilution and E test method.	In this study, the correlation between vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) obtained by the E test technique and the Clinical And Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) agar dilution method was evaluated. A total of 53 Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) strains were tested by both the methods in the present study. MICs of vancomycin obtained by the E test method were consistently higher (+0.5 to 2 log2 dilutions) than those obtained by the agar dilution method. Out of 53 MRSA isolates, 49 isolates showed higher MIC results by E test than by agar dilution method. Three isolates showed same MIC result by both methods. Since many studies have demonstrated increased clinical failure with MRSA isolates for which vancomycin MICs are increased (>1 μg/ml) but still within the susceptibility range (≤ 2 μg/ml), our findings suggest the requirement to re-look into the breakpoints for vancomycin for determining sensitivity of MRSA isolates. Guidelines should also specify the method to be used for determining the MIC.
Protective factors can mitigate behavior problems after prenatal cocaine and other drug exposures.	We determined the role of risk and protective factors on the trajectories of behavior problems associated with high prenatal cocaine exposure (PCE)/polydrug exposure.
GUItars: a GUI tool for analysis of high-throughput RNA interference screening data.	High-throughput RNA interference (RNAi) screening has become a widely used approach to elucidating gene functions. However, analysis and annotation of large data sets generated from these screens has been a challenge for researchers without a programming background. Over the years, numerous data analysis methods were produced for plate quality control and hit selection and implemented by a few open-access software packages. Recently, strictly standardized mean difference (SSMD) has become a widely used method for RNAi screening analysis mainly due to its better control of false negative and false positive rates and its ability to quantify RNAi effects with a statistical basis. We have developed GUItars to enable researchers without a programming background to use SSMD as both a plate quality and a hit selection metric to analyze large data sets.
Scattering through fruits during ripening: laser speckle technique correlated to biochemical and fluorescence measurements.	This paper reports monitoring fruits maturation using speckle technique. Performed measurements aim the assessing of biological inner fruit variation effect on the speckle image. We show that the speckle grain size is both affected by the glucose level inside the fruits and by the chlorophyll content. Moreover, the determination of circular polarization degree and circular grain size indicate that a Rayleigh diffusion regime gradually becomes predominant in fruits. Principal component analysis is used to highlight high correlation between results and strengthen the establishment of speckle as a novel non invasive method to monitor fruits ripening.
Pain, fear of falling and functional performance in nursing home residents - a cross-sectional study]	Pain and fear of falling (FOF) are modifiable factors that might play an important role in functional performance of nursing homes residents (NHR). Both factors are characterised by deficits in research and provision of long-term care services. The purpose of this study was to examine the functional performance of NHR with and without pain or FOF. Quantitative data were collected on NHR in Berlin and Brandenburg using a cross-sectional design. The cognitive status was assessed using the Minimental state test. Existing pain and FOF were assessed as a question part of interview. Functional performance was examined using the Barthel Index (BI) the Timed «up & go»-Test. Multiple linear regression analyses were performed to investigate the research question and the influence of additional explanatory variables (age, sex, relevant somatic morbidity).  217 NHR without considerable cognitive impairment (MMST >= 20) participated. 65 % of the NHR suffered from pain and 48 % had FOF. There was a statistically significant association between Pain or FOF und lower functional mobility. With respect to NHR able to walk, there was statistically significant association between Pain or FOF und lower performance in activities of daily living. Possibilities for interventions which might have positive effects on functional performance of NHR are an improved pain treatment and interventions to reduce FOF.
Understanding data; an introduction to critical appraisal.	Some basic information on how to help clinicians in understanding the results of papers are presented. Evidence based medicine is discussed and accepted concept of hierarchy of evidence presented in figure. Randomized control trial (RTC) is stressed as gold standard for evaluating the effectiveness of interventions. The examples of exercises (descriptive and inferential statistics) for understanding results are given. It is concluded that once one has a grasp of the basic steps outlined in presented text, the way to developing knowledge around evidence based practice is achieved.
Severity of peripheral arterial disease is associated with aortic pressure augmentation and subendocardial viability ratio.	Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is associated with increased cardiovascular mortality that correlates with peripheral perfusion impairment as assessed by the ankle-brachial arterial pressure index (ABI). Furthermore, PAD is associated with arterial stiffness and elevated aortic augmentation index (AIx). The purpose of this study was to investigate whether ABI impairment correlates with AIx and subendocardial viability ratio (SEVR), a measure of cardiac perfusion during diastole. AIx and SEVR were assessed by radial applanation tonometry in 65 patients with stable PAD (Rutherford stage I-III) at a tertiary referral center. AIx corrected for heart rate and SEVR were tested in a multivariate linear and logistic regression model to determine the association with ABI. Mean ABI was 0.8±0.2, AIx 31%±7%, and SEVR 141%±26%. Multiple linear regression with AIx as a dependent variable revealed that AIx was significantly negatively associated with ABI (β=-11.5; 95% confidence interval [CI], -18.6 to -4.5; P=.002). Other variables that were associated with AIx were diastolic blood pressure (β=0.2; 95% CI, 0.1-0.4; P<.001), height (β=-46.2; 95% CI, -62.9 to -29.4; P<.001), body mass index (β=-0.4; 95% CI, -0.8 to -0.1; P=.023), and smoking (β=3.6; 95% CI, 0.6-6.6; P=.019). Multiple regression with SEVR as a dependent variable showed a significant correlation with ABI (β=33.2; 95% CI, 2.3-64.1; P=.036). Severity of lower limb perfusion impairment is related to central aortic pressure augmentation and to subendocardial viability ratio. This may be a potential pathophysiologic link that impacts cardiac prognosis in patients with PAD.
Psychometrics of the chronic liver disease questionnaire for patients with posthepatitic B cirrhosis]	To report on the validity and reliability of the Chronic Liver Disease Questionnaire (CLDQ) for assessing subjects with posthepatitic B cirrhosis. The CLDQ was administered to 117 healthy volunteers and 297 patients with posthepatitic B cirrhosis. All posthepatic B cirrhosis patients were assessed for the Child-Pugh stage. The entire questionnaire and each individual item was analyzed for precision and reliability. Exploratory factor analysis, responsiveness, and discrimination validity were also assessed. No significant floor effects were detected, but a moderate ceiling effect (less than 30%) was found for the following subscales: abdominal symptoms (AS), activity (AC), and worry (WO). For most items, the ceiling effect was between 30% to 60%. The internal consistency (Cronbach's a) on total scale level was good (a = 0.905), and ranged from 0.442 to 0.848 for the different subscales. The correlation coefficients of the total scale with subscales were above 0.6  (P less than 0.01) for reliability. The CLDQ and subscale scores for healthy controls were higher than those for the patients (P less than 0.001), and were gradated from the patients with Child-Pugh A cirrhosis to those with Child-Pugh B or C cirrhosis. Increase in severity of liver disease was accompanied by lower scores by the CLDQ and 4 out 6 subscales. Exploratory factor analysis moderately reproduced the original factor structure. The CLDQ has good reliability, satisfactory content, responsiveness and discriminant validity, and moderate precision and construct validity. It is useful for effectively evaluating health-related quality of life and curative effect in patients with posthepatitic B cirrhosis.
Delta-like ligand 4 correlates with endothelial proliferation and vessel maturation in human malignant glioma.	To investigate the role of delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4) in the angiogenesis of high-grade malignant glioma.
Correlates of steady-state haematocrit and hepatosplenomegaly in children with sickle cell disease in Western Nigeria.	Sickle cell disease is a common genetic disorder in Nigeria.
Correlation between pennation angle and image quality of skeletal muscle fibre tractography using deterministic diffusion tensor imaging.	The aim of this study was to ascertain whether a correlation existed between muscle pennation angle and the ability to successfully perform tractography of the lower leg muscle fibres with deterministic diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in normal volunteers.
Radiology and pathology correlation in common infiltrative cardiomyopathies.	Infiltrative cardiomyopathies generally pose a diagnostic dilemma as current diagnostic tools are imprecise. Invasive endomyocardial biopsy is considered as the gold standard however it has some limitations. Recently cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is emerging as an excellent technique in diagnosing infiltrative cardiomyopathies and is increasingly being used. Characteristic pathologic and radiologic findings in most common infiltrative cardiomyopathies (amyloid, sarcoid and Fabry's) are discussed and correlated with relative CMR and histologic examples. There is fairly good correlation between the non-invasive radiologic and the invasive histologic findings in common infiltrative cardiomyopathies. Non-invasive CMR with its high sensitivity and specificity has an excellent role in establishing the diagnosis and improving the prognosis of common infiltrative cardiomyopathies.
Dynamics of laboratory markers of endothelial dysfunction during treatment of unstable angina]	This study was aimed to assess the diagnostic value of laboratory markers of endothelial lesions in patients with unstable angina (UA). Plasma levels of CRP, homocysteine, endothelin-1 (ET1), and pregnancy-associated plasma protein (pAPP-A) were measured by an ultrasensitive method in 51 patients. They were followed up for 4 months to evaluate the clinical picture of CHD and dynamics of laboratory parameters. The hospitalized patients with UA had elevated baseline levels of CRP (5.02+-3.35 mg/ml) during the entire study period. PAPP-A and homocysteine levels were significantly decreased (p<0.05 and p<0.0 respectively). Patients with deteriorated clinical picture of CHD had significantly elevated ET1 levels (p<0.05) both on day 1 and 4 months later It is concluded that ET1 levels increase in patients with UA and severe prognostically unfavourable CHD.
The renal artery resistive index is an integral marker of renal dysfunction in patients with chronic heart failure]	to study renal hemodynamic disorders in patients with Functional Classes (FC) II-IV chronic heart failure (CHF), by estimating the peripheral renal artery resistive index (RI), to reveal relationships to other hemodynamic parameters and markers of chronic kidney diseases and with the presence of infectious, inflammatory, and metabolic renal comorbidity in the patient.
Plasma sodium level is associated with bone loss severity in women with anorexia nervosa: a cross-sectional study.	Anorexia nervosa is a psychiatric disorder characterized by restrictive eating, low body weight, and severe bone loss. Recent data show a deleterious relationship between low circulating sodium levels and bone mass, and relative or absolute hyponatremia is a known complication of anorexia nervosa. Clinical studies of other medical conditions associated with hyponatremia suggest that detrimental effects of low sodium levels on health are seen even within the normal range. We hypothesized that women with anorexia nervosa and relatively low plasma sodium levels would have lower bone mineral density (BMD) than those with higher plasma sodium levels.
Theory and practical recommendations for autocorrelation-based image correlation spectroscopy.	Image correlation spectroscopy (ICS) is a powerful technique for detecting arrangement of fluorophores in images. This tutorial gives background into the mathematical underpinnings of ICS, specifically image autocorrelation. The effects of various artifacts and image processing steps, including background subtraction, noise, and image morphology were examined analytically and their effects on ICS analysis modeled. A series of recommendations was built based on this analysis.
Differential reward responses during competition against in- and out-of-network others.	Social interactions occur within a variety of different contexts--cooperative/competitive--and often involve members of our social network. Here, we investigated whether social network modulated the value placed on positive outcomes during a competitive context. Eighteen human participants played a simple card-guessing game with three different competitors: a close friend (in-network), a confederate (out-of-network) and a random number generator (non-social condition) while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging. Neuroimaging results at the time of outcome receipt demonstrated a significant main effect of competitor across multiple regions of medial prefrontal cortex, with Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) responses strongest when competing against one's friend compared with all other conditions. Striatal BOLD responses demonstrated a more general sensitivity to positive compared with negative monetary outcomes, which an exploratory analysis revealed to be stronger when interacting with social, compared with non-social, competitors. Interestingly, a Granger causality analysis indicated directed influences sent from an medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) region, which shows social network differentiation of outcomes, and the ventral striatum bilaterally. Our results suggest that when competing against others of varying degrees of social network, mPFC differentially values these outcomes, perhaps treating in-network outcomes as more informative, leaving the striatum to more general value computations. 
Physical exercise intervention in depressive disorders: meta-analysis and systematic review.	Previous meta-analyses investigating the effect of exercise on depression have included trials where the control condition has been categorized as placebo despite the fact that this particular placebo intervention (e.g., meditation, relaxation) has been recognized as having an antidepressant effect. Because meditation and mindfulness-based interventions are associated with depression reduction, it is impossible to separate the effect of the physical exercise from the meditation-related parts. The present study determined the efficacy of exercise in reducing symptoms of depression compared with no treatment, placebo conditions or usual care among clinically defined depressed adults. Of 89 retrieved studies, 15 passed the inclusion criteria of which 13 studies presented sufficient information for calculating effect sizes. The main result showed a significant large overall effect favoring exercise intervention. The effect size was even larger when only trials that had used no treatment or placebo conditions were analyzed. Nevertheless, effect size was reduced to a moderate level when only studies with high methodological quality were included in the analysis. Exercise may be recommended for people with mild and moderate depression who are willing, motivated, and physically healthy enough to engage in such a program. 
Late health effects of radiation exposure: new statistical, epidemiological, and biological approaches.	The 2012 Conference on Radiation and Health in Kennebunkport, Maine, USA, brought together epidemiologists, statisticians, basic scientists, and clinical scientists interested in the health effects of radiation exposure due to medical, diagnostic, occupational, and non-medical sources, to review the current status of epidemiologic and clinical research on radiation exposure in relation to risk of breast, thyroid cancer, and leukemia, cardiopulmonary events, and other late effects. Topics discussed included synergy between radiation exposure and genetic background; late effects of radiation therapy in childhood cancer survivors and several other medically exposed cohorts; leukemia risk seen in Russian and Chernobyl studies, and leukemia risk from computed tomography scans in childhood.
Relationships between hypercarbic reactivity, cerebral blood flow, and arterial circulation times in patients with moyamoya disease.	To evaluate the correlation between angiographic measures of Moyamoya disease and tissue-level impairment from measurements of tissue perfusion and cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR).
Anatomical correlates of recovery in single pellet reaching in spinal cord injured rats.	Modeling spinal cord injury (SCI) in animals is challenging because an appropriate combination of lesion location, lesion severity and behavioral testing is essential to analyze recovery of motor function. For particular tests such as single pellet reaching, the contribution of individual descending tracts to recovery has been investigated using specific tract ablation or graded lesions. However, it has not been established whether single pellet reaching is sufficiently sensitive for assessing the efficacy of treatments for cervical SCI (e.g., one of the currently most successful treatment approaches: rehabilitative training). To address this issue, we trained adult rats in single pellet reaching before and after a cervical (C4) spinal lesion. Animals with lesions of increasing severity were grouped into categories based on damage to anatomical structures such as the corticospinal tract (CST) and the rubrospinal tract (RST), two descending motor tracts that have been implicated in fine motor control of the forelimb. We related lesion extent to spontaneous recovery and plasticity-promoting post injury training and found that reaching performance was not correlated with lesion size or the extent of CST or RST injury. Interestingly, the dorsolateral quadrant (DLQ) lesion category, in which the unilateral dorsal CST and most of the unilateral RST are lesioned, was the only category that showed a clear effect of plasticity-promoting treatment (i.e., training), indicating its usefulness as a lesion model for this testing paradigm. The DLQ lesion likely strikes a balance between tissue sparing and functional impairment and is, therefore, best suited to maximize the potential to observe treatment effects of plasticity-promoting treatments using single pellet reaching. Because of the specific lesion size that is necessary to observe treatment effects, the single pellet skilled reaching task can be considered a stringent behavioral test and therefore may be useful for predicting translational success of potential treatments. However, due to the variability in the success rate, the labor-intensive nature, and the limited usefulness to test functional outcome of a wide range of lesion severities, we are hesitant to continue to use single pellet reaching to assess the effectiveness of currently available treatments for cervical SCI. 
Is there different correlation with prognostic factors between "non-mass" and "mass" type invasive ductal breast cancers?	To investigate the association between non-mass type breast cancer and common clinical-pathological prognostic factors, compared with mass type breast cancer.
Regional vulnerability of hippocampal subfields and memory deficits in Parkinson's disease.	Neuropathological studies show the hippocampus is affected in Parkinson's disease (PD), with the second subfield of the cornu armonis (CA2) being the most involved. Our aims were to assess in vivo volumes of different hippocampal subfields in patients with PD with and without visual hallucinations using MRI and test their association with verbal learning and long-term recall. A total of 18 nondemented PD patients, 18 nondemented PD patients with visual hallucinations and 18 neurologically unimpaired elderly controls matched by age and gender were enrolled in this study. We assessed the volumes of seven hippocampal subfields on MRI, including the cornu armonis (CA) sectors, subiculum, presubiculum, and the dentate gyrus (DG) using a novel technique that enables automated volumetry. The CA2-3 and CA4-DG subfields were significantly smaller in both groups of patients, while the subiculum was only reduced in PD patients with visual hallucinations, compared to controls. Significant correlations were found between learning performance and CA2-3 as well as CA4-DG volumes in the whole patient sample. These data show there is regional atrophy of specific hippocampal subfields in PD, which is more severe and further extends to the subiculum in patients with visual hallucinations. Our findings indicate that learning deficits are associated with volume loss in subfields that act as input regions in the hippocampal circuit, suggesting that degeneration in these regions could be responsible for cognitive dysfunction in PD.
Language development between the german preventive paediatric examinations at the age of 2 and 3 in children with and without language delay]	At the beginning the course of language acquisition has a high degree of variability and it is unclear so far, at what age language delay is of clinical relevance. The present study addresses the question whether language skills at the age of 2 years allow prognostic statements and whether children with language delay at this age, are to be considered as children of risk.Starting from birth announcements children of average (n=42), borderline (n=28) and below-average stage of language development (n=50) were recruited. The language skills were assessed at the age of 2 (25+0.6 months) and 3 years (37+0.6 months) using standardized language tests.The correlation between the global stage of language development at the age of 2 and 3 years was strong (rsp=0.78, p<0.001). At 3 years of age one third of the former late talkers reached language abilities within the normal range (late bloomers), one third showed language difficulties and the last third met the criteria of specific language impairment. The risk for language difficulties was increased in these children to the 13-fold. Even the late bloomers scored significantly lower in the language test compared to the control children.From the third year of live language development is relatively stable, and language skills at the age of 2 allow a prediction of the stage of language development one year later. Late talkers are at high risk for persistent language difficulties. A general language screening at the age of 2 years would enable an early identification of children at risk and an early parent-based intervention. 
Relationship between myocardial T2 values and cardiac volumetric and functional parameters in β-thalassemia patients evaluated by cardiac magnetic resonance in association with serum ferritin levels.	Myocardial T2 cardiovascular magnetic resonance provides a rapid and reproducible assessment of cardiac iron load in thalassemia patients. Although cardiac involvement is mainly characterized by left ventricular dysfunction caused by iron overload, little is known about right ventricular function. The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between T2 value in myocardium and left-right ventricular volumetric and functional parameters and to evaluate the existing associations between left-right ventricles volumetric and functional parameter, myocardial T2 values and blood ferritin levels.
Lower levels of circulating progenitor cells are associated with low physical function and performance in elderly men with impaired glucose tolerance: a pilot substudy from the VA Enhanced Fitness trial.	Aging is marked by a decline in physical function. Although the biological underpinnings for this remain unclear, loss of regenerative capacity has been proposed as one cause of the loss of physical function that occurs over time. The quantity of circulating progenitor cells (CPCs) may be one reflection of regenerative capability. We sought to determine whether certain specific CPC subpopulations were associated with physical function.
Neurobehavioral performances and brain regional metabolism in Dab1(scm) (scrambler) mutant mice.	As disabled-1 (DAB1) protein acts downstream in the reelin signaling pathway modulating neuronal migration, glutamate neurotransmission, and cytoskeletal function, the disabled-1 gene mutation (scrambler or Dab1(scm) mutation) results in ataxic mice displaying dramatic neuroanatomical defects similar to those observed in the reeler gene (Reln) mutation. By comparison to non-ataxic controls, Dab1(scm) mutants showed severe motor coordination impairments on stationary beam, coat-hanger, and rotorod tests but were more active in the open-field. Dab1(scm) mutants were also less anxious in the elevated plus-maze but with higher latencies in the emergence test. In mutants versus controls, changes in regional brain metabolism as measured by cytochrome oxidase (COX) activity occurred mainly in structures intimately connected with the cerebellum, in basal ganglia, in limbic regions, particularly hippocampus, as well as in visual and parietal sensory cortices. Although behavioral results characterized a major cerebellar disorder in the Dab1(scm) mutants, motor activity impairments in the open-field were associated with COX activity changes in efferent basal ganglia structures such as the substantia nigra, pars reticulata. Metabolic changes in this structure were also associated with the anxiety changes observed in the elevated plus-maze and emergence test. These results indicate a crucial participation of the basal ganglia in the functional phenotype of ataxic Dab1(scm) mutants. 
Computerized facial analysis for understanding constricted/blunted affect: initial feasibility, reliability, and validity data.	Diminished expression is a diagnostic feature of a range of schizophrenia-spectrum disorders/conditions and is often unresponsive to treatment, is present across premorbid, first episode and various clinical states, and is considered a poor prognostic indicator. Surprisingly, little is known about diminished expression. The present study sought to address this issue by evaluating a commercially-available computerized facial analysis software for understanding diminished expressivity. We analyzed natural facial expression from a series of laboratory interaction tasks in 28 individuals with psychometric schizotypy - defined as the personality organization reflecting a putative genetic schizophrenia liability, and 26 matched controls. We evaluated (a) feasibility - defined in terms of the number of video frames recognized by the software, (b) reliability - defined in terms of correlations between facial expression variables across the three laboratory interactions, and (c) construct validity - defined in terms of relationships to clinical variables. For most subjects (~80%), approximately three-quarters of the video frames were analyzable by the software; however, a minority of the videos were essentially unreadable. The facial expression variables showed excellent reliability across interaction conditions. In terms of construct validity, facial expression variables were significantly related to a measure of psychoticism, tapping subjective cognitive concerns and "first-rank" schizophrenia symptoms, but were generally not different between groups. Facial expression variables were generally not significantly related to measures of depression, anxiety, paranoia or, surprisingly, self-reported negative schizotypy. While computerized facial analysis appears to be a reliable and promising method of understanding diminished expressivity across the schizophrenia-spectrum, some work remains. Implications are discussed. 
Environmental enrichment effects on the neurobehavioral profile of selective outbred trait anxiety rats.	Environmental enrichment attenuates the response to psychostimulants and has been shown to reduce both anxiety and stress-related behaviors. Since stress is a major vulnerability factor for addiction, we investigated whether enrichment could reverse stress profiles in high anxious rats as well as reduce their amphetamine sensitivity. Using selectively-bred high and low anxiety males (filial 3) from enriched, social or isolated environments, we tested elevated plus maze exploration, novelty place preference and amphetamine (AMPH; 0.5mg/kg, IP)-induced hyperactivity. We measured plasma corticosterone (CORT) response after forced novel object exposure, phosphorylation of the tropomyosin-related kinase B receptor (pTrkB) in the hippocampus and striatum, and dopamine (D2) receptor mRNA levels in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. Results indicate that high anxiety animals reared in social or enriched environments spent more time on open arms of the EPM while low anxiety animals raised in enriched environments spent more time on open arms when compared to either isolated or social groups. There were no group differences or interactions found for novelty place preference. Enriched environments decreased the response to AMPH and stress-induced CORT regardless of trait but selectively decreased pTrkB and increased D2 mRNA levels in high anxiety animals. The results suggest that selectively-bred trait anxiety rats show state anxiety that is influenced by rearing environments, and D2 protein levels and BDNF/TrkB signaling may differentially contribute to integrating these effects. 
Relations among EEG-alpha asymmetry, BIS/BAS, and dispositional optimism.	Past research has been unable to address whether the activity in the frontal hemispheres is related to the direction of motivation (approach versus withdrawal) or valence of emotion (positive versus negative). The present study was an attempt to address this question by using a standardized low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) which provides EEG localization measures that are independent of the recording reference. Resting EEG, self-report measures of Behavioral Activation and Inhibition System (BAS and BIS) strength, dispositional optimism and a measure of hedonic tone, were collected from 51 unselected undergraduates. Three measures of cortical activation were obtained: (a) alpha asymmetry at conventional scalp sites, (b) anterior and posterior source alpha asymmetries (sLORETA method), (c) posterior versus frontal delta and theta activity. Both alpha asymmetry measures (conventional EEG and sLORETA) yielded significant frontal and parietal asymmetry correlation patterns. Neither measure identified significant associations between resting posterior versus frontal delta and theta activity personality traits. Higher BAS was uniquely related to greater left-sided activation in the middle frontal gyrus (BA11). Optimism was associated with higher activations in the left-superior frontal gyrus (BA10) and in the right-posterior cingulate cortex (BA31). 
Implementation and validation of an adaptive template registration method for 18F-flutemetamol imaging data.	The spatial normalization of PET amyloid imaging data is challenging because different white and gray matter patterns of negative (Aβ-) and positive (Aβ+) uptake could lead to systematic bias if a standard method is used. In this study, we propose the use of an adaptive template registration method to overcome this problem.
Utricular function. Correlation of three investigations carried out in routine practice]	For vestibular disorders competence in otorhinolaryngology (ENT) is required to diagnose disorders in the complete vestibular system. It seems difficult, however, to evaluate otolithic functions although the influence and importance regarding vestibular dysfunction could be relevant. Currently it is possible to unilaterally diagnose different functions of the saccule by recording cervically registered vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (c-VEMP). Partial functions of the utricle can be checked through the so-called turn-over manoeuvre during thermal examination, a gravitation-dependant caloric examination. Ocular recorded VEMPs and registration of the subjective visual vertical (SVV) are further tools for the discrimination of utricular function. This paper evaluates whether the results using these diagnostic tools are in agreement for distinct ENT-relevant vestibular disorders.
Demographic, socio-environmental, and substance-related predictors of duration of untreated psychosis (DUP).	Longer duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) is associated with poorer early-course and long-term outcomes, and is a target of early detection and intervention efforts. Given the paucity of research on childhood and adolescent stressors (e.g., maltreatment and neighborhood disorder) as potential predictors of DUP, limited research on premorbid substance use as a determinant of DUP, and inconclusive findings on the association between DUP and neurocognition, we conducted three sets of analyses to address these issues. Mode of onset of psychosis was also considered, given its established role as an illness-level correlate of DUP.
Adapting and evaluating a social cognitive remediation program for schizophrenia in Arabic.	Although growing evidence supports the efficacy of social cognitive training interventions for schizophrenia, nearly all studies to date have been conducted in Westernized countries. In the current study, we translated and adapted an existing social cognitive skills training (SCST) program into Arabic and conducted a preliminary efficacy evaluation in schizophrenia outpatients in Egypt. Twenty-two patients were randomized to 16 sessions of group-based SCST and 20 were randomized to a format- and time-matched illness management training control condition. Pre- and post-intervention assessments included a primary social cognition outcome measure that assessed four branches of emotional intelligence and a battery of neurocognitive tests. The SCST group demonstrated significant treatment effects on total emotional intelligence scores (F=24.31, p<.001), as well as the sub-areas of Identifying Emotions (F=11.77, p<.001) and Managing Emotions (F=23.27, p<.001), compared with those in the control condition. There were no treatment benefits for neurocognition for either condition, and both interventions were well-tolerated by patients. These initial results demonstrate the feasibility of implementing social cognitive interventions in different cultural settings with relatively minor modifications. The findings are encouraging regarding further efforts to maximize the benefits of social cognitive interventions internationally. 
Radiographic bone texture analysis is correlated with 3D microarchitecture in the femoral head, and improves the estimation of the femoral neck fracture risk when combined with bone mineral density.	Femoral neck fracture is a major public health problem in elderly persons, representing the main source of osteoporosis-related mortality and morbidity. In this study, we aimed at comparing radiographic texture analysis with three-dimensional (3D) microarchitecture in human femurs, and at evaluating whether bone texture analysis improved the assessment of the femoral neck fracture risk other than that obtainable by bone mineral density (BMD).
Which FDG/PET parameters of the primary tumors in colon or sigmoid cancer provide the best correlation with the pathological findings?	To compare (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxdeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) related parameters of primary colon or sigmoid cancer (CSC) with pathological findings.
Correlation between computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging findings of parenchymal lung diseases.	Computed tomography (CT) is considered to be the gold standard method for the assessment of morphological changes in the pulmonary parenchyma. Although its spatial resolution is lower than that of CT, MRI offers the advantage of characterizing different aspects of tissue based on the degree of contrast on T1-weighted image (WI) and T2-WI. In this article, we describe and correlate the MRI and CT features of several common patterns of parenchymal lung disease (air trapping, atelectasis, bronchiectasis, cavitation, consolidation, emphysema, ground-glass opacities, halo sign, interlobular septal thickening, masses, mycetoma, nodules, progressive massive fibrosis, reverse halo sign and tree-in-bud pattern). MRI may be an alternative modality for the collection of morphological and functional information useful for the management of parenchymal lung disease, which would help reduce the number of chest CT scans and radiation exposure required in patients with a variety of conditions. 
Altered volume and lateralization of language-related regions in first-episode schizophrenia.	Neuroanatomical abnormalities are considered to be related to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Reversal or reduction of normal structural cerebral asymmetries in schizophrenia is particularly striking. The current study investigated the alteration of gray matter volume and cerebral asymmetry in early stage of first-episode schizophrenia (FESZ), and their correlations with clinical measures. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained from a total of 89 participants. Thirty-three FESZ patients and 41 matched healthy controls were included in the analysis. Compared to healthy controls, the FESZ patients showed decreased gray matter volume (GMV) in the frontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, temporal cortex, parahippocampal, fusiform, insula, and lingual; and increased GMV in cerebellum. Both male and female patients displayed an increased rightward lateralization in frontal and temporal cortex, which was significantly correlated with the severity of symptoms and social functioning. These findings may provide the neurological substrate for the etiology and clinical manifestations of the illness. 
Diffusion tensor imaging white matter endophenotypes in patients with schizophrenia or psychotic bipolar disorder and their relatives.	OBJECTIVE Both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are hypothesized to involve disordered brain connectivity. Prior studies show low white matter integrity, measured with diffusion tensor imaging, for both disorders. The authors studied disease specificity and endophenotypic status of these abnormalities by examining patients and their unaffected relatives. METHOD The 513 participants included probands with schizophrenia, probands with psychotic bipolar disorder, their first-degree relatives, and healthy comparison subjects. Fractional anisotropy measures of white matter integrity were collected at two sites as a part of the Bipolar-Schizophrenia Network on Intermediate Phenotypes project. Relatives with cluster A or B personality characteristics were further examined. RESULTS Both the probands with schizophrenia and those with psychotic bipolar disorder showed lower fractional anisotropy than the comparison subjects in multiple white matter regions; differences were more marked in schizophrenia. No significant differences existed between proband groups, but in some brain regions scores on a measure of the dimensional continuum between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, the Schizo-Bipolar Scale, showed correlations with fractional anisotropy. Many regions affected in schizophrenia probands showed similar but smaller effects in relatives, with a continuous fractional anisotropy decrease from healthy subjects to relatives to cluster A/B relatives to probands. The pattern for psychotic bipolar disorder was similar but involved fewer brain regions. Effects in bipolar relatives were limited to younger subjects. Fractional anisotropy decreased with age in all groups; this decrease was exaggerated in schizophrenia but not psychotic bipolar disorder. CONCLUSIONS Fractional anisotropy was highly heritable, supporting its value as a potential endophenotype. 
Predictive modelling of complex agronomic and biological systems.	Biological systems are tremendously complex in their functioning and regulation. Studying the multifaceted behaviour and describing the performance of such complexity has challenged the scientific community for years. The reduction of real-world intricacy into simple descriptive models has therefore convinced many researchers of the usefulness of introducing mathematics into biological sciences. Predictive modelling takes such an approach another step further in that it takes advantage of existing knowledge to project the performance of a system in alternating scenarios. The ever growing amounts of available data generated by assessing biological systems at increasingly higher detail provide unique opportunities for future modelling and experiment design. Here we aim to provide an overview of the progress made in modelling over time and the currently prevalent approaches for iterative modelling cycles in modern biology. We will further argue for the importance of versatility in modelling approaches, including parameter estimation, model reduction and network reconstruction. Finally, we will discuss the difficulties in overcoming the mathematical interpretation of in vivo complexity and address some of the future challenges lying ahead. 
Comparison of the effectiveness of Conners' CPT and the CPT-identical pairs at distinguishing between smokers and nonsmokers with schizophrenia.	Sustained attention deficits and high rates of smoking are often observed in patients with schizophrenia. This has led to the hypothesis that patients may smoke as an attempt to ameliorate cognitive deficits related to abnormal nicotinic structure and function. Continuous performance tasks (CPT) are often used to index sustained attention deficits in patients with schizophrenia, however, there are important differences between tasks that may impact performance in smokers and nonsmokers with schizophrenia differently. The Conners' CPT (C-CPT) has a high signal-to-noise ratio and is commonly used to assess impulsivity. The CPT-Identical Pairs (CPT-IP) has a low signal-to-noise ratio and is commonly used to assess negative symptoms in patients with schizophrenia. We sought to determine whether there were differences of sustained attention between patient smokers vs. nonsmokers, and if one CPT would provide a better separation of sustained attention between groups. Results revealed that both instruments detect more impaired sustained attention deficits in patient smokers compared to nonsmokers. Patient smokers performed significantly worse on the majority of the CPT-IP composite scores compared to the C-CPT composite scores. These results do not support the self-medication theory, as patient smokers performed worse than patient nonsmokers. Researchers studying sustained attention in schizophrenia may wish to consider the CPT-IP over the C-CPT, as well as control for smoking status. 
Different adaptation of the motor activity rhythm to chronic phase shifts between adolescent and adult rats.	Chronic phase shifts is a common feature in modern societies, which may induce sleep alterations and other health problems. The effects of phase shift on the circadian rhythms have been described to be more pronounced in old than in young animals. However, few works address the effects of chronic phase shifts during adolescence. Here we tested the development of the motor activity circadian rhythm of young rats under chronic phase shifts, which consisted on 6-h advances (A), 6h delays (D) or 6h advances and delays alternated every 5 days (AD) during the first 60 days after weaning. Moreover, the rhythmic pattern was compared to that of adult rats under the same lighting conditions. Results indicate that adolescent rats, independently on the lighting environment, developed a clear circadian rhythm, whose amplitude increased the first 50 days after weaning and showed a more stable circadian rhythm than adults under the same lighting conditions. In the case of A and AD groups, circadian disruption was observed only in adult rats. In all groups, the offset of activity correlated with light pattern better than the onset, and this correlation was always higher in the case of the rhythm of the pubertal rats. When AD groups were transferred to constant darkness, the group submitted to this condition during adolescence showed shorter period than that submitted in their adulthood. In conclusion, differently from adult rats, adolescent rats submitted to chronic phase shifts did not show circadian disruption and developed a single circadian rhythm, suggesting permanent changes in the circadian system. 
Distinct functional brain regional integration of Casp3, Ascl1 and S100a6 gene expression in spatial memory.	Evaluating the brain structural expression of defined genes involved in basic biological processes of neurogenesis, apoptosis or neural plasticity may facilitate the understanding of genetic mechanisms underlying spatial memory. The aim of the present study was to compare Ascl1, Casp3 and S100a6 gene expression in the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and cerebellum of adult rats in water maze spatial memory performance. After four days training, the mean platform time (<10s) was evidence of stable long-term spatial memory formation. Real time PCR analysis revealed a positive inter-structural correlation for S100a6/Casp gene expression between the prefrontal cortex and the cerebellum but a negative correlation for S100a6/Ascl1 transcribed genes between the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus during swimming in the active controls. However, during spatial memory performance there was only one inter-structural correlation between the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum with respect to Casp3 expression, though there were intra-structural correlations between Casp3/Ascl1 transcriptions within the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus as well as between Ascl1/S100a6 in the cerebellum. In active learners versus naive controls, the transcrption of all genes was augmented in the prefrontal cortex but Casp3 and Ascl1 were also elevated in hippocampus whilst only S100a6 increased in the cerebellum. The findings endorsed the role of the hippocampus in memory acquisition in addition to an integrative relationship with the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum. This structural and molecular configuration is important for creation of novel neural circuitry for consolidation and reconsolidation of memory trace with an involvement of coupled processes of neurogenesis, apoptosis or neural plasticity. 
Atypical autonomic regulation, auditory processing, and affect recognition in women with HIV.	This study examined the effect of HIV on visceromotor (i.e., heart rate and heart rate variability) and somatomotor (i.e., auditory processing and affect recognition) components of a Social Engagement System defined by the Polyvagal Theory (Porges, 1995) that links vagal regulation of the heart with brainstem regulation of the striated muscles of the face and head. Relative to at risk HIV-seronegative women, HIV-seropositive women had less heart rate variability (i.e., respiratory sinus arrhythmia) and had poorer performance on auditory processing and affect recognition tasks. CD4 was negatively correlated with the accuracy to detect specific emotions. The observed indices of atypical autonomic and behavioral regulation may contribute to greater difficulties in social behavior and social communication between HIV-infected women and other individuals in their social network. 
Relationships between years of education and gray matter volume, metabolism and functional connectivity in healthy elders.	More educated elders are less susceptible to age-related or pathological cognitive changes. We aimed at providing a comprehensive contribution to the neural mechanism underlying this effect thanks to a multimodal approach. Thirty-six healthy elders were selected based on neuropsychological assessments and cerebral amyloid imaging, i.e. as presenting normal cognition and a negative florbetapir-PET scan. All subjects underwent structural MRI, FDG-PET and resting-state functional MRI scans. We assessed the relationships between years of education and i) gray matter volume, ii) gray matter metabolism and iii) functional connectivity in the brain areas showing associations with both volume and metabolism. Higher years of education were related to greater volume in the superior temporal gyrus, insula and anterior cingulate cortex and to greater metabolism in the anterior cingulate cortex. The latter thus showed both volume and metabolism increases with education. Seed connectivity analyses based on this region showed that education was positively related to the functional connectivity between the anterior cingulate cortex and the hippocampus as well as the inferior frontal lobe, posterior cingulate cortex and angular gyrus. Increased connectivity was in turn related with improved cognitive performances. Reinforcement of the connectivity of the anterior cingulate cortex with distant cortical areas of the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes appears as one of the mechanisms underlying education-related reserve in healthy elders. 
Age-dependent alterations in the number, volume, and localization of islands of Calleja within the olfactory tubercle.	The incidence of olfactory perceptual dysfunction increases substantially with aging. Putative mechanisms for olfactory sensory loss are surfacing, including neuroanatomical modifications within brain regions responsible for odor information processing. The islands of Calleja (IC) are dense cell clusters localized within the olfactory tubercle, a cortical structure receiving monosynaptic input from the olfactory bulb. The IC are hypothesized to be important for intra- and extra-olfactory tubercle information processing, and thus olfaction. However, whether the anatomy of the IC are affected throughout normal aging remains unclear. By examining the IC of C57bl/6 mice throughout adulthood and early aging (4-18 months of age), we found that the number of IC decreases significantly with aging. Stereological analysis revealed that the remaining IC in 18-month-old mice were significantly reduced in estimated volume compared with those in 4- month-old mice. We additionally found that whereas young adults (4 months of age) possess greater numbers of IC within the posterior parts of the olfactory tubercle, by 18 months of age, a greater percentage of IC are found within the anterior-most part of the olfactory tubercle, perhaps providing a substrate for the differential access of the IC to odor information throughout aging. These results show that the IC are highly plastic components of the olfactory cortex, changing in volume, localization, and even number throughout normal aging. We predict that modifications among the IC throughout aging and age-related neurodegenerative disorders might be a novel contributor to pathological changes in olfactory cortex function and olfactory perception. 
Amyloid beta immunization worsens iron deposits in the choroid plexus and cerebral microbleeds.	Anti-amyloid beta (Aβ) immunotherapy provides potential benefits in Alzheimer's disease patients. Nevertheless, strategies based on Aβ1-42 peptide induced encephalomyelitis and possible microhemorrhages. These outcomes were not expected from studies performed in rodents. It is critical to determine if other animal models better predict side effects of immunotherapies. Mouse lemur primates can develop amyloidosis with aging. Here we used old lemurs to study immunotherapy based on Aβ1-42 or Aβ-derivative (K6Aβ1-30). We followed anti-Aβ40 immunoglobulin G and M responses and Aβ levels in plasma. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging and histology were used to evaluate amyloidosis, neuroinflammation, vasogenic edema, microhemorrhages, and brain iron deposits. The animals responded mainly to the Aβ1-42 immunogen. This treatment induced immune response and increased Aβ levels in plasma and also microhemorrhages and iron deposits in the choroid plexus. A complementary study of untreated lemurs showed iron accumulation in the choroid plexus with normal aging. Worsening of iron accumulation is thus a potential side effect of Aβ-immunization at prodromal stages of Alzheimer's disease, and should be monitored in clinical trials. 
Tumor perfusion-related parameter of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging: correlation with histological microvessel density.	We obtained intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) parameters through biexponential analysis on diffusion-weighted MR imaging (DWI) using multiple b values. Correlation was evaluated between these parameters and histological microvessel density (MVD) for the possibility of noninvasive evaluation of MVD with DWI.
The EEG correlates of the TMS-induced EMG silent period in humans.	Application of magnetic or electrical stimulation to the motor cortex can result in a period of electromyography (EMG) silence in a tonically active peripheral muscle. This period of EMG silence is referred to as the silent period (SP). The duration of SP shows intersubject variability and reflects the integrity of cortical and corticospinal pathways. A non-invasive technique for assessing the duration of SP is the combination of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) with EMG. Utilizing TMS-EMG, several studies have reported on the shortening or lengthening of SP in neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, and stroke. However, cortical, corticospinal and peripheral components are difficult to disentangle from EMG alone. Here, we use the multimodal neuroimaging technique of TMS-EMG combined with concurrent electroencephalography (EEG) recording to further examine the cortical origin of SP and the cortical oscillatory activity that underlies SP genesis. We demonstrate that the duration of SP is related to the temporal characteristics of the cortical reactivity and the power of delta to alpha oscillations in both local and remote areas ipsilateral and contralateral to the stimulation site, and beta oscillations locally. We illustrate that, compared to EMG, the EEG indices of the SP provide additional information about the brain dynamics and propose that the EEG measures of SP may be used in future clinical and research investigations to more precisely delineate the mechanisms underlying inhibitory impairments. 
People are more likely to be insincere when they are more likely to accidentally tell the truth.	Although people lie often, and mostly for self-serving reasons, they do not lie as much as they could. The "fudge factor" hypothesis suggests that one reason for people not to lie is that they do not wish to self-identify as liars. Accordingly, self-serving lies should be more likely when they are less obvious to the liars themselves. Here we show that the likelihood of self-serving lies increases with the probability of accidentally telling the truth. Players in our game could transmit sincere or insincere recommendations to their competitors. In line with the fudge factor hypothesis, players lied when their beliefs were based on flimsy evidence and did not lie when their beliefs were based on solid evidence. This is the first demonstration of a new moral hypocrisy paradox: People are more likely to be insincere when they are more likely to accidentally tell the truth. 
Volitional control of the heart rate.	The heart rate is largely under control of the autonomic nervous system. The aim of the present study is to investigate the interactions between the brain and heart underlying volitional control of the heart and to explore the effectiveness of volition as a strategy to control the heart rate without biofeedback. Twenty seven healthy male subjects voluntarily participated in the study and were instructed to decrease and increase their heart beats according to rhythmic, computer generated sound either 10% faster or slower than the subjects' measured heart rate. Sympathetic and parasympathetic activities were estimated with the heart rate variability (HRV) obtained by power spectral analysis of RR intervals. Functional coupling patterns of cerebral cortex with the heart were determined by Partial directed coherence (PDC). In HR(slow) task; HR and sympathetic activity significantly decreased. However parasympathetic activity and power spectral density of EEG in low Alpha (8-10.5 Hz) band significantly increased. Moreover information flow from parietal area (P3 and P4) to RR interval significantly increased. During HR(quick) task; HR, sympathetic activity and power spectral density of EEG in low Beta (14-24 Hz) band significantly increased. Parasympathetic activity significantly decreased. Information flow from FT8, CZ and T8 electrodes to RR interval significantly increased. Our findings suggested that the heart beat can be controlled by volition and is related to some special areas in the cortex.
Correlations of noninvasive BOLD and TOLD MRI with pO2 and relevance to tumor radiation response.	To examine the potential use of blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) and tissue oxygenation level dependent (TOLD) contrast MRI to assess tumor oxygenation and predict radiation response.
Striatal shape in Parkinson's disease.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is marked pathologically by nigrostriatal dopaminergic terminal loss. Histopathological and in vivo labeling studies demonstrate that this loss occurs most extensively in the caudal putamen and caudate head. Previous structural studies have suggested reduced striatal volume and atrophy of the caudate head in PD subjects. The spatial distribution of atrophy in the putamen, however, has not been characterized. We aimed to delineate the specific locations of atrophy in both of these striatal structures. T1- and T2-weighted brain MR (3T) images were obtained from 40 PD and 40 control subjects having no dementia and similar age and gender distributions. Shape analysis was performed using doubly segmented regions of interest. Compared to controls, PD subjects had lower putamen (p = 0.0003) and caudate (p = 0.0003) volumes. Surface contraction magnitudes were greatest on the caudal putamen (p ≤ 0.005) and head and dorsal body of the caudate (p ≤ 0.005). This spatial distribution of striatal atrophy is consistent with the known pattern of dopamine depletion in PD and may reflect global consequences of known cellular remodeling phenomena.
Application of statistical techniques for elucidating flow cytometric data of batch and fed-batch cultures.	The objective of this work is to develop structured, segregated stochastic models for bioprocesses using time-series flow cytometric (FC) data. To this end, mammalian CHO cells were grown in both batch and fed-batch cultures, and their viable cell numbers (VCDs), monoclonal antibody (MAb), cell cycle phases, mitochondria membrane potential/mitochondria mass, Golgi apparatus, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) were analyzed. For the fed-batch mode, soy hydrolysate was introduced at 24-H intervals. The cytometric data were analyzed for early indicators of growth and productivity by multiple linear regression analysis, which involved taking into account multicollinearity diagnostics, Durbin-Watson statistics, and Houston tests to determine and refine statistically significant correlations between categorical variables (FC parameters) and response variables (yield parameters). The results indicate that the percentage of G1 cells and ER was significantly correlated with VCD and MAb in the case of batch culture, whereas for fed-batch culture, the percentage of G2 cells and ER was correlated significantly. There was a significant difference between cells in the batch and fed-batch cultures in their ER content, suggesting that the increase in protein synthesis as reflected by the ER content and consequent increase in growth rate and MAb productivity both can be monitored at the cellular level by FC analysis of ER content.
Functional hemispheric lateralization for language in patients with schizophrenia.	It is widely reported that patients with schizophrenia exhibit decreased hemispheric lateralization. However, no study has evaluated relationships between the hemispheric anatomical and functional asymmetry in language areas. The present study aimed to determine whether decreased leftward hemispheric lateralization could be related to asymmetry of the grey matter volume in patients with schizophrenia. This investigation was the first to use a functional index of laterality to analyze the global functional network specifically involved in the language task.
Firearm possession among adolescents presenting to an urban emergency department for assault.	Firearm violence is a leading cause of death among youth. The objectives of this study were (1) determine firearm possession rates and associated correlates among youth seeking care for assault in an emergency department (ED); (2) understand differences in risk factors for youth with firearm possession; and (3) identify firearm possession characteristics in this population: type, reason for possession, and source of firearms.
Association between subjective well-being and prefrontal function during a cognitive task in schizophrenia: a multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy study.	The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between subjective well-being and prefrontal function during a cognitive task in schizophrenia. Twenty-four patients with clinically stable schizophrenia participated in the study. We measured the change in hemoglobin concentration in the prefrontal region during a verbal fluency task (VFT) by using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). The subjective well-being of participants was assessed using the Subjective Well-being under Neuroleptic drug treatment Short form (SWNS). A significant positive relationship was observed between the SWNS score and frontopolar, left ventrolateral, and bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal function during the VFT. These results suggest that the frontopolar and left ventrolateral and bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortical regions are associated with the subjective well-being of clinically stable patients with schizophrenia and that NIRS may be an efficient medical tool for monitoring these characteristics. 
Determination of thiocyanate (biomarkers of ETS) and other inorganic ions in human nasal discharge samples using ion chromatography.	Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is a mixture of air and tobacco smoke containing more than 4000 chemical substances. In view of the health risks of many of these substances, studies are needed to determine biomarkers of exposure to ETS constituents in people who actively or passively are exposed to the toxic compounds. The methodologies for determining most biomarkers from saliva, urine and blood samples are known, but methods for analyzing these compounds in nasal discharges are not available. The objective of this work was to develop an analytical procedure for the determination of thiocyanate and other biomarker compounds in samples of nasal discharge using ion chromatography. 
Harsh physical punishment in childhood and adult physical health.	The use of physical punishment is controversial. No studies have comprehensively examined the relationship between physical punishment and several physical health conditions in a nationally representative sample. The current study investigated possible associations between harsh physical punishment (ie, pushing, grabbing, shoving, slapping, and hitting) in the absence of more severe child maltreatment (ie, physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse, physical neglect, emotional neglect, and exposure to intimate partner violence) and several physical health conditions.
Assessment of psoriatic plaque in vivo with correlation mapping optical coherence tomography.	Vascular abnormalities play an acute role in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. In order to characterize vascular involvement in psoriasis and its regular clinical assessment in vivo, non-invasive high speed imaging with high resolution and high sensitivity is needed.
Pattern electroretinogram in neuromyelitis optica and multiple sclerosis with or without optic neuritis and its correlation with FD-OCT and perimetry.	To evaluate the ability of transient pattern electroretinogram (PERG) parameters to differentiate between eyes of patients with neuromyelitis optica (NMO), longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis (LETM), multiple sclerosis with optic neuritis (MS + ON), multiple sclerosis without optic neuritis (MS - ON), and controls, to compare PERG and OCT with regard to discrimination ability, and to assess the correlation between PERG, FD-OCT, and visual field measurements (VFs).
Adjusting for multiple prognostic factors in the analysis of randomised trials.	When multiple prognostic factors are adjusted for in the analysis of a randomised trial, it is unclear (1) whether it is necessary to account for each of the strata, formed by all combinations of the prognostic factors (stratified analysis), when randomisation has been balanced within each stratum (stratified randomisation), or whether adjusting for the main effects alone will suffice, and (2) the best method of adjustment in terms of type I error rate and power, irrespective of the randomisation method.
A statistical analysis of the Bloch-Siegert B1 mapping technique.	A number of B1 mapping methods have been introduced. A model to facilitate choice among these methods is valuable, as the performance of each technique is affected by a variety of factors, including acquisition signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The Bloch-Siegert shift B1 mapping method has recently garnered significant interest. In this paper, we present a statistical model suitable for analysis of the Bloch-Siegert shift method. Unlike previously presented models, the analysis is valid in both low SNR and high SNR regimes. We present a detailed analysis of the performance of the Bloch-Siegert shift B1 mapping method across a broad range of acquisition scenarios, and compare it to two other B1 mapping techniques (the dual angle method and the phase sensitive method). Further validation of the model is presented through both Monte Carlo simulations and experimental results. The simulations and experimental results match the model well, lending confidence to its accuracy. Each technique is found to perform well with high acquisition SNR. However, our results suggest that the dual angle method is not reliable in low SNR environments. Furthermore, the phase sensitive method appears to outperform the Bloch-Siegert shift method in these low-SNR cases, although variations of the Bloch-Siegert method may be possible that improve its performance at low SNR. 
Noise reduction in functional near-infrared spectroscopy signals by independent component analysis.	Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is used to detect concentration changes of oxy-hemoglobin and deoxy-hemoglobin in the human brain. The main difficulty entailed in the analysis of fNIRS signals is the fact that the hemodynamic response to a specific neuronal activation is contaminated by physiological and instrument noises, motion artifacts, and other interferences. This paper proposes independent component analysis (ICA) as a means of identifying the original hemodynamic response in the presence of noises. The original hemodynamic response was reconstructed using the primary independent component (IC) and other, less-weighting-coefficient ICs. In order to generate experimental brain stimuli, arithmetic tasks were administered to eight volunteer subjects. The t-value of the reconstructed hemodynamic response was improved by using the ICs found in the measured data. The best t-value out of 16 low-pass-filtered signals was 37, and that of the reconstructed one was 51. Also, the average t-value of the eight subjects' reconstructed signals was 40, whereas that of all of their low-pass-filtered signals was only 20. Overall, the results showed the applicability of the ICA-based method to noise-contamination reduction in brain mapping. 
Decoding the neuroanatomical basis of reading ability: a multivoxel morphometric study.	As a relatively recent cultural invention in human evolution, reading is an important gateway to personal development and socioeconomic success. Despite the well documented individual differences in reading ability, its neuroanatomical correlates have not been well understood, largely due to the fact that reading is a complex skill that consists of multiple components. Using a large sample of 416 college students and 7 reading tasks, the present study successfully identified three uncorrelated components of reading ability: phonological decoding, form-sound association, and naming speed. We then tried to predict individuals' scores in these components from their gray matter volume (GMV) on a subset of participants (N = 253) with high-quality structural images, adopting a multivariate support vector regression analysis with tenfold cross-validation. Our results revealed distinct neural regions that supported different aspects of reading ability: whereas phonological decoding was associated with the GMV in the left superior parietal lobe extending to the supramarginal gyrus, form-sound association was predicted by the GMV in the hippocampus and cerebellum. Naming speed was associated with GMV in distributed brain regions in the occipital, temporal, parietal, and frontal cortices. Phonological decoding and form-sound association were uncorrelated with general cognitive abilities. However, naming speed was correlated with intelligence and processing speed, and some of the regions that were predictive of naming speed also predicted these general cognitive abilities. These results provide further insights on the cognitive and neural architecture of reading and the structural basis of individual differences in reading abilities. 
Short-term learning induces white matter plasticity in the fornix.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has greatly extended the exploration of neuroplasticity in behaving animals and humans. Imaging studies recently uncovered structural changes that occur in gray and white matter, mainly after long-term training. A recent diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) study showed that training in a car racing game for 2 h induces changes in the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyri. However, the effect of short-term training on the white matter microstructure is unknown. Here we investigated the influence of short learning tasks on structural plasticity in the white matter, and specifically in the fornix, in humans and rats. Human subjects performed a 2 h spatial learning task, and rats underwent training for 1 d in a Morris water maze. Between tasks, subjects were scanned with DTI, a diffusion MRI framework sensitive to tissue microstructure. Using tract-based spatial statistics, we found changes in diffusivity indices in both humans and rats. In both species, changes in diffusion in the fornix were correlated with diffusion changes in the hippocampus, as well as with behavioral measures of improvement in the learning tasks. These results, which provide the first indication of short-term white matter plasticity in the human brain, suggest that the adult brain white matter preserves dynamic characteristics and can be modified by short-term learning experiences. The extent of change in white matter was correlated with their extent in gray matter, suggesting that all components of the neural network are capable of rapid remodeling in response to cognitive experiences. 
Elevated correlations in neuronal ensembles of mouse auditory cortex following parturition.	The auditory cortex is malleable by experience. Previous studies of auditory plasticity have described experience-dependent changes in response profiles of single neurons or changes in global tonotopic organization. However, experience-dependent changes in the dynamics of local neural populations have remained unexplored. In this study, we examined the influence of a dramatic yet natural experience in the life of female mice, giving birth and becoming a mother on single neurons and neuronal ensembles in the primary auditory cortex (A1). Using in vivo two-photon calcium imaging and electrophysiological recordings from layer 2/3 in A1 of mothers and age-matched virgin mice, we monitored changes in the responses to a set of artificial and natural sounds. Population dynamics underwent large changes as measured by pairwise and higher-order correlations, with noise correlations increasing as much as twofold in lactating mothers. Concomitantly, changes in response properties of single neurons were modest and selective. Remarkably, despite the large changes in correlations, information about stimulus identity remained essentially the same in the two groups. Our results demonstrate changes in the correlation structure of neuronal activity as a result of a natural life event. 
A biologist's guide to statistical thinking and analysis.	The proper understanding and use of statistical tools are essential to the scientific enterprise. This is true both at the level of designing one's own experiments as well as for critically evaluating studies carried out by others. Unfortunately, many researchers who are otherwise rigorous and thoughtful in their scientific approach lack sufficient knowledge of this field. This methods chapter is written with such individuals in mind. Although the majority of examples are drawn from the field of Caenorhabditis elegans biology, the concepts and practical applications are also relevant to those who work in the disciplines of molecular genetics and cell and developmental biology. Our intent has been to limit theoretical considerations to a necessary minimum and to use common examples as illustrations for statistical analysis. Our chapter includes a description of basic terms and central concepts and also contains in-depth discussions on the analysis of means, proportions, ratios, probabilities, and correlations. We also address issues related to sample size, normality, outliers, and non-parametric approaches. 
Family caregiving for adults with schizophrenia and diabetes mellitus.	Diabetes mellitus (DM) is common among those with schizophrenia, but little is known about family members' roles in the care of relatives who have both schizophrenia and DM. The purpose of this descriptive correlational study was to examine DM knowledge and caregiver burden among 27 family caregivers of people with schizophrenia and DM. Findings indicate that DM knowledge was low. Objective caregiver burden was highest for providing assistance with daily living activities. Subjective burden was highest for preventing the care recipient from keeping people awake at night and dealing with the care recipient's non-adherence to DM care. Family caregivers are in need of education and support in the caregiving role.
Consistency errors in p-values reported in Spanish psychology journals.	Recent reviews have drawn attention to frequent consistency errors when reporting statistical results.
Statistical mechanics of pluripotency.	Recent reports using single-cell profiling have indicated a remarkably dynamic view of pluripotent stem cell identity. Here, we argue that the pluripotent state is not well defined at the single-cell level but rather is a statistical property of stem cell populations, amenable to analysis using the tools of statistical mechanics and information theory. 
Statistical evaluation of the use of concurrent controls in treatment screening studies.	A well-designed pilot study can advance science by providing essential preliminary data to support or motivate further research, refine study logistics, and demonstrate proof of concept. Often, the outcomes of such studies can be quantified by a success/failure dichotomy. For example, a novel compound may show activation of a neural pathway, or it may not. When an intervention's efficacy is quantified using a dichotomous outcome, probability mass functions can be enumerated to determine the probability that the observed result from a pilot study supports further evaluation of the intervention since there is only a finite, and often small, number of sample configurations possible. The purpose of this research was to determine the probability of an "efficacy signal" for pilot studies using one- and two-sample pilot study designs. Efficacy signal was defined as the probability of observing a more favorable response proportion relative to a historical control (one-sample setting) or to a concurrent control (two-sample setting). An enumeration study (exact simulation) was conducted to calculate the efficacy signal probability. One-sample study designs yielded higher probability of determining an efficacy signal than the two-sample setting; however, sampling variation must be accounted for. A 68% score confidence interval is recommended for this purpose. 
Composite quality of care scores, electronic health record maturity models, and their associations; preliminary literature review results.	To accurately assess the association between the use of EHR systems and the quality of healthcare we need (composite) measures for quality of healthcare, and a model to measure the maturity of the EHR. This Medline-based literature study therefore focussed on three topics; (1) methods to compose a measure for quality of care based on individual quality indicators (QI), (2) models to measure EHR maturity, and (3) the association between the former two. Composite quality is most often measured using opportunity-based scores, maturity is measured in functionalities or levels. EHR maturity measures are not used extensively in biomedical literature. Most studies found a positive association between EHR use and the quality of care but almost none of them differentiate in maturity of EHR which hampers firm conclusions about this relation. 
Development of electronic progress tables for multidisciplinary medical education in a university.	In the education of medical professionals, imitation medical records and associated documents were developed as electronic teaching materials for students in order to teach collaboration among medical professionals such as nurses, therapists and medical social workers. The roles of each medical professional and the flow of clinical practice were taught using progress tables, including medical treatment, clinical examination, and the contents of care, so that the contents of medical examination were understood based on a time series. Students' understanding of the flow of medical practice was evaluated based on the amount of description in the table before and after explanation of the important points of the clinical process concerning each medical professional. The comments of students who received the lessons suggested that this approach was useful for understanding actual clinical practice and how to utilize a progress table and to prepare information. 
Bioenergetics of the calf muscle in Friedreich ataxia patients measured by 31P-MRS before and after treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin.	Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is caused by a GAA repeat expansion in the FXN gene leading to reduced expression of the mitochondrial protein frataxin. Recombinant human erythropoietin (rhuEPO) is suggested to increase frataxin levels, alter mitochondrial function and improve clinical scores in FRDA patients. Aim of the present pilot study was to investigate mitochondrial metabolism of skeletal muscle tissue in FRDA patients and examine effects of rhuEPO administration by phosphorus 31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P MRS). Seven genetically confirmed FRDA patients underwent 31P MRS of the calf muscles using a rest-exercise-recovery protocol before and after receiving 3000 IU of rhuEPO for eight weeks. FRDA patients showed more rapid phosphocreatine (PCr) depletion and increased accumulation of inorganic phosphate (Pi) during incremental exercise as compared to controls. After maximal exhaustive exercise prolonged regeneration of PCR and slowed decline in Pi can be seen in FRDA. PCr regeneration as hallmark of mitochondrial ATP production revealed correlation to activity of complex II/III of the respiratory chain and to demographic values. PCr and Pi kinetics were not influenced by rhuEPO administration. Our results confirm mitochondrial dysfunction and exercise intolerance due to impaired oxidative phosphorylation in skeletal muscle tissue of FRDA patients. MRS did not show improved mitochondrial bioenergetics after eight weeks of rhuEPO exposition in skeletal muscle tissue of FRDA patients.
Correlation between OFF and ON channels underlies dark target selectivity in an insect visual system.	In both vertebrates and invertebrates, evidence supports separation of luminance increments and decrements (ON and OFF channels) in early stages of visual processing (Hartline, 1938; Joesch et al., 2010); however, less is known about how these parallel pathways are recombined to encode form and motion. In Drosophila, genetic knockdown of inputs to putative ON and OFF pathways and direct recording from downstream neurons in the wide-field motion pathway reveal that local elementary motion detectors exist in pairs that separately correlate contrast polarity channels, ON with ON and OFF with OFF (Joesch et al., 2013). However, behavioral responses to reverse-phi motion of discrete features reveal additional correlations of the opposite signs (Clark et al., 2011). We here present intracellular recordings from feature detecting neurons in the dragonfly that provide direct physiological evidence for the correlation of OFF and ON pathways. These neurons show clear polarity selectivity for feature contrast, responding strongly to targets that are darker than the background and only weakly to dark contrasting edges. These dark target responses are much stronger than the linear combination of responses to ON and OFF edges. We compare these data with output from elementary motion detector-based models (Eichner et al., 2011; Clark et al., 2011), with and without stages of strong center-surround antagonism. Our data support an alternative elementary small target motion detector model, which derives dark target selectivity from the correlation of a delayed OFF with an un-delayed ON signal at each individual visual processing unit (Wiederman et al., 2008, 2009). 
Radiologic-pathologic correlation at breast MR imaging: what is the appropriate management for high-risk lesions?	Breast magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is increasingly performed for a variety of indications, most commonly with the goal of detecting breast cancer. Percutaneous biopsy (usually under MR guidance or ultrasound if there is a correlating finding) is commonly used to evaluate suspicious imaging findings detected on MR imaging with the goal of identifying malignancy. It is important to be familiar with the characteristics and management of high-risk lesions detected or biopsied under MR guidance. This review focuses on the appearance of a variety of breast lesions detected on MR imaging that require excision with focus on pathologic correlation. 
Correlating the amount of urea, creatinine, and glucose in urine from patients with diabetes mellitus and hypertension with the risk of developing renal lesions by means of Raman spectroscopy and principal component analysis.	Patients with diabetes mellitus and hypertension (HT) diseases are predisposed to kidney diseases. The objective of this study was to identify potential biomarkers in the urine of diabetic and hypertensive patients through Raman spectroscopy in order to predict the evolution to complications and kidney failure. Urine samples were collected from control subjects (CTR) and patients with diabetes and HT with no complications (lower risk, LR), high degree of complications (higher risk, HR), and doing blood dialysis (DI). Urine samples were stored frozen (-20°C) before spectral analysis. Raman spectra were obtained using a dispersive spectrometer (830-nm, 300-mW power, and 20-s accumulation). Spectra were then submitted to principal component analysis (PCA) followed by discriminant analysis. The first PCA loading vectors revealed spectral features of urea, creatinine, and glucose. It has been found that the amounts of urea and creatinine decreased as disease evoluted from CTR to LR/HR and DI (PC1, p<0.05), and the amount of glucose increased in the urine of LR/HR compared to CTR (PC3, p<0.05). The discriminating model showed better overall classification rate of 70%. These results could lead to diagnostic information of possible complications and a better disease prognosis.
Brachial arterial temperature as an indicator of core temperature: proof of concept and potential applications.	There is potential for heat loss and hypothermia during anesthesia and also for hyperthermia if heat conservation and active warming measures are not accurately titrated. Accurate temperature monitoring is particularly important in procedures in which the patient is actively cooled and then rewarmed such as during cardiopulmonary bypass surgery (CPB). We simultaneously measured core, nasopharyngeal, and brachial artery temperatures to investigate the last named as a potential peripheral temperature monitoring site. Ten patients undergoing hypothermic CPB were instrumented for simultaneous monitoring of temperatures in the pulmonary artery (PA), aortic arterial inflow (AI), nasopharynx (NP), and brachial artery (BA). Core temperature was defined as PA temperature before and after CPB and the AI temperature during CPB. Mean deviations of BA and NP temperatures from core temperature were calculated for three steady-state periods (before, during, and after CPB). Mean deviation of BA and NP temperatures from AI temperature was also calculated during active rewarming. A total of 1862 measurements were obtained and logged from eight patients. Mean BA and NP deviations from core temperature across the steady-state periods (before, during, and after CBP) were, respectively: .23 +/- .25, -.26 +/- .3, and -.09 +/- .05 degrees C (BA), and .11 +/- .19, -.1 +/- .47, and -.04 +/- .3 degrees C (NP). During steady-state periods, there was no evidence of a difference between the mean BA and NP deviation. During active rewarming, the mean difference between the BA and AI temperatures was .14 +/- .36 degrees C. During this period, NP temperature lagged behind AI and BA temperatures by up to 41 minutes and was up to 5.3 degres C lower than BA (mean difference between BA and NP temperatures was 1.22 +/- .58 degrees C). The BA temperature is an adequate surrogate for core temperature. It also accurately tracks the changing AI temperature during rewarming and is therefore potentially useful in detecting a hyperthermic perfusate, which might cause cerebral hyperthermia.
Correlation between spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and autofluorescence findings in sclerochoroidal calcification.	The purpose of this article is to report the correlation between spectral domain-optical coherence tomography and autofluorescence findings in 3 consecutive cases with sclerochoroidal calcification.
Assessing the risk of alternative management strategies in a Mediterranean fishery: protecting the younger vs reducing fishing effort.	A stochastic age-structured population model was developed to explore biologically favourable levels of effort and closing periods within the sardine pelagic fishery in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Results suggested that the developed age-structured model captured the observed biomass fluctuations and catches reasonably well and represents the first comprehensive investigation of alternative management strategies for eastern Mediterranean sardine fishery that include stochasticity. The present study provided direct evidence for the importance of the correct timing of the temporal fishing ban. Significant benefits were found both in terms of biomass and catch from a corrective shift in the fishing closed period. The current findings suggested that protecting the younger age groups from fishing in the period October-December, by shifting the ban period earlier than December may profit, biologically, the stock and economically the fishing sector. Progressive reductions in fishing mortality/effort also yield significant positive biological and fishery benefits in the short term. 
Formation and reverberation of sequential neural activity patterns evoked by sensory stimulation are enhanced during cortical desynchronization.	Memory formation is hypothesized to involve the generation of event-specific neural activity patterns during learning and the subsequent spontaneous reactivation of these patterns. Here, we present evidence that these processes can also be observed in urethane-anesthetized rats and are enhanced by desynchronized brain state evoked by tail pinch, subcortical carbachol infusion, or systemic amphetamine administration. During desynchronization, we found that repeated tactile or auditory stimulation evoked unique sequential patterns of neural firing in somatosensory and auditory cortex and that these patterns then reoccurred during subsequent spontaneous activity, similar to what we have observed in awake animals. Furthermore, the formation of these patterns was blocked by an NMDA receptor antagonist, suggesting that the phenomenon depends on synaptic plasticity. These results suggest that anesthetized animals with a desynchronized brain state could serve as a convenient model for studying stimulus-induced plasticity to improve our understanding of memory formation and replay in the brain. 
Potential reporting bias in fMRI studies of the brain.	Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have reported multiple activation foci associated with a variety of conditions, stimuli or tasks. However, most of these studies used fewer than 40 participants.
Closing the East-West life expectancy gap in the European union: a new strategy.	According to recent studies, the difference in life expectancy -the gap-between eastern and western countries of the European Union (EU) grows continuously. We have analyzed data on life expectancy and household expenditure, corrected by price level indices, in the countries of the EU. We have found that eastern European countries have less total health expenditure, but expenditures on tobacco and alcohol dominate. We propose a new strategy for closing the gap, by promoting health care spending, public and private investments in life extension, and radical life extension research in the eastern countries of the EU.
Cue reactivity in smokers: an event-related potential study.	Drugs-of-abuse may increase the salience of drug cues by sensitizing the dopaminergic (DA) system (Robinson and Berridge, 1993), leading to differential attention to smoking stimuli. Event-related potentials (ERPs) have been used to assess attention to smoking cues but not using an ERP component associated with DA-mediated salience evaluation. In this study the DA-related P2a and the P3, were compared in smokers (N = 21) and non-smokers (N = 21) during an attention selection cue exposure task including both cigarette and neutral images. We predicted that both the P2a and P3 would be larger to targets than non-targets, but larger to non-target cigarette images than non-target neutral images only in the smokers, reflecting smokers' evaluation of smoking stimuli as relevant even when they were not targets. Results indicated that smokers showed behavioral cue reactivity, with more false alarms to cigarette images (responding to cigarette images when they were not targets) than non-smokers; however, both smokers and non-smokers had a larger P2a and P3 to cigarette images. Thus, while smokers showed behavioral evidence of differential salience evaluation of the cigarette images, this group difference was not reflected in differential brain activity. These findings may reflect characteristics of the ERPs (both ERP components were smaller in the smokers), the smoking sample (they were not more impulsive, i.e. reward sensitive, than the non-smokers, in contrast to prior studies) and the design (all participants were aware that the aim of the study was related to smoking).
Diffusion tensor imaging and correlations to Parkinson rating scales.	The contribution of various brain areas to the overall progression of Parkinson's disease remains to be determined. In this study, we apply MRI diffusion tensor imaging to investigate how alterations in diffusion relate to phenotype and symptoms measured by clinical rating scales. Sixty-four patients were investigated at baseline and three follow-ups (1, 3 and 5 years). Thirty-six patients remained in the last follow-up. Regions of interests included frontal white matter, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum. Scoring on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) I, II, III, Hoehn and Yahr (HY) scale and the Schwab and England scale (SE) was determined. Mean, radial, and axial diffusion and fractional anisotropy were modeled with phenotype and clinical scales in a multivariate/univariate analysis correcting for other covariates. Significance was set at 0.05 Bonferroni corrected. All rating scales except UPDRS III significantly correlated to the diffusion measures, as did clinical phenotype. Specifically, putamen, globus pallidus, and thalamus demonstrated higher diffusion with worsening scores. Diffusion in thalamus was higher in the tremor dominant phenotype than in postural imbalance and gait disturbance. Decline in overall functionality (UPDRS II and SE scale), including mental status (UPDRS I) and stage of the disease (HY scale), in Parkinson's disease is related to altered diffusion in the lentiform nucleus and thalamus. Motor function is not mirrored in diffusion changes, possibly due to medication. Tremor dominant PD patients show diffusion alterations in the thalamus, but the significance of this for tremor generation remains to be determined. 
Associations between socioeconomic status and self-rated health in northeast German rural communities in 1973, 1994, and 2004/2008]	This paper reports on selected results from the study "Health and Lifestyle in Rural Northeast Germany". A special characteristic of this study is the regional focus on peripheral rural communities and the trend study design. It was analyzed whether, and to what extent, associations exist between socioeconomic status and self-rated health in this regional context and over time. Thus, regression analyses were conducted using equivalent income, level of school education, and age as independent variables and self-rated health as the dependent variable. Analyses are based on paper-pencil surveys of the adult residents of 14 rural communities chosen at random in northeast Germany, performed in 1973, 1994, and 2004-2008. In all survey waves, a lower level of school education was associated with poor self-rated health. By contrast, associations between income and health were less consistent and constant over time. The associations between income and health are discussed as being specific to East Germany and as a consequence of social transformation in the context of reunification. 
Novel facial cosmetic area 'O zone' shows unique characteristics in sebum excretion and acne lesion distribution.	We usually divided cosmetic facial zone into the T zone and U zone by the level of sebum secretion. Our recent studies suggested that the perioral area showed different characteristics in the aspect of acne development.
Coexistence of internal carotid artery stenosis with intracranial aneurysm.	Studies have hypothesized that alterations in haemodynamics and rheological properties in the main vessels like the main stem of the carotid artery or the internal carotid arteries are responsible for the formation of cerebral aneurysms.
Brain structural imaging correlates of olfactory dysfunction in obsessive-compulsive disorder.	Olfactory dysfunction has been described in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Brain regions involved in smell processing partially overlap with structures included in the neurobiological models of OCD, although no previous studies have analyzed the neuroanatomical correlates of olfactory dysfunction in this disorder. The aim of our study was to examine the association between regional gray matter volume, as assessed by a voxel-based morphometry analysis of magnetic resonance images (MRI), and olfactory function, as assessed by the Sniffin' Sticks test (SST). Olfactory function was assessed in 19 OCD patients and 19 healthy volunteers. All participants were also scanned in a 1.5-T magnet to obtain T1-weighted anatomical MRIs, which were pre-processed and analyzed with SPM8. Three different correlation models were used to study the association between regional gray matter volumes and olfactory function in the domains assessed by the SST: detection threshold, discrimination, and identification. OCD patients showed a significant impairment in all the domains assessed by the SST. Voxel-based mapping revealed a positive association in healthy controls between detection threshold and the gray matter content of a left anterior cingulate cortex cluster. In OCD patients, a positive correlation was observed between identification errors and the gray matter volume of the left medial orbital gyrus. In a post hoc analysis, these two gray matter regions were shown to be enlarged in OCD patients. Our findings support the idea that olfactory dysfunction in OCD is associated with volumetric changes in brain areas typically implicated in the neurobiology of the disorder. 
Energy drink consumption is associated with anxiety in Australian young adult males.	Energy drinks are predominantly targeted to young adult consumers; however, there has been limited research into their effects on psychological functioning in this demographic group. This study examined cross-sectional associations between energy drink consumption and mental health in a population-based sample of young adults participating in the Western Australian Pregnancy Cohort (Raine) Study.
Computation of linear acceleration through an internal model in the macaque cerebellum.	A combination of theory and behavioral findings support a role for internal models in the resolution of sensory ambiguities and sensorimotor processing. Although the cerebellum has been proposed as a candidate for implementation of internal models, concrete evidence from neural responses is lacking. Using unnatural motion stimuli, which induce incorrect self-motion perception and eye movements, we explored the neural correlates of an internal model that has been proposed to compensate for Einstein's equivalence principle and generate neural estimates of linear acceleration and gravity. We found that caudal cerebellar vermis Purkinje cells and cerebellar nuclei neurons selective for actual linear acceleration also encoded erroneous linear acceleration, as would be expected from the internal model hypothesis, even when no actual linear acceleration occurred. These findings provide strong evidence that the cerebellum might be involved in the implementation of internal models that mimic physical principles to interpret sensory signals, as previously hypothesized. 
α-Synuclein in cutaneous autonomic nerves.	To develop a cutaneous biomarker for Parkinson disease (PD).
Dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI of nasopharyngeal carcinoma: a preliminary study of the correlations between quantitative parameters and clinical stage.	To evaluate the relationship between quantitative parameters of dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and clinical stage of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
Entropy correlates with Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale in  mechanically ventilated critically ill patients.	Sedation is routinely used in intensive care units. However due to absence of objective scoring systems like Bispectral Index and entropy our ability to regulate the degree of sedation is limited. This deficiency is further highlighted by the fact that agitation scores used in intensive care units (ICU) have no role in paralyzed patients. The present study compares entropy as a sedation scoring modality with Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) in mechanically ventilated, critically ill patients in an ICU. Twenty-seven, mechanically ventilated, critically ill patients of either sex, 16-65 years of age, were studied over a period of 24 h. They received a standard sedation regimen consisting of a bolus dose of propofol 0.5 mg/kg and fentanyl 1 lg/kg followed by infusions of propofol and fentanyl ranging from 1.5 to 5 mg/kg/h and 0.5 to 2.0 lg/kg/h, respectively. Clinically relevant values of RASS for optimal ICU sedation (between 0 and -3) in non-paralyzed patients were compared to corresponding entropy values, to find if any significant correlation exists between the two. These entropy measurements were obtained using the Datex-Ohmeda-M-EntropyTM module. This module is presently not approved by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for monitoring sedation in ICU. A total of 527 readings were obtained. There was a statistically significant correlation between the state entropy (SE) and RASS [Spearman's rho/rs = 0.334, p\0.0001]; response entropy (RE) and RASS [Spearman's rho/rs = 0.341, p\0.0001]). For adequate sedation as judged by a RASS value of 0 to -3, the mean SE was 57.86 ± 16.50 and RE was 67.75 ± 15.65. The present study illustrates that entropy correlates with RASS (between scores 0 and -3) when assessing the level of sedation in mechanically ventilated critically ill patients.
Correlation between fractional anisotropy and motor outcomes in one-year-old infants with periventricular brain injury.	To determine whether motor outcomes of an exercise intervention beginning at 2 months corrected age (CA) in children with periventricular brain injury (PBI) are correlated with fractional anisotropy (FA) measures derived from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) at 12 months CA.
Analysis of rheumatoid factor according to various hepatitis B virus infectious statuses.	Rheumatoid factor (RF) can be seen in hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. We investigated RF positive rates according to various HBV infectious statuses and vaccination, and the relationship between RF titers and serum HBV DNA levels.
Infant formula samples: perinatal sources and breast-feeding outcomes at 1 month postpartum.	The purpose was to describe sources of infant formula samples during the perinatal period and assess their associations with breast-feeding outcomes at 1 month postpartum. Subjects included expectant mothers who anticipated breast-feeding at least 1 month. Infant feeding history and sources of formula samples were obtained at 1 month postpartum. Associations between sources and breast-feeding outcomes were assessed using partial correlation. Of the 61 subjects who initiated breast-feeding, most were white (87%), married (75%), college-educated (75%), and planned exclusive breast-feeding (82%). Forty-two subjects (69%) continued breast-feeding at 1 month postpartum. Subjects received formula samples from the hospital (n = 40; 66%), physician's office (n = 10; 16%), and mail (n = 41; 67%). There were no significant correlations between formula samples from the hospital, physician's office, and/or mail and any or exclusive breast-feeding at 1 month (P > .05). In addition to the hospital, a long-standing source of formula samples, mail was also frequently reported as a route for distribution. The lack of statistically significant associations between formula samples and any or exclusive breast-feeding at 1 month may be related to small sample size and unique characteristics of the group studied. 
Barriers to the utilization of HIV/AIDS surveillance data in Mexico]	Qualitative study to identify and understand the barriers to using HIV/AIDS surveillance data experienced at the state level in Mexico.
Managerial span of control: a pilot study comparing departmental complexity and number of direct reports.	Nurse managers play pivotal roles in hospitals. However, restructuring has resulted in nurse managers having wider span of control and reduced visibility. The purpose of this pilot study was to compare two methods of measuring span of control: departmental complexity and number of direct reports. Forty-one nurse managers across nine hospitals completed The Ottawa Hospital Clinical Manager Span of Control Tool (TOH-SOC) and a demographic survey. A moderate positive relationship between number of direct reports and departmental complexity score was identified (r=.49, p=<.01). Intensive care departments were more likely to be classified differently, using departmental complexity compared to number of direct reports (54%). TOH-SOC is a reliable instrument (Cronbach's alpha = .838). Using departmental complexity rather than direct reports may more accurately reflect the full scope of nurse managers' responsibility. 
Carotid artery stenting: is there a volume-outcome correlation?]	Since carotid artery stenting was introduced into clinical practice as an alternative treatment option for significant carotid artery stenosis, several randomized trials have been published with different minimum requirements for the treating interventionalist and therefore different event rates. Analysis of large single center studies and registries has shown a significant decrease in event rates with an increase in experience in carotid artery stenting techniques. The randomized trials with exactly defined minimum requirements including a reasonable number of prior carotid artery interventions showed comparable results between carotid artery stenting and surgical approaches. 
How I explore the various statistical facets of 2 x 2 tables in medicine]	In the medical scientific literature, 2 x 2 contingency tables are widely used to display the distribution of binary data. They are associated with the definition of basic concepts in medicine and epidemiology that are universally utilized. They are usually taught in any basic course in biostatistics early in the medical curriculum; their interpretation however is not always straightforward. We have discerned at least eight different facets of such fourfold tables: homogeneity test, independence test, McNemar test, Cohen kappa coefficient, incidence relative risk, prevalence relative risk, odds ratio, diagnostic value of a clinical test. Each facet is illustrated by a clinical problem used as an example. This article should help the reader to understand which table he/she is actually dealing with.
Taking control of aggression: Perceptions of aggression suppress the link between perceptions of facial masculinity and attractiveness.	Women's preferences for masculine-looking male faces are inconsistent across studies, with some studies finding a positive relationship between masculinity and attractiveness and others finding a negative relationship or no association. One possible reason for this inconsistency is that the perception of masculinity is also associated with perceptions of aggression, which may be viewed as particularly costly to women (aggressive individuals are more likely to experience injury or death). Based on the proposal that women's preference for masculinity is in conflict with their aversion for aggression in male faces, we hypothesized that the bivariate associations between perceptions of masculinity and attractiveness would be weak or negative, but would be positive and significantly stronger after controlling statistically for perceptions of aggression. Across three studies involving three sets of faces (n = 25, 54, 24) and five sets of raters (n = 29, 30, 26, 16, 10), this hypothesis was supported with the average correlation between perceptions of masculinity and attractiveness (r = -.09) reversing in direction and substantially increasing in magnitude after perceptions of aggression were controlled statistically (r = .35). Perceived masculinity may thus involve both attractive and unattractive components, and women's preferences for masculinity may involve weighing its relative costs and benefits. 
Opposite associations of plasma homoarginine and ornithine with arginine in healthy children and adolescents.	Homoarginine, a non-proteinogenic amino acid, is formed when lysine replaces ornithine in reactions catalyzed by hepatic urea cycle enzymes or lysine substitutes for glycine as a substrate of renal arginine:glycine amidinotransferase. Decreased circulating homoarginine and elevated ornithine, a downstream product of arginase, predict adverse cardiovascular outcome. Our aim was to investigate correlates of plasma homoarginine and ornithine and their relations with carotid vascular structure in 40 healthy children and adolescents aged 3-18 years without coexistent diseases or subclinical carotid atherosclerosis. Homoarginine, ornithine, arginine, asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA) were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry with stable isotope-labeled internal standards. Intima-media thickness (IMT) and extra-medial thickness (EMT) of common carotid arteries were estimated by B-mode ultrasound. Homoarginine correlated with arginine (r = 0.43, p = 0.005), age (r = 0.42, p = 0.007) and, weakly, with an increased arginine-to-ornithine ratio, a putative measure of lower arginase activity (r = 0.31, p = 0.048). Ornithine correlated inversely with arginine (r = -0.64, p < 0.001). IMT, EMT or their sum were unrelated to any of the biochemical parameters (p > 0.12). Thus, opposite associations of plasma homoarginine and ornithine with arginine may partially result from possible involvement of arginase, an enzyme controlling homoarginine degradation and ornithine synthesis from arginine. Age-dependency of homoarginine levels can reflect developmental changes in homoarginine metabolism. However, neither homoarginine nor ornithine appears to be associated with carotid vascular structure in healthy children and adolescents.
Impaired motor speech performance in Huntington's disease.	Dysarthria is a common symptom of Huntington's disease and has been reported, besides other features, to be characterized by alterations of speech rate and regularity. However, data on the specific pattern of motor speech impairment and their relationship to other motor and neuropsychological symptoms are sparse. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to describe and objectively analyse different speech parameters with special emphasis on the aspect of speech timing of connected speech and non-speech verbal utterances. 21 patients with manifest Huntington's disease and 21 age- and gender-matched healthy controls had to perform a reading task and several syllable repetition tasks. Computerized acoustic analysis of different variables for the measurement of speech rate and regularity generated a typical pattern of impaired motor speech performance with a reduction of speech rate, an increase of pauses and a marked disability to steadily repeat single syllables. Abnormalities of speech parameters were more pronounced in the subgroup of patients with Huntington's disease receiving antidopaminergic medication, but were also present in the drug-naïve patients. Speech rate related to connected speech and parameters of syllable repetition showed correlations to overall motor impairment, capacity of tapping in a quantitative motor assessment and some score of cognitive function. After these preliminary data, further investigations on patients in different stages of disease are warranted to survey if the analysis of speech and non-speech verbal utterances might be a helpful additional tool for the monitoring of functional disability in Huntington's disease. 
Plasma BDNF levels are correlated with aggressiveness in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer disease.	In the present study, we examined whether neuropsychiatric symptoms were correlated with plasma brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels as a state marker or were associated with the BDNF polymorphism Val66Met in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (A-MCI) or Alzheimer disease (AD). One hundred and seventy-six outpatients with AD (n = 129) or A-MCI (n = 47) were selected and their plasma BDNF concentrations measured. Next, we investigated the correlation between the plasma BDNF level and the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer Disease (Behave-AD) subscale scores, which reflect neuropsychiatric symptoms. We also compared the plasma BDNF level and the Behave-AD subscale scores among the BDNF Val66Met genotypic groups. Among the seven Behave-AD subscale scores, aggressiveness was positively correlated with the plasma BDNF level (ρ = 0.237, P < 0.005), but did not differ significantly among the three BDNF Val66Met genotypic groups. The Behave-AD total and other subscale scores did not differ significantly among the BDNF Val66Met genotypic groups and were not associated with the plasma BDNF level. Moreover, the plasma BDNF level did not differ significantly among the three BDNF Val66Met genotypic groups or between patients with A-MCI and those with AD. The plasma BDNF level was robustly correlated with aggressiveness, implying that the plasma BDNF level might be useful as a behavioral state marker in patients with AD or A-MCI. 
Hyperspectral cytometry.	Hyperspectral cytometry is an emerging technology for single-cell analysis that combines ultrafast optical spectroscopy and flow cytometry. Spectral cytometry systems utilize diffraction gratings or prism-based monochromators to disperse fluorescence signals from multiple labels (organic dyes, nanoparticles, or fluorescent proteins) present in each analyzed bioparticle onto linear detector arrays such as multianode photomultipliers or charge-coupled device sensors. The resultant data, consisting of a series of characterizing every analyzed cell, are not compensated by employing the traditional cytometry approach, but rather are spectrally unmixed utilizing algorithms such as constrained Poisson regression or non-negative matrix factorization. Although implementations of spectral cytometry were envisioned as early as the 1980s, only recently has the development of highly sensitive photomultiplier tube arrays led to design and construction of functional prototypes and subsequently to introduction of commercially available systems. This chapter summarizes the historical efforts and work in the field of spectral cytometry performed at Purdue University Cytometry Laboratories and describes the technology developed by Sony Corporation that resulted in release of the first commercial spectral cytometry system-the Sony SP6800. A brief introduction to spectral data analysis is also provided, with emphasis on the differences between traditional polychromatic and spectral cytometry approaches. 
A 10-year update of CHOP-Bleo in the treatment of diffuse large-cell lymphoma.	Long-term follow-up results of two studies using cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone plus bleomycin (CHOP-Bleo) for the treatment of diffuse large-cell lymphoma are presented. Twenty-eight patients were treated with conventional-dose CHOP-Bleo and 36 patients with maximally tolerated doses of CHOP-Bleo. The maximal duration of follow-up was 10.5 years. The minimum follow-up was 5.7 years. Seventy-five percent of the conventional-dose group achieved a complete remission (CR) with a 10-year actuarial survival of 53% and a corresponding relapse-free survival (RFS) of 69% for CRs. Eighty-one percent of the high-dose group achieved CR, and the 10-year actuarial survival for all patients and RFS for CRs were 48% and 63%, respectively. The combined actuarial survival and RFS for both groups were 51% and 66%, respectively, at 10 years. For 11 patients with stage III disease, 91% achieved CR, 52% survived at 10 years, and the RFS was 67% for CRs. Seventy-five percent of 44 patients with stage IV disease achieved CR, 50% survived at 10 years, and the RFS was 67% for CRs. Three of the 16 relapses occurred late, between 30 to 65 months after initiation of therapy. Neuropathy occurred in 14 patients (22%). Five patients (8%) died of complications related to treatment. Five (8%) had clinically apparent, but nonfatal cardiopulmonary complications. The CHOP-Bleo regimen is an effective treatment for diffuse large-cell lymphoma, and is moderately well tolerated. The use of high-dose CHOP-Bleo for induction therapy did not result in any advantage after long-term follow-up.
Correlation between two biomarkers of atherosclerosis, osteopontin and angiopoietin-2, in non-diabetic ankylosing spondylitis patients undergoing TNF-α antagonist therapy.	To determine whether circulating osteopontin (OPN) levels in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) undergoing TNF-α antagonist-infliximab-therapy are increased compared with controls and to establish whether disease activity, systemic inflammation, metabolic syndrome, adipokines and biomarkers of atherosclerosis are potential determinants of circulating OPN levels in these patients.
The influence of left and right hemisphere brain damage on configural and featural processing of affective faces.	The literature about the lateralization of facial emotion perception according to valence (positive, negative) is conflicting; investigating the underlying processes may shed light on why some studies show right-hemisphere dominance across valence and other studies demonstrate hemispheric differences according to valence. This is the first clinical study to examine whether the use of configural and featural cues underlies hemispheric differences in affective face perception. Right brain-damaged (RBD; n = 17), left brain-damaged (LBD; n = 17) and healthy control (HC; n = 34) participants completed an affective face discrimination task that tested configural processing using whole faces and featural processing using partial faces. No group differences in expression perception according to valence or processing strategy were found. Across emotions, the RBD group was less accurate than the HC group in discriminating whole faces, whilst the RBD and LBD groups were less accurate than HCs in discriminating partial faces. This suggests that the right hemisphere processes facial expressions from configural and featural information, whereas the left hemisphere relies more heavily on featural facial information. 
Gelsolin levels are decreased in ankylosing spondylitis patients undergoing anti-TNF-alpha therapy.	To determine whether circulating gelsolin (GSN) levels in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) undergoing TNF-α antagonist-infliximab-therapy are altered compared with controls and to establish whether disease activity, systemic inflammation and metabolic syndrome are potential determinants of circulating GSN levels in these patients.
The effect of serious mental illness on the risk of rehospitalization among patients with diabetes.	Medical-surgical rehospitalizations within a month after discharge among patients with diabetes result in tremendous costs to the US health care system.
Use of the h-index to measure the quality of the output of health services researchers.	To assess the use of the h-index to measure the quality of the output of health services researchers.
Relationship between statistical properties of single ionic channel recordings and the thermodynamic state of the channels.	Recordings of the electric conductivity of a single ionic channel usually exhibit two levels of conductance: a zero and a finite level. The channel may, however, be in a few states which have the same conductivity level, and the distribution of dwell time durations at this conductivity level is thus not monoexponential. It is shown that the joint probability p(tc,to) of the occurrence of a time interval tc during which the channel is not conducting, immediately followed by a time interval to during which the channel is conducting may or may not be equal to the joint probability pr(tc,to) of the occurrence of a non-conducting interval tc preceded by a conducting interval to. If the interconversions between the various states in which the channel can exist obey detailed balance, i.e., if the channel behaves like a system at thermodynamic equilibrium, then p(tc,to) = pr(tc,to). This should help to reveal whether irreversible processes, like metabolic reactions or flows of substances across the membrane, are coupled to the gating process of the ionic channels.
Reliability and validity of the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS) in youth at clinical high risk for psychosis.	Assessment of depression in individuals who are considered to be at clinical high risk (CHR) for psychosis is important as high rates of depression have been reported in CHR individuals. The Calgary Depression Scale (CDSS) is the most widely used scale for assessing depression in schizophrenia. It has excellent psychometric properties, internal consistency, inter-rater reliability, sensitivity, specificity, and discriminant and convergent validity. The aim of this study was to test the reliability and validity of the CDSS in a sample of youth at CHR for psychosis. Participants were assessed for depression, presence of axis 1 mood disorders, and prodromal symptoms using the CDSS, the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders (SCID-1), and the Scale of Prodromal Symptoms (SOPS). The CDSS total score as well as all individual items, except "guilty ideas of reference," were significantly associated with the presence of a major depressive disorder. Significant correlations were observed between CDSS total score and the dysphoric mood item on the SOPS. There was some evidence of overlap between the CDSS and both attenuated positive symptoms and negative symptoms as assessed by the SOPS. It is concluded that CDSS is a reliable scale suitable for assessing depression in individuals considered to be at CHR for psychosis. 
The haematology of steady state homozygous sickle cell disease: interrelationships between haematological indices.	The interrelationships between steady state haematological variables in 825 patients with homozygous sickle cell (SS) disease have been examined. On simple correlation coefficient analysis HbA2 correlated negatively with both HbF and MCV, red cell count (RBC) correlated positively with total haemoglobin and negatively with MCV and reticulocytes, and MCV correlated positively with reticulocytes. Less consistent were positive correlations between HbA2 and RBC, between HbF and both MCV and haemoglobin, between MCHC and MCV, and a negative relationship between haemoglobin and reticulocyte count. Partial correlation coefficient analysis clarified some of these relationships. In principal component analysis, the first component weighted positively on Hb and RBC and negatively on reticulocytes and possibly reflected the haemolytic rate. The second component weighted positively on HbF and MCV and negatively on HbA2 and may be related to alpha thalassaemia status. The third component weighted almost exclusively on MCHC and may relate to the degree of intracellular polymerization of HbS. These three components accounted for approximately 75% of the total variation in the haematological data.
A method of calculating the value of palliative care of cancer patients.	There are no entirely satisfactory methods for measuring the value of palliative treatment of advanced cancer. A useful instrument of measurement should take into account both length and quality of survival. A method is proposed for determining the area under the time-quality of life curve, using Simpson's discrete approximation, an algorithm which can be programmed simply into a small computer or programmable calculator. The Karnofsky index has been used as an indicator of the quality of life, but the method is adaptable to other quality of life scales. Efficiency of palliation can be estimated by comparison with the area produced by theoretically perfect palliation. The ability to quantitate palliation in these ways might help to resolve uncertainties that surround the alternative methods of management of incurable cancer.
Social cognition and neurocognitive deficits in first-episode schizophrenia.	Recent research has shown a significant impact of social cognitive domains on real world functioning and prognosis in schizophrenia. However, the correlations between specific aspects of social cognition, neurocognition, IQ and clinical symptoms remain unclear in first-episode schizophrenia. Researchers have speculated about social cognitive subgroups since patients with schizophrenia appear to be a very heterogeneous group.
White matter pathway organization of the reward system is related to positive and negative symptoms in schizophrenia.	The reward system in schizophrenia has been linked to the emergence of delusions on the one hand and to negative symptoms such as affective flattening on the other hand. Previous Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) studies reported white matter microstructure alterations of regions related to the reward system. The present study aimed at extending these findings by specifically investigating connection pathways of the reward system in schizophrenia. Therefore, 24 patients with schizophrenia and 22 healthy controls matched for age and gender underwent DTI-scans. Using a probabilistic fiber tracking approach we bilaterally extracted pathways connecting the ventral tegmental area (VTA) with the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), the medial and lateral orbitofrontal cortices (mOFC, lOFC), the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the amygdala; as well as pathways connecting NAcc with mOFC, lOFC, dlPFC and amygdala resulting in a total of 18 connections. Probability indices forming part of a bundle of interest (PIBI) were compared between groups using independent t-tests. In 6 connection pathways PIBI-values were increased in schizophrenia. In 3 of these pathways the spatial extension of connection pathways was decreased. In schizophrenia patients, there was a negative correlation of PIBI-values and PANSS negative scores in the left VTA-amygdala and in the left NAcc-mOFC connection. A sum score of delusions and hallucinations correlated positively with PIBI-values of the left amygdala-NAcc connection. Structural organization of specific segments of white matter pathways of the reward system in schizophrenia may contribute to the emergence of delusions and negative symptoms in schizophrenia. 
Enhanced styrene recovery from waste polystyrene pyrolysis using response surface methodology coupled with Box-Behnken design.	A work applied response surface methodology coupled with Box-Behnken design (RSM-BBD) has been developed to enhance styrene recovery from waste polystyrene (WPS) through pyrolysis. The relationship between styrene yield and three selected operating parameters (i.e., temperature, heating rate, and carrier gas flow rate) was investigated. A second order polynomial equation was successfully built to describe the process and predict styrene yield under the study conditions. The factors identified as statistically significant to styrene production were: temperature, with a quadratic effect; heating rate, with a linear effect; carrier gas flow rate, with a quadratic effect; interaction between temperature and carrier gas flow rate; and interaction between heating rate and carrier gas flow rate. The optimum conditions for the current system were determined to be at a temperature range of 470-505°C, a heating rate of 40°C/min, and a carrier gas flow rate range of 115-140mL/min. Under such conditions, 64.52% WPS was recovered as styrene, which was 12% more than the highest reported yield for reactors of similar size. It is concluded that RSM-BBD is an effective approach for yield optimization of styrene recovery from WPS pyrolysis. 
Methods for pharmacokinetic analysis in young children.	Pediatric physiology and disease states are often complex and are distinct from adults. Pediatric clinicians and scientists, as well as governmental regulators, are increasingly concerned with the necessity to optimize clinical pharmacological study design to achieve appropriate drug-dosing practices for various pediatric populations.
Levels of chemerin and interleukin 8 in the synovial fluid of patients with inflammatory arthritides and osteoarthritis.	Chemerin and interleukin (IL)-8 are pro-inflammatory mediators whose role in joint inflammation and cartilage degradation has been demonstrated in in-vitro findings. Studies on their presence in synovial fluid (SF) samples may offer further information on their pathogenic role. The aim of this study was to investigate SF chemerin and IL-8 levels in patients with different joint diseases.
Disrupted thalamo-cortical connectivity in schizophrenia: a morphometric correlation analysis.	Increasing studies have implicated the thalamus in schizophrenia, supporting the view that this structure has an important role in this disorder. Given that extensive reciprocal connections exist between the thalamus and the cerebral cortex, it is believed that disruptions of the thalamo-cortical connections may underlie the multiplicity of schizophrenic symptoms. Therefore, assessing the relationship between the thalamus and the neocortex may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. We analyzed magnetic resonance images from a sample of 101 schizophrenic patients and 101 healthy controls. By assessing the correlation between the thalamic volume and cortical thickness at each vertex on the cortical surface, a thalamo-cortical network was obtained for each group. We compared the patterns of thalamo-cortical connectivity between the two groups. Compared with healthy controls, less distributed cortical regions were identified in the thalamo-cortical network in patients with schizophrenia. Vertex-wise comparison revealed decreased thalamo-cortical connectivity in bilateral inferior frontal gyrus, the left superior temporal gyrus and the right parieto-occipital region in schizophrenia. The observed disruptions in thalamo-cortical connectivity might be the substrate underlying the wide range of schizophrenic symptoms and provide further evidence to support the notion of schizophrenia as a disorder of brain dysconnectivity. 
Measuring motivation in schizophrenia: is a general state of motivation necessary for task-specific motivation?	Despite the important role of motivation in rehabilitation and functional outcomes in schizophrenia, to date, there has been little emphasis on how motivation is assessed. This is important, since different measures may tap potentially discrete motivational constructs, which in turn may have very different associations to important outcomes. In the current study, we used baseline data from 71 schizophrenia spectrum outpatients enrolled in a rehabilitation program to examine the relationship between task-specific motivation, as measured by the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory (IMI), and a more general state of volition/initiation, as measured by the three item Quality of Life (QLS) motivation index. We also examined the relationship of these motivation measures to demographic, clinical and functional variables relevant to rehabilitation outcomes. The two motivation measures were not correlated, and participants with low general state motivation exhibited a full range of task-specific motivation. Only the QLS motivation index correlated with variables relevant to rehabilitation outcomes. The lack of associations between QLS motivation index and IMI subscales suggests that constructs tapped by these measures may be divergent in schizophrenia, and specifically that task-specific intrinsic motivation is not contingent on a general state of motivation. That is, even in individuals with a general low motivational state (i.e. amotivation), interventions aimed at increasing task-specific motivation may still be effective. Moreover, the pattern of interrelationships between the QLS motivation index and variables relevant to psychosocial rehabilitation supports its use in treatment outcome studies. 
Altered depth of the olfactory sulcus in ultra high-risk individuals and patients with psychotic disorders.	A shallow olfactory sulcus has been reported in schizophrenia, possibly reflecting abnormal forebrain development during early gestation. However, it remains unclear whether this anomaly exists prior to the onset of psychosis and/or differs according to illness stage. In the current study, magnetic resonance imaging was used to investigate the length and depth of the olfactory sulcus in 135 ultra high-risk (UHR) individuals [of whom 52 later developed psychosis (UHR-P) and 83 did not (UHR-NP)], 162 patients with first-episode psychosis (FEP), 89 patients with chronic schizophrenia, and 87 healthy controls. While there was no group difference in the length of the sulcus, UHR-P subjects had significantly shallower olfactory sulcus at baseline as compared with UHR-NP and control subjects. The depth of this sulcus became increasingly more superficial as one moved from UHR-P subjects to FEP patients to chronic schizophrenia patients. Finally, the depth of the olfactory sulcus in the UHR-P subjects was negatively correlated with the severity of negative symptoms. These findings suggest that the altered depth of the olfactory sulcus, which exists before psychosis onset, could be predictive of transition to psychosis, but also suggest ongoing changes of the sulcus morphology during the course of the illness. 
The effect of Parkinson's disease subgroups on verbal and nonverbal fluency.	Parkinson's disease (PD) leads to deficits in executive function, including verbal and nonverbal fluency, as a result of compromised frontostriatal circuits. It is unknown whether deficits in verbal and nonverbal fluency in PD are driven by certain subgroups of patients, or how strategy use may facilitate performance.
Statistical study of a semiquantitative evaluation of testicular biopsies.	A statistical method was used to evaluate 629 testicular biopsies on which a semiquantitative morphometric analysis was applied. The results confirm with a high level of significance (p less than 0.001) the qualitative knowledge of testicular pathology. Some tight correlations between histological and/or cytological parameters are enlightened.
A longitudinal cohort study of intelligence and later hospitalisation with mental disorder.	Few studies on the associations between pre-morbid IQ and mental disorders are based on comprehensive assessment of intelligence in both women and men and include a wide range of confounding variables. Thus, the objective of the present study was to examine the association between pre-morbid IQ and hospitalisation with any mental disorder, including possible gender differences in the association.
Variability in interpretation of immunohistologic findings in lymphoproliferative disorders by hematopathologists. A comprehensive statistical analysis of interobserver performance.	Eight hematopathologists independently reviewed 56 consecutive cases of benign and malignant lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD) to determine: (1) the degree of interobserver agreement on the interpretation of immunologic findings on fresh-frozen sections alone and on that of the immunologic findings in conjunction with corresponding hematoxylin and eosin (H & E)-stained histologic sections; (2) whether prior knowledge of morphologic characteristics influences the interpretation of immunohistologic sections; (3) whether immunologic phenotype could be predicted reliably based solely on study of histologic sections; and (4) the significance of immunologic data as an aid in the interpretation of histologic sections. The study was carried out in three independent review sessions consisting of (1) review of immunohistologic sections only, (2) review of the same immunohistologic sections together with histologic sections, and (3) review of the histologic sections alone. A consensus diagnosis was defined as agreement of five or more pathologists on the final diagnosis and identification of the immunophenotype. When the authors compared the total number of major disagreements in the first review session with those in the second, the accuracy of the determination of immunophenotype in the second session was clearly superior (P less than 0.05). Similarly, the total number of major disagreements in the second review session was significantly lower than that in the third review session (P less than 0.001). When histologic diagnoses in the second session were compared with those in the third session, it became apparent that the immunologic data helped the pathologist to correct major misinterpretations in 14 cases (25%). This study is the first to demonstrate quantitatively that (1) knowledge of morphologic features influences and greatly enhances the accuracy of the interpretation of immunologic findings, (2) the immunophenotype of LPD cannot be predicted based on morphologic findings alone, and (3) immunologic findings improve the accuracy of interpretation of histologic findings in situations in which a diagnosis cannot be made from morphologic features only.
Theta activity in local field potential of the ventral tegmental area in sleeping and waking rats.	Hippocampal theta rhythm appears in two vigilance states: active waking and paradoxical sleep. The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is active in sleep and waking and is connected to the hippocampus. We assessed the relationship between local field potential (LFP) of the VTA and sleep-waking stages in freely moving rats. Electrical activity of the VTA was divided into: quiet waking (W), waking with theta (WT), slow wave sleep (SWS) and paradoxical sleep (PS), depending on the hippocampal signal and the animal's behavior. We analyzed total power in the VTA signal and we also extracted peak power (Pmax) and corresponding frequency (Fmax) in theta and delta bands from both the VTA and hippocampal recording. In the VTA the 6-9 Hz band had the highest power during PS, and the ratio of the 6-9 to 3-6 Hz power was highest during both PS and WT, which accentuated Pmax of this particular theta sub-band. During W, a very slight increase (or plateau) in signal power was seen in theta range. Pmax and Fmax of theta were higher in PS than in both WT and W, and these parameters did not differ between W and WT. During WT and PS, Fmax in the 6-9 Hz band was greatly correlated between the VTA and hippocampus signal. We also detected high cross-correlation in power spectra between the hippocampus and the VTA (for delta and theta, during WT and PS). The results suggest that the VTA may belong to the broad network involved in theta rhythm induction.
miRNA as markers for the diagnostic screening of colon cancer.	Early screening for colon cancer (CC) allows for early stage diagnosis of the malignancy and potentially reduces disease mortality as the cancer is most likely curable at its earliest stages. Early detection would be desirable if accurate, practical and cost-effective diagnostic measures for this cancer were available. Mortality and morbidity from CC represent a major health problem involving a malignant disease that is theoretically preventable through screening. Current screening methods (e.g., the convenient and inexpensive immunological fecal occult blood test, FOBTi, obtained from patients' medical records) either lack sensitivity and require dietary restriction, which impedes compliance and use; are costly (e.g., colonoscopy), which decreases compliance; or could result in mortality. In comparison with the FOBT test, a non-invasive sensitive screen for which there is no requirement for dietary restriction would be a more convenient test. Colorectal cancer is the only cancer for which colonoscopy is recommended as a screening method. Although colonoscopy is a reliable screening tool, the invasive nature, abdominal pain, potential complications and high cost have hampered the application of this procedure worldwide. A screening approach using the stable miRNA molecules, which are relatively non-degradable when extracted from non-invasive stool and semi-invasive blood samples by commercially available kits and manipulated thereafter, would be preferable to a transcriptomic mRNA-, a mutation DNA-, an epigenetic- or a proteomic-based test. The approach uses reverse transcriptase, modified real-time quantitative PCR. Although exosomal RNA would be missed, using a restricted extraction of total RNA from stool or blood, a parallel test could also be carried out on RNA obtained from stool or plasma samples, and appropriate corrections for exsosomal loss can be made for accurate and quantitative test result. Eventually, a chip can be developed to facilitate diagnosis, as has been done for the quantification of genetically modified organisms in foods. The gold standard to which the molecular miRNA test is compared is colonoscopy, which can be obtained from patients' medical records. If performance criteria are met, as detailed herein, a miRNA test in human stool or blood samples based on high-throughput automated technologies and quantitative expression measurements commonly used in the diagnostic clinical laboratory should be advanced to the clinical setting, which will make a significant impact on CC prevention. 
Improvement of sample size calculations for binary diagnostic test assessment.	This study aimed to formulate a new R function to improve sample size calculation for more accurate estimations of sensitivity (Se) and specificity (Sp).
The meaning of "significance" for different types of research [translated and annotated by Eric-Jan Wagenmakers, Denny Borsboom, Josine Verhagen, Rogier Kievit, Marjan Bakker, Angelique Cramer, Dora Matzke, Don Mellenbergh, and Han L. J. van der Maas]. 1969.	Adrianus Dingeman de Groot (1914-2006) was one of the most influential Dutch psychologists. He became famous for his work "Thought and Choice in Chess", but his main contribution was methodological--De Groot co-founded the Department of Psychological Methods at the University of Amsterdam (together with R. F. van Naerssen), founded one of the leading testing and assessment companies (CITO), and wrote the monograph "Methodology" that centers on the empirical-scientific cycle: observation-induction-deduction-testing-evaluation. Here we translate one of De Groot's early articles, published in 1956 in the Dutch journal Nederlands Tijdschrift voor de Psychologie en Haar Grensgebieden. This article is more topical now than it was almost 60years ago. De Groot stresses the difference between exploratory and confirmatory ("hypothesis testing") research and argues that statistical inference is only sensible for the latter: "One 'is allowed' to apply statistical tests in exploratory research, just as long as one realizes that they do not have evidential impact". De Groot may have also been one of the first psychologists to argue explicitly for preregistration of experiments and the associated plan of statistical analysis. The appendix provides annotations that connect De Groot's arguments to the current-day debate on transparency and reproducibility in psychological science.
Avalanche correlations in the martensitic transition of a Cu-Zn-Al shape memory alloy: analysis of acoustic emission and calorimetry.	The existence of temporal correlations during the intermittent dynamics of a thermally driven structural phase transition is studied in a Cu-Zn-Al alloy. The sequence of avalanches is observed by means of two techniques: acoustic emission and high sensitivity calorimetry. Both methods reveal the existence of event clustering in a way that is equivalent to the Omori correlations between aftershocks in earthquakes as are commonly used in seismology. 
Exhaled breath condensate pH decreases during exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.	Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) is the temporary narrowing of the airways caused by physical exercise. Its exact pathophysiology is unclear; however, acute changes in airways pH may play a role. Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) pH was suggested as a surrogate indicator for airway acid-base status, but its value is also affected by volatile molecules and respiratory droplet dilution. The aim of the study was to assess changes in EBC pH during EIB.
The relationship between impulsivity and lipid levels in bipolar patients: does temperament explain it?	The aim of this study was to investigate whether there was a relationship between impulsivity and lipid levels in patients with bipolar disorder (BD) and to examine the correlation of impulsivity and lipid levels with temperament subtypes.
Cystatin C: a potential biomarker for pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Cystatin C (CysC), a novel marker of renal function, predicts left heart failure and cardiovascular mortality. The hypothesis that serum CysC levels correlate with right ventricular (RV) morphology, function and pressure in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) was tested.
Prevalence and dimensionality of hallucination-like experiences in young adults.	The study of hallucination-like experiences (HLEs) in non-clinical populations is increasingly used to corroborate etiological models of psychosis. This method capitalizes on the absence of confounding factors that typically affect the study of hallucinations in clinical subjects.
Actionable data analytics in oncology: are we there yet?	To operate under a new value-based paradigm, oncology providers must develop the capability to aggregate, analyze, measure, and report their value proposition--that is, their outcomes and associated costs. How are oncology providers positioned currently to perform these functions in a manner that is actionable? What is the current state of analytic capabilities in oncology? Are oncology providers prepared? This line of inquiry was the basis for the 2013 Cancer Center Business Summit annual industry research survey. This article reports on the key findings and implications of the 2013 research survey with regard to data analytic capabilities in the oncology sector. The essential finding from the study is that only a small number of oncology providers (7%) currently possess the analytic tools and capabilities necessary to satisfy internal and external demands for aggregating and reporting clinical outcome and economic data. However there is an expectation that a majority of oncology providers (60%) will have developed such capabilities within the next 2 years.
Is the relationship between affective temperament and resilience different in depression cases with and without childhood trauma?	The aim of this study was to investigate if the relationship between affective temperament and resilience in major depression is different in cases with and without childhood trauma.
X-ray absorption spectroscopy of metalloproteins.	Metalloproteins are enormously important in biology. While a variety of techniques exist for studying metals in biology, X-ray absorption spectroscopy is particularly useful in that it can determine the local electronic and physical structure around the metal center, and is one of the few avenues for studying "spectroscopically silent" metal ions like Zn(II) and Cu(I) that have completely filled valence bands. While X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) are useful for studying metalloprotein structure, they suffer the limitation that the detected signal is an average of all the various metal centers in the sample, which limits its usefulness for studying metal centers in situ or in cell lysates. It would be desirable to be able to separate the various proteins in a mixture prior to performing X-ray absorption studies, so that the derived signal is from one species only. Here we describe a method for performing X-ray absorption spectroscopy on protein bands following electrophoretic separation and western blotting. 
On the statistics of identifying candidate pathogen effectors.	High-throughput sequencing is an increasingly accessible tool for cataloging gene complements of plant pathogens and their hosts. It has had great impact in plant pathology, enabling rapid acquisition of data for a wide range of pathogens and hosts, leading to the selection of novel candidate effector proteins, and/or associated host targets (Bart et al., Proc Nat Acad Sci U S A doi:10.1073/pnas.1208003109, 2012; Agbor and McCormick, Cell Microbiol 13:1858-1869, 2011; Fabro et al., PLoS Pathog 7:e1002348, 2011; Kim et al., Mol Plant Pathol 2:715-730, 2011; Kimbrel et al., Mol Plant Pathol 12:580-594, 2011; O'Brien et al., Curr Opin Microbiol 14:24-30, 2011; Vleeshouwers et al., Annu Rev Phytopathol 49:507-531, 2011; Sarris et al., Mol Plant Pathol 11:795-804, 2010; Boch and Bonas, Annu Rev Phytopathol 48:419-436, 2010; Mcdermott et al., Infect Immun 79:23-32, 2011).Identification of candidate effectors from genome data is not different from classification in any other high-content or high-throughput experiment. The primary aim is to discover a set of qualitative or quantitative sequence characteristics that discriminate, with a defined level of certainty, between proteins that have previously been identified as being either "effector" (positive) or "not effector" (negative). Combination of these characteristics in a mathematical model, or classifier, enables prediction of whether a protein is or is not an effector, with a defined level of certainty. High-throughput screening of the gene complement is then performed to identify candidate effectors; this may seem straightforward, but it is unfortunately very easy to identify seemingly persuasive candidate effectors that are, in fact, entirely spurious.The main sources of danger in this area of statistical modeling are not entirely independent of each other, and include: inappropriate choice of classifier model; poor selection of reference sequences (known positive and negative examples); poor definition of classes (what is, and what is not, an effector); inadequate training sample size; poor model validation; and lack of adequate model performance metrics (Xia et al., Metabolomics doi:10.1007/s11306-012-0482-9, 2012). Many studies fail to take these issues into account, and thereby fail to discover anything of true significance or, worse, report spurious findings that are impossible to validate. Here we summarize the impact of these issues and present strategies to assist in improving design and evaluation of effector classifiers, enabling robust scientific conclusions to be drawn from the available data.
Tumor-to-breast volume ratio as measured on MRI: a possible predictor of breast-conserving surgery versus mastectomy.	The surgical approach to breast cancer changed dramatically in the past 20 years. The surgical objective today is to remove the tumor, ensuring negative margins and good cosmetic results, and preserving the breast when possible. Magnetic resonance imaging of the breast has become an essential imaging tool prior to surgery, diagnosing additional tumors and assessing tumor extent. Tumor-to-breast volume ratio, an important predictor of breast conservation, can be measured with MRI and may change the surgical decision.
Area under precision-recall curves for weighted and unweighted data.	Precision-recall curves are highly informative about the performance of binary classifiers, and the area under these curves is a popular scalar performance measure for comparing different classifiers. However, for many applications class labels are not provided with absolute certainty, but with some degree of confidence, often reflected by weights or soft labels assigned to data points. Computing the area under the precision-recall curve requires interpolating between adjacent supporting points, but previous interpolation schemes are not directly applicable to weighted data. Hence, even in cases where weights were available, they had to be neglected for assessing classifiers using precision-recall curves. Here, we propose an interpolation for precision-recall curves that can also be used for weighted data, and we derive conditions for classification scores yielding the maximum and minimum area under the precision-recall curve. We investigate accordances and differences of the proposed interpolation and previous ones, and we demonstrate that taking into account existing weights of test data is important for the comparison of classifiers. 
Discovery of a strongly-interrelated gene network in corals under constant darkness by correlation analysis after wavelet transform on complex network model.	Coral reefs occupy a relatively small portion of sea area, yet serve as a crucial source of biodiversity by establishing harmonious ecosystems with marine plants and animals. Previous researches mainly focused on screening several key genes induced by stress. Here we proposed a novel method--correlation analysis after wavelet transform of complex network model, to explore the effect of light on gene expression in the coral Acropora millepora based on microarray data. In this method, wavelet transform and the conception of complex network were adopted, and 50 key genes with large differences were finally captured, including both annotated genes and novel genes without accurate annotation. These results shed light on our understanding of coral's response toward light changes and the genome-wide interaction among genes under the control of biorhythm, and hence help us to better protect the coral reef ecosystems. Further studies are needed to explore how functional connections are related to structural connections, and how connectivity arises from the interactions within and between different systems. The method introduced in this study for analyzing microarray data will allow researchers to explore genome-wide interaction network with their own dataset and understand the relevant biological processes.
Tables for estimating the glomerular filtration rate using the new CKD-EPI equation from serum creatinine concentration.	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and its complications have become a major healthcare problem, both due to the resources that are required in the final stages of the disease and to secondary complications. As such, its early diagnosis is considered to be very important nowadays. The recently published 2013 KDIGO guidelines base the definition and classification of CKD on glomerular filtration values and albuminuria as staging criteria and prognostic markers of the disease. The MDRD and MDRD-IDMS equations (when creatinine values can be traced to the reference method) are those most used, but both the 2013 KDIGO international guidelines and the new 2013 CKD consensus document, in which ten scientific societies participated under the direction of the Spanish Society of Nephrology, recommend to be replaced by the CKD-EPI equation. Our objective has been, as with previous equations, to develop tables that display the estimated glomerular filtration rate value using the CKD-EPI equation from serum creatinine concentration, age and sex, and thereby provide an instrument that facilitates the dissemination of this new equation, particularly in settings where it is not calculated automatically. 
Double-contrast-enhanced sonography for diagnosis of rectal lesions with pathologic correlation.	Transabdominal sonography with a gastrointestinal contrast agent has been widely used in China for investigation of digestive disorders. Double-contrast-enhanced sonography combines a gastrointestinal luminal contrast agent with an intravenous contrast agent for imaging of lesions. The purpose of this pilot study was to assess the value of double-contrast-enhanced sonography for preoperative diagnosis of rectal lesions.
Adnexal sonographic findings in ectopic pregnancy and their correlation with tubal rupture and human chorionic gonadotropin levels.	To determine whether the distribution of transvaginal sonographic findings of ectopic pregnancy has changed since the studies done 20 years ago and to explore the correlation of tubal rupture with transvaginal sonographic findings and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels.
EPR dosimetry intercomparison using smart phone touch screen glass.	This paper presents the results of an interlaboratory comparison of retrospective dosimetry using the electron paramagnetic resonance method. The test material used in this exercise was glass coming from the touch screens of smart phones that might be used as fortuitous dosimeters in a large-scale radiological incident. There were 13 participants to whom samples were dispatched, and 11 laboratories reported results. The participants received five calibration samples (0, 0.8, 2, 4, and 10 Gy) and four blindly irradiated samples (0, 0.9, 1.3, and 3.3 Gy). Participants were divided into two groups: for group A (formed by three participants), samples came from a homogeneous batch of glass and were stored in similar setting; for group B (formed by eight participants), samples came from different smart phones and stored in different settings of light and temperature. The calibration curves determined by the participants of group A had a small error and a critical level in the 0.37-0.40-Gy dose range, whereas the curves determined by the participants of group B were more scattered and led to a critical level in the 1.3-3.2-Gy dose range for six participants out of eight. Group A were able to assess the dose within 20 % for the lowest doses (<1.5 Gy) and within 5 % for the highest doses. For group B, only the highest blind dose could be evaluated in a reliable way because of the high critical values involved. The results from group A are encouraging, whereas the results from group B suggest that the influence of environmental conditions and the intervariability of samples coming from different smart phones need to be further investigated. An alongside conclusion is that the protocol was easily transferred to participants making a network of laboratories in case of a mass casualty event potentially feasible.
Detection of cerebral arterial gas embolism using regional cerebral oxygen saturation, quantitative electroencephalography, and brain oxygen tension in the swine.	Cerebral air emboli occur as a complication of invasive medical procedures. The sensitivity of cerebral monitoring methods for the detection of air emboli is not known. This study investigates the utility of electroencephalography and non-invasively measured cerebral oxygen saturation in the detection of intracerebrovascular air.
Salt intake in children]	Very early in life, sodium intake correlates with blood pressure level. This warrants limiting the consumption of sodium by children. However, evidence regarding exact sodium requirements in that age range is lacking. This article focuses on the desirable sodium intake according to age as suggested by various groups of experts, on the levels of sodium intake recorded in consumption surveys, and on the public health strategies implemented to reduce salt consumption in the pediatric population. Practical recommendations are given by the Committee on nutrition of the French Society of Pediatrics in order to limit salt intake in children. 
Analysis of verbal fluency ability in Alzheimer's disease: the role of clustering, switching and semantic proximities.	The underlying nature of verbal fluency deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD) was investigated in this study. Participants were 48 individuals with AD and 48 cognitively healthy older adults. Fluency performance on letter and category tasks was analyzed across two 30-s intervals for total words produced, mean cluster size, and total switches. Compared with the control group, AD participants produced fewer words and switches on both fluency tasks and had a reduced category cluster size. The AD group was differentially impaired on category compared with letter fluency and produced more repetitive responses but fewer category exemplars than controls on the category task. A multidimensional scaling approach revealed that AD participants' semantic maps were similar to controls. Overall, the data suggest that executive abilities involving search and retrieval processes and a reduced availability of semantically related words contributed to the AD group's poorer performance despite similar temporal recall and organizational patterns. 
The relationship between allometry and preferred transition speed in human locomotion.	The purpose of this study was to explore the relationships between preferred transition speed (PTS) and anthropometric characteristics, body composition and different human body proportions in males. In a sample of 59 male students, we collected anthropometric and body composition data and determined individual PTS using increment protocol. The relationships between PTS and other variables were determined using Pearson correlation, stepwise linear and hierarchical regression. Body ratios were formed as quotient of two variables whereby at least one significantly correlated to PTS. Circular and transversal (except bitrochanteric diameter) body dimensions did not correlate with PTS. Moderate correlations were found between longitudinal leg dimensions (foot, leg and thigh length) and PTS, while the highest correlation was found for lower leg length (r=.488, p<.01). Two parameters related to body composition showed weak correlation with PTS: body fat mass (r=-.250, p<.05) and amount of lean leg mass scaled to body weight (r=.309, p<.05). Segmental body proportions correlated more significantly with PTS, where thigh/lower leg length ratio showed the highest correlation (r=.521, p<.01). Prediction model with individual variables (lower leg and foot length) have explained just 31% of PTS variability, while model with body proportions showed almost 20% better prediction (R(2)=.504). These results suggests that longitudinal leg dimensions have moderate influence on PTS and that segmental body proportions significantly more explain PTS than single anthropometric variables. 
Evaluation of imputation methods for microbial surface water quality studies.	Longitudinal studies of microbial water quality are subject to missing observations. This study evaluates multiple imputation (MI) against data deletion, mean or median imputation for replacing missing microbial water quality data. The specific context is data collected in Chicago Area Waterway System (2007-2009), where 45% of Escherichia coli and 53% of enterococci densities were missing owing to sample analysis deficiencies. Imputation methods were compared performing a simulation study using complete observations with introduced missing values and subsequently compared with the original data with missing observations. Coefficients for E. coli densities in linear regression models predicting somatic coliphages density show that MI introduces the least bias among other methods while controlling Type I error. Further exploration of utilizing different MI implementations is recommended to address the influence of missing percentage on MI performance and to explore sensitivity to the degree of violation of the missing completely at random assumption. 
Differential diagnostic ultrasound criteria of papillary and follicular carcinomas: a multivariate analysis.	The purpose of the study was to test the hypothesis that papillary thyroid carcinomas (PTCs) and follicular thyroid carcinomas (FTCs) appear with different ultrasound characteristics.
Faster cognitive decline in elders without dementia and decreased risk of cancer mortality: NEDICES Study.	To assess whether faster cognitive decline in elders without dementia is associated with decreased risk of cancer mortality.
The temporal dynamics of plasma fractalkine levels in ischemic stroke: association with clinical severity and outcome.	The chemokine fractalkine (CX3CL1, FKN) is involved in neural-microglial interactions and is regarded as neuroprotective according to several in vivo studies of inflammatory and degenerative states of the brain. Recently, an association with outcome in human ischemic stroke has been proposed. In this study, we aimed to investigate the temporal pattern of FKN levels in acute ischemic stroke in relation to stroke severity and outcome.
Type II error and statistical power in reports of small animal clinical trials.	To describe reporting of key methodological elements associated with type II error in published reports of small animal randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and to determine the statistical power in a subset of RCTs with negative results.
Beneficial effects of edaravone on the expression of serum matrix metalloproteinase-9 after cerebral hemorrhage.	To explore the effects of edaravone on the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) posterior to cerebral hemorrhage, and to analyze the relationship between this expression and neurological deficit.
Posttranscriptional regulatory networks: from expression profiling to integrative analysis of mRNA and microRNA data.	Protein coding RNAs are posttranscriptionally regulated by microRNAs, a class of small noncoding RNAs. Insights in messenger RNA (mRNA) and microRNA (miRNA) regulatory interactions facilitate the understanding of fine-tuning of gene expression and might allow better estimation of protein synthesis. However, in silico predictions of mRNA-microRNA interactions do not take into account the specific transcriptomic status of the biological system and are biased by false positives. One possible solution to predict rather reliable mRNA-miRNA relations in the specific biological context is to integrate real mRNA and miRNA transcriptomic data as well as in silico target predictions. This chapter addresses the workflow and methods one can apply for expression profiling and the integrative analysis of mRNA and miRNA data, as well as how to analyze and interpret results, and how to build up models of posttranscriptional regulatory networks. 
Pharmacokinetics and preliminary safety data of a single oral dose of bosentan, a dual endothelin receptor antagonist, in cats.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the pharmacokinetic properties and adverse effect profile of single-dose oral bosentan, a dual endothelin receptor antagonist, in healthy cats. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined following a single mean ± SD oral dose of 3.2 ± 0.6 mg/kg of bosentan in 6 adult cats. Blood was collected for quantification of bosentan via high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. Blood and urine were evaluated for CBC, plasma biochemical profile, and urinalysis, and repeat physical examinations were performed to evaluate for adverse effects. The mean terminal half-life of bosentan was 20.4 ± 17.2 h. The mean peak plasma concentration was 0.49 ± 0.24 g/mL, and the mean time to maximum plasma concentration was 6.8 ± 8.6 h. The area under the curve was 5.14 ± 3.81 h·μg/mL. Oral bosentan tablets were absorbed in cats, and no clinically important adverse events were noted. Further evaluation of repeat dosing, investigation into the in vivo efficacy of decreasing endothelin-1 concentrations in cats, as well as safety in conjunction with other medications is warranted.
School mobility and prospective pathways to psychotic-like symptoms in early adolescence: a prospective birth cohort study.	Social adversity and urban upbringing increase the risk of psychosis. We tested the hypothesis that these risks may be partly attributable to school mobility and examined the potential pathways linking school mobility to psychotic-like symptoms.
Sleep problems predict and are predicted by generalized anxiety/depression and oppositional defiant disorder.	We tested whether sleep problems co-occur with, precede, and/or follow common psychiatric disorders during childhood and adolescence. We also clarified the role of comorbidity and tested for specificity of associations among sleep problems and psychiatric disorders.
Statistical atlas construction via weighted functional boxplots.	Atlas-building from population data is widely used in medical imaging. However, the emphasis of atlas-building approaches is typically to estimate a spatial alignment to compute a mean/median shape or image based on population data. In this work, we focus on the statistical characterization of the population data, once spatial alignment has been achieved. We introduce and propose the use of the weighted functional boxplot. This allows the generalization of concepts such as the median, percentiles, or outliers to spaces where the data objects are functions, shapes, or images, and allows spatio-temporal atlas-building based on kernel regression. In our experiments, we demonstrate the utility of the approach to construct statistical atlases for pediatric upper airways and corpora callosa revealing their growth patterns. We also define a score system based on the pediatric airway atlas to quantitatively measure the severity of subglottic stenosis (SGS) in the airway. This scoring allows the classification of pre- and post-surgery SGS subjects and radiographically normal controls. Experimental results show the utility of atlas information to assess the effect of airway surgery in children. 
The optimal solution of a non-convex state-dependent LQR problem and its applications.	This paper studies a Non-convex State-dependent Linear Quadratic Regulator (NSLQR) problem, in which the control penalty weighting matrix [Formula: see text] in the performance index is state-dependent. A necessary and sufficient condition for the optimal solution is established with a rigorous proof by Euler-Lagrange Equation. It is found that the optimal solution of the NSLQR problem can be obtained by solving a Pseudo-Differential-Riccati-Equation (PDRE) simultaneously with the closed-loop system equation. A Comparison Theorem for the PDRE is given to facilitate solution methods for the PDRE. A linear time-variant system is employed as an example in simulation to verify the proposed optimal solution. As a non-trivial application, a goal pursuit process in psychology is modeled as a NSLQR problem and two typical goal pursuit behaviors found in human and animals are reproduced using different control weighting [Formula: see text]. It is found that these two behaviors save control energy and cause less stress over Conventional Control Behavior typified by the LQR control with a constant control weighting [Formula: see text], in situations where only the goal discrepancy at the terminal time is of concern, such as in Marathon races and target hitting missions. 
Clinical evaluation of the anterior translation of glenohumeral joint using ultrasonography: an intra- and inter-rater reliability study.	The aim of this study was to investigate the intra- and inter-rater reliability of ultrasonography (US) to measure anterior translation of the humeral head (ATHH) among healthy subjects and patients with sacroiliac joint dysfunction.
Undersampled critical branching processes on small-world and random networks fail to reproduce the statistics of spike avalanches.	The power-law size distributions obtained experimentally for neuronal avalanches are an important evidence of criticality in the brain. This evidence is supported by the fact that a critical branching process exhibits the same exponent [Formula: see text]. Models at criticality have been employed to mimic avalanche propagation and explain the statistics observed experimentally. However, a crucial aspect of neuronal recordings has been almost completely neglected in the models: undersampling. While in a typical multielectrode array hundreds of neurons are recorded, in the same area of neuronal tissue tens of thousands of neurons can be found. Here we investigate the consequences of undersampling in models with three different topologies (two-dimensional, small-world and random network) and three different dynamical regimes (subcritical, critical and supercritical). We found that undersampling modifies avalanche size distributions, extinguishing the power laws observed in critical systems. Distributions from subcritical systems are also modified, but the shape of the undersampled distributions is more similar to that of a fully sampled system. Undersampled supercritical systems can recover the general characteristics of the fully sampled version, provided that enough neurons are measured. Undersampling in two-dimensional and small-world networks leads to similar effects, while the random network is insensitive to sampling density due to the lack of a well-defined neighborhood. We conjecture that neuronal avalanches recorded from local field potentials avoid undersampling effects due to the nature of this signal, but the same does not hold for spike avalanches. We conclude that undersampled branching-process-like models in these topologies fail to reproduce the statistics of spike avalanches. 
Gram negative wound infection in hospitalised adult burn patients--systematic review and metanalysis-.	Gram negative infection is a major determinant of morbidity and survival. Traditional teaching suggests that burn wound infections in different centres are caused by differing sets of causative organisms. This study established whether Gram-negative burn wound isolates associated to clinical wound infection differ between burn centres.
HD CAGnome: a search tool for huntingtin CAG repeat length-correlated genes.	The length of the huntingtin (HTT) CAG repeat is strongly correlated with both age at onset of Huntington's disease (HD) symptoms and age at death of HD patients. Dichotomous analysis comparing HD to controls is widely used to study the effects of HTT CAG repeat expansion. However, a potentially more powerful approach is a continuous analysis strategy that takes advantage of all of the different CAG lengths, to capture effects that are expected to be critical to HD pathogenesis.
Evaluation of the CENTURY model using long-term fertilization trials under corn-wheat cropping systems in the typical croplands of China.	Soil organic matter models are widely used to study soil organic carbon (SOC) dynamics. Here, we used the CENTURY model to simulate SOC in wheat-corn cropping systems at three long-term fertilization trials. Our study indicates that CENTURY can simulate fertilization effects on SOC dynamics under different climate and soil conditions. The normalized root mean square error is less than 15% for all the treatments. Soil carbon presents various changes under different fertilization management. Treatment with straw return would enhance SOC to a relatively stable level whereas chemical fertilization affects SOC differently across the three sites. After running CENTURY over the period of 1990-2050, the SOC levels are predicted to increase from 31.8 to 52.1 Mg ha-1 across the three sites. We estimate that the carbon sequestration potential between 1990 and 2050 would be 9.4-35.7 Mg ha-1 under the current high manure application at the three sites. Analysis of SOC in each carbon pool indicates that long-term fertilization enhances the slow pool proportion but decreases the passive pool proportion. Model results suggest that change in the slow carbon pool is the major driver of the overall trends in SOC stocks under long-term fertilization. 
Education research: case logs in the assessment of medical students in the neurology outpatient clinic.	Using outpatient neurology clinic case logs completed by medical students on neurology clerkships, we examined the impact of outpatient clinical encounter volume per student on outcomes of knowledge assessed by the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) Clinical Neurology Subject Examination and clinical skills assessed by the Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE).
The importance of stimulus noise analysis for self-motion studies.	Motion simulators are widely employed in basic and applied research to study the neural mechanisms of perception and action during inertial stimulation. In these studies, uncontrolled simulator-introduced noise inevitably leads to a disparity between the reproduced motion and the trajectories meticulously designed by the experimenter, possibly resulting in undesired motion cues to the investigated system. Understanding actual simulator responses to different motion commands is therefore a crucial yet often underestimated step towards the interpretation of experimental results. In this work, we developed analysis methods based on signal processing techniques to quantify the noise in the actual motion, and its deterministic and stochastic components. Our methods allow comparisons between commanded and actual motion as well as between different actual motion profiles. A specific practical example from one of our studies is used to illustrate the methodologies and their relevance, but this does not detract from its general applicability. Analyses of the simulator's inertial recordings show direction-dependent noise and nonlinearity related to the command amplitude. The Signal-to-Noise Ratio is one order of magnitude higher for the larger motion amplitudes we tested, compared to the smaller motion amplitudes. Simulator-introduced noise is found to be primarily of deterministic nature, particularly for the stronger motion intensities. The effect of simulator noise on quantification of animal/human motion sensitivity is discussed. We conclude that accurate recording and characterization of executed simulator motion are a crucial prerequisite for the investigation of uncertainty in self-motion perception. 
Evaluation of correlations between underlying disease and port complications.	Evaluation of correlations between underlying disease and port complications.
Local convexity-preserving C2 rational cubic spline for convex data.	We present the smooth and visually pleasant display of 2D data when it is convex, which is contribution towards the improvements over existing methods. This improvement can be used to get the more accurate results. An attempt has been made in order to develop the local convexity-preserving interpolant for convex data using C(2) rational cubic spline. It involves three families of shape parameters in its representation. Data dependent sufficient constraints are imposed on single shape parameter to conserve the inherited shape feature of data. Remaining two of these shape parameters are used for the modification of convex curve to get a visually pleasing curve according to industrial demand. The scheme is tested through several numerical examples, showing that the scheme is local, computationally economical, and visually pleasing.
Study on supply and demand relation based on two stages division of market of Chinese materia medica]	The complex production processes and long industrial chain in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) market result in difficulty in Chinese market microstructure research. Based on the defining the logical relationships among different concepts. This paper divides TCM market into two stages as Chinese materia medica resource market and traditional Chinese Patent Medicines market. Under this foundation, we investigated the supply capacity, approaching rules and motivation system of suppliers in TCM market, analyzed the demand situation in the perspective of demand side, and evaluated the purchasing power in terms of population profile, income, and insurance. Furthermore we also analyzed the price formation mechanism in two stages of TCM market. We hope this study can make a positive and promotion effect on TCM market related research.
Use of visually evoked responses in evaluation of visual blurring in brain-damaged patients.	Pattern visual evoked potentials were recorded in brain-damaged patients who complained of fluctuation of vision causing visual blurring. Continuous prolonged pattern stimulation revealed marked variability of P100 amplitudes. In contrast, normal subjects and brain-damaged patients who did not complain of visual blurring showed stable P100 amplitudes. Fluctuation of vision thus seems to have an electrophysiological correlate in terms of P100 amplitude lability, which can be objectively assessed by prolonged continuous recording of pattern visual evoked potentials.
Three-dimensional contrast-enhanced sonography in the assessment of breast tumor angiogenesis: correlation with microvessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor expression.	The purpose of this study was to differentiate perfusion and vascular characteristics between benign and malignant breast lesions by 3-dimensional contrast-enhanced sonography and evaluate their correlation with microvessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression for further clinical exploration.
Effects of the common scale setting in the assessment of differential item functioning.	This study compares three methods of detecting differentialitem functioning (DIF), the equal mean difficulty (EMD), all-other-item (AOI), and constant item (CI) methods, in terms of estimation bias and rank order change of ability estimates using a series of simulations and two empirical examples. The CI method generated accurate DIF parameter estimates, whereas the EMD and AOI methods produced biased estimates. Moreover, as the percentage of DIF items in a test increased, the superiority of the CI method over the EMD and AOI methods became more apparent. The superiority of the CI method is independent of the sample size, test length, and item type (dichotomous or polytomous). Two empirical examples, a mathematics test and a hostility questionnaire, demonstrated that these three methods yielded inconsistent DIF detections and produced different ability estimate rankings.
Lung cancer stigma predicts timing of medical help-seeking behavior.	To examine relationships among demographic variables, healthcare system distrust, lung cancer stigma, smoking status, and timing of medical help-seeking behavior in individuals with symptoms suggestive of lung cancer after controlling for ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and social desirability.
Rapid changes of light microscopic indices of osteoclast-bone relationships correlated with electron microscopy.	The relationships of tibial endosteal osteoclasts to bone surfaces were quantitatively evaluated during initiation of calcium repletion in calcium-deficient rats. To do this, indices of osteoclast-bone relationships obtained by light microscopy were devised and evaluated by comparing with those obtained by electron microscopy (EM). These indices are the percent of the osteoclast width that (1) exhibits markers indicative of a ruffled border, (2) is in close contact with bone, (3) is isolated from bone by other cell types, and (4) is separated from bone by intercellular material. The indices obtained by light microscopy were strongly correlated with similar indices obtained by EM and were equally sensitive but considerably easier to obtain. The ruffled border and contact index were significantly decreased by 3 hours after beginning the meal whereas cells of other types became interposed between the osteoclasts and the bone.
The relationship between resorption depth and mean interstitial bone thickness: age-related changes in man.	The amounts of bone resorbed and formed in each bone remodelling unit are important determinants of bone mass. The mean wall thickness (MWT), which indicates the amount formed, decreases with age; less is known about changes in resorption depth although two studies have reported some evidence in favor of an age-related decrease. We have calculated mean intersitial bone thickness (MIBT), which is indirectly related to resorption depth, from measurements of MWT and mean trabecular plate thickness (MTPT) in 48 normal subjects, aged 19-80 years. No significant age-related changes in MIBT were found in either sex, or in both sexes grouped together, whereas MWT and MTPT showed a significant decrease with age (P less than 0.001 and less than 0.05 respectively). Detailed analysis of possible relationships between MIBT and resorption depth revealed that, assuming formation never exceeds resorption, a decreased MIBT may be associated with an increased, constant, or decreased resorption depth; an increased MIBT can only result from a decreased resorption depth. A constant MIBT may indicate either an unchanged or decreased resorption depth; in the former case, MTPT is unchanged whereas a decreased resorption depth is associated with a decreased MTPT. In view of the age-related reduction in MTPT, our results are therefore consistent with earlier reports of an age-related decrease in resorption depth. No evidence for an increased resorption depth during the menopause was found in this study.
Lithium treatment of depressed and nondepressed alcoholics.	We assessed the efficacy of lithium carbonate in the treatment of 457 male alcoholics in a double-blind, placebo-controlled Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study. Alcoholics either without depression or with a history of major depression, current major depression, or dysthymic disorder were studied. Two hundred eighty-six alcoholics without depression and 171 alcoholics with depression began the 52-week outpatient study; 172 alcoholics (60.1%) without depression and 108 alcoholics (63.2%) with depression completed the study. Among both all alcoholics who began the study and a subgroup who completed the study, no significant differences between alcoholics who took lithium and those who took placebo were found for the following outcome measures:number of alcoholics abstinent, number of days of drinking, number of alcohol-related hospitalizations, changes in rating of severity of alcoholism, and change in severity of depression. Similarly, no significant differences were found when only the 82 alcoholics compliant in taking lithium and the 89 alcoholics compliant in taking placebo were considered. In our study, lithium treatment did not affect the course of alcoholism in either depressed or nondepressed alcoholics.
Radiation therapy and clinical physics practices in the midwest (1982-1986).	As a part of an on-site physics review procedure, the Midwest Center for Radiological Physics (MWCRP) interviewed midwest clinical radiotherapy physicists and radiation therapists in institutions that participated in federally funded Cancer Control Programs. Information from 77 institutions was compiled regarding types of megavoltage units, daily patient load, radiotherapy personnel, treatment planning responsibilities, dosimetric practices, and treatment planning computers. Even though some practices, such as frequency of patient charge checks, were consistent throughout the midwest, other practices varied considerably such as patient load with the number of megavoltage units. This information may be useful either for planning a new facility, considering the needs for staff, or for comparing existing practices and responsibilities.
Bone mineral density and fracture in postmenopausal women.	This retrospective study examined bone mineral density (BMD) for discrimination of female patients with fractures. Bone densitometry was done in 146 patients over the age of 50 years at radius, lumbar spine, and proximal femur sites using single and dual photon absorptiometry. The patients were divided into three groups: (A) no osteoporotic fractures (n = 92); (B) mild spine fractures with greater than 15% compression (n = 38); and (C) hip fractures (n = 16). Groups B and C did not differ significantly from each other in BMD, but these groups differed significantly from group A for spine and femur BMD. No significant differences between groups were found for the radius. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis showed that the BMD of the proximal femur had the highest diagnostic sensitivity for both spine and femur fractures; the radius had the lowest overall sensitivity, and the spine was intermediate.
Accuracy of self-reported disability in patients with parkinsonism.	For the patient, the most important aspect of parkinsonism is the degree to which the disease interferes with daily living. The patient's self-report may be the only way in which such information can be obtained. Depression and cognitive impairment, however, may influence that self-report. In the present study, three ratings of disability, from the patient, a relative, and an independent observer, showed high levels of agreement. The patients' cognitive function made a small but significant contribution to the accuracy of their self-report judged against the relative's rating. Depression, however, played no role. Agreement between patients and relatives for individual items on the disability questionnaire was reasonably high. The results suggest that patients with parkinsonism can provide accurate self-report of their level of disability, even in the presence of depression and cognitive impairment.
Antacid titration in the prevention of acute gastrointestinal bleeding: a controlled, randomized trial in 100 critically ill patients.	We randomized 100 critically ill patients at risk of developing acute gastrointestinal ulceration and bleeding into two groups. One (51 patients) received antacid prophylaxis, and the other (49 patients) received no specific form of prophylaxis. Hourly antacid titration kept the pH of the gastric contents above 3.5. Two of the 51 patients who received antacid prophylaxis and gastrointestinal bleeding. Twelve of the 49 control patients bled (P less than 0.005). Of the 12 patients in the control group who bled, seven were placed on antacid medication, and all seven apparently stopped bleeding. Analysis of all the patients showed that an increasing prevalence of respiratory, failure, sepsis, peritonitis, jaundice, renal failure and hypotension was correlated with a greater frequency of bleeding. No patients required operative treatment to control bleeding. These data indicate that the occurrence of acute gastrointestinal bleeding in critically ill patients can be reduced by antacid titration.
Quality control parameters and interpretive criteria for in vitro susceptibility tests with the macrolide azithromycin. Collaborative Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing Group.	Quality control parameters for broth microdilution and disk diffusion susceptibility tests were defined and the interpretive criteria for disk diffusion tests reviewed. For interpretation of tests with 15 micrograms azithromycin disks, the following criteria are recommended: greater than or equal to 19 mm for the susceptible category (MIC less than or equal to 2.0 micrograms/ml) and less than or equal to 15 mm for the resistant category (MIC greater than or equal to 8.0 micrograms/ml). Using these criteria, there was 97% overall agreement between broth dilution and disk diffusion tests; Haemophilus influenzae isolates were susceptible to azithromycin by both methods. The quality control strain Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 gave zones of 21 to 26 mm in diameter in a six-laboratory collaborative study. In azithromycin broth microdilution tests the following MIC control limits are recommended: Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, 2.0-8.0 micrograms/ml; Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213, 0.25-1.0 micrograms/ml; and Enterococcus faecalis ATCC 29212, 1.0-4.0 micrograms/ml.
Variability in gold bead density in cells. Quantitative immunocytochemistry.	Variability in gold bead distribution between individual cells was demonstrated in both pituitary melanotrophic cells immunocytochemically reacted for ACTH and in neurohypophysial terminals reacted for oxytocin-neurophysin. Gold beads were confined to the secretory granules compartment of both tissues. Density of gold beads in melanotrophic cells reacted for ACTH varied from 100-480 gold beads/microns 2. A much narrower range of gold beads distribution (460-900 gold beads/microns 2) was observed in axons of the neurohypophysis reacted with anti-oxytocin-neurophysin. These results indicate that the labeling density varies from cell to cell (as well as axon terminals) within morphologically homogeneous populations. Thus, it may reflect certain physiological differences between cells. A suggestion is being made that mean gold bead density coefficient of variation should be calculated by comparison between individual cells.
Management of infectious waste by US hospitals.	In July 1987 and January 1988, forty-six percent (441/955) of randomly selected US hospitals responded to a questionnaire intended to identify their waste disposal practices. Survey responses were received from hospitals in 48 states. United States hospitals generated a median of 6.93 kg of hospital waste per patient per day and infectious waste made up 15% of the total hospital waste. Most hospitals (greater than 90%) considered blood, microbiology, "sharps," communicable disease isolation, pathology, autopsy, and contaminated animal carcass waste as infectious. Other sources of hospital waste that were commonly (greater than 80%) designated infectious were surgical, dialysis, and miscellaneous laboratory waste. The infectious waste was normally (80%) treated via incineration or steam sterilization before disposal, whereas noninfectious waste was discarded directly in a sanitary landfill. Eight-two percent of these US hospitals are discarding blood, microbiology, sharps, pathology, and contaminated animal carcass waste in accordance with the Centers for Disease Control's recommendations, while the compliance rate for the Environmental Protection Agency's recommendations (excluding optional waste) is 75%. No hospital could identify an infection problem (excluding needle-stick injuries) that was attributable to the disposal of infectious waste. While the management of infectious waste by US hospitals is generally consistent with the Centers for Disease Control's guidelines, many hospitals employ overly inclusive definitions of infectious waste.
Sequential patterns of eicosanoid, platelet, and neutrophil interactions in the evolution of the fulminant post-traumatic adult respiratory distress syndrome.	Thirty multiply injured blunt-trauma patients at high risk for development of ARDS (multisystem trauma including more than one organ or extremity, Injury Severity Score of 26 or more, hypotension and need for 1500 mL or more blood within the first hour after admission, and PaO2 less than or equal to 70 torr) were studied sequentially with blood and physiologic evaluations beginning immediately after injury and every eight hours for eight days, or until death, to study the evolution of the ARDS process. Mixed venous blood samples were obtained for eicosanoids PGE2, PGF2 alpha, thromboxane B2, PGI2 (6-KetoPGF1 alpha) and leukotriene B4 (LTB4). Platelet (PLAT), and neutrophil (WBC) counts were also done and plasma elastase was measured. At 7:00 AM each day patient neutrophils were obtained for a study of zymosan-activated superoxide production using a chemiluminescence assay. These data were correlated with physiologic measurements of the Respiratory Index (RI), per cent pulmonary shunt (QS/QT), and respiratory compliance measures. Seven patients developed a fulminant post-traumatic ARDS syndrome within 96 hours after injury. Twelve patients without ARDS developed sepsis (TS) four or more days after injury, and 11 had uncomplicated postinjury courses (TR). Compared to both TR and TS, ARDS had a significant (p less than 0.01) rise in neutrophil superoxide production beginning on day 2 through day 4 after injury. This was preceded by rises in PGE2 and LTB4, which were significantly correlated with subsequent falls in PLAT and WBC and rises in TXB2, PGF1, and superoxide production and followed by increases in RI, QS/QT, and a fall in compliance. The significant difference in the pattern and sequence of events in ARDS compared to TR and TS patients suggests that in ARDS the earliest event may be related to peripheral release of PGE2 and LTB4 due to platelet activation and lung sequestration with release of PGF2 alpha, and by aggregation and leukocyte adherence with release of elastase. However, fulminant ARDS mortality appears to be related to the subsequent amplification of the LTB4 leukocyte activation with superoxide production that does not achieve significance before the second day after injury and rises to a maximum by day 4 after injury. These data suggest that post-trauma ARDS follows a different evolutionary pattern than that reported in animal models and is also different from that seen in human TS or TR patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Surgery of pancreatic endocrine tumours in the German Federal Republic: results of a survey (author's transl)]	Within a ten-year scan (1967-1976) 207 insulinomas, 50 gastrinomas, 8 Verner-Morrison tumors, 5 glucagonomas and 12 endocrine pancreatic tumours with associated MEA syndrome (multiple endocrine adenomatosis) were treated surgically at various university hospitals (information obtained by questionnaire). Half of the insulinomas were treated by enucleation, one third by resection of the tail of the pancreas. Total gastrectomy was the procedure of choice in 80% of patients with gastrinoma, but sometimes pancreatic resection to remove the tumour was added. An new therapeutic concept of using histamine-H2 receptor antagonists for treating patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is discussed. In the eight patients with a Verner-Morrison syndrome removal of the tumour or distal pancreatic resection was the procedure of choice.
The familial component in longevity--a study of offspring of nonagenarians: III. Intrafamilial studies.	The effect of parental longevity on the length of survival of offspring has been examined according to selected demographic and environmental characteristics. The present study is based on 7,103 progeny, 20 years old or older. They were the sons and daughters of 1,766 men or women, 90 or more years old, who were alive in 1922-1930 at the time of ascertainment. The age at death of the other parent of the offspring is the basis of classification used in this analysis. A positive relationship was found between age at death of the non-proband parent and the age at death of the offspring. This relationship existed regardless of similarities or differences in the characteristics analyzed.
Familial correlations of longevity: an isolate-based study.	Familial correlations for age at time of death have been computed in a French Canadian isolate. We show that parent-offspring correlations as well as sib correlations are of the same order of magnitude as that between spouses for various age groups at death. It is suggested that heritability of survival is nearly zero. Observed variability in survival is interpreted as the effect of environmental differences acting upon age-dependent genes.
Contrast enhancement: diagnostic significance from a statistical viewpoint.	Contrast enhancement attenuation units were calculated from 13 tissues and organs of 20 rats at five different times after bolus 125I-diatrizoate administration. Percent distribution volume of diatrizoate was calculated from these results. The statistical significance of differences in contrast enhancement between each of 72 tissue pairs was determined at each of the five times. A similar treatment of percent distribution volume for 60 tissue pairs was determined. The time elapsed after contrast medium injection appears to be of pivotal importance in contrast enhancement diagnosis. Calculation of percent contrast distribution volume is of potential diagnostic importance, since it reveals contrast medium behavior not evident from a visual perusal of scans. The above methods can be readily adapted to computed tomography scanning.
Quantitative nuclear image analysis: differentiation between normal, hyperplastic, and malignant appearing uterine glands in a paraffin section. III. The use of texture features for differentiation.	Markov chain statistic based texture features were used to discriminate nuclei from three regions in a paraffin section of human endometrium. The data of the digitized nuclei from which the texture features were calculated were the same as described previously (Baak and Diegenbach, 1977; Diegenbach and Baak, 1977). Several texture features proved to give a good separation between two of the three groups of nuclei. Combining two or more features can make a separation of all three groups possible. Most of the features are correlated, indicating that fewer than the 20 features used are needed for discrimination. The results are much better than with the features described in the previous articles.
Quantitative nuclear image analysis: differentiation between normal, hyperplastic, and malignant appearing uterine glands in a paraffin section. IV. The use of Markov chain texture features in discriminant analysis.	Discriminant analysis was applied to Markov chain texture features and elementary features calculated from data from microscope photometry of nuclei in a paraffin section. The results from measurements on the nuclei of morphologically normal, atypical hyperplastic and carcinomatous uterine glands were used in discriminant analysis. With this technique it is possible to classify up to 88.1% of the nuclei correctly in one of the three groups of uterine glands. The discriminating power of several smaller subsets indicated that with more than 28 features there is hardly any increase in discriminating power. Discriminant analysis with a selection from elementary and Markov chain features provides objective criteria of assistance in histopathological diagnosis.
Statistical analysis of white blood cell data directed to the detection of malignancy in untreated patients.	A training set of 90 malignant cases (positives) and 61 non-malignant cases (negatives) was used to determine statistics for five parameters based on white blood cell analysis. The statistics used were thresholds, differences between the positive and negative means, and the weighted correlation matrix. Three decision methods using these statistics were then applied to a test set of 90 positives and 60 negatives. The percentage of correct decisions ranged from 98.67 per cent for parameter 3. The best result using only parameters capable of recognition by an automated apparatus was 94.00 per cent.
Spreading of cells on various substrates evaluated by Fourier analysis of shape.	In order to evaluate in mathematical terms the morphological changes occurring in the course of cell spreading, Fourier analysis of shape was applied. Human urothelial Hu 961 b cells plated on type IV collagen, fibronectin, laminin, glass and bovine serum albumin (BSA) were studied. Fourier parameters describing cell shape as well as surface areas covered by the cells on the substrate were subjected to statistical analysis. Using analysis of variance and discriminant analysis it was found that parameters describing cell shape (both gross shape of cells and their fine scale contour foldings) possessed a higher power of discrimination between the cells spread on various substrates than the differences in cell surface areas. In the course of observation (75 and 150 min) the highest number of attached cells and highest degree of spreading were found when cells were plated on type IV collagen. Moderate alterations in cell shape and moderate increase of surface area were seen in the group of cells seeded on fibronectin, whereas the cells plated on laminin, glass and BSA revealed a moderate increase of surface area, but no changes in their shape were observed. The differences in attachment of cells and in the degree of their spreading might be due to the variation in expression of plasma membrane receptors for various substrates. The Fourier analysis of cell shape coupled with measurement of surface area is a good tool for quantitative evaluation of cell spreading and can be used for discrimination between cells spread on different substrates.
Measuring treatment and scale bias effects by linear regression in the analysis of OHI-S scores.	A linear regression model is presented for estimating unbiased treatment effects from OHI-S scores. An example is given to illustrate an analysis and to compare results of an unbiased regression estimator with those based on a biased simple difference estimator.
Functional and psychosocial effects of multimodality limb-sparing therapy in patients with soft tissue sarcomas.	We have documented functional and psychosocial changes in patients with extremity soft tissue sarcomas who have undergone multimodality limb-sparing treatments. In 88 patients, parameters related to economic status, sexual activity, pain, limb function, and global quality of life (QOL) were recorded prior to surgery and every 6 months postoperatively. Changes from the preoperative assessment for every parameter were analyzed in each patient. Six months after surgery, there was a decrease in employment status, sexual activity, and in limb function in a significant number of patients. At 12 months, these decreases were still evident. Despite these changes, global QOL measured by a standardized test showed at least some improvement in a significant proportion of patients at 12 months. These findings highlight the difficulty in defining QOL. It could not be ascertained if radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy were causative factors in specific changes because of the small numbers of patients in each subgroup. However, among 60 patients with high-grade sarcomas, significant wound problems developed in 10 of 33 who received postoperative radiation therapy in combination with adjuvant doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy compared with one of 27 patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy alone (P = .016). Also, among high-grade sarcoma patients with 12-month follow-up, six of 19 patients who received radiation therapy and chemotherapy developed joint contractures compared with zero of 15 patients who received chemotherapy alone (P less than .04). The combination of postoperative radiation therapy and chemotherapy appeared to be associated with significantly more tissue-related injury in patients with high-grade sarcomas compared with chemotherapy alone.
Numerical synthesis of statistical data]	The paper describes the methods currently used for numerical synthesis of statistical data. A review is made of the main properties of the various statistical indices required to describe the central tendency, dispersion and shape of distribution of values. Mode, median, arithmetic mean, harmonic and geometric mean, range, quantiles and standard deviation, asymmetry and kurtosis indices are described and discussed using data drawn from practical experience. Special attention is paid to the errors most frequently incurred using these methods. An appendix supplies details of some of the mathematical properties of the operators described.
Adjuvant chemotherapy with fluorouracil and CCNU in colon cancer. Results of a multicentric randomized study.	To establish the effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with colon cancer after radical surgery, from 1980 to December 1983, 263 patients were randomized in a multicentric study to no further treatment (131 patients) or to a combination of fluorouracil (5-FU) (400 mg/m2 i.v., days 1-5) and lomustine (CCNU) (100 mg/m2 per os on day 5) every 6 weeks for 9 cycles (132 patients). The two groups were well balanced for age, sex, histology, tumor and nodal extent. Chemotherapy was not given to 30 of the 132 randomized patients, and of 98 treated patients only 38 completed the entire protocol. Analysis, as intention to treat, at 54 months did not show any significant difference between the two treatment groups in terms of relapse-free survival (surgery alone, 74.5%; surgery + adjuvant chemotherapy, 70.9%; p = 0.91). In contrast, a significant difference was observed in overall survival (surgery alone, 78.8%; surgery + adjuvant chemotherapy, 60.8%; p = 0.04). The sites of relapse were identical in the two treatment arms. In conclusion, from this study it appears that adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-FU and CCNU seems to have no efficacy in the cure rate of colon cancer patients.
A Canadian multicenter study with Zaditen (ketotifen) in the treatment of bronchial asthma in children aged 5 to 17 years.	One hundred thirty-eight children with chronic asthma, requiring daily treatment with bronchodilators, took part in a 7-month, double-blind, multicenter clinical study. Patients were randomized into two groups, and after a 1-month baseline, were administered Zaditen (ketotifen), 1.0 mg twice daily, or an identical placebo for a period of 6 months. After 10 weeks of receiving the study medication, bronchodilator use was reduced or stopped. In the Zaditen-treated group, 60% of the children taking theophylline were able to stop its use completely, compared to 34% of the patients taking placebo (p less than 0.05). Of the patients who were unable to stop taking theophylline, the Zaditen-and placebo-treated groups recorded average dosage reductions of 62% and 26%, respectively. These differences were statistically significant (p less than 0.05). Thus, a high percentage of patients in the placebo-treated group maintained asthma symptom control with theophylline, whereas most of the Zaditen-treated patients could stop using this medication. Although pulmonary function readings improved in both groups, those patients taking Zaditen demonstrated earlier improvement and greater changes from baseline. Significant differences (p less than 0.05) in favor of Zaditen were found for reduction of concomitant medications, patient's global evaluation, physician's clinical evaluations, incidence of emergency room visits for asthma, and upper respiratory tract infections. No unexpected side effects were observed. It is concluded that Zaditen is an effective medication for long-term control of asthma in children.
Temporomandibular joint, statistical study (comparative sagittal tomography) of the relationship between the surfaces of the glenoid cavity and the condyle and condylar displacement during maximal opening]	266 sagittal tomographs corresponding to the left and right temporo-mandibular joints of 133 patients were divided into 7 groups according to the absence or presence of functional disturbances or of organic lesions. The statistical analysis of the values obtained from a "triangular study" of the surface of the glenoid fossa and of the mandibular condyle showed the following: - the average surface area of the glenoid fossa does not significantly differ from one to the other of the 7 groups examined - the average surface of the mandibular condyle did not significantly vary between groups - in no group studied, except the F/P group (function disturbances/small displacement), was there any relationship between the surface of the glenoid fossa and that of the condyle. It can, however, be stated that the relationship between the surface of the glenoid fossa and the mandibular condyle would seem to play a role in the degree of displacement of the condyle during full opening of the mouth.
A ranking scale of the susceptibility to loss of various types of teeth as an additional aid to the decision for the extraction of permanent teeth in orthodontic treatments]	A statistically established rank scale of the predisposition to decay of the different types of teeth permits to evaluate more exactly the sacrifice of masticatory units in orthodontically indicated tooth extraction. Thus, in case of doubt, it gives additional advice on the choice of the teeth to be removed.
Orthodontic studies in children with stunted growth]	Biometrical studies on a group of 43 children with stunted growth showed that stunted growth is associated with smaller dimensions of the upper dental arch. The lower dental arch is not involved. The relationship between the variations in the characteristics under examination are explained with the aid of three basic factors of growth which had been established mathematically. The crown diameters of the permanent teeth are not smaller as in children with normal growth.
Variability in muscle fibre areas in whole human quadriceps muscle: how to reduce sampling errors in biopsy techniques.	A single biopsy is a poor estimator of the muscle fibre cross-sectional area (CSA) for a whole human muscle because of the large variability in the fibre area within a muscle. To determine how the sampling errors in biopsy techniques can be reduced, data on the CSA of type 1 and type 2 fibres obtained from cross-sections of whole vastus lateralis muscle of young men, have been analysed statistically. To obtain a good estimate of the mean fibre CSA in a biopsy, measuring all fibres in that biopsy gives the best result. To obtain a good estimate of the mean fibre CSA for a whole muscle, the number of biopsies has a much greater influence on the sampling error than the number of fibres measured in each biopsy, but the number of biopsies needed to obtain a given sampling error can vary by a factor of two. If the fibre CSA in three or more biopsies is measured, it is sufficient to measure only 25 fibres in each biopsy. If less than three biopsies are taken, there is no worthwhile reduction in sampling error when more than 100 fibres are measured. To determine the mean fibre CSA for a whole group of individuals, our preference is to maximize the number of individuals, and only take single biopsies. In conclusion, to determine the mean fibre CSA for this particular muscle with a certain precision, we suggest analysis of three biopsies, taken from different depths of the muscle, and measurement of 25 fibres in each biopsy.
Impact of race on treatment response and cardiovascular disease among hypertensives.	To determine the effect of race on cardiovascular disease occurrence among treated hypertensive patients, the experience of 1,807 black and 2,962 white hypertensive patients who entered a union/management--sponsored, worksite-based treatment program (1973-1985), was evaluated. Participants had similar socioeconomic profiles, equal access to health benefits, and received standard treatment. Median duration of observation was 42 months. Blacks had 48, and whites 129, of the 177 morbid (strokes and heart attacks) or mortal cardiovascular disease outcomes. At baseline, blacks had more electrocardiographic abnormalities (32% vs. 19%, p less than 0.0001), lower mean cholesterol (218 vs. 230 mg%, p less than 0.001), smoked more (35% vs. 30%, p less than 0.001), and were less likely to be treated for hypertension before entering the program (53% vs. 58%, p less than 0.01) than whites. They were also more likely than whites to belong to unions employing less skilled workers (p less than 0.0001). Overall, all-cause mortality rates between the races were similar. However, total cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality rates were 10.5 (whites) and 6.4 (blacks) per 1,000 person years (p less than 0.005); the difference was largely explained by higher myocardial infarction rates among older (55 years or older) white men (15.6 vs. 7.5, p less than 0.05). That advantage was not present amongst younger black persons. In fact, blacks lost more years of life before age 65 (102 vs. 64 years/1,000 persons, p less than 0.025).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Calculation of power for matched pair studies when randomization is by group.	A formula is given for the calculation of the statistical power of paired intervention trials in which the units of randomization are groups rather than individuals. Factors affecting the power of such trials are also investigated and an example is given where the power of group randomization is compared to that of individual randomization.
Estimating parameters of growth curves of bulls.	Parameters were estimated for nonlinear growth curves for bulls of five straightbred and 20 crossbred breed-types produced in two generations of a diallel. The primary intent of this study was to use the estimates obtained for mature size and maturing rate to define male growth in manner that would be appropriate for use in the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station (TAES) Beef Cattle Simulation Model. The results that were obtained from the nonlinear regressions made on the male growth data indicated that the relation between the mature sizes of males and females of the same breed-type is consistent with the assumption for that relation contained in the model (a ratio of 1.5). However, the inverse relationship between mature size and maturing rate that is assumed in the model was not consistent with the results of the present study. That contradiction presumably arose due to the different environment imposed on the males relative to their female counterparts. This condition prohibits direct application of the results of this study because live weights cannot be directly related to the principal growth curve contained in the model. However, such a relationship can be developed when information regarding the composition of bulls considered in this study becomes available.
High-dose cytarabine and daunorubicin as consolidation therapy for acute myeloid leukemia in first remission: long-term follow-up and results.	In an effort to increase the proportion of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remaining in continued complete remission (CCR), we administered intensive postremission consolidation therapy with high-dose cytarabine (Ara-C) and daunorubicin. Eighty-seven patients, with a median age of 38 years (range, 7 to 71), received consolidation therapy after first complete remission was obtained with standard induction chemotherapy that included conventional doses of Ara-C. Consolidation therapy consisted of from one to three cycles of high-dose Ara-C (3 g/m2 intravenously [IV] over 1 hour every 12 hours for 12 doses) followed by daunorubicin (30 mg/m2/d IV bolus for 3 days). After completion of the high-dose Ara-C and daunorubicin, no further therapy was administered. Myelosuppression encountered with consolidation resulted in a median duration of neutropenia and thrombocytopenia of 3 weeks. Four patients (5%) died during consolidation due to infection and/or hemorrhage; 59% of patients experienced severe but nonfatal infectious or extramedullary organ toxicity. With a median follow-up of more than 3.5 years from diagnosis, the proportion of patients, by Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimate, remaining in CCR is 49% (95% confidence limits, 37% to 61%). In a Cox multivariate analysis, only age significantly (P less than .001) influenced the probability of remaining in CCR. The probability of remaining in CCR was 83%, 50%, and 23% for age groups of 25 or less, 26 to 45, and more than 45 years, respectively. These survival curves all have stable long-term plateaus, suggesting cure. In this study, the administration of brief, intensive nonmarrow ablative chemotherapy resulted in a large proportion of patients with AML remaining in CCR, results similar to those reported with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Relapse of acute leukemia was still the major reason for therapy failure, suggesting that more effective or additional postremission therapy will be required to further improve the likelihood of cure especially for older patients.
A comparative study of the nodular and diffuse variants of lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin's disease.	A clinical comparison of the nodular and diffuse variants of lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin's disease (HD-LP) has shown them to be similar in all respects, including survival and relapse-free survival (RFS). In addition, they appear similar to mixed cellularity (MC) and nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease (HD-NS) with regard to clinical course. Thus, the reported phenotypic differences between nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's disease (HD-LP[N]) and other forms of the disease do not appear to be reflected in clinical behavior.
Bifurcation analysis of nonlinear retinal horizontal cell models. I. Properties of isolated cells.	1. Bifurcation theory is used to study properties of nonlinear analytical and computational models of isolated retinal horizontal cells. The analytical model is based on the published data of Shingai and Christensen describing steady-state I-V characteristics of horizontal cells isolated from catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) retina. The computational model is based on I-V characteristics of distinct macroscopic membrane currents observed in horizontal cells isolated from goldfish (Carassius auratus) retina. Slow-model dynamics are analyzed assuming that excitatory processes occur rapidly with respect to the time course of inactivation of the inward Ca2+ and outward K+ currents. 2. A global bifurcation diagram plotting the location and stability properties of critical points as a function of photoreceptor-evoked horizontal-cell postsynaptic membrane conductance Gsyn is derived for the analytical model. The automated bifurcation analysis software AUTO is used to compute global bifurcation diagrams for the computational model. Bifurcation diagrams exhibit a bistable regime at small Gsyn values characterized by two stable and one unstable critical point and a monostable regime at larger Gsyn values characterized by a single globally attracting stable critical point. The transition between bistable and monostable behavior occurs at a Gsyn value of roughly 0.9 nS for the computational model and 1.7 nS for the analytical model. Estimates of horizontal-cell glutamate-channel conductance suggest that this transition corresponds to the activation of as few as 400-700 glutamate channels. Dark-evoked release of neurotransmitter from photoreceptors may therefore set horizontal-cell synaptic conductance Gsyn to a value within the monostable regime. 3. Photoreceptor-evoked horizontal-cell membrane conductance, total Ca2+ channel conductance, and inactivation of the inward Ca2+ current are shown to be the major factors controlling the bifurcation structure of the computational model. Inactivation of the inward Ca2+ current is required to account for the dark resting potential of horizontal cells as well as light-evoked hyperpolarizing responses. Inactivation of the outward K+ current has little effect on model properties. 4. Isolated horizontal cells generate Ca2+ action potentials whereas cells in the intact retina normally do not. Simple procedures for modeling the slow dynamics of isolated horizontal-cell Ca2+ action potentials are described.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Optimizing sampling designs for volume measurements of components of human brain using a stereological method.	Measurements of the cerebral cortical volume used to be very laborious, due to the 3-D complexity of the gyral pattern. Using stereological methods, which allow the quantification of 3-D structures from measurements on 2-D cross-sections, the difficulties have been overcome. In thirty formalin-fixed normal human brains the total volumes were measured by saline displacement. The brains were serially sliced in coronal sections and the fractional areas of the cortex, white matter, central grey structures and ventricles were determined by point-counting. Using Cavaliéri's principle the volumes of these structures were calculated. The average cortical fixed volume was 549 ml (SD +/- 107) corresponding to 54% of the total volume of the hemispheres. The coefficient of error of the cortical volume determinations was 2.6%. The efficiency of the design and the possibilities for optimizing the design are discussed. This point-counting method was preferred to the use of an automatic image analyser, being precise, easy to handle and not interfering with further tissue processing for histological preparation.
Prospective study of oral contraceptive use and risk of breast cancer in women.	In 1976, 118,273 female nurses 30-55 years of age with no history of cancer completed a questionnaire regarding possible risk factors. By 1986, after 1,137,415 person-years of follow-up, we had documented 1,799 newly diagnosed cases of breast cancer. Compared with the risk of breast cancer for nonusers of oral contraceptives, the multivariate relative risks were 1.07 (95% confidence interval, 0.97-1.19) for all users, 1.06 (95% confidence interval, 0.96-1.18) for past users, and 1.53 (95% confidence interval, 1.06-2.19) for current users--women who used oral contraceptives up to 2 years before diagnosis of breast cancer. We conclude that overall past use of oral contraceptives is not associated with a substantial increase in the risk of breast cancer. Although we did not find women who used oral contraceptives before the first pregnancy to have an increased risk of breast cancer, the number of women who used oral contraceptives for a long duration in early reproductive life was too small to permit firm conclusions regarding the risk in this subgroup.
Nerve fibre morphometry: a comparison of techniques.	This study compared different approaches to measuring nerve axon and fibre diameters and areas from transverse sections. A mock photomicrograph and mock tissue section, each with 100 identical, circular 'fibres' was constructed. Three measurement protocols were investigated: (A) circular approximation from minimum diameter; (B) circular approximation from the mean of orthogonal diameters; and (C) calculation of diameter and area from a digitized circumference. For each protocol, all 100 fibres on the photomicrograph were repeatedly measured using a digitizing tablet. Similarly, the fibres on the mock tissue section were measured using a digitizing tablet and microscope with camera lucida. The variance for these data was calculated. Protocols were compared on the basis of variability and the amount of digitizing time required. For diameter measurements, protocol B showed significantly lower variability than A or C (P less than 0.05), with only a modest increase in digitizing time over A. For area measurements, protocols B and C showed significantly lower variability than A (P less than 0.05), again with a modest increase in digitizing time. Measurements made using the microscope and camera lucida showed significantly lower variability than those made from the photomicrograph, but took more time. These data suggest that for diameter measurements, a mean of orthogonal diameters approach is best, and that for area measurements, a traced circumference approach is best as it is more flexible than the orthogonal diameter approach. While the microscope and camera lucida setup is more time-consuming to use, it eliminates the need for photomicrograph production.
A novel spectrophotometric assay for lipase activity utilizing cis-parinaric acid.	A new spectrophotometric assay for determining the activity of acylglycerol hydrolases (lipases, E.C. 3.1.1.3) was developed and optimized for yeast lipase (Candida cylindracea). Studies with porcine pancreatic lipase were also conducted and the influence of various detergents and divalent cations on the assay was evaluated. The assay uses cis-parinaric acid (PnA), a naturally occurring fatty acid that has unique spectroscopic properties, and takes advantage of the reversible binding of fatty acids to bovine serum albumin (BSA). Free PnA has an ultraviolet absorption peak at 321.2 nm. When PnA is bound to BSA, however, the peak shifts to 324.2 nm. The assay mixture contains 6 microM PnA, 1 microM BSA, 75 microM triolein, and 0.3 mM taurocholate in a 50 mM tris-HCl buffer with 1 microM EDTA. The release of oleic acid from triolein is monitored over time by measuring the ratio of optical densities (OD) at 319.0 and 329.0 nm. Initially, there is maximum binding of PnA to BSA, and the OD ratio is approximately 1.0. Upon addition of lipase, PnA is displaced from the BSA by oleic acid released from triolein, and the OD ratio increases to a maximum of about 1.8. However, when calcium is present in the reaction mixture an insoluble calcium-PnA complex forms, resulting in a progressive decrease in OD at both 319.0 and 329.0 nm. The kinetic assay described here is simple, rapid, sensitive, reproducible, inexpensive, and it can be adapted to measure the activity of a variety of calcium-independent lipases. Under similar assay conditions, activities for Candida cylindracea lipase obtained with this assay are similar to those obtained with 14C-labelled triolein.
Maximum likelihood analysis of free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) data.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) methodology is widely used in evaluating medical imaging modalities. While appropriate in some cases, it has several drawbacks when the detection task, e.g., nodule detection, involves localizing the abnormality. Free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) methodology offers a more natural framework to describe observer performance in such studies and has other advantages. Due to the lack of a statistical analysis procedure comparable to the maximum likelihood procedure (ROCFIT program) available for ROC studies, the FROC method has not gained widespread acceptance. This work presents and solves a two parameter model for the statistical analysis of FROC data. The model assumes that the probability density of the signal stimuli is normally distributed, as is the probability density for producing one or more false positives per image. A program (FROCFIT) is described for estimating the parameters and their uncertainties from experimental data. An index of performance is proposed to quantify observer performance in FROC experiments. Application of this methodology to several FROC data sets produced good to excellent fits.
A multivariate analysis of prognostic factors in adult Hodgkin's disease.	A multivariate analysis of the prognostic factors was carried out with a Cox model on 167 patients with Stage I-IV Hodgkin's disease. The following indicators were prospectively registered: Sex, age, clinical stage, systemic symptoms, histological type, number of involved areas, nodal size, mediastinal thoracic ratio (MTR), localization of mediastinal involvement according to the aortic arcus, hilar involvement, extent of radiotherapy, and extent and mode of chemotherapy. A linear logistic analysis showed that most of the indicators were interrelated. This emphasizes the necessity of a multivariate analysis in order to assess the independent influence of each of them. The three main prognostic indicators for complete remission achievement were age, clinical stage and involvement of lung hili. The three main prognostic indicators for disease-free survival were sex, size of mediastinal involvement (MTR) and use of alternating chemotherapy COPP/ABVD in the initial treatment strategy. The most important prognostic factor for survival was clinical stage followed by hilar involvement, age, and nodal size. The coefficients estimated by Cox regression analysis can be used to combine the important prognostic factors into a single index for each patient at presentation. The prognostic index for each patient would allow the identification of cases with poor prognosis who might benefit from additional initial treatment.
Attentional mechanisms during the intracarotid amobarbital test.	We investigated the integrity of attentional mechanisms following unilateral intracarotid amobarbital injection in 23 patients undergoing preoperative evaluation for epilepsy surgery. Performance for ipsilateral hand-button response to a quasi-random strobe flash was markedly altered following unilateral amobarbital injection as evidenced by decreased correct responses and increased perseverative errors. The increase in perseverations was inversely correlated with subsequent memory performance. The results indicate that unilateral amobarbital injection commonly produces a marked reduction in attention as well as disturbances in strategic control mechanisms.
Data-reduction problems in biopharmaceutics and pharmacokinetics.	The importance of the use of appropriate biostatistical methods is stressed. In this article some problems and common errors in the data-reduction methods applied in biopharmaceutical and pharmacokinetic research are discussed. A commonly used representation of a set of concentration-time curves is the so-called 'mean curve', a curve through the arithmetic means of concentrations at discrete time points. If individual curves are compared with the 'mean curve' it appears that important characteristics have disappeared while other, incorrect, characteristics have been created. Unreliable conclusions may result from this procedure. Rather every single concentration-time curve should be fitted by appropriate regression methods and the resulting parameters be considered as multiple characteristics of individual pharmacokinetic behaviour. In a second data-analysis step these parameters may be clustered into more or less homogeneous subgroups, which subsequently may be represented by a representative curve. Standard errors of the mean and confidence intervals based on standard errors of the mean instead of the standard deviation are often misused as dispersion measures to characterize the sample or population distribution. Standard errors of the mean and confidence intervals measure the precision of the mean of a sample and are sensitive to the sample size. Vertical bars (in curves) representing standard deviation, standard errors of the mean or confidence intervals suggest symmetrical distributions, but this is sometimes not justified. Deviations from normality appear to occur often. A simple graphical method to indicate the dispersion of non-normal sets is presented. Methods for the determination of confidence intervals for normal and non-normal distributions are discussed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Statistical analysis of data on airborne asbestos levels collected in an EPA survey of public buildings.	Data from a recent EPA study of airborne asbestos levels in 49 buildings occupied by the General Services Administration (GSA) are statistically analyzed. The study focuses on differences between indoor and outdoor levels, and on differences among buildings with no asbestos-containing material (ACM) (6 buildings), buildings with ACM generally in good condition (6 buildings), and buildings containing damaged ACM (37 buildings). Seven indoor samples and a single outdoor sample were collected from most buildings and analyzed by TEM (transmission electron microscopy) using a direct preparation method. No statistically significant differences were detected in asbestos levels between indoors and outdoors or among the three categories of buildings. The average indoor concentration of asbestos was 0.00073 fibers/cc (f/cc) for all fibers and 0.00007 f/cc for fibers 5 microns or longer. The current OSHA occupational standard is 0.2 f/cc for fibers 5 microns or longer as measured by phase-contrast microscopy.
Sample sizes for constructing confidence intervals and testing hypotheses.	Although estimation and confidence intervals have become popular alternatives to hypothesis testing and p-values, statisticians usually determine sample sizes for randomized clinical trials by controlling the power of a statistical test at an appropriate alternative, even those statisticians who recommend the use of confidence intervals for inference. There is merit in achieving consistency in the techniques for data analysis and sample size determination. To that end, this paper compares sample size determination with use of the length of the confidence interval with that obtained by control of power.
Test for batch-to-batch variation in stability analysis.	We propose several statistical tests for batch-to-batch variation in the stability analysis of a drug product and present applications with data from new drug application stability and marketing stability analyses.
The impact of the physical environment on the psychological well-being of office workers.	This paper examines the relationship between the physical office environment and the psychological well-being of office workers. The results indicate that adverse environmental conditions, especially poor air quality, noise, ergonomic conditions, and lack of privacy, may effect worker satisfaction and mental health. The data also provide substantial evidence that worker assessments of the physical environment are distinct from their assessments of general working conditions, such as work load, decision-making latitude and relationships with other people at work. Stated another way, people who reported problems with the physical environment could not simply be characterized as dissatisfied workers exhibiting a tendency to 'complain' about every aspect of their working conditions. Taken together, these findings lend support to the position that the stress people experience at work may be due to a combination of factors, including the physical conditions under which they labor. Both theoretical and practical considerations arise from these data, including the need for work site based health promotion and stress reduction programs to consider both the physical and psychological design of jobs.
Professional life cycle changes and their effect on knowledge level of dental practitioners.	Utilizing a national data set (U.S.A.), the effect of age and age-related professional characteristics on dentists' knowledge with regard to prevention of infective endocarditis was examined. The following research questions were addressed: (1) Do age-related characteristics produce different effects on knowledge level at various stages of professional careers?; (2) What are the key changes in these age-related characteristics and what processes are suggested by these changes? Multiple regression analysis assessed the influence of potential predictors of variation in knowledge level with regard to prevention of infective endocarditis for the entire sample. Using these findings as a guide, variation in the effect of significant predictor variables was then analyzed for three time segments of approximately equal duration: early professional life less than 40, mid-professional life 40-54, and older professional life 55 or greater than. Age had a profoundly negative effect on knowledge level, i.e. the level progressively declines as clinicians grow older. The impact of the age-related characteristics on knowledge level of infective endocarditis prevention also varied according to the stage of the professional life cycle. Indices measuring the size or extent of theoretical understanding, in-office networks, institutional affiliations, and consulting networks were significant predictors of endocarditis prevention knowledge for younger clinicians. For those 40-54, only practice organization (office business and staff size and diversity) was a significant predictor, while for older clinicians theoretical understanding was the only significant predictor. Differences in the mean levels of these predictor (independent) variables across age groups were also examined via ANOVA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Persistent generalized lymphadenopathy syndrome vs "AIDS"--unrelated malignant lymphoma: comparison of presenting clinical and laboratory findings in 88 patients. AIDS and Related Syndromes Study Group.	The purpose of this report is to document and compare the presenting clinical and laboratory findings of 38 patients, all intravenous drug abusers, with pathologically documented persistent generalized lymphadenopathy (PGL), and of 50 patients with AIDS-unrelated malignant lymphoma (30 with Hodgkin's disease and 20 with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma). All patients, aged 40 years or less, consecutively seen since May 1984 in a single institution in Italy, have prospectively undergone a similar clinico-pathologic approach. In addition to a history of intravenous drug abuse and HIV serology, the results indicate that a history of infection in the previous year, night sweats, weight loss, generalized lymphadenopathy, beta 2 microglobuline, transaminase, T4/T8 ratio less than 1, and polyclonal hypergamma-globulinemia significantly increased among PGL patients compared with patients with AIDS-unrelated malignant lymphoma. In contrast, patients with malignant lymphoma had a significant increase in mediastinal lymph nodes, sedimentation rate, LDH, fibrinogen and anemia. Therefore, at this time of an AIDS epidemic, after histologic diagnosis of reactive lymphadenopathy has been performed in young patients presenting with generalized lymphadenopathy, a request for a second biopsy and other invasive procedures may be avoided if clinical and laboratory data suggest a PGL syndrome. If not already performed, HIV antibody detection should be carried out in this setting.
Fine needle aspiration cytology and breast cancer diagnosis.	The authors report on 315 histologically confirmed consecutive breast cancer (BC) cases undergoing fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC). Inadequate smears were infrequent (7%), particularly when reaspiration of inadequate cases was employed (1-2%). FNAC suspected BC in 81% of the total or 88% of adequate smears. Univariate and multivariate (Cox's model) analyses showed no correlation between inadequacy or suspect/positive FNAC rate and patient age, T category or histologic type. Differences in the inadequacy and suspect/positive rate were recorded among 30 operators (surgeons, oncologists, radiologists) performing the sampling, but the average results were consistent with literature reports. FNAC was found to be a useful diagnostic tool for BC diagnosis, and proper training of the highest number of operators is recommended to allow the widest diffusion of this diagnostic technique.
Determination of the required volume of a sampling population in scientific and practical research]	Three stages in the determination of the sampling population volume are described. The significance of a correct definition of the confidence interval is stressed, as well as the adjustment of the calculated values of the sampling population volume during the investigation.
Type A behavior and survival: a follow-up study of 1,467 patients with coronary artery disease.	Patients with documented coronary artery disease, admitted to Duke Medical Center between 1974 and 1980, were assessed for type A behavior pattern and were followed until 1984. The relation of type A behavior to survival was tested using data from coronary angiography to control for disease severity. Cox model regression analyses demonstrated an interaction (p less than 0.01) between type A behavior and an index of disease severity in the prediction of cardiovascular death. Among those with relatively poor left ventricular function, type A patients had better survival than type B. This difference was not present among patients with better prognoses. Type A behavior did not predict the subsequent incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarctions. Differential risk modification and differential selection into postinfarction status are possible explanations for the findings. These results need not conflict with the proposition that type A behavior plays a role in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease.
Correlation between histomorphometric findings on endomyocardial biopsy and clinical findings in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.	Multivariate analysis was used to analyze the morphometric data of endomyocardial biopsies (area, perimeter and minor diameter) of myocardial cells obtained at light microscopy by a computerized approach with 16 clinical parameters and prognosis in 52 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The best morphometric parameter was "area" (R2 = 0.47). A positive correlation was found with age (p less than 0.02), interval between first symptoms and diagnosis (p less than 0.02), left ventricular end-diastolic volume (p less than 0.02), cardiac index (p less than 0.05) and echocardiographic end-diastolic diameter (p less than 0.1). A negative correlation was found with prognosis (p less than 0.02), ejection fraction (p less than 0.02), shortening fraction (p less than 0.05), echocardiographic end-systolic diameter (p less than 0.06) and mitral regurgitation presence (p less than 0.1). The parameters that provided no correlation were New York Heart Association class, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, right atrial pressure, cardiothoracic ratio, presence or absence of heart failure, fever or alcohol intake. These findings suggest that endomyocardial biopsy may provide prognostic information and confirm clinical diagnosis.
Estimating intervention effects in longitudinal studies.	Longitudinal studies aimed at assessing the impact of interventions on disease risk factors often confront several statistical problems. These problems include 1) dependent variables measured by ordered categories, 2) numerous potentially relevant patterns of transition between outcome levels, 3) mixed units of analysis (e.g., assignment by social unit while theorizing in terms of individuals), 4) incomplete randomization, and 5) correlated estimates for successive occasions of longitudinal measurement. Longitudinal data on use of cigarettes, alcohol, and marijuana among adolescents (n = 1,244, complete data) from the Midwestern Prevention Project are used to demonstrate solutions to each of these problems: 1) a proportional odds regression model, 2) conditional logistic models of transitions with interactions between baseline level and intervention effect, 3) a logistic model estimated with linear regression methods on measures aggregated by social unit, 4) conditional and unconditional models of effect magnitude, and 5) a repeated measures logistic regression technique. Panel data fit to the various models yielded the following conclusions concerning intervention effects in the Midwestern Prevention Project: reduction in the prevalence of cigarette users in treatment schools compared with control schools (8% vs. 18% smoked in the last week at one year follow-up), mixed evidence of an effect on marijuana use, and no evidence of an effect on alcohol use.
Pitfalls in statistical analysis of heart valve prostheses.	Beware of the dangers of automated analysis, especially in multiple regression, and of overinterpretation of data. Do not let yourself be manipulated by numbers.
Seasonal variation of multiple sclerosis exacerbations in North Dakota.	A prospective study of the relationship between exacerbations and season in 336 patients with clinically definite multiple sclerosis showed a significant monthly variation as well as a seasonal pattern of exacerbations. The data obtained are compared with earlier studies that have used varying methodologies. The results continue to support the hypothesis that undefined environmental factors influence the course of multiple sclerosis.
Lumbar spinal canal size of sciatica patients.	Seven measures at the three lowest lumbar interspaces were recorded from conventional radiographs of the lumbar spines of 160 consecutive patients with low back pain and sciatica admitted for myelography and possible surgery. Eighty-eight patients were operated upon for disc herniation, and of the conservatively-treated 72 patients, 18 had a pathologic and 54 a normal myelogram. The results were evaluated after one year using the occupational handicap scales of WHO. Correlations of radiographic measures to stature were moderate and to age small. After adjusting for stature and age, only the male interpedicular distances and the antero-posterior diameter of intervertebral foramen at L3 were greater than those of females. The males with a pathologic myelogram had smaller posterior disc height at L3 and a smaller interarticular distance at L3 and L4 than those with normal myelogram, likewise the midsagittal diameter at L3 and L4 in females. In all patients other measures besides posterior disc height were smaller than those for low back pain patients (p less than 0.001) or for cadavers (p less than 0.001). The only correlation between measures and clinical manifestations was between pedicular length at L3 and limited straight leg raising. Where the disc material had been extruded into the spinal canal, the interpedicular distance was significantly wider. Only anterior disc height at L3 revealed differences between good and poor outcome one year after surgery, as did the interarticular distance at S1 in patients with normal myelogram after conservative treatment.
Evaluation of biexponential relaxation behaviour in the human brain by magnetic resonance imaging.	Quantitative estimation of individual biologic components in relaxation curves obtained in vivo may increase the specificity of tissue characterization by magnetic resonance imaging. In this study, the potential of biexponential curve analysis was evaluated in T1 and T2 measurements on the human brain at 1.5 tesla. Optimal experimental conditions were carefully observed, including the use of long TR values and a very small voxel size. T1 determination was based on a 12-points partial saturation inversion recovery pulse sequence. T2 determination involved a multiple spin echo sequence with 32 echoes. No genuine biexponentiality was demonstrated in the T1 and T2 relaxation processes of white matter, cortical grey matter, or cerebrospinal fluid. Thus, a monoexponential model seems adequate for description of the relaxation behaviour in these cases. Furthermore, the results suggest that the accuracy of the measurements may not be critically dependent on the voxel size employed.
Multilayer fluorescent immunoassay technique.	We describe a new multilayer immunoassay element for the determination of haptens in undiluted serum and plasma. Polysaccharide layers are coated onto a plastic base. The signal layer contains an immobilized antibody and a fluorescent-labeled hapten. A second layer, containing a pigment, acts as an optical screen. Sample spreading is achieved by a molded grid in contact with the upper layer of the immunoassay element. After sample is added to the element, endogenous analyte competes with the labeled hapten for the binding sites of the immobilized antibody; equilibrium is reached in 4-12 min. Because of the relative liquid-holding capacities of the layers and the grid, only a small amount of the free components remains in the signal layer. The signal is measured by front-surface fluorimetry. This technology has been applied to theophylline and thyroxin assays. Within- and between-run CVs range from 3% to 6%. Comparisons with fluorescent polarization immunoassays (Abbott TDx) showed excellent correlation (theophylline: r = 0.98, slope = 1.07, intercept = 0.3; thyroxin: r = 0.97, slope = 0.91, intercept = 0.8). The new method requires only one pipetting step (sample delivery) and is potentially applicable to a wide range of analytes.
Quantification of strontium in plasma and urine with flameless atomic absorption spectrometry.	This analytical method for determination of Sr in plasma and urine involves flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry (FAAS). Drying, charring, and atomization were optimized with respect to temperature, temperature ramp, and duration for Sr in dilute HNO3 and Sr in plasma diluted 20-fold with dilute HNO3. Calibration curves (r greater than 0.995) were linear in the concentration range 5-250 micrograms/L for Sr in various media, with intercepts negligibly small except for the calibration curves in 1:1-diluted plasma and undiluted urine. The estimated detection limits for Sr in 20-fold-diluted plasma and 50-fold-diluted urine were 2 and 3 micrograms/L, respectively. Endogenous Sr in plasma and urine was estimated at 16 (SD 8) micrograms/L and 158 (SD 26) micrograms/L (n = 6), respectively. Intra- and interassay CVs were 9.1% and 5.3% for 20-fold-diluted plasma at a Sr concentration of 25 micrograms/L, and 6.9% and 4.8% at a concentration of 250 micrograms/L. The respective CVs were 8.2% and 1.2% for 50-fold-diluted urine at the low concentration, and 4.0% and 4.6% at the high concentration. In a pharmacokinetic pilot study of 2.5 mmol of Sr orally administered to a healthy volunteer, the peak plasma concentration of Sr, 4.4 mg/L, decayed bi-exponentially [t1/2, alpha = 24 h, t1/2, beta = 77 h]; the estimated first-order absorption rate constant was 0.005 min-1; and the observed decay (day 0-6) of the urinary Sr/creatinine ratio closely paralleled the plasma decay [t1/2 = 70 h].
Microassay for screening newborns for galactosemia with use of a fluorometric microplate reader.	We describe a microassay for measuring galactose (Gal) and galactose 1-phosphate (Gal-1-P) in dried blood spots. After a coupled enzyme reaction involving galactose dehydrogenase (GADH, EC 1.1.1.48) and alkaline phosphatase (AP, EC 3.1.3.1) in a microplate well, NADH fluorescence is measured by a highly sensitive fluorometric microplate reader, capable of rapid measurement of fluorescence (2 min per 96 samples). Within- and between-run CVs for measurements of Gal at 90 mg/L with Gal-1-P at 130 mg/L were both less than 5% (n = 8), and analytical recoveries for Gal at 90 mg/L and Gal-1-P at 130 mg/L were 98% and 92%, respectively. Five hundred dried blood-spot samples can be assayed within 2 h, with full calculation of results by an on-line microcomputer. This rapid and reliable assay system is very useful for the routine screening of newborns for galactosemia.
Three direct spectrophotometric methods for determination of total bilirubin in neonatal and adult serum, adapted to the Technicon RA-1000 analyzer.	We adapted three bichromatic spectrophotometric methods for determining total bilirubin in serum, for use with the Technicon RA-1000 analyzer. The borate buffer (BOR) of Hertz et al. (Scand J Clin Invest 1974;33:215-30), the caffeine buffer (CAF) of Vink et al. (Clin Chem 1988;34:67-70), and the combined borate-caffeine buffer (B-C) of Franzini and Cattozzo (Clin Chem 1987;33:597-9) were compared. All methods required only 10 microL of serum, were precise (between-batch CVs less than 4.2%, analyte range 64-310 mumol/L), linear to 1000 mumol/L, and insensitive to interference from hemoglobin to 5 g/L. Lipemia, carotene, and methemalbumin interfered positively with each method but insignificantly unless in supranormal concentrations. Only the BOR method was sensitive to protein matrix effect. Neonates' results obtained with all three methods compared well with a Jendrassik-Gróf-based technique. However, samples from adults with cholestasis were overestimated, particularly by the CAF method, but the BOR and B-C methods would be suitable for "stat" bilirubin analysis in these samples.
Test-strip method for measuring lactate in whole blood.	We have developed a dry reagent strip system for measuring lactate in whole blood. The test strip contains lactate oxidase (no EC number assigned), horseradish peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.7), and N-ethyl-N-(2-hydroxy-3-sulfopropyl)-m-toluidine. The system is designed to measure with a reflectometer the color that developed in the test strip, although the lactate concentration can be estimated without the reflectometer. The between-run coefficients of variation for controls at three concentrations were 2.9-5.3%. The lactate concentrations in blood samples from healthy subjects before and after exercise correlated well (r = 0.97) with the results measured by the comparison method with the use of lactate oxidase. This dry reagent strip system provides a convenient and rapid test for measuring blood lactate in clinical and sports medicine.
Contribution of quinidine metabolites to electrophysiologic responses in human subjects.	The quinidine metabolites 3-hydroxyquinidine, 2'-oxoquinidione, and quinidine-N-oxide and the contaminant dihydroquinidine have been shown to have electrophysiologic activity. This study investigated the time-dependent contributions of quinidine, dihydroquinidine, and the quinidine metabolites to the electrophysiologic effects of a prolonged quinidine infusion in 14 patients referred for management of symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Electrophysiologic testing and blood sampling were done at baseline and every 5 minutes throughout a 110-minute quinidine infusion. Changes in ventricular effective refractory periods correlated significantly with serum concentrations of quinidine-N-oxide (r = 0.54; p less than 0.001), 3-hydroxyquinidine (r = 0.50; p less than 0.001), and time (r = 0.52; p less than 0.001) but did not correlate with the quinidine concentrations (r = 0.19). Multiple linear regression revealed that only 3-hydroxyquinidine and time contributed independently to changes in the ventricular effective refractory period. Quinidine concentration was the only variable that contributed independently to changes in ventricular tachycardiac cycle lengths. Time was the only variable that correlated independently with changes in QRS and QTc durations. These data indicate that active metabolites accumulate during an intravenous infusion that attains therapeutic quinidine levels and that quinidine and its metabolites may have different electrophysiologic effects.
Adjustment to diabetes mellitus in preschoolers and their mothers.	Although preschool-aged children with diabetes might be at increased risk for both general and disease-specific psychological adjustment difficulties, this issue has not been investigated. We evaluated both general and diabetes-related adjustment of 20 preschool-aged children and their mothers. The mothers completed the Child Behavior Checklist, Parenting Stress Index, Parents' Diabetes Opinion Survey, and the Preschool Diabetes Behavior Checklist. The latter measure was constructed specifically for this study to measure the frequency of oppositional and avoidance behaviors of children regarding diabetes management tasks. Mothers reported that their children displayed significantly more internalizing behavior problems (anxiety, depression, withdrawal) and were a significantly greater source of parental stress compared with corresponding nondiabetic normative group samples. Also, certain maternal attitudes about diabetes and its treatment were correlated with the children's disease-specific behavior problems. The children's general psychological adjustment, however, was not predictive of these diabetes-specific behavior problems.
Risk factors in outpatient extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	At present, outpatient extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is practiced in many centers for the treatment of urinary calculi. The safety of outpatient treatment is difficult to assess, no appropriate indications and criteria for patient selection have been established. In a retrospective study 1,203 patients, treated with ESWL using the Dornier HM-3 lithotriptor for the first time over the year 1986, were evaluated to analyze possible risk factors for outpatient ESWL. By multivariate analysis various pretreatment factors were investigated for their relation with complications arising from ESWL therapy. It was shown that stone size and sex of the patient were the strongest determining factors. In the present study a low-risk group (5% complications) could be identified, suitable for outpatient treatment, corresponding to 74% of the patient population. The remaining patients (26%) are at higher risk (18% complications) and should be considered for hospital treatment.
Premature rupture of the fetal membranes, the phases of the moon and barometer readings.	Over a 2-year period, 1,516 births were investigated to determine whether the onset of parturition could be correlated with the phases of the moon or to barometric height. 1,269 births started spontaneously, and of these, 254 (20%) started with premature rupture of the fetal membranes (PROM). No association was observed between the phases of the moon and deliveries beginning with PROM or with deliveries beginning without PROM. 1,302 of the women had regular menstrual cycles before pregnancy, and among these no specific relationship was found between the phases of the moon and the first day of the last menstruation before pregnancy. No relationship was found between the frequency of PROM and the barometric height. Variations in barometric height up to 9 h before the fetal membranes ruptured did not influence the frequency of PROM. Deliveries with PROM occurred significantly more often among primipara than among multipara. PROM occurred more frequently during night-time in the 8-hour period between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. These results suggest that the causes of PROM are not correlated to the phases of the moon or to meteorological variations.
Influence of dietary protein and gut microflora on endogenous synthesis of nitrate and N-nitrosamines in the rat.	Groups of four germ-free (GF) and conventional (CV) rats were given purified diets containing either 50 or 200 g lactalbumin/kg for 2 wk and their urinary excretion of nitrate was measured. Urinary excretion of N-nitrosoproline was also measured in one of the three experiments. Both GF and CV rats given the high-protein diet excreted significantly more nitrate and N-nitrosoproline than those given the low-protein diet. On both diets GF rats excreted more nitrate than their CV counterparts but N-nitrosoproline excretion was not affected by environment. Groups of 11 GF and CV rats given diets containing sesame meal with or without a supplement of lysine-HCl for 2 wk, excreted similar amounts of nitrate on both diets, but more nitrate was excreted by GF rats than by their CV counterparts. N-nitrosoproline excretion by rats given the lysine supplement was higher in both environments. It is concluded that endogenous synthesis of nitrate is mediated by mammalian tissues rather than microflora and that dietary protein is an important source of nitrogen for the synthesis, although surplus amino acids from an imbalanced protein source do not act as precursors of endogenously formed nitrate. Some of the synthesized nitrate or its precursors appears to be metabolized by the microflora in the CV rat.
Effect of feeding gossypol in cottonseed meal on growth, semen quality, and spermatogenesis of yearling Holstein bulls.	Yearling Holstein bulls were fed a corn silage ration supplemented with either cottonseed meal with gossypol or soybean meal in two trials to evaluate the effect of feeding gossypol on reproductive characteristics. In Trial 1, roughage to concentrate ratio was 88:12 and was fed for 60 d. In Trial 2, roughage to concentrate ratio was 50:50 and was fed for 42 d. Cottonseed meal concentrate had 3.03 g total gossypol/kg DM. Cottonseed meal concentrate was fed to provide 6 and 30 mg total gossypol/kg BW per d in Trials 1 and 2. Ejaculates were collected twice weekly via artificial vagina and critiqued for quantity and quality before and after thawing and after postthaw incubation. Leptotene spermatocytes to Sertoli cell ratio in stage 1 tubules was used to evaluate spermatogenesis. Growth characteristics and tissue total gossypol concentrations were also evaluated. No gossypol was found in plasma taken before, during, or after Trial 1 or from body organs or plasma taken during or after Trial 2. No signs of gossypol toxicity were observed, and growth characteristics were similar on both rations. Gossypol in cottonseed meal fed at low to moderate concentrations was not deleterious to seminal quantity or quality, and spermatogenesis was unaffected by treatment.
Epidemiology of metabolic disorders in dairy cattle: association among host characteristics, disease, and production.	Logistic regression was used to investigate the effects of host characteristics, production, and 23 veterinary diagnoses on the odds of contracting seven metabolic disorders among 61,124 Finnish Ayrshire cows that calved during 1983. Cows in higher producing herds were at increased risk of parturient paresis, udder edema, and ketosis. Cows that had higher previous yields were at increased risk of parturient and nonparturient paresis and ketosis. All of the metabolic disorders except udder edema were directly interrelated. Dystocia, prolapsed uterus, other infertility, and abortion were not risk factors for any of the seven metabolic disorders; however, retained placenta, early metritis, traumatic reticuloperitonitis, acute and chronic mastitis, and foot or leg injury each were direct risk factors for at least two metabolic disorders.
The reliability of type-token ratios for the oral language of school age children.	This study investigated the alternate forms reliability of four type-token ratios (TTRs) of oral language samples obtained from 52 elementary school children (9 through 12 years of age). The four TTRs included the basic type-token ratio, the corrected type-token ratio, the root type-token ratio, and the bilogarithmic type-token ratio. Language samples of 600 words were segmented into 50-word, 100-word, and 200-word samples. Within each TTR measure, there were no significant differences among the means for samples of the same size, but all means for a given sample size differed significantly from the means of all other sample sizes. Further, for samples of the same size the reliability coefficients calculated for each TTR measure were neither consistent nor significant. These findings indicate that under the conditions of the present study TTRs are not comparable when calculated for different sample sizes ranging from 50 to 600 words, and further, that they are not reliable measures of the language performance of individual elementary school children from regular classrooms for language samples of 50 to 200 words.
Non-seminomatous testicular cancer clinical stage I: prediction of outcome by histopathological parameters. A multivariate analysis.	The clinical course of 186 orchiectomized patients with testicular non-seminoma clinical stage I (CSI) was reviewed together with a reevaluation of the haematoxylin-eosin-stained histological sections of the primary tumour. Treatment (1970-1980) was as follows: abdominal radiotherapy (group 1): 132 patients; observation only (group 2): 23 patients; retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (group 3): 31 patients. Failure of the management (diagnostic error/relapse after treatment) was defined as demonstration of retroperitoneal lymph node metastases (group 3) or relapse during follow-up (group 2 and 3). Ten of the 31 primarily operated patients had retroperitoneal lymph node metastases. (These patients received 3-4 cycles adjuvant cisplatin based on chemotherapy.) Forty-six patients relapsed after a median time of 6 months (range: 2-113). The 10-year cancer-related survival rates for group 1 and 2 were 85 and 73%, respectively. No cancer-related death occurred in group 3 within the first 5 years. In a univariate analysis the following parameters were significantly (p less than 0.05) correlated with management failure: vascular invasion (blood, lymphatic), the presence of syncytiotrophoblasts, the demonstration of the histological subtype MTU. In a multivariate analysis both lymphatic and blood vessel invasion significantly predicted management failure. In 80% of the non-seminoma patients with CSI and both lymphatic and blood vessels invasion in the primary tumour failure of the primary management must be expected. In the multivariate analysis the demonstration of MTU was a predictive factor only if no differentiation was made between lymphatic and blood vessel invasion. The presence or absence of endodermal sinus tumour was not correlated with the failure rate in non-seminoma CSI. Based on easily assessable histopathological parameters of the primary tumour (small vessel invasion in particular) it is possible to define subgroups of patients with non-seminoma CSI who have a high or a low risk of relapse or who are likely to have microscopic retroperitoneal lymph node metastases. Such a differentiation should have therapeutic consequences.
Improved biometry of the anterior eye segment.	In this paper, a method is presented to evaluate the true values of several optical parameters of the anterior eye segment. These are: the thicknesses of the cornea and lens, the depth of the anterior chamber and the anterior and posterior curvatures of the cornea and lens. First, a photo is taken of each patient's eye with a Topcon SL-45 Scheimpflug camera. There are two effects distorting the photo. As the film plane and the object plane are perpendicular to each other, the imaging scale is not constant over the photo, a phenomenon which is called the camera distortion. As the light passes through different refractive media on its way from the inner structures of the eye to the camera, the rays of light are refracted, which is called the refractive distortion of the eye. Following these distortions, the proportions on the photo do not correspond to those in the human eye. The intention of this paper is to calculate the true optical parameters of the anterior eye segment. The seeming optical parameters are taken from the photo and the path of light from a point in the film plane through the camera and the refracting surfaces into the eye is constructed by ray tracing. A set of representative points calculated according to ray tracing provides a basis to evaluate the true optical parameters. This work is done using a Basic program, that accepts the seeming parameters from the photo as input values and provides the true values as output. The adjectives seeming and true added to the optical parameters indicate a value correlating with a distorted photo and a value that was corrected by the theory. The two terms were chosen by mnemonic reasons, although another pair of adjectives such as distorted and corrected might have been of higher precision. For an average adult human eye the optical parameters from the photo were compared with the calculated ones. A phantom eye with well-known optical parameters was constructed and photos were taken from this eye to verify the calculations.
Statistical comparison of ligand-binding kinetics.	We describe the application of generalized linear model methodology to the problem of testing differences among ligand-receptor interactions, and show that the method is analogous to weighted least squares regression methodology and F tests familiar to many investigators. The method accommodates incomplete block designs so that one can obtain kinetic parameter estimates directly comparable among samples analysed on incompletely overlapping sets of experimental runs. We demonstrate the method with data that compare saturation kinetics for a single penicillin-binding protein in isogenic ampicillin susceptible and resistant bacteria.
Cognitive function and regional cerebral blood flow in partial seizures.	Patients with partial seizures have cognitive function impairments that have been attributed to the toxic side effects of anticonvulsants and structural cerebral damage. However, even when these factors are absent, neuropsychological (NP) deficits have been demonstrated, although of milder degree than in structurally brain-damaged patients. Assessment of cerebral metabolism using positron emission tomography and cerebral blood flow with single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) reveals focal physiologic deficits in structurally normal areas. Using both SPECT and NP assessment with the Halstead-Reitan Battery, we evaluated 50 patients with partial seizures. Comparison of the location of visually identified regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) deficits in these patients with the location of the NP deficits revealed a significant correlation. Additional analyses indicated that rCBF quantification in visually identified areas of hypoperfusion was significantly lower than in "normal" areas and that quantified NP variables significantly discriminated patients with and without visual rCBF deficits in temporal and frontal brain regions.
A longitudinal cephalometric study on unilateral cleft lip and palate subjects.	The facial growth of nine male and 9 female subjects with surgically repaired unilateral cleft lips and palates was compared to that of 20 male and 15 female non-cleft individuals. Different cephalometric landmarks were identified on the cranial base and maxillary complex, and eleven different parameters were measured. Univariate longitudinal growth profile and mean vector analyses as well as multivariate and cross-sectional comparisons were performed between male, female, and combined normal and cleft groups. Linear data comparisons indicated statistically significant differences in the growth profile and mean vector analyses of several of the parameters describing the relationship (SNA and SNAns) and dimensions (Ans-Ptm and A-Ptm) of the maxillary complex. Incremental data comparisons on the same parameters (SNA, SNAns, Ans-Ptm and A-Ptm) indicated statistically significant differences in the mean vector longitudinal analysis and the univariate cross-sectional analysis. Most of these significant differences were concentrated in the older age comparisons (7 to 8, 8 to 9, and 9 to 10 years). Where significant differences existed, the normal sample increments were usually greater than the cleft sample increments.
Childhood cancer in Switzerland: mortality from 1951 to 1984.	Cancer mortality among children in Switzerland was analysed using (1) age-specific and age-standardized (0-14) rates from 1951 to 1984 and (2) comparison of observed numbers of deaths over the period 1960-1984 with expected one obtained by application of age-specific rates for the period 1951-1959 to the population structure of subsequent 5-year calendar periods. Certified mortality fell about 60% for leukaemias, 21% for lymphomas, 66% for Wilms' tumours, 40% for bone sarcomas and 30% for other and unspecified sites. Thus, the overall decline in childhood cancer mortality in Switzerland was around 45%, slightly more marked in females (-48%) than in males (-42%), and more pronounced in younger children (over 50% before age 5). This corresponds to an absolute number of about 50 deaths from childhood cancer per year avoided in the early 1980s as compared with expected numbers computed on the basis of rates registered in the 1950s (30 deaths per year for leukaemias alone). The estimated total number of deaths avoided during the whole period 1960-1980 was 820 (430 leukaemias alone). Trends in childhood cancer mortality persisted steadily downwards in the early 1980s, suggesting that further progress is being achieved in the treatment of these neoplasms.
Prognostic factors in gestational trophoblastic tumors. A multivariate analysis.	One hundred sixty-two gestational trophoblastic tumors (GTT) were treated at the Institute Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France, from 1975 to 1985. Sustained complete remission (CR) was obtained in 146 patients (90%). All 97 patients with no histologic diagnosis of choriocarcinoma were cured, including 19 patients considered at high risk initially. Among 65 histologic chariocarcinoma patients, 16 died (CR, 75.5%) including seven initially nonmetastatic patients. Using a univariate analysis, all factors tested in the whole group of patients were more or less significant except for age and parity. However, when the same variables were tested in patients considered at high risk initially, only three factors were statistically significant. Those three factors were the only ones associated with a statistically significant higher relative death risk (RR) on multivariate analysis and are as follows: an antecedent nonmolar pregnancy (RR = 4.3; P less than 0.01); initial presentation with more than one metastatic organ (RR = 7.4; P less than 0.01); and primary resistance to single agent (RR = 18.8; P less than 0.0001) or multi-agent chemotherapy (RR = 26.1; P less than 0.0001). It seems that those three factors, together with a histologic diagnosis of choriocarcinoma, are the prognostic factors that discriminate patients with unfavorable outcomes among the high-risk group.
Postdischarge care and readmissions.	A multifaceted intervention was hypothesized to increase postdischarge ambulatory contacts and to reduce nonelective readmissions. Patients (N = 1,001) discharged from the general medicine service were stratified by risk for nonelective readmission and randomized to the control or intervention group. Intervention patients received phone calls from nurses, mailings of appointment reminders and lists of early warning signs, and prompt rescheduling of visit failures. Patients were followed for 6 months, and the results were computed in units per patient per month. The intervention group had 10.4% more total office contacts (0.53 vs 0.48, P = 0.005) than the control group. Although the intervention group had 7.6% fewer nonelective readmission days (0.85 vs 0.92), this was not statistically significant (P = 0.5). Patients in the intervention group at high risk (N = 181) had 28.1% more office visits (0.73 vs 0.57, P less than 0.01) and 31.9% fewer nonelective readmission days (1.13 vs 1.66), but this was also not statistically significant (P = 0.06). Thus, the intervention significantly increased post-discharge contacts, primarily in high-risk patients, but failed to reduce the incidence of nonelective readmission days significantly.
Testosterone treatment of men with alcoholic cirrhosis: a double-blind study. The Copenhagen Study Group for Liver Diseases.	A double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter trial was conducted to determine the efficacy of oral testosterone treatment (200 mg three times daily) in men with alcoholic cirrhosis. By skewed randomization (3:2), 134 patients received testosterone and 87 placebo. Patients were followed from 8 to 62 months (median = 28 months). In the testosterone group, 33 patients died (25%; 95% confidence limits = 18 to 33%) as compared to 18 (21%; 95% confidence limits = 13 to 31%) in the placebo group. Taking age and significant prognostic variables into consideration, this corresponds with a relative mortality risk of 1.17 (95% confidence limits = 0.65 to 2.15) in the testosterone group vs. the placebo group. Testosterone treatment did not significantly affect liver biochemistry, prevalence of complications to cirrhosis or causes of death. Patients treated with testosterone developed significantly (p less than 0.05) higher serum testosterone and blood hemoglobin concentrations and significantly (p less than 0.05) lower plasma IgM concentrations as compared to the placebo group. The prevalence of gynecomastia decreased significantly (p less than 0.05) in the testosterone group as compared to the placebo group. We conclude that oral testosterone treatment has no beneficial effect on survival and liver biochemistry in men with alcoholic cirrhosis, and adverse effects cannot be excluded.
Recommendations for the statistical analysis of Chernoff/Kavlock test data.	The statistical analyses of the data related to the teratogenic testing of 60 compounds utilizing the Chernoff/Kavlock test are the basis of this paper. The hypotheses chosen to be tested and the statistical tests utilized to test those hypotheses are discussed. The topics explored are the use of comparisonwise error rate versus experimentwise error rate, the use of nonparametric tests versus more "conventional" parametric tests and the use of "historical data" in assessing and interpreting group difference.
Statistics of neuromuscular transmitter release in young and old mouse muscle.	1. It was reported previously that in limb muscles of old (27-30 months) CBF-1 mice, quantal content (m) of evoked transmitter release was increased compared to that in young (9-12 months) mice. In diaphragm muscles there was no change with age. The object of the present study was to determine whether the age-related increase in transmitter release was due to increase in the binomial parameter n or the parameter p. The analysis also involved consideration of goodness-of-fit between observed and expected binomial distribution of the data. 2. Spontaneous miniature end-plate potentials (m.e.p.p.s) and evoked end-plate potentials (e.p.p.s) were recorded with intracellular techniques from soleus and diaphragm muscles bathed in low-Ca high-Mg medium. The goodness-of-fit between the observed e.p.p amplitude distribution and that expected from a binomial distribution was evaluated by chi 2 test. 3. In different muscles and at different ages, the percentage of fibres with binomial e.p.p. distributions varied from 17 to 44%, even though in all fibres there was a similar proportionality between direct quantal content and the reciprocal of the square of the coefficient of variation of e.p.p. amplitudes. In addition, apparent graphical agreement between observed and theoretical binomial e.p.p. distributions was often not substantiated by the chi 2 criterion. 4. In soleus muscles from young mice, lowering the stimulus frequency from 10 to 0.5 Hz and shortening the train length from 250 to 100 pulses increased the prevalence of binomial e.p.p. distributions, but the same result was not obtained in diaphragm or soleus muscles from old mice. If the mean amplitude of groups of 10 e.p.p.s in any train showed any drift (greater than 10%) then that train was excluded from the results. Thus, in order to make valid age comparisons, only fibres with binomial e.p.p. distributions were analysed further. 5. There was no change with age in m, n or p in diaphragm muscles, but in soleus muscles from old animals a nearly 2-fold increase in n entirely accounted for the increase in m. 6. If, as proposed by others, n represents the number of release sites, then the ageing soleus neuromuscular junction may have increased numbers or length of active zones or associated membrane components.
Neuroleptic dose: a statistical model for analyzing historical trends.	Neuroleptic dosing practices during inpatient treatment of schizophrenia were examined for 1490 admission episodes during 1973 through to 1982 in two wards of a university hospital. Chlorpromazine-equivalent dose levels (CPZE) declined 50% between 1974 and 1980. As expected, length of treatment and choice of drug were both strongly related to CPZE. The general drop in CPZE is not explained by shorter treatment and changing choice of drug, however. Oral fluphenazine, haloperidol, and depot fluphenazine are used to higher maximum levels than chlorpromazine and other neuroleptics, when maximum dose is reached after one week or longer. The results illustrate that by seeking an appropriate statistical model, aggregate trends in dosing practices can be described while avoiding several of the shortcomings of earlier surveys of hospital practice.
Treatment of locally unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas: comparison of combined-modality therapy (chemotherapy plus radiotherapy) to chemotherapy alone. Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group.	Randomized trials of the Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group have previously demonstrated enhanced survival of patients with locally unresectable pancreatic cancer treated with 5-fluorouracil in combination with radiation therapy compared with that of patients treated with radiation therapy alone. The present study compared the survival of patients treated with multidrug chemotherapy [streptozocin, mitomycin, and 5-fluorouracil (SMF)] versus radiation combined with 5-fluorouracil followed by the same three-drug SMF combination. In 43 patients randomly allocated between these two arms, an improved median survival for the combined-modality therapy (42 weeks) compared with chemotherapy alone (32 weeks) was demonstrated. Overall survival following this combined-modality treatment program (41% at 1 year) was significantly superior to that following SMF chemotherapy alone (19% at 1 year), by a two-tailed log rank test (P less than .02). Serial studies of the Gastrointestinal Tumor Study Group with patients with locally unresectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma have shown that combined-modality therapy is superior to either optimal radiotherapy or chemotherapy alone.
Management of patients on psychotropic drugs in primary care clinics.	While nonpsychiatrist physicians account for the majority of prescriptions written for psychotropic drugs, little is known about the quality of their drug management strategy. We studied this issue using data from 16 academic internal medicine group practices. Data on treatment, abstracted from medical records, were compared to criteria for quality care. Eighteen percent of patients used minor tranquilizers or antidepressants. The only individual factor independently associated with use of minor tranquilizers was mental health status. Nonwhites were less likely than whites to be diagnosed as depressed or receive antidepressants, even after controlling for baseline mental and physical health status. Mental and physical health status were also independently associated with antidepressant drug use. Quality of care was low for formulating a treatment plan for either drug group and for follow-up plans for antidepressants. Documentation of an adequate treatment plan for minor tranquilizers was poorest for patients who visited a house staff or nonphysician rather than a faculty member. For antidepressants, the patients with the poorest general health status tended to have the best documentation of treatment plans.
Association of levels of lipoprotein Lp(a), plasma lipids, and other lipoproteins with coronary artery disease documented by angiography.	In a study of 307 white patients who underwent coronary angiography, the relationship of coronary artery disease (CAD) to plasma levels of lipoprotein Lp(a) and other lipid-lipoprotein variables was examined. Lp(a) resembles low-density lipoprotein (LDL) in several ways, but can be distinguished and quantified by electroimmunoassay. CAD was rated as present or absent and was also represented by a quantitative lesion score derived from estimates of stenosis in four major coronary vessels. Coronary lesion scores significantly correlated with Lp(a), total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels by univariate statistical analysis. By multivariate analysis levels of Lp(a) were associated significantly and independently with the presence of CAD (p less than .02), and tended to correlate with lesion scores (p = .06). Among subgroups Lp(a) level was associated with CAD in women of all ages and in men 55 years old or younger. An apparent threshold for coronary risk occurred at Lp(a) lipoprotein mass concentrations of 30 to 40 mg/dl, corresponding to Lp(a) cholesterol concentrations of approximately 10 to 13 mg/dl. Plasma Lp(a) in white patients appears to be a major coronary risk factor with an importance approaching that of the level of LDL or HDL cholesterol.
Zoladex: a sustained-release, monthly luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogue for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.	Zoladex, a sustained-release luteinizing hormone--releasing hormone (LHRH) analogue administered by subcutaneous injection every 28 days, was evaluated at three dose levels in 46 men with untreated advanced prostate cancer. All three Zoladex doses yielded similar endocrinologic effects. After initial transient increases in serum luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, and testosterone concentrations, serum testosterone was suppressed uniformly to castration levels within 22 days. At a median follow-up of 41 weeks, Zoladex had maintained persistent suppression of serum testosterone. Measurements of serum Zoladex levels indicated that release of the drug from the injected depot was sustained over a period of 1 month and that there was no drug accumulation as evaluated over an initial 3-month period. No antibodies to Zoladex were detected. Tumor regression rates and side effects with Zoladex therapy were similar to those reported with daily injections of subcutaneous LHRH therapy. Signs and symptoms consistent with a brief tumor flare after the first injection of the LHRH analogue were noted in eight (17%) of the study entrants. Spinal cord compression was observed in two patients within 1 week from the onset of therapy. Zoladex is considered to be an effective, sustained-release LHRH analogue for the treatment of patients with prostate cancer.
Quantitation of atherosclerosis in femoral arteriography with ECG gated exposures.	Using a densitometric method introduced in 1977 by Crawford et coll. the volumes of segments of the femoral artery were calculated from two angiographic series in each of 13 patients. ECG gated exposures were used to minimise the error of the method. The reproducibility of the method was found to be better than in a previous study in which ECG gating was not used. The method may therefore be of use in long term angiographic follow-up studies of atherosclerotic lesions, although the impact of different investigation parameters on methodologic precision is still not fully known.
Roentgenologic assessment of spondylolisthesis. I. A study of measurement variations.	Variations when measuring slip and lumbar index were studied in three lumbar specimens with different degrees of artificially created L5-S1 spondylolisthesis. Lateral radiographs were obtained with the specimens tilted and/or rotated mimicking an every-day examination situation. Slip and lumbar index were measured; slip was estimated according to a measuring method advocated by BOXALL et coll. (3) but slightly modified by us. Six radiologists evaluated each film independently. The magnitude of interobserver and intraobserver errors and variations due to positioning was found to be equally large--about 15 per cent each. Although the total measurement variation was not equal to the sum of errors involved, radiologic evaluation of degree of spondylolisthesis was found to be highly unreliable.
Histologic features associated with long-term survival in breast cancer.	Three basic cytologic variants were identified among cases of infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast (NOS). These variants were found to have different distributions among patients surviving 25 years after mastectomy, compared with matched short-lived control subjects. Multivariate analyses indicated that recognition of these cytologic variants enhanced the prognostic value of tumor grade and blood vessel invasion. Patients with tumors designated here as histologic type C, which others have called invasive cribriform carcinoma, appear to have a higher probability of long-term survival than patients with other histologic subtypes. Since they account for approximately 20 per cent of 25-year survivors, they should be distinguished from patients with other types of infiltrating ductal carcinoma (NOS).
Colony formation in vitro as a prognostic indicator for primary breast cancer.	Cells from some, but not all, tumor biopsy samples form colonies when cultured in semi-solid media. The possibility that colony formation by progenitor cells in these tumors may reflect a more "aggressive" phenotype bearing clinical implications was examined in a series of 61 patients with primary breast cancer. Tumor cells from 32 samples formed colonies in vitro. There was no correlation between colony formation and any of the standard clinical parameters such as tumor size, nodal status, metastatic spread, or hormone receptor levels. Eighteen patients had inflammatory, locally advanced and/or detectable metastatic breast cancer at the time of surgery. Sixteen of these patients have progressed and 15 have died, with no relationship between colony formation and survival. For the 43 remaining patients, 23 had a tissue sample that gave rise to colonies in vitro; 14 of these have relapsed, with a median relapse-free survival (RFS) of 37.6 months, and eight have died with a median survival time of 46.8 months. This is compared with four relapses (median RFS not reached, P = .0043, Peto-Pike), and four deaths (median not reached, P = .1175) in the group without growth of the tumor specimen. These results indicate that colony formation is an independent prognostic parameter for breast cancer, which may be useful for selecting patients who would benefit from more intensive therapy.
The kinetics of target cell lysis by cytotoxic T lymphocytes: a description by Poisson statistics.	The kinetics of T cell killing are analyzed with the assumption that encounters between killer and target cells occur at random. The application of Poisson statistics leads to a number of theoretical predictions which were then tested experimentally. Good agreement between data and theory was found.
Simplified data collection and analysis in a Schistosoma mansoni endemic area.	Proper data collection and analysis is one of the important factors to successfully carry out the surveys in Schistosoma mansoni endemic areas. The data needed can be divided into three main categories i.e. pre-survey, during the survey and follow up data. Various factors are considered important for correct data collection. Without proper data collection and analysis, future planning of the programme, monitoring of the operation, modifications, correct interpretation of the results and evaluation of the programme cannot be done. Hence correct decision on the future of the programme cannot be made by professional, technical and administrative authorities. Data collection forms could be designed as required, keeping in mind the objectives of the programme.
Evaluation of child health services at Gelukspan Community Hospital, Radithuso, Bophuthatswana, 1976-1984.	Since the independence of Bophuthatswana in 1977 many new services have been established. The policy of the Department of Health and Social Welfare to practise primary health care has been implemented step by step and special attention has been given to the well-being of infants and preschool children. During this period several parameters of child health have been monitored, such as mortality rates, nutritional status and immunization status. In a few years significant changes have taken place.
Midtrimester amniotic fluid delta optical density at 450 nm in normal pregnancies.	Spectrophotometric analysis of amniotic fluid has become the standard for assessing the fetal condition in Rh-immunized pregnancies. Serial amniocentesis is usually started at 28 to 29 weeks of gestation unless the antibody titer or history indicates it should be done earlier. This study presents the values from 14 to 20 weeks in normal pregnancies, which will also assist in evaluating pathologically elevated values.
Gastrointestinal toxicity of chemotherapy and the influence of hyperalimentation.	The effect of combination chemotherapy on human small intestinal morphology and disaccharidase activities and their relation with clinical and chemical (fecal wet weight and K-excretion) parameters for gastrointestinal toxicity were evaluated in patients with disseminated malignant melanoma receiving enteral normoalimentation (NA). Also evaluated were the supposed protective effects on gastrointestinal toxicity of enteral hyperalimentation (HA) with an elemental diet. After chemotherapy, a comparable decrease in villus height, total mucosal height, and mitotic index was found in jejunal biopsy specimens of both groups. However, in the NA group, the crypt depth decreased (in contrast to the HA group), whereas the disaccharidase activities in the HA group deteriorated to lower values than in the NA group. The authors found no correlation between disaccharidase levels and mucosal morphology, nor was there a correlation between these variables, fecal parameters and clinical diarrhea, suggesting that diarrhea occurring after chemotherapy was not due to loss of mucosal tissue or decrease in enzyme activities. A protective effect of HA with an elemental diet on gastrointestinal toxicity could not be established.
The National Reporting Program for Mental Health Statistics: history and findings.	The National Reporting Program for Mental Health Statistics had its origins in the decennial U.S. census, with enumeration of the "insane and idiotic" in 1840. A series of special censuses of the insane and feebleminded in public and private hospitals and other institutions began in 1904, and annual censuses of patients in mental institutions were conducted from 1926 to 1946. The National Institute of Mental Health of the Public Health Service took over responsibility for the annual census of patients in mental institutions in 1947. Coverage and content remained the same until the mid-1960s, when only State and county mental hospitals were included in the census. Because the annual census could not provide the data needed, separate programs were begun for inpatient and outpatient service. These were integrated into the National Reporting Program in 1966. Trend data for the last 40 years describe how the specialty mental health sector has developed. Non-Federal general hospitals with separate psychiatric services increased dramatically, from 81 in 1940 to 1,531 in 1982, as did community mental health centers, from 125 in 1965 to 691 in 1980. There was generally less emphasis on inpatient care and more on outpatient care. Full-time equivalent staff in specialty mental health facilities increased from about 325,000 in 1970 to about 432,000 in 1982. Expenditures by facilities also increased dramatically.
Linkage and segregation analyses of apolipoproteins A1 and B, and lipoprotein cholesterol levels in a large pedigree with excess coronary heart disease: the Bogalusa Heart Study.	Robust methods were employed, using data from a single large pedigree, to screen serum apolipoprotein A1 and B levels, serum lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and ratios of serum lipoprotein cholesterol fractions to apolipoprotein A1 and B levels for genetic linkage to 31 polymorphic markers. Segregation analyses were performed for each of the apolipoprotein and lipoprotein cholesterol fractions to obtain estimates for use in applying likelihood methods of linkage analysis. Trait-marker combinations for which linkages were suggested from the robust methods were then reexamined for linkage using the likelihood (lod score) method. Results from the segregation analyses were consistent with major gene determination of apo B and HDL-C levels, the HDL-C to apo A1 ratio, the LDL-C to apo B ratio, and a measure of relative content of cholesterol in HDL-C and LDL-C. Linkage between haptoglobin and the HDL-C/apo A1 ratio was suggested, with a lod score of 1.72 at theta = 0.05.
Towards a reduction in publication bias.	Current practice results in the publication of many research studies in medical and related disciplines which may be criticised on the grounds of inadequate sample size and statistical power. Small studies continue to be carried out with little more than a blind hope of showing the desired effect. Nevertheless, papers based on such work are submitted for publication, especially if the results turn out to be statistically significant. There is confusion about what makes a result suitable for publication. Often there is a preference for statistically significant results at the peer review stage. Consequently published reports of small studies tend to contain too many false positive results and to exaggerate the true effects. The use of a criterion of a posteriori power does not eliminate the bias; a priori power is the criterion of choice. This could be implemented by peer review of study protocols at the planning stage by funding bodies and journals.
Effects of age, birth cohort and period of death on Swiss cancer mortality, 1951-1984.	Swiss death certification data over the period 1951-1984 for total cancer mortality and 30 major cancer sites in the population aged 25 to 74 years were analysed using a log-linear Poisson model with arbitrary constraints on the parameters to isolate the effects of birth cohort, calendar period of death and age. The overall pattern of total cancer mortality in males was stable for period values and showed some moderate decreases in cohort values restricted to the generations born after 1930. Cancer mortality trends were more favourable in females, with steady, though moderate, declines in both cohort and period values. According to the estimates from the model, the worst affected generation for male lung cancer was that born around 1910, and a flattening of trends or some moderate decline was observed for more recent cohorts, although this decline was considerably more limited than in other European countries. There were decreases in cohort and period values for stomach, intestine and oesophageal cancer in both sexes and (cervix) uteri in females. Increases were observed in both cohort and period trends for pancreas and liver in males and for several other neoplasms, including prostate, brain, leukaemias and lymphomas, restricted, however, for the latter sites, to the earlier cohorts and hence partly attributable to improved diagnosis and certification in the elderly. Although age values for lung cancer in females were around 10-times lower than in males, upward trends in female lung cancer cohort values were observed in subsequent cohorts and for period values from the late 1960's onwards. Therefore, future trends in female lung cancer mortality should continue to be monitored. The application of these age/period/cohort models thus provides a summary guide for the reading and interpretation of cancer mortality trends, although it cannot replace careful inspection of single age-specific rates.
Reversibility of increased intestinal permeability to 51Cr-EDTA in patients with gastrointestinal inflammatory diseases.	Intestinal permeability in adults with inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases was investigated by measuring the 24-h urinary excretion of orally administered 51Cr-EDTA. Eighty controls along with 100 patients with Crohn's disease, 46 patients with ulcerative colitis, 20 patients with gluten-sensitive enteropathy, and 18 patients with other diseases were studied. In controls, the median 24-h excretion was 1.34%/24 h of the oral dose. Patients with Crohn's disease (median 2.96%/24 h), ulcerative colitis (median 2.12%/24 h), and untreated gluten-sensitive enteropathy (median 3.56%/24 h) had significantly elevated urinary excretion of the probe compared to controls (p less than 0.0001). Increased 24-h urinary excretion of 51Cr-EDTA had a high association with intestinal inflammation (p less than 0.0001). Test specificity and sensitivity were 96% and 57%, respectively. A positive test has a 96% probability of correctly diagnosing the presence of intestinal inflammation, whereas a negative test has a 50% probability of predicting the absence of disease.
An analysis of the validity of self reported occupational histories using a cohort of workers exposed to PCBs.	An investigation was conducted to examine the validity of self reported work histories obtained from a sample of 326 capacitor manufacturing workers who had participated in an epidemiological study relating health abnormalities to exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls. Based on objective personnel records obtained for 288 members of the sample group, validity scores ranged from 20% to 100% with most falling between 70% and 75%. This validity range corresponded to misclassification proportions ranging from 13% to 29%. Exposure misclassification tended to be random for men but non-random for women (overestimation of exposure). By means of multiple regression analysis, the diversity of the job categorical pattern was found to be a significant independent predictor of validity. The factors sex, duration, and time lapse were also significant validity predictors but only interactively with job diversity. There were also indications that interviewer skill could be an important factor. Knowledge of the magnitude of these factor effects could be critical in planning retrospective epidemiological studies.
Effects of cost sharing on physiological health, health practices, and worry.	In a randomized trial of the effects of medical insurance on spending and the health status of the nonaged, we previously reported that patients with limited cost sharing had approximately one-third less use of medical services, similar general self-assessed health, and worse blood pressure, functional far vision, and dental health than those with free care. Of the 20 additional measures of physiological health studied here on 3,565 adults, people with cost sharing scored better on 12 measures and significantly worse only for functional near vision. People with cost sharing had less worry and pain from physiological conditions on 33 of 44 comparisons. There were no significant differences between plans in nine health practices, but those with cost sharing fared worse on three types of cancer screening and better on weight, exercise, and drinking. Overall, except for patients with hypertension or vision problems, the effects of cost sharing on health were minor.
Reliability of self-reported sexual behavior risk factors for HIV infection in homosexual men.	This study was undertaken to determine the reliability of self-reported sexual behavior using the test and retest technique when used with self-reported sexual behavior. The subjects were 116 asymptomatic homosexual men who participated in another study (an examination of behavioral and demographic determinants of HIV antibody status). The subjects were asked to complete two questionnaires. The first contained demographic and sexual behavior questions. The second, administered an average of 6 weeks later, used a subset of the questions in the first questionnaire. The reliability of the test-retest procedure was measured by the Kappa statistic, which assesses the proportion of agreement between two data items, accounting for the amount of agreement expected by chance. The highest degree of reliability as measured by Kappa was found with demographic information, smoking history, and sexual orientation. Self-reported sexual behaviors for the previous 6 months generally had the next highest degree of reliability as measured by Kappa. Questions examining change over the previous 5 years had the lowest reliability. Behavior changes during the time between questionnaires, subjectivity of the answer categories, and social desirability of the answers are three factors that may result in a lack of reliability in this self-reported sexual behavior questionnaire. This raises methodological concerns about the measurement of behavioral risk factors for AIDS and the ability to assess meaningfully subjective reports of behavioral change.
Medicare prospective payment and posthospital transfers to subacute care.	This study analyzed the early effects of the Medicare Prospective Payment System (PPS) on the likelihood of hospital's discharging Medicare beneficiaries to skilled nursing facilities (SNFs), intermediate care facilities (ICFs), and home health agencies. It also examined length of stay before transfer. Discharge abstract data on patients in five DRG groups were studied. Data were obtained from 501 hospitals for the third quarters of 1980, 1983, 1984, and 1985. Multinomial logit and ordinary least squares regression techniques were employed. After controlling for hospital and patient characteristics, including severity of illness, it was found that the probability of transfer increased substantially in virtually all DRGs and discharge destinations studied. This was particularly true for patients with stroke, pneumonia, and major joint and hip procedure. The analysis reveals that PPS increased the rate of discharges to subacute facilities. This effect was stronger for transfer to SNFs than to ICFs and home health agencies. Further, the impact of PPS on transfers was greater in 1985 than in 1984. Lengths of stay before transfer tended to decline in almost all DRGs and destinations examined. However, the effects of PPS on lengths of stay of transferred patients were not statistically significant at conventional levels. The results suggest that payment experiments with broader forms of bundled services are in order, as are experiments with hospital acute-subacute swing beds.
Dental crowding and its relationship to mesiodistal crown diameters and arch dimensions.	An investigation was carried out to determine the correlation among cumulative mesiodistal crown widths, arch dimensions, and the degree of primary dental arch crowding. Two different ethnic groups were studied--namely, indigenous British and Pakistani immigrant groups--to determine whether similar correlations existed as part of a larger study of ethnic comparisons. Correlation matrix computation and multiple regression analysis were among the tests used. The results showed that in both ethnic groups there were very significant correlations between certain arch dimensions and the degree of crowding. There was no significant correlation between cumulative mesiodistal crown widths and dental crowding when considered in isolation. In combination with the other parameters, however, cumulative mesiodistal crown widths contributed significantly to the overall regression equation. This suggested a complex interrelationship among cumulative mesiodistal crown widths, the various arch dimensions, and primary dental crowding.
Tooth size, spacing, and crowding in relation to eruption or impaction of third molars.	A study was conducted for the purpose of comparing mesiodistal tooth diameters, sum of tooth widths, and the degree of spacing or crowding in the dentitions of two groups of young adults. The subjects in the first group had complete dentitions including third molars (M3s). In the second group, all M3s had been extracted for failure to erupt. Tooth size and consequently the sum of mesiodistal tooth widths were found to be greater in the extraction group than in the group with complete dentitions. The relationship between tooth size and M3 impaction was most pronounced in female subjects. The sum of mesiodistal tooth widths is apparently one factor of importance in the cause of M3 impaction in women. The results suggest that tooth size in girls could be used at preadolescent age as one predictive variable for third molar eruption. The sexual dimorphism demonstrated regarding the relationship between tooth size and M3 impaction implies that studies in the field of M3 development and eruption should be performed on male and female subjects separately. The dental arches in the extraction group tended to be more crowded than in the group with complete dentitions. However, the differences were small and significant only as they related to the upper arches in males.
The intrinsic stability of Class I molar relationship: a longitudinal study of untreated cases.	Attainment of a Class I molar relationship (Angle) is often a prime treatment objective. In addition to considerations of improved function and skeletodental harmonies, a Class I relationship often is deemed the "correct" and stable situation. This study assessed the relative stability of the sagittal molar relationship in orthodontically untreated persons with full dentitions who were followed longitudinally from young (approximately 20 years) to older (approximately 55 years) adulthood. The Class I relationship is indeed most stable; none of 69 cases (sides) starting in a Class I cusp-in-groove relationship moved from that condition. In contrast, Class II relationships naturally became significantly "more" Class II (that is, greater distoclusion), and Class III cases shifted significantly to greater mesioclusion.
Comparison of sublingual lorazepam with intramuscular diazepam as sedatives during oral surgery.	Sublingual lorazepam (2 to 3 mg) was compared with intramuscular diazepam (0.25 mg/kg) and placebo for sedation during oral surgery under local anesthesia. Sixty patients were randomly allocated into three groups in this double-blind, parallel study. The results from this trial show that sublingually administered lorazepam provided good sedation and anxiolysis. More side-effects, such as giddiness, dizziness, and ptosis, as well as profound and prolonged psychomotor impairment, were, however, found in the lorazepam group than in those patients who had received intramuscular diazepam (0.25 mg/kg) or placebo.
Current trends in the treatment of maxillofacial injuries in the United States.	This report presents the results of a 1987 survey of members of the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons used to assess current national and regional trends in the management of maxillofacial trauma. Comparisons are also made with a similar British survey done in 1980. The results show differences between the two countries as well as regional differences within the United States. The significance of these findings are discussed.
Cytogenetic pattern in acute myelogenous leukemia: a major reproducible determinant of outcome.	An analysis was conducted of clinical and laboratory variables associated with response to remission induction therapy and remission duration in 440 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia treated between 1975 and 1983. The complete remission rate was 259/440 (59%). Specific cytogenetic abnormalities such as t(8;21), t(15;17), and inv16 were found to be favorable for response to therapy and/or remission duration, whereas those with a normal (diploid) karyotype had an intermediate prognosis. All other karyotypic abnormalities were associated with lower response rates and short complete remission durations. The karyotypes were classified as favorable, intermediate, and unfavorable groups for response and remission duration after allowing for all the other observed clinical and laboratory values related to prognosis. The cytogenetic classification was prospectively validated in an independent test group of 130 patients treated between 1983 and 1986 and showed a consistent relationship to response and remission duration. Logistic regression and proportional hazard models developed from the initial 440 patients were prospectively evaluated in the test group of 130 patients. Clear stratifications of patients into good, intermediate, and poor risk groups were obtained in the prospective tests. The karyotype of the leukemia cells is an independent prognostic variable for response and remission duration in acute myelogenous leukemia.
Reproducibility of cephalometric measurements.	This cephalometric study was undertaken to compare and contrast the errors involved in taking linear and angular measurements using three different methods; hand instruments on tracings, digitization of tracings, and direct digitization of the radiographs. Of the three methods direct digitization of the radiographs proved to be the most reproducible particularly with angular measurements, although statistically significant differences were rarely found. Tracings were advantageous only with linear measurements involving constructed points such as Gonion and Articulare. Traditional methods of measurement using a ruler and protractor compared well with computer based methods involving the digitizer.
Use of methods of spectral-correlation analysis for studying the temporal and spatial organization of tissues]	Tissues within the organism represent multidimensional systems organized in time and space and having statistical dispersion in each parameter. Changes in its state may have a character of a monotonous trend and be periodical (the matter of chronobiology). The methods for detection of latent periodicities, developed in chronobiology, are applied for estimation of not only temporary but also spacial characteristics of the object. One of such methods is the calculation of the power spectrum of the autocorrelative function. Examples of its application are given.
Human models for cancer active immunotherapy.	In this editorial,  the author considers the human models for research on cancer immunotherapy. He distinguishes between trials which have given a direct demonstration of the action of immunotherapy, in which the effect of this treatment has been compared to therapeutic abstention, and those which have shown an indirect proof of its action and in which immunotherapy is compared to chemotherapy of which the effect is known, or in which the combination of chemotherapy and immunotherapy is compared with the same chemotherapy applied alone. The author concludes with methodological and ethical considerations about clinical trials applied to active immunotherapy.
Computations for a best match strategy for kidney transplantation.	In some cases success or failure of a proposed innovation in transplantation may be better judged if we consider the average survival time of the graft rather than the actuarial survival at a point in time. It is suggested that HLA matching may be an example of such a case and that the possible clinical benefits of modest improvements in matching may have been underestimated. Calculations are made that show that transplanting to the best match available in a pool of 100 patients might increase the expected graft survival time by more than 1 year.
HLA matching and cadaver kidney transplant survival in North America: influence of center variation and presensitization.	In an analysis of 4,851 first cadaver kidney transplants, we found a statistically highly significant correlation between the number of HLA antigens mismatched and graft survival (P less than 0.0005 at 1 year). The difference in the survival rates of grafts with no HLA mismatch compared with grafts with four mismatches was 11 to 12%, similar to results of previous analyses. HLA-A locus antigens had a slightly stronger effect than B locus antigens. The correlation of HLA matching with graft survival was most significant at centers with poor overall transplant outcome, and there was no correlation at centers with very good overall results. Presensitization also had the strongest effect at centers with poor overall graft survival.
Recommendations for the use of Taylor series confidence intervals for estimates of vaccine efficacy.	A simple formula for calculating confidence intervals by means of a Taylor series variance approximation has been recommended for gauging the precision of estimates of vaccine efficacy. To evaluate the performance of Taylor series 95% confidence intervals for vaccine efficacy, we conducted a simulation study for commonly expected values of vaccine efficacy, risk of disease in the unvaccinated population, and sample sizes of the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups. In the first simulation, the sample size in the vaccinated group was 500 or 1000, whereas that in the unvaccinated group ranged from 10 to 1000. The confidence intervals were accurate when the sample size in the unvaccinated group was >/=50 and the risk of disease was 0.3-0.9. In contrast, the intervals were too narrow when all three of the following situations occurred: the number of unvaccinated was small (10 or 20), the true vaccine efficacy was relatively low (60% or 80%), and the risk of disease was 0.5-0.9. Furthermore, when the true vaccine efficacy was high (90% or 95%) and the disease risk in the unvaccinated was low (0.1 and 0.2), the confidence intervals were too broad, especially when the unvaccinated sample size was <50. Additional simulations with a sample size in the vaccinated group of 200 gave broad intervals for 95% vaccine efficacy (for all values of disease risk) and for 90% vaccine efficacy when the disease risk was </=0.3.
Pitfalls of regional cerebral blood flow analysis in cerebrovascular disease.	In 20 patients with unilateral cerebrovascular disease, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured by F-18-fluoromethane inhalation and positron emission tomography (PET). The purpose was to study various strategies of rCBF data analysis that are currently used in SPECT and PET. Methods of quantitative data analysis standardize rCBF values relative to an intraindividual reference, and thus create ratios as estimators of rCBF in the ischemic regions-of-interest (ROI). These ratios were compared as well as the absolute rCBF values in the ischemic ROI graphically and by Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (r). The results demonstrated that previously reported methods of data analysis failed to represent rCBF in the ischemic ROI; r values were 0.467, -0.406, -0.453, and 0.329, respectively (N.S.). This failure was due to a more widespread reduction of rCBF even in patients with minimal ischemic deficits. In conclusion, previously reported strategies of rCBF analysis based on intraindividual standardization should not be used in patients with cerebrovascular disease since they may produce misleading results.
Proportional hazards models for average data for groups.	In ecological studies it is sometimes tempting to apply statistical models derived from longitudinal studies of individuals to cross-sectional data which may be available only in aggregate form for groups of individuals. This paper examines the assumptions and approximations that are made when average data for groups are used with predictive equations derived for individuals, in particular for the proportional hazards model. It is shown that this method underestimates age-specific hazard functions but that if ratios of hazard functions are used to compare groups then the approach is valid provided that certain plausible conditions hold. A numerical example is given about trends in heart disease mortality in Australia. Group data are available on risk factor levels and mortality. A proportional hazards model derived from the Framingham study is used to estimate the effects on mortality which may be attributed to risk factor changes and the effects attributable to other factors such as improved medical treatment. The interpretation of the results is discussed.
Polyvascular patients. Retrospective study of 4200 vascular patients operated on between 1980 and 1986]	Polyvascular patients. Among a consecutive series of 4200 patients submitted to vascular surgery, a group of 292 people operated on, in at least two anatomically and physiologically different sites, is individualized as polyvascular patients. A subgroup is characterized by simultaneous procedures in two separated fields; 32 have benefited in the same time from carotid and coronary procedures, i.e., 0.6% of all coronary patients and 2% of all carotid patients. The carotid-coronary group exhibited a more severe anatomical disease both in the carotid and the coronary vasculatures. Apart from simultaneously operated patients, others were sequentially treated over a 7 years period: people with carotid (25%) or visceral (40%) arterial disease were more prone to become polyvascular. Polyvascular patients differ from monovascular patients in that hypertension is more frequent and more severe, mean cholesterol level higher and incidence of severe hypercholesterolemia more frequent.
Odd man out: a graphical approach to meta-analysis.	The areas of overlap of confidence intervals from several studies can be used to create summary confidence regions. These summary regions lend themselves to graphical display, have readily derivable statistical properties, and can carry information about the influence both of available studies and of hypothetical future investigations. The case of a region covered by at least N-1 out of N confidence intervals is presented in some detail.
The cerebral metabolic landscape in autism. Intercorrelations of regional glucose utilization.	Correlations between regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc), determined by positron emission tomography using 18F-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-D-glucose, provide a measure of the functional associations between brain regions. We compared correlations between ratios of resting rCMRglc to global brain metabolism from 14 healthy autistic men (ages, 18 to 39 years) with those from 14 matched control subjects. The autistic group showed significantly fewer large positive correlations between frontal and parietal regions, particularly those with the left inferior frontal region and its right hemispheric homologue, and significantly lower correlations of the thalamus, caudate nucleus, lenticular nucleus, and insula with frontal and parietal regions, with many correlations negative in the autistic group that were positive in the control group. These results are compatible with functionally impaired interactions between frontal/parietal regions and the neostriatum and thalamus, regions that subserve directed attention.
A comparison of methods for quantitating fetal heart rate variability.	Fetal heart rate (FHR) variability is thought to be an important index of fetal health. In the presence of normal variability, the fetus is vigorous, but lack of beat-to-beat variability may be associated with fetal compromise. A distinction between short-term variability (STV) (beat-to-beat changes between successive beats) and long-term variability (LTV) (rhythmic fluctuations in FHR) has not been made to date. We have utilized computer programs to compare three pairs of mathematical indices and one visual index of FHR variability. Among the three pairs of indices designed for detection of STV and LTV, de Haan's short-term and long-term indices exhibited the least interdependence, and the long-term index was completely insensitive to artifically generated pure STV. Yeh's short-term and long-term indices exhibited substantial positive interdependence. Hon's visual index appears to detect LTV primarily rather than STV. When the effect of progression of labor on FHR variability was examined, no conclusions were possible because of inconsistencies between patients. Ultimately, the clinical value of any one of these indices awaits testing of their ability to define fetal well-being or fetal distress.
Adaptation of an automatic bacterial colony counter for measuring lung tumor growth in mice.	Adaptation of an automatic bacterial colony counter proved to be an efficient procedure for detecting and quantitating tumor growth in mouse lungs prepared by the Wexler method of India ink insufflation. After correlation of the size discriminator settings on the automatic counter with the Wexler visual scale, the amount of tumor growth in the lungs of 52 mice was determined by eye and independently by the automatic counter. There was no statistical difference between the two procedures. When the mouse lungs were grouped according to the number of tumors computed by eye, there was no statistical difference between the two counting procedures in any of the groups. The standard deviation was independent of the number of tumors in the lungs. This caused the precision of the automatic counter to be poor in lungs with few tumors because the error was a greater percentage of the total. In lungs with a large number of tumors, which were difficult to count by eye, close agreement between the two methods of counting was demonstrated.
The statistical distribution of macrophage migration distance and its application to MIF test.	The measurement of the distance of macrophage migration is very simple and reasonable as a technique in MIF assay. By the use of this technique, a large scale model experiment was performed and its data were analysed statistically. As the result of analysis, Student's t-test for significance of the difference between control and test readings of migration distance at low activity level in the MIF test was justified, and it was proved that it is applicable to the routine MIF test. In addition to this, the measurement of migration distance was compared with that of migration area.
Six-month effects of a sanguinarine dentifrice on plaque and gingivitis.	A six-month, double-blind clinical trial was conducted to determine the effectiveness of a sanguinarine-containing dentifrice in reducing plaque and gingival inflammation. One hundred twenty adult volunteers were randomly assigned to a control or experimental group. The test dentifrice contained 750 mcg/g of sanguinaria extract. A dentifrice of similar composition without sanguinarine was used as the placebo. Plaque and gingival inflammation scores were recorded for four surfaces on each of 12 index teeth at baseline, one-, three, and six-months. Matched pair t-test analyses showed no significant differences between experimental and control groups for mean six-month changes in plaque and gingival inflammation scores in analyses using all 48 sites per subject or in analyses of only the 24 interproximal sites. No long-term reduction was demonstrated in plaque or gingival inflammation with the use of a sanguinarine-containing dentifrice.
The power of analysis: statistical perspectives. Part 1.	Failure to consider statistical power when achieving apparently "negative" results prevents accurate interpretation of the results. A nonsignificant result can be obtained when one includes an insufficient number of subjects to permit observation of a true effect (low power to detect an effect), or when one has an adequate number of subjects, but a meaningful effect does not exist (high power, no effect); one can also have a situation of lower power and no real effect. Without considering power, one is unable to distinguish a "negative" experiment from an inadequate one. This article examines 154 published nonsignificant t-test results. When power is calculated with an effect size equal to a standardized difference of unity, over 50% of the tests have inadequate power.
The power of analysis: statistical perspectives. Part 2.	A discussion of the importance of statistical power in research is presented accompanied by nomograms for determining sample size and statistical power for the Student's paired and unpaired t tests with a Type I error of 5%. A brief review of statistical inference is presented. Some findings from Part I are reviewed.
Properties of acoustical speckle in the presence of phase aberration. Part I: First order statistics.	The first order statistical properties of acoustical speckle patterns are studied as a function of several types of random and structured phase error. Such errors may arise from tissue velocity inhomogeneities or limitations in the acoustical imaging system. In this paper, we review the theory describing the statistical properties of speckle, describe a computer model which predicts the mean speckle brightness in the presence of phase aberrations, and report experiments in which we measure the effect of these aberrations on speckle brightness and variance. We find that the average speckle brightness is significantly reduced by even mild phase aberrations. The phase aberrations studied include focal point errors, random phase errors, and structured errors. Good agreement is found between experiment and computer simulation. We then discuss the implications of these results for imaging through aberrating media, tissue characterization and phase compensation methods.
Pill count measures of compliance in a drug trial: variability and suitability.	To evaluate pill counts as a compliance measure for drug trials, we followed 121 ambulatory hypertensives selected for good compliance over less than or equal to 12 months. The medication regimens consisted of either pinacidil or hydralazine as monotherapy or with propranolol and/or hydrochlorothiazide. Pill counts for the two primary drugs were obtained at each of the 20 return visits. The population was characterized by chronic uncomplicated hypertension and sociodemographic diversity; mean age was 53 years. Despite excellent average weekly pill counts (overall mean compliance rate [+/- SD] = 96.0 +/- 13.2%), we observed large intersubject and intrasubject variance in weekly pill count assessment: individuals' mean standard deviation = 13.7% (range = 0%-86%) and mean coefficient of variation = 0.138 (range = 0.001-0.410). By pill count, 35% of individuals exhibited greater than 110% compliance on at least 1 visit. We conclude that (a) pill count variability is large, even among highly selected subjects, (b) traditional reports of overall pill counts are suboptimal, and (c) pill counts may unreliably measure medication-taking behavior because "supranormal" compliance by this method is improbable but common.
Value of beta 2-microglobulin level and plasma cell labeling indices as prognostic factors in patients with newly diagnosed myeloma.	Beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2M) has been proposed as a prognostic factor in multiple myeloma (MM), but beta 2M levels are reported to correlate with other prognostic indicators such as stage and creatinine level. This study addressed the independent prognostic values of these and other variables, including plasma cell labeling indices (LI), in patients with newly diagnosed MM. beta 2M levels were measured with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. LI were determined with a [3H]thymidine autoradiography method. By multivariate analysis and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, the uncorrected beta 2M level remained the most significant prognostic factor after adjustment for age. Stage and creatinine level were closely related to beta 2M level and were no longer predictive of outcome after adjustment for age and beta 2M. Plasma cell LI varied independently of beta 2M level and remained predictive. A subset of patients with plasma-blastic myeloma had poor survival since beta 2M level and plasma cell LI were high. By using beta 2M level and LI, three risk groups were defined: low (beta 2M less than 4 micrograms/mL and LI less than 0.4%, median survival 48 months); intermediate (beta 2M less than 4 micrograms/mL and LI greater than or equal to 0.4%, median survival 29 months); and high (beta 2M greater than or equal to 4 micrograms/mL, median survival 12 months). Such grouping may better identify MM patients who might benefit from new treatment regimens.
Altered vancomycin dose vs. serum concentration relationship in burn patients.	Drug elimination in patients sustaining serious thermal injury may be altered, resulting in an increased clearance and shortened half-life. Nine burn and eight medical/surgical patients with normal renal function were studied prospectively. Doses were adjusted to achieve peak and trough vancomycin serum concentrations within a narrow range. No significant difference between the groups was noted in terms of demographic characteristics, creatinine clearance, or vancomycin serum concentrations. However, the difference in daily dose needed to maintain the specified serum concentrations was significantly greater for burn patients (p less than 0.02). Burn patients also had to be dosed significantly more often than medical/surgical patients to achieve peak and trough vancomycin serum concentrations within the desired range (p less than 0.02). The elimination half-life in burn patients was significantly shorter than that in control patients (p less than 0.001). Because of the unusually high dosage requirements in burn patients, along with their poor predictability, individualization of therapy with vancomycin serum concentrations is recommended to ensure a successful therapeutic outcome.
Effects of educational interventions in diabetes care: a meta-analysis of findings.	Forty-seven studies on the effects of patient teaching on knowledge, self-care behaviors, and metabolic control were analyzed using meta-analysis. Variables, such as type of patient instruction, type of research design, and overall quality of the study, also were analyzed. The 236 effect sizes had an unweighted mean of 0.91 (SD = 0.75) and a weighted mean of 0.33 (SD = 0.01). The weighted mean effect size for studies with control groups (N = 27) was 0.40 (SD = 0.05), and the weighted mean effect size for studies using the one group pretest-posttest design (N = 20) was 0.53 (SD = 0.05). Homogeneity analyses resulted in weighted mean effect size estimates for knowledge subvariables ranging from 0.41 to 0.91; for skill performance, 0.25 to 0.38; for compliance, 0.24 to 1.01; and for metabolic control, 0.06 to 0.84. Experimental mortality was the only variable significantly correlated with the overall weighted mean effect size, r = .52, p = .002. The results of this study clearly support the notion that patient teaching has positive outcomes in diabetic adults. Furthermore, methodological issues were important factors which influenced these findings.
Health effects of low-level irradiation during development: experimental design and prenatal and early neonatal mortality in beagles exposed to 60Co gamma rays.	As part of a long-term study of the effects of irradiation during development, prenatal and early neonatal mortality were evaluated for beagles exposed in utero at 8 days postcoitus (dpc), 28 dpc, 55 dpc, or 2 days postpartum. Mean doses used were 0,0.16, or 0.83 Gy. A decrease in whelping rates was observed for female breeders irradiated at 8 dpc. There was a significant decrease in litter sizes from female breeders irradiated at 8 and 28 dpc. Both of these findings are indicative of increased embryonic mortality. There was a significant decrease in the percentage of females born after exposures given at 28 dpc, indicating a differential radiosensitivity by sex. A significant increase in early neonatal mortality up to 14 days of age was observed for beagles exposed 8 or 28 dpc, again with an excess mortality in females.
Combination chemotherapy using adriamycin, DTIC, cyclophosphamide, and actinomycin D for advanced soft tissue sarcomas: a randomized comparative trial. A phase III, Southwest Oncology Group Study (7613).	The term soft tissue sarcoma refers to a large variety of malignant tumors arising in extraskeletal connective tissues that connect, support, and surround discrete anatomic structures. All visceral organs also contain a connective stroma that can undergo malignant transformation. Because of the histological similarities of this group of tumors and their relative rarity, treatment prescriptions for patients that have disseminated disease are most often uniform. In this study, we asked the question whether adding a third drug (cyclophosphamide or actinomycin D) to Adriamycin (Adr [Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH])-(3,3-dimethyl-1-triazeno)- imidazole-4-carboxamide (DTIC) would improve the response rate and/or survival. A unique feature of this cooperative group clinical trial was the mandatory pathology review of the histological material. All patients of the Southwest Oncology Group between June 1, 1976, and November 17, 1979, who had a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis of a soft tissue sarcoma with convincing clinical or biopsy-documented evidence of metastatic disease were eligible for the study. Patients were randomized to receive (1) Adr, 60 mg/m2 intravenously, day 1, and DTIC, 250 mg/m2 every 3 weeks (104 patients); (2) Adr and DTIC as in (1) and cyclophosphamide, 500 mg/m2, day 1 (112 patients); or (3) Adr and DTIC as in (1) and actinomycin D, 1.2 mg/m2, day 1, (119 patients). There was no statistically significant difference in response rates (33%, 34%, and 24%) (P = .25). Median durations of response were 31 weeks in the Adr-DTIC arm, 26 weeks in the cyclophosphamide-DTIC-Adr arm, and 23 weeks in the Adr-DTIC-Actinomycin D arm (P = .78). Median durations of survival were 37, 42, and 50 weeks, respectively. Again, no statistically significant differences were observed (P = .59). Toxicities from each of these treatment arms were formidable and were equivalent. Prognostic factor analysis showed a prognosis based on bone marrow reserve, sex, and pathology subtype favorable to patients.
Stage III follicular lymphoma: durable remissions with a combined chemotherapy-radiotherapy regimen.	From 1975 to 1982, 74 patients with stage III follicular lymphoma were treated with a combined modality protocol which included chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (CHOP-Bleo), and radiotherapy to involved regions. This program resulted in a complete remission (CR) rate of 81%, a 5-year survival of 75%, and 5-year relapse-free survival (RFS) of 52% for all patients. Analysis of potential factors affecting treatment outcome revealed a significantly better CR rate for patients with small cleaved cell type (97%) than for patients with mixed (73%) or large-cell (57%) histologies. The 5-year survival was significantly better for patients with small cleaved (91%) and mixed (84%) cell types than for large cell (40%). In addition, bulky abdominal disease and elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were significant adverse prognostic factors for CR and for survival. Toxicity was moderate. No secondary leukemias have occurred. This combined modality regimen resulted in prolonged remission and potential cure for over half of patients who achieved CR, and is particularly encouraging for those with follicular small cleaved and mixed histologies.
The effect of decreased caffeine consumption on benign proliferative breast disease: a randomized clinical trial.	A single-blind, randomized clinical trial of 56 female subjects was conducted to determine whether decreased consumption of caffeine decreases breast pain/tenderness or nodularity in patients with suspected benign proliferative breast disease. The subjects were randomly assigned to one of three groups--a control group (no dietary restrictions), a placebo group (cholesterol-free diet), and an experimental group (caffeine-free diet). At the initial examination, the subjects reported on the presence of breast pain, the degree to which pain affects daily activities, the frequency of pain, the degree of pain associated with breast examinations, and the degree of pain associated with close-fitting clothing. Subjects were then examined and the four quadrants of each breast were rated on a scale of 0 to 3 (0 = normal, fatty tissue, 1 = little seedy bumps or fine nodularity, 2 = discrete nodules or ropy tissue, 3 = confluent areas, hard or soft masses). Subjects in all three groups returned for 2- and 4-month follow-up examinations. Total nodularity scores, degree of pain/tenderness, and compliance with dietary restrictions were analyzed. The data showed that decreased caffeine consumption did not result in a significant reduction of palpable breast nodules or in a lessening of breast pain/tenderness.
On the statistical evaluation of adherence assays.	Parametric (unpaired t-test) and non-parametric (Mann-Whitney U-test) methods have been used in the evaluation of adherence assays on the non-antibiotic antimicrobial agent, Taurolin. In all but one case, where the anti-adherence effect was known to be marginal, both statistical methods gave similar results although there were some minor differences in the levels of significance achieved. The effect of the agent on the deviation of adherence data from normality was quantified by calculation of the skewness coefficient for each data set. A significant anti-adherence effect appears to result in a decrease in the skewness of the adherence assay data. It was concluded that either parametric or non-parametric statistical evaluation of adherence assay data is valid for large numbers of observations. In future studies of this type it is suggested that attention should also be given to the effect of the anti-adherence agent on the deviation of adherence data from normality as denoted by the skewness coefficient.
The 5-year results of a randomized trial of adjuvant radiation therapy after chemotherapy in breast cancer patients treated with mastectomy.	The use of adjuvant radiation therapy in breast cancer patients treated with mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy has been controversial. In order to assess the necessity and effectiveness of adjuvant radiation therapy in this setting, we reviewed the results in 510 patients with T1-T3 tumors and pathologically positive nodes or tumors larger than 5 cm and negative nodes who were treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients with four or more positive nodes or at least one positive apical node were randomized to receive either five or ten cycles of cyclophosphamide/Adriamycin (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) (CA) and patients with one to three positive nodes or operable tumors larger than 5 cm and pathologically negative nodes were randomized to receive eight cycles of either cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (CMF) or methotrexate and 5-FU (MF) chemotherapy. Two hundred six of these patients were subsequently rerandomized to receive either no further treatment or adjuvant radiotherapy. Thirty-five patients withdrew after randomization, including 34 who declined to receive radiotherapy. Radiation therapy consisted of 4,500 cGy in 5 weeks to the chest wall and appropriate draining lymph nodes. Median follow-up from chemotherapy randomization is 45 months for patients in the CA arm and 53 months for those in the CMF/MF arm. The crude rate of local failure (chest wall or draining lymph node areas) as first site of failure for patients randomized to receive chemotherapy only was 14%; for those randomized to receive both chemotherapy and radiotherapy it was 5% (P = .03). For patients in the CMF/MF arm, the rate of local failure as the first site of failure was nearly the same for patients randomized to chemotherapy only as for those randomized to adjuvant radiotherapy as well (5% v 2%). For patients in the CA arm, the crude rate of local failure was 20% for patients randomized to receive chemotherapy only, and 6% for those randomized to both types of adjuvant treatment (P = .03). Among the 43 patients treated with CA who actually received radiotherapy, there was only one local failure, compared with 12 local failures among the 59 patients (20%) who actually did not receive radiotherapy (P = .007). No significant difference was seen in disease-free survival or overall survival in either the CA or the CMF/MF arm between patients randomized to receive radiation therapy and those randomized to no further treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Guide for the Salmonella typhimurium/mammalian microsome tests for bacterial mutagenicity.	Since its development by Dr. Bruce Ames and his coworkers, the Salmonella typhimurium/mammalian microsome mutagenicity assay has been used widely throughout the world. Many authors have suggested various modifications and made recommendations in regards to this assay. Although the recommendations of a panel of experts was published in 1979 by de Serres and Shelby, a committee of members of the Environmental Mutagen Society (EMS) initiated this effort in response to the encouragement by the American Society of Testing and Materials (Committee E47.09.01) and because of new developments within the field of microbial mutagenesis testing. Its purpose is to provide a guide for people who perform or evaluate microbial mutagenesis tests, but it is not intended for these recommendations to replace or diminish the usefulness of presently available protocols and procedures.
Age-associated decline in cardiac allograft rejection.	The influence of age on cardiac allograft rejection was studied in 57 consecutive recipients. Twenty-one subjects were 54 years of age or older (mean, 57.7 +/- 0.6 years [+/- SEM]; range, 54 to 63 years) and 36 subjects were 52 years of age or younger (mean, 39.9 +/- 1.8 years; range, 16 to 52 years; p less than 0.001). The older recipients had fewer rejection episodes during the first four months following cardiac transplantation (0.24 +/- 0.05 episodes per month versus 0.72 +/- 0.09 episodes per month; p less than 0.001) and during the total duration of follow-up (0.20 +/- 0.03 episodes per month versus 0.40 +/- 0.07 episodes per month; p = 0.045), and experienced their first rejection episode later (50.4 +/- 4.0 days versus 27.7 +/- 8.5 days; p = 0.008). Younger age was found to add significantly as a predictor of rejection in a multivariate analysis that controlled for sex, immunosuppressive agents, cause of heart failure, and pretransplantation lymphocyte cross-match status (r = 0.64, p less than 0.05). Decreased rejection frequency occurred without a concomitant increase in the serious infection rate (67 percent in both groups). The 12-month actuarial survival was 100 percent in the older group and 94 percent in the younger group (p = NS). Decreased rejection in the older recipients is likely a manifestation of an age-associated decline in immune function and might represent an advantage in transplantation for carefully selected older patients.
Relapse rate of healed duodenal, prepyloric, and gastric ulcers treated either with sucralfate or cimetidine.	A multicenter double-blind study was designed to compare the relapse rates of peptic ulcers after initial healing with a cytoprotective agent and a histamine (H2)-receptor antagonist. Patients with endoscopically verified prepyloric or duodenal ulcers were treated with cimetidine 400 mg twice daily or sucralfate 1 g four times daily for a maximum of eight weeks; gastric ulcers were treated for up to 12 weeks. Patients with healed ulcers were followed up to 12 months, during which time anti-ulcer medication was not permitted. Control endoscopy was performed two to four and nine to 11 months after healing and at the time of symptomatic relapse. A total of 258 patients were followed for 12 months; of these, 143 had been previously treated with cimetidine and 115 had been treated with sucralfate. The relapse rates and the median time to relapse did not differ between the two groups. After 12 months, 71 percent of the previously cimetidine-treated patients and 68 percent of the sucralfate-treated patients had experienced a relapse. Smoking significantly increased the relapse rate and shortened the time to relapse in the total study population and among cimetidine-treated patients; it had no such effect in the sucralfate-treated group.
Pulsatile secretion of TSH in healthy subjects.	The physiological variations in serum TSH concentration have been investigated using an enzyme amplified immunoassay with improved sensitivity and precision. Blood samples were collected at regular intervals from 10 healthy volunteers during the period 1800 h to 0100 h. Spectral analysis followed by periodic regression analysis demonstrated significant serum TSH pulsatility with periodicities of 60 or 85-100 min. In addition, a significant (P less than 0.001) evening rise in serum TSH concentration was demonstrated in all subjects, with levels rising at around 21.30-22.00 h.
Quantitative analysis of the molar-size sequence in human prehistoric populations of the Canary Isles.	Percentage frequencies for molar-size sequence of first and second molars, as well as the statistical parameters for the individual differences between the measurements of these molars, were calculated in two human prehistoric aboriginal samples from Gran Canaria and Tenerife Islands using mesiodistal and buccolingual dimensions. Remarkable differences between the two populations, whose cultural and anthropological differences are well established, were observed. The findings support the hypothesis that quantitative analysis of molar size sequence can be useful in establishing phylogenetic relationships between populations.
Analysis of object clustering.	Objects of a given type lie on a plane or in a thin layer. In the analysis of the arrangement of such objects, the question may arise as to whether these objects form clusters or whether they are randomly distributed. This question can be answered by the calculation of the coefficient of dispersion (CD) of the objects. Some statistical properties of this coefficient, i.e., its sensitivity and its chi-square approximation, are analyzed in this paper. The proposed approach for calculating sensitivity is a mathematical simulation that is not generally applicable but is valid in various biologic applications. Assuming that the objects are much smaller than the expected clusters and that no knowledge exists about interactions among the objects or between the objects and their surroundings, the objects can be assumed to be distributed randomly on the plane. Such situations may occur in various fields, i.e., biology, sociology, archaeology and ecology. The authors have applied this approach successfully in investigating the densities of T-cell lymphocytes in renal transplants treated with Cyclosporin A or conventional immunosuppressive therapy.
Detection of diagnostic clues in statistical histometry.	Examples are given of the detection of diagnostic clues in quantitative cytology and histopathology by statistical testing, such as may be applied in image analytical procedures. Schematic and other examples are presented of the visual images analyzed by each procedure, whose limits are also discussed. The situations analyzed include increased cellularity, differences in nuclear placement patterns, uniformity of displacement, variance in nuclear diameters and chaincode variance of nuclear placement. A specific model is presented for describing or generating a series of dependent observations representing nuclear placement, based on the Box-Jenkins (ARIMA) models for decomposing a spatial or temporal series into several components. This model describes the statistical observations that are random samples from the series. Finally, one graphic example is given in which visual inspection more readily ascertains an alteration than does statistical analysis of a modest-sized sample.
Prognostic factors for gastrointestinal and bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumors.	Data collected by population-based cancer registries in Iowa and metropolitan Atlanta were evaluated to determine prognostic factors for gastrointestinal (n = 270) and bronchopulmonary (n = 151) carcinoids. The predictors considered in univariate and multivariate analyses were: age, sex, race, marital status, anatomic subsite, stage, occurrence of other malignancies, and surgery. For surgically treated gastrointestinal tumors, the cumulative percentages of survivors at five years were: appendix, 85.6%; small intestine, 66.0%; and large intestine, 37.7%. The likelihood of death from gastrointestinal carcinoids was found to be related independently to increasing age (P = 0.001), advanced stage (P less than 0.0001), location within the large intestine (P less than 0.0001), and occurrence of another malignancy (P = 0.02). The overall five-year survival rate for bronchopulmonary carcinoids was 87.6%, and lack of surgical treatment (P less than 0.0001) and advanced stage (P = 0.006) were associated independently with unfavorable prognosis.
Ultrasonographic measurement of the posterior coats of the eye and their relation to axial length.	In 159 eyes with a spherical correction varying from +14.0 to -27.0 diopters, the axial length and thickness of posterior ocular coats were measured ultrasonographically. As proven in experimental studies, retina, choroid, and sclera were resolved in a considerable percentage of cases by combining A- and B-mode techniques of modern ultrasonographic equipment. The presumed close inverse correlation between the axial length of the eye and ocular coat dimensions was confirmed by statistical analysis. These values were used to calculate the approximative volume of the posterior half of the ocular coats. There was evidence for a constant tissue volume regardless of the difference in surface and axial length parameters between hyperopic and myopic eyes. Results are discussed and compared with theories of axial growth under physiological and pathological conditions.
A mathematical method for analysing plasmid stability in micro-organisms.	A mathematical model describing the instability of plasmids in micro-organisms has been developed. The model is based on the assumption that the overall causes of plasmid instability are described by the segregational instability of the plasmid, R (i.e. the rate at which plasmid-free cells are generated from plasmid-bearing cells), and the growth rate difference, d mu (i.e. the difference in growth rate between plasmid-free and plasmid-bearing cells). A method for determining the values of R and d mu (accompanied by 95% confidence limits) for any plasmid-bearing micro-organism is described. This method is based on the observation that, depending on the plasmid, various exponential patterns of plasmid instability are observed. The stability of Escherichia coli 1B373(pMG169), where d mu much greater than R, and E. coli RV308(pHSG415), where R much greater than d mu, are analysed in order to demonstrate the method.
Impact of air filtration on nosocomial Aspergillus infections. Unique risk of bone marrow transplant recipients.	Bone marrow transplant recipients were found to have a 10-fold greater incidence of nosocomial Aspergillus infection than other immunocompromised patient populations (p less than 0.001) when housed outside of a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filtered environment. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that number of infections, age, and graft-versus-host disease severe enough to require treatment were independent risk factors for development of nosocomial Aspergillus infection in this group. The use of whole-wall HEPA filtration units with horizontal laminar flow in patient rooms reduced the number of Aspergillus organisms in the air to 0.009 colony-forming units/m3, which was significantly lower than in all other areas of the hospital (p less than or equal to 0.03). No cases of nosocomial Aspergillus infection developed in 39 bone marrow transplant recipients who resided in this environment throughout their transplantation period compared with 14 cases of nosocomial Aspergillus infection in 74 bone marrow transplant recipients who were housed elsewhere (p less than 0.001). Thus, although bone marrow transplant recipients had an order-of-magnitude greater risk of nosocomial Aspergillus infection than other immunocompromised hosts, this risk could be eliminated by using HEPA filters with horizontal laminar airflow.
State of the art in comparative cancer clinical trials.	In order to investigate the current state of the art in clinical cancer research, a survey of comparative cancer clinical trials was conducted using a MEDLINE literature search of the 6-month interval from July to December of 1985. Data were obtained primarily from the published abstracts. The major observations from the study are as follows. First, trials in cancer research are published in an extraordinarily wide range of journals covering most of the major medical specialties in addition to the many cancer specialty journals. Second, randomization is now used quite extensively. It is the predominant method of control in chemotherapy trials and in trials reported in cancer journals. However, its use is much less common in other specialties, especially surgery, so efforts to popularize randomization in these specialties would be beneficial. Third, sample sizes are highly variable, and the median sample size (96 patients) is too small to reliably detect and evaluate moderate treatment advances. Finally, our survey reveals that published trials show an inordinately large proportion of breakthroughs in treatment compared with the generally accepted view that only slow progress is being made in developing effective cancer treatments. Our view is that this result reflects the strong tendency to publish only studies with positive results. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that in nonrandom trials there tend to be more positive conclusions and an absence of a strong association between conclusions and sample size.
How large should a phase II trial of a new drug be?	A number of statistical designs for phase II trials have been published. These designs are critically reviewed. A new design is also introduced. Data are presented on the response rates observed for new chemotherapeutic agents introduced by the National Cancer Institute since 1975. Based upon this material, it is recommended that two-stage designs with a target sample size of 35-50 patients and substantial probability of early termination are usually appropriate. It is also recommended that for active drugs, two to three such trials are necessary to estimate the response rate with reasonable precision. Precise estimation of phase II response rates is not always important, however. For very rare diseases or situations where several dose levels of a biologic are to be evaluated, selection designs may be most appropriate. Such designs are described. Tables are presented to facilitate the design of new agent phase II clinical trials.
B-cell lymphomas of high-grade malignancy frequently lack HLA-DR, -DP and -DQ antigens and associated invariant chain.	The expression of HLA-DR, HLA-DP and HLA-DQ antigens was studied in an unselected series of 66 B-cell lymphomas by means of immunohistology using monoclonal antibodies against non-polymorphic determinants in a sensitive immunoperoxidase technique. In addition, the expression of the MHC class-II antigen-associated invariant chain (li) was examined. The tumors were classified according to the Kiel classification, 30 being of high-grade and 36 being of low-grade malignancy. Only 6 lymphomas of high-grade and 16 lymphomas of low-grade malignancy showed coordinate strong expression of all HLA class-II antigens and invariant chain as observed in the normal peripheral B cell. Six further tumors of high-grade and 8 tumors of low-grade malignancy contained tumor-cell subsets with reduced expression of one or several of the antigens. Eighteen lymphomas of high-grade and 12 lymphomas of low-grade malignancy contained varying tumor-cell subsets that were negative for HLA-DR, -DP, -DQ and li in a selective or combined manner. Three highly malignant tumors were devoid of all class-II antigens and li; 2 highly malignant tumors expressed invariant chain only. The presence of high-grade malignancy was significantly correlated with the occurrence of tumor cells lacking HLA-DR (p = 0.004), HLA-DP (p = 0.013), HLA-DQ (p = 0.007) or li (p = 0.024).
The choice of computational unit in the statistical analysis of unbalanced clinical trials.	Clinical periodontal research often involves the treatment of patients who have disease at several sites in the mouth. Should the units of analysis be the patients, the sites, or a combination of both? These strategies are explored and a worked example given.
Theoretical longevity and biological functional time]	It is shown in this study that the theoretical life span of an human being is given by the sum of two parts: the inverse value of its aging rate mu o, and the age tmw at the maximal growth rate. The age tmw is used as a unit of individual biological or functional time, which is an irreversible value.
On sample-size and power calculations for studies using confidence intervals.	A recent trend in epidemiologic analysis has been away from significance tests and toward confidence intervals. In accord with this trend, several authors have proposed the use of expected confidence intervals in the design of epidemiologic studies. This paper discusses how expected confidence intervals, if not properly centered, can be misleading indicators of the discriminatory power of a study. To rectify such problems, the study must be designed so that the confidence interval has a high probability of not containing at least one plausible but incorrect parameter value. To achieve this end, conventional formulas for power and sample size may be used. Expected intervals, if properly centered, can be used to design uniformly powerful studies but will yield sample-size requirements far in excess of previously proposed methods.
Physician knowledge, attitudes, and behavior related to reporting adverse drug events.	Voluntary physician reporting of adverse drug events (ADEs) in their patients remains the single most important source of information on serious and rare ADEs. Yet, substantial underreporting exists and the factors producing it are unclear. We surveyed 3000 randomly chosen physicians by mailed questionnaire to determine their knowledge about the reporting system, attitudes toward reporting, and their past behavior in reporting the ADEs they had detected. Responses numbered 1121. Only 57% were aware of the Food and Drug Administration's reporting system. While 418 physicians had detected an ADE in their practices during the previous year, only 21 physicians reported these events directly to the Food and Drug Administration. The physicians appear to appreciate the safety issues involved in prescription drug use and view reporting as a professional obligation; however, the current reporting system is considered inconvenient.
Physician office analyzers. Do they satisfy medically useful criteria for analytical performance of laboratory tests?	The coefficients of variation (CVs) for several tests on physician office analyzers were compared with published data for medically useful criteria of these tests. Medically useful CVs were based on physicians' opinions of significant changes in laboratory tests. Precision studies using control material were carried out on four physician office analyzers by both a trained technologist and nontechnical personnel, such as physicians, nurses, and medical office personnel. This study was carried out during a six-month period. The instruments that were evaluated were the Reflotron, Seralyzer, Vision, and DT60. Low and high concentrations of quality control material, supplied by the manufacturer and those in use in the study laboratory (Omega I and II, Cooper Biomedical, Fairhaven, NJ), were used. With few exceptions, all instruments satisfied the medically useful CVs criteria, ie, the precision obtained by both the technologist and nontechnical personnel either equaled or exceeded the precision requirements set by physicians.
What are we measuring? An examination of self-reported functional status measures.	Functional status questionnaires are being used in various types of studies. To determine factors related to self-reported functional ability for rheumatoid arthritis patients, we examined the relationship between a functional and mental health questionnaire and objective disease-specific measures. Using 3-5 predictor variables, we explained 43-57% of the variance in patients' self-reported functioning. Mental and physical health perceptions were significant predictors for each self-reported functional measure. The relationships among mental health and self-reported functioning should be considered when interpreting studies that use functional status questionnaires.
Reproducibility of the diagnosis of cervicitis in pregnancy.	Cervicitis has been associated with several infections of the female genital tract. Criteria have been established for making the diagnosis of cervicitis in gynecologic populations but there are no well-established criteria for diagnosing cervicitis in obstetrical populations. Because of the association of the cervicitis and sexually transmitted diseases, and because of the association of sexually transmitted diseases and adverse pregnancy outcome, the present study was undertaken in an attempt to establish criteria for the diagnosis of cervicitis in pregnancy. We also attempted to determine the reproducibility of that diagnosis with respect to intra- and interobserver variability. We concluded that intraobserver variability is improved after specific training has been completed and that interobserver variability may be reduced to an acceptable level. On a public health scale, this may allow for identification of a population at high risk for adverse pregnancy outcome when sophisticated microbiologic techniques are unavailable.
Changes in histology and cell kinetics during the growth course of xenografted squamous cell carcinoma.	Two xenografted tumor lines, established from squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck, were studied with respect to the growth parameters of the Gompertz function and changes in growth rate, cell cycle phase distribution, and histologic pattern during the course of growth. The tumors were transplanted subcutaneously in the back. Both tumor lines exhibited growth curves compatible with Gompertzian growth. The parameters of the Gompertz function differed significantly between the tumor lines. Tumor volume doubling time also varied during the course of growth. Flow cytometric analysis of cell cycle phase distribution showed an initial decrease in the fraction of cells in S-phase, parallel with an increase in the fraction of cells in GO/1-phase. As much as 50% of the cells were mouse-derived in tumors less than 100 mm3 in volume, after which the proportion of mouse-derived cells decreased to below 10%. This variation correlated with changes in the histopathologic picture.
The relative reliability of oral contraceptives; findings of an epidemiological study.	A study performed in The Netherlands shows that an undesired pregnancy, claimed to be due to "method failure" with oral contraceptive use and resulting in a request for induced abortion, occurs approximately twice per 10,000 woman-years. For these claimed method failures the type of pill used has been recorded during the years 1982-1984. From those data it is clear that the usage of sequential and triphasic OCs was found to be significantly more often amongst women who requested abortion than would have been expected on the basis of their usage in the general population. This over-representation of sequential and triphasic OCs could not be explained by gastro-intestinal disorders or by drug-interaction.
Statistical exploration of four major genotoxicity data bases: an overview.	This report puts into perspective a series of exploratory statistical analyses carried out on the major genotoxicity data bases. While large compilations of data, even though computerized, suffer from their own size and are quite intractable to scientific reflection and judgement, the multivariate data analysis methods used by us are specifically designed for reorganising the information in a rational way and highlighting the underlying regularities of the data. The analyses reported here refer to the following data bases: the International Program for the Evaluation of Short-Term Tests for Carcinogens, the International Program on Chemical Safety Collaborative Study on In Vitro Assays, the Gene-Tox data base, and a subset of the U.S. National Toxicology Program data. Although the various data bases consisted of different sets of chemicals and had different underlying rationales, a number of invariant associations among short-term test performances were highlighted. The overall evidence indicated that the traditional classification of assays (according to the criteria of genetic end-point and phylogenetic position of the assays) was in contrast with the actual, operational similarities among assay performances, in that the experimental responses of the tests to the large variety of chemicals under consideration pointed to an alternative classification scheme. This consisted of three major classes: 1) a class comprising the in vivo assays; 2) a class grouping together many of the most widely used in vitro assays (Salmonella, chromosomal aberrations, and sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster ovary cells, the various mutation tests in mammalian cell systems, etc.); 3) a second in vitro assay class (with Syrian hamster embryo cell transformation, Saccharomyces cerevisiae XV185-14C, B. subtilis rec-, Escherichia coli pol A). Such classes had clearly differentiated features with respect to carcinogenicity prediction. The implications of these findings for the current debate on mutagenicity testing are discussed.
Statistical sampling approaches.	This article describes basic sampling principles and the application of statistical sampling techniques to specific problems encountered in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Concepts are emphasized, and theory is minimized. The basic principles of sampling from a normal and binomial population, including confidence interval calculation and sample size determination, are briefly reviewed. Stratified, random, systematic, and judgment sampling are explained. Operating characteristic curves for attribute (and perhaps variable) sampling for acceptance of lots are derived and applied to specific FDA problems. The advantages and disadvantages of single and multiple sampling plans and plans which address multiple classes of criteria such as major and minor defects are discussed. Sampling schedules such as MIL-STD-105D and Canada's Government Specifications Board CGSB-105-GP-1 are reviewed to familiarize readers with the principles involved in these plans and to give them an idea of how they could be applied to FDA problems.
Comparison of in vivo and in vitro activity of estrogen-linked nitrosoureas in methylnitrosourea-induced rat mammary carcinoma.	The anticancer activity of estradiol-linked 2-chloroethylnitrosoureas in methylnitrosourea-induced rat mammary carcinoma was investigated using the short-term assay and the bilayer soft agar system after in vitro exposure as well as the monolayer methylcellulose assay following in vivo treatment. The aim was to evaluate to what extent previous in vivo findings are paralleled by the results of two in vitro test systems and the monolayer culture technique ex vivo. From the test systems investigated and under the conditions used, the results of the short-term test and the monolayer methylcellulose assay did not show a correlation with previous in vivo findings. Only the results of the bilayer clonogenic assay paralleled therapeutic parameters in vivo, although the degree of activity obtained in vivo was not reflected in vitro.
Use of statistical evaluation of antigen profiles in differential diagnosis between colonic and ovarian adenocarcinomas.	A study was carried out to determine whether it was possible to classify colonic and ovarian adenocarcinomas by their antigen profile. Colonic and ovarian adenocarcinomas were immunostained with a panel of antibodies which have a limited specificity for colon (parlam-4, 19.9, anti-secretory component) and ovary (OV-TL3 and OC125) and the most discriminatory antibodies were selected by stepwise linear discriminant analysis. For frozen material OV-TL3 and OC125 were the best classifying antibodies. Although OC125 had better discriminative power, for paraffin wax embedded material parlam-4 was selected as the best classifying antibody. OC125 had no additional effect on the classification of a tumour. These antibodies were subsequently tested on an independent test set of primary and metastatic adenocarcinomas of colonic and ovarian origin. When ovarian posterior probabilities of less than 0.1 and greater than 0.9 were selected as cut off points for a positive identification of colonic or ovarian origin (jackknifed classification method), no adenocarcinoma was incorrectly identified as ovarian carcinoma in frozen material. The same trend was noticed for paraffin wax embedded material. Statistical analysis of antigen profiles can be helpful in defining the colonic or ovarian origin of an adenocarcinoma when routine microscopy does not yield a definitive result.
Geographically-based cancer control: methods for targeting and evaluating the impact of screening interventions on defined populations.	Successful implementation of cancer control programs depends on efficient targeting to those at highest risk of developing and dying from the disease. This study presents a methodology for targeting cancer screening on the basis of population and disease variation among small geographic areas. Techniques for quantifying the impact of targeting on the predictive value of a positive test are demonstrated, using 329 New York City health areas. Age-truncated crude incidence, late-stage incidence and mortality rates for breast, cervix, and colorectal cancer are used, using site-specific truncation points relevant to the age groups appropriate for screening. Coefficient alpha was used to determine rate stability with 2, 3, 5 and 7 years of data. The stability of most small area rates was found to reach acceptable levels only with 5 and 7 years of data. Targeting into areas where breast cancer prevalence was high increased the expected predictive value of a positive test by as much as 50% when compared with areas of average prevalence. Geographic targeting will be most useful where between-area variability in prevalence is large and within-area variability is small. The implications of these results are discussed and future studies are suggested.
The influence of diagnostic access bias on the epidemiology of sarcoidosis: a population-based study in Rochester, Minnesota, 1935-1984.	A population-based study was conducted among residents of Rochester, Minnesota from 1935-1984 to examine the influence of diagnostic access bias on the incidence and mode of presentation of clinically recognized sarcoidosis. Immigrants had an elevated risk of sarcoidosis and were more likely to present with asymptomatic sarcoidosis diagnosed on routine screening chest radiographs. Similar patterns were observed for health professionals, a group with markedly greater access to the diagnostic procedures which label them as having sarcoidosis. Sarcoidosis exhibits a spectrum of manifestations, ranging from a totally asymptomatic process discernible only by specific diagnostic scrutiny to a clinically obvious presentation with significant morbidity. For disease entities such as this, apparent patterns of occurrence may depend on differential access in the study population to the maneuvers necessary for diagnosis. Diagnostic access bias, in addition to other diagnostic biases, deserves more careful scrutiny in epidemiologic research.
Periodicity of GABA-containing cells in primate prefrontal cortex.	The tangential distribution of GABA-containing cells was examined in the principal sulcus of the frontal lobe in 12 macaque monkeys. Following immunostaining with GABA antisera all immunoreactive cells were charted and their distribution analyzed with both statistical and spectral density methods. In addition, a gapless series of sections was used to generate a 2-dimensional reconstruction of cell disposition in the tangential plane parallel to the pia. Our findings indicate that the GABA cells are not distributed uniformly across the cortex, as is commonly believed, but that their density is characterized by 2 independent sinusoidal fluctuations: a high-frequency component with a period ranging from 150 to 250 micron superimposed upon a lower-frequency component with a period of 1000-1275 micron. The half-cycle of the low-frequency component (roughly 625 micron) is very similar to the dimensions of afferent and efferent columns in the principal sulcus, while the half-cycle of the higher-frequency component (approximately 125 micron) is closer in size to that of the functionally defined columns of neurons found in regions of sensory cortex that share common physiological properties. To our knowledge, these findings are the first indication that inhibitory local circuit neurons are not uniformly or randomly distributed, but exhibit periodicities that may be related to the columnar, functional and architectural organization of the cortex.
Survival, functional status, and reoperations after repair of tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia.	Among 139 patients who underwent repair of tetralogy with pulmonary atresia, survival rates at 1 month and at 1, 5, 10, and 20 years were 85%, 82%, 76%, 69%, and 58%, respectively. The hazard function (instantaneous risk of dying) was greatest immediately after operation and declined thereafter, but a low constant hazard persisted for as long as the patients were followed up. Multivariately, the postrepair ratio between peak right ventricular and left ventricular pressures measured in the operating room provided the most information relative to the probability of death after repair, and cardiopulmonary bypass time the next. When morphologic abnormalities of the pulmonary circulation were considered in the multivariate analysis for risk factors for death, the size of the pulmonary arteries provided the most information, followed by the number of large aortopulmonary collateral arteries. The postrepair peak right ventricular/left ventricular pressure ratio was lower the day after operation than in the operating room in 65% of the patients in whom the measurements were made. Recurrent or residual ventricular septal defects necessitating rerepair occurred in four patients (3% of hospital survivors). Most surviving patients were in New York Heart Association class I at the time of follow-up.
Percutaneous balloon mitral valvotomy for patients with mitral stenosis. Analysis of factors influencing early results.	Percutaneous balloon mitral valvotomy has recently been developed as an alternative to surgical commissurotomy for patients with rheumatic mitral stenosis. We analyzed our initial experience with 60 consecutive procedures performed in 49 patients over 1 1/2 years and identified factors influencing the immediate hemodynamic results. For the total patient population, the mitral valve area increased after percutaneous mitral valvotomy from 0.8 +/- 0.04 to 1.6 +/- 0.11 cm2 (p less than 0.001). Mean diastolic mitral gradient fell from 18 +/- 1 to 7 +/- 0.4 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and cardiac output increased from 3.8 +/- 0.2 to 4.5 +/- 0.2 L/min (p less than 0.01). Although percutaneous mitral valvotomy resulted in an increase in mitral valve area in each patient, a suboptimal result, as defined by a postprocedure mitral valve area of 1.0 cm2 or less, an increase in area of 25% or less, or a final mitral gradient of 10 mm Hg or more occurred in 21 of the 60 procedures (35%). Multivariate analysis of 16 variables was performed to determine which factors might predict this result. Patients with a suboptimal result were more likely to have severe valve leaflet thickening or immobility and an extreme degree of subvalvular thickening and calcification on echocardiogram. Other factors that predicted a suboptimal result were a smaller effective balloon dilating area and the presence of atrial fibrillation. Thus optimal immediate hemodynamic results can be obtained in the majority of patients undergoing percutaneous mitral valvotomy. Optimal results may be expected in patients in normal sinus rhythm, with pliable mitral leaflets, and with no severe subvalvular disease identified by echocardiography, who undergo dilation with large effective balloon dilating areas.
Lectin binding in human breast cancer: clinical and pathologic correlations with fluorescein-conjugated peanut, wheat germ and concanavalin A binding.	Cell surface glycoconjugates of human breast cancer tissue were investigated using FITC peanut (PNA), wheat germ (WGA) and jackbean (concanavalin A; Con A) agglutinins. Although PNA and WGA binding patterns differed when normal and malignant breast tissues were compared, the specificity of this finding was poor and neither PNA nor WGA binding correlated with oestrogen receptor status or clinical outcome. Con A binding on the other hand was not seen in normal breast tissue. The percentage of Con-A-positive (Con A+) tumours increased progressively with advancing stage (16% Con A+ in stage I, 40% Con A+ in stage III) and there was a trend towards longer disease-free survival of patients with Con A- as compared to those with Con A+ tumours. However, in a multivariate analysis it was found that these differences were explained by the association with the stage of the disease.
The status of life events in causal analytic considerations in child and adolescent psychiatry: model development trials with LISREL (linear structural relationship analysis)]	An epidemiological longitudinal child psychiatric study with 334 eight- and thirteen-year-olds tried to put life events in an optimal order within a model of causal interrelations. The causal connections were tested by a Linear Structural Relationship Analysis (LISREL), which in addition to life events included child psychiatric disorders, adverse family factors and learning disabilities. By testing different models it could be demonstrated, that adverse family factors do not directly influence the number of life events of 8 to 13-year-old children. Adverse family factors influence life events as well as psychiatric disorders at age 13 predominantly by way of early psychiatric disorders. Psychiatric disorders at age 13 are best predicted by psychiatric disorders at age 8 and to a smaller degree by life events and learning disabilities.
Specific resistivity used to estimate fat-free mass from segmental body measures of bioelectric impedance.	This report provides estimates of specific resistivity for a sample of 123 children and adults aged 9-62 y. The mean muscle-specific resistivities for the upper and lower extremities (arm and leg) and trunk of these participants were used to compute estimates of fat-free mass (FFM) from the sum of the corrected total muscle conductive volumes of the arms, legs, and trunk. Mean values for predictions of FFM from S2/Z or from the product of total muscle conductive volume and the density of FFM were not significantly different from means of FFM estimated from body density by underwater weighing. This analysis demonstrates that an estimate of FFM can be obtained by summing the conductive muscle volumes of each body segment derived from the corresponding segment lengths squared, measures of bioelectric impedance, and mean muscle-specific resistivities. These mean estimates of FFM are not as accurate as mean predictions of FFM from S2/Z in regression equations.
Influence of ACTH1-24 on grooming and sociosexual behavior in the rat.	The effects of intraventricular administration of ACTH 1-24 on grooming, exploratory and socio-sexual behaviors in male rats were studied. The various behavioral elements were analyzed in terms of latency, frequency, and duration, which provided a multivariate behavioral profile. Behaviors that occur early during the test procedure had decreased, whereas behaviors displayed after the animal had spent some time in the test situation increased. Sociability, sexual approaches, and sexual preference in a sociosexual test situation were not altered by this treatment. The extinction of the response after removal of the incentive animals was delayed, however. It is concluded that ACTH1-24 did not specifically influence goal-directed behaviors. The obtained change in the behavioral profile, including the grooming pattern, rather suggest that ACTH1-24 affects mechanisms associated with attention and habituation.
Interrater reliability in assessing functional systems and disability on the Kurtzke scale in multiple sclerosis.	Interexaminer agreement in the use of quantitative scales for the evaluation of neurological deficits is essential to the reliability of clinical data from cooperative studies on multiple sclerosis. In this study, four neurologists, arranged into six pairs, examined 24 patients with definite multiple sclerosis and assessed each functional system and disability on the Kurtzke scale. As expressed by the kappa index, interobserver agreement was rather low, ranging from 30% to 50%. Sensory and mental functions turned out to be the most variable. The kappa indexes reached values above 85%, when raters who differed by no more than one point were considered as agreeing. A point difference on the scale of, at most, two units seemed to be a reliable index of clinical change. Moreover, these results pointed to the necessity for a specific training program for raters and for periodic control of interobserver variability in multicenter surveys.
Reevaluation of corneal complications after closed vitrectomy.	Corneal complications after closed vitrectomy were analyzed in patients treated by the same surgeon from January 1980 through December 1986. Of 428 eyes (400 patients), 64 (15%) had corneal complications, 58 (13.6%) had epithelial defects, and 12 (2.8%) had corneal edema. Among 206 diabetic eyes, 41 (19.9%) had corneal complications. Of 222 nondiabetic eyes, only 23 (10.4%) showed complications. Multiple regression analysis of possible contributing factors was performed. Diabetes, intraoperative lensectomy, and history of vitreous surgery were related significantly to the occurrence of all corneal complications combined. Our series showed a significantly decreased complication rate when compared with a previous study. Improved preoperative surgical preparation and intraoperative technique to minimize corneal trauma may have accounted for the decrease.
The pattern electroretinogram (PERG) in ocular hypertension and glaucoma.	Studies of normal subjects and of patients with optic nerve disorders suggest that one of the components of the pattern electroretinogram (PERG), the second negative wave, is related to optic nerve function and appears to be diminished even when the condition is relatively mild, with little alteration of visual acuity. It is known that significant loss of nerve fibers may occur prior to the development of visual field loss. We have investigated the PERGs of a group of subjects with early glaucoma and ocular hypertension, comparing them with normal subjects, and have found a selective reduction in the second negative wave in patients with evidence of optic nerve dysfunction. The PERG may prove helpful in discriminating those patients with ocular hypertension who are destined to develop visual field loss unless medical or surgical therapy were to be employed.
Time series modeling for quality control in clinical chemistry.	Autocorrelation of clinical chemistry quality-control (Q/C) measurements causes one of the basic assumptions underlying the use of Levey-Jennings control charts to be violated and performance to be degraded. This is the requirement that the observations be statistically independent. We present a proposal for a new approach to statistical quality control that removes this difficulty. We propose to replace the current single control chart of raw Q/C data with two charts: (a) a common cause chart, representing a Box-Jenkins ARIMA time-series model of any underlying persisting nonrandomness in the process, and (b) a special cause chart of the residuals from the above model, which, being free of such persisting nonrandomness, fulfills the criteria for use of the standard Levey-Jennings plotting format and standard control rules. We provide a comparison of the performance of our proposed approach with that of current practice.
Evaluation of the effect of norfloxacin on the pharmacokinetics of theophylline.	To investigate a possible interaction between norfloxacin and theophylline, eight healthy nonsmoking volunteers (mean age 27 +/- 5.3 years) were administered aminophylline, 5 mg/kg, before and after a 6-day course of norfloxacin, 400 mg every 12 hours, and changes in pharmacokinetic parameters were measured and compared. Norfloxacin induced significant decreases in theophylline clearance (14.9%; p less than 0.01) and the terminal phase slope (13.3%; p less than 0.02) and increased the AUC (16.6%; p less than 0.01). The apparent volume of distribution at steady state was unchanged. The greatest norfloxacin-induced individual change in theophylline clearance was a reduction of 28.6%. Given these findings, we advise that, for patients who are treated with theophylline and are subsequently treated with norfloxacin, adjustment of the theophylline dosage may be necessary in some patients to minimize the risk of theophylline toxicity.
Supraventricular tachycardia treated with continuous infusions of propranolol.	Because oral therapy is often contraindicated in hospitalized patients we assessed the safety and efficacy of continuous intravenous propranolol infusions in nine patients with refractory supraventricular tachycardia. Standard pharmacokinetic formulas predicted a loading dose (52.2 +/- 38.3 micrograms/kg), steady-state plasma concentration, and the initial maintenance dose (16.1 +/- 16.2 micrograms/kg/hr; range 6.1 to 56.0 micrograms/kg/hr) to control heart rate. Subsequent maintenance doses (3.9 to 74.9 micrograms/kg/hr) were determined by clinical response. Heart rate decreased from 146 +/- 22 to 98 +/- 16 beats/min (p less than 0.0001). This decrease persisted throughout the infusion. Measured propranolol levels (28 +/- 21 ng/ml) did not differ significantly from the predicted levels (23 +/- 17 ng/ml). The duration of the infusion averaged 97 +/- 77 hours. A side effect, transient wheezing, occurred in only one patient. This resolved when the infusion rate was decreased. We conclude that continuous propranolol infusions appear safe and effective in treating these patients with supraventricular tachycardia.
Performance review using sequential sampling and a practice computer.	The use of sequential sample analysis for repeated performance review is described with examples from several areas of practice. The value of a practice computer in providing a random sample from a complete population, evaluating the parameters of a sequential procedure, and producing a structured worksheet is discussed. It is suggested that sequential analysis has advantages over conventional sampling in the area of performance review in general practice.
Variations in the range of services provided by general practitioners.	The debate about the future role of the general practitioner includes discussion about the range of services which should be on offer in addition to general medical services. Drawing on evidence from a nationally representative sample of 1419 general practitioners this paper examines the reality of what is currently being provided in general practice in the UK. The analyses produce figures that are compatible with the hypothesis that there is a form of creeping specialization taking place with general practitioners tending to provide one type of service at the exclusion of the others. Doctors appeared to cluster into three distinct groups--opportunistic health educators, minor surgeons and those who provide services for women. The implications of these and other findings are discussed.
Pollen count, symptom and medicine score in birch pollinosis. A mathematical approach.	This study investigates the correlation between the daily birch pollen counts, hay fever symptoms and medicine scores. Fifteen birch pollinosis patients were studied during two consecutive birch pollen seasons. All had a positive history for birch hay fever and a positive skin prick test, nasal provocation test and/or conjunctival provocation test to birch pollen. The patients recorded daily symptom and medicine scores during February through May for two seasons. According to nasal/conjunctival sensitivity and medicine consumption the group was divided into three groups: very sensitive, sensitive, and fairly sensitive. The mathematical calculations were based only on the results from the two most sensitive groups. The relationship between symptom scores and medicine scores as a function of the pollen load was nonlinear. A mathematical model was calculated. It was found that simply adding symptom scores and medicine scores to a total symptom/medication score was not meaningful as a basis for a quantitative analysis. It was further shown that the response caused by a given pollen load decays exponentially with time and that this decay had a characteristic half-life period of about 1-2 days indicating a long-lasting effect, i.e. contribution of the late allergic reaction to symptoms. Both groups showed the development of increased medicine intake during the season for a constant pollen load. This indicates the development of a higher sensitivity to birch pollen during the season. The overall response was divided into characteristic levels based on dose-response relationships, and pollen concentration intervals for forecasting purposes are suggested.
Fluid intake and bladder cancer in Utah.	A population-based, incident case-control study was conducted in Utah to assess the relationship between fluid intake and bladder cancer. Cancer cases (n = 419) were identified through the Utah Cancer Registry, and controls (n = 889) were obtained through random digit dialing and the Health Care Financing Administration. After adjustment for cigarette smoking, age, sex, history of diabetes, and history of bladder infections using multiple logistic regression analysis, total fluid intake was not found to be related to bladder cancer development. Specific fluids related to bladder cancer risk were milk intake (OR = 0.64) and caffeinated coffee intake (OR = 1.60). A linear trend for a dose-response protective effect was observed for milk, while coffee increased risk only when 40 or more cups were consumed per week. Alcohol increased risk only when consumed at high levels (over 3.64 ounces or 103 g per week) by people who never smoked cigarettes (OR = 2.37). Likewise, tea consumption in non-cigarette smokers increased bladder cancer risk (OR = 2.25). Results from this study suggest that types of fluids consumed may play a role in the development of bladder cancer. Furthermore, it is hypothesized that the dietary components of these beverages may be related to the development of bladder cancer.
Quantitative assays of epidermal growth factor receptor in human breast cancer: cut-off points of clinical relevance.	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFr) assays were performed by 3 different methods on 246 human primary breast carcinomas. Scatchard analyses of multipoint binding data on 19 of the first 209 tumours, performed by a displacement method, demonstrated that the majority of tumours exhibited 2 classes of binding site, the high-affinity site with an affinity constant (KD) of mean 2 nmol/l (SD 1.3, range 0.44-7 nmol/l), and a low-affinity site, KD mean 9.5 nmol/l (range 6-15.5 nmol/l). Scatchard analysis of multipoint assays using increasing concentrations of 125I-labelled EGF showed that saturation of the high-affinity site occurred in the majority of saturation of the high-affinity site occurred in the majority of tumours at a concentration of labelled EGF of I nM. Comparison of the KD values of the high-affinity site obtained from displacement assays with those obtained by increasing labelled EGF showed that the KD was significantly higher (p = 0.0002) when measured by the latter method. There was no difference in binding capacity of the high-affinity or low-affinity sites by the 2 methods. A 2-point assay with I nM labelled EGF (specific activity approx. 80-130 microCi/microgram) correlated with quantitative values for the high-affinity site from Scatchard analysis (p less than 0.02). There was a strong inverse relationship between EGFr greater than 10 fmol/mg membrane protein (2-point assay) and ER (dextran-coated charcoal method), Chi-squared 2 X 2 contingency table test = 34.027, p less than 0.0001. Follow-up data from 135 patients revealed a strong inverse relationship between EGFr greater than 10 fmol/mg membrane protein and oestrogen receptor (ER) status and a positive correlation with early recurrence and death. Our data describe a reproducible assay for EGFr and show that a cut-off point at 10 fmol/mg allows clinically useful application.
Neutron dose effect relationships at low doses.	Stimulated by recent observations of non-linearity in the dose effect relationship for the transformation of mammalian cells in vitro by fission neutron irradiation and the reverse dose rate effect in this system, the data for mutation induction in the stamen hairs of Tradescantia occidentalis has been re-examined. The non-linear dose effect relationships suggested in the original reports are confirmed both by the dose effect relationships themselves and by an examination of the statistics of the results. This non-linearity also appears to be present in the more recent observations of other workers. It is suggested that the non-linearity in the system may be due to a sub-population of cells in a particularly sensitive phase of the cell cycle at the time of irradiation. There is a possibility that the data also indicate a qualitative difference in the underlying biophysical actions of neutron and photon radiations.
Application of an Euclidian distance measure to the selection of reference areas in epidemiologic research concerning environmental issues.	A procedure for selecting reference areas in epidemiologic research employing census data and squared Euclidian distance is described. The procedure was adapted from cluster analysis, a multivariate statistical technique that has been applied in many disciplines. With the use of 12 census variables as the basis for evaluating sociodemographic differentiation, squared Euclidian distances were calculated between a geographically delineated index area in southwest Alberta, where residents had complained for several years about the effects of exposure to sour gas emissions, and 119 provincial census tracts in the rest of nonmetropolitan southern Alberta. The Euclidian distances can be interpreted as social distance scores with values close to zero representing a high level of sociodemographic similarity between the index area and potential reference areas. The social distance scores, in association with environmental data, suggested a clear choice for the most comparable unexposed reference area and illustrated the difficulty of finding a suitable most comparable exposed reference area. Results from the demographic component of the subsequent health survey indicated that the index area and reference area were similar in most respects. Furthermore, tests with and without statistical adjustment for confounding variables produced negligible differences on most of the important target outcome variables.
Bronchopulmonary carcinoids and regional lymph node metastases. A quantitative pathologic investigation.	Bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumors are tumors with a low malignant potential. They metastasize in 5-15% of cases. Accurate histologic preoperative prediction of the presence of regional lymph node metastases is not possible at this time. A retrospective quantitative pathologic analysis was performed to investigate the possibility of predicting the presence or absence of regional lymph node metastases in 24 patients with bronchopulmonary carcinoid tumors. The results of univariate analysis showed that large tumor size was associated significantly more frequently with regional lymph node metastases than small tumor size (P less than 0.01). The other quantitative features, ie, a larger mean nuclear area, higher standard deviation of the nuclear area and the presence of an aneuploid DNA index, were frequently associated with regional lymph node metastases, but this tendency was not significant. In multivariate analysis the combination of tumor size and mean nuclear area predicted the presence or absence of regional lymph node metastases correctly in 80 and 94% of the cases, respectively. These results indicate that the combination of tumor size and mean nuclear area may serve as a guideline to predict the presence of regional lymph node metastases.
A clinical model for predicting survival following acute myocardial infarction in patients without cardiogenic shock: a multivariate (Cox) analysis.	A multivariate predictive model for early (six-month) survival based on Cox's proportional-hazards regression model was developed using data collected prospectively from 317 consecutive patients admitted with acute myocardial infarction to a coronary care unit (CCU). Of these, 63 (19.8%) died within the follow-up period. Patients with cardiogenic shock were excluded from the study. Variables associated with survival were sought from clinical, historical, electrocardiographic and radiographic variables recorded at the time of admission. On multivariate analysis, a stepwise selection procedure identified four variables which described the probability of survival for the six-month follow-up. These were: age, upper lung crepitations, marginal and also definite radiographic cardiomegaly on an anteroposterior radiograph. With this combination of clinical variables alone, using a survival probability partition value of 80%, the model had a sensitivity of 67% and a specificity of 75%. However, the model's predictive accuracy for death was 40%, compared to a predictive accuracy for survival of 90%. This clinical model is most useful for early discrimination of those patients at low risk of death within six months of CCU admission. Other predictive tests for premature death would need to exceed these discriminatory criteria to justify their cost and risks.
The reliability of measuring left ventricular ejection fraction by radionuclide cardiography: evaluation by the method of variance components.	A statistical model based on the method of variance components was applied to obtain confidence statements for single and repeat determinations of left ventricular ejection fraction by radionuclide techniques. With this approach variance caused by individual factors in the measurement procedure is estimated to allow calculation of confidence intervals based on single measurements and the detection limits for changes. Six study groups made up of a total of 143 subjects were examined by both multigated equilibrium and first pass imaging. Under favourable conditions (with an updated gamma camera and experienced observer) the 95% confidence interval with a single measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction by equilibrium imaging was +/- 3 ejection fraction units, compared with +/- 6 units with the first pass technique (one ejection fraction unit = 1/100 of the possible values from 0.00 to 1.00). The minimal significant changes (at the 5% level) in measured equilibrium left ventricular ejection fraction at intervals of 15 min, 3 days, 1, 3, and 4 weeks were +/- 4, +/- 4, +/- 5, +/- 5, and +/- 6 units, respectively. The corresponding minimal detectable changes in a subject's "true" left ventricular ejection fraction for the same intervals were +/- 7, +/- 7, +/- 10, +/- 10, and +/- 12 units respectively. With first pass imaging, only average values for the variation at repeat determination could be calculated. The minimal significant change in measured first pass left ventricular ejection fraction was +/- 7 units, and the minimal detectable change in "true" left ventricular ejection fraction was +/- 14 units. Measurements of left ventricular ejection fraction by equilibrium technique were generally more reproducible than first pass determinations because the variability caused by study acquisition, observer analysis, and residual errors was smaller. The method of variance components appears to be well suited to the evaluation of quantitative biological measurements in clinical use. The popularity of established procedures may obscure the lack of basic information about method evaluation.
Flow cytometric DNA analysis of neuroblastoma and ganglioneuroma. A 10-year retrospective study.	Retrospective quantitative DNA analysis was done on 147 samples from 89 patients with neuroblastoma and ganglioneuroma using flow cytometry. In the neuroblastoma patients, nuclear DNA content was found to be a stable tumor marker irrespective of site (primary versus metastatic) and despite changes with time in tumor progression, maturation, or therapy. The occurrence of DNA aneuploidy, which was detected in 60% of the neuroblastoma patients, paralleled other favorable indicators and was highly associated with survival (P less than 0.001). Of clinical stage, age, primary site, sex, and DNA content, only stage and DNA content correlated with survival. Those patients with favorable stage and DNA aneuploidy had higher survival rates. Further, favorable stage and the presence of DNA aneuploidy were independent prognostic indicators. Abnormal DNA content was also detected in samples from ganglioneuromas in which significant numbers of ganglion cell nuclei were recovered. These results indicate a striking difference between neuroblastoma and adult tumors in which DNA aneuploidy is generally a poor prognostic sign and provide a molecular link between ganglioneuromas and their malignant counterparts.
Prognostic factors in head and neck melanoma. Effect of lesion location.	Cutaneous malignant melanomas of the head and neck are prognostically engimatic. In addition to known prognostic determinants of stage and lesion microstage, lesion location also appears to have prognostic importance. The authors have reviewed a series of 83 microstaged head and neck melanoma patients in order to analyze the relative importance of these factors. There were 36 males and 47 females with a median age of 56 years. Eighty-one percent had pathologic Stage I disease, 7% were Stage II, and 12% were Stage III. The primary location was face in 32 patients, neck in 18, ear in 12, and scalp in 21 patients. The actuarial 5-year survival according to lesion thickness was 86% for melanoma less than 1.0 mm, 56% for 1 to 2 mm thick lesions, 47% for 2.1 to 4 mm thick lesions, and 25% for melanomas greater than 4.0 mm. The 5-year survival according to lesion location was 78% for facial and 58% for neck melanomas; for ear and scalp, the respective survivals were 33% and 37%. Median thickness was 2.0 mm for facial and 1.85 mm for neck lesions. It was 2.7 mm for ear and 2.0 mm for scalp lesions (differences not significant). There were no microstage factors that correlated with the adverse prognosis seen with scalp and ear melanomas. Multivariate analysis in the entire series (all clinical stages) showed the following to be significant: stage, thickness, and location of the primary melanoma (all less than 0.0002). In clinical Stage I melanoma, the significant prognostic factors were location (P = 0.035), thickness (P = 0.008), level (P = 0.024), and ulceration (P = 0.035). The prognosis of head and neck melanoma is uniquely influenced by location of the primary lesions in addition to stage, thickness, level, and ulceration, as observed with other cutaneous melanomas at other sites. Ear and scalp melanomas are high-risk lesions whose poor prognosis is not readily explained by any of the microstage factors reviewed.
Clinical efficacy of dental radiography in the detection of dental caries and periodontal diseases.	This article reports the ability of dental radiographs to correctly detect evidence of dental caries and periodontal disease (sensitivity) and to correctly establish the absence of these diseases (specificity). The analysis used a unique data set that was collected as part of the Veterans Administration Dental Longitudinal Study in Boston. Periapical, panoramic, and posterior bitewing radiographs were independently compared with a consensus radiographic standard of all three radiographs read simultaneously. Findings showed that the sensitivities of all three radiographs to detect dental caries were lower than expected, at approximately 60%, whereas the sensitivities to detect evidence of periodontal disease averaged approximately 85%. Panoramic radiographs were substantially less sensitive for detecting dental caries than periapical and posterior bitewing radiographs, but no difference between these modalities was observed in the analysis of sensitivity to periodontal disease. The proportion of false-negative and false-positive readings from dental radiographs was substantial and requires further investigation.
Clinical and prognostic features of Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myelogenous leukemia.	Between 1965 and 1982, 105 patients with a diagnosis of Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myelogenous leukemia were referred to our institution with minimal or no prior therapy. The median age was 63 years and 64% were males. The overall median survival from time of referral was 14 months; 53% of patients survived 1 year and only 10% survived beyond 5 years. At the time of analysis, 92 patients (88%) were dead, 56% of deaths being preceded by a blastic crisis. Compared with Philadelphia chromosome-positive disease, patients with Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myelogenous leukemia were older and had a significantly higher incidence of anemia, thrombocytopenia, monocytosis, marrow blasts, decreased marrow megakaryocytes and a lower incidence of basophilia and thrombocytosis. Chromosomal abnormalities occurred in 33% of patients and consisted most frequently of trisomy 8, or an additional chromosome C, loss of the Y chromosome, or abnormalities in chromosomes #5 and #7. Of nine pretreatment characteristics significantly associated with poor survival, a multivariate analysis identified four to have independent additive prognostic significance: severe thrombocytopenia, hemoglobin levels less than 10 g/dl, increasing peripheral blasts and promyelocytes, and age 60 years or older. Monocytosis was not of prognostic significance. The derived prognostic model divided patients into three risk groups, low, intermediate, and high, with median survivals of 36, 16, and 3 months, respectively. The authors conclude that Philadelphia chromosome-negative chronic myelogenous leukemia is a distinct entity among the myeloproliferative syndromes with characteristic clinical and laboratory features and a poor prognosis. Prognostic factors and related risk categories were demonstrated within this disease entity.
Models for respiratory cancer in nickel refinery workers.	Lung and nasal sinus cancer death rates among employees of a nickel refinery in South Wales were examined from the standpoint of quantifying the relationship between exposure and the risk of these two cancers. Areas in the refinery associated with high risk were identified by using a matched case-control approach, and a simple index of exposure for each man was constructed accordingly based on the duration of time spent in these areas. The dependence of relative risk and absolute excess risk for lung and nasal sinus cancers on age at first employment, calendar period of first employment, time since first employment, and duration of exposure in high-risk areas was then analyzed. The relative risk for nasal sinus cancer increased sharply with increasing age at first exposure but remained roughly constant throughout the period of follow-up, while that for lung cancer was independent of age at first exposure and dropped sharply with increasing time since first employment. The implications and limitations of these analyses are discussed in relation to the multistage theory of carcinogenesis and occupational risk assessment.
Monte Carlo simulations on an equilibrium globular protein folding model.	Monte Carlo simulations were performed on a diamond lattice, globular protein model in which the trans conformational state is energetically favored over the gauche states (thereby perhaps favoring a beta-sheet secondary structure) and in which nonspecific nonbonded nearest-neighbor attractive interactions are allowed. If the attractive interactions are sufficiently weak that the molecule possesses a relatively high fraction of trans states in the denatured state, then on collapse, a beta-barrel tertiary structure, highly reminiscent of the "native" structure seen in beta-proteins, spontaneously forms. If, however, the attractive interactions are dominant, a coil-to-random globule collapse transition is observed. The roles of short-, medium-, and long-range interactions and topological constraints in determining the observed tertiary structure are addressed, and the implications and limitations of the simulations for the equilibrium folding process in renal globular proteins are explored.
Competing-risk analysis of leukemia and nonleukemia mortality in X-irradiated, male RF mice.	The theory of competing risks, extended by the addition of several newly defined estimators, was applied to the analysis of mortality data for acutely X-irradiated, male RF mice, in which the cause of each death was assigned to one of four categories: myeloid leukemia (M), thymic lymphoma (T), lymphosarcoma and reticulum cell sarcoma (L), and all remaining causes (R), Doses from 0 to 450 rads were delivered within two age ranges: A) 5-6 weeks and B) 9-10 weeks, to give 11 treatment groups totaling 2,073 mice. The data were analyzed in terms of: 1) the nonparametric, Kaplan-Meier (K-M) adjusted survival function; 2) its logarithmic transform, the cumulative force of mortality (cumFM) function; 3) a disease model called "early terminating," applied to causes M and T; and 4) a "late-terminating" model, applied to causes L and R. For any given cause and group, two estimators were used, which measured, respectively: a) the relative lateness of the corrected (or adjusted) time course and b) the relative corrected incidence. For causes M and T, these were: a) the mean age of the force of mortality distribution (MAF), or corrected mean latent period; and b) the final cumFM. For causes L and R, the estimators were: a) the adjusted mean age at death (adjMAD), given an upper limit (as %) of adjusted mortality (adjMAD, 50% for L; adjMAD, 100%--the K-M estimator--for R) and b) the cumFM at a cutoff time of 640 days. For causes M and T, the MAF values showed highly significant decreases of the latent periods with dose, through 300 rads. The final cumFM data showed a marked increase of corrected incidence with dose, for both M and T. In addition, the data for cause M were consistent with a three-parameter, leukemogenic cell model that incorporated two opposing radiation effects: leukemogenic cell potentiation and cell killing. For cause R, the adjMAD, 100% data showed a general decrease with dose and considerable scatter. For cause L, the adjMAD, 50% values showed: for treatment A, a gradual decrease with dose through 300 rads; for treatment B, a highly significant drop for 150 rads, with little change for higher doses. The cumFM, 640-day values for both L and R showed a general increase of corrected incidence with dose. The mortality curves for all causes combined showed the expected life shortening, i.e., decreases of the mean age at death with dose, in the 0- to 300-rad range. In addition, the standard deviations of the mortality curves were significantly less for animals irradiated at age range B than at age range A, for each of the doses--150, 300, and 450 rads.
Evaluation of the Bergen cephalometric norms: a radiological and statistical appraisal.	The normal values of the angular radiographic cephalometric measurements in the Bergen analysis, the so called orthognathic combinations, were compared with the associations between these measurements obtained from two population samples. The original sample of the study consisted of 55 untreated orthodontic patients aged 7-14 years and with Angle's Class I malocclusion. Additional data were obtained from Solow's study on young male adults. The comparison indicated differences between the Bergen acceptable combinations and the population estimates. The Bergen norms seemed to be constructed partly on the basis of solely topographical correlations. Therefore, it can be claimed that Bergen cephalometric norms are more artificial than biological, because of which the clinical use of the Bergen analysis requires special caution.
Tumor markers in bronchogenic carcinoma. Superiority of tissue polypeptide antigen to carcinoembryonic antigen and carbohydrate antigenic determinant 19-9.	One hundred six patients with histologically proven bronchogenic carcinoma were tested for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), tissue polypeptide antigen (TPA), and carbohydrate antigenic determinant 19-9 (CA19-9). A total of 349 CEAs, 350 TPAs, and 317 CA19-9s were measured. In addition, sera were assayed from 57 patients with pulmonary benign diseases and their CEA, TPA, and CA19-9 levels were used as negative controls for specificity and accuracy. One hundred twenty healthy subjects provided our normal CA19-9 reference value. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were obtained for CEA, TPA, and CA19-9, respectively. Significant intermarker correlations were found both at diagnosis and during follow-up, CEA and CA19-9 being the most closely related substances. The percentage of patients with elevated levels of TPA increased significantly according to tumor load. Individual values of TPA related significantly to the stage of disease. Concentrations of CEA, TPA, and CA19-9 varied significantly during the course of the illness in relation to treatment response; however, TPA showed the closest relationship to the clinical status assessments of the follow-up period. Abnormal pretreatment levels of TPA were significantly associated with a poor outcome. Biomarker combinations were clinically evaluated by calculating the mean of the percentage of the reference value for each combined marker. Using this method, any association of TPA with CEA and/or CA19-9 revealed neither a greater diagnostic accuracy nor a more reliable predictive capacity for the above clinical variables than TPA evaluated on its own. The authors believe that a single TPA assay should be added to the initial and subsequent clinical assessments of patients with bronchogenic carcinoma.
An improved statistical method for the racial classification of man by means of palatal rugae.	A classification of human ruga pattern disclosed interracial differences between six population groups. The conventional statistical procedures of linear and quadratic discriminant function and nearest neighbour-point-method delivered overall correct classification figures of 49.2, 45.3 and 29.1 per cent respectively. The jackknife-classification matrix for the kernel-function method delivered an overall percentage correctly classified of 61.1 per cent with an individual group figure range correctly classified of 37-100 per cent. Although computationally elaborate, this technique has led to new insights into the data compared with parametric methods.
Prevalence of HIV antibodies in blood donors in the West Germany and West Berlin]	Since 1985 all donor blood in the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and West Berlin (WB) have been routinely tested for HIV antibodies. The blood donor services of the German and Bavarian Red Cross have pooled their anti-HIV test data for the first year of operation (July 1985-June 1986) to obtain information on the prevalence of HIV antibodies in blood donors and in donated blood. Of 2.27 million units of blood, donated by 1.33 million donors, 218 were anti-HIV positive in the Western Blot Test, i.e. a prevalence rate of 10 per 100,000 donors. The prevalence was, as expected, higher in males than females. During the test period the anti-HIV prevalence fell, both as a total and in all subpopulations. In the second quarter of 1986 it had decreased to 6 per 100,000 donated units.
Labor documentation system: a simplified method of documentation and quality control in obstetrics]	A simple on-line data collection system was developed for facilitating documentation and quality assessment in perinatal medicine. A microcomputer is used for acquisition of the most important obstetrical data. The system substitutes the handwritten birth notification form and permits automatic medical reporting. In addition an information system for day-to-day clinical routine is provided. Special programmes allow the compilation of statistical analysis as requested by the government as well as for internal quality assessment.
Early and late results of coronary endarterectomy. Analysis of 3,369 patients.	The effectiveness of coronary revascularization has been questioned in patients with diffuse coronary disease. Over a 14 year period (1970 to 1984), 30,464 patients underwent surgical revascularization at our institution. Coronary artery bypass alone was done in 27,095 patients and was combined with coronary endarterectomy in 3,369 patients (12.4%). Analysis of preoperative variables revealed an increased incidence of male sex, diabetes mellitus, low ejection fraction (less than 30) and multiple vessel disease in patients requiring endarterectomy. The early results after revascularization indicated a small increase in surgical risk after endarterectomy. The 30 day mortality for bypass alone was 2.6% versus 4.4% for coronary endarterectomy (p less than 0.01). Multivariate analysis identified independent predictors of operative risk: ejection fraction less than 30%, reoperation, age, absence of hyperlipidemia, endarterectomy, and female sex. Early mortality was significantly increased by endarterectomy in the left anterior descending coronary artery (8.5%) compared to endarterectomy in arteries other than the left anterior descending (4.2%) (p less than 0.01). In a sample of 4,473 patients, myocardial complications were also found to be increased after coronary endarterectomy. The incidence of perioperative myocardial infarction in patients undergoing bypass alone was 2.6% versus 5.4% for patients undergoing bypass plus endarterectomy (p less than 0.01). Both fatal and nonfatal cardiac arrests increased (bypass alone, 1.7%; endarterectomy, 3.5%; p less than 0.01). This suggests the failure mode of unsuccessful endarterectomy. Early mortality after coronary endarterectomy decreased substantially from 1970-1976 (6.4%) to 1977-1984 (3.5%; p less than 0.01). Actuarial analysis at 5 years and longer has shown very little difference in the long-term survival rate (coronary bypass, 90%; coronary endarterectomy, 86%), freedom from angina (coronary artery bypass, 58%; coronary endarterectomy, 52%), and freedom from reoperation (coronary artery bypass, 97%; coronary endarterectomy, 98%). Despite the small increase in surgical risk, the early and late results support the selective application of coronary endarterectomy in patients with diffuse distal disease and demonstrate the beneficial long-term effects.
A new assay for rapid measurement of MIF levels by 3H-labelled cells in liquid scintillation counting vials: statistical implications for the measurement of migration inhibition.	A new quantitative assay for migration inhibitory factor (MIF) employs 3H-labelled cultured mouse or human lymphoid cells migrating from capillary tubes. Capillaries filled with labelled cells are placed in liquid scintillation counting vials, along with the MIF-containing sample and are removed at the end of a five-hour incubation period. The residual, labelled cells which have migrated out of the tubes are solubilized and counted in a liquid scintillation counter. While cultured lymphoblast cells are routinely used in the assay, the method was checked against mouse and guinea pig peritoneal exudate cells in both the labelled cell technique and the conventional chamber assay. The assay is technically simple to perform and a useful tool for laboratory research purposes because of the short span of time needed to obtain the results. These advantages indicate a potential for automation and use of this assay in a clinical immunology laboratory. Statistical analysis of data from both assays demonstrated that the relative variation among replicates is lower in the labelled cell assay. The new assay also measured a significant difference between controls and MIF-containing samples when the migration index (MI) was greater than 80%. Criteria for significant inhibition of migration are discussed in regard to the use of analysis of variance (ANOVA) and other statistical procedures, and the inadequacy of a single measure, such as the MI, is discussed.
A critique of the collaborative cytogenetics study to measure and minimize interlaboratory variation.	A statistical reanalysis was performed on the data fecently reported on a 6-laboratory, collaborative cytogenetic study to measure and minimize interlaboratory variation. Three of the laboratories had mean values significantly different from the others on most of the 6 indexes of chemically-induced aberration; one laboratory with values higher and two with values lower. Furthermore, relative variability of the values around the means was consistently lower in one of the 6 participating laborabories. The results of the reanalysis of this collaborative study demonstrates that significant interlaboratory differences exist and that these should be adjusted or diminished before rat cytogenetic analysis can be an effective test system for evaluation of a compound for mutagenic potential.
Decreasing numbers of gastrointestinal studies: report of data from 69 radiologic practices.	A survey of the members of the Society of Gastrointestinal Radiologists was conducted to document changes in the numbers of gastrointestinal fluoroscopic procedures performed in the United States from 1975 through 1986. Data from 69 radiologic practices indicated that the numbers declined substantially. Decreases in the numbers of upper gastrointestinal examinations, small bowel studies, and barium enemas was 24%, 17%, and 29%, respectively. The number of oral cholecystograms declined 93%. Respondents listed the advent of new techniques (sonography, CT, and MR imaging) and competition from endoscopy as the two major factors that they thought contributed to these decreases. They thought that competition from endoscopy would be the factor most likely to affect the numbers of gastrointestinal fluoroscopic procedures in the near future.
Technetium-99m imaging of bone trauma: reduced sensitivity caused by hydrocortisone in rabbits.	This study evaluates the effect of hydrocortisone on the sensitivity of 99mTc-scintigraphy for the detection of bone trauma in three groups of rabbits: a control group that received no hydrocortisone, a low-dose group that received 0.8 mg/kg/day, and a high-dose group that received 20 mg/kg/day. Scintigrams of the tibial diaphyses were obtained at 48 hr, 1 week, 2 weeks, and 3 weeks after surgical creation of a simulated fracture (a 1.5-mm hole in the cortex). The mean sensitivity for detecting fractures in control animals was 95% at 48 hr and 100% at all other times. Mean sensitivity for rabbits given the high dose of hydrocortisone was 41% at 48 hr. Mean sensitivity for the low-dose group was 75% at 48 hr, but this was not significantly different from the control group. Sensitivity in both groups treated with hydrocortisone improved with time. At 3 weeks, the mean was 93% in the low-dose group and 83% in the high-dose group. These data suggest that 99mTc scintigraphy may be less sensitive in detecting bone trauma in patients on glucocorticoid therapy than in patients in the general population.
Big genes, little genes, affective disorder, and anxiety. A commentary.	This article offers a brief explanation of the methods used for studying the genetic epidemiology of psychiatric disorder and comments on three articles in this issue of the Archives. Although the methods have had success in detecting genes of major effect for enzymes involved in neurotransmitter synthesis and degradation, they have not produced compelling evidence for a major locus in affective disorder. At the same time, simpler modes of transmission do not fully explain familial data on bipolar disorder or early-onset unipolar disorder. The problem of familial comorbidity of anxiety and depression is discussed, and an illustration is given of how assumptions about psychiatric classification and familial models can obscure the issue of comorbidity.
Scaled subprofile model: a statistical approach to the analysis of functional patterns in positron emission tomographic data.	The data obtained from measurements of regional rCMRglu using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)/positron emission tomographic (PET) data contain more structure than can be identified with group mean rCMRglu profiles or regional correlation coefficients. This additional structure is revealed by a novel mathematical-statistical model of regional metabolic interactions that explicitly represents rCMRglu profiles as a combination of region-independent global effects, a group mean pattern and a mosaic of interacting networks. In its application to FDG/PET data, this model removes global subject effects [global scaling factors (GSFs)] and a group mean pattern (profile) so as to maximize statistical power for the detection and simultaneous discovery of all networks of two or more regions that form a significant and consistent linearly covarying pattern. The model approach presented here was applied to the combined rCMRglu data from 12 demented AIDS patients and 18 normal controls: Two significant metabolic covariance pattern descriptors that together accounted for 71 to 96% of the rCMRglu/GSF variation across subjects for 22/28 regions in the AIDS group were extracted. Each descriptor was found to be highly correlated with performance on several neuropsychological tests, providing independent validation of the analysis technique as a means of discovering and describing behaviorally related components of group rCMRglu profiles.
Head and trunk movement responses in healthy children to induced versus self-induced lateral tilt.	The purpose of our study was to determine head and trunk movement responses that occur in healthy 7-year-old children during induced and self-induced lateral tilt. Twenty subjects, while tailor sitting on a tiltboard, participated in three trials of both induced and self-induced left and right lateral displacements. Measurements of neck and trunk lateral flexion; trunk counterrotation; and neck, trunk, and body anterior-posterior movement were obtained from slide transparencies made at three stages of tilt (original position, initial tilt, and full tilt). For each subject in the two test conditions, changes in these measurements between the stages of tilt were determined and compared. Based on the results of multivariate analysis of variance procedures, we concluded that 1) a significant difference in trunk counterrotation existed between the two types of tilt, with the greatest degree of counterrotation occurring with induced displacement; 2) no significant difference existed in neck or trunk lateral flexion; and 3) no significant differences existed in neck, trunk, or body anterior-posterior movement between tilts. We also found that a wide variability of response existed among the children over the three testing trials. Clinical application of our results suggests that different and unique motor programs exist for automatic and willed balance responses. These differences should be considered when planning treatment strategies.
Prevalence of antibody to hepatitis B virus in foreign-born hospital employees.	Hepatitis B surface and core antibodies were measured in 512 community hospital employees at increased risk for developing infection with hepatitis B virus. Antibody was detected in 140 (27 percent) participants. Multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated that seropositivity was strongly associated with the prevalence of hepatitis B in an employee's country of birth and with age. These results suggest that reported differences among hospitals in hepatitis B seropositivity may in part be a reflection of the national origin of its employees. These data also indicate that each hospital should assess its own risk for hepatitis B infection and that prevaccination serologic testing is particularly worthwhile in hospitals having large numbers of foreign-born employees.
Evaluation of monoclonality of cell lines from sequential dilution assays.	The statistical framework necessary to analyze clonality following a two stage cloning procedure is described, and a simple table for determining the probability of monoclonality of derived cell colonies is presented. This statistical framework is designed for multistage cloning procedures and is an extension of the usual Poisson analytic technique.
Statistical evaluation of prognostic factors in ALL and treatment results.	Prognostic factor evaluation is a frequent and desirable investigative activity in clinical trials. Nevertheless, a number of errors in the evaluation of such factors occur quite commonly. Many of these problems are due to inappropriate statistical interpretation of the analyses that are conducted. A detailed discussion of several problem areas is given. In the area of childhood ALL trials, issues related to the appropriate choice of disease end-points for analysis of prognostic factors are discussed.
Bedside diagnosis of cardiac autonomic damage by computerized analysis of heart rate-respiration relationship.	In this study we propose a method for the analysis of the relationship between heart rate changes and respiration as a possible diagnostic tool for cardiac autonomic damage. The method consists in recording R-R intervals and respiratory amplitude by a suitably equipped personal computer, and by evaluating the cross-correlation peak between the two signals. This mathematical function appeared to be more sensitive to the degree of concordance between the two signals, rather than their absolute amplitude. The cross-correlation appeared to be lower in diabetics with autonomic dysfunction, markedly decreased after injection of atropine (only in normals), slightly increased after propranolol. Hyperpnea increased the cross-correlation peak between 3-18 breaths/min in normals, but only at lower frequencies, if at all, in diabetic subjects with various degrees of autonomic dysfunction. The cross-correlation showed the best reproducibility among R-R change tests. These preliminary results suggest that this method may provide new information on autonomic integrity and a substantial advantage in terms of reproducibility.
Need for improved instrument and kit evaluations.	A review of method comparison studies published in the American Journal of Clinical Pathology indicates that hematology evaluations are less rigorous than their chemistry counterparts and rely heavily on the correlation coefficient. While clinical chemistry evaluations depend more on linear regression, they tend to omit relevant, lesser-known statistics, such as the standard error of the estimate. The authors reiterate guidelines for the collection and statistical analysis of method comparison data and recommend that both hematology and chemistry evaluations be improved.
The combined effects of protein deficiency and chronic ethanol administration on rat ethanol metabolism.	This investigation was performed to examine the combined effects of protein deficiency and chronic ethanol consumption on ethanol clearance and hepatic ethanol metabolism of the rat. Protein deficiency alone was associated with reduced ethanol clearance and decreased activity of hepatic alcohol dehydrogenase and the microsomal ethanol-oxidizing system. However, when ethanol (as 36% of energy) was administered concurrently with protein-deficient diets, accelerated ethanol clearance and increased microsomal oxidation of ethanol was observed. Furthermore, in protein-deficient animals fed ethanol, liver alcohol dehydrogenase levels were less decreased when compared with values observed in animals fed protein-deficient diets without ethanol, and this effect was associated with markedly reduced serum testosterone levels in the former group.
Medical care utilization by Hispanic children. How does it differ from black and white peers?	Factors associated with the utilization of medical care by Hispanic, black Non-Hispanic, and white Non-Hispanic children were analyzed using multivariate regression techniques on a Health Interview Survey sample. The findings indicate that Medicaid coverage was the sharpest enhancer of entry into care for Hispanics and blacks, contributing significantly to the amount of physician visits. While financial factors seemed more influential determinants of physician contacts for minorities, perceived health needs appeared to be important contributors to entry into health care for white children. Such differences reveal that important racial-ethnic disparities persist with respect to physician utilization among children. Improved insurance coverage for Hispanics, particularly children of Mexican origin, is suggested as an important intervention to facilitate access for this population.
Usual statistical methods for studying HLA-disease associations and linkages]	Statistical methods used for the study of correlation and/or linkage between HLA and diseases susceptibility will be different according to the aim of the study. In case of a search of an association between disease character and HLA markers in unrelated populations, the methodology used will be based upon chi square and Relative Risk. In case of linkage study: multiplex families with 2 or more patients bring the most informative data. In all cases, a particular attention must be paid to criteria used for selection of patients and controls, and for studies of linkage to the hypothesis concerning mode of inheritance and penetrance required by the model chosen.
Substantial benefits of tissue matching in renal transplantation.	The purpose of this study was to perform a rigorous statistical analysis of the benefits of HLA-A,B and DR matching in renal transplantation. Graft survival in 2282 first cadaver kidney transplants, recorded and followed up by the United Kingdom Transplant Service (UKTS), was analyzed using the piecewise proportional hazards regression method. The results show that substantial improvements in graft survival are obtained when there is DR compatibility and at most one A or B mismatch, but that there is little advantage in tissue matching unless this degree of matching can be attained. So far, few graft recipients have benefited substantially through tissue matching (24% of kidneys exchanged through UKTS in 1984). This is partly attributable to unresolved technical problems in DR typing. However simulations show that under ideal conditions, with a pool of 3000 patients awaiting transplantation, considerable improvements in graft survival can be obtained in over 60% of recipients.
Clinical and microbiologic risk evaluation for post-cesarean section endometritis by multivariate discriminant analysis: role of intraoperative mycoplasma, aerobes, and anaerobes.	The clinical and microbiologic risk factors for postpartum endometritis were studied prospectively in 77 patients undergoing cesarean section without antibiotic prophylaxis at Harbor-University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. Intraoperative cultures were obtained from the amniotic fluid, lower uterine segment, and abdominal wound for isolation of genital mycoplasmas, aerobes, and anaerobes. Postsection endometritis developed in 21 (27%) patients and was significantly associated with presence of either high-virulence bacteria (predominantly, coliforms, streptococci, anaerobic cocci, and bacteroides) (35% to 60% versus 10% to 24%; p less than 0.05) or Ureaplasma urealyticum (15% to 42% versus 0% to 10%; p less than 0.05) at any site compared with afebrile women. Multivariate analysis identified primary cesarean section, younger maternal age, presence of ruptured membranes, and presence of Ureaplasma as significant risk factors independent of other confounding variables (p less than 0.01). It is suggested that genital mycoplasmas could play a primary role in some cases of postsection endometritis or that they are cofactors or markers for the presence of other high-virulence aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.
Physical activity and the incidence of coronary heart disease.	Our review focuses on all articles in the English language that provide sufficient data to calculate a relative risk or odds ratio for CHD at different levels of physical activity. The inverse association between physical activity and incidence of CHD is consistently observed, especially in the better designed studies; this association is appropriately sequenced, biologically graded, plausible, and coherent with existing knowledge. Therefore, the observations reported in the literature support the inference that physical activity is inversely and causally related to the incidence of CHD. The two most important observations in this review are, first, better studies have been more likely than poorer studies to report an inverse association between physical activity and the incidence of CHD and, second, the relative risk of inactivity appears to be similar in magnitude to that of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and smoking. These observations suggest that in CHD prevention programs, regular physical activity should be promoted as vigorously as blood pressure control, dietary modification to lower serum cholesterol, and smoking cessation. Given the large proportion of sedentary persons in the United States (91), the incidence of CHD attributable to insufficient physical activity is likely to be surprisingly large. Therefore, public policy that encourages regular physical activity should be pursued.
Influence of daunorubicin and cytarabine sequencing on the outcome of therapy in acute myelogenous leukemia: a randomized trial.	Ninety-seven patients less than or equal to 70 years of age with previously untreated primary acute myeloblastic leukemia were randomly treated with either the DAT or TAD regimen: daunorubicin (70 mg/m2/day) administered on Days 1-3 (DAT) or 5-7 (TAD) of a 7-day sequence consisting of cytarabine (200 mg/m2/day) and 6-thioguanine (200 mg/m2/day). Complete responders received consolidation, maintenance, and final intensification over 14 months using mostly the same drugs as during induction and administered in the same sequence. The regimens did not significantly differ from each other with regard to toxicity or efficacy. Complete remission rate was 80% in the two groups, and median duration of complete remission was 549 days with DAT and 518 days with TAD.
A review of statistical methods for continuous monitoring of malformation frequencies.	Six statistical methods for monitoring of populations are reviewed with special reference to surveillance of congenital malformations. Their characteristics are compared; their relative efficiencies are assessed through both analytical and numerical comparisons. The cumulative sum technique appears to be convenient from most points of view; particular cases in which other methods may be preferred are discussed.
Beta-cell function and insulin sensitivity in nondiabetic HLA-identical siblings of insulin-dependent diabetics.	Insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity were compared in 12 HLA-identical siblings of insulin-dependent diabetics and nondiabetic controls. Only the maximum acute insulin response to intravenous arginine was lower in the siblings than in the matched controls (P less than .05); other measures of insulin secretion, including the acute insulin response to glucose or arginine, the second-phase insulin response to glucose, and the slope of glucose potentiation, were not significantly different. Insulin sensitivity, derived from an intravenous glucose tolerance test with a minimal-modeling technique, was lower in the siblings (P less than .01). In a large group of nondiabetic controls of various adiposity, insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity were inversely related. In view of the difference in insulin sensitivity between siblings and matched controls, a direct comparison of beta-cell function tests may be inappropriate, and the measures of insulin secretion were compared with those of nondiabetics when adjusted for differences in insulin sensitivity. This analysis revealed that all measures of insulin secretion were significantly lower in the siblings. We conclude that HLA-identical siblings of insulin-dependent diabetics show evidence of both insulin resistance and impaired beta-cell function and that analysis of beta-cell function in relation to insulin sensitivity shows a greater frequency of beta-cell secretory abnormalities than previously appreciated.
Factors affecting survival of children with malignant gliomas.	Fourty-four patients (23 male and 21 female, aged 2 to 20 years (mean, 9.6], harboring pathologically proven malignant glioma (Grades III and IV) were treated between 1976 and 1985. Tumor sites included the cerebral hemisphere (26 patients), thalamus (6 cases), brain stem (7 cases), and the cerebellum (5 cases). All patients underwent operation and initial treatment with steroids. Irradiation was given in 35 patients; 3 had adjuvant chemotherapy. At the time of study, 22 were deceased. The longest period of follow-up was 65 months. Survival curves were calculated from the date of the first visit to the date of the last evaluation or death. The mean survival times were 30 months for all patients, 14 months for cerebellar cases, 17 months for brain stem cases, 26 months for thalamic cases, and 33 months for cerebral hemisphere cases. However, the differences between mean survival times were not statistically significant. The patient's age was the single most significant factor, with those 5 to 10 years old having the worst survival curve (P = 0.0036). Irradiation was associated with an improved mean survival time (34 vs. 19 months); however, this was not statistically significant (P = 0.15). Girls had shorter mean survival times than boys (16.5 vs. 37 months, P = 0.0511). Otherwise, there was no clinical or radiological factor that indicated a better prognosis. This was also confirmed by chi 2 analyses comparing 72 factors between patients with more than 24 months of survival and those with less than 24 months of survival.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Behavioral differences between male and female Wistar rats in food rewarded lever holding.	Female rats are more active and explore more than males. In addition, females make fewer unreinforced responses on schedules which maintain low rates of responding (DRL). When general activity is high, subjects are more likely to engage in activities other than lever pressing. To test this hypothesis, male and female Wistar rats were trained to hold a response lever depressed for a minimum duration of 10 seconds. Reinforcement was delivered upon release of the lever. Females spent a significant smaller proportion of the total session time depressing the response lever than males. Differences between males and females in the number of unreinforced responses were not observed. Providing subjects with objects to promote collateral activities decreased the proportion of total session time subjects spent depressing the response lever for females, but not for males. An effect on the number of unreinforced responses was not observed.
Sex differences in response rates during random ratio acquisition: effects of gonadectomy.	Sex differences in response rates were observed during acquisition of behavior on different random ratio schedules of reinforcement. Intact male rats responded at higher rates than intact female rats. Response rates of castrated males were found to be lower than response rates of intact males. Differences were not observed between intact and ovariectomized females.
Mapping of jumping, rearing, squealing and switch-off behaviors elicited by periaqueductal gray stimulation in the rat.	Rats readily learn to escape from a stimulation applied to most mesencephalic periaqueductal gray (PAG) sites. In the present study, we tried to find out to what extent the differential effects induced by such stimulations actually reflect the existence of intraPAG functional subdivisions. To that end, a row of five electrodes was implanted into the PAG of each of 29 rats. Two kinds of effects were analyzed, the stimulation-elicited overt behaviors and the generalization of switch-off responding from one stimulation site to the others. Further, switch-off latency versus interpulse interval (IPI) relationships were established and both the threshold IPIs and the ceiling switch-off latencies were determined. The most commonly elicited behaviors (jumping, rearing and squealing) as well as the threshold IPIs and the ceiling switch-off latencies were mapped within the PAG. Switch-off behavior was elicited from all the stimulation sites studied. However, in the dorsal PAG the switch-off latency was found to decrease more steeply with decreasing IPI than it did in the ventral PAG. Switch-off generalization was less frequently observed between dorsally located stimulation sites. Jumps were most often elicited from dorsally and rostrally located PAG sites while squeals were more frequently elicited from the caudal part of the PAG and rearings from PAG subareas surrounding the aqueduct.
The validity of determining pancreatic cancer incidence in the United States by the use of mortality data.	To test the validity of using pancreatic cancer mortality as an indicator of incidence, mortality data for 1969-1971 were compared to incidence data for those areas covered by the Third National Cancer Survey, which was conducted during the same time period. Good correlation was found for whites but not for blacks. Small numbers of black study subjects in the Third National Cancer Survey probably influenced the incidence data for blacks. Pancreatic cancer mortality and incidence data for U.S. whites appear to be fairly accurate indicators of each other. The same cannot be said for the corresponding data for blacks. The pancreatic cancer mortality data from 1970 to 1978 for whites in the United States were analyzed to determine the current trend of the disease. In contrast to previously increasing rates, the age-adjusted rates for white females were determined to have leveled off, while the age-adjusted rates for white males appear to have started to decline slightly.
Hospital versus population referents in two case-referent studies.	In case-referent studies, the choice between hospital and population referents involves the consideration of nonresponse, information bias, and selection bias. A case-referent study of astrocytoma and one of pancreatic cancer used both hospital and population referents. In the present report the two series of referents were compared with regard to potential sources of systematic errors. There were differences in reported exposure between the hospital and population referents. These differences seemed to be due to differences in exposure experience ("selection bias") rather than to differences in the quality of reported information ("information bias"). This conclusion was based on two findings. First, in the comparison between the hospital and population referents, similar differences were found in the reported exposure for "hard" questionnaire items as for "soft" questionnaire items. Second, in a comparison between reported radiographs and radiographs according to medical records, the same differences were found for the two series of referents, although there was considerable underreporting of such exposure in both series. Nonresponse rates were somewhat higher among the population referents than among the hospital referents.
A rationale for the teaching of statistics to surgical residents.	The two aims of this study were to investigate the use of statistics in the surgical literature and to assess the degree of statistical comprehension possessed by graduating surgical residents. Two hundred journal articles were randomly selected from the 1984 issues of four surgical journals and were reviewed for statistical content. A classification of statistical techniques was created. A reader who has knowledge of descriptive statistics only has access to 44.5% of the articles. The addition of knowledge of t tests, contingency table analysis, other nonparametric techniques, and life table analysis to a reader's repertoire increases the access rate to 80.5%. The data indicate the specific statistical techniques that would best serve the surgeon who is attempting to increase access rate to the surgical literature. Ninety-one surgical residents in their fifth postgraduate year (PGY-5) responded to a questionnaire regarding their knowledge of statistics. While 90% of the respondents thought they would benefit from a course on statistics, 92% reported that they had received less than 5 hours of instruction in statistics during their residency. Both subjective self-ratings and objective testing revealed that the residents surveyed have a suboptimal knowledge of statistics. The results suggest the need for formal instruction in statistics during surgical residency.
Risk factors and prognosis after discharge for patients admitted because of suspected acute myocardial infarction with and without confirmed diagnosis.	The prognosis regarding cardiac events--acute myocardial infarction (AMI) or cardiac death after discharge--was evaluated in 257 patients admitted because of suspected AMI due to chest pain, but in whom AMI was not confirmed (non-AMI patients). The findings and patient prognoses were compared with those of 275 patients with confirmed AMI. All patients were younger than 76 years and free of severe chronic diseases, and no cause of chest pain other than possible ischemic heart disease was found. The patients were followed for cardiac events for 11 to 24 months (median 14). The prognoses for the non-AMI patients were significantly better than those for the AMI patients (p = 0.05). The proportion without a cardiac event after 1 year was estimated at 91% and 86%, respectively. In the non-AMI patients, angina pectoris, previous AMI and electrocardiographic changes on admission (intraventricular block and permanent or transient ST-T changes) were significant predictors of cardiac events by univariate and multivariate analysis. In the AMI patients, female gender, heart failure, previous AMI and angina pectoris were significant predictors of cardiac events by univariate analysis. With use of multivariate analysis, female gender, heart failure and angina pectoris were independent predictors of cardiac events. Thus, non-AMI patients admitted with chest pain have a high risk of cardiac events after discharge. The risk is highest when there is evidence of coronary artery disease (electrocardiographic changes on admission and angina pectoris or previous AMI.
Secular changes in early neonatal mortality in Norway, 1967-1981.	Two five-year cohorts, 1967-1971 and 1977-1981, of the Medical Birth Registry of Norway, were utilized to analyze secular trends in early neonatal mortality rates, controlling simultaneously for birth weight, parity, maternal age, and sex. Improvement in the crude early neonatal mortality rate, from 6.5 to 2.9 per 1,000, was partitioned into one portion (18.4%) attributable to changes in the distribution of the birth weight or the other independent variables and another portion (81.6%) attributable to improved survival within each specific subgroup in the multivariate table. The early neonatal mortality rate was found to decrease in all subgroups, the low birth weight groups showing a significantly greater decline than the normal birth weight groups. Women with diabetes, epilepsy, or blood group antibodies were studied in separate analyses. For women with diabetes, the odds ratio of the early neonatal mortality rate between the first and the second periods was found to be three times the odds ratio for women without diabetes, and 2.9% of the total improvement of the crude early neonatal mortality rate was attributable to an improved survival in these infants.
Sample sizes for estimation of exposure-specific disease rates in population-based case-control studies.	This paper discusses sample sizes for estimation of exposure-specific disease rates for population-based case-control studies. Neutra and Drolette's confidence limits, which are based on the approximate normality of the logarithm of the ratio of independent binomial exposure rates, are used to determine the sample sizes required for precise estimation of exposure-specific disease rates. It is shown that, for large sample sizes, the disease rate in the exposed population is more precisely estimated than the disease rate in the unexposed population when more than 50% of the cases are exposed, and that the converse is true when fewer than 50% of the cases are exposed. Expressions are derived for the optimal case and control sample sizes that ensure the required level of precision and minimize the total study size. The optimum control-to-case ratio is found to be equal to the square root of the exposure odds ratio. The optimum number of cases and the total study size are found to be smaller for precise estimation of the disease rate in the exposed population than for precise estimation of the exposure odds ratio when the disease is rare.
Comparative study of the Jordan left-right reversal test, the reversals frequency test, and teachers' observations.	The intertest pass/fail reliability of the Jordan left-right reversal test (JRT) and reversals frequency test (RFT) was compared on 510 "regular classroom" and 126 "learning handicapped" children. Children were divided into two age groups, 5 to 8 years and 9 to 13 years. Teachers completed a questionnaire assessing whether they felt a reversal problem existed. Statistical analysis showed low to moderate agreement between the pass/fail rate of the two tests (p less than 0.001) for both age groups of normal children; however, no statistical agreement was found for either age group of learning handicapped children. There was only very low agreement between the teacher's assessment of reversals and the pass/fail rates for both age groups of normals and the 9- to 13-year-old learning handicapped group. No agreement was found for the 5- to 8-year-old learning handicapped group. The effect of test design and recommendations for the clinical investigation of reversals are discussed.
Impact of influenza epidemics on mortality in the United States from October 1972 to May 1985.	Baseline levels of mortality in the United States in the absence of influenza epidemics were estimated using cyclical regression models applied to national vital statistics from October 1972 to May 1985. Models were developed by age and by region. Results from 1983 to 1985 are preliminary. More mortality than predicted by the theoretical baseline occurred during nine influenza seasons. Epidemics with high morbidity in children and young adults occurred in 1976/77 and 1978/79. Regional differences in the impact of influenza occurred occasionally. Total influenza-associated excess mortality in six epidemics from the winters of 1972/73 to 1980/81 was about 200,000. About 80-90 per cent of excess mortality occurred in persons over 64 years old.
Performance of screening and diagnostic tests. Application of receiver operating characteristic analysis.	Evaluation of psychiatric screening and diagnostic tests has benefited from the application of sensitivity, specificity, the kappa-statistic, and predictive values. These measures derive their meaning from a single criterion threshold. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis extends assessment of test performance by providing information about all possible pairs of achievable sensitivity and specificity values. The ROC analysis offers a comprehensive means for comparing different tests or different scoring procedures for one test. As a demonstration we used the ROC analysis to evaluate three types of scoring rules for one psychiatric test, the Health Opinion Survey. The demonstration indicated that ROC analysis can profitably take a place among the standard methods for test evaluation in psychiatric research. In addition, ROC analysis can assist clinicians in selecting appropriate test procedures for particular patient populations.
Influence of training and experience in fine-needle aspiration biopsy of breast. Receiver operating characteristics curve analysis.	In an effort to assess the influence of training and experience on the interpretation of fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) specimens, five observers with varying degrees of training and experience reviewed a series of 50 breast FNAB specimens. The cases selected were from the cytology registry of the University of California, San Francisco; all cases necessarily had histologic follow-up. By using receiver operating characteristics analysis, we were able to show that training and experience significantly influenced the interpretation of breast FNAB specimens. The two experts operated at a higher level of sensitivity and specificity than did three nonexperts. This study shows that training and experience are important in the interpretation of breast FNAB specimens. It also demonstrates the utility of receiver operating characteristics analysis in anatomic pathology.
Stroke treatment: comparison of integrated behavioral-physical therapy vs traditional physical therapy programs.	This was a controlled study of the efficacy of two forms of therapy on upper limb functions of hemiparetic patients--one heavily behavioral and the other based on Bobath therapeutic exercises. It arose from an earlier pilot study comparing EMG biofeedback with physical therapy from which it was concluded that both the elapsed time since the acute stroke and the severity of residual disability were particularly important factors. Of 29 patients included and randomly assigned to one or the other heavily systematized therapies, 18 were classified as having early-severe and 11 as late-mild conditions. Multiple function tests by a "blinded" special technician in another location revealed that overall both forms of therapy obtained worthwhile clinical and statistical improvement, which was maintained at nine-month recheck testing; but there was no statistically significant superiority of one therapy over the other under the very specific circumstances of the research design. Ease of delivering care and other socioeconomic considerations become important factors in choosing either or both of these methods.
Thermographic correlates of chronic pain: analysis of 125 patients incorporating evaluations by a blind panel.	Series of thermograms from 125 sequential participants were analyzed to determine the usefulness of thermography as a tool for evaluating chronic pain. The stability and symmetry of thermographic patterns over time among both healthy subjects and subjects whose pain remained at the same intensity across several recordings were found to be both high and consistent. This was true only if sensitivity was limited to no greater than 0.5C per color band. Greater sensitivity resulted in the creation of inconsistent asymmetrical patterns among healthy and pained subjects. Thermograms were evaluated by the authors' statistical analysis of the heat patterns and by a ten-member panel of scientists. They found thermography an excellent tool for monitoring changes in pain related to variations in near surface blood flow, such as those occurring during a sympathetic block. It was excellent for relating changes in near surface blood flow to changes in phantom limb pain intensity. There was a good relationship between changes in pain intensity and changes in symmetry of heat patterns for most of the disorders examined. Thermography had mixed usefulness in differentiating pain-free from pained subjects reporting knee pain (test efficiency, 98%), leg pain, and back pain (efficiency, 56%). It consistently indicated painful areas among patients with spinal cord injury.
Bacteriuria with fever after spinal cord injury.	Urinary tract infection continues to be a common problem among spinal cord injured (SCI) individuals despite the strides that have been made during the last decade in the care of the neurogenic bladder. A critical analysis of the system of drainage compared with the occurrence of bacteriuria with fever (BWF) is reported in a group of 705 SCI patients. At the first year (year 1) follow-up, patients being catheterized by someone else (ICO) were much more likely to have experienced at least one episode of BWF than those on self-intermittent catheterization (SIC) (p less than 0.025) or those using an indwelling catheter (IND) (p less than 0.005). In patients who underwent external sphincterotomy, the incidence of BWF was significantly decreased in year 1 (p less than 0.025) compared to those on ICO.
Isokinetic and isometric testing of knee musculature in patients with rheumatoid arthritis with mild knee involvement.	This study sought to determine if weakness and poor endurance of quadriceps and hamstring muscles are present in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with minimally involved knees; determine if there is an abnormal hamstring/quadriceps ratio or abnormal torque curves in RA patients; and begin to evaluate the feasibility of isokinetic (IK) exercise in RA patients. Sixteen RA patients with minimally involved knees and 16 matched control subjects were tested bilaterally with a Cybex II dynamometer. Torque values in the RA group were significantly less (78% for isokinetic and 81% for isometric). The hamstring/quadriceps torque ratio was significantly higher in the RA patients than in the controls: 66.8% vs 61.7%. There was no significant difference in endurance between the two groups. In the RA patients the angle at which peak torque occurred shifted later in the range of motion (37.4 degrees) compared with the control subjects (28.7 degrees). Except for IK torque of hamstring muscles in the control group, there was no significant difference in the torque values between the right and left sides in RA patients or control subjects. The findings suggested that even in RA patients with minimally involved joints, muscle weakness was present; exercise of quadriceps should be emphasized since in RA patients quadriceps were weaker than hamstrings; and isokinetic testing is feasible in selected patients with RA.
Death from uveal melanoma. Number of epithelioid cells and inverse SD of nucleolar area as prognostic factors.	Criteria for the Callender classification of uveal melanoma are subjective and lead to variations among observers of the same tumor. Two other measures for cell type-the number of epithelioid cells per high-power field (Epi/HPF) and the inverse SD of nucleolar area (ISDNA)-were evaluated as prognostic factors for survival following enucleation for uveal melanoma in 232 patients. Variables significantly related to the number of Epi/HPF were related to ISDNA. Larger, more anteriorly located tumors had a high number of Epi/HPF and a low ISDNA. The two measures were also correlated. Using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, both measures were related to tumor deaths. Worse prognosis was associated with a higher number of Epi/HPF and a lower ISDNA. Considered together in Cox' proportional hazards analysis, both measures independently predicted outcome. Separately, each measure predicted uveal melanoma-related deaths, in combination with largest tumor dimension, invasion of tumor to the line of transection, and location of the anterior tumor margin. Although ISDNA is the more objective measure of cell type, its practicality compared with other measures of cell type must also be considered.
A trial linkage of the road accident and vehicle registration files.	Vehicle characteristics are of importance in all phases of road accident. None, however, are recorded by the police on the road accident registration form in The Netherlands. By linking the Vehicle Registration file to the Road Accident file a number of important vehicle characteristics can be added to the accident record. Theoretically it had to be possible to link both files because there was a common key variable viz. the vehicle registration number, which in The Netherlands is unique and stays with the vehicle its whole life. The test linkage was aimed at determining whether it was also practically possible. It was furthermore aimed at determining the completeness and reliability of both files. The fatal accidents of 1981 were selected to serve for the test because only fatal accidents are completely recorded, and 1981 was the most recent available year at the time. These limitations made it possible for SWOV to carry out a manual control on vehicle make and model, as this is often recorded by the police. Based on the conformity found, the validity of the linking by vehicle registration number was found to be 94% and the reliability at least 95%. The conclusion is therefore that the linkage can be accomplished in practice and that it reliably adds useful vehicle characteristics to the police records on fatal road accidents. This complementary information is in the first place important for deeper analysis of the relationship between, on the one hand, accident and injury characteristics and, on the other hand, the vehicle characteristics.
Classification of the peripubertal stage of ontogeny in girls: a multivariate statistical solution]	Using the cluster analysis of objects in the space of physique factors the objective classification of peripubertal stage of ontogenesis in girls has been constructed. The factors were obtained by factor analysis of 26 anthropometric traits from a joint sample of girls aged 7 to 17 years. Four age groups (7-9, 10-11, 12-13, 14-17 years) distinguished by the factors and by the informative criteria of physique in total have been picked out. The diagnostic ability of the linear discriminant functions constructed by the stepwise discriminant analysis averages 80.0%. This level is in the limits determined in resolving problems of classification by using the anthropometric traits.
Resolvability of fluorescence lifetime distributions using phase fluorometry.	The analysis of the fluorescence decay using discrete exponential components assumes that a small number of species is present. In the absence of a definite kinetic model or when a large number of species is present, the exponential analysis underestimates the uncertainty of the recovered lifetime values. A different approach to determine the lifetime of a population of molecules is the use of probability density functions and lifetime distributions. Fluorescence decay data from continuous distributions of exponentially decaying components were generated. Different magnitudes of error were added to the data to simulate experimental conditions. The resolvability of the distributional model was studied by fitting the simulated data to one and two exponentials. The maximum width of symmetric distributions (uniform, gaussian, and lorentzian), which cannot be distinguished from single and double exponential fits for statistical errors of 1 and 0.1%, were determined. The width limits are determined by the statistical error of the data. It is also shown that, in the frequency domain, the discrete exponential analysis does not uniformly weights all the components of a distribution. This systematic error is less important when probability and distribution functions are used to recover the decay. Finally, it is shown that real lifetime distributions can be proved using multimodal probability density functions. In the companion paper that follows we propose a physical approach, which provides lifetime distribution functions for the tryptophan decay in proteins. In the third companion paper (Alcala, J.R., E. Gratton, and F.J. Prendergast, 1987, Biophys. J., in press) we use the distribution functions obtained to fit data from the fluorescence decay of single tryptophan proteins.
The bioavailability of oral nifedipine formulations: a statistical and simulation approach.	The bioequivalence of three oral forms of nifedipine was assessed in a triple crossover study on 12 healthy volunteers. Single 10 mg dose was given and ten blood samples were drawn during the first 8 h after administration. Highly sensitive gas chromatographic method was used for the nifedipine assay. Pharmacokinetic parameters which describe bioavailability and general kinetic behaviour of the drug (AUC, Cmax, tmax, beta, MRT) were calculated from individual plasma profiles. They were subjected to statistical analysis (paired t-test, Hauck's inverted t-test, and Westlake's method of confidence intervals). Analogue-hybrid simulation and identification was used to generate plasma profiles of nifedipine after single and multiple dosing. Averaged plasma concentrations were used for this purpose. The three formulations studied were bioequivalent in terms of the rate of absorption. The simulation proved to be an efficient tool to substitute in vivo multiple dosing studies for assessment of bioavailability. The specific statistical methods should be preferred in bioequivalence data evaluation due to their greater power and inclusion of extraneous bioequivalence limits interval. Despite the differences among the formulations studied, each one of them should be viewed according to its intended clinical use.
Selection factors in clinical trials: results from the Community Clinical Oncology Program Physician's Patient Log.	Between August 1984 and November 1985, data concerning 44,156 newly diagnosed cancer patients were entered in the Community Clinical Oncology Program Physician's Patient Log. Forty percent (17,773 patients) had a National Cancer Institute-approved protocol available for site and stage of disease. Fifty-six percent of patients with a protocol available were clinically eligible and 19% were entered on protocol. Thus, one-third of clinically eligible patients were entered in the study. Age was a major factor influencing eligibility and entry on study. Eighty percent of patients less than 25 years of age with a protocol available were clinically eligible for clinical trials participation, and 58% were placed on protocol. Patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age with a protocol available were less likely to be clinically eligible (48%) or placed on study (14%). A physician's preference for an alternate treatment and patient refusal for protocol treatment were also important reasons that clinically eligible patients were not registered on protocol. Selection for clinical trials participation affects the characteristics of patients under study and may have an impact on the ability to generalize the results of clinical trials.
Demonstration of a schedule-dependent therapeutic synergism utilizing the interacting drugs methotrexate and teniposide in L1210 leukemia.	When three variables require simultaneous adjustment for treatment optimization, the experimental determination of the optimum treatment becomes more complicated than generally appreciated, especially when one variable is the interval between drug administrations. Molecular pharmacological studies at this institution suggest that teniposide, in doses that are achievable in vivo, blocks methotrexate efflux from cells, enhancing formation of methotrexate polyglutamates which are active retentive forms of the drug. Hence, the combination might show a synergistic effect if teniposide is given at an appropriate time in relation to administration of methotrexate. This paper considers the problem of estimating the optimal dose levels and timing of administration of these drugs in B6D2F1 mice bearing L1210 leukemia in vivo as a model for the analysis of multidrug regimens when time and dose are variables. Because of the complexity of these experiments, an adaptive approach was applied. Three cycles of treatment were given using methotrexate at 0-400 mg/kg, teniposide at 0-60 mg/kg, and an interval of 0-54 hours between the two drugs. The single drugs prolonged median survival up to 24 days under the conditions of these experiments. The combination given simultaneously resulted in median survival of up to 33.5 days, while use of an appropriate interval between drugs prolonged median survival to greater than 50 days. An analysis of the underlying dose-time response gives a much better appreciation of the relationships among the variables. The concept that optimal doses included less methotrexate and more teniposide as the interval between drugs is increased was developed only through modeling. This finding is critical in demonstrating the importance of including all nonnegligible variables in the experimental design if the results are to be considered valid. Confidence regions about the optimum dose and about the response at the optimum provide a sound basis for a claim of therapeutic synergism as demonstrated by use of a scheduling variable in the experiment design. A nonproportional hazards analysis permits the conclusion of nonproportionality and emphasizes the contribution of methotrexate to optimal short-term survival (15-24 days) and teniposide to long-term survival (24-39 days).
Force, velocity, and power changes during normal and potentiated contractions of cat papillary muscle.	The instantaneous force-velocity relations of cat papillary muscles were studied at different times in the twitch in normal and in postextrasystolic potentiated contractions. Fourteen to sixteen different loads were used to define each of the force-velocity curves. The curves were fitted by a least-squares procedure to the hyperbolic (Hill equation). The hyperbolae were extrapolated to obtain maximum velocity and isometric force and interpolated to obtain maximum power. All three of these values rose more quickly than developed force. Maximum velocity reached 77% of its peak at the earliest time studied, 20-25% of the time to peak force. Developed force achieved 22% of its final value at this time, while extrapolated isometric force and maximum power both reached 44% of their peak values. Postextrasystolic potentiation sufficient to produce a 1.5 to twofold increase in peak developed force produced less than a 20% increase in extrapolated maximum velocity. The results can be interpreted in terms of a model in which the maximum velocity of the contractile elements remains constant during the twitch. Variation in maximum velocity is attributed to a small internal load, equivalent to 6% of twitch force. Since maximum velocity is relatively constant, it does not give a good measure of changes in the force-velocity curves. By contrast, the extrapolated isometric force and maximum power are much more sensitive to changes in the force-velocity curves, and they vary in proportion to each other. The advantage of using interpolated maximum power rather than isometric force to define changes in the curves is that it can be normalized to muscle mass.
On multiparameter data analysis in flow cytometry.	Increasing numbers of parameters that are accessible to simultaneous measurement in flow cytometric instruments, combined with the extremely large sample sizes common in flow cytometry, make it necessary to examine methods of multivariate statistics for their applicability to problems of visualization and quantitative analysis of flow cytometric data. This article describes some approaches to dimensionality reduction that appear well suited for data sets obtained by flow cytometry.
DNA ploidy and survival in breast cancer patients.	Flow cytometric DNA ploidy measurements using frozen or deparaffinized tumor specimens were performed on 565 primary breast cancers from patients treated in the period 1975-1984. Twenty-nine percent of the cases were diploid, 61% had a single aneuploid stemline, and 10% were multiploid. Aneuploid tumors more often had negative estrogen receptor values than diploid tumors, but no significant correlation was found between ploidy class and TNM stage. Patients with more than ten positive axillary lymph nodes had predominantly aneuploid tumors. Overall and distant relapse-free survival were higher for patients with diploid tumors and low-aneuploid tumors. Stratification of the patients according to degree of lymph node involvement, TNM stage, and menopausal stage showed that the prognostic effect of aneuploidy was apparent predominantly in patients with locally advanced disease. Postmenopausal node-positive patients with diploid tumors had a significantly better prognosis than those with aneuploid tumors, but this difference was not found for the comparable premenopausal group. Multivariate analysis with the Cox proportional hazards model indicated that ploidy is an additional, independent prognostic factor in postmenopausal patients.
Adjusting for confounded variables: pulmonary function and smoking in a special population.	Confounded variables present an obstacle to valid inference in many environmental and occupational studies. We describe a series of procedures that we used to address this problem in a study of pulmonary function and smoking. Subjects were drawn from the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT), a prospective study of coronary heart disease. Confounding of smoking, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia was designed into the trial and was beyond the control of our ancillary study. We used statistical techniques to detect and characterize the pattern of confounding, identify important variables affecting pulmonary function, and perform appropriate adjustments for extraneous influences (i.e., other than smoking). Among the techniques we used were factor analysis, stepwise multiple regression, and bootstrap replication. Analysis of the adjusted pulmonary function measurements showed that they were satisfactorily standardized and free of artifact. Moreover, use of the adjusted values sharpened our statistical results concerning smoking, the ultimate object of the study. We contrast the use of external and internal standards and discuss methods for detecting, ruling out, or counteracting confounding.
Use of cell cultures in the pharmacological experiment]	A statistical method is proposed which makes it possible to evaluate quantitatively the significance and reliability of the effects of pharmacological agents during their study on cell cultures using a little scope of material samples. The method substantially reduces the expenditures of the researcher's time and labour.
Test-retest variability of auditory event-related potentials.	Auditory event-related potentials (ERP, P3 components) were recorded from normal young adult subjects (17 to 37 yr) during two sessions scheduled 1 to 2 weeks apart. The test-retest intrasubject variability and the intersubject variability of the latency and amplitude values of components N1, P2, and P3 were investigated and analyzed. Between subjects, there was no evidence of systematic age-related changes of component latencies and amplitudes: the latency of P2 came closest to exhibit such an effect. Within subjects, there were no statistically significant changes of component latencies and amplitudes between test and retest, although ERP component latencies tended to be reduced on retest, especially the latency of P3.
Improving behavior observation audiometry testing and scoring procedures.	The need exists for improving behavioral testing of low-functioning children, particularly profoundly involved multiply handicapped children. In this study, behavior observation audiometry (BOA) was modified for systematic evaluation of childrens' responses to sound without observer bias. The data were analyzed statistically and a minimum response level was computed. This BOA technique was used to test the hearing of 82 profoundly involved handicapped children. Results suggested that BOA can be helpful in evaluating the hearing of low-functioning children.
Optimal thresholds, sensitivity, and specificity of long-term pH-metry for the detection of gastroesophageal reflux disease.	Long-term esophageal pH-metry has become the preferred test to quantify acid gastroesophageal reflux, but its accuracy in separating physiologic from pathological reflux is not well defined. To establish optimal thresholds of 24-h pH-metry, we studied 45 patients with clinically proven gastroesophageal reflux disease and 42 healthy volunteers. Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH was measured while the subject was ambulatory, using a combined glass electrode connected to a portable recorder. Percentage of time with esophageal pH less than 4, the number and mean duration of reflux episodes, the number of episodes lasting longer than 5 min, and the duration of the longest episode were calculated for periods of upright and supine body position, respectively. Discriminant analysis and receiver-operating-characteristic analysis were used to define optimal thresholds. A maximum of sensitivity (93.3%) and specificity (92.9%) was obtained using receiver-operating-characteristic analysis with the following criteria. Only percentage of time with esophageal pH less than 4 is considered. A subject is classified as "normal" if both values for the upright and supine body position are below the thresholds, otherwise the subject is classified as "pathological." The thresholds are 10.5% of time with esophageal pH less than 4 for the upright position and 6.0% for the supine position. Within the limits of this retrospective study, it is concluded that rather simple criteria yield a high diagnostic accuracy in the evaluation of long-term esophageal pH-metry. Nevertheless, a prospective and independent confirmation of these criteria is needed.
Genetic etiology of gastric carcinoma: II. Segregation analysis of gastric pH, nitrate, and nitrite.	A study of gastric pH, nitrate, and nitrite in 110 families collected as part of a cohort from the Narino region of Colombia is presented. All three traits are familial and have a significant linearly increasing age trend. Gastric pH has a clear bimodal distribution but does not show Mendelian segregation. The nitrate distribution is slightly skewed, but generational heterogeneity explains the data best. Gastric nitrite is also biomodal with a clear break at concentration 1.08 micrograms/ml, and 74% of the observations at zero concentration; it shows a recessive Mendelian segregation with significant residual spouse correlation. This model also fits the data best when nitrite is dichotomized into detected (measurable) and undetected values. The estimated frequency of the recessive allele is .57, so that an estimated 32% of the population sampled are recessives. Recessives whose spouses have measurable nitrite have an estimated penetrance of 99.3% at age 30 years, whereas those whose spouses have zero or undetected nitrite have a penetrance of only 8.8% at age 30 years. It appears that gastric nitrite, and, from our previous study of these families, chronic atrophic gastritis are important biologic markers for the early identification of persons predisposed to gastric cancer.
A Monte Carlo evaluation of three statistical methods used in path analysis.	Results of a Monte Carlo study to investigate the properties of three statistical methods used extensively in path analysis of family data are presented. All three methods are based on the maximum likelihood principle and involve the assumptions of multivariate normality and large sample (asymptotic) statistical properties. The methods differ, however, in the specification of the likelihood function. Given a set of correlation estimates, method 1 maximizes the likelihood function under the stipulation that the estimates are independent. Method 2 differs from the former by allowing for covariances among the correlation estimators. Method 3 involves (direct) maximization of the likelihood function for the individual family observations assuming multivariate normality for the vector of family observations. The Monte Carlo study investigated validity of the test statistics and confidence intervals and evaluated the relative efficiency and bias of the parameter estimates based on 1,000 replications of each of several simulation conditions. The effects of violating the two basic assumptions, multivariate normality and asymptotic theory, were investigated by comparing results for non-normally vs normally distributed family data and for small vs large sample sizes. It is shown that method 3 provides valid statistical inferences under multivariate normality and that it is generally robust against minor departures from normality. Method 2 is also robust against minor deviations from normality, but it is sensitive to small sample sizes. Method 1 yields highly conservative test statistics under all conditions studied.
Nonrandom sampling in human genetics: skewness and kurtosis.	When a multivariate normal sample is chosen from a truncated space of one of its components one can no longer make use of the normality assumption for the sample observations or for the estimates derived from them. In this paper, skewness and kurtosis for each component are derived analytically under a broad class of nonrandom sampling. It is shown that the distortions in skewness and kurtosis produced by nonrandomness are negligible, except those for the component with respect to which the selection of sampling regions is based. The usual tests of normality from sample values of skewness and kurtosis measures remain valid under nonrandom sampling, except for the selection variable. The implications of these analytical results in the context of commingling analysis in genetic epidemiology are discussed. It is recommended that when samples of families are obtained through nonrandomly ascertained probands, a commingling analysis should treat each relative class separately, since such analyses based on the pooled sample of individuals may involve unspecified bias in the levels of the test procedure.
Seventh-grade cigarette, alcohol, and marijuana use: distribution in a north central U.S. metropolitan population.	Tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use were examined in a seventh-grade population from a north central U.S. metropolitan community. Participation exceeded 94% and biological testing was used to increase the disclosure of drug use during the survey. Drug use was related to age, gender, race, family structure, and parental occupation in a series of logit analyses to identify high-risk groups. While univariate analyses uniformly supported earlier studies, the logit analyses revealed patterns not previously reported and at times contrary to previous reports. Significant associations were observed between drug use and each of the demographic factors; the likelihood of drug use increased by as much as 80-fold in subgroups defined by interactions among these variables. Native Americans, Hispanics, Black females, and adolescents whose mothers held white-collar jobs were substantially more likely to report drug use compared to other groups; females were generally similar to males in their level of use after adjustment for other factors. These results suggest that multivariate analyses which consider higher-order interactions may more adequately model the distribution of drug use in adolescent populations, compared to those based on univariate or first-order multivariate techniques.
Survival analysis in drug program evaluation. Part II. Partitioning treatment effects.	Survivorship analysis is applied to both a summative process (during treatment) and a summative outcome (after discharge) evaluation comparing data obtained from 297 admissions to multiple-site methadone maintenance programs in three California counties. Measures included rates of retention, incarceration, addiction, crime, dealing, and loss of employment. In order to take full advantage of the multiple outcome measures that were used, a method for within-subject simultaneous consideration of all outcome measures is presented. This method is an adaptation of the Friedman nonparametric analysis of variance and a Bonferroni post hoc comparison of the mean ranks.
The trait and method components of ratings of conduct disorder--Part II. Factors related to the trait component of conduct disorder scores.	A theoretical model designed to estimate the associations of variables of interest with the trait component of maternal and teacher ratings of conduct disorder is outlined. This model was applied to data collected in a birth cohort of New Zealand children. The analysis showed marked differences between the correlations for various measures and observed conduct disorder scores and the corresponding correlations with the estimated trait components of these scores. In some cases correlations increased as a result of correction for measurement error whereas in other cases correlations declined as a result of correction for the effects of method factors.
Clinician decisions and computers.	The clinician's decisions are subject to numerous distorting influences. Computer decision aids can help avoid these distortions by placing the clinician's limited personal experience into broader perspective through comparison with a larger repository of clinically relevant information; by making explicit the assumptions implied by his or her decisions; and by alerting the clinician whenever the decisions made do not appear consistent with these assumptions, with the available information or with the conventional rules of logic. Practical standards of performance with respect to the development, validation and clinical application of these decision aids are still in evolution, however, and a variety of ethical and legal issues have yet to be addressed. Despite the promise of computer decision aids, it remains to be seen whether their diffusion into medical practice will improve the quality and cost of health care.
Atypical form of X-linked proximal pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy.	A series of 95 families, consisting of 317 patients with severe and mild X-linked proximal pseudohypertrophic muscular dystrophy (MD), was analysed by the use of two different and rigid clinical criteria based on the age when the patient became chairbound. Using these criteria the families from Erfurt and Warsaw could be clearly separated into classical Duchenne (DMD) and classical Becker (BMD) type patients. A third group of patients was found with atypical clinical course, who could not be identified as neither Duchenne nor Becker cases. Statistically highly significant differences were found between the groups of classical DMD and atypical MD cases on the one hand and between the groups of atypical MD and classical BMD cases on the other, especially with respect to age when chairbound and age at death. The comparisons of progression of the disease, life expectancy and of fertility between the three groups of X-linked MD show that classical DMD and atypical MD may be considered as separate types of severe X-linked proximal pseudohypertrophic MD. On the basis of these findings the authors offer conclusions for the general practice of neurology, paediatrics and genetic counseling.
Patterns of disease in localized extranodal lymphomas.	The site of origin of lymphoid tissue is an important determinant of lymphocyte migration patterns. The association of gastrointestinal (GI) and Waldeyer's ring lymphoma and the unique lymphocyte migration pattern of gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) have been previously described. To establish whether predictive clinical patterns of disease occur in localized Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, survival and relapse patterns for 496 patients with stage I and II non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) treated with loco-regional irradiation (XRT) alone were examined. We identified 139 patients with GALT lymphoma (defined as arising from primitive gut and including Waldeyers' ring, thyroid, and GI lymphomas) and 87 patients with extranodal non-gut-associated lymphoma (ENL). Survival and relapse data were assessed in multifactorial analysis to correct for previously identified other prognostic variables. GALT lymphomas (GALT-L) have a survival advantage compared with other ENL (P = .017) independent of stage and histology. A difference in distant relapse (DR) rate between GALT-L and other ENL (P = .0002) was also identified. The presentation site of localized extranodal NHL is predictive of clinical behavior and is an independent determinant of outcome. This may be an expression of lymphocytic origin and determinants of migration patterns.
Treatment of metastatic breast cancer in premenopausal women using CAF with or without oophorectomy: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Study.	One hundred thirty-one premenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer who had received no prior systemic treatment for metastases were entered on study. Patients without prior chemotherapy with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive and ER-unknown disease were randomized to receive cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH), and 5-fluorouracil (CAF) or surgical oophorectomy followed directly by CAF (O + CAF). ER-negative patients without prior chemotherapy were directly assigned to treatment with CAF. Among randomized patients 83% have responded, and 37% have achieved a complete remission. Among ER-negative patients the complete response rate was 38%, and the complete plus partial response rate was 70%. Characteristics significantly associated with a longer time to treatment failure were age 45 or over, one or two organ sites, and performance status O. The median survival time of ER-positive patients treated with CAF is 29 months, and with O + CAF it has not yet been reached, whereas for ER-unknown patients the equivalent survival times are 41 months and 43 months respectively. For ER-negative patients treated with CAF the median survival time is 17 months. Characteristics associated with significantly longer survival among randomized patients were age 35 or over (P = .009) and only one or two organ sites involved (P = .02). Neither treatment (P = .33) nor ER status (P = .70) was significant.
Evaluation of intensive postremission chemotherapy for adults with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia using high-dose cytosine arabinoside with L-asparaginase and amsacrine with etoposide.	In order to test the toxicity and efficacy of intensive postremission therapy with high-dose cytosine arabinoside with L-asparaginase and amsacrine with etoposide in adults with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (ANL), 100 adults (ages 19 to 75) with previously untreated ANL were entered into a study using six sequential cycles of chemotherapy. Cycles 1 (induction), 3, and 5 included conventional doses of daunomycin, cytosine arabinoside, 6-thioguanine, vincristine (VCR), and prednisone. Cycle 2 was cytosine arabinoside 3 g/m2 intravenously (IV) every 12 hours for four doses, followed by L-asparaginase 10,000 U intramuscularly (IM) at hour 42; this combination was repeated 1 week later. Cycle 4 included amsacrine 120 mg/m2/d and etoposide 100 mg/m2/d, both IV for five days, and cycle 6 was three monthly courses of VCR on day 1, and prednisone, mercaptopurine, and methotrexate each for five days. Seventy-four patients (74%) achieved complete remission (CR) (51 with cycle 1 and 23 after cycle 2). The overall disease-free survival (DFS) for patients achieving CR is 27% at 3 years by Kaplan-Meier analysis, while for patients achieving CR with cycle 1 it is 34%. The actuarial probability of being free from relapse at 3 years for patients achieving CR is 34%. Sixteen of the 74 CR patients (22%) died in CR while continuing to receive intensive chemotherapy, including 12 (18%) who succumbed to infection (nine bacterial, three fungal). After a median follow-up of 20 months, 36 patients have relapsed and 21 remain alive in CR. Intensive consolidation with high-dose cytosine arabinoside, amsacrine, and etoposide can modestly prolong DFS compared with historical controls. However, relapse continued to be a major problem and, in addition, with more aggressive consolidation therapy, infection during marrow aplasia resulted in a significant number of deaths.
Variation in retinol utilization rate with vitamin A status in the rat.	The relationship of vitamin A status to retinol (ROH) utilization rate (disposal rate, DR) and other kinetic parameters was studied in rats with low (LO), marginal (MAR) or high (HI) mean liver vitamin A levels (2.2, 43 and 985 micrograms, respectively) and low or normal plasma ROH concentrations (6.8, 46 and 42 micrograms/dL). Kinetic parameters were calculated by input-output analysis of plasma [3H]ROH turnover monitored for 35 (LO and MAR) or 115 d (HI) after injection of [3H]ROH in its plasma transport complex. There was a highly significant negative correlation between fraction of dose in plasma 5 d after injection of [3H]ROH and the natural log of liver total vitamin A. The total time an average ROH molecule spent in plasma (residence time), as well as the time spent during each pass (transit time), was significantly lower in HI (0.77 d and 1.9 h) than in LO (0.98 d and 2.7 h) and MAR (0.92 d and 2.8 h) rats; however, the total time in the system (mean sojourn time) increased markedly with vitamin A status (5, 18 and 77 d). The number of times an average ROH molecule recycled through plasma before irreversible loss (7-9 times) was similar in all groups. Most of the ROH molecules (approximately 90%) that left the plasma were recycled, not irreversibly metabolized, in all groups. Among groups, ROH DR increased significantly from 1.2 (LO) to 8.0 (MAR) to 11.8 micrograms/d (HI). For LO versus MAR and LO versus HI, differences in DR were positively related to differences in the plasma ROH pool size. These results suggest that low plasma ROH concentrations are associated not only with low liver vitamin A levels, but also with a decreased ROH DR. This decreased DR may or may not reflect a compromised functioning of ROH-dependent systems.
Effects of the antituberculous drug ethambutol on zinc absorption, turnover and distribution in rats fed diet marginal and adequate in zinc.	Ethambutol, [CH3CH2-CH(CH2OH)-NH-CH2]2 (EMB), is an oral antituberculous agent that is administered therapeutically over extended time periods. It has chelating properties and may affect mineral metabolism. Male weanling Sprague-Dawley rats received 0, 400 or 600 mg EMB per kilogram body weight daily by gavage for 30 d. They were fed a casein-based diet with either adequate (49 ppm) or marginal (11 ppm) zinc. Both adequate-Zn (AZn) and marginal-Zn (MZn) rats receiving EMB showed alopecia and dose-dependent reductions in feed intake, weight gain and feed efficiency. None of these changes was seen in rats fed the MZn diet without EMB. Serum and tissue zinc levels were similar in rats not receiving EMB, regardless of the dietary zinc level. Serum zinc was consistently lower in AZn and MZn rats receiving EMB than in rats without EMB. Apparent zinc absorption, measured by 65Zn balance, was higher in AZn rats receiving EMB than in AZn rats without EMB. Thus changes in absorption could not account for lower serum zinc levels in EMB-treated rats. However, 65Zn turnover was also higher in EMB groups. This suggests that EMB may have increased urinary zinc losses resulting in reduced circulating zinc and a consequent increase in zinc absorption.
Relative bioavailability of seleno-compounds in the lactating rat.	Bioavailability of the organic forms of selenium (Se), selenomethionine (Se-methionine) and Se-yeast was determined relative to that of an inorganic form, selenite, in the lactating rat. A purified, casein-based diet without added Se was fed to nine groups of rats throughout pregnancy to produce a marginal Se deficiency. During lactation, groups (n = 8) were fed experimental diets containing either 0.1, 0.25 or 0.5 ppm Se as selenite, Se-methionine, or Se-yeast. On d 18 of lactation, tissue Se and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities of dams and pups were determined. Based on slope-ratio analyses, the bioavailability of Se-methionine and Se-yeast was greater than that of selenite in both lactating dams and their nursing pups. The greater availability of organic Se to pup tissues may be a direct result of the greater concentration of Se in the milk of dams fed organic Se. A dietary level of 0.25 ppm Se as Se-methionine ensured maximal GSH-Px activity in both dam and pup tissues, but 0.5 ppm Se was necessary when selenite or Se-yeast was fed. These results indicate that, regardless of form, the National Research Council recommendation for growing rats of 0.1 ppm Se is not adequate to replete lactating dams and maintain maximal tissue GSH-Px in nursing pups.
Effect of beef fat on DMH-induced colon tumorigenesis: influence of rat strain and nutrient composition.	The modulating effect of high levels of dietary fat on chemically induced colon tumorigenesis has been studied in animal models, with conflicting results. The present study was designed to examine the influence of rat strain, stage of tumor development and micronutrient composition of the diet on 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced intestinal tumorigenesis. Two strains of rats [Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Fischer-344 (F-344)] were fed one of three experimental diets. The diets contained 5 or 20% dietary fat but differed in nutrient composition and nutrient-energy ratio. After receiving the experimental diets for 4 wk, animals were treated with DMH X 2HCl (10 mg/kg body wt) once a week for 20 wk and killed 10 wk after receiving the last dose of carcinogen. Long-term administration of DMH was more toxic to F-344 rats than to SD animals, and the toxicity was potentiated by reductions in the micronutrient composition of the diet. High levels of dietary fat (20%) resulted in a barely significantly higher incidence in colon tumor (but not frequency or size) in SD rats that received the diet promoting optimal growth than did low levels of dietary fat. No effect of 20% beef fat was seen in SD animals fed a diet that produced a slower growth rate or in F-344 animals.
Diurnal regulation of milk lipid production and milk secretion in the rat: effect of dietary protein and energy restriction.	Lactating rats consuming a control diet (20% casein) ad libitum and kept on a 12-h light-dark cycle produced milk during the dark phase at a rate 50% greater than that during the light period. Diurnal variations in the food consumptions of these animals, maternal live weights and litter weight gains were also observed. This diurnal variation with respect to milk production and food consumption appears to be abolished by feeding a low protein (10% casein) diet. However, the variation was amplified when the amount of the control diet was restricted to 25 g/d and made available at the middark period; this was probably related to the meal-feeding behavior of these rats because they consumed all their food within 6 h after it was made available. The rates of fatty acid synthesis in the mammary glands, livers and adipose tissue measured in vivo from [3H]H2O incorporation also varied diurnally with maximal rates at the middark period. Similar rates were obtained for the rats receiving restricted amounts of the control diet measured in the feeding period, whereas the values for the rats fed the low protein diet in the dark period tended to be significantly lower. The milk fatty acids were also analyzed, and whereas no diurnal differences were detected in the samples taken from control rats, a marked reduction in the proportion of the medium-chain acids was observed in the samples from rats receiving restricted amounts of the control diet taken immediately before the normal feeding period.
Helminth parasites of the coyote (Canis latrans) in Tennessee.	From 1980 to 1984, 267 coyotes (Canis latrans) from Tennessee were examined for helminth parasites. Hearts were examined for the presence of Dirofilaria immitis, diaphragms for Trichinella spiralis, and digestive tracts for other helminths. Six species were found including 5 nematodes (D. immitis, Physaloptera rara, Trichuris vulpis, Ancylostoma caninum, and Toxascaris leonina) and 1 cestode (Taenia pisiformis). Univariate and multivariate statistical techniques were used to assess parasite prevalence and intensity. For prevalence data, a matrix of correlation among characters was computed, and the first 3 principal components were extracted from the original distance matrix. These accounted for 93.7% of the variation in the character set. Three-dimensional projections of localities showed spatial variability on each component. Significant relationships were found between principal component I and longitude, component II and latitude and mean January temperature, and component III and mean July precipitation and mean January actual evapotranspiration. For intensity data, no spatial variability was determined.
Application of moment analysis in assessing rates of absorption for bioequivalency studies.	Moment analysis was utilized in the evaluation of equivalency between test and reference formulations with respect to the rate of absorption for four drugs having different pharmacokinetic characteristics. A confidence interval technique was applied to compare the three relevant absorption parameters, that is, peak plasma concentration (Cmax), time to peak plasma concentration (tmax), and mean absorption time (MAT). Equivalence in the absorption rate of drugs was found to be best evaluated by the combined use of MAT, tmax, and Cmax. Use of these parameters for assessing equivalency requires careful interpretation of the results of statistical analysis as well as appropriate consideration of efficacy and safety issues for individual drugs. In addition, the statistical moment method proves to be useful in the assessment of bioequivalency, particularly for drugs with multiple absorption maxima.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry of spinal cord astrocytes after induction of ischemia or anoxia in culture.	The effects of ischemia (removal of oxygen and glucose for 4 h) and anoxia (removal of oxygen alone) on astrocytes were studied in dissociated cultures of E14 spinal cord containing both neurons and astrocytes. In addition, a group of cultures was treated with a low Na+, low Ca2+, and high K+ medium during the 4-h ischemic period (ischemia-protected group), a process that protects neurons from ischemic damage under identical conditions. Astrocytes were examined immunohistochemically using glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAI) antiserum 24 h after insult. Densitometry and statistical analysis (1-way analysis of variance [ANOVA], a priori; 2-tailed Tukey-t, a posteriori) of the digitized images of the somata and processes of astrocytes in the anti-GFAP reacted cultures showed significant differences between the groups; a significant increase (P less than 0.01) in the GFAP-positive reaction in the somata of ischemic astrocytes and a significant decrease (P less than 0.01) in the GFAP-positive reaction in the processes of ischemic, ischemia-protected, and anoxic astrocytes. There were no significant differences in the GFAP immunoreactivity of somata between control, ischemia-protected, and anoxic astrocytes or of processes from ischemic, ischemia-protected, and anoxic astrocytes. These data show that following ischemia cultured astrocytes increase somatic GFAP immunoreactivity compared to all other groups tested whereas the staining intensity for GFAP was decreased in the processes of all three experimental groups compared to controls. Ischemia protection resulted in the absence of the enhancement of somatic GFAP immunoreactivity. The relationship of the astrocytic response and the type of cellular stress is discussed.
Incorrect death certification. An invitation to obfuscation.	The physician responsible for signing a death certificate has an obligation to complete the medical part of the form, which includes entering the cause of death. In a review of 384 death certificates signed by house staff and attending physicians at a university hospital over a one-year period, 59% contained errors in cause-of-death entries. The most common error was listing mechanisms rather than causes of death. Since death certificates are used in calculating basic mortality statistics, such a large percentage of error can lead to considerable statistical misinformation.
Workshop on guidelines to the epidemiology of weak associations. Confounding.	The magnitude of confounding is examined in nine case studies of two "weak" relationships: between artificial sweeteners and bladder cancer, and between oral contraceptives and cervical dysplasia. Confounding had little or no influence on the results of any published study. The responsible epidemiologist must always consider the possibility of confounding, no less when associations are weak than when they are strong. Identification of potentially confounding variables is an integral part of good epidemiologic practice. Rarely, however, does confounding itself, especially from unidentified sources, live up to its reputation for introducing seriously spurious associations. An investigator is more likely to be led astray by undetected biases than by pure confounding.
Factors influencing the survival of 451 transient ischemic attack patients.	Four hundred fifty-one patients with transient ischemic attacks (TIA) occurring within 1 month of hospitalization, admitted during 1977-1983, were analyzed to establish the effect on survival of age, race, sex, distribution of TIA, cigarette smoking, previous cerebral infarction or hemorrhage, previous TIA, or history of ischemic heart disease, valvular heart disease, cardiac dysrhythmia, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. Proportional hazards analysis revealed that decreased survival was associated with increasing age, carotid artery distribution TIAs (compared with vertebrobasilar distribution TIAs), cigarette smoking, previous contralateral stroke, ischemic heart disease, and diabetes mellitus. We found great variation in the estimated survival of TIA patients, ranging from 5-year survivals of greater than 95% for 60-year-old patients with none of these risk factors to less than 25% for patients with all of these risk factors. Although the survival of the strata differed, the average mortality rates for this series of patients was about one-half of that observed for 225 patients accessed and followed by our center during 1961-1973.
Control of glial cell volume in anoxia. In vitro studies on ischemic cell swelling.	Volume regulation of C6 glial cells was studied in anoxia in vitro to improve the understanding of ischemic cell swelling in the brain. Contrary to in vivo conditions, anoxia or anoxia plus iodoacetate for additional inhibition of anaerobic energy metabolism did not induce glial swelling. However, intracellular K+ was markedly decreased while intracellular Na+ increased. Induction of energy failure by anoxia plus iodoacetate was found to prevent the regulatory volume decrease on hyposmotic exposure of the cells, which is regularly observed in normoxic control conditions. Hyposmotic exposure in anoxia plus iodoacetate led only to an initial tendency of cell volume normalization followed by secondary cell swelling. This was associated with a net increase of intracellular Na+ that may explain the failure of volume regulation under these circumstances. Maintenance of a normal glial cell size during complete energy deprivation by anoxia plus iodoacetate in isotonic medium strongly indicates that energy failure per se does not suffice to induce cell swelling. Cell swelling in cerebral ischemia in vivo thus is likely to require additional mechanisms, most likely an increase of membrane permeability to Na+, which may be caused by release and accumulation of excitotoxins such as glutamate or by an extracellular release of K+. Such a mechanism would hardly influence the extracellular homeostasis in vitro due to the large medium-to-cell volume ratio. The findings demonstrate, nonetheless, the significance of a competent energy metabolism to support cell volume regulation. This is concluded from the failure of regulatory volume decrease of hypotonically suspended glial cells in anoxia plus iodoacetate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
K-cell-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity in chronic active liver disease.	These studies were designed to determine the ability of antihepatocyte antibodies from patients with chronic active liver disease to induce killing of rabbit hepatocytes by normal lymphocytes. Normal subjects and patients with chronic persistent hepatitis or chronic active liver disease served as sources of sera, and normal human peripheral lymphocytes and their subsets (T-enriched, K-enriched, and B) served as effectors. Only sera from patients with chronic active liver disease possessed membrane-reactive IgG directed against the surface of rabbit or human hepatocytes. After pretreatment of rabbit hepatocytes with sera from patients with chronic active liver disease, marked cytotoxicity mediated by normal lymphocytes was observed. K-enriched cells mediated the antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, whereas T-enriched cells and B-cells did not. Heat-aggregated human IgG blocked the antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. These data suggest that sera from patients with chronic active liver disease contain IgG antihepatocyte antibodies, which are capable of inducing normal K-cells to kill rabbit hepatocytes in vitro.
Risk factors for AIDS and HIV seropositivity in homosexual men.	The authors compared cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) diagnosed in San Francisco, California, during 1983-1984 with human immuno-deficiency virus (HIV) antibody-negative neighborhood and clinic controls, looking for risk factors for clinical AIDS. They also compared antibody-positive with antibody-negative neighborhood and clinic controls for risk factors for HIV infection. Odds ratios were 52.0 for AIDs and 7.8 for seropositivity for more than 100 sexual partners versus 0-5 partners when antibody-negative neighborhood controls were compared with cases and with antibody-positive neighborhood controls, respectively. Odds ratios were only 2.9 and 3.4 when antibody-negative clinic controls were compared with cases and with antibody-positive clinic controls, respectively. Odds ratios of 4.6-7.3 for rectal receptivity with most or all partners versus none or one partner were statistically significant, independent of the number of partners. Douching before sex was independently associated with odds ratios of 2.2-2.8. There was no evidence for oral-genital, oral-anal, or other sexual transmission of AIDS. In multivariate analysis, independent odds ratios of 2.4-6.0 for prior syphilis and 10.8-27.9 for prior giardiasis were statistically significant or marginally significant in all comparisons. There was a moderate association with nitrite use. No other drugs were consistently associated with clinical AIDS or HIV seropositivity. Odds ratios associated with AIDS and seropositivity were closely comparable except for number of partners.
Frequency of occurrence and distribution of the intra-epithelial lymphoid cells in the follicle-associated epithelium in phenotypically normal and athymic nude mice.	We have determined the number and pattern of spatial distribution of intraepithelial lymphoid cells in the follicle-associated epithelium of Peyer's patches and in the villus epithelium in the small intestine of athymic nu/nu mice and of the phenotypically normal mice kept in specified pathogen-free conditions. The results were obtained by histometric analysis of semithin histological sections. It has been found that the lymphoid cells were scattered randomly in the villus epithelium, while those in the follicle-associated epithelium were non-randomly distributed, occurring often in groups of several cells both for athymic nu/nu and phenotypically normal mice. The numbers of lymphoid cells in the follicle-associated and in the villus epithelium were found to be significantly lower in athymic nu/nu mice than in phenotypically normal mice kept in similar conditions. On the basis of the above results the proportions of thymus-dependent and thymus-independent lymphoid cells in the intestinal epithelium were deduced.
A computer program for estimation of reference percentile values in laboratory data.	It has been suggested that the physician would be aided in his interpretation of clinical laboratory results if the data were reported in terms of percentile ranking in a reference population as well as in conventional units. This paper describes a FORTRAN porgram for estimating the necessary reference percentile values by means of regression over 20% of the distribution rather than by interpolation between adjacent points. The regression estimates are shown to have a negligible bias and to be somewhat more stable than those obtained by interpolation.
Lack of superiority of the vectorcardiogram over the electrocardiogram in detecting inferior wall myocardial infarction regardless of time since infarction.	Using more recent VCG and ECG criteria, the relative accuracy of these two tests in detecting inferior wall MI over time was evaluated in 38 of 236 patients undergoing elective left ventriculographic and coronary angiographic studies who had clinical plus angiographic evidence of inferior wall myocardial infarction. The overall sensitivity and specificity of the ECG criteria of the New York Heart Association and Warner did not differ from that of the VCG criteria of Starr and Takatsu. There was a trend toward decreased sensitivity in both VCG criteria and the ECG criterion of Warner in detecting inferior wall myocardial infarction greater than or equal to 18 months, although the difference did not reach statistical significance. Changing the age of infarction to greater than or equal to 3, greater than or equal to 6, greater than or equal to 12, or greater than or equal to 24 months did not yield a different result. It is concluded that VCG is not superior to ECG in the diagnosis of inferior wall MI regardless of time since occurrence of infarction.
Number of days of food intake records required to estimate individual and group nutrient intakes with defined confidence.	The number of days of food intake data needed to estimate the intake of 29 male (n = 13) and female (n = 16) adult subjects, individually and as a group, was determined for food energy and 18 nutrients. The food intake records were collected in a year-long study conducted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Beltsville Human Nutrition Research Center. Each individual's average intake of nutrients and standard deviation over the year were assumed to reflect his or her "usual" intake and day-to-day variability. Confidence intervals (P less than 0.05) for each individual's usual intake were constructed, and from these the number of days of dietary records needed for estimated individual and group intake to be within 10% of usual intake was calculated. The results indicated that the number of days of food intake records needed to predict the usual nutrient intake of an individual varied substantially among individuals for the same nutrient and within individuals for different nutrients; e.g., food energy required the fewest days (averaging 31) and vitamin A the most (averaging 433). This was considerably higher than the number of days needed to estimate mean nutrient intake for this group, which ranged from 3 for food energy to 41 for vitamin A. Fewer days would be needed for larger groups.
Characterization of metachronal wave of beating cilia on frog's palate epithelium in tissue culture.	1. A method is suggested to measure phase versus distance between beating cilia by means of a photoelectric device. A statistical method interpreting the results thus obtained is discussed. 2. It was found that: (a) an average phase exists between beating cilia, (b) despite strong fluctuations in phase on a short time scale, the average phase was kept constant over periods of 8 h, (c) the ciliary frequency and the length of the metachronal wave can be measured simultaneously. 3. The average phase differences are linearly dependent on distance. 4. The effective range of synchronization between cilia is of the order of 10 micron indicating that it occurs within one cell. 5. During the cycle of ciliary beating there are periods where coupling is stronger.
Refined structure of glutathione reductase at 1.54 A resolution.	The crystal structure of human glutathione reductase has been established at 1.54 A resolution using a restrained least-squares refinement method. Based on 77,690 independent reflections of better than 10 A resolution, a final R-factor of 18.6% was obtained with a model obeying standard geometry within 0.025 A in bond lengths and 2.4 degrees in bond angles. The final 2Fo-Fc electron density map allows for the distinction of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen atoms with temperature factors below about 25 A2. Apart from 461 amino acid residues and the prosthetic group FAD, the model contains 524 solvent molecules, about 118 of which can be considered an integral part of the enzyme. The largest solvent cluster is at the dimer interface and contains 104 interconnected solvent molecules, part of which are organized in a warped sheet-like structure. The main-chain dihedral angles are well-concentrated in the allowed regions of the Ramachandran plot. The spread of dihedral angles in beta-pleated sheets is much larger than in alpha-helices and especially in alpha-helix cores, indicating the higher plasticity of beta-structures. The analysis revealed a large amount of 3(10)-helix. The side-chain conformations cluster at the staggered positions, and show well-defined preferences. Also, a mobility gradient is observed for side-chains. Non-polar and polar side-chains show average temperature factor increases per bond of 10% and 25%, respectively. A number of alternative conformations of internal side-chains, in particular serines and methionines, have been detected. The extended FAD molecule also shows a mobility gradient between the very rigid flavin (mean value of B) = 8.7 A2) and the more mobile adenine (mean value of B = 16.2 A2). The entire active center is particularly well ordered, with temperature factors around 10 A2. The dimer interface consists of a rigid contact area, which is well conserved in the Escherichia coli enzyme, and a flexible area that is not. Altogether, the buried surfaces at the crystal contacts are half as large as at the dimer interface, but less specific. The refined structure shows clearly that there are no buried cations compensating the charge of the pyrophosphate moiety of FAD. The flavin deviates slightly from standard geometry, which is possibly caused by the polypeptide environment. In contrast to an earlier interpretation, atom N5 of the flavin can accommodate a proton, and it is conceivable that this proton proceeds to the redox-active disulfide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Perspectives on adolescent substance use. A defined population study.	We asked 1447 tenth graders to complete a survey on physical activity, nutrition, stress, and substance use and to undergo basic physical assessments. In a multiple regression analysis, increased level of substance use by both boys and girls was most strongly predicted by friends' marijuana use. For boys, this was followed by perceived safety of cigarette smoking; poor school performance; parents' education; and use of diet pills, laxatives, or diuretics for weight control, accounting for 44% of the overall variation in substance use. For girls, friends' marijuana use was followed by poor school performance; self-induced vomiting for weight control; perceived safety of cigarette smoking; use of diet pills, laxatives, or diuretics for weight control; parents' education; perceived adult attitudes about cigarettes; and nonuse of seat belts, accounting for 53% of the overall variance. Separate multiple regression analyses for each substance produced similar results. The homogeneity of the study population precluded ethnic comparisons. These findings suggest that for many purposes substance use may be considered a single behavior regardless of the specific substance(s) used and that substance use may exist as part of a syndrome of adolescent problem behaviors. In addition, the potent influence of perceived social environment suggests that a social influence resistance model may represent the most successful preventive strategy.
Minimal spanning tree analysis of biological structures.	A new approach to study order and disorder in biological membranes and more generally in biological structures is developed. It is based on a graph constructed on the set points representing the position of particles. From this graph, which is called the minimal spanning tree, it is possible to deduce two parameters, namely the average length m and the standard deviation sigma which are characteristic of the repartition to be studied. The use of a diagram involving both m and sigma makes it possible to determine the degree of order by taking a simple reading in the (m, sigma) plane.
A multivariate phenetic approach to neuronal nuclei resemblances across species, with examples from three regions of cerebral cortex of a mammal, a bird and a reptile.	In order to test the assumed homology between three examples of cortical cerebral architecture corresponding to three species of mammals, birds and reptiles respectively, a method arising from the quantitative standpoint of the concept of homology has been utilized. For this purpose, data corresponding to randomly selected neurons were analysed by means of multivariate techniques such as principal component, principal co-ordinates and hierarchical cluster analyses since on each neuron a set of nineteen variables, chosen as a definition of its dendritic morphology, was measured. This method has made it possible both to discern the neuron forms which are responsible for the discrimination between the three cortical nuclei studied and to show by setting up a discriminant index, the degree of overall similarity between such nuclei. These two findings provide evidence against both the fibrous connection criterion with which some modern neurobiologists ascertain homologs and the categorical concept of homology.
The use of non-linear regression analysis and the F test for model discrimination with dose-response curves and ligand binding data.	Computer fitting of binding data is discussed and it is concluded that the main problem is the choice of starting estimates and internal scaling parameters, not the optimization software. Solving linear overdetermined systems of equations for starting estimates is investigated. A function, Q, is introduced to study model discrimination with binding isotherms and the behaviour of Q as a function of model parameters is calculated for the case of 2 and 3 sites. The power function of the F test is estimated for models with 2 to 5 binding sites and necessary constraints on parameters for correct model discrimination are given. The sampling distribution of F test statistics is compared to an exact F distribution using the Chi-squared and Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests. For low order modes (n less than 3) the F test statistics are approximately F distributed but for higher order models the test statistics are skewed to the left of the F distribution. The parameter covariance matrix obtained by inverting the Hessian matrix of the objective function is shown to be a good approximation to the estimate obtained by Monte Carlo sampling for low order models (n less than 3). It is concluded that analysis of up to 2 or 3 binding sites presents few problems and linear, normal statistical results are valid. To identify correctly 4 sites is much more difficult, requiring very precise data and extreme parameter values. Discrimination of 5 from 4 sites is an upper limit to the usefulness of the F test.
Problems of test choice and data analysis in behavioral teratology: the case of prenatal benzodiazepines.	Higher-tier tests for the assessment of early treatment effects should be aimed at providing specific information on the behavior processes affected, rather than simply at extending the descriptive data base. The contrast between positive and negative results can be useful to point out possible mechanisms of action. For example, late prenatal oxazepam exposure of mice produced a reduction of the amphetamine hyperactivity at the end of the second postnatal week, but did not significantly affect the response to scopolamine at the end of the third week. An impairment of active locomotor avoidance was observed at the young adult stage, which contrasted with the absence or scarcity of changes in passive avoidance and extinction responding in the same go-no go tests. These changes in response-activating mechanisms appear to be in agreement with the medium- and long-term effects on CNS monoamine metabolism described in the literature. As concerns statistical analysis, dichotomous or polytomous data obtained, e.g., by the Fox battery are not yet amenable to an adequate processing, due to the shortcomings of the available nonparametric tests. By contrast, mixed-model ANOVAs can cope with complex data obtained, e.g., in activity and learning tests. However, the available checks on various assumptions (normality, homogeneity of variance, sphericity) are not valid when nested factors, block factors and repeated measures coexist. Finally, the more usual cross-fostering procedures provide adequate information on some aspects (e.g., separation of main effects of prenatal treatments from postnatal maternal effects) but not on others.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A guide for mutagenicity testing using the dominant lethal assay.	The dominant lethal assay has been used and continues to be used to provide information about the effects of chemicals on the gonadal cells of male animals. Guidelines for conducting this test are useful but as with any guideline scientists should avoid interpreting them as protocols. Thus this document is a general approach to dominant lethal testing and should be used in conjunction with other available protocols and procedures.
Pulmonary function at 1 year of age in survivors of neonatal respiratory distress: a multivariate analysis of factors associated with sequelae.	We studied pulmonary function 1 year after neonatal respiratory distress (RD) in 54 infants who had been treated at birth in the same neonatal intensive care unit. RD was related to hyaline membrane disease in 36 cases (group I) and to other causes in 18 cases (group II). Compared with predicted values, dynamic lung compliance (CL) was lower (less than -2 SD) and total pulmonary resistance (RL) was higher (+2 SD) in 18 (33%) and 12 (22%) infants, respectively. The relationships between these functional abnormalities at 1 year of age and the characteristics of the neonatal respiratory disease were assessed using a multifactorial analysis (multiple correspondences analysis). We found that elevated RL (greater than +2 SD) at 1 year of age was very significantly related with hyaline membrane disease, involving both high rate of positive pressure ventilation and prolonged intubation, and with the presence of both tachypnea and abnormal chest X rays at the time of discharge. Compared with elevated RL, the relationships between low CL (less than -2 SD) and the same neonatal characteristics were less significant; in particular, there was no strong link between low CL and hyaline membrane disease. Finally, birth before 30 weeks gestation was an index of severity.
Automated multivariate measurement of spontaneous motor activity in mice: time course and reliabilities of the behavioral measures.	A variety of automated procedures have been developed to measure certain aspects of spontaneous motor activity in small animals. The present study used a Digiscan Animal Activity Monitor to measure six different aspects of spontaneous motor behavior in male CF-1 mice. The Digiscan system uses infrared beams and computer analysis to quantify various behavioral variables. The mice were tested for 1 hour on 2 different days of the week for 3 consecutive weeks. Both the temporal changes in the measured variables and the test-retest reliabilities were examined in a group of 30 mice. Statistical analysis of the data revealed significantly higher mean values for total movement time, average distance travelled, and horizontal activity on the first test session relative to the second session (p less than 0.01). The other 3 measures, total distance travelled, number of movements, and average speed, did not vary significantly across test sessions. All 6 behavioral variables showed good test-retest reliabilities and these could be increased by aggregating the data on a weekly basis. The present results indicate that the measures obtained from the Digiscan system are reliable and that the animals should first be habituated to the test apparatus in order to obtain stable baseline activity values.
DRL performance in the weanling rat: a comparison with adult subjects.	Weanling (21-day) and adult (3-month-old) albino rats were reinforced for lever pressing on a Differential Reinforcement of Low rates 20 seconds schedule. After 2 sessions at DRL 5, 10, 15 and 20 seconds, 40 DRL 20 seconds sessions were performed, at a pace of 4 sessions a day. Adult rats emit lower response rates, higher median Inter-Response-Times (IRTs) and obtain more reinforcers than weanling rats. Furthermore, their coefficients of variation (ratio between semi-interquartile range and median of the IRT distribution) are significantly lower than those of the young subjects. Age-related differences are discussed in relationship with general activity, food motivation and timing mechanisms. It is suggested that weanling and adult timing devices do not basically differ, but that age-related differences exist at the level of the translation of time estimates into overt behavior.
Prevalence of sleep apnea syndrome--estimation by two stage sampling.	This article describes stepwise the methodological and statistical considerations made in the planning of an epidemiological survey of the prevalence of the sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) in the municipality of Uppsala in Sweden. The investigation had to be confined to 60 subjects, since all-night polysomnographic studies are required for an unequivocal diagnosis of SAS. It was decided to investigate men 30 to 69 years old. Initially, the possibility of taking a simple random sample (SRS) was considered, but statistical calculations showed that for prevalences between 1-3% this would lead to totally unacceptable results. A postal questionnaire, sent to the total population of 35,779 men in this age group, was then considered and, depending on their replies, they would be divided into low-risk and high-risk stratums of SAS. Optimal numbers would then be called from each group for polysomnographic studies. This also proved impossible, as the lowest possible standard error was still too large and the samples would contain unacceptably few cases of SAS. We therefore decided to concentrate on the highrisk stratum, obtaining an estimated under limit of the prevalence. For economical reasons, we could not send a questionnaire to all the 35,779 individuals, but based the investigation on a SRS of 4,000 men, post-stratified in a high-risk and a low-risk group. From the high-risk group, 60 men were then selected for polysomnographic studies.
Statistical methodology for paired cluster designs.	Recently developed methodology is applied to the analysis of data arising from a design in which an experimental intervention is assigned at random to one of two clusters in a matched pair. Standard statistical techniques do not apply to such data, since they do not take into account variation arising from differences among clusters as well as within clusters. The methodology presented provides a significance test over kappa pairs of clusters with respect to a dichotomous outcome variable while controlling for confounding. The investigation of interaction effects is also discussed.
Papillary and follicular thyroid cancer. Prognostic factors in 1,578 patients.	This report from the Canadian survey of thyroid cancer describes 1,074 patients with papillary thyroid cancer and 504 with follicular thyroid cancer followed for four to 24 years. The study groups included more patients with "advanced" disease and fewer with "early" disease than in the general population because these patients were referred to radiotherapy cancer centers, sometimes routinely, but often because referring physicians believed that certain clinical features indicated the need for additional treatment. Although this report is subject to all the problems of retrospective studies, a careful assessment of the pretreatment extent of disease combined with a long follow-up period has allowed an analysis of prognostic factors with considerable confidence. Univariate analysis of 12 possible prognostic factors (excluding treatment) demonstrated that nine of them were of statistical significance: postoperative status, age at diagnosis, extrathyroidal invasion, distant metastases, nodal involvement, differentiation, sex, tumor size, and pathologic type (in descending order of importance). Multivariate analysis was carried out using cause-specific survival rates. Independently important prognostic factors at initial treatment were age at diagnosis, extrathyroidal invasion, and degree of differentiation histologically for papillary cancers; and extrathyroidal invasion, distant metastases, primary tumor size, nodal involvement, age at diagnosis, and postoperative status for follicular cancers. The prognostic factors for tumor recurrence were quite different for the papillary and follicular cancers and ranked differently for the two groups.
Impact of multiple comparisons in randomized clinical trials.	The randomized clinical trial is the preferred research design for evaluating competing diagnostic and therapeutic alternatives, but confidence in the conclusions from a randomized clinical trial depends on the authors' attention to acknowledged methodologic and statistical standards. This survey assessed the level of attention to the problem of multiple comparisons in the analyses of contemporary randomized clinical trials. Of the 67 trials surveyed, 66 (99 percent) performed multiple comparisons with a mean of 30 therapeutic comparisons per trial. When criteria for statistical impairment were applied, 50 trials (75 percent) had the statistical significance of at least one comparison impaired by the problem of multiple comparisons, and 15 (22 percent) had the statistical significance of all comparisons impaired by the problem of multiple comparisons. Although some statistical techniques are available, there still exists a great need for future work to clarify further the problem of multiple comparisons and determine how the impact of this problem can best be minimized in subsequent research.
Non-random distribution of various sizes of human Y chromosomes in different ethnic groups.	One hundred and ninety normal males from three ethnically different populations (Caucasians, American blacks and East Indians) were selected to study the frequency distribution of length of the Y chromosome, fluorescent (f) and non-fluorescent (nf) segments as a function of Y/F, f/F and nf/F indices. The QFQ techniques was performed to identify the f and nf segments. The frequency distribution of the total length of Y chromosome was not normally distributed in all three populations (P less than 0.05). Extensive statistical analysis revealed that the non-random distribution of the total length was due to skewness and kurtosis for both the n and nf segments. The clinical implications as well as evolutionary aspects of such variation in ethnic anthropology are discussed.
The structure of depressive symptoms in the elderly.	In a structured sample of 100 male and 100 female minimally impaired patients, aged 60 years and over, females were more depressed. Varimax factor analysis demonstrated four factor groupings which have clinical relevance - Depression, Anxiety, Cognitive impairment, and Psychosomatic disorder; their relative importance is different in males and females. Analysis of variance of the scores of clusters generated by cluster analysis demonstrated four groups of subjects - normal, mildly depressed, moderately depressed with borderline dementia and disability, and severely depressed with moderate dementia and frank disability. In the mildly and moderately depressed, symptoms of anxiety predominated.
Limiting efficiencies of the non-parametric median method for A exp(-kt) data.	Weighted least squares analysis and the median method are used to extract A and k from simulated single exponential decays. The standard deviations of these parameters (sigma p) depend upon the method of analysis. The sigma p are compared as efficiencies (= sigma 2p[least squares]/sigma 2p[median]). These efficiencies depend upon the range of the decay and the underlying error structure. These include errors independent of the data, approximately equal to the data and approximately equal to the square root of the data. Some efficiencies fall well below 25% for the median method. Such instances reflect the large cost of not knowing or not using the weights; they amount to ignoring greater than 75% of the data we strive to collect.
Designing clinical trials with arbitrary specification of survival functions and for the log rank or generalized Wilcoxon test.	This article describes a computer program that allows interactive determination of the length of accrual period and follow-up period sufficient to assure desired level of significance and power. The program allows for arbitrary specification of the hypothesized survival curves and the alternative survival curve. It allows use of either the generalized Wilcoxon test or the log rank test. The program can be run on an IBM personal computer.
The use of psychophysical, structural, and electrodiagnostic parameters to identify glaucomatous damage.	Fifty-one patients with early glaucoma and 29 patients without the disease had their contrast sensitivity, colour vision, differential light threshold, neuroretinal rim area, retinal nerve fibre layer, pattern-reversal electrogram and visually evoked potential examined. A stepwise discriminant analysis found that the combination of the vertical cup disc ratio, the diffuse nerve fibre layer score and the localized nerve fibre layer score correctly identified 98% of the normals and 84% of the glaucoma patients. Single parameters and various combinations of parameters were also examined for their ability to discriminate between the two groups. Fifty-two glaucoma suspects were similarly examined and were classified into those whose discriminant functions were normal or abnormal.
Classification of normal colorectal mucosa and adenocarcinoma by morphometry.	Semi-automatic image analysis was used to make a morphometrical assessment of 15 nuclear and cellular variables in normal (n = 20) and malignant (n = 30) colorectal epithelium. Principal components analysis on the matrix of correlations between variables identified four main sources of variation within the dataset. These were, in decreasing order of importance: (1) nuclear size, nuclear cytoplasmic ratio and nuclear position within the cell; (2) the variability of nuclear size; (3) nuclear elongation and polarity; (4) nuclear shape and its variation. Discriminant analysis was conducted between histologically normal mucosa (n = 10) and adenocarcinoma in ulcerative colitis (n = 20). Using stepwise variable selection, the mean nuclear cytoplasmic ratio (normal, mean 20.4 (s.d. +/- 2.0); tumour, mean 39.7 (s.d. +/- 7.0)) and the coefficient of variation of nucleus to cell apex distance (normal, mean 19.2 (s.d. +/- 7.5); tumour, mean 47.8 (s.d. +/- 9.1)) were chosen as discriminating features. They were used to derive a discriminant function which gave perfect discrimination between the two groups. Scatter plots of these two variables confirmed complete separation of normal mucosa from adenocarcinoma and provided a simple method of applying the discriminant function. Discriminatory performance did not deteriorate when the function was applied to further normals (n = 10) and adenocarcinoma (n = 10). This study highlights the descriptive differences between normal and malignant colorectal epithelium and shows that case allocation may be made to these two lesion categories using a morphometrically-derived classification rule.
Morphometrical analysis in ulcerative colitis with dysplasia and carcinoma.	Semi-automatic image analysis was used to assess the epithelium in ulcerative colitis with dysplasia and carcinoma. There were three main sources of variation within the dataset: (1) nuclear size, nuclear cytoplasmic ratio and nuclear stratification; (2) the variation of nuclear size; and (3) nuclear shape and polarity. Discriminant analysis chose the mean nuclear cytoplasmic ratio % and the coefficient of variation of nucleus to cell apex distance to derive a scoring system which completely separated normal mucosa (n = 20) and carcinoma (n = 30). The classification rule allocated all high grade dysplasia to the tumour category. Scores for regeneration and low grade dysplasia overlapped with each other and the normal and tumour groups. Scatter plots of the two discriminating variables showed good separation of regeneration and high grade dysplasia, and a degree of overlap with low grade dysplasia. The scatter plots allowed identification of overlapping and misallocated cases, requiring review of their histology and redesignation of the diagnosis in five cases. This study confirms quantitatively the visual criteria used in grading mucosal changes and their trend from regeneration through dysplasia to carcinoma. It underlines the necessity of assessing not only cytological but also architectural and inflammatory components when diagnosing regeneration and low grade dysplasia. Mucosal morphometry may be of use in confirming high grade dysplasia which is an indication for colectomy.
Calculating cancer latency using data from a nested case-control study of prostatic cancer.	Assessing latency for neoplastic diseases is crucial for determining the causal effects of a complex mix of carcinogenic exposures. An initial assessment of cancer risks in a U.S. tire and rubber plant revealed a significant SMR of 140 for prostatic cancer. Using an industry-based, case-control death certificate study of prostatic malignancies, we found matched odds ratios of about 3 (p less than 0.025) for Batch Preparation, the work area with the greatest exposure to carbon black, solvents, and heavy metal oxides. To assess latency, we used the matched case-control series to calculate annual estimates of the odds ratio by determining the proportion of cases and controls employed for greater than 1 month in Batch Preparation during each year under study. This approach produced a plot with great fluctuations. To reduce variability in the resulting curve, a method was developed that measured the "etiologic fraction", which is its highest point represents an estimate of the peak of the latency distribution. For Batch Preparation the modal point was 29 years before death with the greatest risk occurring from employment in the mid-1940's. The latency method allows risk assessment for time and year of greatest exposure difference, thus suggesting appropriate prevention strategies. Applications of this method for other types of studies and exposures are discussed.
Diagnostic plots for departures from proportional hazards in cohort study data.	The assumption of proportional hazards is routinely made in the analysis of cohort studies, whether a simple SMR calculation or a full survival analysis is used. In this paper, we introduce simple plots for checking the validity of the assumption. The plots are of two kinds. The first, which has been used previously for survival data, makes use of the fact that the individual integrated hazards are distributed as unit exponential varieties under proportional hazards, and involves plotting their estimates against expected exponential order statistics. The second displays the evolution of relative risk as a function of time, and in this case, a choice of time scale must be made for the plots. A score test for proportional hazards is also derived, and the methods are illustrated by data on cancer mortality among the employees of a South Wales nickel refinery.
Some problems of inference in cohort studies.	This paper uses a detailed example to illustrate how to detect individual observations that disproportionately influence the results of hypothesis testing with relative risk regression models.
A graphical approach to the identification and estimation of causal parameters in mortality studies with sustained exposure periods.	In observational cohort mortality studies with prolonged periods of exposure to the agent under study, independent risk factors for death commonly determine subsequent exposure to the study agent. For example, in occupational mortality studies, date of termination of employment is both a determinant of subsequent exposure to the chemical agent under study (since terminated individuals receive no further exposure) and an independent risk factor for death (since disabled individuals tend to leave employment). When a risk factor determines subsequent exposure and is determined by previous exposure, standard analyses that estimate age-specific mortality rates as a function of cumulative exposure can underestimate the true effect of exposure on mortality, whether or not one adjusts for the risk factor in the analysis. This observation raises the question, "Which, if any, empirical population parameter can be causally interpreted as the true effect of exposure in observational mortality studies?" In answer, we offer a graphical approach to the identification and estimation of causal parameters in mortality studies with sustained exposure periods. We reanalyze the mortality experience of a cohort of arsenic-exposed copper smelter workers using our approach and compare our results with those obtained using standard methods. We find an adverse effect of arsenic exposure on all cause and lung cancer mortality, which standard methods failed to detect. The analytic approach introduced in this paper may be necessary to control bias in any epidemiologic study in which there exists a risk factor which both determines subsequent exposure and is determined by previous exposure to the agent under study.
Use of multistage models to infer stage affected by carcinogenic exposure: example of lung cancer and cigarette smoking.	Statistical methods based on the Armitage-Doll mathematical model of the carcinogenic process are presented for analyzing epidemiologic case-control studies of cancer. These methods are proposed to provide inferences regarding the stage(s) in the cancer process at which the exposure of interest acts. An example of these methods is given which shows evidence that carcinogens in cigarette smoke appear to affect the transition rates for two separate stages in the development of lung cancer, and the relative magnitudes of these effects are estimated. The data for this analysis came from a European multi-center case-control study of lung cancer. The results of the analysis show that: (1) the relative risk of lung cancer among continuing smokers compared to nonsmokers of the same age decreases as the age started smoking increases, while the rate of smoking stays fixed, a result which indicates a carcinogenic effect on an early stage in the process; and (2) the relative risk among ex-smokers compared to continuing smokers having the same duration and rate of smoking decreases with time since smoking stopped, a result which indicates a carcinogenic effect on a late stage in the process. Both results are shown to be best described by the hypothesis that cigarette smoking affects two stages. The estimated relative magnitudes of cigarettes' carcinogenic effects on the two stages indicate that the largest proportion of the total lifetime lung cancer risk among continuing smokers is due to its late stage effect, and that the proportion of risk due to causes other than smoking varies from 23% among men smoking 1-10 cigarettes per day to 6% among those smoking greater than 30 cigarettes per day. These findings imply that preventive measures directed toward inducing smokers to stop would have a potentially substantial payoff in reducing future lung cancer mortality.
Nonparametric estimation of relative mortality functions.	The standardized mortality ratio (SMR), which is the ratio of the number of deaths from a particular disease observed in a study cohort to the number expected from national vital statistics, has a long history of use in epidemiology. Separate SMRs computed according to discrete intervals of time since initial exposure, time on study, age or calendar year are used to examine effects of these variables on relative mortality. Applying some recent ideas of Andersen et al. (Biometrics 1985; 41: 921-932), we discuss refinements of this procedure that yield a nonparametric estimate of the SMR as a function of one time-varying factor while at the same time adjusting for the effects of other factors in a regression equation. The method is utilized to study relative lung cancer mortality as a function of years since initial employment in cohorts of 8014 Montana smelter workers and 679 Welsh nickel refinery workers. Suggestions are made for approximating the relative mortality function using only data for cases and matched controls sampled from the full cohort.
Single-case experimental designs in neuropsychological rehabilitation.	It is becoming accepted that single-case studies can offer important contributions to theoretical aspects of neuropsychology. Such recognition has not been so forthcoming in the field of rehabilitation, where single-case studies can be employed to evaluate neuropsychological treatments. This paper describes behavioural approaches to treatment of the neurologically impaired which include single-case experimental designs that have originated in the field of behavioural psychology. Examples of behaviour programmes for the treatment of apraxia and alexia are provided together with examples of single-case experimental designs used to evaluate memory therapy. The paper concludes with a brief discussion of the role of statistics in single-case studies.
Statistical considerations in the quantitation of serum immunoglobulin levels using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).	Several methods for analyzing ELISA data have been evaluated using optical density values derived by reacting serial two-fold dilutions of a rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) reference serum with dilutions of peroxidase-conjugated monospecific antisera to human IgG and IgM in the micro-ELISA 'sandwich' technique using microplates coated with appropriately diluted antisera to human IgG and IgM. Representation of optical density as a linear function of log serum dilution was shown to be inappropriate and potentially misleading. Weighted non-linear least squares analysis of a 4-parameter logit was demonstrated to be inappropriate because it required the specification of a somewhat arbitrary variance function and weight estimates varied substantially depending on the function used. Representation of optical density as a 4-parameter logistic function with estimation carried out on the log scale was shown to be the most appropriate procedure for determining the concentration of antigens or antibodies by the ELISA method.
On the use of statistics for representing the knowledge acquired from experts in a medical consulting system.	For making medical consulting systems, it is important and significant to select and devise the method for representing the knowledge acquired from professional experts. As quantities of data required for consultation are increasing according to the progress of medical science, we have to introduce some new kinds of statistics into a medical consultation system. From another point of view, since the process of diagnosis of experts is considered to be a kind of effective model for compressing (or condensing) data quantitatively and qualitatively, we discuss the use of statistics for representing the knowledge acquired from experts from the standpoint of data compression.
Epidemiology of AIDS--statistical analyses.	Some central questions concerning the epidemiology of AIDS are addressed by statistical analyses. Applying standard maximum likelihood theory to reported cases of transfusion-associated AIDS in the US, the mean and standard deviation of incubation time for AIDS are estimated to be about 60 and 19 months, respectively. If these parameters are applied to the data from the San Francisco CDC cohort study, we find a good correspondence between estimated and reported cases of AIDS when the probability factor p is 0.27-meaning that about 27% of those infected with HIV are expected to develop AIDS during a period of 8-10 years. Application of the incubation time model and the probability factor p to the data on transfusion-associated AIDS makes it possible to estimate the number of transfusion-associated infections with HIV from 1978 to 1984. These estimates give an exponential increase in the number of cases, with a relative increase of 2.74 each year. It seems reasonable to assume that this increase reflects the spread of the virus within this period.
Use of simultaneous curve fitting and a four-parameter logistic model to evaluate the nutritional quality of protein sources at growth rates of rats from maintenance to maximum gain.	A four-parameter logistic model was used to describe the dose-response relationship of rats fed diets containing 12 levels of casein, peanut meal or wheat gluten. The model was capable of accurately describing the entire response curve of rats fed diets containing each of the three protein sources. Incorporation of a technique known as parameter sharing into the curve-fitting process facilitated convergence of the parameter estimates for b (the response of rats fed a protein-free diet) and Rmax (maximum response) for all curves when compared with the values observed experimentally. Parameter sharing also provided a method by which the curves could be differentiated on a statistical basis. These data indicate that the relative value of a protein source is dependent on the concentration of the protein in the diet. The application of nonlinear models combined with parameter sharing provides a technique by which protein values can be evaluated at levels of animal response from maintenance to maximum growth.
Repair of tricuspid valve insufficiency in patients undergoing double (aortic and mitral) valve replacement. Perioperative mortality and long-term (1 to 20 years) follow-up in 109 patients.	Between 1965 and 1984, 109 patients underwent simultaneous aortic and mitral valve replacement and tricuspid valve repair at the Mayo Clinic, with a perioperative mortality of 21%. The only variable predictive of perioperative mortality on multiple regression analysis was New York Heart Association class IV disability. The median follow-up was 5.6 years (range 1 to 20 years). Cumulative 5-, 10-, and 15-year survival rates in patients discharged from the hospital were 70% +/- 5%, 42% +/- 6%, and 33% +/- 7%. Multivariate analysis identified advanced age and class IV disability as significant predictors of poor survival. Five-year survival rates were similar in patients undergoing operation between 1965 and 1974 and after 1975, despite an increase in age and in the severity of preoperative symptoms in the recent group. Late mortality was due to sudden death in 38% of the patients, heart failure in 21%, reoperation in 5%, endocarditis in 2%, and thromboembolism and bleeding in 4%. Late complications included systemic emboli in 22% (embolism rate 4.5 events/100 patient-years), bleeding in 17%, reoperation in 14%, myocardial infarction in 8%, permanent pacemaker implantation in 5%, and infective endocarditis in 3%. Of 43% of the patients still alive, 79% are in class I or II.
Inter-observer variation on registration of signals of cancer.	Previous studies have dealt with the role of seven warning signals of cancer in public health education and cancer diagnostics in general practice. Registrations of warning signals from medical records have some inconveniences common to most retrospective record studies. In the present inter-observer variation study it is found that agreement is good for warning signals in cancer patients when the warning signal has a probable connection with the disease. In control patients, and for more incidentally occurring warning signals in cancer patients, agreement is not so good. It seems that reproducible registrations from records are possible when there is a precise definition of what to look for and the data are relevant to the patient's disease. This study stresses the importance of good record keeping in medical practice.
The value of warning signals of cancer in general practice.	Seven warning signals of cancer are poor diagnostic indicators of cancer, but for some patients awareness of warning signals may help reducing diagnostic delay. The usefulness of warning signals recorded by general practitioners at consultation is evaluated for a group of 80 patients who developed cancer 0-18 months after the consultation. Warning signals of cancer were recorded at the consultations in 20 cancer patients and in 13 matched control patients. For three cancer patients the warning signal was considered not related to the cancer. Recognition of warning signals related to the cancer disease was considered useful for nine out of 17 patients, somewhat useful for five and hardly useful at all for three patients.
Teaching reasoning.	Twentieth-century psychologists have been pessimistic about teaching reasoning, prevailing opinion suggesting that people may possess only domain-specific rules, rather than abstract rules; this would mean that training a rule in one domain would not produce generalization to other domains. Alternatively, it was thought that people might possess abstract rules (such as logical ones) but that these are induced developmentally through self-discovery methods and cannot be trained. Research suggests a much more optimistic view: even brief formal training in inferential rules may enhance their use for reasoning about everyday life events. Previous theorists may have been mistaken about trainability, in part because they misidentified the kind of rules that people use naturally.
A statistical test for synergism of two cell growth inhibitors.	Interaction of 2 inhibitors of cell growth can be detected by measuring the inhibiting effect of the 2 drugs separately and in combination. A control group is used as the basis for each comparison. We discuss a method for the statistical analysis of such measurements, when the basic observation is the number of cells harvested from a treated culture.
The effects of cytocentrifugation on differential cell counts in samples obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage.	Quantification of the differential cell count and total number of cells recovered from the lower respiratory tract by bronchoalveolar lavage is a valuable technique for the diagnostic study of interstitial lung diseases. To examine the effect on the cell counts of different methods of processing the lavage fluid, two comparisons were performed. First, two methods of differential cell counting were compared using 28 fluids. One count was performed in a Malassez hemocytometer after incubation of the living cells with neutral red for five minutes at room temperature; large cells and some small cells that had incorporated neutral red were identified as macrophages. Another count was performed on cytocentrifuge preparations made using the Shandon Cytospin I and Cytospin II and stained by the May-Grünwald-Giemsa method. The percentage of cells identified as lymphocytes was significantly lower on the cytocentrifuge preparations than with the Malassez hemocytometer. In the second study, the differential cell counts on smears prepared by the two types of cytocentrifuge (Cytospin I and Cytospin II) were compared for 32 bronchoalveolar lavage fluids. The percentage of small cells (especially lymphocytes) was lower on preparations made with the Cytospin I than on those made with the Cytospin II, but the difference was not significant. The results indicate that (1) cytocentrifugation of bronchoalveolar lavage fluids does result in a significant loss of small cells, especially lymphocytes, and (2) this loss is not significantly lessened by the use of the Cytospin II.
Innovations in the statistical analysis of twin studies.	Advances in computer technology have made possible a greater sophistication in the statistical analysis of pedigree data, however this is not necessarily manifest by fitting more comprehensive causative models. Planned twin and family studies measure numerous explanatory variables, including perhaps genetic and DNA marker information status on all pedigree members, and the cohabitation of all pairs of individuals. A statistical analysis should examine the contribution of these measured factors on individual means, and in explaining the variation and covariation between individuals, concurrently with the postulated effect of unmeasured factors such as polygenes. We present two models that meet this requirement: the Multivariate Normal Model for Pedigree Analysis for quantitative traits, and a Log-Linear Model for Binary Pedigree Data. For both models, important issues are examination of fit, detection of outlier pedigrees and outlier individuals, and critical examination of the model assumptions. Procedures for fulfilling these needs and examples of modelling are discussed.
Constrained maximum likelihood analysis of familial resemblance of twins and their parents.	When the univariate twin design is extended by including parents of twins, it is possible to assess additive genetic effects in the presence of assortative mating and genotype-environment correlation, the effects of parental influence, as well as the extent of residual shared environmental influences. The analysis of data obtained in such an extended twin design can be carried out by means of constrained maximum likelihood confirmatory factor analysis. Specifically, the structural model underlying this design can be represented as a LISREL model with nonlinear constraints. This representation offers the possibility to consider extended multivariate twin designs involving common genetic and environmental factors. The proposed method will be illustrated with applications to simulated and real data.
The analysis of marital interaction in cross-sectional twin data.	The effects on twin data of social interaction between spouses is examined. When social interaction leads to an increase in marital resemblance (eg through reciprocal imitation), the variance of married individuals is increased, compared to the variance of unmarried individuals. Furthermore, the expected correlations between concordant married twin pairs will be lower than the expected correlations between concordant unmarried twin pairs, with the discordant twin correlations being intermediate in value. It is therefore possible, in principle, to detect the effects of marital interaction without using either longitudinal data or data on spouse pairs. However, to be detectable in twin data, marital interaction must be strong, or must exhibit marked asymmetry of effects between males and females. Genotype x environment interaction can also produce heterogeneity of correlation between concordant married, discordant, and concordant unmarried twin pairs, when genetic and environmental effects interact with marital status. However, this will usually produce increased estimates of the genetic component of variance in unmarried twins, whereas marital interaction produces increased genetic variance in married twins.
Spectral analysis of twin time series designs.	The genetic analysis of physiological time series has to accommodate the presence of autocorrelation. This can be accomplished by means of orthogonal transformation of the series, thus enabling the use of standard genetic analysis techniques for the sequence of uncorrelated transforms. In view of the oscillatory character which typifies various physiological time series, it is customary to invoke spectral techniques for the analysis of these series. It can be shown that spectral analysis is an orthogonal transformation that asymptotically resembles principal component analysis. Consequently, standard genetic analysis methods for the uncorrelated spectral transforms may be used. This approach will be illustrated with simulated and real (heart rate) data for univariate twin time series. Furthermore, it will be indicated that the proposed analysis can be readily generalized to multivariate time series.
Histopathological criteria for progressive dementia disorders: clinical-pathological correlation and classification by multivariate data analysis.	Autopsied brains from 55 patients with dementia between 59-95 years of age (mean age 77.9 +/- 8.1 years) and 19 non-demented individuals between 46-91 years of age (mean age 74.3 +/- 10.5 years) were examined to establish histopathological criteria for normal ageing, primary degenerative [Alzheimer's disease (AD)/senile dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT)] and vascular (multi-infarct) dementia (MID) disorders. Senile/neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, microscopic infarcts and perivascular serum protein deposits were quantified in the frontal lobe (Brodmann area 10) and in the hippocampus. The demented patients were classified according to the DSM-III criteria into AD/SDAT and MID. Operationally defined histopathological criteria for dementias, based on the degree/amount of the histopathological changes seen in aged non-demented patients, were postulated. The demented patients were clearly separable into three histopathological types, namely AD/SDAT, MID and AD-MID, the dementia type where both the degenerative and the vascular changes are coexistent in greater extent than are seen in the non-demented individuals. Using general clinical, gross neuroanatomical and histopathological data three separate dementia classes, namely AD/SDAT, MID and AD-MID, were visualized in two-dimensional space by multivariate data analysis. This analysis revealed that the pathology in the AD-MID patients was not merely a linear combination of the pathology in AD/SDAT and MID, indicating that AD-MID might represent a dementia type of its own. The clinical diagnosis for AD/SDAT and MID was certain in only half of the AD/SDAT and one third of the MID cases when evaluated histopathologically and by multivariate data analysis. AD/SDAT, MID and AD-MID were histopathologically diagnosed in 49%, 24% and 27%, respectively, of all the dementia cases studied. Opposite correlation between the number of tangles, plaques and the patient age in non-demented and AD/SDAT cases were observed, indicating that the pathogenesis of tangles and plaques in the two groups of patients might be different and that AD/SDAT might not be a form of an exaggerated ageing process.
Discriminant biochemical markers for evaluating the nutritional status of elderly patients in long-term care.	To determine the most discriminant serum markers of protein-energy status in elderly patients, we performed a discriminant analysis of 85 subjects grouped according to triceps skinfold and midarm circumference values as compared with reference percentiles. Results indicated that neither the classic serum indices of nutritional assessment nor retinol-binding protein can predict undernutrition. However, creatinine, urea, carotene, complement C3, and prealbumin included in a function enabled high discrimination between groups: 68% of subjects in 0-5th percentile for triceps skinfold and 75% of subjects in 0-5th percentile for midarm circumference are correctly predicted. Lower serum concentration was found in the lower anthropometric percentiles except for serum carotene, which showed an inverse relation not explained by diet. We found that nutritional alterations exist in hospitalized elderly patients. We emphasize the importance of considering several biochemical markers for detection of mal-nutrition and the pertinency of further exploration of serum carotene profiles in undernourished elderly patients.
Campylobacter pylori and non-ulcer dyspepsia.	Non-ulcer dyspepsia (NUD) is a poorly understood syndrome often present in association with gastritis. Among patients undergoing gastroscopy, some with NUD have a gastric mucosa colonized by the campylobacter-like organism, Campylobacter pylori. We therefore studied prospectively 55 consecutive patients with NUD and 15 normal controls to determine the prevalence of C. pylori organisms, and to investigate their association with histological gastritis, macroscopic evidence of gastritis, sex, smoking, alcohol consumption, and dyspeptic symptoms. We found a 45.4% prevalence in NUD patients which was statistically significantly higher than the 13.33% prevalence in the control group (p less than 0.05). We also found a close association between C. pylori and microscopic evidence of gastritis (p less than 0.001), male sex (p less than 0.001), and postprandial bloating (p less than 0.05). We did not find any significant association between C. pylori and macroscopic evidence of gastritis, smoking, alcohol consumption and other dyspeptic symptoms. Our findings suggest that C. pylori may play a pathogenic role in NUD.
Methods old and new for analyzing occupational cohort data.	The person-years approach to analyzing mortality data from occupational cohorts was introduced in the midtwentieth century. It cross-classifies all observed deaths and observation times into cells, computes the number of expected deaths for each cell based on referenced mortality rates, and then examines the ratio of total number of observed deaths to total number of expected deaths (the standardized mortality ratio). The maximum likelihood method of statistical inference was developed in the early twentieth century. However, only recently has it been applied to the analysis of occupational cohort data. When so applied, it provides estimates of measures of association between exposures and disease by maximizing the probability of the observed data. This paper shows how recent developments in the use of this tool justify and extend the person-years approach. In particular, problems with the standardized mortality ratio cited in the literature are shown to result from reliance on assumptions that are inappropriate for the data at hand. Methods for testing these assumptions are described. The discussion is illustrated with examples from occupational cohort studies of lung cancer.
Exposure assessment for occupational epidemiology.	Exposure evaluation for epidemiology has special requirements, which can be derived from the pharmacological processes that determine the exposure-effect relationship. Since environmental concentrations of toxic agents typically are highly variable over time, the tissue concentrations they produce will vary over time, and consequently the level of effects will also vary over time. A general, six-step approach is proposed for developing an exposure assessment for an epidemiologic study. This approach uses pharmacologic models to guide the choice of exposure measurement parameters and to guide the epidemiologic data analysis. The approach is illustrated for evaluations of reversible airway effects of ozone and irreversible pulmonary effects of a mixed silica dust. Effect indices are introduced as a means of quantifying the temporal interrelationships of the exposure profiles and the pharmacologic models. These indices have advantages over both dose indices and simple dose-outcome models.
A confidence interval for mutant frequency in assays using microtiter wells.	Previous attempts to derive a confidence interval for the estimated mutant fraction in assays using microtiter wells have not considered the variance introduced by the early growth and dilution steps. We derive a confidence interval that includes these sources of variability.
The effect of non-random migration on genetic differences between populations.	Models of genetic population structure generally assume that emigrants from each local group are drawn at random from the set of individuals born there. We show that small violations of this assumption can have disproportionately large effects on genetic population structure, and we introduce a statistical method for measuring this effect.
Plasma cortisol levels following ethanol in sons of alcoholics and controls.	We used the pattern of change in plasma cortisol level following ethanol challenges to help characterize differences in response to alcohol in sons of alcoholics and controls. Thirty healthy, drinking young adult sons of alcoholics were matched with 30 sons of nonalcoholics on demography, drug use, and alcohol use histories. Each was tested on three occasions, when he received, in random order, placebo, 0.75 mL/kg of ethanol, and 1.1 mL/kg of ethanol. Subsequent blood samples for cortisol determinations were obtained every 30 minutes over the next four hours. The sons of alcoholics, at higher risk for the future development of alcoholism, demonstrated lower cortisol levels after drinking. The data are consistent with our prior measures of self-reported feelings of intoxication and family group differences in ethanol-induced decrements in performance.
Influence of the extent of resection on survival after curative treatment of gastric carcinoma. A retrospective multivariate analysis.	The therapeutic value of extensive gastric resection and regional lymphadenectomy in the curative treatment of gastric adenocarcinoma is controversial. We undertook a retrospective study of 210 patients treated with curative intent from 1960 to 1980. A multivariate survival analysis using the Cox model revealed five significant variables predictive of death from gastric cancer--two inherent pathologic factors: (1) nonpyloric site and (2) metastases in more than three lymph nodes, and three treatment factors that could often be controlled by the surgeon: (3) microscopic positive gastric resection margin, (4) inadequate lymphadenectomy, and (5) total gastrectomy. These observations reaffirm the value of wide gastric resection and adequate lymphadenectomy but argue against a general policy of elective total gastrectomy in the curative treatment of gastric carcinoma.
Multivariate analysis of improvement and outcome following stroke rehabilitation.	This study documented the status of 432 patients and characteristics of functional improvements and outcomes achieved by 163 patients who participated in comprehensive stroke rehabilitation. Scores on the 100-point Activities of Daily Living Index improved from hospital admission to discharge and declined slightly at follow-up. An average Activities of Daily Living Index point gain of 0.6 per day was found that was unrelated to age, sex, side of hemiparesis, or admission functional status. Seventy-nine percent of the patients were discharged home; 85% were home at follow-up. Eleven percent of the patients were working at follow-up. Patients traveled outside their homes an average of 24.6 days during the three months immediately following discharge. A significant number of patients achieved favorable functional housing, employment, and social outcomes. This study supported referral for rehabilitation services regardless of age, side of hemiparesis, or degree of impairment.
Validation of a prognostic index in breast cancer.	The validation of a prognostic index for patients with primary breast cancer is described. The actual survival data in a group of 383 patients was compared with expected survival predicted by an index based on axillary lymph node status, oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor and age. There was no significant difference between actual and predicted deaths for five ranges of index value at 2 years and for the three highest ranges of index value at 5 years. However, in the two lowest ranges, the index significantly underpredicted deaths at 5 years. The Cox proportional hazards model was used to determine if there was any significantly better combination of coefficients and covariates to predict survival in the test group. The original index--1 = N + E + P + A, where N = 0 if no nodes are involved, 13 if one to three nodes are involved, and 31 if more than three nodes are involved; E = 15 if oestrogen receptor value is less than 10 fmol/mg cytosol protein and 0 otherwise; P = 12.5 if progesterone receptor value is less than 10 fmol/mg cytosol protein and 0 otherwise; and A = number of years over age 65--was as good as any competing model in ranking survival prospects in the test group. However, it was a less sensitive predictor in this group than in the original set of patients. A second index based on tumour size, hormone receptor status and age, for use when lymph node status was unavailable, was tested by the same method and validated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An analysis of the severity and incident duration of truck-involved freeway accidents.	Data associated with over 9000 accidents involving large trucks and combination vehicles during a two-year period on freeways in the greater Los Angeles area are analyzed relative to collision factors, accident severity, and incident duration and lane closures. Relationships between type of collision and accident characteristics are explored using log-linear models. The results point to significant differences in several immediate consequences of truck-related freeway accidents according to collision type. These differences are associated both with the severity of the accident, in terms of injuries and fatalities, as well as with the impact of the accident on system performance, in terms of incident duration and lane closures. Hit-object and broadside collisions were the most severe types in terms of fatalities and injuries, respectively, and single-vehicle accidents are relatively more severe than two-vehicle accidents. The durations of accident incidents were found to be log-normally distributed for homogeneous groups of truck accidents, categorized according to type of collision and, in some instances, severity. The longest durations are typically associated with overturns.
Secondary structure predictions and medium range interactions.	Several authors have proposed that predictions of protein secondary structure derived from statistical information about the known structures can be improved when information about neighboring residues participating in short and medium range interactions is included. A substantial improvement shown here indicates that current methods of including this information are not more successful than methods that do not. Evaluations of the Chou and Fasman method (Adv. Enzymol. 47 (1978) 45-148), that does not include information about interactions (except in averaging), have shown it to be about 49% correct for three states (helix, beta-sheet and undefined). In comparison, the method of Garnier et al. (J. Mol. Biol. 120 (1978) 97-120), that explicitly includes information about neighboring residues, has an accuracy of 57% residues correct for three states. However, we have obtained an 8% improvement for predictions of secondary structure based on the algorithm by Chou and Fasman. The improvements are obtained by eliminating many rules and by choosing the best decision constants for structure assignments. The simplified method described here is 57% correct for three states using preference values calculated in 1978.
Myelodysplastic syndromes. A multiparametric study of prognostic factors in 336 patients.	Two groups of patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) were analyzed by univariate (log-rank test) and multivariate (logistic regression) analyses to detect the most important prognostic factors. By stepwise analysis, the variables found to have prognostic significance for death were as follows: age, percentage of marrow blasts, presence of circulating blasts, and number of platelets. The variables found significant for predicting progression to acute leukemia (AL) were as follows: hemoglobin level, percentage of marrow blasts, and presence of circulating blasts. The first group of 193 patients was used to build a prognostic index which reflected the probability of a given patient dying or progressing to AL within 6, 9, or 12 months. The application of this prognostic index to a test group of 143 patients was used to determine the expected error rate and the validity of the prediction rule.
High IgG4 antibody level is associated with failure of immunotherapy with inhalant allergens.	We have analysed all available data on the relationship between IgG4 Ab level and clinical effect of immunotherapy (IT) with inhalant allergens. The data from three of the seven independent studies could, without reservations, be analysed by a joint statistical analysis. We found that late high IgG4 Ab level, measured at the end of IT, was strongly associated with treatment failure (P = 6.54 x 10(5); n = 67). The ratio of risks for treatment success in the group with late low IgG4 Ab level was 1.82, whereas the ratio of risks for treatment failure in the group with late high IgG4 Ab level was 11.4. The data from a fourth, presumably comparable, study further supported the existence of an association between high IgG4 Ab level and treatment failure. In contrast, two other studies found that high mean IgG4 Ab level was associated with good clinical response. Possible reasons for this apparent discrepancy are discussed. We also found that early high IgG4 Ab level, measured within 3 months after initiation of IT, was strongly associated with treatment failure after 1-2 years of IT (P = 1.05 x 10(-4); n = 30). The sensitivity and specificity of early high IgG4 Ab level as indicator for treatment failure was 100% and 83%, respectively. At the prevalences found in the present study, the predictive value of early high IgG4 Ab level for treatment failure was 0.6, whereas the predictive value of early low IgG4 Ab level for treatment success was 1.00.
Free cortisol and creatinine in urine of healthy children.	Cortisol and creatinine were measured in two consecutive overnight urine collections from 103 healthy school children, ages seven to 18.5 years. Mean cortisol and creatinine concentrations were respectively 194 nmol/L and 12.7 mmol/L. The data were statistically analyzed to simultaneously assess any effects of sex, age, weight, day of collection, and urine volume. Mean urine volume for boys exceeded that for girls, increased with body weight, and was greater on the second day of collection than on the first. Cortisol concentration was independent of sex, age, and weight, but decreased with urine volume. Boys excreted more cortisol than did girls, and the amount increased with urine volume. Creatinine concentration increased with weight, decreased with urine volume. Total creatinine increased with weight, was greater for boys than girls, and increased with urine volume. The cortisol/creatinine ratio was valueless as an index of adrenocortical status.
Evaluation of the Hitachi 704 automatic analyzer.	We evaluated the analytical performance of the Hitachi 704 automatic analyzer. The spectrophotometer showed a linearity of response at 340 nm up to 2.8 A. Photometric imprecision measured bichromatically at 340 and 376 nm was 0.49% at 0.16 A, 0.14% at 0.46 A, and 0.17% at 0.76 A. Imprecision of the sample probe was 0.4% for 5, 10, and 20 microL, and the volume delivered deviated -2.4%, -4.4%, and -4.2% from these preset volumes, respectively. Imprecision of the reagent probe over the range 50 to 500 microL ranged from 0.14% to 0.29%; volume delivered deviated from +1.7% to +4.4%). At equilibrium, the temperature in the cuvets was 29.8 (SD 0.05) degree C as measured by cresol red spectrophotometry. No sample carryover was detected. Reagent carryover was detected when a bilirubin assay was preceded by a total protein assay and when lactate dehydrogenase was measured after alanine aminotransferase. Imprecision for nine tests at three concentrations ranged from 1.1% to 4.4%. Comparison of methods with the SMAC II as reference method showed good results. Precision was better than reported for the Hitachi 705 automatic analyzer.
Statistical considerations of the random selection process in a drug-test program.	In a prospective drug-testing program, individuals whose job classifications have been defined as sensitive are placed in a selection pool. Periodically, individuals are chosen from this pool for drug testing. Random selection is a fair and impartial approach for this because each individual has an equal chance of being selected. Random selection also serves to reinforce the deterrent potential of a drug-testing program because individuals in the pool never know when or if they will be selected. This uncertainty discourages drug usage because of the risk involved in being selected and tested. A random selection process generates a Poisson distribution of probabilities that can be used to predict how many times an individual will be selected during a specific time interval. This information can be used to model the selection part of a drug-testing program to determine whether specific conditions of testing are met. For example, the probability of being selected a given number of times during the testing period can be minimized or maximized by varying the frequency of the sampling process. Consequently, the Poisson distribution and the mathematics governing it can be used to structure a drug-testing program to meet the needs of any given situation.
A comparison of statistical techniques for analysis of growth curves.	Frequently, experiments are conducted in order to investigate the effects of various treatments on an animal's growth rate. The data from these investigations usually consist of each animal's body weight or accumulative weight gain at specific times during the experiment. The most common statistical techniques for analysis of growth rates (increments in body weight over time) consider only terminal body weights or final accumulative weight gain. In this study, we compare growth rates over the duration of the experiment and use standard simultaneous testing procedures in order to accommodate more than two treatment groups. Results obtained by comparison of regression lines randomization analysis of variance, and repeated measures analysis are presented.
Measured statistics of laser beam scintillation in strong refractive turbulence relevant to eye safety.	The time series of irradiance from a diverged He-Ne laser were measured using receiver aperture sizes that simulate the day-adapted and night-adapted human pupil. The data are within the saturation-of-scintillation regime wherein the irradiance variance decreases with further increases of propagation distance and refractive turbulence strength. Irradiance probability distributions, as well as the joint statistics of irradiance and duration of large irradiance values, are presented. The ocular hazard contributed by scintillation is found to decrease with increases of range and/or refractive turbulence strength; this effect is independent of the decrease of mean irradiance associated with such increases of range and refractive turbulence strength.
Morphological predictors of survival in colorectal carcinoma: univariate and multivariate analysis.	In 150 curative resected adenocarcinomas of the large bowel we analyzed the morphological parameters of the primary tumor and lymph node involvement which most efficiently expressed the relationship to survival time. Using univariate survival analysis (product limit estimator according Kaplan-Meier), several macroscopical and microscopical parameters of the primary tumor and lymph node involvement significantly correlated with survival time. A multivariate survival analysis of covariates according to the Cox regression model revealed that the significant correlations of all these parameters were expressed by a set of five variables: pT stage, number of inflammatory cells, sex, age, and pN stage. As shown by the Kaplan-Meier test, this set of variables allowed a more precise prediction of survival time than mere staging according to the TNM system. Parametric multiple stepwise survival analysis was inefficient. No distinct relationship was found between the morphology of the primary tumor and the involvement of lymph nodes.
The prevalence of allergic skin test reactivity to eight common aeroallergens in the U.S. population: results from the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.	Immediate hypersensitivity skin tests to eight select allergens were performed on a sample (N = 16,204) of the civilian noninstitutional population of the United States, 6 to 74 years of age, in the second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II). The eight allergens were house dust, cat, dog, Alternaria, mixed giant/short ragweed, oak, perennial ryegrass, and Bermuda grass. Skin test reactivity was defined as a mean erythema diameter greater than or equal to 10.5 mm at the 20-minute reading. Overall, 20.2% of the participants reacted to at least one allergen. Peak reactivity occurred in the 12 to 24-year-old age group. Reactivity was higher in blacks versus whites, but the difference did not reach statistical significance (23.2% versus 19.8%; p greater than 0.05). Male participants had an increased prevalence of reactivity versus female participants in whites (22.0% versus 17.6%), but not in blacks (23.2% versus 23.3%). Skin test reactivity increased in both whites and blacks with increasing income and education. The prevalence of skin test reactivity was higher in urban versus rural areas, but the difference was statistically significant only for whites (whites, 21.6% versus 16.4%; blacks, 23.8% versus 18.4%; p greater than 0.05). With logistic regression, the most important predictors of skin test reactivity in whites were age, sex, urban residence, and poverty status. In blacks, the most important predictors were age, urban residence, and poverty status.
Retreatment with argon laser trabeculoplasty.	Forty eyes in 37 patients that had previously successful 360 degrees argon laser trabeculoplasty were again found to have uncontrolled intraocular pressure (IOP) on maximally tolerated medical therapy and were retreated with argon laser trabeculoplasty to 180 degrees of the trabecular circumference. Successful retreatment was considered a decrease in IOP of 3 mmHg or more and sufficient to avoid further laser therapy or invasive glaucoma surgery. Laser trabeculoplasty retreatment was successful in 13 of the eyes treated (32%). Retreatment failed to control IOP in 27 of the retreated eyes (68%): either the IOP was not lowered by at least 3 mmHg (4 eyes) or the eyes required further laser therapy or surgery (23 eyes). The probability of successful IOP control 1 year after retreatment was 33% and only 14% after 1.75 years. No IOP elevations greater than 6 mmHg were recognized in the postlaser period. Although retreatment with argon laser trabeculoplasty can safely be used to control the IOP in some glaucomatous eyes, the likelihood of success is low.
Smoking patterns among social contacts of smokers, ex-smokers, and never smokers: the Doctors Helping Smokers Study.	Smoking status of spouses/partners and other social contacts was examined among 5,241 adults who had recently visited a family physician. Associations between smoking status and proportion of social contacts who smoke among men and women of three different age groups were assessed by analysis of covariance, with age and education as covariates. The proportion of smoking contacts was found to be greatest for smokers, less for ex-smokers, and least for never smokers. Comparison of data across four types of social contacts by smoking groups suggests that, in general, the social contacts of ex-smokers more strongly resemble those of never smokers than those of current smokers. The results suggest that smokers desiring to become nonsmokers need to enlarge their social group to include more nonsmoking contacts, as well as to learn and use coping strategies to prevent relapse in the presence of smokers.
Mixing one part common sense with each part statistics in planning the design and reporting the results of clinical research in physical therapy.	The purpose of this article is to discuss the importance of clinical research to improve the quality of clinical practice in physical therapy. Research is the process of posing an important, answerable question and collecting data to provide a convincing answer. Many of the manuscripts I reviewed for possible publication during the recent several years I was an Associate Editor contained one or more flaws that impaired the credibility of the study being reported. One of the flaws was inadequate identification of the research question and the measurements needed to collect the data that would answer the question; a second was insufficient rounding of the numbers used to convey the results; a third was misapplication of arithmetic operations to nominal or ordinal data; and another was the extrapolation of results from healthy young volunteers to explain why a particular treatment should or should not be effective in treating a pathological condition. I urge that physical therapy researchers learn to conduct indepth, thoughtfully guided studies to define the indicators that can be used to predict when a particular patient will respond favorably to a particular therapeutic intervention. Successful accomplishment of such studies will have a substantial and lasting impact on the efficacy and quality of physical therapy practice.
A longitudinal study of the age dependence of human ocular refraction--II. Prediction of future trends in medium and high myopia by means of cluster analysis.	A sample population of myopes with an initial correction of 2 DS or more is extracted from the longitudinal sample of ametropes reported by Saunders (1986). The myopes are partitioned by means of cluster analysis and, as a result, three distinct groups of myopes are identified. The time/regression equations which best describe the groups are stated. It is concluded that meaningful long-term prognosis of medium and high myopes is unlikely and that reasonable prediction of short-term trends requires at least two consecutive refraction data to determine the group allocation of a myope.
Statistical aspects of clinical trials of antibiotics in acute infections.	Controlled clinical trials are important tools for evaluating antibiotics in acute infections. External and internal validity, definition of efficacy criteria, and size of the patient sample constitute special statistical problems in such studies. Critical issues regarding external validity pertain to the selection of patients and to the concept of consecutive patients. The internal validity of a study is influenced by the withdrawal of patients from the evaluation after randomization and the comparability of treatment groups with regard to prognostic factors. The definition of efficacy criteria on the basis of bacteriologic outcomes across control visits is not straightforward. Particularly, the evaluation of efficacy at the last follow-up visit must take into account the accumulated information rather than the cross-sectional information. The most common situation in comparative trials of antibiotics is that rather small differences in efficacy can be anticipated. Sometimes, the question at issue is the demonstration of antibiotic equivalence. For valid conclusions to be made in such situations, large samples must be used. A basic problem affecting many studies of antibiotics is that this criterion is not fulfilled.
Data management in schistosomiasis control programmes.	Adequate data recording, processing, analysis and evaluation are all components of data management within schistosomiasis control programmes oriented towards reduction of morbidity. Without data management, the response to operational questions will remain subjective and vague. Different types of data related to the population and the environment are reviewed. Examples of data format and presentation are given. The importance of data management for proper short and long term evaluation of control measures is emphasized.
Day hospital fees and accessibility of essential health services.	Day hospital fee increases in April 1984 were followed by a fall in hypertensive, diabetic and asthmatic patients' attendances at the Bishop Lavis Day Hospital. The majority of the patients attending less often for treatment were not receiving medical care elsewhere, which resulted in a large number of hospital admissions with increased financial and long-term health costs for the patients. Increases in patient fees at the day hospitals have been far in excess of the inflation rate over the past 10 years, and a review of the tariff structure is required to bring fees to levels which are affordable by low-income patients.
Histopathological predictive factors in Ewing's sarcoma of bone and clinicopathological correlations. A retrospective study of 261 cases.	A retrospective multifactorial analysis on 261 previously untreated patients with Ewing's sarcoma (Es) of bone has been carried out in order to ascertain the prognostic value of several histological variables on survival. Among those cases accepted as Es, 208 (80% of the patients) were considered to be "typical Es", while 40 (15%) displayed a large cell predominance, being subclassified as "atypical large cell Es". Furthermore, 13 patients (5%) possessed tumours of endothelial-like appearance. Eleven cases which displayed a mixed histological configuration were finally included within one of the three previous groups according to their predominant histological pattern. After adjustment for therapeutic regimens and initial location of the tumour, only two histological characteristics remain significant; i.e. the presence of necrosis (p = 0.002) and, to a lesser degree, the presence of filagree "en damier" pattern (p = 0.08), both of which are of poor prognostic value. From this study, it can be assumed that the morphological (and possibly histogenetical) heterogeneity of Es of bone has no prognostic influence on survival.
The offspring of twins as sampling units in pedigree analysis of congenital anomalies.	A statistical model was developed to determine the likelihood of a twin kinship, that is, the offspring of a pair of monozygotic or dizygotic twins under three types of inheritance: sporadic, single locus fetal genetic, and single locus maternal genetic. Samples of 8,000 kinships were simulated for a discrete trait under various hypotheses, and the likelihood determined for each type of etiology. The results indicated that the pedigree analysis procedures formulated here could efficiently detect sporadic or single locus effects with a power approaching 100%, although the parameter estimates obtained were slightly biased. Further analyses revealed that the type of pedigree analysis formulated in this study was found to have equivalent power for equal or unequal frequencies of kinships by the sex and zygosity of the twin parent. It was suggested that further studies be carried out that included the twins and spouses in the likelihood equations, as well as tests of more sophisticated models.
The secular trend of twinning in Australia, 1853-1982.	The incidence of twinning in Australia from 1853 to 1982 is described. The overall trend was determined by changes in the dizygotic rate and, for more than a century, it has been similar to that found in Finland and the South of Italy. It is not explained by demographic changes and there is no clear relationship with industrialisation or psychosocial factors. Monozygotic twinning has increased, most markedly in the 1970s. No adequate explanation has been given for this increase, so continuing surveillance in many different populations is necessary.
Biostatistical study on the arrangement of the superficial veins of the cubital fossa in Iraqis.	A study of the arrangement of the superficial veins of the cubital fossa was made on 300 students and staff of the Military Medical College and the AlMustansiriya College of Medicine. Six types of variations of arrangement of the veins were found, two of which have not been mentioned before. The commonest type was that the median vein of the forearm divides in the cubital fossa into 2 veins, one of which joins the basilic vein, and the other the cephalic vein, although in a few cases this joining (or arrangement), occurred above the cubital fossa. The arrangements which have not been mentioned before were that the communication between basilic and cephalic veins was through a horizontal venous connection between 1 of the tributaries of these 2 veins and the basilic vein, and that the median vein of the forearm divides into median cephalic and median basilic, and a vein from the front of the forearm drains into the median basilic vein.
The exposure odds ratio in nested case-control studies with competing risks.	A nested case-control study, also known as an ambidirectional study, is a case-control study within a cohort study. Although distortion by competing risks is well-recognized in follow-up studies, the problem has not been as widely appreciated in nested case-control studies. This paper extends previous work concerning the bias associated with competing risks for nested case-control studies. Specifically, the distorting effect of competing risks is illustrated for three methods of control selection. Assuming the proportional hazards model, the authors derived formulas for the bias of the odds ratio when competing risks cannot be ignored. Examples illustrate the magnitude of bias that occurs when the exposure of interest is associated with competing causes of death or withdrawal.
Matched case-control designs and overmatched analyses.	In a 1:1 matched-pairs case-control study, several pairs may have the same matching criteria. The objective of this paper is to consider various analytic approaches for odds ratio estimation in this situation. One approach is to perform the usual matched-pairs analysis; the alternative is to combine pairs into strata and compute the conditional maximum likelihood or Mantel-Haenszel estimate. Matched-pairs analysis based on theoretic and simulation results may give misleading inferences, although on average it performs nearly as well as the stratified analysis. The occasional poor performance of the matched-pairs analysis results from the possibility of obtaining an extreme number of discordant pairs due to the random pairing within a stratum. It is concluded that the prudent policy is to perform a stratified rather than a paired analysis, even at the expense of additional computation.
Comparison of three algorithms used to evaluate adverse drug reactions.	The consistency of three algorithms in evaluating adverse drug reactions (ADRs) was studied. As part of a hospital's ADR protocol, doctor of pharmacy students were required to collect and summarize all ADR data. Algorithms by Kramer, Naranjo, and Jones were used to evaluate all ADRs between January and May 1984. Kramer's algorithm was used for every reported ADR; Naranjo's and Jones' algorithms were used to check consistency in scoring among ADRs already scored with the Kramer algorithm. The two numerical scales (Kramer and Naranjo) were compared using linear regression. The results of all three algorithms were translated into categories of suspicion (A = definite or probable; B = probable; C = possible; and D = unlikely, doubtful, or remote) and evaluated for consistency with a weighted kappa (kw) statistical test. A total of 28 ADRs were evaluated, and the correlation (r = 0.87) between the total numerical scores of the Kramer and Naranjo algorithms was significant. Comparison of the Kramer and Naranjo algorithms showed 67% agreement with a kw value of 0.43 (-1 = perfect disagreement and +1 = perfect agreement). Similarly, there was 67% agreement (kw = 0.48) between Kramer's algorithm and Jones' algorithm. Agreement between Naranjo's and Jones's algorithms was 64%, but the kw value was only 0.28. The simpler and less time-consuming Naranjo algorithm compared favorably with the Kramer algorithm in scoring ADRs; more data are needed to support the use of the Jones algorithm.
Factors affecting pregnancy rates in a donor insemination program using frozen semen.	The results of therapy of 226 women receiving frozen and fresh donor semen are reported. Overall, 45.6% of patients conceived with a monthly fecundability of 0.102. The effect of a variety of factors on fertility rates was analyzed in life-table analysis of 1000 cycles. Optimal pregnancy rates were obtained in couples with azoospermia (0.17) or no female infertility factors (0.2). Patients with ovulatory dysfunction treated with clomiphene also had optimal pregnancy rates (0.17 per cycle). Endometriosis reduced fecundability significantly (0.04 per cycle). There was no significant difference in pregnancy rates per cycle between fresh (0.12) and frozen (0.09) semen. Acceptable pregnancy rates were obtained with frozen semen therapy and in patients with treated ovulatory dysfunction.
Effect of maternal-fetal disorders on lung maturation. I. Diabetes mellitus.	Amniotic fluid for fetal lung maturity studies was obtained from 287 healthy and 198 diabetic women. Classes of diabetes were as follows: Class A, 111; Class B, 58; Class C, 13; Class D, 11; Class F, 4; and Class R, 1. The regression lines representing the relationship of amniotic fluid lecithin phosphorus concentration to gestational age at amniocentesis in each of the groups of diabetic patients were not statistically different from those of the control subjects. Each of the diabetic patients was then matched with a control subject of the same race, sex of newborn infant, and gestational age at amniocentesis. The regression lines of the nonhypertensive, hypertensive, and all diabetics were not different from those of their respective matched control subjects. Also there was no difference in the proportion of mature lecithin phosphorus concentrations at different weeks between diabetic and normal women. The absence of a significant influence of diabetes on fetal lung maturation is probably due to improvement in diabetic control resulting in normalization of the fetal metabolic environment.
Spectrum and frequency of use of statistical techniques in psychiatric journals.	Educators in psychiatry face an important challenge in deciding what quantitative skills to teach and where in the educational agenda to teach them. One strategy is to focus the quantitative training of psychiatrists on techniques they need to be effective consumers of their literature. The authors catalogued the statistical methods described in 15 major psychiatric journals during 1983 and 1984. A dozen procedures, typically encountered in intermediate-level statistics courses, accounted for approximately 95% of all the statistical methods reported. Readers of psychiatric journals also routinely encounter multivariate, nonparametric, and categorization techniques. Educators might apply these results in designing exposure to statistical skills for future psychiatrists.
Two simple methods of spatial analysis and their applications in location-oriented health services research.	This paper illustrates the usefulness of cartographic and centrographic methods in examining the locational characteristics of health care resources, such as specialist physicians' offices. Cartographic analysis involving map comparisons not only describes the nature of particular spatial patterns, but it also suggests relevant hypotheses on the basis of observed locational relationships among the mapped phenomena. Centrographic analysis generally substantiates the findings of simple map analysis by providing certain objective quantitative measures regarding the basic characteristics of a point distribution; additionally, it generates a graphic summary, the Standard Deviational Ellipse (SDE), which offers a convenient means for direct comparison of multiple spatial patterns. The essentially complementary nature of the two methods is highlighted, and it is concluded that they are most useful when used in conjunction with one another.
Maturity of fetal lungs determined by bubble stability in amniotic fluid.	A simple and quick screening method to determine fetal lung maturity is tested. Artificial air bubbles in amniotic fluid are measured microscopically in a moist chamber. Thus the concentration of the lung surfactant is evaluated and presented by the stability index (SI). This index increases continuously during pregnancy and is used as a means to determine fetal lung maturity. The large standard deviation of the SI between 30 and 35 weeks gestation limits the application of this simple method.
The dilemma of less than 500 grams birth: epidemiologic considerations.	The reporting practice of perinatal data of less than 500 gm is widely inconsistent. This is due mainly to the differences in reporting requirements and ambiguity in the definition of live births, stillbirths and abortions. To evaluate the magnitude a birthweight of less than 500 gm has on a regional perinatal network's vital statistics, we studied race and weight specific data from a cohort of 48,096 births over a 2-year period. One hundred and ten (0.23%) births weighed less than 500 gm, 60 of them were live births occurring at a mean gestation of 22.3 +/- 3 weeks, all of whom died. Blacks had the highest rates for other adverse perinatal outcome measures as well as significantly higher incidence of birthweights less than 500 gm (0.3%), compared to whites and Hispanics, 0.17 and 0.21%, respectively (P less than 0.001). Although they constituted a small fraction of the total births in all ethnic groups, infants weighing less than 500 gm accounted for a significant proportion, 18 and 21%, of the perinatal and neonatal mortality rates (PMR and NMR). These proportions were much higher in the black subgroup. We conclude that major discrepancies in reporting of vital data concerning these infants could affect the vital rates significantly. The effect is not uniform, since the subsets with a high incidence of infants weighing less than 500 gm will have far more variations. This must be considered when comparative epidemiologic studies of perinatal outcome are carried out.
A simplified risk-scoring system for prematurity.	Prematurity, the major cause of perinatal morbidity and mortality, results from a multifactorial interaction of medical, historic, and psychosocial conditions. Although the literature contains several reports of prematurity risk-scoring systems, the relative importance of specific risk factors may depend on the population studied. This report represents the first prematurity risk-scoring system designed specifically for a predominantly Hispanic population in the United States. Retrospective analysis of 8240 births occurring at Harbor/UCLA Medical Center from July, 1979 to December, 1982 identified maternal prenatal risk factors that were found to be statistically related to prematurity. A linear logistic regression model was then employed to derive a composite risk score. Using the logistic risk scores, we developed a simplified model for identifying women at risk for preterm birth. The methodology and analyses provide a system for the development of population-specific risk scoring.
Multivariate approach to the analysis of the growth processes in the peripuberty period of human ontogeny]	Factor analysis by principal components with the Warimax rotation has been conducted on 26 anthropometric traits of 2200 children aged 6.75 to 17.25. Mean values of traits have been calculated at half-year intervals within each sex. Two orthogonal components accounting 96.5% of the total variation have been chosen. Individual factor values have been analysed to determine their relationship with age. The classification of objects is constructed by the cluster analysis in the space of factors. Four different morphological types within each sex have been found. The age limits between the revealed clusters differ for both sexes.
The contribution of cytochemistry and immunophenotyping to the reproducibility of the FAB classification in acute leukemia.	Intraobserver and interobserver reproducibility of the FAB classification was assessed for two independent observers whose decisions are acted on for treatment of patients with acute leukemia in the Hamilton region. Intraobserver reproducibility was assessed for Wright-stained preparations that were examined independently on two consecutive occasions at least 2 weeks apart. A third reading was performed with Wright stain and cytochemical data, and the fourth reading was done with addition of immunophenotype data. Concordance was calculated using a statistic that corrects for chance-expected agreement (k), and a weighted statistic that takes into account the seriousness of disagreements was used. Samples were available for morphological and cytochemical assessment on 105 patients, and immunophenotype data were available on 93 specimens. Intraobserver concordance was 64.8% and 70.5% for observers A and B, respectively, with kappa values of .56 and .62. There were 37 discordant readings for observer A and 31 for observer B, with each observer discordant between lymphocytic:nonlymphocytic phenotypes in ten cases. Concordance between observers was 63% (k = .54) and 72% (k = .65) for each of two separate readings for Wright-stained preparations only. Reproducibility improved to 89% (k = .86) when cytochemistry was added. When immunophenotype information was provided in addition to Wright-stained and cytochemical preparations, the agreement was 99%. Lymphocytic:nonlymphocytic discordance between observers occurred on nine occasions when Wright-stained preparations only were available and four times when cytochemistry was added; it did not occur with immunophenotyping. The study suggests that immunophenotyping, when added to morphological assessment of acute leukemia, may contribute substantially to agreement between observers.
Unmet psychological, social, and economic needs of persons with cancer in Pennsylvania.	Six hundred twenty-nine persons with cancer (PWC) selected from the Pennsylvania Cancer Registry plus 397 nonprofessional (support) persons involved in their care (SP) were interviewed to determine their views of the unmet psychological, social and economic needs of PWC. The most frequently mentioned unmet need was for help in dealing with emotional problems (estimated at 25% of PWC state-wide). Other unmet need estimates ranged from 14% for financial to 4% for transportation, with 59% of PWC reporting at least one unmet need. Characteristics of PWC reporting unmet needs included being younger, a history of emotional problems, a chronic illness in addition to cancer, more advanced stage at diagnosis, and a diagnosis of lung cancer. The percent of PWC and CP reporting unmet needs were very similar. These findings indicate that more effective screening for psychosocial problems and referral to supportive services is needed.
Multifactorial analysis of survival in thyroid cancer. Pitfalls of applying the results of published studies to another population.	Multifactorial analyses (MFAs) of survival data of thyroid carcinoma patients have already been published by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer EORTC, the Institut Curie (IC), and the Institut Gustave Roussy (IGR). The aim of this study was to find out if the results obtained in these MFAs could be applied to a new population of 480 patients. To determine this, three MFAs were carried out on the new population. Each of these MFAs is based on exactly the same methodology as one of the three reference studies. Using the EORTC methodology, five significant factors were retained: age, principal cell type, anaplastic, T-category, and metastatic sites (The significant factors in the EORTC study also included the sex factor, which was not significant for the current study). Using their own prognostic index instead of the EORTC index, gave the authors a better classification of the patients and better survival prediction. Using the IC methodology, four significant factors were retained: age, histology, T-category, and metastatic sites (the significant factors in the IC study were age, histology and sex). Using the IGR methodology, two significant factors were retained: age and N-category (the significant factors in the IGR study also included sex and histology). The authors' results differ from those published by the previous groups. Therefore, one should hesitate before applying the results obtained by other groups for thyroid carcinoma to another population. It would seem necessary to carry out one's own MFA before determining a prognostic index.
The correlation of pretreatment transurethral resection of prostatic cancer with tumor dissemination and disease-free survival. A univariate and multivariate analysis.	A multivariate Cox's hazard function analysis was performed on the prognostic variables selected from 240 patients with localized carcinoma of the prostate who received external beam radiotherapy to analyze the association between the method of biopsy and disease-free survival. The patients received 4500 cGy to the pelvis followed by a 2-week treatment rest and then an additional 2000 cGy to the reduced prostatic volume. Median follow-up was 4 years (range, 1-9 years). The 5-year actuarial local control rate was 91%. There was no difference in local control relative to the method of biopsy (needle biopsy or transurethral resection of the prostate [TURP]). The 5-year actuarial risks of metastases were 28% and 48% for the needle biopsy and TURP groups, respectively (P less than 0.01). The 5-year disease-free survival for the needle biopsy and TURP groups were 55% and 42%, respectively (P less than 0.05). This difference maintained statistical significance for Stage C and Grade III tumors. A multivariate analysis demonstrated that "method of biopsy" was the third most powerful variable after serum acid phosphatase level and modified Broders' grade in predicting disease-free survival. Patients who had TURP had an almost twofold higher relative risk of disease progression than those who had needle biopsy. This study established the correlation of the method of biopsy with a lower probability of disease-free survival over and above the information obtained from the clinical stage, histologic grade, presence or absence of symptoms of obstruction, acid phosphatase level, and lymph node status. The association of TURP with tumor dissemination is discussed with reference to the mechanism of metastasis formation and prevention.
Comparing predictive decision rules in postoperative CEA monitoring.	To evaluate the usefulness of serial postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) assays, seven previously published decision rules for predicting tumor recurrence were compared retrospectively using CEA values from 214 patients followed 36 to 120 months after surgery for colorectal carcinoma. Decision rules employing cutoff values to predict tumor recurrence were found inadequate for the asymptomatic patient. This attenuation of prognostic usefulness appeared attributable to inadequacies of CEA assays for predicting late recurrences. From these analyses, elevated CEA results without other objective evidence might be insufficient to justify second-look surgery. In addition, late recurring tumors tended not to cause elevated CEA levels.
Pharmacokinetic interactions of cyclophosphamide and 5-fluorouracil with methotrexate in an animal model.	In tumor-bearing WAG/Rij rats the interaction of cyclophosphamide and/or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) with methotrexate as manifested at the pharmacokinetic level was studied. Four groups were formed of at least ten animals. The control group, which received single-agent methotrexate, was compared with groups that received methotrexate plus cyclophosphamide, methotrexate plus 5-FU, and methotrexate plus cyclophosphamide plus 5-FU. There appeared to be an increase of 40% in the clearance of methotrexate by the triple combination. Cyclophosphamide especially diminished the terminal part of the concentration-time curve of methotrexate.
External quality assessment of assays of lead in blood.	The operation and results of the United Kingdom External Quality Assessment Scheme for Lead in Blood, which currently has about 140 participants within and outside the U.K. are described. The choice of specimens, scheme design, and scoring of performance are discussed, as is the validity of the consensus values used as a basis for the scoring. There has been a continued improvement in performance as assessed by this program, some of which appears to have been stimulated by the introduction of Variance Index scoring. The relative performance of the methods for assaying lead in blood is also examined.
Comments on methods and results in: Sherman et al., "Segregation analysis of balanced pericentric inversions in pedigree data".	The analysis by Sherman et al. (1986), its basis and results have been examined. The analysis relies on general methods, which may give acceptable results under the special conditions considered by the authors, but will usually produce more or less misleading results. The program POINTER (Lalouel & Morton 1981) is shown to be based partly on a chain of irrelevant arguments for the actual context. The so-called "conventional ascertainment rules" (Morton et al. 1983) are shown to produce misleading results in cases where their assumptions are not satisfied. The mean risk for unbalanced offspring is underestimated because of an erroneous ascertainment correction. The segregation frequencies are found to be different in three national samples, contrary to the claim by Sherman et al. Only a small proportion of all information available in the data has been utilized. Alternative and more appropriate models, hypotheses and procedures have been suggested. The frequent use of packages with computer programmes of standard statistical procedures in nonstandard situations with data from collaborative studies in human cytogenetics is discussed.
Computerized comparison of six adverse drug reaction assessment procedures.	Several standardized assessment procedures are currently used in the evaluation of adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Disagreement in rating ADRs can result from between-raters variability and between-methods differences in weighting the evidence. We eliminated between-raters variability by computer simulation of 1134 ADRs (including all the possible combinations of criteria currently used) and by automatic rating using different algorithms adapted from six published methods. Percentage agreement (Po) and weighted kappa test (kappa w) between pairs of methods are always better than with randomized scores, but the strength of agreement is only moderate (0.26 less than Po less than 0.59; 0.14 less than kappa w less than 0.51). The weightings of criteria are evaluated in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values. Criteria are neither sensitive (0.41 less than Se less than 0.70) nor specific (0.18 less than Sp less than 0.63) and have poor predictive values. Disagreements on weightings are considerable for three major criteria: timing of event, dechallenge, and alternative etiologic candidates. We discuss some ways of improving reliability of ADR diagnosis.
Examination of the generalized age distribution.	The formula for the age distribution and other relationships that follow from it for any (non-stable) population presented by Preston and Coale are significant contributions to demography. The formulas summarize the relationships among various demographic measures precisely, and are formally analogous to the relationships that hold for stable populations. The significance of these formulas cannot be overstated; they allow us to understand clearly the relationships among demographic measures in any arbitrary population. However, when it comes to using them for estimating demographic measures when census data are defective, the method of estimation is still affected by defective data. The reason is that the series of age-specific growth rates reflects the observed census age distributions exactly so that any defects in the census data are summarized in the growth rates. This paper begins with the formulation of the discrete version of the "new synthesis" developed by Preston and Coale. With the discrete formulation, the three kinds of errors introduced when the continuous time formulas are applied to real data can be avoided. Then it is pointed out that when two accurate census data are available, the Preston-Coale procedure of "estimating" the age distribution at the second census is equivalent to checking the identity of the age distribution formula. Also "estimating" mortality by the procedure of Preston-Coale is shown to be equivalent to obtaining mortality directly from intercensal survival rates. That the procedure which involves the age-specific growth rates is equivalent to those that involve the intercensal survival rates may have escaped notice because there are no a priori constraints for patterns of age-specific growth rates to follow. The irregularity in growth rates due to defective data are not distinguishable from true irregularity that exists in the population, contrary to the well-known regularity in the pattern of survival rates in human populations.
Trends of mortality from cirrhosis in France between 1925 and 1982]	In 1982, 13,866 deaths secondary to cirrhosis were reported. Between 1925 and 1982, the number of deaths increased by 163 p. 100. This overall change was observed gradually: profound drop in the cirrhosis mortality rate during the Second World War, increase between 1945 and 1967, stabilization between 1967 and 1975 and more pronounced decline from then on. Cirrhosis mortality rate per 100,000 increased from 9.17 to 28.21 (+208 p. 100) in males and from 3.63 to 10.38 (+186 p. 100) in females from 1945 to 1982. The increase was approximately the same whatever the age. A cohort effect was observed in both sexes. There were two successive waves of increased mortality separated by an interval of non augmentation for the cohorts born between 1906 and 1915 and between 1931 and 1940. Since 1967, mortality due to cirrhosis has stopped increasing in both sexes. These changes may be related to decreasing alcohol consumption in France, certainly one of the major objectives in present day health programs. Abrupt reduction of alcohol consumption should be followed by a dramatic fall in the number of deaths from cirrhosis. Progressive decline of consumption is possibly associated with a decrease in the incidence of the disease. In 2,000, the rate for cirrhosis mortality is expected to be the same as that observed in the middle of the 20th century.
Sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of the secretin infusion test in the diagnosis of gastrinoma.	From 1974 to 1981, 55 patients, 18 with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) histologically confirmed and 37 patients with duodenal ulcer (DU) without pylorostenosis were followed for a minimal period of 5 years. The diagnostic values of a) basal acid output (BAO mEq/h); b) 60 min acid output after secretin infusion, 3 CU-GIH/kg, (MAO-SE mEq/h); c) basal serum gastrin (BSG pg/ml: mean of 4 gastrin determinations) and d) serum gastrin after secretin (SG-SE pg/ml: mean of 4 gastrin determinations during secretin infusion) were calculated. Cut off point values of 100 p. 100 specificity (i. e. no DU patient reached these values) with a positive predictive value of 100 p. 100 (i. e. probability for gastrinoma when this cut off point was attained) were BAO greater than 26 mEq/h, MAO-SE greater than 18 mEq/h, BSG greater than 221 pg/ml, SG-SE greater than 186 pg/ml. The sensitivities of these parameters (i. e. percent of ZES which reached the given cut off point) were respectively (p. 100): 39, 78, 72 and 94. Ranking these parameters according to their own discriminative value expressed by R2 (square correlation coefficient) gave SG-SE, R2 = 0.559; BSG, R2 = 0.508; MAO-SE, R2 = 0.456; BAO, R2 = 0.414. The most discriminative association of 2 variables was SG-SE and MAO-SE (R2 = 0.650). Association of SG-SE, MAO-SE and BAO or BSG (or BAO and BSG) did not increase significantly the discrimination between ZES and DU (R2 = 0.672).
The concept of visual field indices.	Statistical methods for the evaluation of quantitative visual fields are presented in addition to a mathematical description of the calculation of different visual field indices. The "mean defect" is important for diffuse damage as well as for follow-up in advanced stages. "Short-term fluctuation" provides information about the reliability of the results as well as about possible early damage. "Corrected loss variance" quantifies local defects in an early stage; it also separates real local defects from increased scatter. "Skewness" is a test for very early local defects, and "spatial correlation" provides a measurement of the clustering of any local defects that may be present.
Regression of posterior uveal malignant melanomas after cobalt plaque radiotherapy.	We reviewed the records of 17 patients with posterior uveal malignant melanoma who had been followed for at least 3 months prior to cobalt plaque radiotherapy and whose tumor had been documented to enlarge in thickness during that interval. We evaluated the relationship between the rates of pretreatment tumor enlargement and post-treatment tumor shrinkage using linear regression analysis. We found that the rate of postirradiation tumor shrinkage correlated strongly with the rate of preirradiation tumor enlargement regardless of whether the pretreatment rate of growth was slow, intermediate or rapid. We speculate that the more rapidly regressing tumors were more mitotically active than their more slowly regressing counterparts. If true, the survival rate of patients whose posterior uveal malignant melanomas regress rapidly following radiation therapy may prove to be worse than that of patients whose tumors regress slowly.
Prognostic value of the aminopyrine breath test in cirrhotic patients.	The aminopyrine breath test has been proposed as a quantitative test of hepatic function, but its long-term prognostic value in patients with cirrhosis has not been determined. The aim of this study was to examine the usefulness of the aminopyrine breath test in assessing prognosis and to compare it with traditional methods of evaluating liver function. One-hundred eighty-seven patients with histologically confirmed cirrhosis were studied prospectively. An aminopyrine breath test was obtained at the time of inclusion in the study and results were expressed as per cent of the dose excreted in 2 hr. At inclusion, the severity of liver disease was also assessed according to the Pugh modification of the Child-Turcotte classification based on ascites, neurological status, serum albumin, serum bilirubin and prothrombin time. Mean follow-up was 844 days. During that period, 59 of 187 patients died of their liver disease. Two-year survival decreased with increasing Child-Turcotte classification score: survival was 98% in Child Class A patients (n = 62), 66% in Child Class B (n = 76) and 36% in Child Class C (n = 49) (chi 2 = 65.6, p less than 0.001). Two-year survival also decreased significantly with increasing degree of aminopyrine breath test abnormalities: survival was 90% in patients with aminopyrine breath test greater than 4% (n = 56); 78% in patients with aminopyrine breath test = 2 to 4% (n = 66), and 43% in patients with aminopyrine breath test less than 2% (n = 65) (chi 2 = 36.9, p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Factors affecting hospitalization for selected diseases in Israel.	Hospitalization rates in Israel for five communicable and four noncommunicable diseases were computed according to age, sex, religion, origin, and place of residence. Higher rates for communicable diseases were generally found for all males and for Oriental Jews and Jews living in rural areas. Higher rates were also found for settlements inhabited by low socioeconomic populations. With few exceptions, hospitalization rates for Arabs were higher for both communicable and noncommunicable diseases, but rates for rural Arab populations were very low. These findings suggest that in a society such as Israel's, with a well-developed medical care delivery system, improvement in the health status of less privileged groups will depend more on health education than on the addition of resources to the health delivery system.
Hospital output forecasts and the cost of empty hospital beds.	This article investigates the cost incurred when hospitals have different levels of beds to treat a given number of patients. The cost of hospital care is affected by both the forecasted level of admissions and the actual number of admissions. When the relationship between forecasted and actual admissions is held constant, it is found that an empty hospital bed at a typical hospital in Michigan has a relatively low cost, about 13 percent or less of the cost of an occupied bed. However, empty beds in large hospitals do add significantly to cost. If hospital beds are closed, whether by closing beds at hospitals which remain in business or by closing entire hospitals, cost savings are estimated to be small.
Single-subject evaluation in health education.	The utilization of single-subject methodology represents a means to improve evaluation efforts in health education. This article provides a rationale for the application of the methodology in health education evaluation. Two variations of the single-subject evaluation methodology (ABAB and multiple baseline) are described. Appropriate methods of data analysis are recommended. Applications of single-subject designs in health education settings are presented. Dilemmas in health education evaluation are identified and reviewed in light of the potential contributions of single-subject methodology.
Repeated measurement: sensitive tests for experiments with few animals.	Animal scientists who conduct experiments involving repeated measurements of animals often are frustrated by low statistical power of tests for comparisons of treatment means. In many cases, low power of the traditional tests simply is the consequence of low replication (few animals per treatment) that was forced by cost or complexity of experimental technique. A method is given for comparing treatments in a way that permits sensitive tests (via partition of the treatment X period interaction), often when the number of animals per treatment is not more than five or six. Modifications for the procedure are given for the case of heterogeneous variances and covariances. An example from mammary physiology is used to illustrate the procedure and to compare it with standard methods of analysis.
A distribution-free, multivariate discriminating method. Initial experience with the discrimination of patient groups by 2 or more clinical chemical parameters.	We communicate a distribution-free quasi graphic procedure for obtaining a linear discriminating function. The method is based on the following considerations: Suppose a group A is to be separated from a group B using two parameters X and Y. The centre of each group is defined as the median (or mean or mode) of its points. Of all straight lines passing through any point of A and any point of B those are retained which intersect the segment joining the centres of A and B. For each of these the number of wrongly allocated points is calculated (i.e. the points which do not lie on the same side of the straight line as their group centres). In this way one obtains straight lines with maximal separating power (for the two groups given). Finally, each optimal line is rotated in such a way that its defining points are also correctly allocated. If more than two parameters are available a stepwise procedure can be used: the distance from the separating straight line obtained from the first two parameters is introduced as a new parameter, which is then combined with the third parameter to yield a new discriminating function which depends on all three parameters. Iterating this step one can combine any number of parameters. The method was implemented on a personal computer. It was first applied to a textbook model (chances of survival for M. haemolyticus neonatorum estimated by concentrations of haemoglobin and bilirubin in cord blood).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nutrition, metabolism, and hypertension. A comparative survey between dietary variables and blood pressure among three nationalities in China.	The prevalence of hypertension among Kazak, Han, and Uygur nationalities living in Xinjiang Autonomous Region was 15.3%, 4.2%, and 2.1%, respectively; 257 men (92, 92, 83 subjects, respectively), aged 40-59 years were studied. The variables analyzed were serum total cholesterol, total protein, albumin, alpha-GT, triglyceride, plasma fibrinogen, and glucose concentrations; and urinary Na, K, Ca, Mg, urea nitrogen, taurine, sulfate, and NaCNS (an index of smoking), content. The data on nutritional variables indicated that Kazak subjects have a higher intake of sheep meat and milk, add salt to milk and tea, and take little starchy food, fresh fruits, and vegetables, as compared with Han and, especially, Uygur subjects. Statistical analysis showed Na intake (Na/K) exerted a prehypertensive effect; Ca (Ca/Mg) was implicated in blood pressure regulation; an antihyperlipidemic factor may exist in the Kazak diet; animal protein is correlated with elevated blood pressure; alcohol consumption may contribute to hypertension; and a mosaic model of metabolic disturbances, including high blood pressure, high blood sugar, impaired fibrinolytic activity, and hyperlipidemia, appear to exist.
A comparative assessment of home versus hospital comprehensive treatment for advanced cancer patients.	A prospective comparative analysis of home and hospital comprehensive treatment for advanced non-ambulatory cancer patients was conducted. Patients were assigned to hospital (group A) and home (group B) treatment groups based on geographic location. Home treatment was provided by the Don Monti Home Oncology Medical Extension (HOME) program. A multidisciplinary health team, including an oncologist, oncology nurse, social worker, dietitian, and medical technologist, was transported to the home in a medically equipped van. Services included physical examinations, pain control, psychosocial interventions, chemotherapy and blood transfusions, nutrition consultation, and bereavement counseling. One hundred seventy-four patients were treated at home and 44 in the hospital. Pretreatment characteristics were similar for both groups, with the exception that age under 50 years was more frequent in the hospital group, and home patients were more likely to have gastrointestinal (GI) cancer. Medical benefits for home treatment included decreased narcotic analgesic requirements, decreased hospitalization and length of stay, and improved measurements of fat stores for female patients. Improved survival for home patients was related to Karnofsky performance status, since there was no difference in survival for sicker patients with lower performance status whether they received home or hospital treatment. Patient and family acceptance of home treatment was excellent. Comprehensive home treatment provided by a multispecialty oncology team is an effective alternative to hospitalization for terminal cancer patients.
Publication bias: the case for an international registry of clinical trials.	A problem in evaluating different therapies from a review of clinical trials is that the published clinical trial literature may be biased in favor of positive or promising results. In this report, a model is proposed for reviewing clinical trial results which is free from publication bias based on the selection of trials registered in advance in a registry. The value of a registry is illustrated by comparing a review of published clinical trials located by a literature search with a review of registered trials contained in a cancer trials registry. Two therapeutic questions are examined: the survival impact of initial alkylating agent (AA) v combination chemotherapy (CC) in advanced ovarian cancer, and the survival impact of AA/prednisone v CC in multiple myeloma. In advanced ovarian cancer, a pooled analysis of published clinical trials demonstrates a significant survival advantage for combination chemotherapy (median survival ratio of CC to AA, 1.16; P = .02). However, no significant difference in survival is demonstrated based on a pooled analysis of registered trials (median survival ratio, 1.05; P = .25). For multiple myeloma, a pooled analysis of published trials also demonstrates a significant survival advantage for CC (median survival ratio, 1.26; P = 04), especially for poor risk patients (ratio, 1.66; P = .002). A pooled analysis of registered trials also shows a survival benefit for patients receiving combination chemotherapy (all patients, P = .06; poor risk, P = .03), but the estimated magnitude of the benefit is reduced (all patients: ratio, 1.11; poor risk: ratio, 1.22). These examples illustrate an approach to reviewing the clinical trial literature, which is free from publication bias, and demonstrate the value and importance of an international registry of all clinical trials.
Imaging the heart: cardiac scintigraphy and echocardiography in U.S. hospitals (1983).	The rapid growth of cardiac catheterization has raised questions about the availability of less costly, "noninvasive" tests such as cardiac scintigraphy and echocardiography. To assess their availability and rates of use, we surveyed 3,778 non-federal short-term U.S. hospitals in June, 1983. Overall, 2,605 hospitals (69%) offered 201Tl myocardial perfusion scans, 2,580 (68%) 99mTc equilibrium gated blood pool scans, and 2,483 (67%) cardiac shunt scans; 1,679 hospitals (44%) offered M-mode and/or 2-dimensional echocardiography, and 768 (20%) pulsed Doppler echocardiography. Volumes of procedures varied enormously among hospitals capable of performing them. High volumes of both scintigraphy and echocardiography were performed in a small number of hospitals. Larger, voluntary, and teaching hospitals performed higher volumes of both procedures. Despite widespread availability of these "noninvasive" technologies, high volumes of both cardiac scintigraphy and echocardiography procedures are concentrated in a small number of U.S. hospitals.
Statistical analysis of symptoms and signs in pediatric patients with peptic ulcer.	It is not well known which symptoms or signs related to peptic ulcer are crucial for its diagnosis in children. In order to clarify this problem, we evaluated the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictability of 13 ulcer-related symptoms and signs. The data of 160 patients, who were suspected of having peptic ulcer and had undergone endoscopic examinations, were studied. It was significant that five symptoms, i.e., presence of pain in the epigastrium, relationship between the time of pain and that of eating, family history, vomiting, and bleeding, were frequently found in ulcer patients. There was, however, no symptom or sign that predicted by itself precisely the existence of a peptic ulcer. Thus, we computed a discriminant function by combining the data by multivariate analysis. With this score, we could predict the existence of ulcer more precisely. Finally, it was concluded that epigastric pain, food-related pain, vomiting, bleeding, and family history were crucial factors for the diagnosis of peptic ulcer in childhood and that an overall consideration of symptoms and signs was needed for the evaluation of these factors.
Carcinoids: the prognostic effect of primary site histologic type variations.	Carcinoids are histologically classified as insular (A), trabecular (B) glandular (C), undifferentiated (D) or mixed. These have prognostic significance, i.e. Group 1 (most favorable, A + C); 2 (favorable, A, B, A + B); 3 (relatively unfavorable, all non A + C or A + B mixed types); and 4 (unfavorable, C, D). Midgut primaries have a better prognosis than either foregut or hindgut/cloacal primaries. Carcinoids from 114 Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group patients were studied to determine if primary site prognostic differences result from histologic prognostic group occurrence rate differences across primary sites. By primary site the following rates were observed: Foregut: 1 (0%), 2 (79.2%), 3 (12.5%), 4 (8.3%); midgut: 1 (26.7%), 2 (58.7%), 3 (6.6%), 4 (8.0%); hindgut/cloaca: 1 (0%), 2 (42.9%), 3 (42.9%), 4 (14.2%); nongut: 1 (0%), 2 (75.0%), 3 (12.5%), 4 (12.5%), p less than 0.01. The results demonstrate that primary site prognostic differences are highly dependent upon histologic prognostic group occurrence rate variations across primary sites. In addition multivariate analysis of survivorship by both histologic type (p less than 0.05) and primary site (p less than 0.05) demonstrated that each variable has independent prognostic significance.
The effects of cardioplegic potassium concentration and myocardial temperature on electrical activity in the heart during elective cardioplegic arrest.	A major objective of cardioplegic arrest for protection of the heart during cardiac operations is total electromechanical quiescence. Recent studies from our laboratory in which we used multiple bipolar intracardiac and unipolar intramural electrodes have detected the presence of electrical activity in the lower atrial septum, the atrioventricular node-His bundle complex, and in ventricular myocardium during elective cardioplegic arrest that cannot be detected on the limb-lead electrocardiogram. Moreover, this low-amplitude electrical activity is not associated with visible mechanical activity of the heart and occurs at ventricular septal temperatures previously thought to be adequate for myocardial protection. The present study was designed to determine the effect of cardioplegic solution potassium concentration and myocardial temperature on the occurrence and duration of low-amplitude electrical activity during elective cardioplegic arrest. Fifty adult mongrel dogs were subjected to two consecutive 20 minute periods of cardioplegic arrest. The animals were divided into six groups, depending upon the cardioplegic solution potassium concentration they received and on whether or not topical cooling techniques were employed. The probability of occurrence of low-amplitude electrical activity during the arrest interval was significantly decreased by application of topical hypothermic techniques and reinfusion of hyperkalemic, as compared to normokalemic, cardioplegic solution. These effects of hyperkalemic cardioplegic solution and myocardial hypothermia acted synergistically, but independently, to decrease the likelihood of low-amplitude electrical activity occurring during the period of cardioplegic arrest. Nevertheless, low-amplitude electrical activity did occur in all groups after each cardioplegic solution administration and was not detected by routine monitoring techniques. This suggests that low-amplitude electrical activity may represent a fundamental type of metabolic activity that can be recorded from the heart during arrest and may be responsible for the temporary depression in ventricular function that frequently follows a period of elective cardioplegic arrest.
Prosthetic valve endocarditis. Analysis of factors affecting outcome of therapy.	We analyzed the outcome of 116 patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis treated between 1975 and 1983 and used multivariate analysis to identify risk factors for in-hospital mortality and bad outcome during follow-up. Complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis was defined as the presence of a new or changing heart murmur, new or worsening heart failure, new or progressive cardiac conduction abnormalities, or prolonged fever during therapy. Complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis was present in 64% of patients; factors associated with complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis included aortic valve infection (odds ratio 4.3, p = 0.002) and onset of endocarditis within 12 months of the cardiac operation (odds ratio 5.5, p = 0.0001). The in-hospital mortality rate for prosthetic valve endocarditis was 23%; patients with complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis had a higher mortality than patients with uncomplicated infection (odds ratio 6.4, p = 0.0009). Combined medical-surgical therapy was used in 39% of patients; surgical therapy was more common in patients with complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis (odds ratio 16, p less than 0.0001) and in patients infected with coagulase-negative staphylococci (odds ratio 3.9, p = 0.003). Survival after initially successful therapy for prosthetic valve endocarditis was adversely affected by the presence of moderate or severe congestive heart failure at hospital discharge (p = 0.03). Bad outcome during follow-up (death, relapse of prosthetic valve endocarditis, or subsequent cardiac operation related to sequelae of the original infection) was more common in the medical than the medical-surgical therapy group (p = 0.02). The difference in long-term outcome between patients treated initially with medical or with medical-surgical therapy was particularly evident in those with complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis (p = 0.008). The presence of complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis is a central variable in assessing prognosis and planning therapy; the majority of patients with complicated prosthetic valve endocarditis are best treated with medical-surgical therapy. Those who are not treated surgically during their initial hospitalization are at high risk for progressive prosthesis dysfunction and require careful follow-up.
A comparison of the effects of sociodemographic factors and health status on use of outpatient mental health services in HMO and fee-for-service plans.	The authors compared the effects of age, sex, socioeconomic status, and mental and physical health status on the use of outpatient mental health services in one well-established health maintenance organization (HMO) and in fee-for-service plans. In the Seattle site of the Rand Health Insurance Study (HIS), families were randomly assigned to HMO or fee-for-service coverage. Adults incur much greater expense for outpatient mental health services than children in both an HMO and a fee-for-service plan with identical coverage (i.e., free care). However, the difference in use between adults and children is significantly greater for the fee-for-service plan than the HMO (P less than 0.01). Similarly, education has significantly greater effects on use for the fee-for-service than the HMO plan. Increased income has a significant negative effect on use in both the HMO and fee-for-service plans. Mental and physical health status have similar large effects on use in both fee-for-service and HMO plans.
Rapid estimation of hospitalization charges from a brief medical record review. Evaluation of a multivariate prediction model.	In settings where an itemized hospital bill is not generated, estimation of hospitalization charges for research or administrative purposes can be a laborious task. This article examines the extent to which the number of hospital days spent outside an intensive care unit (ICU), number of days in an ICU, number of laboratory tests performed, number of x-rays, and number of surgeries can be used in a multiple regression equation to impute inpatient charges for a sample of 103 hospitalizations at a Veterans Administration hospital. These predictor variables, all of which are readily ascertained in a brief medical record review, accounted for about 97% of the variance in imputed hospital charges. The bootstrap method was applied for validation of the prediction equation. Application of the method described here may be of value to researchers concerned with hospital charge estimation in non-fee-for-service settings.
Physician and hospital factors associated with mortality of surgical patients.	Recent studies have found an inverse relationship between hospital-specific mortality rates for selected conditions and the number of patients hospitalized with these conditions. These studies have not examined whether this inverse relationship is a result primarily of the nature and volume of services provided to patients by individual physicians or whether it reflects special characteristics of high-volume hospitals. This study examines these issues, using data that link characteristics of primary surgeons to the discharge abstract records of patients. The study analyzes variation in hospital mortality associated with: the total volume of specific surgical procedures performed in the hospital, the volume of these procedures performed by the patient's primary surgeon, physician board certification, and other factors including patient severity of illness, patient age, hospital control, teaching status, size, and location. The findings confirm the inverse relationship found in other studies between patient mortality and the total volume of specific surgical procedures performed in the hospital. Physician board certification and hospital's medical school affiliation also are found to be associated with lower patient mortality rates. However, there is no statistical relationship between the volume of services provided by individual surgeons and outcome, suggesting that the volume-outcome relationship reflects hospital rather than physician characteristics.
Effects of vasopressin and desmopressin on memory. A double-blind study in 40 healthy volunteers.	In a study involving 40 healthy student volunteers, 10 subjects were given lysine vasopressin at a dose of 0.4 ml (23 IU) per day in 3 divided doses for 15 days by the nasal route. Ten subjects were given desmopressin at a dose of 0.2 ml (20 micrograms) per day in a single dose for 15 days by the nasal route. Twenty subjects were given placebo by the nasal route. Memory tests were conducted under the same conditions before and after treatment (verbal span, verbal retention, visual retention, visual learning, verbal learning). Only the contents of the tests were varied, so as to avoid familiarity. Statistical analysis did not show any significant change in the scores between the first and the second series of tests, between the two treated groups, or between them studied separately and the control subjects.
State reporting of live births of newborns weighing less than 500 grams: impact on neonatal mortality rates.	The National Center for Health Statistics reports that in 1983 65% of all infant deaths in the United States occurred in the neonatal period. Of these reported neonatal deaths, 17% were of infants weighing less than 500 g at birth. There was, however, variation in state-reported incidence of live births of newborns in this weight cohort (0.2 to 2.2 per 1,000 live births). The states with the lowest neonatal mortality rate have the lowest incidence of birth weights less than 500 g (rho = .77). If it is assumed that mortality for this weight category is nearly 100%, there is marked variation (5% to 32%) in the contribution of this weight cohort to a state's total neonatal mortality rate. Contributing to this variation may be definitions of live birth used by states. The World Health Organization defines a live birth as the product of conception showing signs of life "irrespective of the duration of pregnancy" and this definition is used by 33 states. Only one state (Ohio) includes the gestational criteria of "at least 20 weeks" in its definition of live birth. There is evidence to suggest that definitions are not uniformly used within individual states. For example, in 1983, 20 states did not report any live births with weights less than 500 g among their "other" populations of nonwhite, nonblack residents. Half of these states, however, use the World Health Organization definition of live birth. Despite the exclusionary wording in Ohio's definition of liver birth, 16% of newborns who died in that state had birth weights less than 500 g.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Skull expansion in experimental craniosynostosis.	Bilateral coronal suture immobilization was performed in 9-day-old rabbits to simulate the brachycephaly deformity characteristic of coronal synostosis. Growth abnormalities were documented by serial radiographic cephalometry. A "corrective" linear craniectomy procedure was performed on the rabbits with an immobilized coronal suture at 60 days of age. The degree of amelioration of the induced abnormalities by the surgery in these animals was compared with a similar group of animals that had the same surgery plus supplemental implantation of a spring expansion device at the coronal suture craniectomy site. The mean marker separation at the coronal suture was significantly greater (5.61 mm +/- 0.52 SE versus 2.53 mm +/- 0.38 SE; p less than 0.05) following spring expander implantation than with linear craniectomy alone. Similarly, induced anterior cranial base shortening and distortion of craniofacial cephalometrics were more significantly improved by the additional use of the spring expansion device.
Initial approach of an electroencephalographer to statistics]	About concrete examples set by an electroencephalographist (determination of normal values, comparison of data, realization of trial), different methods of uni- or bi-dimensional statistical analysis using qualitative and quantitative variables were presented and the conditions of the tests applications were emphasized. The authors have insisted especially on the necessity of a precise methodology. It has to be elaborated by the statistician together with the physician before the beginning of any trial: statistics cannot be summarized to a simple formula application at the time of final exploitation of data.
Comparison of titration results of diphtheric antitoxic antibodies obtained by means of Jensen's method and the methods of tissue cultures and haemagglutination.	In 33 human sera the determination of diphtheric antitoxic antibodies was performed in a double blind test using Jensen's method, the method of tissue cultures and the haemagglutination method. In the method of tissue cultures the antibody levels in the sera were determinated in the first and second experiment with the precision of +/- half dilution of the geometrical progression. In Jensen's method, the difference between the first and second measurements slightly exceeded +/- 1 dilution. In the haemagglutination method the error considerably exceeded the binary step dilution. In most cases, the determination fluctuated up to seven times the actual value. Differences among the mean values of examination results obtained by Jensen's method and the method of the tissue cultures are statistically insignificant. The differences between the haemagglutination method and both the other methods are statistically significant.
Principles of controlled trials (author's transl)]	Wrong interpretations of the results of experimental trials on animals and of clinical studies block up scientific progress in medicine and withhold the best possible treatment from the patient. They are caused by concomitant influences independent of or dependent on treatment. Such bias is avoided only by designing "controlled trials". Their definition and principles are discussed here. In clinical drug research these principles can almost always be brought into concordance with the demands of medical ethics.
Experimental design in phase I (AUTHOR'S TRANSL)]	Clinical pharmacology has its domain during phase I. The formalisation of phase I is not very advanced. Sometimes it is argued that the design of experiments during that phase is unnecessary. Just the opposite is true. Trying a new substance for the first time in man poses a special necessity for the design of experiments in a scientific context. Phase I is described in a formal way. The design of experiments with a single subject -- the first one to be exposed to a new substance -- is described. Finally Latin squares are dealt with as a useful tool for phase I.
A follow-up of vasectomy clients in rural Bangladesh.	A one-year follow-up of 585 vasectomy clients sterilized at vasectomy camps in Shibpur and Shalna in rural Bangladesh showed that almost half of the clients were dissatisfied with their vasectomies. The majority of dissatisfied clients stated that their primary reasons for dissatisfaction were: (a) their ability to work had decreased and (b) they had not received all of the incentives they had been promised. However, 58% of the matched nonvasectomized controls also felt that their ability to work had decreased in the last year. Only 2%--7% of the dissatisfied clients cited decreased sexual performance as their primary reason for dissatisfaction. Satisfied vasectomy clients most frequently cited: (a) the permanence of this method of birth control and (b) the incentives they received as their reasons for satisfaction.
Effects of norethandrolone on the transport and peripheral metabolism of thyroxine in patients lacking thyroxine-binding globulin. Observations on the physiological role of thyroxine-binding prealbumin.	Studies of the effect of norethandrolone on the transport and peripheral metabolism of thyroxine were carried out in four patients lacking thyroxine-binding globulin. Before norethandrolone administration, values for serum protein-bound iodine (PBI) were decreased (1.8 +/-0.5 mug/100 ml) and the proportion of free thyroxine increased (0.036 +/-0.008%). As a result, values for the absolute concentration of free thyroxine iodine were at the lower end of the normal range (0.63 +/-0.12 mmug/100 ml). During the control thyroxine-turnover study, the thyroxine distribution space was strikingly increased (18.2 +/-7.9 liters) and the fractional rate of thyroxine turnover moderately increased (17.1 +/-11.3%/day), as compared to the expected mean values for normal subjects. Therefore, calculated values for the daily rate of thyroxine clearance were increased even more, ranging between 255 and 500% of normal values. However, owing to the low PBI in these patients, the daily disposal of thyroxine iodine was similar to that expected in normals on the basis of age and weight. During the administration of norethandrolone, the thyroxine-binding capacity of the thyroxine-binding prealbumin increased strikingly in all patients, values averaging 162% of those found during the control period. This increase was associated with a highly significant increase in PBI (133% of control values) and a small but significant decrease in the proportion of free thyroxine, resulting in no significant change in the absolute concentration of free thyroxine iodine. In all four patients, administration of norethandrolone was associated with a pronounced decrease in the thyroxine distribution space to values which averaged 69% of those found during the control period. Values for the fractional rate of thyroxine turnover increased slightly. As a result, thyroxine-clearance rate decreased in all patients. Owing to the reciprocal changes in clearance rate and PBI, no significant change in total daily thyroxine disposal was observed. The present studies reveal that when the thyroxine-binding prealbumin is increased in patients lacking thyroxine-binding globulin, several indices of peripheral thyroxine transport and metabolism are altered. However, these changes were small, even in the absence of thyroxine-binding globulin. It is suggested, therefore, that the effect of changes in thyroxine-binding prealbumin would be even smaller in individuals in whom thyroxine-binding globulin is present.
Quick counting method for estimating the number of viable microbes on food and food processing equipment.	A rapid method for estimating the extent of microbial contamination on food and on food processing equipment is described. Microbial cells are rinsed from food or swab samples with sterile diluent and concentrated on the surface of membrane filters. The filters are incubated on a suitable bacteriological medium for 4 hr at 30 C, heated at 105 C for 5 min, and stained. The membranes are then dried at 60 C for 15 min, rendered transparent with immersion oil, and examined microscopically. Data obtained by the rapid method were compared with counts of the same samples determined by the standard plate count method. Over 60 comparisons resulted in a correlation coefficient of 0.906. Because the rapid technique can provide reliable microbiological count information in extremely short times, it can be a most useful tool in the routine evaluation of microbial contamination of food processing facilities and for some foods.
Variability in somatosensory cortical neuron discharge: effects on capacity to signal different stimulus conditions using a mean rate code.	1. The present study is based on the demonstration (8, 9) that the relationship between mean interval (MI) and standard deviation (SD) for stimulus-driven activity recorded from SI neurons is well fitted by the linear equation SD = a X MI + b and on the observations that the values of the slope (a) and y intercept (b) parameters of this relationship are independent of stimulus conditions and may vary widely from one neuron to the next (8). 2. A criterion for the discriminability of two different mean firing rates requiring that the mean intervals of their respective interspike interval (ISI) distributions be separated by a fixed interval (expressed in SD units) is developed and, on the basis of this criterion, a graphical display of the capacity of a neuron with a known SD-MI relationship to reflect a change in stimulus conditions with a change in mean firing rate is derived. Using this graphical approach, it is shown that the parameters of the SD-MI relationship for a single neuron determine a range of firing frequencies, within which that neuron exhibits the greatest capacity to signal differences in stimulus conditions using a frequency code. 3. The discrimination criterion is modified to incorporate the changes in the symmetry of the ISI distribution observed to accompany changes in mean firing rate. It is shown that, although the observed symmetry changes do influence the capacity of a cortical neuron to signal a change in stimulus conditions with a change in mean firing rate, they do not alter the range of firing rates (determined by the parameters of the SD-MI relationship) within which the capacity for discrimination is maximal. 4. The maximal number of firing levels that can be distinguished by a somatosensory cortical neuron (using the same discrimination criterion described above) discharging within a specified range of mean frequencies also is demonstrated to depend on the parameters of the linear equation which relates SD to MI. 5. Two approaches based on the t test for differences between two means are developed in an attempt to ascertain the minimum separation of the mean intervals of the ISI distributions necessary for two different mean firing rates to be discriminated with 80% certainty.
Comparison between determination of free thyroxine index and effective thyroxine ratio in human serum.	Four thyroid function indices were determined in the sera of 181 patients: total thyroxine (T-4), the triiodothyronine resin uptake (T-3 B.C.-index), the free thyroxine (T-4) index, and the effective thyroxine ratio (E.T.R.).A statistically significant correlation between the free T-4 index and E.T.R. could be established though this correlation seemed to be worse than could be expected from the literature. Two sets of correlation coefficients were shown: one obtained with the ordinarily used Pearson or product-moment correlation and one with the Spearman rank correlation. Because the assumptions and requirements for the proper use of the product-moment correlation statistics, such as a normal distribution of both variables, are seldom met, expecially not if a selected number of controls and patients is used for the correlation, it is advisable to use some kind of rank correlation statistics instead.The advantages and disadvantages of the E.T.R. and free T-4 index determination are described.
The glycosaminoglycans of normal and arthritic cartilage.	The cartilages from the hip joints of 13 normal and 15 osteoarthritic humans were analyzed for glycosaminoglycan content and distribution. The GAGs were separated by elution with CPC on a short cellulose column by the technique of Svejcar and Robertson after digestion of the tissue with pronase and papain. The eluates were identified by a variety of methods including determination of molar ratios, N-acetyl-hexosamine determinations after hyaluronidase treatment and thin-layer chromatography of unhydrolyzed and hydrolyzed GAGs. From the data obtained, it was demonstrated that cartilage from arthritic patients showed a significant increase in the concentration of chondroitin 4-sulfate and a significant decrease in keratan sulfate, with only slight changes in the total amount of GAG present. Calculations of the molar ratios showed variation in the sulfation with chondroitin 4-sulfate appearing in the "supersulfated" state in the arthritic cartilage. The data lead to speculation regarding the process of osteoarthritis, and it is concluded that the changes seen are more likely to represent an altered pattern of synthesis rather than selective degradation. Since the changes suggest a younger cartilage, a theory is advanced that the chondrocyte responds to the chronic stress of osteoarthritis by modulation to a chondroblastic phase.
Automation of a hemagglutination-inhibition test for parainfluenza 3 antibodies in bovine sera.	An automated hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) test for the "shipping fever" strain (SF-4) of parainfluenza 3 antibody in bovine sera was developed and compared to manual tube and microtiter test procedures. The automated system operating at 60 samples per hr provided the most test results per specified time period, and the manual tube test provided the least. The manual microtiter test and the automated system at 40 samples per hr, falling between the two above procedures, were comparable in the number of sera that could be titrated in 1 day by one technician. There was little difference between automated and manual test reproducibility when measured at the twofold titer one-dilution difference level. However, the automated system titrated a higher number of sera at the same titer on repeat runs than either of the manual test procedures. The automated one-quartile difference reproducibility (each twofold dilution subdivided into 4 units-"quartiles") was equal to the manual test one-dilution difference reproducibility. The standard deviation of the per cent variation from the mean of paired serum titers for 40-sample-per-hr runs ranged from +/-3.49 to +/-5.36%. The manual and automated systems were of comparable sensitivity in their detection of negative sera.
Introduction of a cross-infection rate in children's wards and its application to respiratory virus infections.	Statistical methods are described in detail for the calculating and comparing of cross-infection rates. In addition the use of these rates has been extended to study the influence of age and of different virus types on susceptibility to cross-infection in children's wards.
Adrenergic, coagulation, and fibrinolytic responses to heat.	Two groups of volunteers were exposed to heat in a sauna bath-one group for 10 minutes and the other for 15. There was no change in plasma adrenaline concentration until the subjects emerged from the sauna bath, when there was a slight increase in concentration. Factor VIII and thrombo-elastograph patterns did not change but marked activation of fibrinolysis was stimulated by exposure to heat. These findings support the concept that fibrinolysis is not mediated by direct adrenergic activity.
A study of the dose response of mouse skin to cigarette smoke condensate.	Smoke condensate from two types of cigarette, dissolved in two solvents, has been applied regularly to the backs of mice at each of seven different dose levels. Treatment was continued 3 times weekly for up to 110 weeks, by which time 509 of the 1428 treated mice had developed skin tumours. The dependence of tumour incidence on age was adequately described by the Weibull distribution. The relation - ship between dose of smoke condensate and tumour incidence rate was, however, erratic. It was less regular than the simple relationship which has in previous work been found to obtain when the pure carcinogen benzo(a)pyrene is applied to mouse skin.
Maximum likelihood solutions for the combination of relative potencies.	Two published methods for the maximum likelihood estimation of a common relative potency from a series of parallel-line assays are shown to be equivalent.
Laboratory tests of 5-p-chlorophenyl silatrane as a rodenticide.	The properties of 5-p-chlorophenyl silatrane as a rodenticide against Rattus norvegicus and Mus musculus were investigated in the laboratory. The high oral toxicity of the compound was confirmed. When the compound was given to laboratory rats and mice by stomach tube at lethal dosages, signs of poisoning were observed within a minute. When caged wild rats and mice were given a choice between plain and poisoned baits the optimum rodenticidal concentration in the bait was about 0.5% for both species, producing 50% mortality in wild rats and 95% mortality in wild mice. The results are discussed in relation to safety in use and the probable effectiveness of the compound as a rodenticide in field conditions.
An assessment of the double sucrose-gap voltage clamp technique as applied to frog atrial muscle.	The homogeneity of voltage clamp control in small bundles of frog atrial tissue under double sucrose-gap voltage clamp conditions was assessed by intracellular microelectrode potential measurements from cells in the test node region. The microelectrode potential measurements demonstrated that (1) good voltage control of the impaled cell existed in the absence of the excitatory inward currents (e.g., during small depolarizing clamp pulses of 10-15 mV), (2) voltage control of the impaled cell was lost during either the fast or slow excitatory inward currents, and (3) voltage control of the impaled cell was regained following the inward excitatory currents. Under nonvoltage clamp conditions the transgap recorded action potential had a magnitude and waveform similar to the intracellular microelectrode recorded action potentials from cells in the test node. Transgap impedance measured with a sine-wave voltage of 1,000 Hz was about 63% of that measured either by a sine-wave voltage of 10 Hz or by an action potential method used to determine the longitudinal resistance through the sucrose-gap region. The action potential data in conjunction with the impedance data indicate that the extracellular resistance (R(s)) through the sucrose gap is very large with respect to the longitudinal intracellular resistance (R(i)); the frequency dependence of the transgap impedance suggests that at least part of the intracellular resistance is paralleled by a capacitance. The severe loss of spatial voltage control during the excitatory inward current raises serious doubts concerning the use of the double sucrose-gap technique to voltage clamp frog atrial muscle.
Heat resistance of spores of marine and terrestrial strains of Clostridium botulinum type C.	Resistance to heat of spores of marine and terrestrial strains of Clostridium botulinum type C in 0.067 m phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) was determined. The marine strains were 6812, 6813, 6814, and 6816; the terrestrial strains were 468 and 571. The inoculum level equaled 10(6) spores/tube with 10 replicate tubes for each time-temperature variable. Heating times were run at three or more temperatures to permit survival of some fraction of the inoculum. Survivors were recovered at 85 F (30 C) in beef infusion broth containing 1% glucose, 0.10% l-cysteine hydrochloride, and 0.14% sodium bicarbonate. D values were calculated for each fractional survivor end point after 6 months of incubation. Thermal resistance curves were constructed from the D value data. D(220) (104 C) values for spores of 468 and 571 equaled 0.90 and 0.40 min, respectively. The corresponding values for spores of 6812, 6813, 6814, and 6816 were 0.12, 0.04, 0.02, and 0.08 min. The z values for the thermal resistance curves ranged from 9.0 to 11.5 F (5.0 to 6.2 C).
Inactivation of thirty viruses by gamma radiation.	Decimal reduction values (D value) for 30 viruses were determined. The weighted D values of the viruses suspended in Eagle's minimum essential medium ranged from 0.39 to 0.53 Mrads. It was necessary to increase the radiation dose by a factor of >3 to inactivate virus suspended in Eagle's minimum essential medium as compared to the same virus suspended in distilled water. The destruction rate curves were of a first-order reaction.
Incorporation of radioactive macromolecular precursors into intact cells and osmotically stabilized "protoplasts" of Streptococcus faecalis.	Growing "protoplasts" of Streptococcus faecalis were shown to incorporate newly administered radioactive precursors in the same manner as growing intact streptococci. No observable differences could be found between the size of the leucine precursor pools of the two cultures. The extent of turnover of protein and ribonucleic acid in both "protoplast" and streptococcal cultures appeared to be identical. Finally, the absolute rate of macromolecular biosynthesis was found to be equivalent whether determined on the basis of "new" or "old" label incorporation.
Evidence for a humoral mechanism in volume expansion natriuresis.	The role of a humoral mechanism in the natriuresis induced by volume expansion was evaluated using an isolated dog kidney perfused by a second dog which had been pretreated with desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA). Expansion of the perfusion dog with an equilibrated volume of blood from a reservoir, resulted in an increase in UnaV (sodium excretion) from 153.6+/-27.9 (sem) to 345.5+/-57.8 muEq/min, P<0.001. FEna (fractional sodium excretion) increased from 3.4+/-0.6 to 8.1+/-1.2%, P<0.01. The natriuresis occurred in the face of a significant decrease in Cin, RBF, and renal arterial pressure, and in the absence of any change in plasma protein concentration or packed cell volume. In a control group of experiments, sodium excretion did not change when the perfusion dog was not volume expanded, although Cin (inulin clearance) and RBF (renal blood flow) decreased to the same degree as in the expanded group. These data support the conclusion that volume expansion of the perfusion dog either stimulated the release of a natriuretic factor or suppressed the release of an antinatriuretic factor which was manifested by an increase in sodium excretion in the isolated kidney.
Cardiac activity preparatory to overt and covert behavior.	The heart rates of 17 women subjects were recorded as they prepared to make both overt (key press) and covert (silently thinking the word "stop") responses. A very reliable preparatory cardiac response was obtained regardless of whether the overt or covert response mode was employed. The temporal development of this cardiac response faithfully reflected the speed with which the subjects were asked to respond, suggesting that in the covert condition heart rate could be used to detect the time at which a mental event was being generated.
A one-week introductory course in clinical biochemistry and research based on renal function testing in man.	A one-week introductory course in clinical biochemical and research techniques was devised to provide a brief but concentrated experience for interested persons. Urinary creatinine concentrations were measured to demonstrate acceptable degrees of precision of a method (co-efficients of variation, 0.5-2.4%), and to give confidence by favourable comparison with routine laboratory results (day 2, mean 0.95 vs 0.94 mg/ml). Subjects then submitted themselves to one-day renal function testing, and subsequently measured their own urinary acid-base parameters by autotitrimetry and glomerular filtration rates by spectrophotometry. The values obtained for the latter fell within the normal range (85-124% of normal, corrected for age and surface area). Finally, statistical methods and a small desk-top computer were employed to compute linear regression equations, correlation coefficients, and t tests from the week's data. The course contained a number of features which stimulated learning, including active participation by the learner, and the use of meaningful materials to induce both desire for success and tolerance of mistakes.
Criteria for measuring the efficacy of trachoma vaccines in baboons.	Trachoma vaccines are usually assayed by testing their ability to protect monkeys or baboons against subsequent challenge of the conjunctiva with a pathogenic strain of trachoma/inclusion conjunctivitis (TRIC) agent. In such experiments the course of infection in vaccinated baboons was compared in terms of arbitrary scores assigned to a range of clinical signs, and of counts of TRIC inclusions in conjunctival scrapings. Analysis of many such scores indicated that after a large challenge dose of strain MRC-4s, the scores for signs of inflammation reached their maximum earlier than the follicle score; the inflammation score was closely related to the number of inclusions, whereas the follicle score was not. With this system, the optimum periods for eliciting differences between vaccinated and control measures varied according to the sign used; it was later for follicles than for inflammation or inclusions. For assessing the influence of vaccination, the mean of the inflammation scores read weekly for the first 3 weeks after challenge and the mean inclusion score over the same period were equally satisfactory, and either was rather better than the mean of three follicle scores taken over the period 3-6 weeks.For assessing the influence of vaccines or therapeutic agents on experimental trachoma it is important to determine which signs discriminate best between treated and control animals, and the optimum times for measuring them.
Treatment failure in filariasis mass treatment programmes.	The data from the first 3 years of the Samoan pilot filariasis control programme were reanalysed using incidence instead of prevalence statistics. With these statistics, failures of diethylcarbamazine treatment can be roughly divided into three groups: primary treatment failures, manifested by persistent microfilaraemia; secondary treatment failures, manifested by microfilaraemia recurring within the prepatent period after apparently successful treatment; and new infections. When cases of persistent and recurrent microfilaraemia are excluded by appropriate statistical manipulations, the incidence of new infections is seen to be many times higher in persons who originally showed microfilaraemia. This suggests that susceptibility or exposure, or both, are not homogeneously distributed in the population, and indicates that proposed mathematical models of filarial epidemiology must be further refined. It also indicates that filariasis control programmes should devote more attention to studies and control methods aimed at this high-risk subgroup of the population.
An analysis of the demographic, educational, and employment characteristics of participants in the continuing education program of the Medical Library Association, Denver, Colorado, June 1968.	A survey was performed to elicit details about attendees of the continuing education program given in Denver at the 1968 MLA Annual Meeting. Factors considered included sex, age, geographic distribution, professional mobility, educational background, current jobs, and interest in further continuing education.
Interval histograms of period of the electroencephalogram and the reaction time in twins.	Measures of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, and kurtosis of interval histograms of half wavelengths in the electroencephalogram (EEF) and performance on an auditory reaction time (RT) task were compared in seven pairs of male monozygotic twins aged 101-134 months and seven pairs of unrelated boys matched to the twins for age. Interval histograms were formed from measurements of 780 half waves taken from EEGs recorded from the left parietal-occipital derivation while subjects performed the RT task. Except in the case of the dispersion of the EEG distributions,the F ratios of within-pair variance in unrelated pairs to within-pair variance in twins were all statistically significant  at  the 0.05 level of confidence. Statistically significant intraclass correlations of means, medians, and modes of the histograms were found in the group of monozygotic twins but not in the sample of unrelated subjects. Intraclass correlations for dispersion, skewness, and kurtosis of the histograms and for RT were not significantly different from zero in either the twins or unrelated subjects. EEG findings suggested that the basic frequency of the brain's rhythmic electrical activity may be genetically determined; RT findings were inconclusive.
Effectiveness of the legal neoplasm prevention program in a cytological laboratory]	The test results of preventive gynecological examinations as assessed by a medium-sized cytological laboratory over a 5-year-period are reported. It is differentiated between the results found at first screening and at re-screening. Of the 34,121 women screened for the first time. 0.32% suffered from invasive cervical carcinoma or carcinoma of the corpus uteri and 0.41% from carcinoma in situ, whereas only 0.031% of the 192,089 re-screened women had invasive carcinoma and only 0.064% had carcinoma in situ. Thus the incidence of positive cases was 10 times higher with first check-ups as compared to annual follow-up screening. A retrospective inquiry with the participating physicians revealed among 116,020 cases 177 additional carcinomas ( = 0.15%), i.e. 122 breast cancers, 28 carcinomas of rectum or colon (5 primarily discovered by Haemoccult test) and 27 tumors of the skin, kidney or ovary. These results suggest the effectivity and neccessity of the Cancer Early Detection Program.
Maternal and environmental factors affecting twin births in Canadian cities.	Details of 4972 pairs of twins born to mothers resident in 14 large Canadian cities in the years 1952, 1957, 1962, and 1967 were compared to those of a random sample of 4969 single births. Both dizygotic and monozygotic twinning rates, derived by Weinberg's formula, showed increases with both maternal age and with the number of previous livebirths. Dizygotic twinning rates also showed a seasonal variation with an October maximum. Twinning rates were lower in Oriental women, but did not vary between other ethnic groups, or by city of residence, legitimacy, paternal age or maternal history of stillbirths.
Bone-marrow eosinophilia in the mouse. I. Eosinophil leukocyte levels in untreated mice.	The number of eosinophil leukocytes in the bone marrow of untreated mice (Cpb:SE) has been shown to vary widely. A systematic investigation of this variability is reported here. The study was done a) within a group of mice, b) within groups of mice at roughly 3-month intervals, and c) within a group over a time course. The following are the most important results of this study: 1. Analysis of variance of eosinophils/1000 cells in 165 mice over a 35-day period showed that the results were consistent with the assumption that there are no changes during this interval (P is less than 0.05). 2. The number of eosinophils/1000 cells found in the various groups are not directly comparable; the mean number for the four groups investigated at intervals of about 3 months differed by a factor of up to 3. 3. On the basis of the variability found, the number of eosinophils/1000 cells in the bone marrow of a given untreated mouse in a group to be investigated cannot be reliably predicted. At a 99 per cent confidence level, the value would lie between 5 and 139.
Determination of enzyme kinetic parameters and differentiation between various mechanisms by means of a non-linear least squares method]	The effect produced by an inhibitor on an enzyme is characterized by the underlying mechanism and the molar inhibition coefficients Ki and Ki', respectively. The commonly used graphical estimation methods according to Lineweaver-Burk, Dixon and Cornish-Bowden do not always yield a differentiation between various possible mechanisms. According to our experience, a non-linear least-squares procedure allows a unique identification of the mechanism even in cases that are not at all, or not uniquely, solvable by graphical methods. The major advantages of this procedures and the used FORTRAN program are: 1. Fitting of the model equation itself-and not of a reciprocal conditional form-simultaneously to all measurements; 2. confidence limits for the parameter estimates; 3. residual plots to judge the goodness of fit; 4. parallel calculations and comparison of various mechanisms using the same set of data; 5. addition of further mechanisms as FORTRAN-subroutines.
A method for describing monotonic dose-effect curves and areas in yes/no reactions (author's transl)]	A method combining a polynomial statistical model and multiple probit regression, is useful in describing nonmonotonic dose-effects in yes/no-reaction variables. An example shows the application of this method to the combination of two substances. The effects can be described with a minimum of polynomial coefficients. The application of a simple X2-test allows to test for additivity of substance effects by testing whether interaction coefficients improve the fit of the model significantly or not.
Drug use among college students--an interim report.	A survey was conducted at Agra (India) to study the extent and pattern of the non-medical use of dependence producing drugs among the post-graduate students of the local colleges and a number of medical students of other colleges of the state of Uttar Pradesh who were posted for training at the Mental Hospital. The study was confined to the academic year 1975-76 and covered 1,200 students. The present interim report is based on a sample of 564 students covered during 1975 (1st stage). The data on the total sample of 1200 (2nd and the final stage) are still being analysed. The results reveal that 73.88 per cent male, and 25.96 per cent female students had a drug experience at some time or another. Drug use was highest (80.66 per cent) among male medical students. The substances commonly used by males were: alcohol, barbiturates, Mandrax (methaqualone diphenhydramine hydrochloride). Vesparax (hydroxyzine hydrochloride), Equanil (meprobamate). Librium (chlordiazeproxide), pain killers (minor analgesics such as aspirin, and cannabis (bhang, ganja, and charas). The female students mainly used Equanil and pain killers. Among the 23 reasons offered for the use of drugs, the majority of students (50-59 per cent) stated that their main reason for drug use was "to relieve tension and facilitate relaxation". The next motivating factor for indulgence was "for the sake of fun" (30-39 per cent). The student drug users reported a number of effects produced by various substances. The most commonly mentioned effects were: excessive sleepiness, sluggishness, giddiness, inability to concentrate on studies, poor physical co-ordination. They expressed their opinion on various aspects of the drug use problem and favoured stringent measures to curb it.
Confidence in results of beta-blocker postinfarction trials.	Seventeen published trials of beta-blockers in myocardial infarction were scrutinised for the 95% confidence limits for the reported treatment effects. All the trials were prospective, randomised, and (except when treatment was given intravenously) placebo controlled. For analysis of pooled results the trials were divided arbitrarily according to whether treatment had been given "early" or "late" after the onset of pain. All trials were consistent with a treatment effect of just over 20%, but benefit was more apparent in trials using late intervention with beta-blockers. The pooled results of trials using early intervention showed a positive effect of 8%, whereas those using late intervention showed a 26% reduction in mortality and confidence limits of 17-35%. The results confirm that late intervention with beta-blockers after myocardial infarction reduces mortality but show that the effect of early intervention remains to be determined.
Operational models of pharmacological agonism.	The traditional receptor-stimulus model of agonism began with a description of drug action based on the law of mass action and has developed by a series of modifications, each accounting for new experimental evidence. By contrast, in this paper an approach to modelling agonism is taken that begins with the observation that experimental agonist-concentration effect, E/[A], curves are commonly hyperbolic and develops using the deduction that the relation between occupancy and effect must be hyperbolic if the law of mass action applies at the agonist-receptor level. The result is a general model that explicitly describes agonism by three parameters: an agonist-receptor dissociation constant, KA; the total receptor concentration, [R0]; and a parameter, KE, defining the transduction of agonist-receptor complex, AR, into pharmacological effect. The ratio, [R0]/KE, described here as the 'transducer ratio', tau, is a logical definition for the efficacy of an agonist in a system. The model may be extended to account for non-hyperbolic E/[A] curves with no loss of meaning. Analysis shows that an explicit formulation of the traditional receptor-stimulus model is one particular form of the general model but that it is not the simplest. An alternative model is proposed, representing the cognitive and transducer functions of a receptor, that describes agonist action with one fewer parameter than the traditional model. In addition, this model provides a chemical definition of intrinsic efficacy making this parameter experimentally accessible in principle. The alternative models are compared and contrasted with regard to their practical and conceptual utilities in experimental pharmacology.
A statistical method of component identification of average evoked potentials.	The polarity histogram was described for a method of statistically identifying AEP components. The technique is less sensitive to artifacts and is inexpensive.
The evaluation of serial measurements of the NK cell activity in man.	Studies on the NK cell activity require extensive controls because it is known that a series of variables can influence both the quality of effector cells and of target cells. This known variation of the susceptibility to lysis in one target cell line or even in sublines requires "standards", if separately performed experiments should be compared. In some laboratories, the experiments have been controlled for the variation of the target cell's susceptibility to lysis; others control for the differences of NK cell activities among subjects or for the variation of the NK cell activity in individuals from day to day. Each of these methods concentrates the main point of control to a particular variable. To demonstrate the power of several variables in relation to an induced and expected variation of the NK cell activity, we describe in this paper the results of a factorial analysis of variance testing PB-MNC from healthy donors against two target cells. The in vitro treatment of PB-MNC by IFN was chosen as induced variation of NK cell activity. As variables of the system, we defined subjects, days, target cells, and the effect of IFN. It is shown that the induced variable (IFN-treatment) counts for the most powerful variance component (32% of the total variance). Other large variance components are the differences of NK cell activities among subjects (20%), the day to day variation of the subjects' NK cell activities (13%), and the day to day variation of the susceptibility of target cells to lysis (13%). Since it is almost impossible to control for all variables in an experiment, some variables have to be selected which should be controlled for. The quantification of the variables, which is possible by a factorial analysis of variance, is useful for that purpose. This method of data analysis allows to estimate further the relevance of a particular expected effect if several variables, as in NK cell tests, influence the result of the experiment.
The use of multivariate discriminant analysis in the antenatal detection of fetal neural tube defects.	Early second trimester amniotic fluid is classified by stepwise discriminant analysis involving the computer program BMDP77, based upon biochemical analyses for alpha-fetoprotein and eight other easily assayed variables. The outcome of about 800 pregnancies has been predicted on this basis, over 80 of which were associated with fetal neural tube defects. Classification is shown to be more reliable than using alpha-fetoprotein and gestational age alone. Although in practice this approach has now been superceded by the introduction of the analysis of acetylcholine-esterase isoenzyme activity in amniotic fluid, the results demonstrate a successful application of discriminant analysis to medical diagnosis.
Detecting infection-related changes in peripheral blood smears with image analysis techniques.	High-resolution image analysis has the potential to flag subtle changes in white blood cell morphology that may indicate the presence of certain diseases. A study was made of the feasibility of identifying patients with hematologic bacterial infections (sepsis) using measurements on Wright-Giemsa-stained peripheral blood smears. Neutrophils and lymphocytes from a group of patients with sepsis and from a control group were digitized, and parameters quantifying geometry, color, texture and shape were extracted. While color parameters differed the most between the infected and control samples, substantial differences in geometric, texture and shape parameters also were observed. Analysis of the data showed that individual neutrophils and lymphocytes from patients with sepsis were distinguishable from those of the control group with better than 84% accuracy. When average parameters were calculated from all cells of one type for each specimen, 100% accurate classification was obtained. These studies demonstrate that the image-analysis techniques used are sensitive enough to detect disease-related changes in cell morphology that are generally too subtle for reliable detection by the human eye. Future experiments will determine the specificity of this test for bacterial infections and will explore the possibility of using image analysis techniques on peripheral blood to detect and monitor a wide variety of diseases.
Electrocardiographic measures of left ventricular hypertrophy in children across the distribution of blood pressure: the Muscatine study.	We sought to test the effectiveness of the ECG as a measure of increased left ventricular wall mass in children with high blood pressure. One hundred eighty-one children, ages 9-18 years, were selected from the lowest, middle and highest quintile of systolic blood pressure from the Muscatine Study, based upon two biennial school screenings. After correction for age, sex, height, weight and skinfold thickness, children with the highest blood pressure had increased echocardiographic left ventricular wall mass (p less than 0.02). Voltage measurements of maximum R and S waves in the standard and precordial leads were measured by computer. We correlated blood pressure and echocardiographic measurements of the interventricular septum, left ventricular posterior wall and left ventricular wall mass to electrocardiographic combinations used to predict left ventricular hypertrophy in both children and adults. The electrocardiographic correlations ranged from -0.01 to + 0.17. Poor correlations were found between electrocardiographic measures and blood pressure, left ventricular wall thickness or left ventricular wall mass. Skinfold thickness and weight had negative correlations, suggesting a damping effect upon measured voltage. We conclude that the echocardiogram is a more sensitive measurement of increased left ventricular mass than the ECG in children with elevated blood pressure.
Cefoperazone disk diffusion susceptibility test: confirmation of the tentative interpretive criteria, Pseudomonas aeruginosa cross-resistance, and determination of quality control performance limits.	Cefoperazone disk diffusion test and minimum inhibitory concentration comparison studies were performed on 421 recent bacterial isolates, using 30- and 75-micrograms commercially prepared disks. Acceptable correlation coefficients (-0.82 to -0.86) and very major (false-susceptible) interpretive error rates (less than 1%) were obtained with both disk concentrations. The interpretive criteria for both disks were identical. Using the preferred 75-micrograms disk, the Thornsberry et al. criteria (J. Clin. Microbiol. 15:769-776, 1982) of greater than or equal to 18 mm = susceptible (less than or equal to 32 micrograms/ml) and less than or equal to 14 mm = resistant (greater than 64 micrograms/ml) resulted in only 5.5% of strains having indeterminate-range zone diameters; the 30-micrograms disk had 6.9% of strains with indeterminate zone diameters. The 75-micrograms disk, excluding the testing of enterococci, minimized the very major and other interpretive errors to less than 5%. Larger zone diameters will contribute few technical problems with either disk concentration. Data from 1,320 zone diameters submitted for each quality control strain indicated no significant (P greater than 0.05) difference between disks made by the three major manufacturers, and consistent results were obtained within each laboratory with numerous lots of Mueller-Hinton agar (except for one manufacturer). Individual daily test and accuracy quality control ranges were calculated from clinical investigator laboratory data at 16 hospitals based on mean zone sizes and from an additional 8 laboratories with both mean and median calculations. The quality control data were nearly identical, and ranges calculated by the two methods were very similar. Susceptibility tests of Pseudomonas aeruginosa indicate that the cefoperazone disk or minimum inhibitory concentration test would accurately predict P. aeruginosa susceptibility test results for other pseudomonas-active cephalosporins (cefsulodin and ceftazidime), thus producing no very major interpretive errors.
Direct enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for quantification of poliomyelitis virus D-antigen.	The proposed micro-ELISA assay by means of the double antibody method involves three steps: adsorption of type specific antiserum on micro-wells; simultaneous incubation of antigen and Horse Radish Peroxydase (HRPO) conjugated antiserum; substrate incubation followed by photometric measurement of absorbance at 403 nm. Preliminary results seem generally in good agreement with those obtained by other tests such as gel diffusion and indirect ELISA.
A micromethod for the quantitation of cellular proteins in Percoll with the Coomassie brilliant blue dye-binding assay.	A simple procedure for the determination of cellular proteins in Percoll-containing samples is described. Percoll precipitated when particulate proteins were solubilized by dilution of the samples in a NaOH-Triton X-100 mixture. After centrifugation at high speed (12,000g), the supernatant was assayed for proteins with the Coomassie brilliant blue dye-binding assay. With an automatic spectrophotometer, 50-microliter aliquots gave a linear response between 0 and 3 micrograms of bovine serum albumin. After a fivefold dilution in the alkali-detergent mixture, proteins in samples containing up to at least 60% Percoll can be accurately quantitated on a standard curve prepared in the absence of Percoll. Because the sensitivity of the assay was better than 100 ng, the procedure outlined in this paper can also be used as a general protein micromethod.
Accurate molecular weight determinations of deoxyribonucleic acid restriction fragments on agarose gels.	The electrophoresis of various DNA restriction fragments ranging in size from 47 to 6000 base pairs has been examined as a function of agarose concentration, electric field strength, and time of electrophoresis. A typical sigmoidal curve was obtained when the logarithm of the molecular weight was plotted as a function of mobility. The logarithms of the mobilities of all fragments were a linear function of gel concentration, if the mobilities of fragments greater than or equal to 1000 base pairs were first extrapolated to zero electric field strength. The slopes of the lines, called the retardation coefficients, were found to be linearly proportional to the effective hydrodynamic surface areas of the fragments, as predicted by the Ogston theory of pore size distribution. The logarithm of the mobility of native DNA fragments was inversely proportional to Mr0.8 over the entire molecular weight range, if the mobilities of fragments larger than 1000 base pairs were first extrapolated to zero electric field strength. The logarithm of the mobility of denatured, single-stranded DNA molecules was inversely proportional to the square root of molecular weight. The agreement of these results with the Ogston theory argues against a reptation mechanism for the movement of DNA molecules less than or equal to 6000 base pairs through agarose gels.
Anomalous electrophoresis of deoxyribonucleic acid restriction fragments on polyacrylamide gels.	A detailed study has been made of the polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of DNA restriction fragments obtained from two plasmids, pBR322 and p82-6B. Variables studied were molecular weight, gel concentration, temperature, and electric field strength. The retardation coefficients of the larger fragments (greater than 800 base pairs) were independent of molecular weight. The retardation coefficients of the smallest fragments (less than or equal to 300 base pairs) were proportional to Mr1/3, and therefore to the mean geometric radii of the fragments. The logarithm of the relative mobility of all fragments was also proportional to Mr1/3. The anomalous migration of certain fragments on polyacrylamide gels was found to be "transportable" into fragments generated by different restriction enzymes. Anomalous migration was enhanced at lower temperatures and disappeared upon increasing the temperature. A fragment which migrated anomalously slowly migrated even more anomalously when dimerized; dimerizing a normally migrating fragment resulted in the normal migration of the dimerized fragment. Anomalously migrating fragments were found to be localized in distinct regions of the pBR322 circle.
Serologic diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. A double-blind study of four EB virus antibodies with evaluation by sequential discrimination.	It is generally known that a close relationship exists between Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Recently, patients with early lesions of NPC have been detected in the general population by use of serologic mass survey. Using the double-blind method, we have studied the diagnostic value of the four EBV antibody titers, VCA-IgA, VCA-IgG, EA-IgA and EA-IgG, in four groups of subjects, each consisting of 50 persons: patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC group), patients with cancers other than NPC in the head and neck regions (HNC group), patients with cancers outside of head and neck regions (OC group) and normal individuals (NS group). The results of these four antibodies were evaluated both singularly and together by multivariate sequential discrimination. Taking 1:10 as the criterion of being positive, in the NPC group, the positive rate of VCA-IgA is 88%, the VCA-IgG rate is 100%, the EA-IgA rate is 48% and the EA-IgG rate is 74%. In the non-NPC group, the positive rates of VCA-IgA are as high as 86%-92%, but those of the other antibodies are as low as 0-42%. The positive rates and the geometric mean titers of these four antibodies were all elevated as compared with those in the three non-NPC groups. These differences are statistically significant. VCA-IgG is unimportant in the diagnosis of NPC because of its low specificity. By treating the antibody titers of VCA-IgA, VCA-IgG, EA-IgA and EA-IgG with sequential discrimination, the correlation rate between the serology and pathology of NPC is 88% and the false positive rate is 7.3%.
Detection of diabetes in obese patients. Systematic study of induced hyperglycemia with assays of blood insulin, glycosylated hemoglobin A1c and cutaneous biopsy in 46 patients]	Glycoregulation and insulin secretion abnormalities and micro-angiopathy were systematically investigated in 46 patients (6 men and 40 women; mean age 34.8) seeking medical attention for obesity. In all patients, a three-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) with 50 g glucose, with concomitant plasma insulin determinations, Hb A1c assay and skin biopsy (SB) at the medial aspect of the arm (optic microscopy study, PAS stain) were performed. We obtained 46 Hb A1c assays, 45 OGTT, 43 insulin determinations and 42 SB. In 40 patients, all four studies were available. We consider as abnormal blood glucose greater than 7.8 mmol at 120 mn with intermediate measurement greater than 10.1, insulin greater than 64 mcU with a maximum delayed after the 60th mn, Hb A1c greater than 6.3% and SB score greater than 10 (evaluating basement membrane thickness, endothelium swelling, aspect of pericytes, perivascular infiltration and percentage of capillaries involved). We observed 6 abnormal OGTT, 12 dysinsulinisms (DI), 5 Hb A1c greater than 6.3% and 17 SB greater than or equal to 10 with typical diabetic microangiopathy. Out of 40 fully investigated patients, 14 were normal for all criteria, 12 had only one abnormality (12 SB, 5 DI, 1 OGTT), 6 had 2 abnormalities (2 SB + DI, OGTT + DI, SB + OGTT, SB + Hb A1c, DI + Hb A1c) and 2 had 3 abnormalities (SB + DI + Hb A1c, OGTT + DI + Hb A1c).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Strabismus and amblyopia. Value of their early detection]	The authors emphasize the importance of the relations between strabismus and amblyopia. Strabismus is often the symptom which leads to the discovery of amblyopia. Amblyopia may cause strabismus, as in organic amblyopias induced by congenital lesions of the retina or visual pathways, and visual deprivation amblyopias due to corneal opacities and/or congenital cataracts. Unilateral clouding of normally transparent media (cornea, lens, vitreum) prevents normal stimulation of the retina which is necessary to the development of binocular vision. Anisometropic amblyopias also belong to this category. More often, amblyopia is the consequence of strabismus: it is then termed "functional strabismic amblyopia". Loss of the parallelism of the two visual axes disrupts the functional balance between the images received from the two eyes. The two images are different; one is suppressed. This suppression may eventually lead to amblyopia. Amblyopia was discovered in 593 of 1 757 studied cases of strabismus. Amblyopia was the cause of strabismus in 87 patients and was functional in the remaining 506. Among these latter, visual acuity was inferior or equal to 1/10 in 241 cases and between 2/10 and 7/10 in 265. 147 children in the first group and 136 in the second could be treated. Among these patients, who were treated before the age of seven, complete recovery was obtained in approximately 1/2 of cases and improvement in more than 1/4 of first group patients and 1/3 of second group patients. Results were all the better that treatment was initiated earlier and that patients were younger.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of abortion on subsequent pregnancies.	The loss of a very precious pregnancy in abortion could affect both the health of the patient and the outcome of her subsequent pregnancies. In a study of the outcome of the pregnancies that immediately follow an abortion, it was found that among women who had D&C to induce abortions in their previous pregnancies a higher incidence of abortion was found, and that these may be due to possible damage to the cervix, resulting from forcible dilatation of the cervix during the operation. It was also found, however, that a higher percentage of those who had abortions after 16 weeks in the previous pregnancies had premature deliveries in the current pregnancies. It was suggested that this may be attributable to cervical incompetence, although congenital or functional defects of the cervix may be contributory.
Statistical procedures in clinical pharmacology: decision-theorectic foundations.	The function of statistical analysis is to reach optimal decisions in situations of principal uncertainty. The foundations of statistical procedures are experiments X, whose distributions PX are characterised by random samples. Within given classes of distributions (distribution hypothesis) mathematical statistics make optimal procedures available, which allow conclusions on the real properties of PX. The use of optimal procedures minimises the risk of incorrect decisions made on the basis of random samples (principle of greatest chance). Statistics, however, refrain from any statement on the quality of the decision to which a procedure in a certain situation leads. Against a decision-theoretic background of statistical decisions the growing complexity of clinical-pharmacological test models leads to the necessity of using descriptive-statistical methods on an even larger scale. The aim should be to reduce the number of individual parameters to a few important factors, so that the relation between the number of trial subjects on the one hand and the number of parameters on the other remains valid for meaningful statistical statements.
The study of depressive disorders using the PSE-ID-CATEGO system.	The PSE-CATEGO-ID system and its approach to the sub-classification of depression is described. The principle of sub-classification partly corresponds to the empirical relationships between symptoms on affective disorder. Comparison of CATEGO and DSM III demonstrates that major differences of classification can arise because of differences of the classificatory algorithm even though similar lists of symptoms are used. Empirical studies of the PSE-CATEGORO-ID system are described and their importance in providing evidence for a rational choice between classificatory system is emphasised.
Influence of tumor estrogen and progesterone receptor levels on the response to tamoxifen and chemotherapy in primary breast cancer.	In 1977 the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project initiated a prospectively randomized clinical trial for women with primary operable breast cancer and positive axillary nodes. In this study 1891 patients were randomized to receive L-phenylalanine mustard and 5-fluorouracil (PF) either with or without tamoxifen (T). In this interim report findings are presented concerning disease-free survival (DFS) and survival as related to age and to estrogen receptor (ER) and/or progesterone receptor (PR) content of the tumor. The median follow-up time is 3 yr. Patients 50 yr of age or older with either 1-3 or more than 3 positive axillary nodes had a markedly longer disease-free survival on PFT than did those receiving PF adjuvant therapy (p less than 0.001). The effectiveness of PFT was related to the levels of tumor receptors. Patients 50 yr old or more with both tumor ER and PR levels of 10 fmole or more ("high") displayed the greatest benefit in disease-free survival from PFT (p = 0.004). Analyses by age indicated that it is more appropriate to divide patients of 50 yr or older into two age groups, 50-59 and 60-70 yr old. In the former the survival results were poorer on PFT when tumor PR was low, whereas, regardless of receptor levels, those 60-70 yr old experienced an advantage on PFT. In women under 50 yr of age, there was no difference in disease-free survival (p = 0.64), but survival results favored the PF over the PFT treated (p = 0.06). Patients under 50 yr with tumor ER and PR levels under 10 fmole ("low") had a poorer survival when given PFT (p = 0.003). Those whose tumors demonstrated a high ER and a low PR also had a shorter survival on PFT (p = 0.01). The observation of no benefit in younger patients when both receptor levels were high, but a benefit in older patients with receptor-poor tumors, indicates that, at least according to the conditions of this study, the difference between the two age groups cannot be explained by the association of age with receptor content. Multivariate analyses considered the effects of the number of positive nodes, age, ER, and PR. They support the conclusion that, while nodes and ER exert strong prognostic influences in both PF- and PFT-treated patients, the PR content of tumors is a stronger predictor of the effectiveness of PFT therapy than is ER content.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Analysing antibody response based on data obtained from serial dilution methods.	We identify several problem areas in statistical analyses of data obtained from serial dilution methods in serology. We provide the mathematical backgrounds of the key elements involved in this field of study and discuss the statistical considerations. The problem areas include the use of the geometric mean as an expression of the average of a set of observations, the use of fold increase to measure antibody response, and the statistical analysis of the change in antibody response with respect to other variables, such as age and pre-titer levels.
Recent methods for assessing effectiveness of antihypertensive agents.	Clinically relevant graphic approaches to the assessment of patients' blood pressure responses to antihypertensive agents are reviewed and extended to include both statistical components and the effects of treatment-related patient discontinuations. Regression line fits of change in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) versus baseline diastolic blood pressure (BDBP) are used for multicenter comparisons of placebo, guanabenz, methyldopa, clonidine, propranolol, hydrochlorothiazide, and the combination of guanabenz plus hydrochlorothiazide. Orientations of the fitted lines can be contrasted to certain "ideal" response profiles and are particularly useful for comparative purposes. An additional graphic approach was developed to show overall "therapeutic" response rate categories, two of which account for patients discontinuing treatment because of nonresponse or adverse effects. This approach assesses antihypertensive effectiveness, "adjusted" for the effects of treatment-related patient withdrawal, thus addressing criticisms often raised in the evaluation of such agents. Although these methods are generally useful for comparing agents used in chronic disease therapy, further work is needed to extend these procedures to incorporate safety assessments and overall benefit-risk considerations in the selection of treatment modalities.
The Burt controversy: a comparison of Burt's data on IQ with data from other studies.	A recent controversy has given reason to examine the place of Burt's data among other behavioral genetic data on IQ. Although Burt's kinship correlations are higher than the average of other studies, his results are generally consistent with other data.
Pre-cancers and liability to other diseases.	Data of 10,556 case-control pairs from the Oxford Survey of Childhood Cancers and related sources have shown that when cancers originate in the reticuloendothelial system (RES neoplasms) they are liable to cause loss of immunological competence before they are clinically recognizable. Since these early effects may have lethal consequences, the true prevalence of RES neoplasms is difficult to identify, especially in infection-sensitive age groups and populations with high death rates from infection. An inevitable consequence of a nuclear holocaust is a high infection death rate. Therefore, a population of A-bomb survivors is a totally unsuitable one for studying the precise nature of the association between ionizing radiation and human cancers.
The metacarpal index in Jamaican children and adults.	The metacarpal index was measured in radiographs of the hands of 615 male and 667 female Jamaicans aged over two years. The index increased with age from two years to adulthood, and was greater in females than in males, and greater in the left hand than the right hand. Means and standard deviations of the index for the left hand are presented as standards. An index of 9.6 for males and 10.1 for females over the age of 13 years is suggested as the upper limit of normal (three standard deviations above the mean). These standards are higher than those previously reported, and are probably applicable to other black populations outside Jamaica.
A free-running endogenous rhythm of the resting heart rate in man.	A sine-wave oscillating rhythm of the heart rate is reported in 24 out of 31 resting healthy subjects. Identification of these free-running cycles was by spectral analysis of minute-by-minute recordings of electrocardiograms, and in a few cases by inspection of cardiotachometer records. The periodicity of this rhythm was circa 10 min and was intermediate in frequency between the rapid fluctuations with frequencies of 15, 30, and 60 s and those of a frequency recurrent every 90 min already described in the literature. Our cycles were independent of age and sex.
The GC content of a group of H2S- enterobacterial related to the genus Citrobacter]	The deoxyribonculeic acid (DNA) of 106 strains of Enterobacteria was analysed for the guanine + cytosine (GC) content. These strains, whose origin and principal characters are described in the text, belong to the genera Citrobacter (C. freundii H2S-) and Levinea (L. malonatica and L. amalonatica). Four other groups or classes named C.D.E. and F. could not be classified on the base of the usual phenotypic criteria. DNA from the strains of Levinea has a GC% of 50.3 to 53.3, while DNA from the strains of C. freundii H2S- has a GC% of 48.6 to 51.7. The representative values from the new classes are C, 50.9%; D, 54%; E, 52.7%; F, 49.5%. For the latter a genomic heterogeneity was shown, expressing itself as two subpopulations whose average GC% are 51.7 and 48.6 respectively. Statistical analysis of the averages give a significant individuality to these new classes.
Characteristics of statistical parameters used to interpret least-squares results.	This paper discusses properties of several statistical parameters that are useful in judging the quality of least-squares fits of experimental data and in interpreting least-squares results. The presentation includes simplified equations that emphasize similarities and dissimilarities among the standard error of estimate, the standard deviations of slopes and intercepts, the correlation coefficient, and the degree of correlation between the least-squares slope and intercept. The equations are used to illustrate dependencies of these parameters upon experimentally controlled variables such as the number of data points and the range and average value of the independent variable. Results are interpreted in terms of which parameters are most useful for different kinds of applications. The paper also includes a discussion of joint confidence intervals that should be used when slopes and intercepts are highly correlated and presents equations that can be used to judge the degree of correlation between these coefficients and to compute the elliptical joint confidence intervals. The parabolic confidence intervals for calibration cures are also discussed briefly.
Use of patient data in the control of urea, creatinine and electrolyte estimations.	Analysis of urea, creatinine and electrolyte results from patients in two distric general hospitals is considered as a means of comparing and evaluating laboratory performance in these tests. The raw patient data, consisting of partially overlapping normal and abnormal subpopulations, is analysed by a procedure for resolving overlapping Gaussian distributions. This method permits determination of reference values from hospital populations and in a modified form can also be used to provide a regular indication of the precision of the biochemical estimations. The information derived from such a mathematical treatment of patient results is compared to that obtained from participation in a national quality control scheme.
Contribution of the biceps brachii and pronator teres muscles to the efforts of pronation or supination. I. Statistical work (author's transl)]	The electrical activity of the biceps brachii and pronator teres muscles is studied through the prono-supination of the forearm in some isometrical conditions (static work) with different loads and joint positions. If the pronator teres is always being active in pronation, this activity is a function of the load and of the wrist and elbow positions. The same phenomena can be observed for the biceps brachii but when in supination. From the curvilinear relationships between the integrated electrical activity and the load--observed on both muscles--some torque-angle relationships can be established for the biceps brachii which show that a bifunctional muscle seems to be characterized by a very and unique force-length relationship.
Contribution of the biceps brachii and pronator teres muscles to the efforts of pronation or supination. II. dynamic work (author's transl)]	The electrical activity of the biceps brachii and pronator teres muscles is studied through the prono-supination of the forearm in some anisometrical conditions (dynamic work) when the inertia of the mobile system and the elbow position are being varied. The subjects are required to perform pronation, supination and flexion movements, either isolated or combined. From the findings obtained when the integrated electrical activity (Q) is related to the mechanical work (W), one can conclude that a. the Q-W linear relationship seems to characterize the chief function of a muscle, b. the slope of the Q-W relationship depends on the elbow position, c. the pronator muscles do not inhibit in a selective manner the biceps supinating function. So a bifunctional muscle seems to act as a whole.
Use of overlapping normal distributions in genetic counselling.	If a numerical variable can be assumed to be normally, but differently, distributed in each of two or more populations, then for an 'unknown' individual whose numerical value is known the relative probability of his belonging to each of the populations can be simply calculated. We briefly review the method and its application in genetic counselling.
Analysis of factors related to length of stay in the hospital in a hepato-gastroenterology unit]	Because hospital length of stay is the most important determinant of cost of hospitalization, this study was performed to analyse factors contributing to hospital length of stay in an hepato-gastroenterology unit. Prospectively collected computerized files of the first 750 patients admitted in 1982 were analyzed according to primary diagnosis, age and sex. Ten primary diagnosis categories were established. By multivariate analysis, alcoholic liver disease and the non-digestive diseases correlated best with the hospital length of stay. Variables most predictive of an hospital length of stay greater than 14 days were diagnosis of alcoholic liver disease, patient age and diagnosis of non-alcoholic cirrhosis. Analyses of this kind are essential in making policy decisions regarding hospital cost reduction.
Histopathology of endomyocardial biopsies from patients with idiopathic cardiomyopathy; quantitative evaluation based on multivariate statistical analysis.	In order to evaluate the histological changes in endomyocardial biopsies from 121 patients with idiopathic cardiomyopathy, quantitation of histological findings was performed and analysed by univariate and multivariate statistical analysis. Several findings, i.e. (1) disarray of myofibers, (2) hypertrophy of myofibers, (3) scarcity of myofibrils, (4) nuclear changes, (5) vacuolization, (6) proliferation of collagen fibers, (7) endocardial thickening, (8) interstitial edema, (9) cell infiltration, (10) fatty infiltration and (11) basophile degeneration, were graded in five degrees (- to 4+) or two degrees (- or +) depending upon the severity and the extent of each finding. The univariate analysis of the graded histological findings revealed no remarkable difference between the biopsies from HCM and CCM pts, except for nuclear changes, which appeared to be more prevalent in CCM (p less than 0.05). In the categorical principal component analysis of the first six histological findings listed above, three principal components could be extracted. The first principal component was characterized by all six histological findings, the second by vacuolization and proliferation of collagen fibers, and the third by hypertrophy of myofibers. The mean values of the first principal scores indicated that, in either LVB or RVB histological changes were more severe in CCM than in HCM, and in fatal cases than in survivors. The second principal scores indicated that fatal cases had more collagenosis but less severe vacuolization than survivors. The histological findings in RVB appeared to be significantly correlated (r = 0.41, p less than 0.05) with those in LVB obtained from the same heart, but some differences were noted, myofiber hypertrophy and vacuolization being more prominent in LVB than in RVB.
Statistical effects of varying blood life span from 14 to 28 days.	Human blood can be stored in the liquid state for only 21 days. Although the 21-day limit appears to have been somewhat arbitrarily set, there is general agreement that quality of blood, especially the red blood cells' oxygen carrying ability and viability declines with age. Lengthening the shelf life could help in reducing outdating and shortages. Shortening the shelf life, on the other hand, would make it even more difficult to supply blood needs. This paper studies the effect of varying the blood's life span from 14 to 28 days using a simulation model and collections and utilization data from an actual blood region.
Discrimination between schizophrenic and control subjects by means of plasma dehydroepiandrosterone measurements.	In this study we were able to distinguish 10 schizophrenic subjects from 10 control subjects with 100% accuracy by measuring plasma dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) diurnal rhythms and analyzing the data using a linear function equation. Discrimination with this high level of accuracy is in contrast to most studies of altered biological functioning in schizophrenia which have yielded inconsistent results. These findings are regarded as preliminary; further study is necessary to elicit any consistent DHEA disturbance in schizophrenics and to discover the significance for the pathophysiology of the illness. Measurements of plasma cortisol, aldosterone, DHEA-SO4, and testosterone did not provide such a basis for discrimination.
Assessment of cardiac performance with quantitative radionuclide angiocardiography: right ventricular ejection fraction with reference to findings in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	A reproducible noninvasive technique for measuring righ ventricular ejection fraction was developed using first pass quantitative radionuclide angiocardiography. Studies were obtained in the anterior position with a computerized multicrystal scintillation camera with high count rate capabilities. Right ventricular ejection fraction was calculated on a beat to beat basis from the high frequency components of the background-corrected right ventricular time-activity curve. In 50 normal adults, right ventricular ejection fraction averaged 55 percent (range of 45 to 65 percent). This radionuclide measure of right ventricular function was reproducible, with minimal inter- and intraobserver variability, and was sensitive to changes in inotropic state induced with isoproterenol. In 36 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, right ventricular ejection fraction ranged from 19 to 71 percent. All 10 patients with corpulmonale, as well as 9 additional patients, had an abnormal right ventricular ejection fraction. Arterial oxygen tension and forced expiratory volume were depressed significantly more in patients with abnormal right ventricular ejection fraction than in subjects with normal right ventricular function. There was no relation between abnormalities in right and left ventricular ejection fraction.
Clinical estimation of liver span in infants and children.	The liver span in 350 infants and children was determined by percussion of the upper and lower borders in the midclavicular line. Mean liver span was found to be related to age curvilinearly and ranged from a minimum of 1.9 cm at 1 week of age to a maximum of 7.7 cm in males and 6.3 cm in females at 20 years of age. In children with normal growth patterns, age and sex were found to be the major factors influencing liver size. Though height and weight also correlated with liver span, these variables did not add substantially to the correlation using age and sex alone. The presence of minor systemic illnesses, eg, otitis and gastroenteritis, did not affect liver span. The expected normal values for liver span at different ages for male and female children have been established and provide the basis for comparison during routine physical examination.
Cardiac function at rest and during exercise in normals and in patients with coronary heart disease: evaluation by radionuclide angiocardiography.	This study demonstrates that radionuclide angiocardiography provides a simple and noninvasive approach for evaluation of myocardial function. Previous work concerning myocardial performance has been generally conducted with the patient in the supine position. Radionuclide angiocardiograms were performed in the present study at rest and during exercise in 30 normal subjects and in 30 patients with ischemic coronary artery disease. There were 30 normal controls (Group I), ten with single coronary artery disease (Group II), and 20 patients with multiple vessel coronary disease (Group III). All subjects were studied in the erect posture on a bicycle ergometer. In the normal controls, the mean heart rate doubled and the cardiac output tripled during exercise. Intensive training can lead to extraordinary levels of cardiac performance as shown in a world-class athlete who during peak exercise attained a heart rate of 210, an ejection fraction of 97%, and a cardiac output of 56 litres per minute. In the patients with coronary artery disease, both groups, were able to increase cardiac output to approximately twice the resting value. The magnitude of increase in blood pressure during exercise was not significantly different in the three groups. However, definite changes were present in the end-diastolic volume at rest was 116 and rose to 128 ml in Group I, 93 rising to 132 ml in Group II, and 138 increasing to 216 ml in Group III. The stroke volume increased comparably in all three groups, but the ejection fraction from rest to exercise showed a marked contrast in the controls compared to those with multivessel coronary disease. The ejection fraction rose in Group I from 66 to 80% during exercise, while in Group II it fell from 69 to 67%, and in Group III from 60 to 46%. These findings indicate that patients with ischemic myocardial disease respond to the stress of exercise by cardiac dilatation to maintain of increase stroke volume at increased heart rates. Moreover, the magnitude of this response appears to be greatest in patients with left main coronary artery stenosis. This approach for evaluating myocardial function during exercise provides useful data of importance in selecting medical versus surgical management of patients with ischemic coronary artery disease.
Tumor membrane lymphocyte stimulation assay in patients with renal cell carcinoma.	Peripheral blood lymphocytes from 15 patients with hypernephroma were stimulated with partially purified tumor plasma membranes to incorporate [3H]thymidine. Kidney tumor and normal kidney membranes were adjusted to antigenic equivalence as determined by their ability to inhibit in the HLA 51Cr microcytotoxicity assay. Membranes from control "normal" kidney adjacent to the tumor stimulated less than did the tumor. Six of eight patients responded to autologous tumor (p less than 0.05). One patient responded to allogeneic tumor of the same histological type. The importance of statistical analyses of tumor membrane lymphocyte stimulation data is discussed in relation to the assay system. Sequential studies suggest that this assay may be useful as a guideline for the monitoring of current therapeutic regimens and future immunotherapy. The results of this assay are discussed in relation to other in vitro tumor lymphocyte stimulation assays. The limitations of this assay appear to be two: (a) it can be used only in large tumor systems where there is adequate tissue for analysis and controls; (b) it may detect nontumorous antigens or nonspecific stimulators in allogeneic studies. Further studies are needed to correlate the blastogenic response with the patient's prognosis.
Components of skin impedance level.	Eighty students were trained on a maze-like ballboard over a series of 24 trials, while the skin impedance level was recorded from the palmar and dorsal sides of their fingers. A principal component analysis of the cross-products for the palmar and dorsal data treated separately resulted in two components for the palmar data (55% and 25% of variance) and one component for the dorsal data (80% of variance) and thus supported Edelberg's findings.
Measurement of the evoked cardiac response: the problem of prestimulus variability.	This paper discusses the problem of prestimulus variability in cardiac activity and its implications for the measurement of evoked cardiac responses (ECRs). Two methods which have been proposed to reduce error arising from respiratory sinus arrhythmis (SA) were reviewed critically. The first approach attempts to control only for the error associated with the sampling of the prestimulus level. This is considered inappropriate since it does not take into account the continuation of SA into the poststimulus period. The second approach reviewed was time series analysis which provides an elegant statistical solution of the problem. Unfortunately, the application of time series analysis has not yet been evaluated for adult cardiac data. A third approach which utilizes an adjustment for SA by employing the actual prestimulus values of an SA cycle was proposed. The application of this technique in the case of a pseudostimulus demonstrated that correction for SA results in significantly smaller 'responses' with less variance than does a conventional procedure which does not take prestimulus variability into account.
Effects of radiation type and dose and the role of glucocorticoids, gonadectomy, and thyroidectomy in mammary tumor induction in mammotropin-secreting pituitary tumor-grafted rats.	Three experiments on the induction of mammary neoplasms by total-body 11- to 100-rad neutron or 50- to 500-rad gamma-radiation of female Fischer or W/Fu rats are reported. Grafts of mammotropin-secreting pituitary tumor were used to elevate mammotropic hormone levels. The results (a) confirm and extend previous reports that neutrons are more efficient in carcinoma induction than are gamma-rays (the neutron relative biological effectiveness for first carcinomas was 3.68) and (b) demonstrate that the potentiation of carcinoma induction by adrenalectomy is reversed by glucocorticoid replacement. Statistical analysis of the data by procedures that take into account time at risk as well as tumor frequency indicates that multiple mammary tumors do not occur independently (i.e., a first mammary neoplasm significantly increases the probability of development of another neoplasm). The statistical procedure used in this analysis is presented.
Discriminant analysis in the differential diagnosis of hypercalcaemia.	Linear discriminant analysis, a multivariate statistical procedure, applied to serum calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase, bicarbonate, chloride, creatinine and tubular reabsorption of phosphate, proved to be effective in distinguishing patients with Primary Hyperparathyroidism from other hypercalcaemic patients in eithy-four retrospective cases. The application of the model to thirty-four prospective cases enabled us to separate correctly, hyperparathyroid patients from non-parathyroid hypercalcaemic patients.
Twin deliveries (author's transl)]	The statistics on twin deliveries for Bavaria from 1920-1925 were compared to those for 1972-1976. The number of twin deliveries showed a reduction from 15 per thousand in 1920-1925 to 9 per thousand in 1972-1976. The largest number of twin mothers were young primigravidas or older multi-gravidas. The percentage of twins of the same sex increased by 4.7% for boys and 5.7% for girls. The percentage of twin deliveries of different sex decreased by about 7%. Of all twin deliveries in Bavaria from 1920-1976 66% were of the same sex and 34% had different sex.
Break points in human chromosomes.	Break points of structural rearrangements of human chromosomes can be identified by banding techniques. The present study attempts to analyze the randomness and the distribution of the reported spontaneous break points in the human genome. Reports of break points in structural rearrangements of human chromosomes from the published sources up to October 1976 were analyzed. Based on the assumption that each unit length of band has an equal chance of being broken, chi2 tests show that positions of breakage are highly non-random; that is, breaks are more frequent in the negative band areas and in the centromeric and terminal regions. In double-break rearrangements the same band types tend to rejoin. The distribution of breaks is not proportional to the chromosome length. The longer chromosomes (i.e., 1--12, X) have a lower number of breaks per unit length, while the shorter chromosomes (i.e., 13--22, Y) have a greater number of breaks per unit length with the exception of chromosomes 4, 9, 10, 16, 17, 19, 20 and X. Out of the whole genome, chromosomes 9, 13, 18, 21, 22 and Y have the most breaks per unit length and chromosomes 16, 6, 2, 3 and 19 have the fewest. 18p11, 21q22 and Yp11 are the three bands with most frequent breaks. There are 53 bands where no breaks have been reported.
Effects of dark rearing on dendritic spines in layer IV of the mouse visual cortex. A quantitative electron microscopical study.	The effect of visual deprivation on dendritic spines in the visual cortex layer IV of 19 days old mice was studied with the electron microscopy. From the serial ultrathin sections of the selected dendrites bearing spines the author has calculated the volume and surface area of dendritic spines, and also the surface area of their synaptic zones. Employing statistical methods he has demonstrated that visual deprivation produced a retarded development of some dendritic spines in dark reared mice. The fact that the smallest dendritic spines cannot be seen with the light microscope while the number of such small spines is larger in the dark reared mice can well explain the apparent reduction in the number of dendritic spines in deprived animals studied in Golgi impregnated material.
A multi-echelon menu item forecasting system for hospitals.	A multi-echelon system was designed to generate statistical forecasts of menu-item demand in hospitals from one- through twenty-eight-day intervals prior to patient meal service. The three interdependent echelons were: (1) Forecasting patient census, (2) estimating diet category census, and (3) calculating menu-item demand. Eighteen weeks of supper data were utilized to analyze diet category distribution patterns and menu-item preferences, to test forecasting models, and to evaluate the performance of the forecasting system. A cost function was used to evaluate the efficiency of the mathematical forecasting system and manual technique over a nine-week period. The cost of menu-item forecast errors resulting from the use of adaptive exponential smoothing and Box-Jenkins formulations was approximately 40 per cent less than costs associated with the manual system.
Discriminant analysis and structure-activity relationships. 1. Naphthoquinones.	Discriminant analysis has been used to study the data for naphthoquinones as antitumor agents in three different animal tumor systems. In each case the most significant variables for classifying the compounds into two groups according to their antitumor activities were determined by a stepwise procedure. The usefulness of discriminant analysis in the design of drugs is discussed.
The distribution of consumption model of prevention of alcohol problems. A critical assessment.	The conceptual framework and empirical basis of the distribution model are examined, and it is concluded that a more satisfactory model is required.
The single distribution theory of alcohol consumption. A rejoinder to the critique of Parker and Harman.	It is concluded that the central element of the theory, that the mean and rate of heavy consumption are closely related, is irrefutable, and recommendations for a prevention program are outlined.
Comparison of alcoholism prevalence rates obtained by survey and indirect estimators.	Prevalence rates obtained by the Ledermann consumption model and the Jellinek estimation formula are similar to the rate of "heavy--escape drinking" obtained by a suvey using a quantity--frequency index and questions about "escape drinking".
Factors affecting survival following radical mastectomy.	Data on 17 potentially useful factors from 152 women undergoing radical mastectomy for operable breast cancer were analyzed in order to determine the effect of each on survival and their relative importance. Only four, clinical stage, clinical and pathological lymph node involvement, and appearance of recurrence and metastases, proved to be of significant prognostic value. Axillary nodal involvement was the main single determinant of survival. Multiple regression analysis, based on factor analysis of the original input variables, was able to account for 34% of the variance in survival and is thus of only very limited use as a predictive instrument in the clinical management of prospective patients.
When to discharge a patient after myocardial infarct]	The evidence suggest that its possible on the fourth day after myocardial infarction to identify a group of patients with near-zero mortality during the next 14 days. These patients can leave hospital on the fifth day if adequate home care is available. Since 66 of our series of 255 patients belonged to this fortunate group, a notable cost reduction was achieved.
Variability of a dental morphological trait.	A study of morphologic variability was made for maxillary incisor lingual fossa depth. The problem of variability is discussed, and new methods for the statistical treatment of variability are presented. Possibly, the best procedure to express biologic variability is to present SDs, CVs, Xs, ranges, RCs, and the logarithmic graphic method of the relationship between CV and X. No sex differences in variability could be demonstrated. Maxillary centrals and laterals in the Eskimo were found to have relatively equal variability. This is seen in connection with the great functional demand on Eskimo incisors, giving less reduction of the laterals, a possible simultaneous commencement of calcification for I1sup and I2sup, and possible genetic drift. Comparison of variability for six populations shows no racial differences in variability. Variability is not found to increase with inbreeding. Population comparisons do not confirm little reduction in the Eskimo to be associated with high variability. Genetic drift might be the explanation of the homogeneity of maxillary incisor lingual fossa depth in East Greenland Eskimos.
Psychiatric impairment, physical health and work values among unemployed and apprenticed young men.	A cross-sectional study was carried out to compare psychiatric impairment in young unemployed men and apprentices from Sydney's western suburbs. The unemployed men were found to have a psychiatric case rate (as defined by the GHQ) of 48% as against a rate of 28% for the apprentices. Comparisons of the unemployed men and apprentices on other measures indicated that they did not differ in physical health nor in the value they attached to work. The unemployed, however, were older on average, less well educated and had experienced a poorer quality of parental upbringing than the apprentices. A log-linear analysis revealed that the adverse effects of unemployment on mental health were not attributable to poor quality of upbringing.
Inferential statistical methods for strengthening the interpretation of laboratory test results.	Laboratory test results for the diagnosis of psychiatric illness usually are reported descriptively despite the ready availability of appropriate inferential statistics. A test's sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic confidence are conditional probabilities. Confidence intervals may be calculated for these probabilities in any given study. Statistical tests for comparing the results of several studies use techniques for planned and posterior comparisons applied to contingency tables. These established statistical methods aid in the interpretation of laboratory test findings.
Predictability of the progression of chronic renal failure.	The progression of chronic renal failure has been claimed to be predictable by means of mathematical models. The present study assesses, in 110 adult patients, the prediction error caused by the application of these models. The study shows that the prediction error has a wide range, which indicates that these models should be used with caution for prediction purposes in individual patients. Improvements of the models are proposed, and a new approach is demonstrated.
Evaluating pedigree data. II. Identifying the cause of error in families with inconsistencies.	Pedigree data can be evaluated, and subsequently corrected, by analysis of the distribution of genetic markers, taking account of the possibility of mistyping . Using a model of pedigree error developed previously, we obtained the maximum likelihood estimates of error parameters in pedigree data from Tokelau. Posterior probabilities for the possible true relationships in each family are conditional on the putative relationships and the marker data are calculated using the parameter estimates. These probabilities are used as a basis for discriminating between pedigree error and genetic marker errors in families where inconsistencies have been observed. When applied to the Tokelau data and compared with the results of retyping inconsistent families, these statistical procedures are able to discriminate between pedigree and marker error, with approximately 90% accuracy, for families with two or more offspring. The large proportion of inconsistencies inferred to be due to marker error (61%) indicates the importance of discriminating between error sources when judging the reliability of putative relationship data. Application of our model of pedigree error has proved to be an efficient way of determining and subsequently correcting sources of error in extensive pedigree data collected in large surveys.
Random currents through nerve membranes. I. Uniform poisson or white noise current in one-dimensional cables.	The linear cable equation with uniform Poisson or white noise input current is employed as a model for the voltage across the membrane of a one-dimensional nerve cylinder, which may sometimes represent the dendritic tree of a nerve cell. From the Green's function representation of the solutions, the mean, variance and covariance of the voltage are found. At large times, the voltage becomes asymptotically wide-sense stationary and we find the spectral density functions for various cable lengths and boundary conditions. For large frequencies the voltage exhibits "1/f3/2 noise". Using the Fourier series representation of the voltage we study the moments of the firing times for the diffusion model with numerical techniques, employing a simplified threshold criterion. We also simulate the solution of the stochastic cable equation by two different methods in order to estimate the moments and density of the firing time.
The errors of thymidine labelling in breast cancer.	The site to site error and reproducibility of counting error have been assessed in the routine thymidine labelling of breast cancer. Despite modifications of technique designed to minimize these errors both were found to be inaccurate to within 0.5 labelling index %. Since the majority of tumours had labelling indices below 2% this measurement is not a critical determinant of tumour behaviour.
Statistical methods of detection of a periodic phenomenon in a short series. Example of application: a density series of nematode eggs - II.	Using the example of the statistical treatment of a series of density of nematode eggs, we give here a survey of the main methods of detection of a periodic phenomenon in a short series. The purpose of these methods, which may be ranked into 3 groups: smoothing methods, regression methods, autocorrelations, is to study non random characteristics of the process. We detected in this series and estimated a rhythm of period 12 h. We concluded that the regression methods are the most resourceful for detecting a deterministic periodic phenomenon but that it is useful to confirm the results using the other methods.
A graphical analysis of the interrelationships among waterborne asbestos, digestive system cancer and population density.	Five statistical procedures were used to partial the correlation between waterborne asbestos and digestive site cancer for the putative effects of population density. These include: analysis based on a data subset with roughly homogeneous population density; standard residual analysis (partial correlation); conditional probability integral transformation; analysis based upon ranked data, and use of logarithmic transformation. Nonparametric regression graphical techniques are applied to examine the nature or shape of the asbestos-cancer dose-response curve. Evidence is presented that suggests that there is considerable difference between analyses involving nonhigh-density tracts and non-San Francisco tracts. Evidence is also presented that the modal-type nonparametric regression curve forks or bifurcates when adjustment is made for population density.
A genetic analysis of the mandible and maxilla in the rat.	A quantitative genetic analysis of eight osteometric traits from the oral region together with femur length in the rat are described. The relevant questions being examined are (1) the heritability of each trait; (2) the relative contribution of genetic, maternal environmental, and residual environmental effects to the correlation between the oral traits, and (3) genetic and nongenetic components of the correlation between the oral traits and overall body size. Some quantitative genetic aspects of covarying traits is briefly reviewed with special emphasis on allometric variation. Phenotypic regression coefficients from log-transformed data (= allometry coefficients) of oral traits onto femur length are partitioned into components due to genetic, maternal environmental, residual environmental, and total environmental causes. All phenotypic regression coefficients and all but one based on an environmentally determined covariance component are significantly different from zero, suggesting a substantial body size effect in the oral region resulting from nonheritable causes. However, three genetic coefficients from regressions of oral traits to femur length are not different from zero, indicating a genetic correlation with body size in five traits but not in three others. A principal components analysis was carried out on the phenotypic, genetic, and environmental correlations of the eight oral traits to provide a multivariate depiction of the components of covariation in the maxilla and mandible of the rat. General multivariate effects due to body size together with group or special effects are demonstrated for each component of morphogenesis.
Scattering kinetics in a complex tryptophan hydroxylase preparation from rat brainstem raphe nuclei: statistical evidence that the lithium-induced sigmoid velocity function reflects two states of available catalytic potential.	Multiple measures on statistical patterns from a kinetic scattering paradigm for the activities of rat brainstem medial and dorsal raphé nuclear tryptophan hydroxylase preparations are consistent with the previous hypothesis (J. Neural Transmission 45: 1-15, 1979) that the lithium ion induces a state of kinetic bistability in the system. In this context, the lithium-induced sigmoid tetrahydrobiopterin-reaction velocity function is interpreted as a jump between two stable states of differing catalytic potential with a less kinetically accessible domain between them. These dynamics are qualitatively portrayed in three dimensions by Thom's classical cusp catastrophe.
Method of controlling the diagnostic capabilities of roentgen equipment]	Some experimental results of applying statistical methods to detect details of internal structures examined at roentgenograms are presented. The method is most useful to control commercially available instruments during adjustments and clinical use as well as to evaluate operator's proficiency.
Relation between the HLA system and the development of asbestosis fibrosis in a group of workers exposed to asbestos]	The various studies which have dealt up to the present with a possible relationship between asbestosis and HLA groups have led to differing conclusions. The present study evaluated this relationship by comparison of 57 workers with asbestosis confirmed radiologically (minimum S1 type opacities) and functionally (VC and/or DuaCO less than 88%) with 58 controls from the same population. In a second phase, statistical analysis involved the combination of these cases with those reported in the literature, estimating the mean relative risk and, for each gene, the heterogeneity of the results thus collected. No relation was found between class I (A and B) HLA antigens and asbestosis. The authors suggest extension of this study to class II (DR) and III (components of complement) antigens and to seek possible links between combinations of antigens and the development of asbestosis.
Hearing deterioration in shipyard workers. Serial audiometry over a four-year period.	The hearing thresholds of a total of 58 workers aged 20 to 65 years were measured annually over a period of 4 years using Békésy sweep-frequency audiometry. Using these data, accurate values of the yearly rate of change of hearing threshold level were calculated. The rate of change of hearing threshold level due to presbyacusis was obtained from several data sets, and the rate of change of hearing threshold level due to noise was calculated. When the average hearing threshold level over the frequency range 2-8 kHz was considered, it was found to be possible to establish a significant rate of threshold shift caused by exposure to noise for yearly changes as small as approximately 2 dB. In the cases investigated about 30% of the ears showed a significant deterioration in hearing ability due to noise. When comparing the permanent threshold shift caused by noise in groups of younger and older workers, it was found that the younger workers exhibited less threshold shift than expected, whereas the older workers showed a greater threshold shift than expected.
Iron-storage deficiency and iron supplementation in pregnancy.	Haematological parameters were determined in 146 pregnant patients seen before 20 weeks' gestation. Eighteen per cent had both reduced serum ferritin and raised serum transferrin values without significant anaemia, suggesting covert iron-storage deficiency. One group then received 120 mg elemental iron daily and the other no iron supplementation. Repeat haematological assessment 20 weeks later indicated that in 48% of patients a significant decrease in haemoglobin concentration occurred if no iron was given. Supplementary iron prevented this decrease from occurring in patients with iron stores, but was insufficient to restore depleted stores or to prevent depletion of iron stores in 34% of patients with adequate stores. It is suggested that patients with depleted iron stores require therapeutic doses of iron, whereas those with adequate stores require little or no iron supplementation.
An anthropometric survey of the nutritional status of black preschool children in the Dias Divisional Council area, May 1981.	The nutritional status of 1468 Black preschool children in a rural Eastern Cape area was assessed anthropometrically in order to provide the Department of Health and Welfare with a critical evaluation of the effectiveness of its subsidized skimmed milk powder scheme for local authorities in combating kwashiorkor, to indicate factors which influence nutritional levels, and perhaps to provide a sound theoretical and empirical foundation for future health strategies. Weight and height for age (using the norms of the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS], weight for height, and triceps and subscapular skinfold thickness were used as criteria for assessing nutritional status. Stated age and certified age groups were assessed separately. Depending upon the sex and stated/certified age, the percentages of children falling under the third percentile ranged from 11,1% to 37,0% for NCHS norms and from 10,9% to 15,7% for skinfold thicknesses. Together with an urban assessment undertaken in December 1982 the survey may indicate where local problems will occur.
Interaction of dietary zinc, genetic strain, and acetazolamide in teratogenesis in mice.	The effect of dietary zinc and genetic strain on acetazolamide-induced malformations was assessed. CBA (sensitive) and SWV (resistant) mice were fed purified diets containing five different levels of zinc throughout gestation and were given acetazolamide orally for a limited period during organogenesis. Controls received either no treatment or the drug vehicle. Litters were assessed for resorptions and malformations at term. The significance for influencing litter outcome was tested for the three main treatments: strain, dietary zinc level, and acetazolamide dose, plus their interactions. The magnitude of the litter response was strongly influenced by strain. The incidence of forelimb ectrodactyly, a characteristic malformation caused by acetazolamide, was much greater in CBA than in SWV fetuses. SWV fetuses had no ectrodactyly when dams were fed at least 9 micrograms/g zinc, but 5-8% showed ectrodactyly when dams received a zinc-deficient (0.4 or 4.5 micrograms/g) diet. The incidence of ectrodactyly in the CBA strain decreased as dietary zinc increased, but was still present when dams were fed a high (1,000 micrograms/g) zinc diet. The incidence of resorptions and total abnormal sites from litters of dams receiving acetazolamide decreased as dietary zinc increased, with the magnitude of the response being influenced by the strain. A significant (dietary zinc X acetazolamide) and (strain X acetazolamide) interaction was found for the ectrodactyly response. The results demonstrate the importance of considering interactions among genetic strain, diet, and drugs, as well as single factors as determinants of fetal risk.
Early morphological abnormalities in splotch mouse embryos and predisposition to gene- and retinoic acid-induced neural tube defects.	Genetic and environmental factors contribute to an individual's neural tube defect liability. In the mouse, the gene mutation Splotch (Sp) causes a pigmentation defect in heterozygotes while homozygotes have spina bifida +/- exencephaly. Splotch homozygotes, heterozygotes, and wild-type embryos were examined for somite number, anterior neuropore closure, and posterior neuropore length. The aim was to distinguish potentially affected homozygotes early in pathogenesis and find a morphological basis for increased teratogen susceptibility in heterozygotes. Posterior neuropore closure as well as anterior neuropore closure was significantly delayed in potentially affected Sp as compared to wild-type litter embryos exceeding the incidence found in day-10-diagnosed homozygotes. Part of this excess was attributed to a transient delay in heterozygotes which in turn might predispose to retinoic acid-induced neural tube defects. This idea was supported by an outcross of Sp heterozygote males by inbred SWV females and wild-type males by SWV where a significant increase in retinoic acid-induced neural tube defects was found in Sp carrier litters.
A new, non-invasive study method for the determination of left-ventricular function in patients with coronary disease]	With the new development of the Nuclear Stethoscope-a microprocessor based cardiac scintillation probe-it is possible to determine the contractile parameters and the diastolic filling measurement of the left ventricle, after the application of Technetium 99m. Due to the high sensitivity and specificity a functional diagnosis of the left ventricle is possible to approximately 90%. The report describes our first attempts to determine the ejection fraction (EF) at rest and during exercise in 24 patients with diagnosed coronary heart disease. Of the 24 patients, 18 (75%) were already found to have abnormal, in that they did not have the expected increase in the EF. The comparison of the results from the non-invasive probe with those of the coronary angiographic findings demonstrate a good correlation Correlation coefficient r = 0.960). The determination of the EF of coronary patients at rest and especially during exercise, from the point of view of rehabilitation, is of great practical relevance, allowing the residual function of the myocardium after infarction and harmful overloading to be better defined.
Pediatric aspects of success and failure of anti-D-prophylaxis]	During the last 10 years 485 exchange transfusions have been performed in the Children's Hospital of the City of Vienna--Glanzing, about 25% for rhesus immunization. While the frequency of exchange transfusions due to hyperbilirubinaemia and ABO incompatibility could be reduced by 90% by phototherapy and phenobarbital prophylaxis, only 55% reduction was observed in connection with rhesus immunization. Anti-D prophylaxis after the 1. pregnancy had only been carried out in 5 mothers (seen as secunda or multi para). In the 221 cases where exchange transfusion became necessary, 196 mothers of these children never had anti-D prophylaxis. This corresponds to 98%. There were 126 women with multiple pregnancies without abortion and 70 mothers, where anti-D prophylaxis had not been carried out after abortion. Consequently anti-D prophylaxis, especially including abortions both natural and induced, could substantially reduce the number of rhesus-sensitized newborns, requiring exchange transfusion.
Asymmetries in body part size, mobility, and usage. Relationship between structure and function.	Asymmetries in structure (size) and function (usage or mobility) for the upper and lower face, hands, and feet were investigated in 42 left- and right-handed male and female college students. Size measurements were taken from photographs, mobility was rated from videotapes, and usage was assessed by questionnaire. Size asymmetries were typical, and independent of handedness, but were not consistent across body parts; usage asymmetries varied as a function of handedness. No systematic relationships were found between structure and function.
Structured exploratory data analysis (SEDA) of finger ridge-count inheritance: I. Major gene index, midparental correlation, and offspring-between-parents function in 125 south Indian families.	Fourteen dermatoglyphic traits measured on 125 Velanadu Brahmin families were analyzed for mode of inheritance using three Structured Exploratory Data Analysis (SEDA) statistics: the major gene index, the offspring between parents function, and the traditional midparental correlation coefficient. Since the traits are integer valued with restricted ranges of variation, we simulated various transmission models with discrete expression to better understand the nature of the SEDA statistics for such variables. In addition, permutation procedures were employed to aid the interpretation of the SEDA results. These analyses suggest that corresponding homologous fingers on the left and right hands exhibit similar transmission characteristics. The relationship of the parent and child total ridge-counts of the two hands separately, as well as their combined total, virtually simulate complete Galtonian blending inheritance. Results for the individual digital ridge-counts as well as the pattern-intensity-index variable also suggest a multifactorial mode of transmission or possibly one involving several genes.
Structured exploratory data analysis (SEDA) of finger ridge-count inheritance: II. Association arrays in parent-offspring and sib-sib pairs.	Familial similarity of the dermatoglyphic trait values of finger ridge-count scores and pattern intensity index is examined for 125 nuclear families from the Velanadu Brahmin population of Southern India by the method of association arrays. This methodology assesses parent-offspring and sibship similarity through a collection of measures of dependence that is sensitive to a variety of nonlinear trends and stochastic relationships between trait values. The method is used in conjunction with various weights to determine the relationship between family size and the level and form of dependence. These analyses reveal that siblings are most strongly associated for ridge-counts of the middle digit and less associated for the thumb and fifth digit ridge-counts. Further, sibship similarity for ridge-counts increases with family size for the thumb and fifth digit but remains relatively constant over all family sizes for the middle finger. Family size effects are also observed for total ridge-counts of the left hand, right hand, and both hands combined, and for the pattern intensity index. These effects of family size may be due to the most pronounced changes occurring in the amniotic environment between the first and second pregnancy, which are most strongly manifested in the sibship associations of smaller families.
Lack of efficacy of xeroradiography to preoperatively detect axillary lymph node metastases in breast cancer.	Xeroradiography of the axilla was performed in 132 patients with operable breast cancer to investigate the status of the axillary lymph nodes. Pathologic findings were correlated with the results of clinical examination and xeroradiographic findings. Xeroradiography does not appear to have improved our ability to identify axillary lymph node metastases in patients with breast cancer.
Modeling the growth pattern of premature infants.	A model for the accretion of weight of premature infants from birth to hospital discharge has been studied for goodness of fit and other qualities. The model has been fitted to data for weight of 22 infants with typical growth patterns and to a full range of standard premature growth curves. It was found that the model fitted well to the data suggesting its value as an analytic tool in studies of premature growth.
Improvements to the mathematical description of prenatal growth.	The exponential form of growth was used to describe prenatal growth in mouse, rat, guinea pig, swine, sheep, cattle and man. Instantaneous growth rate was permitted to vary as a function of time and, in litter bearing species, number of fetuses. Models for which instantaneous growth rate decreased linearly in time had a tendency to overestimate fetal weight from mid-gestation until midway through the last trimester of pregnancy and subsequently, underestimate fetal weight. When instantaneous growth rate varied as a quadratic function of time, a more accurate and precise prediction of fetal weights resulted.
A test for the evaluation of the amplitude distribution of the EEG]	After a critical analysis of the available publications, a new test for the examination of the EEG amplitudes with respect to a normal distribution is presented. By means of autoregressive models, a linear transformation of the EEG to noise signals of a low-degree correlation is carried out, the normal distribution which is studied with respect to obliquenes and excess. In this way, the compromise between the demands for a low scanning frequency, a large extent of random tests and short EEG intervals, which is necessary for the correct application of the adaptation test, is avoided. A total of 82 percent of the tested 40 EEG intervals showed a normal distribution, EEG's with slight general changes being more frequent than alpha-EEG's.
Mathematical approach to some methodological difficulties in settling newborn IgE reference levels (study in a Portuguese population).	The authors used statistical procedures to attempt to solve the usual methodological difficulties inherent in the determination of neonatal IgE reference values. The problem of un detectable values was overcome by theoretical estimation of their distribution, through the regression of the probits of the cummulative frequencies of the determinations on the natural logarithms of the known concentrations. Thus, the geometrical mean and 95% confidence limits were established, and population selection was replaced by exclusion of aberrant observations in successive steps, with recalculation of reference values. The final geometrical mean obtained was 0.21 I.U./ml with 95% confidence limits of 0.03 and 1.54 I.U./ml. These results have been compared with the work presented by other authors, observed differences probably reflecting distinct methodologies.
Statistical models for evaluation of pleural effusions.	Statistical models designed to aid in the identification of neoplastic effusions were formulated. A computer program utilizing n-chotomous, multivariate probit analysis was used for estimation of model parameters. These parameters were estimated for an illustrative sample of 88 patients with effusions of unknown etiology. The outstanding feature of the statistical approach is its potential as a diagnostic and research tool. Regarding its diagnostic potential, if carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) levels of plasma (PLAS-CEA) and pleural fluid (PLFL-CEA) were used separately, PLAS-CEA values greater than 4.833 ng/ml and PLFL-CEA values greater than 4.193 ng/ml discriminated malignant from benign effusions. Elevated CEA levels in conjunction with cell block examination noticeably improved diagnostic efficacy. The thresholds are consistent with CEA levels found by other investigators. Furthermore, the method employed is specific in predicting the probability that a given effusion is malignant. Regarding its research potential, the efficacy of different sets of tests in predicting malignancy can be simultaneously and comparatively evaluated.
Group processes in helping groups: toward a developmental perspective.	Ten interaction dimensions of group behavior and three emotional atmosphere categories were coded and analyzed on the basis of interactions among old and young participants in experimental "support-discussion" groups. The seven groups of elderly and five groups of young differed significantly with respect to frequencies of Boundary, Self-disclosure, and Support behaviors. In addition, the young were rated as showing signs of boredom more frequently. The implications of these results for development and age-linked assumptions about helping group interactions and interventions were explored. The results suggest that this approach is promising in generating knowledge that could facilitate age-appropriate group intervention strategies.
Return for service analysis over 4 years for 100 alcoholics.	This project attempted to predict return for aftercare-type services following discharge from an intermediate care facility for 100 alcoholics. The predictive set included 28 scales from a psychological questionnaire, factor analyzed into 10 second-order dimensions. The degree of autocorrelation of treatment statuses (present vs absent) over a 4-year follow-up period preceded the attempt to generate a predictive equation. Results are discussed with regard to program management, alcoholic personality studies, service models, and cost of care.
Mathematical analysis of antiserum titre and affinity in rabbits injected with 11 alpha OH-progesterone-hemisuccinate-BSA.	A mathematical procedure is presented here to determine the behaviour of antiserum titre in rabbits, after repeated injections of 11 alpha OH-Progesterone-hemisuccinate-BSA. By means of methods recently applied to the time series, the peaks of maximum response were determined. A common behaviour of rabbits was revealed for the delay times in the response after each booster injection. The titre and affinity of antiserum were determined by means of a special method for mathematical treatment of data in RIA analysis, which gives directly such parameters with a statistical interpretation.
Current methods in automated statistical analysis]	The advantages and disadvantages of the so called minicomputers (e.g. type NOVA) and microcomputers (e.g. type NR 95) are compared in their use for statistical analysis. In spite of some advantages - autonomy, possibilities for immediate use, etc. of microcomputers, the minicomputers, type NOVA, were established to enable the elimination of their non-specific work for the non-mathematical specialists, their direction to the most proper and complexly applied statistical method in the organized statistical processing, existing at the Institute of Hygiene and Occupational Diseases, hence the expenditures would be lower and reability - higher.
Methods for age-adjustment of rates.	Different age structures in two populations complicate any comparison of their levels of mortality. Many methods exist which provide death rates or mortality indices adjusted for age and other factors. Such summary measures inevitably lose information, but they are useful for the initial examination of large quantities of data and for the presentation of results. This paper reviews a number of techniques available for producing age-adjusted death rates or mortality indices, emphasizing their historical development. Formulae are given for their calculation. The appropriate context for using each method, and its associated disadvantages are described.
Adjusting proportional mortality ratios for the influence of extraneous causes of death.	Proportional mortality ratios (PMRs) are frequently used where denominators of the population at risk are not available or are known to be seriously biased. The interpretation of proportional measures requires care and can be complicated by the fact that a PMR of a cause of interest may be affected by disproportionate mortality from one or more other causes of death. This problem is examined using occupational mortality data for England and Wales. A method of allowing for the influence of other causes of death on a PMR of interest is proposed and it is argued that this approach is a useful aid to the general interpretation of PMRs.
An investigation of an excess incidence of heart disease.	In a large complex chemical company, it is difficult to distinguish clusters of disease of occupational origin from those due to non-occupational factors and those that have arisen by chance. The mechanical application of statistical procedures to health data to detect occupational hazards will produce many false positives. More refined techniques were used to demonstrate that the incidence of coronary disease at a small site was too high to be attributed to chance alone. An intensive search for a causative factor proved abortive.
Relation of blood viscosity, plasma viscosity and hematocrit]	The results from 398 consecutive measurements of blood viscosity, plasma viscosity and hematocrit were submitted to a statistical analysis. Hematocrit appeared to be the main determinant of blood viscosity, even though its influence was not so strong as illustrated in previous investigations. The correlation between blood viscosity and hematocrit appeared strictly connected with the red cell amount of the blood sample, being higher when the latter exceeded its physiological range; this correlation disappeared when red blood cell amount was strongly reduced, while the correlation between plasma viscosity and blood viscosity had an opposite behaviour. From these results we can conclude that correlations between hematocrit and plasma viscosity with blood viscosity have opposite trends and that a reciprocal interference is often present.
Some remarks on the operation of biases.	Etiologic research is easily invalidated by wrong conclusions based on the use of dubious methods of study design or data analysis. This paper discusses three central types of validity concepts, namely, selection bias, information bias, and confounding bias. Bias is defined in statistical terms as a misrepresentation of an effect measure, such as disease rate ratio. The discussion is presented basically within the framework of fourfold frequency table data to investigate the dependence of the presence or absence of a disease on a dichotomous exposure variate. A brief review of the statistical strategies and techniques available for controlling confounding is given. The issue of properly measuring a true confounder is dealt with in some detail because of its importance for the avoidance of biased estimates. The presentation concentrates on pointing out the direction and magnitude of the distortion caused by the operation of these sources of error.
Comparative studies of the analytical reliability of the results of various hematologic tests]	In connection with the implementation of new methods and apparatuses for the determination of hemoglobin, hematocrit, erythrocytes, MCV, MCH, MCHC and leukocytes, the reproducibility was studied in series, compared with the arithmetical means and standard deviations and correlation analysis of the results was performed. Manual and automated, to various degrees, investigation methods were used. The reproducibility in hemoglobin determination was very good, with no significant differences between the means of the different methodical variants. The microhematocrit method provided a very good reproducibility for hematocrit, with significant differences in the means of the three methods used. The reproducibility of erythrocytes was between 1,09% and 2,34%. VK of leukocytes ranged from 2,0% to 5,73%. The differences between the means of the different methods for erythrocyte count and, in the majority of the cases, for leukocytes, allow the statistically significant comparability of the results. The best reproducibility from the mathematical indices of erythrocytes was obtained for MCHC. The correlation analysis showed a positive correlation between the methods compared in all parameters studied.
Capacitance in ant cuticle is frequency dependent: a statistical model.	The capacitance and the electric resistance of the cuticle of the ant Cataglyphis bicolor nigra Andr é (Hymenoptera, Formicinae ) were measured. The measurements were done at the frequencies 100 Hz and 1000 Hz and at a temperature range of 27.5-45 degrees C. Inverse correlation was observed between the capacitance and the frequency, so that at the higher frequency the capacitance was lower. Thus, in some instances, at 1000 Hz the capacitance ranged between 0.49 and 2. 16nF , while at 100 Hz it ranged between 5.74 and 19. 39nF at the measured temperature range. A similar inverse correlation was detected also between the resistance and the frequency. At 1000 Hz, the resistance values in some specimens ranged between 0.166 and 0.278 M omega whereas at 100 Hz they varied between 0.342 and 0.883 M omega. At both frequencies measured there was a temperature-dependence of the capacitance and of the electric resistance. With increase in temperature there was increase in the capacitance and a decrease in the resistance. Invariably, the trend of cuticular behavior was similar under cooling as under warming, but the values differed, creating a gap (hysteresis). Under cooling the resistance values were higher and the reverse was true for the capacitance. A statistical model is offered which graphically describes the behavior of the ant cuticle (resistance and capacitance) under changes in temperature and frequency. X-ray analysis of the cuticle revealed the presence of Ca as the most prominent element. Additional elements, but less prominent were P, S and K. It also contains Fe and Zn. The finding of a correlation between the capacitance and the frequency might lead to the following conclusions: that the measured system contains polarized substances; that the measured value in each case represents a resultant of values obtained from the measurement of more than one electrical circle (and probably more than one network of electrical circles); and that possibly a combination of (a) and (b) prevails. Presumably these changes in the capacitance and resistance at different temperatures and frequencies indicate that the ant cuticle is capable of responding to changes in the physical ambience , thus promoting proper ant spatial orientation and the pursuant behavior.
Prostaglandin in human breast cancer: Evidence suggesting that an elevated prostaglandin production is a marker of high metastatic potential for neoplastic cells.	Prostaglandin (PG) production by human breast cancers was investigated in 91 lesions selected so that the distribution of histologic type was similar to that of the general population of mammary carcinomas. With regard to the shape characteristics of the tumors, PG production was higher in lesions classified T1 and T2 than in lesions classified T3 and T4 (T-classification is based on extent of tumor as graded by the International Union Against Cancer), higher in tumors exhibiting a high cellularity than in lesions with a low tumor cell density and higher in tumors in which the cells were still adherent to each other. A high PG production was associated with the presence of neoplastic cells in tumor lymphatic and blood vessels and in axillary lymph nodes. PG production by node metastases was always higher than that by the primary tumor sites. The analysis of the stroma reaction and the presence of edema and necrosis suggest that an active PG synthesis occurred in lesions in which the tumor cell-surrounding stroma presented characteristics of low resistance to invasive growth of cancer cells. With regard to histologic differentiation and histoprognostic grade of lesions, PG production was elevated in carcinomas that retained a minute part of the acinoductal differentiation and in tumors with a moderate or high degree of cancer. A lesion containing a steroid receptor (SR) tended to produce less PG than did an SR-negative tumor. PG production increased slightly according to ages and times of menopause of the patients. PG production occurred early in the natural course of breast cancer and was elevated in tumors at a time when active tumor invasion proceeded. By contrast, PG production decreased later in the course of tumor development. These results indicated that elevated PG production can be used as a marker of high metastatic potential for neoplastic cells in breast cancer.
Interpretation of spectrophotometric absorbance values to define results of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method was used to classify bovine serum as positive, negative, or doubtful for antibodies to Brucella abortus. Spectrophotometric data from assays of 64 serologically positive and 32 serologically negative bovine sera were analyzed statistically to define the range of spectrophotometric absorbance values which classify sera. Statistical analysis indicated that absorbance values less than 0.08 should be considered negative and values greater than 0.14 should be considered positive, with intermediate values declared doubtful, and that the probability of erroneously classifying a positive serum as negative or a negative serum as positive is less than 0.005.
Transplantation - the Johannesburg experience. Current status and prospects for specific tolerance.	The experience, both clinical and experimental, of the Transplantation Service of the Johannesburg Hospital and Transplantation Research Unit of the University of the Witwatersrand is briefly reviewed. Results of clinical transplantation have not improved in recent years. However, selection of donor-recipient combinations with negative lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity and positive B-cell antibody cross-matches predicts success in over 90% of cases. Positive lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity cross-matches are associated with a prohibitive rate of graft loss from rejection. The goal of transplantation research is the production of specific immunological tolerance for the graft without the need for using permanent immuno-suppressive drug therapy which is responsible for the major cause of death after transplantation, namely infection. Studies to produce tolerance in the chacma baboon are briefly reviewed. Of all methods of immune modulation studied, none has approached in efficacy and predictability the current work involving total lymphoid irradiation and donor bone marrow infusion. This method holds out great promise for clinical application.
CT of the pretracheal retrocaval space.	The ability of computed tomography to visualize the normal pretracheal retrocaval (PTRC) space and its contents, at the level of the azygous arch, was investigated in 127 normal subjects. The scan level which shows the azygous vein entering the posterior aspect of the superior vena cava was analyzed. The perimeter of the PTRC space could be accurately delineated by following the trachea, azygous arch, superior vena cava, and aorta. The size, density, and contents of the PTRC space were measured. The surface area of the PTRC space increases significantly with the degree of mediastinal adiposity (p less than 0.0001), age (p less than 0.0001), and aortic unfolding (p less than 0.001). The mean density of the PTRC space was negative in the majority of subjects but varied from -107 to +48 H. Normal lymph nodes (azygous nodes) were detected in 88.1% of subjects. More than one lymph node was present in 29.9% of subjects. Three nodes were visible in each of nine subjects. There were 160 lymph nodes with a diameter of 5.5 +/- 2.8 mm visable in the 127 subjects. Eleven nodes were larger than 10 mm. Normal azygous lymph nodes can be visualized and subtle enlargement of these nodes detected.
Forecasting the development of primary hepatocellular carcinoma by the use of risk factors: studies in West Africa.	An association between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and primary hepatocellular carcinoma (PHC) has been found in several studies in Africa, Asia, and elsewhere. In this paper we considered the interrelations between several events related to HBV infection, which include the presence of: 1) hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), 2) antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc), 3) antibody to the surface antigen (anti-HBs), 4) chronic liver disease, 5) elevated alpha-fetoprotein, and 6) PHC. With the use of preliminary epidemiologic data, risk factors related to these events were calculated. We suggested that the interactions between these events and HBV infection in parents be used to estimate the risk of PHC for an individual in this environment.
To define sufficient subjects.	The problem of how many subjects are required for a particular investigation can be solved. Techniques developed to allow experimenters to determine the statistical power of their experiments can be adapted to this end provided that the investigator is prepared to define the significance level and, more importantly, the minimum strength of experimental effect that is of interest. The experience described in this article demonstrates that the process demands consideration of a number of factors like the nature of the dependent variable, the form of the decision being made, and the minimum difference between conditions which has practical consequence.
A case study of statistics in the regulatory process: the FD&C Red No. 40 experiments.	Unexpected findings in a mouse study in which the safety of FD&C No. 40 (Red 40) was examined led to additional experimentation and to new statistical analyses and models. The possibility of acceleration of tumors raised questions about an operational definition of acceleration and of appropriate statistical methods for assessing acceleration, especially in the face of data dredging. The evaluation of Red 40 was further complicated by cage and litter effects and the multigenerational design. In this report the investigations of these studies are reviewed and are used to illustrate how new scientific work can emerge through the regulatory process. A number of issues in animal experimentation that need to be examind are indicated.
The concept of medical usefulness in clinical chemistry and the difficulty of applying it to questions of research policy.	An overview is given of the main difficulties encountered when trying to apply the concept of medical usefulness to "analytical goal-setting" in clinical chemistry. As part of the essay the elements of medical decision theory are explained, and previous attempts at answering the questions we are facing are contrasted with the answers or approaches suggested by decision theory. Among the difficulties are the multitude of purposes for which clinical data are collected, the vast number of unknowns and ill-defined elements in medical practice, the limitations of the clinician's mind as processor of information, and the need to take the entire health budget into account when planning research and development in a particular speciality. Clinical chemists should resist the temptation to stick to over-simplified pictures of the use that the clinician makes of diagnostic tests, of the consequences of his decisions for the patient's welfare, and of the desirability of accuracy and precision per se. For several reasons the inventory of tests should not proliferate too fast. Evaluation in terms of tail areas (false positives and negatives, etc.) is faulted for being unrealistic.
Methods and approaches to determine "optimal" quality for clinical chemical data.	Although clinical reasoning and decision-making may be very complex, there are methods to perform both piecemeal and more complete optimizations with regard to the use of clinical chemical data and for assessing quality specification. Some methods and approaches are described and illustrated with examples: (i) rules for propagation of errors in simple algebraic/statistical transformations; (ii) systems and sensitivity analysis using biochemical/pathophysiological simulation models; (iii) systems and sensitivity analysis of simulated clinical classification and decision processes. It is concluded that the possible gain of useful information by improving analytical and pre-analytical quality should be related to the often more important aspects of test selection test and test combination, period and frequency of observation, and the use of correct conceptual models for transformation of data.
Influence of analytical quality on the diagnostic power of a single S-CK B test in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction.	We have compared tow theoretical methods for assessing the effects of changing analytical quality of a clinical chemical test. The test considered was S-creatine kinase B subunit activity, used as the only diagnostic criterion for acute myocardial infarction. The two methods applied were based on (i) graphical analysis, and (ii) computer simulation. The results comprise the effects of changing analytical imprecision and bias on the weighted sum of misclassified cases on basis of the test results. The two methods yield comparable results at high analytical imprecision, but due to differences in assumptions about the error distribution of test results the difference increases with increased analytical imprecision. The graphical analysis is easily performed but is restricted in possible applications. The computer simulation is not a generally available methodology, but allows for mixing of different types of statistical distributions, which is not the case in conventional variance analysis.
Empirical verification of confidence intervals computed from dental data.	Sampling experiments were conducted on five distributions of dental epidemiological data which varied in degree of positive skew. The tendency of nominal confidence intervals to be underestimated and asymmetric in the two tails increased with skew and decreased with increasing sample size. The findings conform to theoretical expectations and demonstrate the importance of the normality assumption regarding sampling distributions. A rule is presented which identifies a sample size so that the 95% confidence probability statement would be incorrect no more than 6% of the time.
Glucose and insulin response to a glucose load in Salisbury blacks: Part II. the contrast with whites.	Rhodesian Whites have a higher prevalence than Blacks of diabetes mellitus, a disease with a recognized genetic factor. The glucose tolerance test results of Black and White men standarized for age and occupation were compared, and then the interaction between serum glucose, insulin and a selection of other factors was contrasted statistically by race. Serum glucose concentrations, but no insulin values, differed by race in subjects with similar occupations. The interaction of glucose but not insulin with age, body mass index, and maximum volume of oxygen per kilogram body mass also differed by race. Serum insulin values vaired with cigarette smoking in Blacks. As serum insulin but not glucose also varied cross-sectionally in Blacks with increasing standards of living, there is further mathematical evidence that serum glucose concentrations are more directly under genetic control than are insulin concentrations. Differences in the serum insulin concentrations between Blacks and Whites in Rhodesia are probably caused by environmental factors.
An interlaboratory study of the determination of digoxin by immunoassay.	We conducted a voluntary survey of laboratories and manufacturers to assess the current quality of analytical assays for serum digoxin. More than 300 clinical laboratories and 18 manufacturers responded, giving data on methods, instruments, computational procedures, and results for five survey samples. We sorted the analytical data to provide statistical information on the grand mean values separately for manufacturers and clinical laboratories, the frequency distribution of all reported values, and the mean values by method of interpolation and algorithms used for linear transformation. There was no statistical difference (alpha = 0.05) between the means for each specimen as determined by the kit manufacturers as a group and the clinical laboratories as a group.
Aspects of suicide]	A review of relevant publications with reference to epidemiological data and their application to predictive profiles of at-risk populations regarding suicide and attempted suicide is given. It is indicated that suicide and parasuicide are to be seen as sociocultural problems with a complexity of contributing factors. Conscious and subconscious motives play a part within a psycho-existential continuum with intrapsychic, interpersonal, biological, psychological and social components. This spectrum of individualized components and the social impact of the deed present the clinician with a psychiatric emergency for which he must be adequately equipped. Management based on a team approach is delineated.
Extended clinical trial and evaluation of glucose determination with the Eastman Kodak Ektachem GLU/BUN Analyzer.	We followed the "abbreviated precision protocol" of the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards for the evaluation of precision, accuracy, and carryover in analyses for glucose with the "Ektachem." We analyzed 760 clinical samples by this technique, by the FDA Proposed Class Standard glucose reference method, and with the Beckman System I GLU/BUN Analyzer. Precision and accuracy were estimated for 500, 1000, 1200, 1500, and 3000 mg/L glucose concentrations in 100, 30, or 20 microL of serum or plasma. Potential interference of 19 compounds was evaluated. Random error (1.965 X SD) was 22, 30, 34, 40, and 88 mg/L. Systematic error was 8, 1.5, -2, -5, and -27 mg/L. Total analytical error was 30, 32, 36, 46, and 110 mg/L for analysis of 100 microL of serum at the above-stated glucose concentrations. The greatest interference (-39 mg/L) in the glucose (at 1200 mg/L) determination was caused by L-ascorbate (40 mg/L). Glucose concentrations as determined with the Ektachem were found to be linearly related to the expected concentration up to at least 5660 mg/L. Carryover was not statistically significant.
Reduction by naproxen of excessive menstrual bleeding in women using intrauterine devices.	Thirty-four patients using intrauterine contraceptive devices and experiencing excessive menstrual bleeding (more than 80 ml average loss for 2 cycles) were treated with the prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor naproxen. The trial was conducted according to a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design. Each patient received 2 of 3 treatments: naproxen in high dose (1250 mg/day for 5 days), naproxen in low dose (500-mg loading dose, than 750 mg/day for 5 days), or placebo. Each treatment was taken during 2 consecutive menstruations. When all data were pooled, statistically significant reduction in menstrual bleeding was found with both high- and low-dose naproxen treatment compared with placebo therapy (P < .002). Low- and high-dose naproxen reduced menstrual blood loss by 22% and 32%, respectively, whereas the change with placebo was minimal. Although the dose had no significant effect on mean menstrual loss, the number of treatment cycles in which menstrual blood loss was reduced by 50% as compared with pretreatment cycles strongly suggested a dose response. In almost 60% of naproxen-treated cycles, mean menstrual blood loss was less than 80 ml, whereas during placebo-treated cycles the distribution of menstrual loss was similar to that of control cycles.
Genetic analysis of the Stanford LRC family study data. I. Structured exploratory data analysis of height and weight measurements.	A new methodology for determining mode for inheritance of continuously distributed traits in nuclear families, structured exploratory data analysis (SEDA), is described and applied to height and weight measurements. The family data were collected as part of the Lipid Research Clinic's collaborative study (LRC) and consists of first degree relatives of Stanford University employees who were selected either as a 2% random sample or were identified through a high lipid value. The variables are all standardized using three methods of age and sex adjustment based on two reference populations. The analysis and interpretations are based on the following statistics and indices: 1) the major gene index (MGI (alpha); 2) two measures of correlations between the midparental value and offspring (MPCC); and 3) the offspring between parent functions (OBP (beta). Consistent with a number of other studies, the results support that height shows multifactorial inheritance while height is principally under the influence of non-genetic environmental factors. In contrast to the random families, the male children of the probands who were selected due to their high lipid values exhibit height measurements which appear to involve environmental components or some major gene concomitants. The difference between the random and high lipid families is supported by all three statistical methods.
The Pearl Pregnancy Index reexamined: still useful for clinical trials of contraceptives.	Data from 25 studies of intrauterine contraceptive devices show close agreement between the Pearl Pregnancy Index and a cumulative, 12 month, life-table pregnancy rate. Analysis of data from the early stages of these clinical trials shows the Pearl Index to be superior to the short-term life table in predicting the outcome of the study. The error introduced by using the Pearl Index as a single measure of contraceptive efficacy in clinical trials, under conditions in which those trials are often carried out, is probably very minor compared to the effect of situational factors that affect studies and to differences among various life-table methodologies. The real strength of the life-table analysis of contraceptive performance is not the single, summary, 12 month pregnancy rate it provides, but the complete picture of various reasons for termination over time, particularly when a large number of woman-months of experience has accrued.
The effect of a thirty per cent reduction in physician fees on Medicaid surgery rates in Massachusetts.	In this paper, we use an interrupted time series analysis to assess the effect of a 30 per cent reduction in the Medicaid reimbursement fee for physician services on the rate at which eight elective surgical procedures were performed in the Massachusetts Medicaid population. Tonsillectomy/adenoidectomy is the only procedure in which there was a statistically significant decline in the rate of surgery in most areas of the state following the fee cut. There is some evidence of an increase in the rate of disc surgeries/spinal fusions. The rate of other procedures increased in some areas of the state and decreased in other areas in the period after the fee cut.
Problems and advantages of an observational data base approach to evaluating the effect of therapy on outcome.	In this report, we summarize the strengths and problems of an observational data base approach to evaluating therapy and studying patient outcomes in long-term chronic disease. Because this approach includes a greater spectrum of patients than randomized clinical trials, it offers a definite advantage with regard to the elucidation of prognostic factors and the application of results to specific patients. The major difficulty with the observational data base approach is that the important prognostic factors must be known for treatment comparisons to be valid. Both the observational data base and randomized trial approaches are susceptible to criticism because the multiple comparisons and multiple experiments usually involved make the results of any one study not definitive. Either approach is useful in generating or confirming a hypothesis about particular subgroups. Regardless of the method used, proof that a particular therapy increases survival in any group or subgroup of patients with coronary artery disease usually requires confirmation by multiple studies. Finally, observational data base approach, because it capitalizes on data generated and paid for in the patient care process, offers the most feasible approach for evaluating whether changes in prognosis are occurring over time and whether such changes are independent of the mix of the patient population.
The University of Rochester Associated Hospitals Program in internal medicine. Seven years experience with an innovative city-wide residency for preparation of general internists.	The Associated Hospitals Program (AHP), with a total of 61 residents, engages the staff, patients and facilities of six hospitals and selected community health centers and private practices. The AHP in interlocked with separately accredited residencies in internal medicine in the participating hospitals and provides experiences, especially with ambulant patients, beyond those of more traditional programs in internal medicine. Strategies used by the AHP are minimally dependent upon grants from governmental and private sources for support of the basic three-year program. About one-third of the residents enter practice after completing the basic program; the larger share have a wide range of engagements in the fourth and fifth post-doctoral years for enhancement of clinical and teaching abilities and for critical study of health care. Eighty-seven, or 94 percent, of the 93 alumni are engaged in practice, and many also in teaching, of general internal medicine. Included in the 87 alumni are 12 of 18 residents who had two-year fellowships in medical subspecialties after completion of the AHP residency. The alumni have wide geographic distribution; 33 are practicing in communities with populations of less than 100,000 and 17 of these 33 are in communities of less than 25,000 persons.
The contributions of Jerome Cornfield to the theory of statistics.	This paper is a review of the contributions of Jerome Cornfield to the theory of statistics. It discusses several highlights of his theoretical work as well as describing his philosophy relating theory to application. The three areas discussed are: linear programming, urn sampling and its generalizations to the analysis of variance, and Bayesian inference. It is not widely known that Jerome Cornfield was perhaps the first to formulate and approximately solve the linear programming problem in 1941. His formulation was made for the famous "Diet Problem". An early publication introduced the method of indicator random variables in the context of urn sampling. This simple method allowed straightforward calculations of the low order moments for estimates arising from sampling finite populations and was later generalized to the two-way analysis of variance. The application of the urn sampling model to the analysis of variance served to illuminate how one chooses proper error terms for making tests in the analysis of variance table. Jerome Cornfield's philosophy on applications of statistics was dominated by a Bayesian outlook. His theoretical contributions in the past two decades were mainly concerned with the development of Bayesian ideas and methods. A brief survey is made of his main contributions to this area. A particularly noteworthy result was his demonstration that for the two-sample slippage problem of location, the likelihood function under a permutation setting is uninformative for the slippage parameter. However, the posterior distribution differs from the prior distribution despite the fact that the likelihood is uninformative.
The assessment of low-dose carcinogenicity.	The assessment of carcinogenic risk from very low doses of substances to which the population is exposed depends mainly on animal experiments. A variety of statistical models has been proposed for extrapolation to low doses from the much higher doses administered to animals. The most conservative approach uses a multistage model, and is almost equivalent to linear extrapolation. Cornfield has argued against a conservative approach, but linear extrapolation may also be close to the 'best' solution. Species conversion and specification of allowable risks are very difficult problems, and some form of cost-benefit analysis seems to be required.
Current research in statistical methodology for clinical trials.	Statistical Methodology for Clinical Trials has advanced primarily in those domains opened up by the advent of high speed computation. Data acquisition, data management, and data monitoring have been revolutionized, and statistical analysis in clinical trials has advanced from simple cross tabulation and lists of averages to the use of special regression and other methods for estimation and for covariance adjustment. Research on sequential designs has had little effect on practice, largely because the usual sequential methods fail to address the key problems posed by ethical constraints, but a related development of research on "stopping rules" seems promising. Although considerable attention has been given to the problems of multiplicity--analysis of subgroups, choice of endpoints, post-randomization exclusions--little progress in this area has been made as yet. The paper explores these issues in some detail with the aid of illustrative examples.
Jerome Cornfield's contributions to the conduct of clinical trials.	Jerome Cornfield's important contributions to the conduct of clinical trials are summarized here. They include consultative advice in the planning of many national trials, active collaboration in the conduct of many others, discussions of the role of classical and Bayesian methods of statistical inference in clinical trials, recommendations on data monitoring, contributions to the analysis of results of the University Group Diabetes Project, and efforts to assist the planning of coronary intervention trials with quantitative assessments of possible reductions in disease rates due to intervention on smoking and diet. An attempt is made to evaluate the impact of Cornfield's contributions to clinical trials.
Jerome Cornfield's contributions to epidemiology.	This paper reviews the contributions Jerome Cornfield made to epidemiologic methodology. Section 2 discusses his development of the odds ratio obtained in a case-control study as an estimate of the relative risk of the disease under study. Section 3 presents Cornfield's introduction of the multiple logistic risk function as a smoothing function for data classified in a multi-way contingency table in order to determine the joint effects of several risk factors on the incidence of a disease. Section 4 gives a brief description of his work in the analysis of contingency tables. In Section 5, there is a summary of his views on a number of issues relating to the research, mostly case-control studies, on the relationship between smoking and lung cancer. The discussion in this section is selective and undoubtedly does not reflect all the important things he had to say on the subject. Finally, in Section 6, there is a discussion, based on only one of his papers on the subject, of some very significant thoughts on intervention studies in coronary disease.
Statistical analysis of comparative field trials of acute rodenticides.	The present method of analysis of data from comparative field trials of acute rodenticides was compared with two alternative methods of analysis, using computer simulation techniques. One of the proposed alternative analyses, the use of post-treatment census takes as a percentage of pre-treatment census takes in an analysis of variance, was found to be more accurate, to avoid a theoretical difficulty associated with the present method, and is computationally much simpler.
Period-peak analysis of the EEG with microprocessor applications.	This paper describes the development and evaluation of a period-peak algorithm for background analysis of the clinical electroencephalogram (EEG). The procedure is a time-domain method which is harmonious with manual interpretation of the EEG tracing. Conceptually the algorithm functions in 2 modes. Major counts are detected by successive baseline crossings in the period analysis mode. Presence of superimposed activity between major-counts induces a transition to the peak-detection mode. In this manner, period-peak analysis is capable of detecting the simultaneity of slow base-waves and relatively fast superimposed activity in the EEG. Preliminary studies have been conducted in which the analysis results of this procedure were compared to those of other EEG algorithms. In general, the period-peak algorithm offered less bias towards either end of the EEG spectrum. Subsequent to testing of a FORTRAN version, the period-peak algorithm has been implemented in assembly language on a dedicated microprocessor system for on-line analysis of EEG data.
Software system for real-time discrimination of multi-unit nerve impulses.	We have developed a computer program to separate a unit of interest from multi-units of nerve impulses on an on-line, real-time operation basis. This method is divided into two phases: (1) the learning phase; (2) the hunting phase. In the learning phase, the user specifies spike patterns of a random unit from among varied spike trains displayed on CRT. The template for the unit is also constructed. In the hunting phase, the detection of spikes is carried out followed by almost simultaneous template-matching. As soon as a spike is established to be identical with the learned pattern, time information is delivered to the main memory of the computer.
DISBAR: a program for two-group discriminant analysis on mixed variables after binary coding.	The program DISBAR is particularly adapted to medical data which often concern several measurements of different types (mixed variables) collected on patients divided into 2 groups according to a binary response variable such as survival or non-survival. DISBAR leads to a simple geometrical representation of the observations providing an easy allocation rule for a new case. The computer time required to run the program DISBAR is negligible in comparison with the one necessary to perform any other discriminant analysis of binary variables. DISBAR combines in practice computational facility with good results and easy interpretation.
Relationship of air lead and blood lead for workers at an automobile battery factory.	Air lead and blood lead data, recorded over a period of 3 years for 972 employees at an automobile battery factory as part of a lead control program, were summarized and statistically analyzed. The air lead values were measured by mobile area samplers for approximately 2 years and then by personal samplers for approximately 1 year. Blood lead analyses were usually performed once a month for most of the workers. The trend in air lead levels was significantly upward in the 1st year and significantly downward in the 2nd year while the trend in blood lead levels was significantly downward in the 1st year and in the 3rd year. There were no other significant trends. To assess the relationship between air lead and blood lead, data were used whenever an air lead obtained by personal sampler was followed within 1 month by a blood lead on the same worker. The variables age, job tenure, and department identity were included in an analysis of covariance. Only air lead and departments were significant, accounting for 9% and 13% of the variance in blood lead, respectively. From these data 95% confidence limits were calculated for predicting blood leads from given air leads for an individual worker. These were 30-68 micrograms/100 ml at 200 micrograms/m3, 25-62 micrograms/100 ml at 100 micrograms/m3, and 22-60 micrograms/100 ml at 50 micrograms/m3.
A cohort analysis of U.S. stomach cancer mortality 1950-1977.	Models of human carcinogenesis, such as the multi-stage model of Armitage and Doll, are designed to explain the age increase in the incidence of cancers in individuals. As a consequence, analyses of population level age-specific death rates via such models are appropriately applied to cohort data where such data are available. In this study a multi-stage model is applied to cohort data for stomach cancer death rates in the U.S. population for nine distinct cohorts observed over a recent 28-year period (1950-1977). The multi-stage model parameters obtained from the analysis of the cohort data show significant differences from the parameters obtained from analyses of cross-sectional mortality data under the assumption of no cohort differences in age-specific stomach cancer death rates.
The inheritance of serum cholesterol: adjustment of observed cholesterol levels for age, sex and body weight using inverse-polynomial regression.	Adjustment of observed serum cholesterol levels for biological and environmental variables is an essential step in studying the mode of inheritance of serum cholesterol. Body weight, measured as weight/height2, is found to be an important variable not previously taken into account in regression equations. A method is given for adjusting cholesterol levels for age, sex and body weight, thus obtaining residuals which represent the deviations of cholesterol levels from the mean of the general population for each category of these three factors. The procedure for incorporating into the model other variables, that are found to have a significant effect on cholesterol level, is described. Polynomials and inverse polynomials of degree three fit the data equally well over a restricted range. However, inverse polynomials are chosen as they appear to have a more appropriate shape and are likely to agree better with observed values over a greater age range.
Sensitivity analysis of a model for the environmental movement of radionuclides.	Results are presented from a sensitivity analysis study of a model developed to represent the environmental movement of radionuclides. This model is designated the Environmental Transport Model. The study has three purposes: (1) to develop sensitivity analysis techniques applicable to the Environmental Transport Model, (2) to provide insight and experience with respect to the performance of a sensitivity analysis of this model and (3) to develop understanding of the overall operation of the model and the variables which influence this operation. Two variations of a hypothetical river receiving a radionuclide discharge containing 99Tc, 245Cm, 241Pu, 234U, 230Th and 226Ra are defined. Independent variables of the following types are introduced: variables which define physical properties of the river system (e.g. soil depth, river discharge and sediment resuspension) and variables which summarize radionuclide, the following dependent variables are investigated: (1) radionuclide concentration in soil, (2) dissolved radionuclide concentration in surface-water and (3) total radionuclide concentration in surface-water. The investigation employs sensitivity analysis techniques based on Latin hypercube sampling, rank transformations and stepwise regression. Among the important variables indicated in the analysis are distribution coefficients, river discharge and suspended sediment concentration.
Functional diagrams of flow and volume for the dog's lung.	Quantitative diagrams have been constructed from data obtained in isolated perfused dog lungs for the multiple interrelationships among pressure, volume, and flow characteristics of the pulmonary vasculature. These characteristics are described in the form of functional diagrams for flows from 0.3 to 1.0 l . min-1 . 100 g wet lung weight-1 (WLW), for venous pressures from -8 to +14 Torr, and for arterial pressures from 16 to 30 Torr. The quantitative relationships were shown not to change significantly as the transpulmonary pressure changes within the range from 3 to 10 Torr. The change in blood volume with arterial pressure, called the "distributed arterial compliance," averaged 1.5 g . Torr-1 . 100 g WLW-1. This compliance was nearly constant over the range of arterial pressure studied. On the other hand, the change in blood volume with venous pressure, called the "distributed venous compliance" was different for different levels of venous pressures. Its maximum value was 1.04 g . Torr-1 . 100 g WLW-1 when the venous pressure was near 2 Torr. At venous pressures both above and below this pressure level this compliance decreased. These distributed compliances are described as resulting to a significant extent from changes in flow patterns through the pulmonary circulation rather than being direct indications of the true vascular compliances.
Impact of numbers and frequency of weighings on bovine weight-age curve parameters.	Estimates of mature weight (A) and maturing rate (K), determined by asymptotic regression, were studied to evaluate the effects of using quarterly weights taken in different seasons of the year for estimating growth curve parameters. Quarterly weights of 102 Angus cows were used to calculate eight sets of weight-age curves. Four sets of estimates were calculated from weights from birth to 5 yr of age (FIVE-YEAR curves) and four sets were calculated from all weights collected throughout the life of each cow (LIFETIME curves). Within each age group, one set of parameters was estimated from all weights up to the respective ages (FIVE-YEAR and LIFETIME). The other three sets, within each age, were based on quarterly weights from birth to 1 yr of age plus one weight/year taken during the summer, fall or winter. The symbols A and K were used with the following subscripts: 0 or 5 as a first digit to represent weight-age parameters estimated from all weights taken during the life of the cow and from weights taken before the cow was 5 yr old, respectively; and 0, 2, 3, or 4 as a second digit to represent all quarterly weight, summer, fall or winter weights, respectively. Mean estimates of mature weight were 496, 492, 492, 522, 483, 478, 487 and 508 kg for A00, A02, A03, A04, A50, A52, A53, and A54, respectively. Season of weighing affected both A and K. Coefficients of correlation among the estimates of mature weights were all positive and larger than .70. Coefficients of correlation among estimates of rate of maturing were larger than .50, except those involving the correlation of K00 and FIVE-YEAR estimates. This study indicates that weight-age characteristics estimated from quarterly weights from birth to 1 yr of age and a single annual weight from 1 to 5 yr are adequate for estimating practical weight-age parameters at an early cow age. However, in FIVE-YEAR estimates, the effect of a cow's being nonpregnant at 2, 3 or 5 yr of age and, in LIFETIME estimates, any open year, especially the terminal year, may result in serious bias.
The absence of temperature effects on end-diastolic pressure-volume relations in the canine left ventricle determined by two-dimensional echocardiography.	Because of divergent conclusions in the literature regarding the effects of temperature on end-diastolic compliance in the canine left ventricle (LV), pressure-volume relationships at normothermia and hypothermia (28 degrees C) were studied with two-dimensional ultrasound in nine dogs on cardiopulmonary bypass (open pericardium) over a range of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) from 0 to 22 mm Hg. Three perpendicular echocardiographic sections were used with Simpson's rule to measure LV volume and mass at end-diastole for each level of LVEDP. Temperature was varied between 37 degrees and 28 degrees C by systemic cooling, and heart rate was allowed to slow spontaneously with temperature reduction. There was no change in left ventricular end-diastole pressure-volume (LVEDP-LVEDV) relationships at lower temperature provided that ventricular relaxation was complete at end-diastole. In addition, serial postmortem pressure-volume curves carried out by direct saline infusion into sealed ventricles at 38 degrees and 28 degrees C in three additional dogs demonstrated no temperature effects on postmortem LV compliance. Postmortem mass correlated well with echocardiographically determined LV mass, which showed a significant increase during the period of cardiopulmonary bypass, correlating with the development of myocardial edema. In summary, there appears to be no effect of moderate hypothermia on LVEDP-LVEDV relationships, provided the heart is in true diastasis at end-diastole. In addition, echocardiographic techniques can be used to study LV mass change on cardiopulmonary bypass.
Individual variation in the perception of vowels: implications for a perception-production link.	A scaling experiment using dyadic comparisons of vowel pairs was performed to determine if significant perceptual variation existed on an individual level and whether such variation could be correlated with differences among subjects in their production of vowels. Subjects were required to scale six separate sets of vowel stimuli. Each stimulus set consisted of the 36 possible dyads from the vowel set /(see formula text)/. Analysis of the resulting data indicated that significant individual perceptual variation was present which could be seen as a function of perceptual structure differences between the subjects and not merely error variance. In addition, such variations were related to aspects of each subject's acoustic vowel space - indicators of tongue height and advancement during vowel articulation. These results were interpreted as suggesting a link between perception and production.
Statistical relationships among the first three formant frequencies in vowel segments in continuous speech.	Statistical relationships among F1, F2 and F3 in vowel segments in continuous speech were investigated with 909 vowel samples from Japanese sentences uttered by 4 adult male speakers. Determined by minimizing the square errors from the measured F3, two separate planes corresponding to front and back vowels are situated in the F1F2F3 space to obtain the F3 values estimated from F1 and F2. Estimation errors are found to be comparable to difference limens in hearing. Also, uniform/nonuniform formant frequency scaling is discussed in terms of physical differences in the planes for individual speakers.
Statistical malpractice in drug promotion: a case-study from Brazil.	The advertising practices employed by some drug corporations in peripheral countries have been criticised on medical and ethical grounds, mainly for failing to disclose the dangers and for exaggerating the properties of the promoted products. This paper reveals how statistical and methodological fallacies have also been employed in advertisements directed at Brazilian physicians in recent years. A large fraction of such promotional materials not only fail to support with evidence the claims being made but also employ faulty experimental design, analysis and presentation of results in order to impress upon doctors the quality of the drugs being advertised. Such practices, since they are likely to influence doctors to prescribe inadequate products, may represent a hazard to their patients' recovery.
Smoking prevalence and beliefs among adult Scots: implications for health education.	Interviews conducted with two samples totaling 918 adults in two areas of Scotland have yielded five major patterns of findings. (1) It seems that the gap between male and female smokers is decreasing. Comparisons with previous findings indicate that this is due to a decrease in the proportion of male smokers, whereas among female little change has occurred. (2) There are more ex-smokers among males than among females. Although the proportion of ex-smokers among males increased with age, there were no age differences among females in this respect. Furthermore, the proportion of ex-smokers was lower than comparable estimates for the UK as a whole. It is suggested that these findings point to a need for detailed research in Scotland into the "natural history" of smoking. (3) There were proportionally more smokers in the Glasgow/Edinburgh areas. However, this was almost entirely due to differences between respondents in socio-economic groups D and E. (4) There were relatively more smokers among respondents in lower socio-economic groups; however, this was due to differences between respondents in the Glasgow/Edinburgh areas. It is suggested that the social class gradient of smoking prevalence may be attenuated in areas outwith the major conurbations. (5) Most of the respondents thought that there is a link between smoking and ill-health. However, some groups differed with respect to the strength with which this belief is held. For example, respondent in the higher socio-economic groups tended to express this belief more strongly. This suggests that strategies in trying to reach lower socio-economic groups should be reconsidered.
The development of an index of high-risk pregnancy.	Presented is a scheme by which an index of high-risk pregnancy can be evaluated. The proposed scheme is applied to a risk index developed for the purpose of illustration. The usefulness of risk indices (or any other predictive measure) can be judged in clear statistical terms. The illustrative model developed here behaves similarly with each of the two sets of data on which it is tested, except to the extent that it is influenced by the incidence in the test population of the outcome to be predicted. The conclusion reached is that unreasonable demands are made of high-risk indices, that no index can satisfy all requirements. However, if the requirements are reasonably stated in advance, indices of high-risk pregnancy can be extremely useful.
Psychological reactions to amniocentesis: a controlled study.	Fifty women who underwent amniocentesis and a matched control group of pregnant women were administered the Symptom Questionnaire to evaluate changes in distress. Anxiety, depression, and somatic symptoms had significantly decreased after the results of amniocentesis were communicated to the patient, but the decrease was similar in the normal control women. Hostility was higher in the amniocentesis group and decreased to normal levels after amniocentesis was performed, even before the results were communicated to the patient.
Recognition of information in renal biopsies of patients with lupus nephritis.	To evaluate the informational value of renal biopsy in nephritis of systemic lupus erythematosus, we selected the records of 30 patients who had a renal biopsy done and also had a known clinical outcome. Detailed case histories were prepared, and three distinct randomly chosen cases were given to 197 academic rheumatologists. The rheumatologists estimated the probability of future clinical events (worsened serum creatinine, worsened urine protein, renal death, and aggressive therapy) at 3 and 12 months after the biopsy. Biopsy results were given in detail, and probability estimates were made of the same clinical events using the additional information. The accuracy of each probability estimate was measured using a scoring function that depends on the estimates and the actual outcomes. Knowledge of the renal biopsy failed to improve predictive accuracy scores of estimates of future serum creatinine levels, urine protein levels, and renal death at 3 and 12 months (p less than 0.0001), and for estimates of the probability of the use of aggressive therapy at 12 months (p less than 0.007). The renal biopsy information improved only the accuracy of predictions concerning the use of aggressive therapy at 3 months (p less than or equal to 0.0003). Knowledge of the renal biopsy results failed to add important prognostic information about the future course of treated lupus nephritis to information already obtained from history, physical examination, and laboratory tests.
Statistical methods in the study of toxic shock syndrome.	Analysis of statistical methods used in matched case-control studies of toxic shock syndrome shows that matching has implications for validity and precision of the studies and for the choice of analysis techniques. The studies considered accounted for the matching in the analysis, either by the Mantel-Haenszel or Miettinen-Pike-Morrow approach to 1-to-M matched designs, or by the use of conditional maximum likelihood fitting of logistic regression models. Methods of dealing with confounding and effect modification in the (matched) logistic regression model are presented in the context of studies of toxic shock syndrome. The varied statistical techniques used in these studies were generally appropriate to the matched design except that nonmatching variables were not thoroughly considered as effect modifiers or confounders.
Use of blood levels to infer carcass levels of contaminants.	Inferences may be made about the carcass levels of a contaminant based on the contaminant level in blood samples. A method is given for comparing such populations that utilizes bivariate normal distributions and their principal axes, thereby avoiding a dilemma arising from the use of regression techniques. Confidence intervals and power calculations are given. Data from captive barn owls provide partial justification for the use of this method.
A multi-stage Gaussian transformation algorithm for clinical laboratory data.	We have developed a multi-stage computer algorithm to transform non-normally distributed data to a normal distribution. This transformation is of value for calculation of laboratory reference intervals and for normalization of clinical laboratory variates before applying statistical procedures in which underlying data normality is assumed. The algorithm is able to normalize most laboratory data distributions with either negative or positive coefficients of skewness or kurtosis. Stepwise, a logarithmic transform removes asymmetry (skewness), then a Z-score transform and power function transform remove residual peakedness or flatness (kurtosis). Powerful statistical tests of data normality in the procedure help the user evaluate both the necessity for and the success of the data transformation. Erroneous assessments of data normality caused by rounded laboratory test values have been minimized by introducing computer-generated random noise into the data values. Reference interval endpoints that were estimated parametrically (mean +/- 2 SD) by using successfully transformed data were found to have a smaller root-mean-squared error than those estimated by the non-parametric percentile technique.
Individual mobility, population growth and labor force participation.	Trends in labor force participation rates and the age of retirement are shown to be important of upward mobility. Reductions in age specific participation rates increase the speed of movement through the employment hierarchy. In conjunction with economic development, the falling labor force participation of older men acts to offset the adverse effects of slowing population growth on promotional prospects. These conclusions are reached by extending a model of employment status developed by Keyfitz to limit employment competition to only those actually in labor force.
Confidence intervals for postcensal state population estimates.	This paper develops a methodology for constructing confidence intervals around postcensal state population estimates. Using regression equations, forecast intervals are derived around the average age-specific death rates over the postcensal estimation period. These results, combined with the number of postcensal deaths and the most current census counts, are translated into confidence intervals for the age structure. Two approaches are offered for constructing total population confidence intervals. One examines a simulated distribution while the other focuses on the mathematical derivation of population means and variances. The methodology is illustrated by deriving statistically defensible confidence intervals around the July 1, 1975 population of Florida.
The use of mortality time series data to produce hypothetical morbidity distributions and projects mortality trends.	It is difficult to obtain direct empirical estimates of chronic disease prevalence in the U.S. population. The available estimates are usually derived from epidemiological studies of selected populations. In this paper we present strategies for estimating morbidity distributions in the national population using auxiliary biomedical evidence and theory to estimate transitions to morbidity states from a cohort mortality time series. We present computational methods which employ these estimates of morbid state transitions to produce life table functions for both primary (morbidity) and secondary (mortality) decrements. These methods are illustrated using data on stomach cancer mortality for nine white male cohorts, aged 30 to 70 in 1950, observed for a 28-year period (1950 to 1977).
Prognostic indicators in breast cancer--morphometric methods.	Morphometric methods were applied to predict the clinical course of individual patients with breast cancer. Measurement of tumour diameter, assessment of mitotic and cellular indices, and quantitative microscopy of nuclear features were assessed together with nuclear features and histological grades. Of the tumours from 78 patients investigated, 42 had died from metastases within 6.5 years ('non-survivors'), while the other 36 were alive and well without evidence of metastases at the end of the follow-up period (minimum 6.5 years) ('survivors'). If the tumours of the 42 non-survivors are compared with those of 36 survivors, there are many reproducible significant differences, the most important being cellularity index and mitotic activity index, followed by quantitative microscopical nuclear parameters and nuclear and histological grade. Discriminant analysis, of the quantitative microscopical data alone showed 82% of all patients to be correctly classified as survivor or non-survivor. By contrast with the axillary lymph node invasion status alone, or the tumour diameter and axillary lymph node status together, 59% and 64% of the patients were predicted correctly as survivor or non-survivor. With a more realistic statistical approach of discriminant analysis, 78% of the patients were classified correctly with quantitative microscopy, in place of 54% with the axillary lymph node status, 56% with the TNM-system and 64% with a combination of TNM system and nuclear and histological grade. Morphometry thus seems possible to predict the outcome of individual patients more accurately than with the usual staging/grading methods. This technique might therefore prove to be useful in the selection of patients for adjuvant chemotherapy.
Comparison of two optimizing algorithms for cerebral blood flow analysis using the intravenous 133Xe wash-out method.	The analysis of cerebral blood flow data using intravenous injection and inhalation of 133Xe requires a correction for the arterial recirculation. With a multi-exponential transfer function a problem exists in estimating the non-linear parameters. In this paper conventional two-compartmental blood flow indices from the intravenous 133Xe clearance method are calculated using Marquardt and variable metric optimizing algorithms. Close agreement was found between these two methods in that they yield similar values for the cerebral transfer function.
An improved forced oscillatory estimation of respiratory impedance.	A new scheme of estimation is proposed for the determination of the total respiratory impedance (Zr) by forced oscillations. Instead of estimating Zr from the airflow at the mouth and the pressure drop across the respiratory system, Zr can be estimated from cross-power spectra between the electrical signal of the driving apparatus and the measured pressure and flow signals. since the electrical signal is free from any disturbance originating from spontaneous breathing, unlike the conventional techniques the proposed 'indirect' estimation of Zr is not subject to systematic errors caused by the respiratory signal components. This is confirmed both by theoretical analysis and simulation of the forced oscillatory measurement.
Discriminant analysis of graphic elements of the EEG. Application to the detection of episodes of diffuse spike-waves]	A database of EEG information was collected from EEG recordings performed in epileptic patients with diffuse spike-wave complex discharges. Normal activity, spike-waves, slow waves and artefacts were mixed up in these recordings. The analysis of EEGs stored in the database was performed, channel by channel, through a 2.56 s moving window. For each so defined EEG sequence, a set of 22 variables chosen for their discriminatory power was computed. A subset of 8 highly discriminating variables was selected by the means of a stepwise discriminant analysis. Each class of the learning set contained 40 up to 100 EEG sequences. A classifying algorithm that takes into account zones of uncertainty is proposed. It has been evaluated on a test set which was composed of 1981 EEG sequences issued from 15 different patients. The results have been checked by two neurologists. The agreement rate between each of them and the proposed algorithm was more than 92%; this result is comparable to the agreement rate between the two neurologists (94%). A contextual analysis algorithm, using bi-dimensional smoothing techniques, allowed to improve the agreement rates which exceeded 94%.
Indirect standardization of neonatal mortality for birth weight.	Recent advances in perinatal medicine, together with the proliferation of regionalized perinatal networks, have increased the need for monitoring of trends and variations in birth weight-specific perinatal mortality rates. Since the United states has no national system of linked birth and death records, the only available method for comparing weight-specific mortality among geographic areas or medical care facilities in through indirect standardization of mortality for birth weight. This paper investigates the characteristics of the Standardized Mortality Ratio (SMR) obtained by indirect standardization using 1974-77 neonatal mortality and birth weight data for 202 geographic areas across the United States. The results show that the SMR is not sensitive to the choice of standard rates even when the area's birth weight-specific mortality rates are not a constant multiple of standard rates. A method for estimating the standard error of the SMR without knowledge of the weight-specific rates is presented and shown to be nearly unbiased. There is also a substantial amount of variation among geographic areas in both neonatal mortality rates, SMRs, and birth weight distributions. Thus, despite certain limitations, the SMR provides a useful summary measure for monitoring trends and variations among geographic areas or medical care  facilities in birth outcome.
Maximum attainable discrimination and the utilization of radiologic examinations.	Discriminant Analysis and other related statistical techniques are frequently used to sort patients into those most likely and those least likely to benefit from a certain intervention. Considerable data analysis and computation are often required to arrive at the best-fitting mathematical model which translates discriminating variables or indicants into probability predictions regarding the presence or absence of disease or the likelihood of a favourable outcome. Attempts to judge how well discriminant analysis performs or to determine why it does not perform better are hampered by not knowing what is the greatest degree of discrimination theoretically possible in a data set. In this paper we describe a method of calculating the maximum discrimination attainable in a data set and show how it can be used (1) to decide whether further model building is worthwhile, and (2) if so, to judge the discriminatory performance of any such models. We apply this tool to two previously published studies of radiologic utilization; the results provide reassurance that, at least on the basis of the presenting indicants, the patients were being adequately selected for the studies in question.
Cluster analysis to determine headache types.	Cluster analysis was used to separate 726 headache patients into clusters of patients with similar symptoms. This was done to answer two questions: what "naturally occurring' groups of patients can be found? And how do these groups correspond to traditional headache types? When only two clusters were required, the best two clusters were tension and migraine-like. However, eight clusters could also be distinguished, and the migraine group then became very small. The clusters were tested for clinical interpretability by having 12 physicians name and prescribe treatment for the clusters. The suggested treatment was similar to what patients had actually received in about 2/3 of the cases but was rather different for the remainder. Further, the outcomes associated with different treatments appeared to vary by cluster. This suggests that the current method for classifying and treating headaches may not be optimal.
Blood lipids in young men followed 32 years.	The relationship of baseline characteristics to serum cholesterol at baseline (CHL47) when aged 16-25 (mean 20.5) yr and at 32-yr follow-up (CHL79) was assessed in 162 men. Mean CHL rose over the follow-up period. CHL47 predicted CHL79 (r = 0.61, p less than 0.001) but not CHL79-CHL47. The mean (+/- SD) weight change (DW) was 12.0 kg (+/- 26.0 kg). DW was not significantly related to CHL47, but was independently related to CHL79-CHL47 (4 = 0.30, p less than 0.001). Age, height, DW, any of 7 measures of baseline obesity and CHL47 predicted CHL79 with R2 of 0.40 and CHL79-CHL47 with R2 of 0.37. Thus, weight change but not baseline relative weight was a determinant of serum cholesterol change from youth to middle age. There was strong tracking of serum cholesterol over this period.
Corrected group prognostic curves and summary statistics.	A method is presented for correcting distribution function estimators for distortions in the joint distribution of covariates in the subsamples receiving different treatments. This form of standardization is useful for depicting multivariate analyses and predicting population behavior. Furthermore, it also proves useful for comparing two trials which differ in patient mix and for adjusting estimates for know imbalances in patient characteristics. Standardization though important, is not often used in clinical trials because of the complexities introduced by multiple covariates. The proposed method overcomes these difficulties in a wide class of analyses.
Morphological variation in Plagiorchis noblei Park 1936 (Trematoda: Plagiorchiidae) from Tyrannus tyrannus and T. verticalis (Aves: Tyrannidae).	Specimens of Plagiorchis noblei from Tyrannus tyrannus and T. verticalis, were analyzed for morphological differences using multivariate techniques. Hotelling's T2-test showed a highly significant difference (P less than 0.001) between the two parasite populations. A stepwise discriminant analysis selected pharynx and testis as the characters that best separated the two populations, and correctly classified 69% of the specimens as to their host species. Plagiorchis gonzalchavezi was determined to be a junior subjective synonym of P. noblei.
Quantitative studies of ovine haemonchosis. 3. The interpretation and diagnostic significance of the changes in serial egg counts of Haemonchus contortus in a sheep flock.	An examination of the level and distribution of egg counts of H. contortus within an extensively managed flock of Merino sheep in south-east Queensland was carried out on three occasions over a ten week period. During this time the geometric mean egg count increased from 527 to 1331 eggs per gram, and although 26.3% of the flock were responsible for this increase, clinical evidence of haemonchosis was not observed. Examination of the distribution of counts supported the hypothesis that counts followed a negative binomial distribution. The values obtained for "k" (the index of over-dispersion), ranged from 0.5 to 1.4. However, on the two latter examinations, counts showed a divergence from the expected pattern (P = 0.015; P = 0.014). Further examinations of flocks at higher mean levels of count are required to establish if the trend towards a more normal distribution were maintained. The evidence from the present study and from outbreaks previously reported, suggested that in extensively managed sheep, the level of variance remained high as the mean egg count increased. It therefore appeared likely that in outbreaks of acute haemonchosis under grazing conditions, only a small proportion of the flock may become seriously affected.
Nonparametric analysis of response curves.	Many experimental designs in the behavioral sciences and neurosciences yield for each subject a response curve defined by number of correlated measurements. The common parametric and nonparametric statistical tests assume independent measurements and cannot be used in this context. After reviewing contemporary approaches to this problem, procedures for the cases of two independent samples and two matched samples of response curves are proposed. Each curve is approximated by an orthogonal polynomial. In the case of two independent samples the polynomial coefficients are compared by a multivariate median test while in the case of matched samples a multivariate sign test is used. The methods are illustrated by real data sets.
Personality and mental health characteristics of Nigerian university students.	In this paper are reported some of the results of a 1976 study of 145 female and 725 male freshmen University of Ibadan students who were assessed with the Health Opinion Survey, Eysenck Personality Questionnaire and a 65-item general questionnaire. A major aim of the study was to obtain data on the social, personality and mental health characteristics of the students. Over 6 % of subjects assessed their current mental health to be "fair" or "poor" as opposed to "good" or "excellent". There was no significant association between self-assessed mental health (SMH) and either sex or faculty of enrolment, but SMH had a significant relationship with Neuroticism, self-assessed current physical health and having problems to discuss with a doctor. These findings, along with the results of factor analysis of the general questionnaire, are discussed and their clinical, methodological and other implications commented upon.
The medical literature. Let the reader beware.	Since two thirds of the studies appearing in the best medical journals contain unwarranted conclusions, it is important for the physician to be aware of pitfalls. Two common errors are committed; the first consists of confusing statistical significance with medical significance, and the second deals with drawing substantive conclusions from an accepted null hypothesis. In common parlance, significance pertains to importance and meaningfulness, whereas statistical significance specifies the probability that an observed effect could have been produced by chance variation. The null hypothesis is the hypothesis of no experimental effect or correlation. It can be accepted or rejected. The fact that a null hypothesis is accepted does not prove that it is true, ie, that there is no experimental effect or correlation.
Development of performance evaluation tests for environmental research (PETER): complex counting test.	This study is the first in a program to develop a battery of Performance Evaluation Tests for Environmental Research (PETER). Nineteen volunteer subjects were tested daily for 3 weeks on a complex task requiring the operator to keep simultaneous track of several things with changing states. Average daily performances are reported as well as reliabilities of three main types: 1) internal consistency of the test; 2) sensitivity--the ability to differentiate subjects, and 3) stability--consistency of measurement over repeated sessions. The results showed that, on this task, learning was accomplished quickly, and performance stayed level for 3 weeks. The cross-tidal reliability for this test was found relatively stable after 3 d of practice, with a decline of only r=.94 to r=.79 over 11 d. This task is further noted as having several characteristics which make it particularly suitable for use in environmental research. It is concluded that the complex counting test can be recommended for use in environmental and other time-course research.
High density lipoproteins during hypolipidemic therapy. A comparative study of four drugs.	The high density lipoprotein HDL) response of 14 hyperlipidemic subjects to four hypolipidemic agents was studied through serial measurement of HDL cholesterol and apolipoproteins A-I and A-II before and during 3 months each (separated by 2 months off drug) of clofibrate (2 g/day, n = 14), colestipol (20 g/day, n = 12), para-amino salicylic acid--ascorbate (PAS-C, 6--8 g/day, n = 14) taken in random sequence and oxandrolone (7.5 mg/day, n = 11) as the final drug. The maximal effect of each drug appeared by the first monthly evaluation, and A-1, A-II and HDL cholesterol levels returned to pretreatment levels by one month after discontinuation of each agent. With clofibrate, HDL cholesterol increased by 16 +/- 20% from baseline (mean +/- SD) (P less than 0.05), A-I by 11 +/- 13% (P less than 0.05) and A-II by 39 +/- 17% (P less than 0.01). During oxandrolone HDL cholesterol declined by 36 +/- 20% from baseline (P less than 0.01), A-I by 21 +/- 13% (P less than 0.01), and A-II by 16 +/- 11% (P less than 0.025). Neither PAS-C nor colestipol exerted major effects on HDL, or any of the variables although both were associated with a slight rise in the A-I/A-II ratio (11 +/- 15% and 12 +/- 12%, respectively).
Glomerular epithelial foot processes in normal man and rats. Distribution of true width and its intra- and inter-individual variation.	The width of individual glomerular epithelial foot processes appears very different on electron micrographs. A method for obtainining distributions of the true width of foot processes from that of their apparent width on electron micrographs has been developed based on geometric probability theory pertaining to a specific geometric model. Analyses of foot process width in humans and rats show a remarkable interindividual invariance implying rigid control and therefore great biological significance of foot process width or a derivative thereof. The very low inter-individual variation of the true width, shown in the present paper, makes it possible to demonstrate slight changes in rather small groups of patients or experimental animals.
Comparison of standardization techniques for manual colorimetric analyses.	The influence of both the mode of standardization and the type of standard on the precision of four manual colorimetric methods performed under optimal conditions variance is described. The terms variable calibration mode and constant calibration mode are proposed; these describe standardization by within-run standards and standardization by a predetermined calibration relationship between concentration and absorbance that remains constant over a fixed period of time. We show that calibration relationships and mode of standardization must be established for each and every individual method on objective evidence. Where within-run standards are used, they must be carefully selected for each method. The implications for method evaluation and quality control are discussed.
Performance characteristics of the Coulter Kem-O-Lab.	We evaluated the performance characteristics of the Coulter Kem-O-Lab for the measurements of calcium, inorganic phosphate, total protein, albumin, glucose and urea nitrogen in serum. The precision on replicates agreed with those claimed by the manufacturer. All methods showed acceptable total precision measured over a four-week period, except for urea nitrogen. There was significant correlation between the Kem-O-Lab and routine methods, but the slope was significantly different from unity for calcium, total protein and urea nitrogen indicating a bias in their determinations. While turbidity and hemoglobin significantly interfered with measurements in all methods, bilirubin interference was observed only for total protein and glucose. There were no interferences due to any of the nine drugs tested.
Comparison of plasma creatinine determined with the Greiner Selective Analyser GSA II and the glomerular filtration rate.	1. Reference values for the plasma creatinine were established using the alkaline picrate method with the Greiner Selective Analyzer GSA II in relation to the Cr 51-EDTA Clearance. Individuals with normal GFR between 93 to 159 ml/min/1.73 m2 had creatinine values in men (n = 65) from 53.7 to 119.5 mumol/l (0.61 to 1.35 mg/100 ml) and in women (n = 59) from 37.7 to 107 mumol/l (0.42 to 121 mg/100 ml). 2. The creatine determinations with the GSA II were compared to those on the Technicon Analyzer, the Beckman Creatinine Analyzer, the Gemsaec-Fast Analyzer and to the enzymatic creatinine method. A good correlation (r = 0.9780-0.984) was observed. 3. With the GSA II and the enzymatic method, bilirubin showed a minor interference which was more marked with the Beckman analyzer.
An assessment of Stat Tek: a reagent-strip method for glucose determination.	Stat Tek, a reagent--strip method for glucose determination, has been evaluated. Aqueous solution of glucose standard is not recommended. The linearity of serum glucose is between 630 to 3,450 mg/l. The within run precision is between 0.7% to 3.0%. The day-to-day precision is between 2.8% to 5.6%. The recovery of glucose added to serum is between 95 to 101%. The correlation of glucose by Stat-Tek and SMA 6/60 show small proportional and constant errors. Stat-Tek is simple and easy to use; however, proper quality control and training of the user are essential for the correct measurement of glucose.
Concept and implementation of a program for treatments and statistical or logical interrogations of a file: LOGIST.	LOGIST is a general program which can be used for the usual statistical interrogations and also for other basic operations such as a validity check, the transcoding and the listing of data essential to biomedicine and the human sciences. The objectives laid down for this program have enabled almost total transferability (using FORTRAN IV exclusively), simplicity in the interrogation language, clear presentation of results, reduction to a minimum of computer running time and working storage required and the facility for modification of program or addition of new sub-programs. All the possible statistical procedures have not been included yet but any such additions are quite simple. This program, despite its considerable size, can be satisfactorily used on a mini-computer. At present, it is installed on a Mitra 15 computer with a total memory capacity of 32 K words of 16 bits. Use with larger more powerful machines will increase its potential. Routine application to diverse problems (quality control of a file, transcoding, linking of data, etc....) is very satisfactory.
Reliability of radiologic diagnosis in colitis.	Eight-five patients with inflammatory large bowel disease were reviewed. The reliability of several diagnostic criteria was assessed. Using a single contrast barium technique, with strict attention to these criteria, 90% diagnostic accuracy in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's diseease of the colon was possible.
Diagnostic accuracy of the conventional 12-lead and the orthogonal Frank-lead electrocardiograms in detection of myocardial infarctions with classifiers using continuous and Bernoulli features.	The performance of ECG classifiers using Bernoulli variables was evaluated in comparison with the same classifiers using an identical set of ECG features measured in continuum. A Bernoulli variable is permitted to take only two states depending on whether its value is below or above a given threshold. A new method was used for discretization threshold optimization. The branch-and-bound algorithm, the sequential forward selection and backward rejection procedures were used for selecting the best subsets of Bernoulli and continuous features out of the primary set of features measured from the conventional 12-lead and the orthogonal Frank-lead ECG. A linear discriminant function was used to estimate the classification accuracy of Bernoulli and continuous features in a test library composed of ECGs of 237 Subjects with old myocardial infarcts and 299 subjects without infarction. The results indicate that while Bernoulli variables perform as well as or better than continuous variables over a wide range of sensitivity and specificity, continuous features appear to yield a higher diagnostic accuracy when a high level of specificity is required. In comparison with the diagnostic accuracy of the Minnesota Code's criteria for myocardial infarction, decision-theoretic classifiers using continuous features yielded an overall improvement in sensitivity from 14 to 20% at a fixed level of specificity. The information content of the conventional 12-lead ECG appeared as good as or better than that of the orthogonal Frank-lead ECG regarding differential diagnosis between myocardial infarction and non-infarction groups when identical statistical procedures were used for the design of the classifiers.
Estimation of distributions of time to appearance of tumor and time to death from tumor after appearance in mice fed 2-acetylaminofluorene.	A recently-developed statistical technique is employed to estimate parameters of the distributions of time to appearance of tumors and time to death from tumors after their appearance using both interval sacrifice and survival information. Estimates are obtained for three types of tumors at each of eight dose levels of 2-AAF, namely, 0, 30, 35, 60, 75, 100 and 150 ppm, which were administered to a total of 20880 female BALB/cStCrlfC3Hf/Nctr mice. For bladder neoplasms, the estimated median times to tumor ranged from 19.8 months at 150ppm to 1876.6 months at 0 ppm, while for liver neoplasms the extremes were 25.2 months at 150 ppm and 37.7 months at 0 ppm. Reticulum cell sarcomas occurred on the average at 24.7 months in all dose groups except 150 ppm, where the average time to appearance was 22.9 months. Although a pronounced dose-response for time-to-tumor was expressed for both bladder and liver neoplasms, the time required for death from either neoplasm following its appearance was not dose-related. The estimated median times to death after appearance of tumors were as follows: bladder neoplasm, 6.8 months; liver neoplasm, 5.7 months; reticulum cell sarcoma, 3.0 months.
Computer-analysis of volume distribution curves of erythrocytes (author's transl)]	The erythrocyte diameter curve of Price-Jones exhibits symmetrical, normal distribution. In contrast, the volume distribution curve of erythrocytes shows an asymmetrical course with some skewness to the right, which with different haematological diseases may vary. With respect to differential diagnosis as well as to therapy it is of importance to have available an objective means of comparing curves with different shapes. We therefore developed a mathematical determination of the volume distribution curves, which derived from the overlapping of two Gaussian normal distribution curves. Volume distribution curves of erythrocytes were determined with an electronic particle counter (Coulter counter) in 271 healthy and haematologically affected children as well as in 3 adults. With only one exception all volume distribution curves of erythrocytes could be fitted using computer analysis and the constants m1, m2, s1 and s2 were calculated. Characterisation of the curves with only these 4 constants allows a simple qualitative as well as quantitative comparison of different volume distribution curves.
Household health interviews and minority health: the NCHS perspective.	Efforts to identify information needs in the area of minority health have been paralleled by efforts within the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) both to improve the quantity and quality of minority health statistics and to increase the accessibility of these statistics to data users. This paper describes the context in which these objectives are pursued within NCHS. The paper also discusses problem areas which may confound the development and usefulness of minority health statistics derived from general-purpose, household interview surveys designed to produce descriptive estimates of morbidity and health services utilization at the national level. Developments within NCHS related to some of these problem areas are highlighted.
Criterion-based open book examinations in physiology.	Analysed data from ten consecutive physiology examinations for medical students at Aarhus University are presented. Each examination comprised one MCQ test and one short-answer test. For both written aids were allowed; both were dominated by items above the recall level. The mean test scores of both the MCQ and the short answer tests were slightly above their mean pass levels with coefficients of variation around seven. Large but similar pass rate fluctuations in both test were found, and about half of the non-passing students failed both tests. The MCQ minimum pass level, established by the Nedelsky principle, was more stable than the essay pass level. The Nedelsky values seem to compensate for a large part of the fluctuations in the difficulty level of various MCQ sets. Due to lack of comparable data it cannot be settled whether the pass rate fluctuations are excessive, nor whether standards fluctuate more than those at other institutes.
Lack of effect of electric field exposure on rats: a data re-evaluation.	Three recent investigations of the possible effects of to Hz electric fields on rats have yielded apparently contradictory results. While one group of investigators reported that chronic exposure to a 15 kV/m field caused several biological effects, the other two groups did not find these effects at 25 kV/m and 100 kV/m, respectively. A re-examination of the data from the 15 kV/m experiments indicates that the reported effects were probably artifacts due to improper statistical analysis and to a cage design which resulted in transient electric shocks (spark discharges) to the exposed rats. Hence, the results of all three investigations are consistent with a lack of biological effects from chronic exposure to 15--100 kV/m electric fields.
Rhinomanometric recording in children.	The present paper describes the development of a method for rhinomanometric assessment of nasal respiratory resistance in children, based on a commercially available equipment, the Mercury Nasal Resistance Meter, NR 1. The instrument was modified to improve performance, and a special technique was developed for individual lining of the nose mask. The posterior rhinomanometric tehnique was further modified by fitting the oral tubing with a collar, and by the use of a bio-feedback procedure based on oscilloscope display of the flow-pressure diagram. It could then be used in all subjects, a considerable improvement over previous methods. The error of the method was analysed in a sample of 17 children aged 8-12 examined at two occasions. There was no systematic error. For the posterior method the method error within a session was about 0.2 cm H2O/l/sec at a flow rate of 0.2 l/sec.
Initial aspects of the changes in diabetic proteinuria]	Proteinuria was analysed quantitatively and qualitatively in 156 diabetics and 63 matched controls. The study was limited to patients with a proteinuria of less than 100 ng/min in the recumbency. The urinary proteins were analysed using cellulose acetate electrophoresis, immunoelectrophoresis and sodium dodecylsulfate poly-acrylamide gel electrophoresis. Abnormal urinary protein patterns were more frequent in diabetics than in the controls (p less than 0.01). However, when the subjects were divided into 2 groups according to their age, the limit being arbitrarily chosen at 60 years, the differences were statistically not significant in the older group. By contrast, in the younger group, the proportion of perfectly normal patterns was significantly decreased in diabetics as compared to the controls (p less than 0.005). In our diabetic population, chosen on the basis of a quantitatively normal proteinuria, no clear relation could be found between the abnormalities of the urinary protein electrophoretic patterns and the patient's clinical data, with the exception of vascular and cardiac complications. Our results suggest that qualitative changes of urinary proteins might be the first signs of renal complications in diabetic patients and that diabetes might constitute an additional cause of aging for the kidneys.
Very low doses of radio-iodine for hyperthyroidism. Failure to prevent a high incidence of early hypothyroidism.	One hundred and fifty-one patients with hyperthyroidism were treated with varying doses of radio-iodine (131I), and the results were analysed 1 year later. Of the patients with Graves' disease who received the lowest 131I doses (mean 2,8 mCi) 39% had persistent thyrotoxicosis and 25% were hypothyroid 12 months after therapy. Moderate doses of 131I (mean 5,9 mCi) reduced the rate of persistent disease to 19% and increased the rate of hypothyroidism by only 4% (P less than 0,05). When 131I dosages were calculated according to thyroid weight (microCi/g), patients who received the lowest doses (mean 115 microCi/g) again had significant rates of both persistent hyperthyroidism (38%) and hypothyroidism (24%). These data indicate that very low doses of 131I in the treatment of Graves's disease may result in a high incidence of persistent disease, but do not necessarily result in a very low incidence of early hypothyroidism. Low-dose 131I regimens are unsuitable for treatment of thyrotoxicosis unless very good facilities for patient follow-up are available.
General purpose of research designs.	The purposes and criteria for formulating a design of research, conditions for judging causality, and use of research design as a control of variance are discussed. The purpose of a research design is to provide a plan of study that permits accurate assessment of cause and effect relationships between independent and dependent variables. The classic controlled experiment is an ideal example of good research design. Factors that jeopardize the evaluation of the effect of experimental treatment (internal validity) and the generalizations derived from it (external validity) are identified. Sources of variance can be controlled by eliminating a variable, randomization, matching, or including a variable as part of the design. A research project should be so designed that (1) it answers the questions being investigated, (2) extraneous factors are controlled, and (3) the degree of generalization that can be made is valid.
Risk of exogenous estrogen therapy and endometrial cancer.	A retrospective study was carried out on 431 patients with endometrial cancer and 431 control subjects matched as to age, race, and parity. They were seen at Duke University Medical Center from 1940 to 1975. The study was performed in order to evaluate the risk of exogenous estrogen therapy and the development of adenocarcinoma of the endometrium. The overall risk was 2.38, with certain subgroups demonstrating different degrees of risk. Increased risk was associated with estrogen therapy of longer than 5 years' duration in white patients. The risk also was confined to Stage I, grade 1 lesions and more superficial myometrial invasion. Five-year survival for patients who used estrogen replacement and had Stage I, grade 1 lesions was 94.7%. The risks associated with exogenous estrogens are real but should be considered in a risk/benefit context when prescribing for the needs of an individual patient.
The correlation of disease activity and antibody titers in pemphigus.	Twenty cases of pemphigus extracted from the literature and 19 patients from UCLA with pemphigus were studied in detail regarding the possible correlation of pemphigus titer and disease activity. A statistically significant relationship between titer and disease activity, as well as change in titer and change in disease activity, was found. However, in spite of this relationship, serial titers were not found to be consistent enough to be used reliably as a guide to therapy or prognosis in pemphigus.
Statistical inference and the design of clinical trials.	According to the likelihood principle of statistics, a decision to stop or otherwise alter a clinical trial can be made on the basis of accumulating information without losing the ability to draw inferences from the results of the trial. In particular, balanced, randomized designs are not necessary. The probability that a particular treatment is the best among those in the trial can be calculated after each patient response, and may suggest that the treatment should be used predominantly in the next stage of the trial. Doing so results in more effective treatment of the patients in the trial while sacrifacing some of the information on the other treatments. Not doing so results in equal information on the treatments but sacrifices effective treatment. There are many trials in which compromise is possible between these antagonistic consequences.
Evaluation of patients with advanced cancer using the Karnofsky performance status.	The Karnofsky Performance Status Scale (KPS) was designed to measure the level of patient activity and medical care requirements. It is a general measure of patient independence and has been widely used as a general assessment of patient with cancer. Although there is a long history of use of the KPS for judging cancer patients, its reliability and validity have been assumed without formal investigation. The interrater reliability of the KPS was investigated in two ways, both of which gave evidence of moderately high reliability. The patients evaluated in their home were usually assigned a lower KPS score compared with a similar evaluation at the same time done in the outpatient clinic. Costruct validity of the KPS was demonstrated by strong correlation with several variables relating to physical function. On-study KPS score accurately predicted early death, but high initial KPS scores did not necessarily predict long survival. Patient deterioration with subsequent death within a few months could be predicted to a limited extent by a rapidly dropping KPS. These results suggest that the KPS has considerable validity as a global indicator of the functional status of patients with cancer and might be helpful for following other patients with chronic disease.
The coefficient of analysis, a new figure of merit for laboratory performance.	A simple statistic has been developed to determine a figure of merit for overall laboratory performance. This simple statistic, the coefficient of analysis, relates for the first time both the imprecision and the inaccuracy of a laboratory analysis to a single value that clinical chemists will easily understand. In the derivation of the coefficient of analysis, we also define two secondary statistics: the coefficient of bias, which is mathematically similar to the CV and represents the inaccuracy of an analysis, and the coefficient of accuracy, which is mathematically represented as 100 minus the coefficient of bias and is a measure of the accuracy of the analysis.
Determination of ionized calcium in parotid saliva.	A new method for the determination of ionized calcium in parotid saliva utilizing an automatic ionized calcium analyzer (Orion Biomedical Model Space-Stat 20) was evaluated. The method showed good precision with a relative standard deviation of 2.9--3.8 per cent in the range 0.20--0.79 mmol . l-1 after 226 duplicate measurements. Mean recovery was 94.9% in the range of 0.6--1.8 mmol. l-1. Bovine mucin was found not to interfere with the calcium electrode. Differences in sodium concentration, ionic strength and pH between the standard solutions and samples caused systematic errors. These were corrected using experimentally derived formulas. The influence of pH on the concentration of ionized calcium was studied in 13 parotid saliva samples. A non-linear relationship ranging between 32 and 84% of the total calcium concentration was found.
Computerized O.R. log system has many uses.	A computerized hospital O.R. log and data system makes use of the more accurate and complete data for audits and supply, scheduling, and other planning decisions.
Sources of ambulatory care and utilization models.	For this study I gathered information on sources of ambulatory care and ambulatory care utilization, together with social, demographic, and health information. I applied a revision of Andersen's behavioral utilization model to all these data to try to explain patterns of ambulatory care utilization. Data are from a household survey of Rhode Island residents that was conducted in 1974. I have used multiple classification analysis (MCA), since the provider variable formed from the information on medical care sources is best conceptualized as being measured at a nominal level. It emphasizes both the number of different affiliations and the specialty and type of each affiliation. The MCA analysis with the provider set variable and the social, demographic, and need variables has a multiple R2 (adjusted) of 0.40. The most important explanatory variable is the number of conditions, a need variable; the next most important is the provider variable. This study demonstrates the value of variables that account for providers of care and ambulatory care patterns as well as measures of need and social and demographic variables in a complete model of utilization behavior.
Bacterial abundance on hands and its implications for clinical trials of surgical scrubs.	The numbers of bacteria on the hands of 157 subjects volunteering for a clinical trial of a surgical scrub preparation were evaluated statistically. Differences among the volunteers with respect to day-to-day variability in bacterial counts were the most important source of variation in these counts. Generally, more bacteria were found on the left hand than on the right. The experimental plan, proposed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, contained criteria for acceptability of subjects which were found to exclude at least as many suitable volunteers as they admitted. The plan was also found to require more testing on more volunteers than was necessary to establish the efficacy of the surgical scrub.
Effects of autogamy in Paramecium tetraurelia on catalase activity and on radiosensitivity to natural ionizing radiations.	Catalase activity of Paramecium tetraurelia decreased during autogamy and recovered to normal 5 days later. Autogamy also caused changes in the ciliate's sensitivity to natural ionizing radiations--the decrease in cell growth rate previously described in shielded cultures did not occur when autogamous cells were used. Maximum effect of shielding was observed in 11-day-old postautogamous cells. The role of the catalase in the mechanism of natural iradiation effect is discussed.
Statistical characteristics of impulse activity of spinal locomotor centers]	The statistical analysis of the neuronal impulse activity of spinal locomotor centres was performed at rest and during generation of efferent discharges in thalamic immobilized cats. The activation of the spinal locomotor generator was accompanied by shortening of interspike intervals in neuronal spike trains and reduction of their fluctuations. During this process the interspike interval histograms became more symmetrical and the quantity of neurons which had regular oscillations in autocorrelation histograms increased considerably. At rest neuronal spike trains were characterized by dependence of successive intervals. This dependence increased during generation of efferent discharges. Possible mechanisms of the reconstruction of time organization of the neuronal impulse activity of spinal locomotor centres during their activation are discussed.
Histomorphometrical determination of bone marrow cellularity in iliac crest biopsies.	The point-count principle is an exact method of bone marrow quantitation but fairly good correlation was found between quantitated and estimated values of the cellularity in iliac crest biopsies, although the latter values were significantly lower. No intraspecimen variation was found, but the cellularity in the individual biopsies varied considerably from field to field, indicating that quantitation and estimation on small samples obtained by aspiration may be misleading. The correlation between the values from undecalcified and decalcified sections was high, but decalcification of the biopsies resulted in an underestimation of the amount of haemopoietic tissue.
Surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm over 23 years.	The mortality for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in a surgical unit is reviewed over the 23-year period 1956-1978. Five hundred and eight patients were considered for operation. In the elective AAA surgery group there has been a progressive decline in mortality to a current level of 3%, and reasons for this are reviewed. Where patients present with ruptured AAA, however, the mortality has remained in excess of 50%.
Congenital jejuno-ileal atresia and stenosis.	Eighty-four patients with congenital jejuno-ileal atresias and stenoses admitted over a 20-year period (1959-1978) are reviewed. The overall survival rate of 88% is a reflection of the improvement in diagnosis and supportive care and refinements in technique. Our current ideas on this subject are expressed and a detailed account of the presentation, diagnosis and management is given.
Deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism - an assessment of the accuracy of clinical diagnosis.	One hundred patients presenting with suspected deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism are reported. The importance of ascending phlebography in the management of these patients is stressed. The clinical diagnosis of deep-vein thrombosis is shown to be inaccurate. Further experience with non-invasive diagnostic methods is essential.
Pharmacodynamic model describing the growth of a mammary carcinoma in the mouse under the influence of adriamycin treatment.	The chemotherapeutic effects of different doses of adriamycin in (C3H x 020)F1 mice bearing mammary carcinoma have been investigated and a model of the growth of neoplastic cells under the influence of treatment is described. An estimate of cell kill and of the fraction of cells surviving after treatment is given by the efficacy constant K, which is a function of the dose level of the drug. The therapeutic value of each treatment is, however, also related to the degree of toxicity which in our model is expressed by the probability of death for each dose level.
Comparison of complications between in-hospital patients and out patients for aesthetic surgical procedures: a ten-year study.	On the basis of the clinical evidence and the statistical analysis of the 10-year survey, this study would confirm our hypothesis that in the surgical procedures performed-rhytidectomy and augmentation mammaplasty-there is no significant difference in the rate of serious complications between the inpatient group and the outpatient group. It would seem appropriate that further studies should be undertaken to evaluate other procedures and other ;complications. If we are to embark further on the course of out patient aesthetic surgery, we must strive for greater statistical knowledge in the area of complications and risk factors to evaluate our results better, keeping in mind our ultimate goal of continually improving our art.
The relationship of dose to prognosis in squamous-cell carcinoma of the aerodigestive tract.	How much does radiation dose determine prognosis of patients requiring radiotherapy for squamous-cell carcinoma of the aerodigestive tract? Using a statistical test of the correlation of dose versus outcome, several results of radiation treatment reported in the literature were examined. The radiation dose received was found to be a poor predictor of which patients would be cured.
Statistical methods for the analysis of tumor multiplicity data.	The fit of tumor multiplicity data from 93 mouse skin, lung, and liver carcinogenicity experiments to Poisson, negative binomial, and normal distributions was studied. The data were fitted well by the negative binomial distribution. This distribution has two parameters, the mean tumor multiplicity and an exponent determined by the interanimal homogeneity of tumor response. The value of the latter parameter was related to animal strain and the target tissue studied in the carcinogenicity experiments. The null distribution of the two-sample likelihood ratio test based on the negative binomial with common exponent model for tumor multiplicity data was shown by simulation studies to be approximately chi 2 with 1 d.f. Simulation also indicated that the likelihood ratio test has sufficiently better performance when the negative binomial model is valid to make its use more attractive than the more commonly used Wilcoxon test or Student t test. Charts for estimating the number of animals per group that are required to detect specified differences in tumor multiplicities are provided for several commonly used assays.
Effect of outlying standard points on curve fitting in radioimmunoassay.	Outlying points often appear in standard curves for radioimmunoassay. We have examined the effect of outlying standard points on the ability of various automated data-processing routines, and of manual operators, to position a radioimmunoassay standard curve correctly. Manual operators were found to be highly subjective in their handling of a standard curve containing outlying points. Automated methods without outlier rejection capability produced standard curves that were significantly erroneous. In contrast, a data-processing method with automated outlier rejection capability successfully identified outliers, but occasionally rejected valid points--and consequently misplaced the standard curve. Visual identification of outliers is unsatisfactory. Automated identification can be more satisfactory, but some patterns of outliers make it less so. We conclude that any automated data-processing method should contain an outlier rejection facility, but its results should be treated with caution.
A clinical evaluation of various delta check methods.	To evaluate the performance of delta check techniques, we analyzed 707 unselected pairs of continuous-flow test results, using three different delta check methods. If any of the test results (plus the urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio and the anion gap) failed one of the checks, the reason for the failure was sought by examining subsequent test results, retesting specimens, and (or) reviewing te patient's chart. Each delta check failure was accordingly classified as a true or false positive. The percentage of positives we judged to be true positives ranged from 5 to 29%. Each of the three methods had test types with low and high percentages of true positives. We conclude that with the delta check methods one can detect errors otherwise overlooked, but at the cost of investigating many false positives, because, in the population we studied, disease processes or therapy often caused large changes in a series of test results for a patient.
Unexpected readmissions to the coronary-care unit during recovery from acute myocardial infarction.	Because it is difficult to predict the course in a patient recovering from acute myocardial infarction who is stable enough to leave the coronary-care unit (CCU), we studied such patients in order to identify those at risk of complications. Over two years of study, 485 of 536 consecutive patients admitted with myocardial infarction survived their first stay in the CCU. Complications serious enough to warrant readmission developed in 61 (13%). Readmissions occurred early: half were within 2.7 days of initial transfer from the unit. The subsequent course was severely complicated: 16 readmitted patients (26%) died in the hospital. Physicians were not able to identify clearly these high-risk patients during their first stay in the CCU. Several previously cited indicators of poor prognosis did not help identify those later readmitted, but recurrent ischemic pain that occurred for the first time after 24 hours in the CCU did. The absence of rales on admission, coupled with absence of recurrent chest pain, was indicative of a subgroup with a favorable short-term prognosis.
The high cost of low-frequency events: the anatomy and economics of surgical mishaps.	We conducted a one-year prospective survey to identify adverse outcomes due to error during care in the field of general surgery. We identified 36 such cases among 5612 surgical admissions to the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, but in 23 cases the initiating mishap had occurred in another hospital before transfer. In two thirds of the cases the mishap was due to an error of commission: an unnecessary, defective or inappropriate operative procedure. Twenty of these patients died in the hospital, and in 11 death was directly attributable to the error. Five of the 16 survivors left the hospital with serious physical impairment. A satisfactory outcome was achieved in only 11 cases (31%). The average hospital stay was 42 days, with the duration ranging from one to 325 days; the total cost for the 36 patients was $1,732,432. We suggest that all hospitals develop comprehensive methods to identify and prevent these costly and unnecessary events.
Child Abuse Registry in Georgia: three years of experience.	The number of reported cases of physical child abuse in Georgia from July 1975 to June 1978 increased. Of 4,292 cases reported, 57% were confirmed. School officials most often reported cases of suspected abuse; 69% were confirmed by social work investigation. Metropolitan black female children had the highest residence/race/sex-specific abuse rates. The highest abuse rate for boys was for the 0- to 3-year-old group, while for girls the highest abuse rates were for the 13- to 16-year-old group. Both natural parents were present in 39% of the confirmed cases, and a natural parent was the abuser in 62% of the cases. Of the natural mothers who were confirmed abusers, 53% had been pregnant as teen-agers. Thirty-eight children died after being abused, with the highest death-case ratio being 62 per 1,000 abused children for black girls aged 0 to 4 years.
Comparison of the effectiveness of two types of teaching aids in an occupational therapy research class.	Students who have mastered statistical calculation problems often experience difficulty in choosing an appropriate procedure to apply to a given research problem. To assist them in the process, two teaching aids were assigned at random to a group of 29 beginning research students. Their performance in selecting appropriate statistical procedures for analyzing data indicated that, while both aids were helpful, the algorithm format was more effective than the prose form.
Ontogeny of the barley plant as related to mutation expression and detection of pollen mutations.	Clustering of mutant pollen grains in a population of normal pollen due to premeiotic mutational events complicates translating mutation frequencies into rates. Embryo ontogeny in barley will be described and used to illustrate the formation of such mutant clusters. The nature of the statistics for mutation frequency will be described from a study of the reversion frequencies of various waxy mutants in barley. Computer analysis by a "jackknife" method of the reversion frequencies of a waxy mutant treated with the mutagen sodium azide showed a significantly higher reversion frequency than untreated material. Problems of the computer analysis suggest a better experimental design for pollen mutation experiments. Preliminary work on computer modeling for pollen development and mutation will be described.
The development of dental practice profiles.	This study examines the amount and sources of variation in dental practice profiles. Three years of insurance claims data on 227 general dental practices were used to generate practice-specific utilization rates for 16 treatment service categories. The results indicated considerable heterogeneity among and within practices in the distribution of service utilization rates such that most distributions could not be described by conventional parametric probability models. Basic standardization methods were used to examine sources of variation among practices. Of the patient and insurance characteristics investigated, only patient age had a major effect on utilization rates. However, there was considerable stability in utilization rates within practices over four consecutive six-month time intervals. The implications of these findings for profile-based utilization review and quality-assurance systems are discussed.
Errors in the diagnosis of schizophrenia in black and Indian patients.	The referral and/or final diagnoses of schizophrenia in 100 patients were examined. Discrepancies between these diagnoses were frequent and little evidence of a standardized approach to this diagnosis was revealed. Misinterpretation of cultural phenomena emerged as a further source of error. The critical nature of the interview and assessment situation, together with the need for standardized criteria and comprehensive understanding of cultural factors, is emphasized.
Sample sizes for group sequential cohort and case-control study designs.	This paper proposes the use of group sequential methods of calculate sample sizes for cohort and case-control study designs. The methods are based upon the theory of repeated significance tests, one of several sequential methods currently available. Group sequential methods permit repeated significance testing of relative risks obtained from periodically accumulated data while maintaining the required overall level of significance. Tables are presented for cohort and case-control studies in which the average sample size required for a group sequential design is compared to that of the conventionl fixed sample size plan for the usual constant relative risk situation. The tables show that group sequential designs are in general more efficient than fixed sample size plans for cohort and case-control studies. Computer simulations showed that group sequential methods can be employed when stratified data analyses are to be used and when the sample sizes of the two study groups are unequal.
A Mantel-Haenszel statistic for testing the association between a polychotomous exposure and a rare outcome.	The Mantel-Haenszel statistic has been designed to test the association between two dichotomous variables using information from several 2 x 2 tables. This statistic is extended here for incidence data on a rare outcome arising at two or more levels of an exposure variable. When there are only two levels of exposure the statistic is reduced to the one suggested earlier by Miettinen. The relationship between degree of urbanization and female laryngeal cancer is studied as an example.
A severity grading chart for the burned patient.	A graphical method for the quick computation of admission severity for the burned patient is described. The method is easily used by non-technical personnel and requires only the patient's age, an estimate of the percentage body surface area burned, and knowledge of the presence or absence of a perineal burn. The severity estimate is obtained by simply applying a straight-edge to the provided chart and reading the severity score from the scale crossed by the straight-edge. The severity score used is an estimate of the patient's mortality risk and is based on an extensively validated multiple logistic model which was developed using the combined experience of 11,200 patients at 12 major United States burn units. This severity score can be used with other severity and treatment factors to determine the level of care needed, and as an aid in triage decisions.
Selective criteria for differential diagnosis of infants with symptoms of congenital heart disease.	147 case records of infants referred to the Brompton Hospital in the first year of life with a provisional diagnosis of congenital heart disease were examined. Statistical analyses were performed to evaluate selective criteria for the allocation of these infants into a group with lung disease, or into 1 of 5 major haemodynamic groups--namely, acyanotic, complete transposition of the great arteries, pulmonary outflow tract obstruction, common mixing situations, or hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Arterial PO2 in high oxygen concentration, cardiothoracic ratio, and pulmonary vascular markings on the admission chest x-ray; respiratory rate; P-wave morphology, the electrical sign of the T-wave in lead V4R, and the presence or absence of Q-waves in leads V4R and v6 on the electrocardiogram were significant. A decision tree for the differential diagnosis of infants with suspected congenital heart disease into 5 haemodynamic groups and a group with lung disease is presented, and its predictive value is assessed.
Olfactory receptor response characteristics: a reevaluation.	The activity of single olfactory receptor cells previously reported was reexamined using Guttman-Lingoes multidimensional scaling, cluster analysis and factor analysis. These analyses were compared and contrasted with similar analyses using another olfactory unit data set and a color vision receptor data set. Questions were raised regarding the interpretation of the results of these analyses for any of the data sets employed.
Chronic pelvic pain in adolescent women. Diagnostic laparoscopy and ultrasonography.	To evaluate the correlation of preoperative pelvic examination and ultrasonography with the laparoscopic findings in 45 adolescent women with chronic pelvic pain.
Total plasma homocysteine and cardiovascular risk profile. The Hordaland Homocysteine Study.	To estimate the relations between established cardiovascular risk factors and total homocysteine (tHcy) in plasma.
Alternative approaches for estimating prevalence in epidemiologic surveys with two waves of respondents.	Estimates of prevalence in epidemiologic surveys are prone to bias due to selective response. Therefore, much effort is devoted to reduce the number of nonrespondents. For example, individuals who do not respond in the first round of recruitment in mail surveys are usually contacted a second (or even third or fourth) time yielding consecutive waves of responses. Yet this sequence of waves is often neglected in epidemiologic analyses in that prevalence is simply estimated as the proportion of trait-positive individuals among the total group of respondents. This paper investigates alternative estimates of prevalence that might be used in surveys with two waves of respondents. The estimates are based on different assumptions on the relation of response rates with the trait of interest. As this relation is likely to vary from survey to survey depending on the specific circumstances under which the recruitment of participants is conducted, none of the estimates is universally preferable. The performance of the different estimates is assessed in a variety of hypothetical and empirical examples, and strategies are discussed to make the best use of the different estimates in the analysis of epidemiologic studies.
Investigation of EEG non-linearity in dementia and Parkinson's disease.	Many recent studies based on the surrogate data method failed to identify significant non-linearity in the EEG. In this study we examine whether the use of a different embedding method (spatial instead of time delay), and calculation of Kolmogorov entropy (K2) and the largest Lyapunov exponent (L1) in addition to the correlation dimension (D2), can distinguish the EEG form linearly filtered noise. We have calculated D2, L1 and K2 of original EEG epochs and surrogate (phase randomized) data in 9 control subjects, 9 demented patients and 13 Parkinson patients. The correlation dimension D2 and the largest Lyapunov exponent L1 could distinguish between the EEG tracings and the surrogate data. Demented patients had significantly lower D2 and L1 compared to controls. L1 was higher in Parkinson patients than in demented patients. Contrary to other studies that have used the Theiler surrogate data method, we find evidence for non-linearity in normal and abnormal EEG during the awake/eyes closed state. Apparently it is the spatial structure in the EEG that exhibits much of the non-linear structure. Furthermore, non-linear EEG measures show more or less specific patterns of dysfunction in dementia and Parkinson's disease.
Variability and replicability of the mismatch negativity.	The interindividual variation and test-retest stability of the mismatch negativity (MMN) and N1 components of the event-related potential (ERP) were investigated by presenting standard (85%) and deviant tones (15%) to 10 young subjects in 2 sessions separated by 1 month. Deviant tones in different blocks were either frequency or duration changes with interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 0.5 and 1.5 sec. The results showed a fairly good test-retest stability of the MMN amplitude for both types of changes with each ISI at the group level. The amplitude of the duration MMN showed significant individual test-retest stability. The N1 amplitude showed high stability at both the group and individual levels. Both the MMN and N1 showed considerable interindividual variation. The results suggest that MMN and N1 can be used in follow-up studies not only at the group level but possibly at the individual level also.
Signal detection in averaged evoked potentials: Monte Carlo comparison of the sensitivity of different methods.	Many clinical and research applications rely on detecting evoked potential (EP) signal or EP differences between conditions. Statistical methods for objective signal detection should be sensitive to the presence of signal, but must provide the user strict control on tolerated false alarm rate. The respective sensitivities of 6 signal detection methods were compared through several Monte Carlo simulations involving 2 autocorrelation structures, 5% and 1% significance levels, 8, 10 or 12 replications per study, and increasing signal to noise ratio. The signal detection methods compared were: (1) the Record Orthogonality Test by Permutations (ROT-p), a variant of the Residual Orthogonality Test (Achim et al., 1988), that provides an unbiased estimate of the energy of the signal present in the averaged data, (2) the Tsum2 permutation test of Karniski et al. (1994), (3) a Principal Component Analysis method (PC1) consisting of a t test on the weights of the first principal component, (4) multiple t tests on amplitudes with empirical adjustment for global false alarm rate, and (5-6) the test of Guthrie and Buchwald (1991) on length of consecutive t tests significant at P < 0.05 or 0.01 per-test. The first 3 methods did not exceed their nominal false alarm rate and clearly outperformed the last 3, with the ROT-p method being significantly more sensitive than all others under almost all conditions.
Discriminant classification of motor unit potentials (MUPs) successfully separates neurogenic and myopathic conditions. A comparison of multi- and univariate diagnostical algorithms for MUP analysis.	Multivariate statistical methods may be more appropriate for the multidimensional material of quantitative motor unit potential (MUP) analysis than the multiple univariate tests of the conventional Buchthal analysis. Buchthal analysis was slightly modified before it was used as the gold standard for new multivariate diagnostical algorithms, based on principal component analysis and on MUP discriminant classification: muscle means of continuous variables were related to tolerance limits after adequate transformation. Chi-square tests were used for dichotomized variables, e.g., polyphasia. Sensitivity and specificity of the uni- and multivariate algorithms were compared for 539 muscles from patients with motor neuron diseases, neuropathies and myopathies and for 91 biceps brachii, rectus femoris and tibialis anterior control muscles. False positive results accumulated less than expected by repeat univariate tests for single MUP parameters, due to high correlation. Combination of single parameters to factor scores did not improve specificity. One advantage of factor analysis was that factor matrix and factor scores matched those of previous studies in spite of different input parameters, which may facilitate multicenter comparisons. Discriminant classification successfully separated neurogenic and myopathic conditions, even in myositic muscles and motor neuron diseases, where myopathic and neuropathic MUPs frequently intermingle. Discriminant classification may support expert decisions and add weight to EMG differential diagnosis.
A prospective 15-year follow up of 154 consecutive patients with trigeminal neuralgia treated by percutaneous stereotactic radiofrequency thermal rhizotomy.	There is a lack of prospective studies for the long-term results of percutaneous stereotactic radiofrequency rhizotomy (PSR) in the treatment of patients with trigeminal neuralgia. The authors present results in 154 consecutive patients with trigeminal neuralgia treated by PSR and prospectively followed for 15 years. Ninety-nine percent of the patients obtained initial pain relief after one PSR. Dysesthesia occurred in 31 patients (23%): in 7% with mild initial hypalgesia; in 15% with dense hypalgesia; and in 36% with analgesia. Dysesthesia was mild and did not require treatment in most patients. The corneal reflex was absent or depressed in 29 patients, and keratitis developed in three patients. In 19 of 22 patients with trigeminal motor weakness, the paresis resolved within 1 year. Of 33 patients who had pain recurrence, 10 patients had pain that was mild or controlled with medications, and 23 patients required additional surgical treatment. The authors estimated using Kaplan-Meier analysis that the 14-year recurrence rate was 25% in the total group: 60% in patients with mild hypalgesia, 25% in those with dense hypalgesia, and 20% in those with analgesia. Timing of pain recurrence varied according to the degree of sensory loss. All pain recurrences in patients with mild hypalgesia occurred within 4 years after surgery; 10% more of the patients with dense hypalgesia had pain recurrences within the first 10 years compared with patients with analgesia. The median pain-free survival rate was 32 months for patients with mild hypalgesia and more than 15 years for patients with either analgesia or dense hypalgesia. Of the 100 patients followed for 15 years after one or two PSR procedures, 95 patients (95%) rated the procedure excellent (77 patients) or good (18 patients). The authors conclude that PSR is an effective, safe treatment for trigeminal neuralgia. Dense hypalgesia in the painful trigger zone, rather than analgesia, should be the target lesion.
Clinical evaluation of virus safety and inhibitor incidence: statistical considerations.	The basic statistical issue in pharmacovigilance is to claim, with reasonable certainty, that the incidence of an event of interest in a population of subjects is less than a certain value. How many subjects and events must be observed before such a claim can be made? A first situation of practical importance is when a product has been on the market for some period of time, and the safety of this product regarding some outcome of interest is questioned (for instance, the viral safety of blood products). Having observed a few occurrences of the event of interest, how confident can we be that the product is responsible for an elevation of the incidence of this event compared with the baseline incidence in a reference population? This issue will increasingly need to be addressed prospectively: how many subjects need to be treated and how many events observed, to be reasonably certain that a product is safe? Multi-stage designs are appropriate to address this question, yet they do not seem popular in pharmacovigilance. Such approaches could complement the standard recommendations to assess the safety of blood products, which are adequate as a first screen against major safety problems, but wholly inadequate for the long-term surveillance of subjects at risk of rare events. It will be argued that, from a regulatory perspective, the implementation of prospective protocols for pharmacovigilance, using appropriate statistical tools, would permit a tight control of the safety of new products, while making these products available as early as possible to the patients who need them.
Chronic pain in the spinal cord injured: statistical approach and pharmacological treatment.	We include in this article the results of a postal inquiry into chronic pain in SCI patients in Valencia (Spain), and our experience with their management. A mailed questionnaire including lesion and chronic pain data was sent to all of the 380 SCI patients who live in the region of Valencia. We received 202 answers, with 145 questionnaires being accurately answered and these were analysed for this study. The results show that chronic pain (that is, lasting more than 6 months) is very common (65.5%). The most frequent type was deafferentation pain (phantom pain), described as burning or a painful numbness. Since 1988 we have been treating a sample of 33 patients suffering from resistant pain according to the following therapies: 1 amitriptyline + clonazepam+NSAID (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs); 2 amitriptyline + clonazepam + 5-OH-tryptophane + TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation); 3 amitriptyline + clonazepam + SCS (spinal cord stimulation); 4 morphine, by continuous intrathecal infusion. After almost 4 years using these therapies we can affirm that the results regarding analgesia reached 80% in all cases, and that morphine used by intrathecal route is very safe and useful in selected patients.
Age and familiarity in memory scanning.	Sixty-five healthy males (31 to 75 years old) memorized lists of six letters (familiar or unfamiliar organization). Letters were then presented singly, and subjects responded yes or no according to whether a given letter was in the memorized set. Subjects of all ages took longer to respond in the case of the unfamiliar list. This was disproportionately true for the oldest subjects, consistent with the idea that the age-related differences in the unfamiliar condition could not be wholly accounted for by psychomotor factors. The distributions of response latencies in the oldest groups had greater variance and skew.
Distribution of HLA antigens among the population of Finistère (France) (author's transl)]	We have studied by using HLA system, 200 people, without filiation but having the same geographic origine (Finistère). The results have been compared with those measured for Parisian and Basque population. A significantly decrease of antigen A29, B18 and BW16 frequency have been observed in the population from Finistere. But, antigen B8 and B27 seems to be more frequent than in population from Paris. A linkage desequilibrium is described for A1-B8 and A3-B7 haplotypes as in population from Paris, but the desequilibrium for A11-B5 seens to be characteristic of population from Finistere.
A consideration of some methods by which the cost of potency assays for diphtheria and tetanus vaccines might be reduced.	Although recommended by WHO the high cost of parallel line quantal response assays for diphtheria and tetanus vaccines has retarded the introduction of comparative assays for these vaccines in developed countries and for the same reason is likely to discourage the introduction of adequate control standards in developing countries. These costs are mainly due to the large numbers of animals needed to obtain adequate precision when responses are assessed simply in terms of death or survival. The use of intradermal challenge scores for diphtheria and of semiquantal scores based on the onset of symptoms for tetanus together with the prospects for use of the same animals for both assays are discussed. Data are presented to show that the adoption of such methods would increase the information available from each animal and so reduce the number of animals required for the satisfactory standardization of diphtheria and tetanus vaccines.
Characterization and measurement of CD34-expressing hematopoietic cells.	Because of availability of anti-CD34 monoclonal antibodies, multiparameter flow cytometry has become the tool of choice for determination of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. This report describes general techniques for quantitation and characterization of CD34-expressing cells by flow cytometry.
Correlation of beta-camera imaging and immunohistochemistry in radioimmunotherapy using 90Y-labeled monoclonal antibodies in ovarian cancer animal models.	Tumor stroma contains much fibrin and monoclonal antifibrin antibody targeting is possible in tumors. In this study, nude mouse human ovarian carcinoma xenograft specimens were investigated after treatment with 90Y-labeled monoclonal antifibrin antibody Fab fragment or with 90Y-labeled OC125-monoclonal antibody F(ab')2 fragments. The mice received the radioimmunotherapy activity either intratumorally, intraperitoneally, or intravenously. Beta-camera imaging (BCI) is a novel device for studying activity distribution in tissue specimens and, together with immunohistochemistry (IHC) with OC125, antifibrin, anticarcinoembryonic antigen, anti-cytokeratin, and anti-placental alkaline phosphatase antibodies, was used for correlation of activity distribution of tissue specimens. These results were in concordance: Antigen distribution measured with IHC and radioactivity distribution were similar with the same antibodies, antifibrin, and OC125: However, these antigens demonstrated rather different distribution. Tissue studies revealed that activity was concentrated also in the necrotic tumor tissue, indicating that cell death was also caused by radiation. Differences in the tumor cell morphology were observed using different routes of administration. With BCI, it is possible to quantitate activities in frozen sections (microdosimetry), and these results were in concordance with absolute activities as measured by tissue sampling and well-counting. Three-dimensional reconstruction of tissue slices combined with radioactivity distribution measured with BCI allows estimation of total absorbed radiation dose in tumor after an appropriate dose planning.
Immunoanalysis of free alpha-subunits of glycoprotein hormones in human blood serum and its relationship with pituitary glycoprotein hormones]	A radioimmunoassay test system has been designed for measurements of free alpha-subunit (AS) of glycoprotein hormones in human blood serum with a sensitivity of 0.15 ng/ml. This test system revealed the absence of a direct correlation between the levels of free AS and levels of glycoprotein hormones in the blood sera of women with various endocrine profile, this being indicative of the specificity of this test system, on the one hand, and, on the other, confirming the possibility of independent secretion by the pituitary of free AS into the blood. Basal blood serum level of free AS in normal subjects is low: 0.9 ng/ml in women aged 17 to 30. The level of free AS secretion in the blood of many patients with nonfunctioning tumors of the pituitary was found increased, this demonstrating the diagnostic significance of measuring free AS as a marker of such tumors.
Skin cancer epidemiology: research needs.	The basis data currently being used to estimate and evaluate the dose-response relationship of UV-B and skin cancer are from a 6-month survey for four areas that participated in the TNCS, 1971-1972. Although most investigators from various fields of interest outside of cancer research, i.e. aviation, environmental ecology, physics, chemistry, and photobiology, etc., may admit an association between nonmelanoma skin cancer and UV-B exists, they point out that 1) the epidemiologic data currently available are too sparse and lack certain detail, such as exposure patterns and skin types, and 2) more data of this type are needed over a broad geographical range to allow for more precise measurements of the effects of stratospheric ozone depletion. They argue that the present relationships could change drastically with the addition even of a few more points (geographical locations) and that location-specific and demographic factors should be evaluated. Therefore, these data need to be updated and expanded to include more locations over a longer study period. The National Cancer Institute and the Environmental Protection Agency undertook a special skin cancer study from June 1, 1977 to May 31, 1978. The objectives of this study were: 1) to determine the incidence of nonmelanoma skin cancer (basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas) in various population groups within the United States, and 2) to ascertain and measure epidemiologic factors that may contribute toward the excess risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer in specific population groups.
Ecological study of Pyroglyphides mites in house dust in the Grenoble area. A qualitative approach and incidence of various parameters: seasons, altitude, temperature and relative dampness in their multiplication]	This study concerns the analysis of 70 samples of dust mites taken periodically from 13 sample areas or mattresses at different altitudes. It shows the presence of Pyroglyphid mites in all the mattresses studied. Four species were found: Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, Dermatophagoides farinae, Euroglyphus maynei and Dermatophagoides evansi. From a quantitative point of view, the statistical analysis of the results obtained allows the following conclusions to be drawn: -- All the Pyroglyphids (adults and young) undergo seasonal fluctuations at low, middle and high altitude. In the plains and at middle altitude these mites have a seasonal maximum and minimum. At high altitude only the seasonal maximum can be determined. -- The number of Pyroglyphids found is much higher in the plaine than at middle altitude and at middle altitude than at high altitude. The influence of altitude can be demonstrated with certitude. -- The conditions of temperature and relative dampness most favourable to the multiplication of mites are found in the plaine. At middle and high altitude these conditions are only met in summer. In flat country the statistical analysis allows us to show the existance of a correlation between the rate of dampness and the number of Pyroglyphids, and more specially, between the dampness rate and Dermatophagoides farinae, a predominant species at this sampling area. At middle and high altitude such a correlation cannot be shown clearly. At the three altitudes considered, no correlation can be established between the temperature and the number of Pyroglyphid mites found.
Permanent cardiac pacing in Italy to-day (author's transl)]	The current status of cardiac pacing in Italy is outlined by the following figures: 121 hospitals implant over 10,000 pacemakers each year. Of this number 69% are new implants which raises the incidence of new treated cases to 111 per million population, with the highest peach (197) in Tuscany. This figure was only 61 in 1973. At elsewhere, the dominant age group is the 7th decade; the prime indication for pacing is the symptomatic patient with a-v block (62% of all cases), the next most common one being chronic fascicular block (11%) and sick sinus syndrome (10%). The transvenous route is utilized in 98.3% of cases. The pacemaker of choice is the R-inhibited units; fixed rate units are used in only 4% of cases and units with conventional mercury battery cells in  66%, in favour of pacers with longer energy sources (e.g. lithium). Fifteen companies are supplying pacemakers in Italy and four of them are local manufacturers. An estimate 18,000 patients are being paced throughout the country to-day. Their density is highest in the region Friuli-Venezia Giulia (948 per million population). Follow-up of patients as a whole is not satisfactory being adequate only in about 50% of hospitals; telephone monitoring is available but in a few locations. The average cost of permanent pacing in Italy is the equivalent of 2.50 U.S. dollars per day.
Permanent endocardial pacing. Experience on 1678 patients. (De Gasperis Cardiology Center--Ente Ospedaliero Niguarda--Milano) (author's transl)]	The Authors report on eleven years and six months experience with permanent endocardial pacing in the treatment of various conduction disturbances. This experience relates to 1678 patients, 3617 pacers were used. The age of the patients ranges from 60 to 80 (70%), 30% referring to the remaining decades, minimum 14--maximum 94. Fixed rate pacers were used in 31% of cases, QRS synchronous or QRS inhibited pacers were used in 69%. Average life of the pacers varies from 25 to 29 months; the average life of fixed rate pacer is higher. Complications and causes of failures, among which electrode dislodgement is the most relevant and frequent, as well as the relative therapeutical treatments, are described. Early mortality is about 1% and late mortality 20%; the survival rate calculated altogether after 11 years and 6 months treatment with implantable pervenous pacing is about 16%.
The experience with permanent cardiac pacing at the Surgical Clinic of the University of Padua Medical School (author's transl)]	A computer analysis is reported of the most significant data concerning 1624 pacemaker implantations and 1386 battery replacements. The patients were treated by endocardial stimulation with transvenous electrodes in 91% of the cases; the remainder: 9% received epicardial electrodes. The mode of stimulation was 2189 times "demand", 138 "synchronized" and 683 "asyncronous". Pacers of 13 different brands were used. At the beginning of our experience, the catheter was introduced through the superficial or profunda giugular vein: since 1969 the cephalic vein has been preferred. Epicardial electrodes were implanted via a left thoracotomy but in the most recent years the extrapleural phrenico-pericardial approach has been adopted. In a number of cases external pacemakers have been employed for permanent stimulation. The most common post-operative complications were infection (3.9%), skin erosion (2.2%), catheter rupture (3.5%), electrode dislodgement (1.7%). Such complications are becoming less frequent since 1969, due to technical improvements.
The experience in cardiac pacing at the Cardiology Department of St. Camillo Hospital (Rome) (author's transl)]	The experience of the Cardiac Electrostimulation Center of S. Camillo Hospital in Rome on 1503 patients treated with permanent pacemakers for an 11 year period is referred. The Authors analyze the increase of the activity of the Center during these years and some events that caused it. 94.5% of the patients were more than 50 years old; the dominant pathology has been ischemic and idiopathic cardiopathy, which together include 94.7% of the totality. The indication to the implant has been A-V block in 70% of the patients; intraventricular block in 20%; sick sinus syndrome in 10%. In the last years the prophylactic indication has increased (from 0.4% to 4.4%). 2459 pacemakers have been used, of which 79.5% was QRS-inhibit. The mercury prosthesis have been progressively substituted with the lithium ones. 1642 catheters (implant and reimplant) have been used; principally endocardic (95%) and monopolar (85%). The substitution of the catheter has been necessary in 9% of the totality; in 2.6% of the endocardic and in 15.9% of the epimyocardic. Among 50 electrodes, after a period of observation of about 7.7 years, 36 are still in function. The percentage of the complications has been 17.1%; the most important complications have been: dislocation (6%), microdislocation (1.5%), late high threshold (2.1%), failure of catheter (1.2%), generator malfunction (2.3%). The total mortality has been 15.4%; 0.2% caused by deficit of the implant; 2% sudden deaths and 13.2% not depending from the implant; 243 patients (16%) are not to be found. The frequency of out-patients controls has decreased in the last 2 years (from 3.8 controls per years to 1.8).
Cardiac pacing in Sicily (author's transl)]	We report the experience in Sicily, where more than 3000 pacemakers have been implanted in different Schools of Medicine and Hospitals (Agrigento, Catania, Messina, Palermo and Ragusa). Our personal experience (Cardiology Division--Catania) is 846 cases up to June 1977. We would like to stress that today the sick sinus syndrome and other pathological conditions not due to complete AV block are of increasing incidence as an indication to definitive electrostimulation. In addition, the average age of patients is getting lower, and more PM-demand and lithium powered PM are implanted. The most used implant technique has been through the cephalic vein. Today it is possible to have more distant controls mainly because of the oscilloscopic evaluation technique. Mortality during surgery and immediately post-surgery is very low, and the bioelectric complications are very rare. In conclusion, we would suggest: 1) a strict cooperation with a Cardio-surgery Division; 2) the utilization of more sophisticated techniques to make controls less frequent and more rapid and easy (e.g. telephone controls); 3) a more modern and correct law on this issue and a better information of the public, involving educational, social and medical structures so that the patient with a pacemaker can live in his family with a recovery for work and society.
A regional experience with permanent cardiac pacing: in Friuli-Venezia Giulia the highest density of pacemaker patients in Italy, to-day (author's transl)]	In Friuli-Venezia Giulia, a region of 1,243,463 inhabitants, a total of 1,629 first implants have been carried out since the first patient was treated with permanent cardiac pacing (P.C.P.) early in 1692. This patient is still alive. In the last four years, the annual rate of implants was 185 per million inhabitants. The average age of patients is 72.9. The most frequent indication for pacing is the a-v block (64.5%), followed by the fascicular blocks (10.8%) and the sick sinus syndrome. No asinchronous fixed rate generators are implanted at present; lithium batteries are the power source of choice to-day. There have been 1,120 replacements in the Region, mainly due to battery depletion (89.9% of cases). A total of 442 patient deaths have occurred in 10 years due to neoplasms (17%), cerebrovascular accidents (15.6%), respiratory infections (15%), myocardial infarction (8%) and other causes. In 8.8% of cases the death was sudden. There are 1,179 patients in follow-up in the Region (948 per million inhabitants). A computer system, described elsewhere in these proceedings, allows a close follow-up of these patients along with the evaluation of long term pacing on a reliable statistical basis.
The Italian experience in permanent pacing. A casuistry for more of 10 years: a policentric study (author's transl)]	According to a recent national survey, 387 patients were treated by permanent pacing in 10 Italian centers, between 1961 and 1966. Of these patients 205 have died; 131 (77 males and 54 females) are still alive and no informations could be obtained for the remaining 51 (13%). The overall survival of patients treated during this period of time is therefore not less than 34% which is comparable to that of general population of the same age group. The 131 patients still alive have totaled 1,486 years of pacing and have used up to 784 pacers. Comparing the incidence of the most common causes for replacement during the periods 1961-66 and 1973-77, electrode failures dropped from 21 to 0.9%; circuitry malfunctions occurred in 10.5 and 7.8%; battery depletion rose from 36.8 to 69% of the cases. According to their clinical conditions, the 131 patients on long-term follow-up can be grouped as follows: 62% are in class 1 or 2 of NYHA; 26.7% are in class 3, and 3.8% in class 4. Moreover, 53.4% of patients are living an active life, having some sort of occupation and 29% are holding a driving license.
On 1800 patients with implanted definitive pacemaker (author's transl)]	The Authors outline their clinical experience with 1800 patients, 1190 of which underwent definitive pacemaker implantation and 610 replacement of the impulse generator. They examine some parametres in detail, reporting on the results obtained.
Surgical complications of pacemaker implantation (author's transl)]	During the period 1966-1977, 705 pacemaker implantations with transvenous endocardial electrode and 369 substitutions of generators were carried out, besides 275 operations treating some complications after implantation were required. The most frequent complications were: endocardial electrode dislocation (9.4%), lesion caused by decubitus (7.5%) and infection of subcutaneous pocket (5%), decubitus lesion and infection of the skin caused by the electrode (1.7%), electrode and generator breaking (1.3%), right ventricle perforation caused by the electrode (0.37%). Surgical mortality-rate was 0.18%.
A computer program for the generalized chi-square analysis of competing risks grouped survival data (CRISCAT).	CRISCAT is a computer program for the analysis of grouped survival data with competing risks via weighted least squares methods. Competing risks adjustments are obtained from general matrix operations using many of the strategies employed in a previously developed program (GENCAT) for multivariate categorical data. CRISCAT computes survival rates at several time points for multiple causes of failure, where each rate is adjusted for other causes in the sense that failure due to thes other causes has been eliminated as a risk. The program can generate functions of the adjusted survival rates, to which asymptotic regression models may be fit. CRISCAT yields test statistics for hypotheses involving either these functions or estimated model parameters. Thus, this computational algorithm links competing risks theory to linear models methods for contingency table analysis and provides a unified approach to estimation and hypothesis testing of functions involving competing risks adjusted rates.
On the stationarity and normality of the electroencephalographic data during sleep stages.	In this paper, we show techniques to examine the stationarity and the normality of time series as well as results obtained by applying these techniques to EEG data during sleep stages. Many statistical analyses of the EEG data are based on the assumption that the EEG data are stationary and normally distributed. However, the problem is to know the length of data which is most appropriate for the statistical analysis. From the analysis, it is found that a decreased length of data implies an increased degree of stationarity and normality in each stage of sleep. However, for the practical stationary analysis of EEG data, it is shown that it is appropriate to take about 5 s during sleep state. Stationarity is fulfilled to a relatively large extent in REM but more seldom in stage 2. In the case of short data, asymmetric distribution occupies the large parts of non-normal distribution. As the length of data increases the proportion which is symmetric but sharper or flatter than the normal distribution increases.
Noise suppression in photoreceptors and its relevance to incremental intensity thresholds.	Quantal noise is the main limiting factor of visual contrast sensitivity only over an intermediate range of light intensities. At low and high intensities receptor and neural noise determine the bound on sensitivity. In this paper we analyze the effect of receptor nonlinearity on the statistics of visual signals and show its role in the suppression of quantal and receptor noise at high light intensities. This provides adequate physical interpretation of physiological data. Extending this analysis to the behavior of the whole visual system, we arrive at the conclusion that such noise suppression provides a unified explanation of psychophysical incremental threshold data over the whole visual range.
The use of statistical methods in 2 medical journals with high impact factor]	This paper intends to contribute to the discussion about the use of statistical techniques within the current biomedical and health investigation. We hypothesized that statistical methods necessary to go ahead with most high level research were rather small. Two high impact factor journals about epidemiology and health sciences were selected: New England Journal of Medicine and American Journal of Epidemiology. Both represent what we have called "successful research". The 2386 original and special articles which were published along the 1986-1990 period were carefully examined. Each statistical technique was classified into one of four complexity levels. Each paper was eventually classified on the same grounds. The frequency of each method was used within each level was then accounted. Statistical cited literature was also registered for each article. Finally, a descriptive examination of this information was developed. The results show that techniques widely dominant are those classified as from lower levels. Only the 12% for New England Journal of Medicine, and 17% for American Journal of Epidemiology belong to the most complex type. It was shown that current biomedical research dismisses, to a large extent both, complex statistical techniques and specialized statistical literature. In general, it limits itself to resources no more ahead than elementary multivariate procedures. It was concluded that simpler statistical methods are useful enough not only to understand what is currently published in journals like the ones studied but to produce high level results as well.
A new way of looking at environmental variables that may affect the age at menopause.	Environmental variables that might affect the age at menopause were analysed by means of the segmentation method AID. Marital status, occupation, smoking habits, age at last pregnancy and height were shown to be significant discriminating variables. The material and design of the study and the method of analysis are given and its results are discussed. A proposal is made concerning the nature of a 'secular trend'.
Hospitalized psychiatric population in the Mexican Institute of the Social Security, 1971-1976]	This paper emphasizes the importance of having an objective registration system for clinical cases in a psychiatric hospital. For this purpose, special sheets were designed to register all cases comparing the years 1971 and 1976. During these years, 1 202 and 1 835 cases were obtained. Data included: age, sex, marital status, schooling, occupation, diagnosis, psychiatric family history and therapy. The results for those years are shown.
The outcome of pregnancy in previously infertile women.	212 consecutive pregnancies are reviewed in previously infertile women. 96 had conceived following treatment, 21 in a "rest cycle" after treatment, 60 during investigations and 35 before investigations were started. There were 25 miscarriages (11.8%), 13 following hormone treatment. There were 7 multiple pregnancies, 2 sets of triplets and 5 sets of twins. The multiple pregnancy rate with Clomiphene was 3.9% and with gonadotrophins 30%. Pregnancy after the first trimester was normal, 82 (44%) were induced, 79% laboured for less than 12 hours. Spontaneous vaginal delivery occurred in 107 patients (55%), forceps delivery in 34%, breach 5.6% and caesarean section 6.1%. Only 20 babies weighed less than 2500 grams (10.5%) and 168 (88%) had an apgar score greater than 5. These infertile patients were matched with a control group of our normal obstetric population. There was no significant difference between the control and infertile patients except for a higher induction rate (p less than 0.0005) and higher forceps rate (p less than 0.001) in the infertile patients. We conclude that pregnancy following infertility is associated with a higher spontaneous miscarriage rate, but otherwise is normal.
Relationships among HMO hospital utilization, physician visits, and years operational.	Statistical tests are performed on the membership of HMOs for which data are available (N = 124) to determine if (1) hospital utilization by HMO members is correlated with physician visits, (2) hospital utilization is correlated with the number of years a HMO is operational, and (3) physician visits is correlated with the number of years a HMO is operational. Statistical tests indicate that there is no correlation among the three pairs of variables.
Population structure and consaguinity in Dota, Costa Rica, 1888-1962]	A study of consanguinity and population structure was carried out in a sample of 498 consanguineous (MC) and 570 non-consanguineous matings (MNC) in the Parrish of Dota, Costa Rica, during a period of 75 years. The inbreeding coefficient (F) shows fluctuations in time (476 to 194 x 10(-5) with an increase from 1888 to 1917, followed by a decrease in the last years but remains high in nonmigrant marriages. There is a high frequency of unions among second cousins. The endogamy percentage is high, greater in MC (80%) than in MNC (61%). Exogamy tends to diminish with time among both types of union. Effects of age distributions in the groups was not found. Marital and migrational distances are short and tend to become shorter in the final periods. There is a positive correlation (r = 0.71; p less than 0.05) between these distances in MC but not in MNC; distances are shorter in MC. Immigration is minimal and reduced to short distances. Post-marital movement is intense (37%) and involves greater distances. Emigratory behavior is identical in MC and MNC.
Clinical trial methodology.	A number of recent conferences have emphasized the importance of clinical trials methodology. The most significant of these was the one held in France in January, 1978. Much discussion centered around the use of matched historical controls from the same institution in comparison with randomized, prospectively controlled clinical trials. It was concluded that controlled clinical trials are required to answer comparative therapeutic questions in a convincing manner and that statistical advice is critical at all stages of such trials.
Increased VLDL levels and diminished renal excretion of uric acid in hyperuricaemic-hypertriglyceridaemic patients.	The objective was to study the lipoprotein levels in primary hyperuricaemic patients and to analyse their renal management or urates in order to check for some potential influence of altered lipid levels on the renal excretion of urates by this type of patient. Overall 115 male individuals were studied in five groups, namely: 30 primary hyperuricaemic (group I); 27 primary hyperuricaemic-hypercholesterolaemic (group II); nine primary hyperuricaemic-hypertriglyceridaemic (group III); 33 primary hyperuricaemic-mixed hyperlipidaemic (group IV); and 16 normouricaemic-normolipidaemic subjects (group C). All patients were subjected to blood analyses for uric acid, total triglycerides, total protein, creatinine, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, apoprotein (apo) AI, apoprotein B, apoprotein CII and apoproteins CIII1 and CIII2. For urine analysis creatinine, creatinine clearance, uric acid excretion, clearance and fractional excretion were measured in 24 h urine samples. Mixed and pure hyperuricaemic-hypertriglyceridaemic patients exhibited increased levels of VLDL components, decreased fractional excretion of uric acid and increased apo CIII/CII ratios. The increased levels of structural VLDL components were negatively (and statistically significantly) correlated with the fractional excretion of uric acid; this suggests a close biological relationship between the two parameters. Taking into account the role played by apo C in VLDL metabolism, the altered apo CIII/CII ratios found in hyperuricaemic-hypertriglyceridaemic patients (both pure and mixed) suggest that this apoprotein plays a central role in the physiopathology of the alterations observed.
Pattern discovery in gene regulation; designing an analysis environment.	Interactions that determine cellular fate are exceedingly complex, can take place at different levels of gene regulation and involve a large number of components (such as genes, proteins). 'Wet lab' biology has an inherent difficulty in considering multiple components within one experimental set-up. Thus, the individual experimental results may reflect the behavior of a sub-system and be missing some important information concerning interactions with other components. Computational tools can help in simultaneously analyzing many different pieces of biological knowledge from different data sources. Such tools will aid in comprehending the whole system (cell, organism) as a function of all of its components; this, in turn, will facilitate discovery of the global patterns in genetic regulation. The Worm Community System (WCS) which contains extensive knowledge from many different sources regarding model organism C. elegans, presents a suitable environment for development of the integrated analysis tools. Here we describe a working version of WCS and the strategies employed for the development of the global analysis tools within the System. The present paper deals with the construction of a highly interconnected information space (in the context of the problem) by introducing more sophisticated data objects representing knowledge about genetic regulation. We describe construction of the in-depth objects, development of the analysis tools and discuss the type of analysis feasible within such interconnected space. The analysis tools will serve as an ideal environment for 'dry biology' experimentation and provide a context for 'wet' experiments.
Fractal 15O-labeled water washout from the heart.	To characterize the washout of water from the heart, we used a flow-limited (not diffusion- or permeability-limited) marker for blood-tissue exchange, namely, tracer-labeled water. Experiments were performed by injecting 15O-labeled water into the inflow to isolated blood-perfused rabbit hearts and by recording the tracer content in the heart and in the outflow simultaneously for up to 5 minutes. The data exhibit a particular combination of power law forms: (1) The downslopes of the residue and outflow curves were both power law functions, with the residue diminishing as t-alpha and the outflow as t-alpha-1, where alpha is interpreted to be the dimensionless exponent of a fractal power law relation characterizing the self-similarity inherent in each curve. (2) The fractional escape rate, given by the outflow curve divided by the residue curve, diminished almost exactly as t-1. In 18 sets of curves, alpha averaged 2.21 +/- 0.27. These results lead to an improved method for extrapolating the downslopes of indicator dilution curves to estimate their areas and therefore the blood flows. The evidence also points strongly to the conclusions that myocardial water washout is a fractal process and that stirred tank models are inappropriate for the heart.
Multiple vaginal deliveries increase the risk of permanent incontinence of flatus urine in normal premenopausal women.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the risk of permanent flatus or urinary incontinence after repeated vaginal deliveries.
The detection of doubtful data: the program DOUBT.	The problem of the detection of erroneous data has led us to define the 'doubtful patients' as patients who have a small density. Our program DOUBT computes the densities associated with each patient by using the method of n nearest neighbors. Then the program allows us to define a density limit, and chooses the patients who have a smaller density then the doubtful patients. The remaining patients may be classified by the program.
Levels of soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1, eicosanoids and cytokines in ascites of patients with liver cirrhosis, peritoneal cancer and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.	The levels of the eicosanoids leukotriene B4, prostaglandin E2, prostacycline and thromboxane B2, the cytokines interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 were measured in ascites and plasma samples of patients with liver cirrhosis (53), peritoneal cancer (26) and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (10) to assess their value as a possible diagnostic and prognostic parameter in the course of the disease. Soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1, of the eicosanoids prostaglandin E2 and leukotriene B4, and the protein concentration in ascites were all significantly elevated in ascites of patients with peritoneal cancer in comparison to ascites of patients with liver cirrhosis. In ascites of patients with spontaneous bacterial infection interleukin-6 concentration was significantly elevated and the protein concentration was significantly lower in comparison to the other two groups. None of these parameters, however, seems to be of practical use as a diagnostic parameter, as there is an overlap between all the levels of these mediators in ascites of liver cirrhosis, peritoneal cancer and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis group. Soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 levels were much higher in plasma than in ascites, in contrast to interleukin-6 levels which were much higher in ascites than in plasma. Soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in ascites correlated with soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in plasma (r = 0.6926, P = 0.0001). Soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1, interleukin-6 and the number of polymorphonuclear cells in peritoneal fluid correlated during episodes of infection in patients with a peritonitis. For this reason soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and interleukin-6 could be of prognostic value for patients with peritonitis.
Clinical assessment of infarct size by serial determinations of serum creatine phosphokinase activity.	Infarct size (IS) was estimated from serial total creatine phosphokinase (CK) changes in 82 patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI). Anteroseptal and inferior MI involved a relatively small mass of myocardium (16.0 +/- 6.4 and 24.7 +/- 10.0 CK-g-eq respectively); anteroapical and inferoposterior MI had an average IS of 35.9 +/- 15.9 and 32.8 +/- 13.8 CK-g-eq respectively (NS); extensive anterior and inferoposterolateral MI had an average IS of 57.8 +/- 20.1 and 51.1 +/- 11.5 CK-g-eq respectively (NS). Left ventricular failure (LVF) correlated with estimated IS and not with location of the infarct. In patients with an IS ranging from 30 to 50 CK-g-eq, the incidence of LVF was 33%. In patients with an IS greater than 50 CK-g-eq, the incidence of LVF was 65%. Out of the 6 patients who died, 3 had an IS greater than 60 CK-g-eq. 3 groups of patients could be identified from the duration of the CK release time: in group I (mean = 20 +/l h; n = 61), infarct size was highly correlated with peak CK activity (r = 0.93); in group II (mean = 39 +/- 7 h; n = 17) the correlation between IS and peak CK activity was poor (r = 0.59) and might indicate a gradual necrosis; in group III (n = 4) patients with reinfarction showed a second peak on the descending limb of the CK activity curve. Follow-up information was available in 96% of the 76 survivors. At the end of the follow-up (18.1 +/- 10.8 mth) IS was not significantly different in patients with LVF (42.7 +/- 17.5 CK-g-eq) and in those without LVF (34.7 +/- 19.7 CK-g-eq).
Genetic and phenotypic (co)variances for growth and carcass traits of purebred and composite populations of beef cattle.	Least squares means, genetic (sigma g), and phenotypic (sigma p) standard deviations, and phenotypic coefficients of variation (CV) were estimated on an age-constant basis for growth, carcass, and meat traits of castrate males from 12 breed groups combined, for 9 purebreds combined, and for the F3 generation of three composite populations combined to which the nine purebreds contributed. Also, heritabilities (h2) and genetic (rg) and phenotypic (rp) correlations were estimated among growth, carcass, and meat traits for all breed groups combined involving 1,594 individuals that were the progeny of 306 sires (214 purebred and 92 composites). Coefficients of variation and sigma g generally were similar for composites and contributing purebreds for growth and size-related traits. For traits relating to carcass composition and meat quality, means, sigma p, or CV for composites and contributing purebreds generally were similar. Generally, estimates of sigma g and h2 were similar among all breed groups combined, contributing purebreds combined, and composites combined. Generally, rg were high among all measures of carcass fat, indicating major difficulty in achieving a high percentage of retail product simultaneously with a high fat content of the longissimus muscle that is required for carcass quality grade. Generally, rp were of smaller magnitude than rg. All rp of marbling score or percentage of ether-extracted fat in the longissimus muscle with all end-use properties relating to palatability including shear force, and sensory evaluation of tenderness, juiciness, and flavor were below .30.
Comparative analysis of motility characteristics of Percoll-selected spermatozoa populations from fresh and cryopreserved semen.	The proportion and quality of motility of spermatozoa in normozoospermic ejaculates were assessed using computer-assisted semen analysis. The ejaculate was split and the motility re-assessed following separation on a Percoll gradient with or without cryomedium and cryopreservation. Cryopreservation caused a significant decrease in the proportion of motile spermatozoa and in their velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement. The initial decrease in the proportion of motile spermatozoa was found to be in part an effect of the cryomedium. The use of Percoll gradient separation did not initially change these effects but after 4 h incubation differences in velocity and amplitude of lateral head displacement between samples were no longer evident. Percoll-selected, cryopreserved spermatozoa had both a stable proportion of motile spermatozoa and a stable velocity for at least 48 h, whereas in fresh spermatozoa populations, similarly separated using Percoll, the proportion of motile spermatozoa had decreased by 24 h and the velocity was lower at 48 h. Percoll preparation is an effective method for the selection of motile spermatozoa from cryopreserved semen which, after a short incubation, have similar motility characteristics to fresh spermatozoa.
Evaluation of the Tru-Trax cervical mucus penetration test in predicting fertilization and pregnancy rates in in-vitro fertilization.	To evaluate the role of the Tru-Trax cervical mucus penetration testing of prognosis of patient performance in in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and to examine its use as a possible screening test prior to IVF, 133 couples presenting with infertility prospectively underwent in-vitro cervical mucus penetration testing. Of these, 66 couples subsequently underwent IVF. The penetration distance of the vanguard spermatozoa in both human and bovine mucus was compared to the fertilization and pregnancy rates during IVF. The fertilization rates in couples with normal human mucus penetration (n = 42, 80.6%) were higher than those with abnormal scores (n = 24, 49.6%; P < 0.001). Similarly, the fertilization rates in those couples with normal bovine mucus penetration (n = 50, 77.5%) were higher than those with abnormal results (n = 16, 40.0%; P < 0.001). Fertilization rates and penetration scores were highly correlated for both human (r = 0.66; P < 0.0001) and bovine (r = 0.66; P < 0.0001) mucus. However, the predictive value of an abnormal result for failed fertilization was poor for both human and bovine penetration, since 83.33 and 81.25% fertilized respectively. Pregnancy rates did not differ among couples with normal and abnormal penetrations. In conclusion, in-vitro cervical mucus penetration testing was highly correlated with fertilization rates in IVF. However, the poor predictive value of an abnormal result may limit the value of this test for generalized pretreatment screening.
The results of hearing aid usage in a group of patients older than 65 years (author's transl)]	Two groups of 50 patients were randomized from patients who came to have their hearing aid fitting controlled. One group (A) had a mean age of 27.6 years with a standard deviation of +/- 12.8 years. The second group (B) had a mean age of 75.06 years with a standard deviation of 5.7 years. Our statistical analysis of these patients showed that results of hearing aid instrumentation were comparable in both groups. The investigation has revealed that hearing aid fitting should not be contraindicated because of older age.
On-line statistical detection of average evoked potentials: application to evoked response audiometry (ERA).	An objective method of EP detection in averaged EEG epochs is described which is based on the statistical properties of the averaged EEG in the absence of time-locked EP activity. The statistical properties of the subject's averaged background EEG are summarized by making a set of comparisons between two consecutive EEG epochs immediately preceding each stimulus presentation. After every stimulus presentation, a second set of comparisons is made between the post-stimulus EEG epoch and the immediately preceding pre-stimulus EEG epoch. These two sets of comparisons are then examined to determine whether the latter differ significantly from the former. The technique has been programmed for on-line use on a 12-bit minicomputer, validated on cooperative adult subjects and used for ERA threshold determinations in young children. Using response detection criteria yielding an empirically determined false positive error rate of between 1 and 4%, threshold estimates averaged about 10 dB higher than psychophysical thresholds. The efficiency with which such ERA thresholds may be obtained with this method is substantially greater than that of conventional ERA procedures employing subjective evaluation of averages. Further, the technique allows variation of detection criteria to suit non-audiometric needs and empirical determination of the false-positive error rate under any set of conditions.
Prognostic variables in patients with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices without prior bleeding.	As identification of patients at risk of bleeding or death is essential for prophylaxis, we determined the prognostic influence of various patient characteristics on the risk of bleeding and death. Fifty-five patients with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices without previous bleeding were included in the study and followed up after an average observation period of 446 days (range: 5-1211 days). A total of 55 clinical, biochemical, haemodynamic, and endoscopic variables were classified as systemic haemodynamic, portal haemodynamic, or metabolic. Using univariate analysis, the following variables showed a significant relation with an increased risk of bleeding or death: high plasma volume (p < 0.02), high azygos blood flow (p < 0.004), elevated hepatic venous pressure gradient (p < 0.02), marked prominence of varices (p < 0.05), poor nutritional status (p < 0.0001), decreased clotting factor 2,7,10 (p < 0.002), poor incapacitation index (p < 0.004), low serum albumin (p < 0.005), increased serum bilirubin (p = 0.05), elevated alkaline phosphatases (p < 0.02), low arterial oxygen saturation (p = 0.02), and encephalopathy (p < 0.007). In a Cox regression model, poor nutritional status (p < 0.00005), increased serum bilirubin (p < 0.001), short central circulation time (p < 0.03), low serum albumin (p < 0.02), and decreased clotting factor 2, 7, 10 (p < 0.05) were independently associated with a higher risk. In conclusion, the results support the prognostic value of metabolic variables as described earlier. The prognostic significance of central circulation time stresses the importance of the hyperdynamic systemic circulation in assessing the increased risk of bleeding or death.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Macromolecular query language (MMQL): prototype data model and implementation.	Macromolecular query language (MMQL) is an extensible interpretive language in which to pose questions concerning the experimental or derived features of the 3-D structure of biological macromolecules. MMQL portends to be intuitive with a simple syntax, so that from a user's perspective complex queries are easily written. A number of basic queries and a more complex query--determination of structures containing a five-strand Greek key motif--are presented to illustrate the strengths and weaknesses of the language. The predominant features of MMQL are a filter and pattern grammar which are combined to express a wide range of interesting biological queries. Filters permit the selection of object attributes, for example, compound name and resolution, whereas the patterns currently implemented query primary sequence, close contacts, hydrogen bonding, secondary structure, conformation and amino acid properties (volume, polarity, isoelectric point, hydrophobicity and different forms of exposure). MMQL queries are processed by MMQLlib; a C++ class library, to which new query methods and pattern types are easily added. The prototype implementation described uses PDBlib, another C(++)-based class library from representing the features of biological macromolecules at the level of detail parsable from a PDB file. Since PDBlib can represent data stored in relational and object-oriented databases, as well as PDB files, once these data are loaded they too can be queried by MMQL. Performance metrics are given for queries of PDB files for which all derived data are calculated at run time and compared to a preliminary version of OOPDB, a prototype object-oriented database with a schema based on a persistent version of PDBlib which offers more efficient data access and the potential to maintain derived information. MMQLlib, PDBlib and associated software are available via anonymous ftp from cuhhca.hhmi.columbia.edu.
Behavioral risk-reduction strategies to prevent HIV infection among homosexual men: a grounded theory approach.	To be able to design effective health education interventions for homosexual men, it is necessary to understand determinants of safe and unsafe sex from the perspective of those involved. In this qualitative study, therefore, an open approach was taken to allow for this perspective. Interviews were conducted with 50 randomly selected HIV-antibody negative participants in the Amsterdam Cohort Study. Detailed questions were asked about sexual interactions and behaviors with steady and nonsteady partners. Whether or not homosexual men consciously protected themselves from HIV infection and which strategy they adopted was found to depend on three major factors: 1) motivation and intention, 2) significance of anal sex, and 3) risk perception within specific relationships. From a theoretical perspective results indicate that, next to the centrality of individual motivation as postulated in both the Theory of Reasoned Action and the Theory of Planned Behavior, symbolic meaning inherent in sexual acts, as well as type of relationship are important determinants of protective sexual behaviors that have to be taken into account to understand adequately why homosexual men engage in safe or unsafe sex. Some strategies employed by homosexual men carry uncertainties that continue to put them at increased risk for HIV infection. Health education interventions can be designed to address these issues.
Scale reliability and construct validity: a pilot study among primary school children in Northern Tanzania.	Based on the World Health Organization's standardized survey inventories assessing AIDS-related knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and practices (KABP) for adolescents, a written questionnaire was developed and pilot tested among primary school children in Northern Tanzania. Subjects included 472 fifth and sixth graders at four schools in Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions. Results indicated that the large majority of the students understood the questions and were able and willing to complete the survey. Non-response patterns did not seem to be related to the sensitivity of included questions. AIDS-related knowledge and attitudes toward engaging in sexual behavior had acceptable reliability and construct validity when compared with similar surveys in Western countries, while perceived social norms and self-efficacy need further development. KABP questionnaires may serve as a useful method in AIDS-related surveys and evaluation studies among school children in Tanzania if survey instruments are adapted to reflect the local social and cultural context.
The value of the Neurometer in assessing diabetic neuropathy by measurement of the current perception threshold.	The Neurometer is a relatively new device for assessing neuropathy by measuring current perception threshold (CPT). The study aim was to assess the ability of the Neurometer to distinguish between different types of nerve fibre damage by using different frequencies (2000 Hz, 250 Hz, and 5 Hz) of electric stimulus (high frequencies for large fibres and low frequencies for small fibres) and comparing the results with standard sensory tests of vibration perception threshold (VPT) and thermal perception threshold (TPT). CPT was determined on index finger and great toe of 51 patients with diabetic neuropathy and 28 non-diabetic control subjects, age and sex matched. CPT in neuropathic patients could be distinguished from controls at all three frequencies in both feet and hands (p < 0.05). The best correlation was found between CPT at 2000 Hz and VPT (r = 0.48, p < 0.001) in the feet suggesting a degree of neuroselectivity. Internal correlations between CPT at the three frequencies showed the weakest correlation between CPT at 2000 Hz and 5 Hz (r = 0.27, p < 0.005), suggesting also that possibly different types of fibres were examined. CPT reproducibility was better in control (CV = 6.4-27.7%), than in neuropathic subjects (CV = 28.4-52.3%), although the coefficient of variation was comparable to that of standard tests of sensory function, VPT and TPT. The Neurometer is a simple instrument to use in clinical practice. It has a degree of neuroselectivity but like all subjective sensory tests has a large variability.
Treatment of patients with familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 with pravastatin and gemfibrozil: a two-period cross-over study.	Thirty patients with familial defective apolipoprotein B-100 were treated in a two-period (8 weeks each) cross-over study with pravastatin and gemfibrozil. Cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and apo B were reduced by 20-25% (P < 10(-4)) by pravastatin and by 4-6% by gemfibrozil (pravastatin vs. gemfibrozil: P < 10(-4)). Response to pravastatin was variable and not correlated to gender, age, or apo E genotype. Gemfibrozil lowered triglycerides by 25% (P < 10(-4)) and raised HDL cholesterol by 11%. The effects of pravastatin on these two interrelated variables were significantly smaller. Both drugs increased Lp(a) significantly by about 10%. The LDL cholesterol lowering effect of pravastatin in patients with FDB is similar to that observed in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.
Plasma lipids and lipoproteins and essential hypertension.	In recent years there have been many studies demonstrating a correlation between increased arterial blood pressure and altered lipid profiles, and there has been an especially positive correlation between high cholesterol levels and blood pressure. There are differences between the various reports that are important. In our study the lipid distribution in 105 hypertensive patients with mild or moderate arterial hypertension according to WHO criteria without clinically or ultrasonographically apparent atherosclerosis was compared to the lipid distribution in 65 age-matched healthy persons. On the epidemiological level a significant, positive association was found between LDL serum levels (P < or = 0.001), Apo B serum levels (P < or = 0.001), serum triglyceride levels (P < or = 0.05) and VLDL serum levels (P < or = 0.01) and arterial hypertension. However, in contrast to recent reports, no significant difference was found between total serum cholesterol levels in normotensives and hypertensives, and there was no difference in HDL serum levels. No evidence could be found for a significant increase in lipoprotein (a) serum levels in hypertensives.
Statistical tools for understanding variation: the allocation of operating suite time.	Australian hospitals are becoming increasingly familiar with the 'new' tools for continuous quality improvement. In particular, many are becoming increasingly competent in establishing and supporting quality improvement teams for process evaluation and improvement. The main problems with such teams now seems to arise in relation to the analysis and interpretation of data on the process. This paper provides an example of the types of analyses and interpretations required of today's quality improvement practitioner in health care.
Post-prandial effects in reactivity of forehead and mid-femoral skin blood flow and heart rate in neonates.	The effect of post-prandial period on the cutaneous vascular reactivity was studied in twelve full-term infants on their 3rd postnatal day. The differences in vasomotor reactions between the forehead and femoral skin were also investigated. Two 10-min control registrations about 30 and 90 min after feeding were followed by a registration of equal duration during thermal stimulation of the skin. The lower extremity of each infant was stimulated by warm and cool air currents (5 cycles/min) to induce periodic vasomotor changes. The fast Fourier transform was used to compute variability spectra for the recorded skin blood flow, heart rate and respiratory wave form signals. The skin blood flow became synchronised to the thermal stimulation in both skin regions. Neither the spontaneous nor synchronised oscillations of the skin blood flow differed significantly between femoral skin and forehead. The post-prandial time did not have any influence on this synchronisation. Heart rate variability was synchronised to the periodicity of thermal stimulation more 1.5 h after feeding than 0.5 h after feeding. Respiration was not affected. The results show that increasing post-prandial time has no influence on the synchronised oscillations of skin blood flow. However, it potentiates reactivity of heart rate to perturbations in the peripheral vasculature.
Interactive developmental toxicity of radiofrequency radiation and 2-methoxyethanol in rats.	Concurrent exposures to chemical and physical agents occur in the workplace; exposed workers include those involved with the microelectronics industry, plastic sealers, and electrosurgical units. Previous animal research indicates that hyperthermia induced by an elevation in ambient temperature can potentiate the toxicity and teratogenicity of some chemical agents. We previously demonstrated that combined exposure to radiofrequency (RF; 10 MHz) radiation, which also induces hyperthermia and is teratogenic to exposed animals, and the industrial solvent, 2-methoxyethanol (2ME), produces enhanced teratogenicity in rats. The present study replicates and extends the previous research investigating the enhanced teratogenicity of combined RF radiation and 2ME exposures. The interactive dose-related teratogenicity of RF radiation (sham exposure or maintaining colonic temperatures at 42.0 degrees C for 0, 10, 20, or 30 min) and 2ME (0, 75, 100, 125, or 150 mg/kg) was investigated by administering various combinations of RF radiation and 2ME to groups of rats on gestation days 9 or 13; gestation-day 20 fetuses were examined for external, skeletal, and visceral malformations. The results are consistent with and extend our previous research findings. Synergism was observed between RF radiation and 2ME for some treatment combinations, but not for others. The study also clarified which gestational periods, RF radiation exposure durations, and 2ME doses would be most informative in future interaction studies to determine the lowest interactive effect level. Day 9 exposures generally evidenced little effect by 2ME, either by itself or in combination with RF radiation. In contrast, day 13 exposures resulted in highly significant effects from 2ME and RF radiation. The structures showing strong evidence of effects from both 2ME and RF radiation after exposure on gestation day 13 were the forepaw digits, forepaw phalanges, hindpaw digits, hindpaw phalanges, hind limbs, metacarpals, and metatarsals. Statistical analyses did not show a global synergistic effect, but did show evidence for a synergistic effect at intermediate levels of the dose ranges. Future research will address potential interactions at lower doses.
Selected aspects of the population health status in ecological hazard areas in comparison with ecologically "clean" area. II. Assessment of spatial distribution of mortality.	On the basis of age adjusted rates of mortality from all diseases and from diseases of the circulatory system in female and male populations living in ecological hazard areas and in ecologically "clean" area, the distributions of the rate values were assessed. In the regions under consideration, urban and rural regions were distinguished. The goodness of fit of the empirical distribution to the normal one was assessed using the following statistical parameters: arithmetic mean, mode, median, standard deviation, coefficient of variation, coefficient of asymmetry, difference between the third and the first quartiles, as well as the Chi2 and lambda-Kolmogorow-Smirnow tests, maximum difference between cumulative distribution functions and standard deviation of differences between empirical and theoretical frequencies. A differentiation in the mean values of age adjusted rates of mortality from both groups of diseases in ecological hazard areas and in "clean" area was indicated particularly in urban female and male populations.
Planning for precision in survival studies.	If the purpose of a clinical study is not only to test the null hypothesis but also to estimate the magnitude of the treatment effect, the study design should ensure not only that the study will have adequate power but also that it will enable the researcher to report the relevant parameters with an appropriate level of precision. This paper discusses the factors that control precision in survival studies and shows how a computer program may be used to address these issues. The program allows the user to systematically modify assumptions about the population (e.g. the magnitude of the hazard ratio or the attrition rate) and elements of the study design (e.g. sample size and trial duration), quickly identify the impact of these factors on the study's precision, and modify the study design accordingly. The program may also be used to compute power for a planned study, and confidence intervals for a completed study.
Modelling observer agreement--an alternative to kappa.	The measurement of agreement among several observers of the same phenomenon has traditionally been analyzed with a kappa coefficient. Recently, methodology for the modelling of such interobserver agreement has been developed. The details and advantages of this methodology are demonstrated by way of the analysis of three examples. Directions for the fitting of these models using the computer program SPSS-X are included in the Appendix.
Indirect talk of signalling systems in endotoxicosis: cross-talk alternatives.	This work evaluated indirect talk, a system of communication between two secondary messengers which uses a third modulating messenger/compound for communication. It expands on our previous report (6) of mean levels and univariate linear/non-linear relationships. It presents results using multivariate testing with vectorial modeling. The signal transduction systems (sts) studied through 125I-radioimmunoassay involved: adenosine 3':5' -cyclic monophosphate (cAMP); and the guanylate cyclase sts via guanine 3':5' -cyclic monophosphate (cGMP). Through multivariate testing, the dependency of a specified parameter was determined relative to two or more independent parameters. The contributing aspects of each of the independent variables were assigned to either 2- or 3-dimensional axes. Through the vector analyses the topic of indirect talk was well aspected. Multivariate equations showed that communication between two systems occurred. Vectorial analysis showed that the direct/indirect mechanism of that communication (namely, indirect talk) occurred. Such analysis leads to a greater understanding of endotoxemia that adversely affects skeletal muscle.
Cost-benefit evaluation of artificial insemination for genetic improvement of wool-producing sheep.	The financial costs and benefits associated with the use of artificial insemination (AI) in commercial flocks are evaluated. Benefits are calculated in terms of net present values after summing the discounted value of benefits over 20 years. Two breeding strategies are evaluated. With the first, AI is used to produce flock ewes and wethers. The method is unlikely to be profitable unless high breeding value rams are available for AI programs with fresh semen. With the second, AI is used to produce home-bred rams, which in turn sire flock ewes and wethers. This approach is more likely to be profitable. The cost of AI per lamb weaned from laparoscopic AI programs is about $100. Benefits exceed this cost for rams of very high merit when wool prices are moderate or higher. Flock structure has a significant effect on the benefits. Flocks with low wether retention rates have benefits half that of flocks that retain most wethers to 6 years of age. AI with purchased semen also provides benefits to risk management for owners of commercial flocks who wish to breed their own replacement flock rams.
Diarrhoea in merino ewes during winter: association with trichostrongylid larvae.	A study on 3 farms, each having a preventive strategy for the control of nematode infections, determined the risk factors associated with diarrhoea among Merino ewes in winter. Comparisons were made among groups of mated and unmated ewes with and without treatment with controlled-release capsules containing albendazole. Diarrhoea was assessed from the accumulations of faeces around the breech (dag score) and related to worm egg counts, total worm counts and histopathological findings. The overall prevalence of severe dag in ewes not treated with a capsule was 26% (221/844). In comparison, only 2.7% of treated ewes had severe dag. The adjusted odds ratio on each farm indicated that untreated ewes were between 12 and 16 times more likely to be affected with severe dag than ewes treated with a capsule. The effect of lactation was significant on only one farm whereas initial body weight had no significant effect. There was no significant association between worm egg counts and the occurrence of severe dag. There were significantly more eosinophils in the small intestine of ewes affected with severe dag compared with unaffected ewes. There were no significant differences in mast cell and globule leucocyte numbers between affected and unaffected ewes. This study provides strong evidence that the main cause of diarrhoea among Merino ewes grazing winter and early spring pastures is the ingestion of trichostrongylid larvae even by sheep that have a well-developed protective immune response to these parasites. New strategies for the control of nematode infections are needed to prevent diarrhoea and dag formation in adult sheep.
Productivity through weaning of nine breeds of cattle under varying feed availabilities: I. Initial evaluation.	The effect of varying dry matter availability on the conversion of dry matter resources to weight of calf at weaning was evaluated for nine breeds of cattle; Angus, Braunvieh, Charolais, Gelbvieh, Hereford, Limousin, Red Poll, Pinzgauer, and Simmental were recorded for 5 yr. Within each breed, four cows were assigned to each of four feeding levels of dry matter intake: 58, 76, 93, or 111 g of DM/wt75. Cows remained on their assigned diet regimen throughout the study. Individual cow consumption, daily feed allowance adjusted for refusal, was recorded weekly. Production information included birth and weaning weight of the progeny, calving rate, and cow weights and condition scores. Cows were exposed to bulls of the same breed for 90 d. Reasons for cow replacement included failure to conceive in two successive years, injury, Caesarean section, chronic illness, and death. Response to dry matter intake (DMI) was curvilinear and differed among breeds (P < .10) for calving rate, calf survival, and weight of calf weaned per cow exposed. Significant differences occurred among the breeds for the linear response to DMI for cow weight and condition score. The response to DMI was curvilinear for birth weight (P < .10), but the response did not differ among breeds (P > .20). Red Poll exhibited more effective conversion at DMI less than 4,000 kg/yr, but breeds with greater genetic potential for growth and(or) milk production (Gelbvieh, Charolais, Braunvieh, Simmental, Pinzgauer, and Limousin) were more efficient at DMI greater than 6,000 kg/yr. Ranking for biological production efficiency (weight of calf weaned-cow exposed-1.kg DMI of cow-1) through weaning among breeds of cattle varied with dry matter intake.
Construction of a surrogate variable for impotence in the Massachusetts Male Aging Study.	Uncollected data must be filled in after the fact in many epidemiological studies. We compared several methods for constructing a surrogate variable for erectile potency, based on responses to related questions, in the Massachusetts Male Aging Study (MMAS). Quadratic discriminant analysis performed best among the procedures tested, achieving high rates of correct classification in cross-validation of training data and (according to posterior estimates) in classification of MMAS subjects. Two versions of the surrogate variable were constructed, one involving a discrete classification and the other involving a set of continuous probabilities. The two versions were used to investigate medical correlates of impotence in MMAS and produced similar results, although the continuous version appeared to provide higher statistical power. We conclude that construction of a surrogate variable is a viable and potentially beneficial option in epidemiological investigations.
Estimate of genetic variations in Hokkaido brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis) by DNA fingerprinting.	Genetic variations within and between local populations of Hokkaido brown bears, Ursus arctos yesoensis, were quantified by means of DNA fingerprinting using a minisatellite DNA probe. The estimates of the average heterozygosity (gene diversity) H were 0.302 and 0.241 for the populations on the southwestern part of the Oshima peninsula and the Shiretoko peninsula, respectively. These values suggest that local populations studied in this study have low genetic variability compared with those for other animals. The degree of genetic differentiation between the populations, measured by the coefficient of gene diversity (GST), was 7.9 percent and 19.5 percent. These results indicate a low degree of genetic differentiation between the local populations. The results obtained are discussed in relation to a population bottleneck in the ancestors and subsequent expansion of their habitat.
Indications of surgical treatment of Crohn disease]	Indications for surgery in Crohn's disease were studied in 100 consecutive cases. Cases included emergency situations (n = 22) complicated forms (n = 55) and chronic forms (n = 23). Lesions were located in the small bowel alone (n = 43), small and large bowel (n = 16) and in the colon and rectum (n = 16). During the same period, 26 reoperations were performed, there was no operative mortality and no short bowels were observed. A stomy was required in 30 cases and could be removed in 19. For lesions involving the small bowel, resections were limited to symptomatic lesions; long and short plasties were performed with no complications. For the colon, total and segmentary colectomy was performed for 18 cases and ileorectal anastomoses in 13. Five proctectomies were required. Rectal exclusion was considered as a wait and see solution which was long in several cases with severe rectoperineal lesions. In these cases, secondary proctectomy should be widely proposed. For emergency situations, it would be prudent to use a safe operative technique with wide indication for stomies. For complicated forms, careful preparation allows for complete procedure with one operation. For chronic forms resistant to medical treatment, the decision can be rather difficult, but the fact that recurrences do exist should not mask the long-term remissions obtained in half the cases with surgery.
The individual typological characteristics of the habitus of young children and the principles of somatotyping]	The nature of individual differences in early childhood was investigated by the principal component analysis of 22 absolute anthropological measures. The first principal component accounted for 45% of variability; it may be referred to as a general body-size factor, the same as in the studies of senior children and adults. The second principal component accounted for 14% of differences in habitus of children. Sex differences were inconsiderable. The concordance of the topology based on the values of two first principal components and on the V. G. Shtefko and A. D. Ostrovskiĭ classifying system was lower than 50%.
Effects of dietary thiouracil on thyroid activity, egg production, and eggshell quality in commercial layers.	The effects of thyroid suppression induced during the rearing period by providing various dietary thiouracil (TU) regimens on plasma thyroxine (T4) concentrations, growth, and subsequent egg production (EP) and eggshell quality were determined in Single Comb White Leghorn chickens. Thiouracil was provided in the feed at levels of 0, .1, and .2% from 0 to 6 wk of age in Experiment 1, and at levels of 0, .05, and .1% from 6 to 16 wk of age in Experiment 2. In both experiments, T4 concentrations were reduced during TU treatment. However, T4 later became elevated at 12 and 20 wk in both dosage level groups in Experiment 1. Additionally, BW and egg weights were suppressed by both TU treatments, and EP was reduced up to Week 23 in the .1% TU-treated birds and through Week 25 in the .2% TU-treated birds. No effects on EP were noted in Experiment 2, but feed consumption (FC) was reduced during Week 6 in birds fed .05% TU and during Weeks 6, 10, and 19 in birds fed .1% TU. Both liver and thyroid weights were increased in .1% TU-treated birds relative to controls at Week 16. Eggshell quality was affected only in Experiment 2, in which birds given .05% TU had a higher relative conductance, or maximum rate of water loss, at Week 38 than 0 and .1% TU dosage levels, and .1% TU-treated birds had a higher breaking strength than 0 and .05% TU-treated birds at Week 22.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Voices of leadership in a community under stress: personal observations by officials on an epidemiologic mistake.	We studied the responses of leaders in a suburban community in western Canada near Edmonton, Alberta, that was affected by a false allegation of increased cancer risk. In 1986, a cancer agency responded to community concerns by conducting a study of cancer incidence (1979-1983) and reported elevations on the order of 25 per cent over expected for most sites. Reanalysis of these data several months later revealed an error in the population figure used to calculate the rates. Correction brought the rates into line with Alberta as a whole and comparable to those for other communities surrounding Edmonton. We interviewed elected and appointed public officials in one affected community as well as non-official community leaders and realtors to determine their subjective impression regarding the effect of the incident on their communities and to rule out alternative explanations for the drop in housing prices in association with the incident we have reported elsewhere. Their narrative responses were particularly interesting and articulate, and are quoted at length. Their collective perceptions appear to confirm the impression of a profound impact on the community, reflected in housing prices, and attribute at least part of the impact to the disclosure that a high official in the community was afflicted by cancer. Most felt that there remained a great deal of latent concern in the community and at least some felt that a subsequent public issue involving transmission line rights-of-way near the community reactivated this latent concern.
Morphometric analysis of enteric lesions in C3H/HeN mice inoculated with Serpulina hyodysenteriae serotypes 2 and 4 with or without oral streptomycin pretreatment.	The segmental distribution and sequential progression and the role of the indigenous bacterial flora in the development of enteric lesions associated with Serpulina hyodysenteriae infection in laboratory mice have not been defined. We examined the distribution and sequential morphometric changes in the large intestine of mice orally inoculated with S. hyodysenteriae serotypes 2 and 4. To determine the role of colonization resistance conferred by the indigenous bacterial flora, 40 female C3H/HeN mice were administered water alone or water containing 5 mg/mL streptomycin sulfate ad libitum for seven days prior to orogastric inoculation either with S. hyodysenteriae or sterile trypticase soy broth (TSB). Clinical signs were monitored daily and three mice per group were necropsied on postinoculation days (PID) 7 and 14 for pathological assessment of the cecum, proximal colon, transverse colon, and descending colon, and bacteriological culture of the cecum for S. hyodysenteriae. Weekly pooled fecal samples were collected from each group for determination of total numbers of anaerobe bacteria. Gross examination revealed soft fecal pellets on PID 7 and 14 and catarrhal typhlitis on PID 14, irrespective of streptomycin pretreatment. The recovery rates of S. hyodysenteriae from the ceca of serotype 2- and serotype 4-inoculated mice was 100 and 91.7%, respectively. Statistically significant differences in morphometric changes between TSB- and S. hyodysenteriae-inoculated mice were present on PID 7 and 14 and were restricted to the cecum. Although oral administration of streptomycin for seven days prior to S. hyodysenteriae inoculation resulted in a significant reduction in the numbers of fecal anaerobes, it did not affect the colonization, distribution, severity, or progression of cecal lesions.
Pulmonary vascular pressures of thoroughbreds increase rapidly and to a higher level with rapid onset of high-intensity exercise than slow onset.	Previous studies of pulmonary vascular pressures have utilised gradual incremental step exercise protocols, but in competitive racing at the track, horses perform rapid acceleration high-intensity exercise. The rate of rise in pulmonary vascular pressures under conditions of quick onset high-intensity exercise is unknown. Catheter mounted manometers, whose in vivo signals were matched with pressure signals obtained via transducers connected to fluid-filled lumens from same cardiovascular sites, were used to compare right heart and pulmonary vascular pressures in 8 healthy Thoroughbreds performing 2 separate exercise protocols on a high speed treadmill (gradually incremental vs. rapid acceleration exercise protocol where the belt speed was raised from 8 m/s to 15 m/s in 8 s). Heart rate, right atrial and pulmonary vascular pressures at rest were similar for the 2 protocols. Rapid acceleration of horses from 8 to 15 m/s was attended by an equally rapid escalation in the right heart and pulmonary vascular pressures such that these pressures reached their zenith as belt speed approached 15 m/s. Although exercise at 15 m/s resulted in similar heart rate in the 2 protocols, the mean +/- s.e. values of mean right atrial pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure, mean pulmonary artery wedge pressure and mean pulmonary capillary pressure (91.5 +/- 3.9 mmHg) in the rapid acceleration exercise were significantly (P < 0.05) higher than respective values at 15 m/s in the gradual incremental step exercise protocol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hyperinsulinemia in polycystic ovary syndrome: relationship to clinical and hormonal factors.	We analyzed the association between hyperandrogenism and hyperinsulinemia, and their relationship to body mass index, in a large series of patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). A characteristic hormonal profile was sought in women with marked hyperinsulinemia. The patient group consisted of 73 women with PCOS, ranging in age from 16 to 29 years. The control group consisted of 34 healthy women with no evidence of hyperandrogenism, aged 19-30 years. None of the patients or control women had a body mass index above 27 kg/m2. Follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, prolactin, testosterone, estradiol, androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, sex hormone binding globulin, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, and free cortisol were determined by radioimmunoassay. The free testosterone index was calculated. The oral glucose tolerance test was used to analyze basal insulinemia, maximum insulin peak, and the insulinemia/glycemia index. In the group with PCOS body mass index was greater, free testosterone index was higher, and levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, testosterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone (P < 0.001) and androstenedione (P < 0.05) were higher than in the control group. Of the insulin parameters, basal insulinemia, maximum insulin peak, and insulinemia/glycemia index were higher in the patient group (P < 0.001). In patients with marked insulinemia, free testosterone index was more markedly elevated, and gonadotrophin levels were normal. Our data confirm that a characteristic pattern of hyperinsulinemia is associated with PCOS. We found no causal relationship between hyperinsulinemia and androgen levels. A characteristic hormonal pattern was found in patients with marked hyperinsulinemia.
Effects of head-down bed rest on complex heart rate variability: response to LBNP testing.	Head-down bed rest is used to model physiological changes during spaceflight. We postulated that bed rest would decrease the degree of complex physiological heart rate variability. We analyzed continuous heart rate data from digitized Holter recordings in eight healthy female volunteers (age 28-34 yr) who underwent a 13-day 6 degree head-down bed rest study with serial lower body negative pressure (LBNP) trials. Heart rate variability was measured on 4-min data sets using conventional time and frequency domain measures as well as with a new measure of signal "complexity" (approximate entropy). Data were obtained pre-bed rest (control), during bed rest (day 4 and day 9 or 11), and 2 days post-bed rest (recovery). Tolerance to LBNP was significantly (P < 0.02) reduced on both bed rest days vs. pre-bed rest. Heart rate variability was assessed at peak LBNP. Heart rate approximate entropy was significantly (P < 0.05) decreased at day 4 and day 9 or 11, returning toward normal during recovery. Heart rate standard deviation and the ratio of high- to low-power frequency did not change significantly. We conclude that short-term bed rest is associated with a decrease in the complex variability of heart rate during LBNP testing in healthy young adult women. Measurement of heart rate complexity, using a method derived from nonlinear dynamics ("chaos theory"), may provide a sensitive marker of this loss of physiological variability, complementing conventional time and frequency domain statistical measures.
Drug sensitivity of Plasmodium falciparum in Gabon. Activity correlations between various antimalarials.	The sensitivity of Plasmodium falciparum to chloroquine, mefloquine, quinine, halofantrine, and sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine has been investigated at Lambaréné, in the Gabonese rain forest, between April and September 1992. WHO standard micro in vitro tests were performed. Of 43 isolates tested for response to chloroquine all were resistant to the drug with mean EC 50 and EC 90 values of 1.86 and 4.18 mumol/l blood, respectively, indicating the highest degree of resistance ever reported from Central Africa. With sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine 19 out of 27 isolates showed 90% inhibition of schizont maturation at a pyrimethamine concentration of at least 75 nmol/l blood medium mixture, indicating 30% of resistance to sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine. In contrast all isolates tested were fully inhibited by mefloquine at 3.2 mumol/l blood (40 isolates), quinine at 5.12 mumol/l blood medium mixture (41 isolates) and halofantrine at 3 nmol/l blood medium mixture (40 isolates) indicating full sensitivity to these drugs. A significant positive correlation was found between responses to quinine and mefloquine. The response to halofantrine was positively correlated with the responses to quinine and mefloquine, in the case of chloroquine and halofantrine an inverse relationship was observed. Compared with previous data from Gabon, the findings suggest a substantial increase of chloroquine resistance, in contrast to reports from neighbouring countries, which show stabilising or even declining chloroquine resistance patterns.
Limits of quantal analysis reliability: quantal and unimodal constraints and setting of confidence intervals for quantal size.	An accurate objective method for determining the reliability of estimates of quantal size (Q) at central synapses was developed. To do this, distributions of amplitudes of postsynaptic responses were simulated by convolving a number of discrete amplitudes separated by equal increments Q with gaussian noise, after which the value of Q was estimated by the maximum likelihood method under different constraints on the discrete distribution. It was shown that the likelihood function (LF) had several local maxima under the quantal constraint, and, if the value of the ratio between Q and the standard deviation of the noise (sigma) was less than 3, the global maximum of the LF corresponded to a biased estimate of Q lying in a range of values less than 1.5 sigma. The best estimates of Q were obtained when unimodal discrete distributions of amplitudes resulting from the maximum likelihood method were selected. However, this method also gave biased estimates when Q/sigma was less than 1.5-2.3. The limit of reliability depended on the number of discrete components and the sample size. To calculate confidence intervals for the quantal size, different numbers and weights of components were used to simulate amplitude histograms with different values of Q/sigma. Three data sets were used to illustrate the procedure.
Takayasu arteritis.	To evaluate prospectively the clinical features, angiographic findings, and response to treatment of patients with Takayasu arteritis.
The human T cell antigen receptor repertoire: skewed use of V beta gene families by CD8+ T cells.	The TCR repertoire of human CD8+ peripheral blood lymphocytes has been determined using MoAbs to the V beta 2, 3, 5.1, 5.2/5.3, 6.7, 8, 12 and 19(17)V beta gene families. The CD8T cell repertoire for V beta 2 and V beta 3 is shown to be skewed, with an excess of individuals having higher values than are consistent with a normal distribution. A significant majority of these individuals are over the age of 40. High values of V beta CD8+ cells were found for each V beta family studied except for 6.7a. Individual high values are stable for at least 12 months. In addition, the total percentage of CD4 and CD8 cells reacting with this panel of reagents was determined. There is a significant excess of V beta + CD4+ cells (33%) over CD8+V beta + cells (21.9%). Thus the human CD8 V beta repertoire differs from the human CD4 repertoire in a number of important ways.
Can unnecessary operations for abdominal stab would be safely reduced? A review of 255 patients.	Records of 255 patients who underwent laparotomies for stab wounds to the abdomen and lower chest were reviewed. Criteria for laparotomy were clinical and followed the conventional lines. Seventy-six patients (30%) were classified as having had an unnecessary laparotomy. Univariate analysis with the Chi-square test revealed 8 variables which differed significantly between the necessary and unnecessary laparotomy groups. Further stepwise discriminant analysis demonstrated 4 variables which had independent significance; they are the type of injury, generalized abdominal tenderness, haemoperitoneum and active intraabdominal bleeding. A mathematical model utilizing these 4 variables may be able to predict the need for laparotomy more accurately than utilizing any single variable. A prospective study is needed to test this hypothesis.
Parasites of domestic and wild animals in South Africa. XXXII. Ixodid ticks on scrub hares in the Transvaal.	A total of 264 scrub hares (Lepus saxatilis) were examined for ixodid ticks at various localities in the Kruger National Park, eastern Transvaal Lowveld. Thirteen tick species were recovered from these hares. The seasonal abundances of the immature stages of Amblyomma hebraeum, Amblyomma marmoreum, Hyalomma truncatum, Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi, Rhipicephalus simus and Rhipicephalus zambeziensis and all stages of a Rhipicephalus sp. (near R. pravus) were determined. Three scrub hares, examined in the north-western Transvaal Bushveld, were infested with five ixodid tick species. Ten hares examined in the eastern Transvaal Highveld harboured three species. A total of 15 ixodid tick species were recovered from the scrub hares examined in the three regions of the Transvaal. No haematozoa were found in blood smears made from the hares examined in the southern region of the Kruger National Park.
The involvement of the components of the immune system in iron deficiency]	As exemplified by iron deficiency anemia, the study was made of effect of iron deficiency on interdependence of immunity parameters. It is noted that patients with definite forms of the anemia showed less numerous correlations than in controls. The emergence of complications increased the number of persistent correlation pleiad compared to controls. Moreover, correlation and variance analyses suggested a correlation between immunity and iron deficiency parameters.
Correlation of protein content in salivary gland tissue, oral mucosa and saliva in experimental staphylococcal sialoadenitis]	The dependence between the total content and excretion of protein (P) in salivary gland tissue (SGT), oral mucosa (OM) and saliva has been investigated. The difference between P contents in intact gland and during staphylococcus sialoadenitis has been shown. After 2 hours of staphylococcus toxin injection in non-stimulated SGT P contents are not changed, and in saliva--are increased. After 24 hours in non-stimulated SGT P contents are decreased, in OM P contents are increased. By stimulation of SGT, P contents increases, in OM--decreases.
Comparative study of chemically modified hemoglobins as a basis for oxygen-carrying blood substitutes]	The series of hemoglobin derivatives were obtained with the different content of the polymer fractions; their comparative study by the methods of gel-chromatography and SDS-electrophoresis was conducted and the estimation of their functional, rheological, colloid-oncotic properties and the degree of immunogenicity was carried out in order to choose the optimal substance judging by their physico-chemical, gas-carrying and antigenic characteristics. It was shown that the polymerised hemoglobin with the polymer content of 25-30% has the optimal properties as the oxygen carrier. The 10% solution of this compound possesses oxygen-carrying characteristics identical to donors erythrocytes, viscosity of no more than 1.5 sP, colloid oncotic pressure in the range of 15-17.5 torr, it practically doesn't influence the aggregation of the formula blood elements and has low antigenicity. The results obtained allow to consider this type of poly-hemoglobin as a potential oxygen-carrying blood substitute.
A method for evaluating skin mechanical parameters for examination of patients with varicose veins of the legs]	Possibility of application of the new method, based on detection of surface acoustic wave spreading velocity, for diagnostics of various disease extent. It has been determined that there is some correlation between the skin mechanical parameters at the more affected sites of it and the disease extent. Correlation between acute thrombophlebitis and skin state in affected zone has been shown.
Content of vitamins E and A in tumor tissue in kidney cancer]	Vitamin E was quantified in tumor tissue obtained from 17 patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The tumors consisted of two groups: (I) represented primarily by clear cells (10 cases) and (II) without predominant appearance of those cells (7 cases). Vitamin E concentration in tumor tissue was compared with that in intact tissue sites of the kidney. The vitamin content in intact renal medulla was shown to be 1.5 times higher than in intact cortex. Vitamin E level in group I tumors was shown to be on average 15 and 10 times as much as in intact renal cortex and medulla, respectively. The vitamin concentration in group II tumors, as compared with the above intact renal tissues, was 7- and 5-fold higher, respectively. In spite of the high tumor total lipids levels, the vitamin E concentration, calculated per mg total lipids, was still higher in tumor tissue than in the normal renal tissues. This finding was especially demonstrable for the group I tumors. In the benign renal tumor angiomyolipoma vitamin E concentration, calculated on a wet weight basis, was higher than in intact renal tissue, but no differences were observed when a per total lipids calculation was performed. Vitamin A concentration determined in the tumor samples obtained from 6 patients was the same as in intact cortex.
Age-related changes in the dopaminergic system in rat striatum]	The dopaminergic neurochemical parameters of the adult (3 months) rat's striata in comparison with those of aged (26 months) ones were studied using HPLC/ED method. It was shown that Dopamine (DA) and its intracellular metabolite DOPAC content increase in striatal homogenates of aged rats up to 153 and 165%, accordingly. The level of other metabolite--HVA, as well as intensity of basal DA efflux from perfused isolated striata decreased to 77 and 45%, respectively. The high negative correlation (r = -0.90; p < 0.05) was observed between DA efflux and DOPAC content on aged, but not on adult rats (r = 0.11; p > 0.05). The suggestion concerning the aging--related changes of the interactions within striatal DA-ergic system is discussed.
Ultrastructural study of transepithelial pinocytosis induced by endotoxin in the distal section of the nephron]	In initial and intermediate periods of endotoxin shock in rats and dogs significant micropinocytosis in the epithelial cells of distal tubules and collecting ducts are observed. On the stage of late endotoxemia in rats transepithelial pinocytosis disappears. Existence of correlative connections between ultrastructural changes in neurosecretory system and epithelial cells responsible for facultative reabsorption in different periods of experimental endotoxemia have been shown.
Normal distribution of hand preference and its bimodality.	The distribution of hand preference was studied in human subjects by means of The Waterloo Handedness Questionnaire and Edinburgh Handedness Inventory. The Waterloo Handedness scores (WS) and Geschwind Scores (GS) were estimated. Left-handers (WS < 0; GS < 0) and right-handers (WS > 0; GS > 0) constituted separate groups (dichotomy). The WSs, and to a lesser extent GSs, were distributed normally when only the right-handers were considered. There was a significant positive-linear correlation between WSs and GSs. These results suggested that a detailed questionnaire such as the Waterloo Handedness Questionnaire would be more appropriate than concise questionnaires in assessing hand preference. A normally distributed right-hand preference and a widely dispersed left-hand preference also supports the concept of anomalous dominance for left-handedness.
Computer based statistical study of cartography in mortality upto age of one year.	Present cartography procedures for quantitative indicators are arbitrary on choice of the number of categories in which a particular area is to be divided. The choice of initial cutoff and the choice of the width of each category is also arbitrary. To remove this arbitrariness and thus to introduce objectivity, we propose use of a statistical procedure called cluster analysis. This procedure is easy to use on a computer. We also propose using computer based maps. We use these methods on mortality indicators upto age of one year for major states of India to devise objective maps. The terminology of mortality indicators upto age of one year has been used by UNICEF document(1). The mortality indicators analysed are infant mortality rate, neonatal mortality rate, postneonatal mortality rate, perinatal mortality rate and still birth rate. Different indicators reveal different pictures. In this paper, we also propose an innovation to obtain an integrated picture by simultaneously considering all the four indicators in a multivariate setting. Such mapping could help the health managers and planners to devise more effective strategies to control child mortality.
Infusions of a novel calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) derivative at the time of reperfusion to salvage ischaemic rabbit skin flaps.	Rabbit epigastric skin flaps were subjected to 21 h of ischaemia at 25 degrees C. In the first 40 min of reperfusion the flaps were infused intraarterially with either Hanks' balanced salt solution (controls), chicken CGRP or a derivative DADA-CGRP. Skin biopsies and blood specimens were taken immediately before and after 1-h reperfusion. The aim was to observe the effect of CGRP derivatives on compromised skin-flap survival and to help elucidate the critical biochemical mechanisms. It was found that chicken CGRP and DADA-CGRP produced a dose-dependent increase in blood flow, significant at and above 0.1 microgram/kg, but only the 0.1 microgram/kg DADA-CGRP infusion produced a statistically significant increase in flap survival (75.1%) as compared with controls (41.6%). CGRP infusions caused significantly more rapid restoration of tissue ATP levels and resulted in a smaller rise in blood thromboxane as compared with controls. However, CGRP caused no significant change in the tissue levels of myeloperoxidase, a measure of neutrophil infiltration, and lipid peroxidation, an indicator of free-radical activity. It is concluded that intraarterial CGRP infusions to ischaemic flaps at the time of reperfusion are indicated. However, an ideal infusion solution would also need to counteract free radicals and neutrophils which are believed to also play a major role in the inflammatory response leading to flap failure.
Clinical evaluation of a potassium nitrate dentifrice for the treatment of dentinal hypersensitivity.	The effectiveness of a 5% potassium nitrate dentifrice as a daily home treatment for dentinal hypersensitivity was evaluated in a double-blind study in 36 Japanese subjects who complained of cold and/or tactile hypersensitivity. The subjects were divided into 2 groups, with 18 being given a 5% potassium nitrate dentifrice (treated group) and the other 18 a vehicle paste (control group). Both groups were instructed to brush their teeth 2 x a day. The hypersensitivity levels of the affected teeth were assessed by 2 stimuli, one tactile and the other cold air, and by the perception of pain. The results of all 3 assessment methods indicated that the potassium nitrate dentifrice significantly decreased the level of hypersensitivity at weeks 4, 8, and 12. In the treated group, a rapid decrease of positive scores for both the cold air stimulus and the subjective symptoms appeared from week 2. Although a significant decrease of the assessment score was also observed in the control group, the reduction rate of the score was much greater in the treated group by all 3 assessment methods at weeks 4, 8, and 12. Complete relief of subjective symptoms throughout the 12 weeks' examination was noted in 67% of the subjects in the treated group, but in only 6% in the control group. These results suggest the usefulness of a 5% potassium nitrate dentifrice in Japanese patients with dentinal hypersensitivity.
Probing velocity: novel approach for assessment of inflamed periodontal attachment.	Little is known about the biophysical characteristics of the dento-gingival junction in response to the development or resolution of inflammation. The Toronto automated periodontal probe (TAPP) provides an estimate of the biophysical integrity of the dento-gingival junction by measuring intrapocket probing velocity. Presence or absence of a plateau in displacement versus time plots were used to perform dichotomous analyses as a function of established parameters of inflammation. Plateaus were operationally defined as a 3 standard deviation reduction in the slope of the displacement versus time plot (probing velocity) and hence the plateau represents an increased resistance of the probe tip at the dento-gingival junction. The aim of the study was to measure the relationship between post-treatment reductions of gingival inflammation and the probability of plateau formation as measured by the TAPP. Twenty-nine subjects exhibiting gingival inflammation were provided with periodontal therapy consisting of subgingival scaling and root planing. Over a 2-month sampling period, 6 sites from each subject were monitored and these sites exhibited wide variations of inflammation. Logistic regression revealed a significant relationship between the probability of plateau formation and treatment (P = 0.002), plaque index (P = 0.002), the increased severity levels of gingival index (P > 0.05), or bleeding index (P > 0.05). The probability of plateau formation decreased with higher levels of crevicular fluid flow but there was no dependence of plateau formation on probing depth (P > 0.55). These data indicate a direct relationship between improved measures of clinical health and increased resistance to probe penetration near the base of the pocket.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A randomized trial comparing perioperative chemotherapy and surgery with surgery alone in resectable stage IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer.	Patients with resectable stage IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer have a low survival rate following standard surgical treatment. Nonrandomized trials in which induction chemotherapy or a combination of chemotherapy and radiation prior to surgery were used to treat patients with regionally advanced primary cancers have suggested that survival is improved when compared with treatment by surgery alone.
Cytoplasmic accumulation of p53 protein: an independent prognostic indicator in colorectal adenocarcinomas.	Aberrations of the p53 gene (also known as TP53) frequently lead to the synthesis of mutant proteins that accumulate in the nuclei and/or cytoplasm of neoplastic cells. Intracellular p53 protein accumulation may be an unfavorable prognostic parameter in breast, lung, ovarian, gastric, and colorectal cancers. Specific classes of p53 gene mutations, assayed by characteristic subcellular p53 protein accumulation patterns, may be useful prognostic indicators.
Sector resection with or without postoperative radiotherapy for stage I breast cancer: five-year results of a randomized trial. Uppsala-Orebro Breast Cancer Study Group.	The effectiveness of routine postoperative irradiation following breast-conserving treatment of breast cancer has not previously been assessed in randomized clinical trials that have taken place in settings where mammography has been a major pathway to diagnosis or that have followed patients treated surgically by sector resection.
Role of intraoperative assessment of lymph node metastasis and serosal invasion in patients with gastric cancer.	The clinical diagnoses of nodal status (N) and tumor invasion (T) were performed intraoperatively during 1499 consecutive operations for gastric carcinoma and compared with subsequent pathologic diagnoses. An accurate macroscopic diagnosis of N stage was difficult; overall accuracy was only 56.6%. Intraoperative assessment of T stage (particularly of serosal invasion) was correct for 93.2% of early stages of the disease with invasion confined to the mucosa or submucosa (pT1) when the pathologist assessed the T stage in the resected specimen, for 95.6% of advanced tumors invading the serosa (pT3), but for tumors of an intermediate stage with invasion involving the muscularis propria or the subserosa (pT2) in only 41.9% of cases. Macroscopic overestimation occurred in 58.1% of cases with pT2 tumors, which were characterized by carcinomas in the upper third of the stomach, tumors larger than 5 cm, carcinomas of the ulcerating type, differentiated adenocarcinomas, tumors invading the subserosa, and those accompanied by lymph node metastasis or liver metastasis. The overestimated group had a significantly poorer prognosis than the correctly assessed cases (P < 0.05). Since multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the significant risk factor related to the inaccurate intraoperative assessment of T stage was tumor size, the error in diagnosis may correlate with a greater degree of tumor spread. Surgeons should decide their therapeutic approach at the time of surgery on the basis of their intraoperative assessment of tumor spread. We recommend extensive surgery followed by adequate chemotherapy when serosal invasion is suspected at surgery.
Limited benefit of electrophysiological studies during dorsal rhizotomy.	Using a formula for standard deviation and several assumptions, the potential benefit of electrophysiological recording (ER) during dorsal rhizotomy for cerebral palsy is calculated and expressed in a ratio, the electrophysiological recording benefit ratio (ERBR). ERBR is approximately 1.1 in most of the examples, but other factors may reduce this ratio. Severing an additional rootlet appears to be a viable alternative to ER in most of the examples. Advantages of dorsal rhizotomy without ER include reduced expense and operative time. Prospective studies are recommended to evaluate further the benefit of ER during dorsal rhizotomy. If stimulation of dorsal rootlets is abandoned during dorsal rhizotomy, stimulation of whole dorsal and ventral roots may still be necessary to prevent inadvertent severing of motor fibers.
A comparative in vitro study on fixation of sagittal split osteotomies with Würzburg screws, Champy miniplates, and Biofix (biodegradable) rods.	A bilateral sagittal split osteotomy was performed on seven fresh cadaver mandibles. Three different systems of fixation were mechanically tested on 14 sites. Tensile diagrams were obtained in which the (offset-) yield point was measured. This resulted in mean yield stresses of 199 N for bi-cortical self-tapping screws (n = 6), 49 N for miniplates with monocortical screws (n = 5), and 113 N for bi-cortical biodegradable rods (n = 3).
Tamoxifen and bone metabolism in postmenopausal low-risk breast cancer patients: a randomized study.	This trial was undertaken to evaluate the effect of adjuvant tamoxifen on bone metabolism in postmenopausal women undergoing surgery for low-risk breast cancer.
The diagnosis of periodontal conditions associated with HIV infection.	Objective, reliable, and valid diagnostic criteria are required for studies of HIV-associated periodontal conditions. A set of diagnostic criteria were devised based on a literature review and the clinical experience of the authors. Validity was assessed by comparison with clinical photographs and the criteria were evaluated and refined for ease of use and objectivity. To assess the reliability of the criteria, 9 experienced examiners were shown 20 clinical photographs accompanied by brief vignettes of clinical information. Each examiner was asked to identify signs evident in a particular area of the photograph and to record a diagnosis. Five examiners were then trained and calibrated in the use of the criteria. Finally, all 9 examiners were shown the original 20 photographs and asked to identify signs and record diagnoses. The examiners showed only fair reliability in the recognition of clinical signs, made diagnoses intuitively, and had only fair agreement on the diagnosis of periodontal diseases. The inter-examiner reliability of examiners trained and calibrated in the use of the criteria increased and was greater than among untrained examiners. Rigid diagnostic criteria are essential in epidemiologic studies. Inter-examiner reliability will be increased if examiners are trained in their use and calibrated in the recognition of clinical signs. Diagnostic criteria should be modified as understanding of the diseases they classify increases. The proposed criteria will enhance the value of studies of HIV-associated periodontal changes and will contribute to that understanding.
Periodontal therapy in young adults with severe generalized periodontitis.	This study evaluated the effect of periodontal therapy on clinical and microbiological parameters in 23 subjects with severe generalized early onset periodontitis. Therapy consisted of oral hygiene instruction and root planing and scaling, followed 3 months later by open flap debridement. Subjects were monitored for both clinical measures and levels of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromas gingivalis as identified by indirect immunofluoresence. Clinical and microbiological evaluations were done at the start of the study, 3 months after the completion of root planing and scaling and 3 months after open flap debridement. Mean probing depth was reduced by both root planing and scaling and open flap debridement and the level of reduction demonstrated by both phases of therapy was similar to reductions found in studies that utilized subjects with chronic adult periodontitis. In contrast, reductions in attachment level due to the two phases of therapy, demonstrated in previous studies of subjects with adult periodontitis were not found in the young adult subjects with severe periodontal disease utilized in this study. Levels of A. actinomycetemcomitans were not significantly affected by root planing and scaling, but were reduced by open flap debridement. P. gingivalis was virtually eliminated by root planing and scaling, demonstrating that the two bacterial types respond differently to periodontal therapy. These changes in microbiological parameters were similar to those found in studies of localized juvenile periodontitis subjects, where surgery or antibiotics have been shown to be necessary to reduce levels of A. actinomycetemcomitans.
Esophageal dysfunction as a cause of angina pectoris ("linked angina"): does it exist?	The differentiation between cardiac and esophageal causes of retrosternal chest pain is notoriously difficult. Theoretically, cardiac and esophageal causes may coexist. It has also been reported that gastroesophageal reflux and esophageal motor abnormalities may elicit myocardial ischemia and chest pain, a phenomenon called linked angina pectoris. The aim of this study was to assess the incidence of esophageal abnormalities as a cause of retrosternal chest pain in patients with previously documented coronary artery disease.
Errors in transfusion medicine. Detection, analysis, frequency, and prevention.	The Mayo Clinic (Rochester, Minn) Division of Transfusion Medicine evaluated the effect of methods of error detection, analysis, and prevention on the rate of errors occurring from 1982 through 1992. We defined an error as any deviation from the standard operating procedure. Twenty-four standard operating procedures were monitored for errors that related to donor processing, testing of donor blood, patient testing, and transfusion. The estimate of the overall error rate and 95% confidence interval fluctuated between 20 and 30 per 10(4) procedures. The transcription error rate declined from 21 to six per 10(4) procedures as a result of changes to systems using computer-generated labels and bar codes. We concluded that when errors are recognized, and appropriate system changes are made, these errors can be prevented.
Residual orthodontic treatment need in a sample of 15- and 16-year-olds.	This study investigated the residual unmet orthodontic need, both normative and perceived, in young adults who had passed the age at which orthodontic treatment would have normally commenced. A total of 506 15- and 16-year-olds attending eight secondary schools were screened by a single trained examiner using the 'Index of Orthodontic Treatment Need' (IOTN). There were 154 (30.4%) subjects classified as being in need of orthodontic treatment using IOTN and 82 of these (16% of the sample) were found to be in need of orthodontic treatment but had no recollection of orthodontic treatment ever being discussed with them. Children with malocclusion, who had received no orthodontic advice, came from across the range of socio-economic groups, were more likely to be male, and were less likely to be happy with their appearance than their unaffected peers.
Statistical analysis of length of productive life for dairy cows of the Normande breed.	The length of productive life of 103,214 Normande cows milked from 1979 to 1989 in purebred herds was analyzed using a mixed Weibull model: their probability of being culled, or hazard function, was supposed to be the product of a baseline Weibull hazard function and explanatory variables that were log-linear and time-dependent. Fixed effects that may have an impact on culling rate were successively added to the model. Two random effects, a herd-year and a sire effect, were also included. The dispersion parameter of the log-gamma prior distributions assumed for these effects was estimated maximizing a marginal posterior density obtained after algebraic integration of the corresponding random effect. The other effects and the Weibull parameter could not be integrated out easily. The probability of being culled was not changed by age at first calving but increased with stage of lactation. It also increased for low producing cows and for herds of decreasing size, especially during the 3 mo preceding the end of the period on which yearly milk production is calculated for the European Community quota system. This last phenomenon seems to be crucial for proper statistical and genetic analysis of length of productive life. The estimated variances of the herd-year and sire effects indicated a large influence of these effects on culling rate. Under certain assumptions, the standard deviation of sire effects can be assessed at > .5 expected complete lactations. This value is not reduced by consideration of differences in milk production of the cows.
Aggregating social behavior into person models: perceiver-induced consistency.	Two experiments explored the role of perceivers (judges) in aggregating social behavior into impressions. In Experiment 1, it was predicted and found that judges influence impressions (i.e., eye-of-the-beholder effects) not only because they disagree on how to interpret single acts but because they aggregate multiple acts in unique ways to arrive at idiosyncratic impressions. Using D. A. Kenny's (1991) general model of accuracy and consensus, it was found that judges perceived much greater consistency in the behavior of targets across situations when they were asked to aggregate the behavior than when they were not. Differential interpretation of single acts did not change as a function of aggregating behavior. This aggregation process was characterized as the construction of models of persons. In Experiment 2, the concept of person models was explored further, and it was argued that perceivers develop these models on the basis of what is viewed as the central concept of a target. For any given target, a limited number of models can be identified, and different perceivers develop different models. The particular model formed has implications for the perceiver's underlying memory representation and the perceived personality profile of the target.
Relative efficiencies of the maximum-likelihood, neighbor-joining, and maximum-parsimony methods when substitution rate varies with site.	The relative efficiencies of the maximum-likelihood (ML), neighbor-joining (NJ), and maximum-parsimony (MP) methods in obtaining the correct topology and in estimating the branch lengths for the case of four DNA sequences were studied by computer simulation, under the assumption either that there is variation in substitution rate among different nucleotide sites or that there is no variation. For the NJ method, several different distance measures (Jukes-Cantor, Kimura two-parameter, and gamma distances) were used, whereas for the ML method three different transition/transversion ratios (R) were used. For the MP method, both the standard unweighted parsimony and the dynamically weighted parsimony methods were used. The results obtained are as follows: (1) When the R value is high, dynamically weighted parsimony is more efficient than unweighted parsimony in obtaining the correct topology. (2) However, both weighted and unweighted parsimony methods are generally less efficient than the NJ and ML methods even in the case where the MP method gives a consistent tree. (3) When all the assumptions of the ML method are satisfied, this method is slightly more efficient than the NJ method. However, when the assumptions are not satisfied, the NJ method with gamma distances is slightly better in obtaining the correct topology than is the ML method. In general, the two methods show more or less the same performance. The NJ method may give a correct topology even when the distance measures used are not unbiased estimators of nucleotide substitutions. (4) Branch length estimates of a tree with the correct topology are affected more easily than topology by violation of the assumptions of the mathematical model used, for both the ML and the NJ methods. Under certain conditions, branch lengths are seriously overestimated or underestimated. The MP method often gives serious underestimates for certain branches. (5) Distance measures that generate the correct topology, with high probability, do not necessarily give good estimates of branch lengths. (6) The likelihood-ratio test and the confidence-limit test, in Felsenstein's DNAML, for examining the statistical of branch length estimates are quite sensitive to violation of the assumptions and are generally too liberal to be used for actual data. Rzhetsky and Nei's branch length test is less sensitive to violation of the assumptions than is Felsenstein's test. (7) When the extent of sequence divergence is < or = 5% and when > or = 1,000 nucleotides are used, all three methods show essentially the same efficiency in obtaining the correct topology and in estimating branch lengths.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Estimation of evolutionary distance for reconstructing molecular phylogenetic trees.	The most commonly used measure of evolutionary distance in molecular phylogenetics is the number of nucleotide substitutions per site. However, this number is not necessarily most efficient for reconstructing a phylogenetic tree. In order to evaluate the accuracy of evolutionary distance, D(t), for obtaining the correct tree topology, an accuracy index, A(t), was proposed. This index is defined as D'(t)/square root of[D(t)], where D'(t) is the first derivative of D(t) with respect to evolutionary time and V[D(t)] is the sampling variance of evolutionary distance. Using A(t), namely, finding the condition under which A(t) gives the maximum value, we can obtain an evolutionary distance which is efficient for obtaining the correct topology. Under the assumption that the transversional changes do not occur as frequently as the transitional changes, we obtained the evolutionary distances which are expected to give the correct topology more often than are the other distances.
Use of statistical control charts to assess outcomes of medical care: pneumonia in Medicare patients.	Detection of nonrandom variation in outcomes with statistical control charts is at the heart of quality improvement techniques. The authors examined the charts' ability to detect variations in outcome of pneumonia. They surveyed Medicare claims data for DRG 89, pneumonia with complications or co-morbidities, from November 1988 through October 1991 at 20 Illinois hospitals with the most Medicare discharges for DRG 89. Control charts were constructed on five outcomes--mean length of stay, range of length of stay, mortality, readmissions, and complications. Standard techniques from industrial statistics were used to construct the historical means and control limits derived from 2 years of data, to plot the monthly samples from the 3rd year of data and to score the control charts for nonrandom variation at less than 1% probability. The observed number of control charts with nonrandom variation was 33 of 100; the expected number was 9.18 (p < 0.0001). Nineteen hospitals had 1 to 3 control charts with nonrandom variation on the five outcomes, whereas only one hospital had none. The number of control charts with nonrandom variation per hospital did not correlate with hospital size, occupancy, teaching status, location, or payer-mix. Statistical control charts provide simple tools for identification of nonrandom variation in outcomes. To the extent that these variations can be related to quality issues, the charts will be useful for quality management.
Risk factors for intracranial hemorrhage in outpatients taking warfarin.	To explore the rational use of anticoagulants, especially among the elderly, balancing antithrombotic efficacy and risk for hemorrhage. Previous prospective studies have not provided powerful assessments of risk factors for intracranial hemorrhage, the dominant complication in reversing the anticoagulant decision.
Repeated measurements and multiple comparisons in cardiovascular research.	In cardiovascular research, experiments are commonly performed in which repeated measurements are made in the same individual at predetermined intervals of time or at ascending levels of stimulus or dose of drug. The goal is usually to test the effects of treatments or disease state on the time course of the response, or on the stimulus-response relationship. Since the passage of time or the order of stimuli or doses is fixed, statistical analysis of the results of such experiments is associated with an excessive risk of false positive interferences (type I error) unless special precautions are taken. The nature of the statistical problems associated with repeated measures experimental designs, and several solutions to them, have been discussed. An approach much favoured by cardiovascular investigators is to make multiple pairwise contrasts between treatments at each time or dose, or between times or doses within each treatment. This greatly inflates the risk of type I error unless special precautions are taken, and the information provided by making multiple contrasts is of limited value. I believe that repeated measures analysis of variance, with a correction for multisample asphericity, usually provides the most informative and least biased test of the biological hypotheses proposed by cardiovascular investigators. Other analytical techniques, such as comparing areas under curves and regression analysis, have also been discussed. Summary recommendations are given in the table.
Interlaboratory comparison of neuropathology assessments in Alzheimer's disease: a study of the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD)	Concerns about intercenter variation in methods and interpretation prompted CERAD investigators to examine standardization of the neuropathological assessment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Contiguous frontal lobe sections derived from autopsy brains of eight patients clinically diagnosed as having probable AD and two cognitively normal individuals were distributed to 24 neuropathologists from 18 medical centers in the United States and Canada. Using their routine staining method(s), neuropathologists determined the rank order of severity of AD neuropathology in these cases, as well as semiquantitative and quantitative senile plaque and neurofibrillary tangle frequencies. Ranking of the ten cases revealed 75% inter-rater reliability among the 24 raters. Semiquantitative analyses showed reasonable inter-rater agreement, whereas quantitative measures yielded significant differences between raters for plaque and tangle counts (p < 0.0001). These differences reflected variation in stain sensitivity, staining technique (even when the same stain was used), and interpretation of the histological findings. Ratings on the cases with the highest proportions of diffuse plaques showed the greatest dependence upon stain sensitivity and variability in interpretation. This study indicates that greater attention to quality improvement is needed for the neuropathological evaluation of AD, particularly when pooling data in multicenter studies such as CERAD.
Equations for InsP3 receptor-mediated [Ca2+]i oscillations derived from a detailed kinetic model: a Hodgkin-Huxley like formalism.	The nine-variable De Young-Keizer model (1992) for [Ca2+]i oscillations mediated by InsP3 receptor channels in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane is analyzed and reduced to a two-variable system. The different time scales in the three basic channel gating processes, namely InsP3 regulation, Ca2+ activation, and Ca2+ inactivation, are revealed and characterized. The method of multiple scales is used in solving the equations on a succession of faster time scales and reducing them to a 2D system. The reduced system, (Vcy/fcy) dC/dt = -P1P3Rm3 infinity h3(C-C0)-PL(C-C0)-Jpump(C); dh/dt = (h infinity-h)/tau h, is analogous in form to the Hodgkin-Huxley equations for plasma membrane electrical excitability. [Ca2+]i dynamics in this model thus involve ER membrane-associated excitability. The reduced system has a bifurcation diagram almost identical to that of the original system and retains the most important dynamic features of the latter. The analysis also shows that the reduced system becomes simpler when the different gating processes are more independent from each other, i.e. when the rates for Ca2+ binding at the site associated with one gating process are independent of occupancy at the other two binding sites. Assuming further that binding of InsP3 does not depend on Ca2+ occupancy at the inactivation site, we obtain a "minimal" form yet retain significant ability to reproduce experimental observations.
Statistical significance testing in the American Journal of Epidemiology, 1970-1990.	Despite persistent controversy over statistical significance testing and the obligation for all researchers to adopt some position on the issue, until now, practices of epidemiologists have not been examined thoroughly. Articles in the American Journal of Epidemiology around the years 1970, 1980, and 1990 were evaluated and divided into infectious disease epidemiology, cancer epidemiology, and cardiovascular disease epidemiology, with a minimum of 25 articles per topic area and time period. Presentation of significance test results and confidence intervals was evaluated in the abstracts, results text, and results tables, as was the degree of reliance on significance testing in the discussion section. Significance testing grew markedly in infectious disease epidemiology and was consistently high in cardiovascular disease and cancer epidemiology. Confidence intervals were virtually absent in 1970 and became ubiquitous (particularly in cancer epidemiology) by 1990, when the most common practice was to provide confidence intervals in results tables and to emphasize statistical significance tests in results text. Reliance on statistical significance tests in interpretation grew steadily in infectious disease, sustained a high level in cardiovascular disease, and declined after 1980 in cancer epidemiology. At present, dual presentation of confidence intervals and statistical test results is dominant.
Malnutrition and gastrointestinal dysfunction as prognostic factors for survival in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy.	To describe the evolution of nutritional and neurological complications in a Swedish population of patients with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy, and to identify prognostic factors and useful tests for monitoring the progress of the disease.
Interpreting magnetic fields of the brain: minimum norm estimates.	The authors have applied estimation theory to the problem of determining primary current distributions from measured neuromagnetic fields. In this procedure, essentially nothing is assumed about the source currents, except that they are spatially restricted to a certain region. Simulation experiments show that the results can describe the structure of the current flow fairly well. By increasing the number of measurements, the estimate can be made more localised. The current distributions may be also used as an interpolation and an extrapolation for the measured field patterns.
Minimum-norm estimation in a boundary-element torso model.	The paper deals with the bioelectric and biomagnetic inverse problems. The authors present a method to estimate primary-current distributions in a homogeneous, realistically shaped boundary-element torso model. The reconstruction surface is triangulated to keep the procedure computationally feasible. The minimum-norm estimate is computed on the basis of separate electric and magnetic signals, as well as from combined data. The method can be used both for heart and brain studies. Simulation results for current-dipole sources in a homogeneous realistic torso are discussed.
Spectra of data sampled at frequency-modulated rates in application to cardiovascular signals: Part 1. Analytical derivation of the spectra.	Beat-to-beat cardiovascular signals, e.g. a series of systolic pressure values, can be considered as time series which are pulse amplitude modulated (PAM) and pulse frequency modulated (PFM). The latter process, due to variations in heart rate, causes the series to become non-uniformly spaced in time. If PAM is to be quantified by spectral analysis, the influence of PFM must be known. An analytical expression is therefore derived for the spectrum of sinusoids which are sampled according to the output event series of a linear integral pulse frequency modulator (IPFM). We conclude that two spectral components arise at the difference and sum of the PFM and PAM frequencies, fp +/- fx, with amplitudes proportional to the PFM modulation depth. These components appear as a DC component and as a first harmonic if both modulating frequencies are equal. In addition, a cluster of spectral components appears around the mean pulse frequency fo (i.e. mean heart rate), at frequencies fo-nfp +/- fx, which may leak into the signal band. From these theoretical considerations, we conclude that the amplitude spectrum of a sinusoidally varying systolic blood pressure series can contain up to 20-30% spurious components, owing to the heart rate modulation process.
An evolutionary approach to folding small alpha-helical proteins that uses sequence information and an empirical guiding fitness function.	Three short protein sequences have been guided by computer to folds resembling their crystal structures. Initially, peptide fragment conformations ranging in size from 9 to 25 residues were selected from a database of known protein structures. A fragment was selected if it was compatible with a segment of the sequence to be folded, as judged by three-dimensional profile scores. By linking the selected fragment conformations together, hundreds of trial structures were generated of the same length and sequence as the protein to be folded. These starting trial structures were then improved by an evolutionary algorithm. Selection pressure for improving the structures was provided by an energy function that was designed to guide the conformational search procedure toward the correct structure. We find that by evolution of only 400 structures for fewer than 1400 generations, the overall fold of some small helical proteins can be computed from the sequence, with deviations from observed structures of 2.5-4.0 A for C alpha atoms.
Evaluation of acid-base disorders in dairy cows using principal component analysis and empiric equations.	Acid-base disorders were studied in two groups of dairy cows. According to conventional interpretation in the 1st group of dairy cows (n = 10) the results of the acid-base parameters indicated respiratory alkalosis and in the 2nd group (n = 10) metabolic acidosis. The data of the two groups were examined using principal component analysis. So called "reduced variables"--principal components for each animal were calculated. Each experimental animal was projected in the coordinates of 3 principal components K1, K2 and K3. The components K1, K2 and K3 comprised a 90% data variability. The importance of variables for a dividing of groups (1 and 2) was quantified. The most important were pCO2, (HCO3)' and BE. It was proved according to mathematico-empiric equations that dairy cows of 1st group suffered from acute respiratory alkalosis. In the 2nd group of dairy cows the combined acid-base disorder was confirmed using the equations for metabolic acidosis and chronic respiratory acidosis. The use of PCA method and empiric equations for acid-base imbalances shows the possibilities for gaining new knowledge how to make the diagnostic process more exact.
Measurement variation in method comparison studies: an empirical examination.	Procedures commonly used in rehabilitation research to analyze data from method comparison studies were examined. A simulation study was conducted in which different types of measurement variation were introduced to a reference set of range of motion (ROM) values. The test ROM data included individual data sets with random variation, alternate variation, constant variation, and proportional variation. Comparisons were made between original ROM reference values and simulated test ROM data. The statistical comparisons involved Pearson product-moment correlation, least square regression, t tests, and intraclass correlation coefficients. The individual data sets were also presented graphically using a method referred to as limits of agreement. The analyses revealed Pearson product-moment correlations, t tests, and other commonly used statistical procedures were not sensitive to different types of measurement variation in evaluating the results of method comparison investigations. The findings indicate that the limits of agreement technique, based on plotting difference scores against mean values, provided the most accurate estimation of measurement error. The advantages and limitations of various procedures to analyze agreement between rehabilitation assessment methods are described.
Protecting the reproductive health of the family.	Problems of ecology do not affect nations individually. Similarly, scientists must participate in seeking solutions to ecologic problems regardless of State borders. The sophistication of certain demographic indices, primarily those of infant and maternal mortality and of population reproduction, is a barometer of a nation's socioeconomic status and the quality of medical care. Solutions to practical problems in the field of public health are based on scientific research conducted on various problems. A task of urgent priority in Russia is to solve the problems of maintaining health, particularly reproductive, and preventing health disorders. It is the generation of the 1980s and 1990s that faces the basic difficulties of reestablishing the Russian State. We offer for our colleagues' discussion the basic directions of scientific research planned in the Russian Federation to find points of contact with respect to this problem within the framework of possible cooperation.
X-Linked hypophosphatemic rickets: a disease often unknown to affected patients.	X-Linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH) is an X-linked dominant disorder that is secondary to renal phosphate wasting. Affected individuals frequently present the following characteristics: short stature, lower-extremity deformity, bone pain, dental abscesses, enthesopathy, rickets, and osteomalacia. Since the disorder is characterized by evident phenotypic abnormalities, we hypothesized that there would be a high degree of knowledge about the disease in affected kindreds. Thus, we constructed a six-page, self-administered questionnaire to determine whether family members are, in fact, aware of their disease and properly diagnosed and treated. We also designed the survey to determine rates of symptoms thought to be associated with rickets/osteomalacia in a population with a lower referral bias than is usually seen in tertiary care centers. We administered the questionnaire to 234 study subjects (57 affected) who were members of one of three large kindreds. Although 62% of affected individuals knew they had some problem with their bones, only 22.6% were told by a physician that they had rickets or osteomalacia. This apparent lack of awareness occurred in spite of 61.1% of affected subjects complaining of bone or joint problems to their personal physician. Indeed, of those patients who had persistent complaints, only 34.5% were told they had rickets or osteomalacia. Only one patient was taking phosphate and vitamin D.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Comparison of skin-prick test assay and reverse enzyme immunoassay competition (REINA-C) for biological activity of allergens.	An in vitro technique for measuring the relative potency of allergenic extracts has been developed and compared with the dose-response skin-prick test. The in vitro technique is a modification of an ELISA based on the method of antigen capture using polystyrene microtitre wells as solid phase (REINA-competition) and is also based on a dose-response. Both methods have been applied to allergen extracts of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, Phleum pratense, Secale cereale, Lolium perenne, Plantago lanceolata, Artemisia vulgaris, Salsola kali and Parietaria judaica. For each allergen, the slope of the regression log-log dose-response lines displayed by skin-prick test and REINA-C does not show a statistically significant difference, being parallel (P < 0.001), and indicating that the allergen-ligand binding kinetics are identical in both methods.
Designing a biological monitoring program to assess community exposure to chromium: conclusions of an expert panel.	The possible benefits of biological monitoring of large groups of people potentially exposed to environmental contaminants has become an area of much interest in recent years. Because chromite-ore processing residue has been found in some soils in northern New Jersey, urinary chromium monitoring of people in the community was evaluated as a potentially useful tool. In an attempt to identify those who could be exposed and to quantify the magnitude of exposure to the chromium in these soils, the New Jersey Department of Health (NJDOH) initiated a public health screening project. In 1992, the NJDOH proposed to evaluate over 4000 people who lived or worked near these sites. Volunteers were administered a questionnaire and were given a limited physical examination, and a single spot urine sample was collected. Because of the difficulties in using urinary chromium to assess low-level exposure and the potential implications of any regulatory decisions that could be based on the results of this project, a panel of experts was convened to evaluate the protocol. The panel consisted of five scientists and physicians with expertise in toxicology, dermatology, epidemiology, biological monitoring, and analytical chemistry. Like a World Health Organization group, the panel concluded that although urine biomonitoring can be useful in evaluating high levels of exposure to chromium, it is not reliable for assessing low-level exposure similar to that which may have occurred in northern New Jersey. The panel also noted that when urinary biomonitoring is to be used to assess the public's possible exposure, a large number of precautions must be taken to ensure the accuracy and usefulness of the results. The single most important recommendation was to collect a second, and perhaps a third, spot urine (or 24-h urine) sample before concluding that a person may be routinely overexposed. These suggestions are applicable to designing a biomonitoring program for nearly any environmental contaminant to which a community may be exposed. A review of scientific literature associated with biological monitoring of chromium is provided.
Quantifying periodic activity in central pattern generators: the crayfish swimmeret.	Experimental recordings from neurons are generally difficult to quantify. Spike patterns and membrane potential cycles are often compared qualitatively and are hence limited by human resolution and judgement. This paper describes a statistical method for quantifying individual spike patterns and membrane potential fluctuations in oscillating systems, allowing quantification of successive 'individual' bursts. The neuronal activities of the network can therefore be subject to more extensive analyses and comparisons. Principal-component analysis was used to extract the principal components from a sequence of bursts recorded in vitro from the crayfish (Pacifasticus leniusculus) swimmeret. The principal component coefficients were correlated with intuitive biological concepts such as burst displacement, number of spikes in a burst, and burst width. The bursting of both interneurones and motor neurones were found to be modulated by some unidentified oscillator that displaced the bursts in time. The amplitude of the time displacements was significant, i.e., of the order of the bursting period (1.5 s), and the period of the oscillation was approximately 200 bursts. The strength of the method is that this feature was detected without any prior suspicion of its existence.
Rising lung cancer mortality in the United States, 1968-1988: the manifestation of altered disease competition.	Lung cancer mortality is increasing. The strong association between cigarette smoking and lung cancer is universally acknowledged. Consequently, rising lung cancer mortality is commonly attributed to cigarette smoking. This chain of logic has resulted in a remarkable evolution of public attitudes toward cigarette smoking and in increased regulation of smoking at work and in public places. However, longitudinal Gompertzian analysis indicates that the major force increasing lung cancer mortality in the United States is the declining competitiveness of other causes of death, particularly ischemic heart disease and stroke. Indeed, this analysis demonstrates that the "environmental" influence upon lung cancer mortality began to decline in the United States in the mid-1970s, supporting the effectiveness of programs aimed at decreasing tobacco use.
Measuring intrasubject variability: use of the jacknife in doubly labeled water experiments.	The doubly labeled water technique measures energy expenditure; however, very little has appeared in the literature regarding estimation of the intrasubject variation. By use of a statistical resampling procedure called the jackknife, the standard deviation of the determination of energy expenditure in each subject is evaluated. Jackknife methods exploit the regression techniques that are already used with the doubly labeled water technique and are very easy to implement. Estimates of sample sizes for future experiments can easily be done with the jackknife. These formulas give the number of determinations of isotopic enrichment of hydrogen and oxygen over time that are needed to achieve a given degree of accuracy in estimating energy expenditure. An example with two human subjects illustrates the methodology of the jackknife.
Statistical study of the results of radial keratotomy]	The statistical study of 384 R.K. performed by the same surgeon shows that in 82% of R.K., preoperative myopia was between -1.5 to -6 diopters and in 77.5% of R.K., postoperative refraction was between -1 to +1. The 90% confidence interval was between -2 to +1 for all preoperative myopias and was the best when preoperative myopia was between -0.5 to -3 diopters (-1 to +1 D). The study of the stability and security shows that this surgical technique is stable and gives a good security.
Probability studies on the variations of anterior corneal astigmatism]	The probability method of analysis of astigmatism variations respects both astigmatism components, quantity and axis. The two random variable model that we introduce here analyses cylinder variations and axial variations. After describing the contingency table and the probability table. Expectation of each component and its confidence interval are calculated together with the variance and the standard deviation. Covariance and correlation are calculated. If we want to compare different groups we test cylinders with cylinders and axes with axes. This method does not distort reality and is applicable to the semi meridians from 0 degree to 360 degrees. Only large samples of patients can be studied by this method.
Vectorial models for analyzing variations of anterior corneal astigmatism]	Several studies have analysed postoperative or spontaneous variations in astigmatism. The methods of quantification of these variations, frequently used in these studies, are based on different ways of calculating: subtraction, vectorial or polar methods: Naylor, Jaffe and Clayman, Cravy, Naeser, Russell et al. and recently, Holladay et al. Although these methods have the advantage of taking into account the axial component of astigmatism and are useful for a single patient, they have many problems and they are more and more numerous (five in the last three years). We have computerized these formulae on a personal computer and studied their performances when the cylinder power decreases without modification of the axes, when the axes are modified without modification of the cylinder power and when the two axes change with the same angular difference. These calculations demonstrate that these formulae are not linear and introduce statistical errors before the statistical decision tests. Moreover, their application is only possible for evaluation of astigmatism axes between 0 degree to 180 degrees and not for semi meridians and corneal topography.
Minimum evolution and goodness-of-fit.	Two criteria are much used to evaluate phylogenetic trees constructed from distance data: goodness-of-fit and tree length. The exhaustive study of trees connecting four taxa shows that in some instances there is a discrepancy between these two criteria. The largest tree may be the one that best fits the distances at the cost of a negative interior branch length, whereas the shortest tree always has the largest interior branch length and is the most supported by nucleotid configurations.
Selecting an interim analysis procedure.	Motivations for undertaking interim analyses differ, as do the methods proposed by different authors. This article evaluates five interim analysis procedures with regard to different requirements. The five procedures differ with respect to concern for the presence or absence of a true treatment effect. One provides interim criteria only for accepting Ho (terminating due to insufficient evidence of a true treatment effect), two provide criteria only for rejecting H(o), and the others provide criteria for either accepting or rejecting H(o). A computer program was developed to simulate applications of the interim analyses to sampling data. Actual Type I error probabilities, power, probabilities of early termination, and expected sample sizes resulting from the different interim analysis procedures are compared. One-sided and two-sided tests, equal and unequal interim sample segments, and interim alterations in the sample size or research design are considered. Results should be helpful in selecting a method that satisfies particular interests.
Characterisation of the neovascularisation process in diabetic retinopathy by means of fractal geometry: diagnostic implications.	The neovascularisation formation and regression process of the peripheral retina in diabetic retinopathy was studied by means of fractal analysis. The fractal dimension of the local retinal vessel pattern was calculated to be significantly lower before formation of relevant neovascularisations than 2.5 years later, after formation of strong preretinal neovascularisations. Another year later the new vessels had regressed partially and the fractal dimension was again significantly reduced. This behaviour is almost independent of the representation of the vessel thickness during calculation. Since the retinal vasculature is a fractal, the fractal dimension appears as the "natural" measure of proliferative retinal vessel changes. It is demonstrated that the fractal dimension can be applied to characterise proliferative diabetic retinopathy. These features offer the possibility for computer-driven ("automated") quantitative characterisation of the treatment effect in proliferative diabetic retinopathy and possibly automated detection of proliferative diabetic retinopathy in the future. The limitations of the method are discussed.
The "Toward Excellence in Care" program: a statewide indicator project.	The "Toward Excellence in Care" program was launched by Connecticut hospitals and physicians in 1988 to develop and use quality-of-care indicators for use in quality improvement.
Analysis of mortality rate from carcinoma of prostate.	Age-specific mortality from carcinoma of the prostate was analyzed by drawing a line between the value at age 52 years and that at age 87. Slope of the line was relatively constant for the pooled years 1962-1966, 1967-1971 and 1972-1976 (maximum variation from the mean of 4.5%). However, the slope was 17.7% greater for the period 1977-1981 and 29.8% over the prior mean in 1987-1992. This was explored by two models. Mortality versus age was well described by a power function, with an increase in slope noted in the mid-1970s. An exponential growth model was also utilized and revealed the existence of a 'change point' around the year 1975. Hence, two models are available for further exploring the increase in age-specific mortality from carcinoma of the prostate which occurred in the mid-1970 period.
The effect of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) in the treatment of obesity by means of the Simeons therapy: a criteria-based meta-analysis.	1. A meta-analysis was conducted to assess if there is scientific ground for the use of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of obesity. 2. Published papers relating to eight controlled and 16 uncontrolled trials that measured the effect of HCG in the treatment of obesity were traced by computer-aided search and citation tracking. 3. The trials were scored for the quality of the methods (based on four main categories: study population, interventions, measurement of effect, and data presentation and analysis) and the main conclusion of author(s) with regard to weight-loss, fat-redistribution, hunger, and feeling of well-being. 4. Methodological scores ranged from 16 to 73 points (maximum score 100), suggesting that most studies were of poor methodological quality. Of the 12 studies scoring 50 or more points, one reported that HCG was a useful adjunct. The studies scoring 50 or more points were all controlled. 5. We conclude that there is no scientific evidence that HCG is effective in the treatment of obesity; it does not bring about weight-loss of fat-redistribution, nor does it reduce hunger or induce a feeling of well-being.
Octreotide treatment of carcinoid syndrome: analysis of published dose-titration data.	Octreotide has proven therapeutically effective in carcinoid syndrome, but the rarity of carcinoid tumors has hampered detailed dose-ranging studies. This study analysed published dose-titration data on octreotide use in carcinoid patients to (a) investigate the relation between octreotide dose and efficacy and (b) establish octreotide dosing recommendations for maximum therapeutic benefit.
Using loss of heterozygosity data in affected pedigree member linkage tests.	Linkage analysis can be used to test the hypothesis that a marker locus of known location segregates independently from a presumed disease gene. One way to test this hypothesis is to measure the similarity of marker alleles among pairs of relatives affected with the disease. When the disease under consideration is cancer, it is possible to take advantage of the marker alleles in tumors to revise the similarity measure obtained from the observations made in constitutional tissue. Only cancers that arise through the model of recessive oncogenesis are amenable to this revised analysis. This model postulates that cancer is caused by somatic genetic changes which result in the loss of one or both copies of a normal allele at a tumor suppressor locus. If an individual's inherited genotype is heterozygous at the marker locus, the model of recessive oncogenesis suggests that we may observe loss of constitutional heterozygosity at the marker locus in the tumor. In this report, we how how to incorporate this loss of heterozygosity data into affected pedigree member linkage tests. The revised procedure is illustrated using data obtained from relatives with breast cancer. Substantial improvement in the power to reject the different chromosome hypothesis is obtained when loss of heterozygosity is observed in multiple relatives with the same marker alleles retained in the tumors.
Umbilical cord fluoride serum levels may not reflect fetal fluoride status.	To evaluate the reliability of fluoride levels in the umbilical cord as reflecting neonate fluoride status.
Statistical procedures for impact resistance testing at increased drop-ball heights.	Impact resistance testing of prescription eyewear and nonprescription sunglasses is normally performed at a drop-ball height of 50 in (1.27 m). This paper presents a statistics-based testing method that uses increased drop-ball heights.
Comparison of fixation disparity curve variables measured with the Sheedy Disparometer and the Wesson Fixation Disparity Card.	Previous studies suggest differences in the fixation disparity curves obtained with the Sheedy Disparometer and the Wesson Fixation Disparity Card, the two most commonly used methods for measuring fixation disparity. In one study the investigators proposed that the differences do not exist for subgroups divided by phoria. The purpose of this paper is to try to clarify this issue by use of two large sets of data.
The costs of diabetes-related lower extremity amputations in the Netherlands.	Diabetes mellitus is a common problem in the Netherlands and in the rest of the world. A complication seen in association with diabetes is peripheral neuropathy which can lead to lower extremity amputation. The purpose of this study is to identify the duration of hospital stay and the direct costs associated with diabetes-related lower extremity amputations in the Netherlands in 1992. Total direct costs included costs associated with hospital stay and the average procedure specific costs (surgeons' fees, anaesthetists' fees, and operating room fees) for the specific level of amputation. In the Netherlands in 1992, 1575 hospitalizations for 1810 diabetes-related lower extremity amputations occurred. The total number of days in the hospital for the diabetic population was 65,778 days with a mean of 41.8 days per hospitalization. Mean costs associated with diabetes-related hospitalizations for amputation were pounds 10,531 (Dfl. 28,433) per hospitalization. Persons who underwent multiple amputations during their hospitalization stayed in the hospital longer and the costs associated with these hospitalizations were higher when compared to hospitalization with a single amputation. An increase in length of stay and costs with increasing age and higher level of amputation was identified.
An assessment of the statistical procedures used in original papers published in the SAMJ during 1992.	To assess the statistical procedures used in original papers published in the SAMJ.
The nasal response to isometric exercise.	The cardiovascular response to isometric exercise is well understood. However, the response of the nasal mucosa is less well known. We have attempted to document this response in normal individuals. Ten individuals with no history of nasal disease or allergy were studied. All subjects were asked to perform sustained handgrip on the side of the obstructed nostril for a period of 5 min at 30% of maximum voluntary effort. Nasal cross-sectional area was measured on both sides of the nose using an acoustic rhinometer. The individuals were then rested for at least 30 min and the test repeated with pressure applied by the opposite hand. Statistical analysis was performed by non-parametric methods. There was a significant fall in nasal cross-sectional area on the side of exercise median change = 0.09 cm2, P < 0.01) while cross-sectional area in the contralateral nasal passage increased (median change = 0.35 cm2, P = 0.01). There was no significant differences between these results and those obtained by handgrip on the opposite side. The results indicate that isometric exercise produces nasal obstruction (isotonic exercise) and both afferent and efferent arms of this reflex are side-specific.
Measures and criterion of confidence of nerve cell impulse responses]	A new method for evaluation of phasic spike responses is proposed. It is based on defining the time interval deltat in which spikes occur after the stimuli so often that the probability of finding a similar or more "suspicious" interval when the response is known to be absent (i.e., probability of error) is minimal. The offered response measure combines on the probability basis two different parameters: the time interval deltat and the number of trials containing at least one spike in deltat. The deltat interval may have any duration and location acceptable in the physiological sense, and is not supposed to be chosen a priori. This approach has been proved to be adequate and unambiguous. A technique is also proposed for estimating the error probability without using the characteristics of distribution of interspike intervals, which for this reason can be applied to any neurone. By means of this technique a table for non-parametric estimation of significance of spike responses has been compiled.
Embryonic and postnatal growth of rat and mouse. V. Prenatal growth of organs and tissues, general principles: allometric growth, absence of growth, and the genetic regulation of the growth process.	(1) The investigation yielded several general growth principles, i.e., types of growth occurring rather frequently: (a) allometric growth, (b) a non-changing growth rate, persisting when the growth rate changes in the majority of tissues, (c) a growth rate equal to that of the whole embryo, (d) absence of growth and (e) jumps, i.e., changes in the volume or surface of organs completed within about half a day or less and probably due to changes in the cell volume or surface area; these histological changes tend to start simultaneously with the changes in growth rate. (2) Growth constants tend to have a value of about 2.0 in the prenatal period, as in the post-natal period. During development, however, their value increases slightly but significantly. (3) Further arguments are given for the mitosis-regulating model described in Part III. (4) The mitosis-regulating model combined with the general growth principles derived here and in earlier parts of this report constitute a comprehensive model for the genetiv regulation of the growth process.
Time as a factor in atmospheric sampling.	Differences in results of simultaneous air monitoring of ozone with three different methods in the field are described. The argument is advanced that the differences are due largely to sampling turbulent atmospheres with instruments utilizing different sampling intervals and time constants. It is concluded that when sampling natural turbulent atmospheres, a stable mean value can only be achieved through integrated sampling periods of greater than ten minutes.
A new procedure for the statistical evaluation of intrauterine contraception.	An improved statistical method for assessing the efficacy of intrauterine contraception is presented. This method, called the log-rank method, is based on a daily life table, which yields the best estimates of the cumulative net termination probabilities. It provides a sensitive chi-square test statistic to detect differences among these probabilities for two or more contraceptive devices. When three or more devices are compared, the chi-square statistic may be partitioned into additive components representing comparisons among groups of devices. The log-rank method also permits adjusting for differences among subgroups by controlling for factors such as parity or age. Although calculations may be performed on a desk calculator, a FORTRAN-IV computer program is made available to interested researchers.
Phototherapy in Gunn rats. A study to assess the photobiologically most effective radiant energy and dose/response relationships.	In order to get a more realistic spectral efficiency curve and to evaluate dose/response relationships in phototherapy, homozygous weanling Gunn rats -- nondepilated, with fur -- were illuminated under standardized conditions with 8 different fluorescent tubes. Some of the tubes were operated with different electric power. Clear spectal differences in the extent and the rapidity of the bilirubin decay could be ascertained. Furthermore, the sharpness of the bilirubin decrease depended on the baseline concentration. For the calculations the animals were therefore divided into 3 groups with starting levels of larger than or equal to 8 mg%, 6.5--7.9 mg% and less than 6.5 mg%. Correlating the spectral power distribution of the lamps with the bilirubin decomposition found in the experiment, the spectral response function s(lambda)bili, rel was calculated by an integral method. A comparison of our results with data from the literature shows that so far near UV radiation was evaluated too high. A new radiometer for digital measuring the effective irradiance Ebili was developed. On a logarithmic scale a comparatively sharp dose/response relationship could be demonstrated in dependence on the measured effective radiant exposure. Serum bilirubin decrease is directly proportional to log Ebili. A dose of about 2.5 mW - h/cm2 is necessary to achieve a constant serum bilirubin decrease at all. Good results were obtained at doses of about 35 mW - h/cm2 with the most efficient being at 160 mW - h/cm2. Highly effective doses can be applied with different types of lamps. However, there are great differences in the time of illumination required. 24 h are necessary with daylight tubes (Osram L 20 W/19) to apply 20 mW - h/cm2, whereas the same dose is already attained after 4 h with BAM blue tubes (Philips). The accuracy of the radiometer was finally controlled by screening Westinghouse special blue and Osram standard blue tubes with black tapes, so that the effective irradiance (Ebili) corresponded to that of Osram daylight tubes. The bilirubin decrease observed after this manipulation was nearly identical (not exceeding 1 SD of the daylight values). Since bilirubin decrease was sharper in the first few hours of illumination, continuous phototherapy was compared in some tests with 3 intermittent schedules: (a) 4 h light, 4 h dark, 4 h light; (b) 5 h light, 2 h dark, 5 h light, (c) alternately 2 h light and 2 h dark. There was no indication that more bilirubin could be removed per hour with intermittent phototherapy than with continuous illumination.
Surgery and anesthesia in Ontario.	Operative and case-fatality rates in Ontario for eight elective (discretionary) and seven nonelective (nondiscretionary) operations and the proportions of these operations and their anesthetic procedures performed by general practitioners were calculated. Cholecystectomy increased in frequency 32% from 1968 through 1973, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy decreased 37%, and hysterectomy increased 41%. Except for colectomy the rates for nonelective operations changed only slightly over the 6 years. Case-fatality rates (hospital deaths per 10000 operations) for the discretionary operations in 1973 were as follows: extraction of lens, 23.1; tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, 0.4 (2 deaths among 52938 operations); varicose vein stripping, 6.1; nonrecurrent inguinal herniorrhaphy, 21.9; cholecystectomy, 61.0; hemorrhoidectomy, 9.8; prostatectomy, 115.9; and hysterectomy, 9.6. In 1973 general practitioners did 32% of tonsillectomies and adenoidectomies (61% in 1971), 10 to 20% of inguinal herniorrhaphies, hemorrhoidectomies and appendectomies and 6% or less of the other operations. However, they performed 35% or more of the anesthetic procedures for these four operations as well as for varicose vein stripping, cholecystectomy and hysterectomy. Rates of general-practice surgery and anesthesia in an urban centre in Ontario were substantially less than those for the province as a whole.
Patterns of practice in internal medicine in Ontario.	To determine the feasibility of wholly referral practice in internal medicine within a prepaid health service, the practice profiles of 694 internists in metropolitan, nonmetropolitan urban, and rural areas of Ontario were delineated by analysis of data from questionnaires and health-insurance billing. The questionnaire showed that two thirds of internists, chiefly younger practitioners, confined themselves to a referral consultant practice; the other one third included primary care. Subspecialists practised predominantly in metropolitan areas; most general internists in such areas provided primary care, whereas most general internists elsewhere had an entirely referral practice. This pattern of practice is greatly different from that in the United States but probably similar to that in other provinces in Canada. Extension of wholly referral practice to all internists in Ontario appears feasible, provided the numbers entering residency training are controlled. The present Ontario curricula for internal medicine and its subspecialties appear suitable for such a pattern of practice.
False-positive and false-negative rates for carcinogenicity screens.	The implementation of a number of chemical carcinogen screening programs has been accompanied by the observation that some screens might have high false-positive error rates. With designs presently used at the National Cancer Institute and historical spontaneous tumor rates based upon control animals in previous experiments, we compute upper bounds on the false-positive error rates for several screening strategies. False-positive results are much less likely to occur at tissue sites with low spontaneous tumor rates; hence the site at which a significant tumor increase occurs is important. There is danger in relying solely upon the finding of statistical significance without incorporating biological knowledge and corroborative evidence such as the presence of a dose-response relationship or experimentally consistent results in different species or sexes. A report by the National Cancer Institute Carcinogenesis Program demonstrates these concepts.
Simulation of laboratory errors and their effects on interlaboratory quality-control programs.	The random errors in an analytical method are additive and can be classified into analytical response-dependent and -independent terms. Non-random errors, caused by systematic faults in the analytical procedure, are not always distriguishable from the random errors, but some cases of non-linear assay response and unsuitable standardisation can be studied usefully in models without random error. Interlaboratory quality control programs cannot distinguish systematic and random error until the pattern of results on a number of specimens, or pairs of specimens, can be studied. In this case linear regression analysis is a powerful method for distinguishing different forms of error especially when response-dependent random errors do not predominate. The range of concentrations used for regression whould be as wide as that in which quantitative distinctions are used in clincal diagnosis and treatment. Preliminary reports, of the results on which the regression analysis is based, are most suitably presented on Youden diagrams with paired specimens.
Heredity of idiopathic haemochromatosis: a study of 106 families.	More than 80% of the first degree relatives of 106 patients with iron overload - 97 with idiopathic haemochromatosis (I.H.) and nine with haemosiderosis secondary to alcohol induced liver disease (A.H. - were examined. Physical examination and measurement of plasma iron level and UIBC were done in all subjects; relatives who presented with some anomaly were submitted to a desferrioxamine test and, if the latter showed a high urinary iron output, to a liver biopsy. While absent in relatives of A.H. patients, iron overload was present in 78 out of 499 relatives of I.H. patients: 29 major and 49 minor forms. The major forms involved the sibships almost exclusively. The genetic analysis showed much evidence in favour of a recessive or rather intermediate form of inheritance, with heterozygous developing minor forms. However, other modes of transmission, especially polygenic (probably oligogenic), cannot be totally excluded. Data from recent studies showing a strong correlation between I.H. and certain HLA antigens do not conflict with the above conclusions.
Reproducibility of data on steady-state gas exchange and indices of maldistribution of ventilation and blood flow.	The reproducibility of data on steady-state gas exchange and arterial blood gas levels was examined in 45 patients with similar pathophysiologic abnormalities (idiopathic scoliosis) by comparing the data obtained during two sequential periods breathing air. Comparison in all patients of 12 variables by paired t-test demonstrated statistically significant differences in the following three variables: the ratio of physiologic dead space to tidal volume (Vd/TV), the alveolar-arterial oxygen pressure difference (P[A-a]O2), and the arterial oxygen tension. By excluding four patients whose respiratory quotient was greater than two standard deviations from the mean value and one patient with a marked change in the pattern of ventilation, only the Vd/TV was significantly different (P less than 0.05). The range of the coefficients of variation was wide. The highest, which was for P(A-a)O2, was 18.8 percent; the majority were in range of 6 to 13 percent (minute ventilation, TV, frequency, oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production, respiratory quotient, Vd/TV, dead space, and alveolar ventilation), and the coefficients of variation of partial pressure of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the arterial blood were, respectively, 3.6 and 3.4 percent.
Some methodological considerations for the clinical evaluation of neuroleptics--comparative effects of clozapine and haloperidol on schizophrenics.	For the purpose of evaluating objectively the characteristics of clinical effects of clozapine and haloperidol, a double-blind comparative trial was conducted on 91 schizophrenic in-patients. The changes of symptoms were assessed by means of several psychiatric and behavioral rating scales. The results were analyzed by means of nonparametric statistical methods. Furthermore, application of multivariate analysis was considered. After 12 weeks of treatment, though no significant difference in general improvement rate was noted between the two groups, a marked different spectrum of clinical effects was observed according to the rating scales. Clozapine is superior in anti-delusional, contact-promoting and sedative anxiolytic effect, while haloperidol is superior in anti-autistic effect. Among the side-effects, extrapyramidal symptoms appeared significatly more severe in the haloperidol group. The frequency of appearance of fever, was significantly greater in the clozapine group than the other. The four dropout cases of the clozapine group were all caused by fever. Through this clinical trial, clinical availability and validity of various statistical analytical methods were reconsidered.
Use of normal daughters' and sisters' creatine kinase levels in estimating heterozygosity in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.	A modification is given of the original density function formula of EMERY and MORTON for estimating heterozygosity in X-linked Duchenne muscular dystrophy. This modification takes into account SCK levels in both normal sisters and normal daughters of a suspected carrier in families where there is only one affected male.
The use of the FST statistic of Wright for estimating the effects of genetic drift, selection and migration populations, with special reference to Ireland.	The Fst of Wright has been used to examine the available blood group, serum protein and enzyme data for the world, NW Europe and the counties of Ireland. These include the ABO, secretor, Lewis, MNSs, Rh, Kell, Duffy, Lutheran, Kidd, P, Diego, haptoglobin, Gc, Lp, Ag, adenosine deaminase, adenylate kinase, acid phosphatase, 6-phosphogluconate, phosphoglucomutase and transferrin systems. The highest value was found for the Fy gene. Much lower values than those calculated for world data were found for NW Europe and Ireland with the exception of the Lpa antigen which had high values in Ireland. sigma2p was used to estimate rates of genetic drift in an Irish population and it was estimated that a migration rate of 4% would counter genetic drift in Ireland.
A simple discriminant function for hepatic disease.	Tests of hepatic function do not correlate highly and this, together with their skew distribution, makes the information provided by them difficult to interpret. By means of an appropriate transformation it is possible to normalise their distributions so that the information from them can be combined in the form of a discriminant function which is not only easy to interpret but gives an index of severity of disease which is more reliable than any one single test. In this study nine tests were examined, and after normalisation it was found that only four tests were required to present almost all the information available in the nine. A formula is given for calculating the index in T-score form, which is particularly easy to interpret. A discriminant function of the type described retains the maximum information with the minimum number of biochemical tests. It therefore contributes to the solution of a problem which is causing increasing concern--the exponential increase in the number of investigations which the hospital services will soon find it impossible to bear.
Statistics of the log-compressed echo envelope.	Log compression of A lines to produce B-scan images in clinical ultrasound imaging systems is a standard procedure to control the dynamic range of the images. The statistics of such compressed images in terms of underlying scatterer statistics have not been derived. The statistics are analyzed for partially formed speckle using a general K distribution model of envelope statistics to derive the density function for the log-compressed envelope. This density function is used to elucidate the relation between the moments of the compressed envelope, the compression parameters, and the statistics of the scatterers. The analysis shows that the mean of the log-compressed envelope is an increasing function of both the backscattered energy and the effective scatterer density. The variance of the log-compressed envelope is a decreasing function of the effective scatterer density and is independent of the backscattered energy.
Changes in tonsillectomy rates associated with feedback and review.	Among 13 Vermont Hospital Service Areas, tonsillectomy rates decreased over a five-year period. In 1969, the rates in seven areas exceeded the estimated United States national rate; by 1973, the average rate for all areas had declined 46% and only one area remained above the U.S. rate. Much of the change occurred after feedback of data to the Vermont State Medical Society demonstrating 1969 variations. In 12 of the 13 areas, the relationship between feedback and change in clinical practices could not be documented; however, physicians in the area with the highest rate reviewed the indications for tonsillectomy and adopted a second opinion procedure for reviewing candidates for the surgery. The experience suggests that feedback of population-based data on incidence of procedures may be a valuable tool for the peer review process.
Semilinear canonical correlation applied to the measurement of the electroencephalographic effects of midazolam and flumazenil reversal.	The electroencephalographic (EEG) effect of benzodiazepines, and midazolam in particular, has been described using simple measures such as total power in the beta band, waves.s(-1) in the beta band and total power from aperiodic analysis. All these parameters failed to consistently describe the EEG effect of midazolam in a study in which large doses of midazolam were infused, and the effect subsequently reversed with flumazenil. Using a technique called semilinear correlation it is possible to extract a parameter from the EEG that is statistically optimally correlated with the apparent concentration of the benzodiazepine in the effect site. This method has been used to develop new univariate measures of the effects of opioids on the EEG but has not previously been applied to the EEG effects of benzodiazepines.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging of symptom provocation in obsessive-compulsive disorder.	The new technique of functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to investigate the mediating neuroanatomy of obsessive-compulsive disorder symptoms.
Nuclear medicine and mathematics.	The purpose of this review is not to present a comprehensive description of all the mathematical tools used in nuclear medicine, but to emphasize the importance of the mathematical method in nuclear medicine and to elucidate some of the mathematical concepts currently used. We can distinguish three different areas in which mathematical support has been offered to nuclear medicine: physiology, methodology and data processing. Nevertheless, the boundaries between these areas can be indistinct. It is impossible in a single article to give even an idea of the extent and complexity of the procedures currently used in nuclear medicine, such as image processing, reconstruction from projections and artificial intelligence. These disciplines do not belong to nuclear medicine: they are already branches of engineering, and my interest will reside simply in revealing a little of the elegance and the fantastic potential of these new "allies" of nuclear medicine. In this review the mathematics of physiological interpretation and methodology are considered together in the same section. General aspects of data-processing methods, including image processing and artificial intelligence, are briefly analysed. The mathematical tools that are most often used to assist the interpretation of biological phenomena in nuclear medicine are considered; these include convolution and deconvolution methods, Fourier analysis, factorial analysis and neural networking.
Consistency of film optical density in mammographic screening programmes.	Maintaining a constant and appropriate mean film optical density in mammography is an essential part of quality assurance in a breast screening programme. It depends on stability in X-ray exposure controls, film supplies, intensifying screens and film processing. A programme of weekly monitoring is described which helps to trace the source of any irregular or step-wise changes in any of the relevant parameters. Its results are also used to investigate by statistical methods the degree of film optical density variation achieved in periods of several weeks of apparent general stability. Results are presented for 20 X-ray sets and a total of 32 record periods of 8-10 weeks each. The mean standard deviation for density of a single film of a Perspex block was found to be 3.5%. For processor speed index it was the same while for X-ray set variations it was less than 2%. Neither of these last two variables showed any strong correlation with block film optical density.
SOS chromotest results in a broader context: empirical relationships between genotoxic potency, mutagenic potency, and carcinogenic potency.	Environmental monitoring requires that large numbers of samples be processed in a relatively short period of time. While microbioassays facilitate rapid testing, the results are often difficult to interpret in the broader context of human or animal health. Determining the consequences of exposure to genotoxic substances will ultimately require in situ monitoring of exposed organisms. However, it is immediately possible to construct a broad empirical framework within which available microbioassay results can be interpreted. To do this for SOS Chromotest results, we investigated the empirical relationships between SOS genotoxic potency and mutagenic potency (as measured with the Salmonella/microsome assay), as well as between genotoxic potency and carcinogenic potency (as measured using standard, chronic animal bioassays). Strong relationships were identified between; 1) genotoxic potency and mutagenic potency for 268 direct-acting substances (r2=0.76) and 2) genotoxic potency and mutagenic potency for 126 S9-activated substances (r2=0.65). Ordinary least squares regression analyses of the SOS genotoxicity-Salmonella mutagenicity relationship revealed a significant effect of SOS genotoxicity as well as differences in mutagenic potency that can be attributed to the Salmonella strain used to measure mutagenic potency. Analyses of S9-activated substances revealed a significant interaction between the SOS genotoxic potency (SOSIP) effect and the Salmonella strain effect. Two regression models relating SOS genotoxicity and Salmonella mutagenicity were used to predict the mutagenic potency of several industrial effluent extracts previously analyzed for SOS genotoxicity by White et al. [(1996): Environ Mol Mutagen 27:116-139]. Predictions are consistent with published mutagenic potency values for similar industrial waste materials. A consistent relationship was also identified between genotoxic potency and carcinogenic potency for 51 substances. Linear regression analyses revealed an effect of SOS genotoxic potency as well as differences in carcinogenic potency that may be attributable to experimental animal and route of exposure. The correlation between genotoxicity and carcinogenicity was fairly weak (maximum r value = 0.51). Previous studies revealed similar strength of association between Ames mutagenicity and carcinogenicity. Predicted carcinogenic potencies of previously examined genotoxic, industrial effluent extracts are generally low compared to the pure substances included in the data set.
Distortion generated by the ear: its emergence and evolution during development.	Physiologically vulnerable active mechanics associated with the transduction of sounds in adults distort cochlear output. Specifically, frequencies not present in the incoming acoustic signal are represented in its output (ie., the spike trains of auditory nerve fibers). The purpose of this investigation was to study the appearance and evolution of intermodulation distortion during development. Established surgical and electrophysiologic techniques were used to record the extracellular electrical activity of individual auditory nerve fibers from developing kittens. Discharge-rate or synchrony-based responses to two tones (f1 and f2) presented simultaneously at various ratios of f2/f1 were recorded. The cubic distortion product (CDP; 2f1-f2, where f1<f2) and the difference tone (f2-f1) were the intermodulation distortion products (DPs) emphasized in the investigation. CDPs were first observed nearly 10 days after the earliest auditory nerve fiber responses to simple tone-burst stimuli could be elicited in neonatal cats. Furthermore, the spectrum of DPs generated in the cochlea changed dramatically during the second postnatal week and achieved adultlike characteristics after the first postnatal month. Findings reported here support the notion that cochlear transduction is initially linear in neonatal cats, possibly representing a critical period of auditory development, and that the content of distortion-related spectral information carried in auditory nerve fiber spike trains increases during development, in concert with other peripheral auditory attributes.
The optimum decision rules in the same-different paradigm.	In this paper we derive the optimum (likelihood-ratio) decision statistic for a same-different paradigm. The likelihood ratio is dependent on the degree of correlation between the two observations on each trial. For the two extreme cases in which the observations are either independent or highly correlated, the optimum decision rule is identical to each of two previously suggested decision rules. For these two cases, the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves are calculated. Finally, an experimental procedure is suggested for assessing the decision rule actually used by the observer in a same-different task.
Autoantibodies to fibrillarin in systemic sclerosis (scleroderma). An immunogenetic, serologic, and clinical analysis.	To determine the frequency, clinical associations, and any major histocompatibility complex correlations of antifibrillarin antibodies in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc).
Intrasubject variability of maximal expiratory flow volume curve.	Analysis of airflow in the terminal portion of the maximal expiratory flow volume curve has been suggested as a useful test for the early diagnosis of chronic airways obstruction. Whether such an analysis can identify early disease, and whether any subsequent action can prevent the progress of chronic airways obstruction, is unknown and will require prospective studies. As a precursor of such a study we have tried to establish the intrasubject variability of those tests of forced expiration which may be used for screening. We therefore measured expiratory flow volume curves of five healthy males and five healthy females aged 20-30 years as this is an age-group in which early detection of airways obstruction may be of value. Flow volume curves were obtained on the same day of the week for six weeks, and on three separate days during this period we carried out three flow volume curves every hour from 9 am to 6 pm. The data were subjected to analysis of variance to determine the variability of each measurement. Data were collected from forced expired volume in one second (FEV1) forced vital capacity (FVC), maximum expiratory flow rates at 50% and 75% of expired vital capacity, and forced expiratory time (FET). The results showed no consistent pattern of diurnal variation over the working day. The variation in any subject for FEV1 and FVC over the study period was considerably less than variations detected in the maximal expiratory flow rates at 50% and 75% of the expired vital capacity and FET. Our results suggest that the intrasubject variation found in flow rates of the terminal portion of the maximal expiratory flow volume curve and forced expiratory time may limit the usefulness of these tests in detecting early airways obstruction. FEV1 and FVC are more reproducible tests and are therefore particularly suited for cross-sectional screening. The more sensitive maximal expiratory flow volume curve may, however, be more useful for long-term studies in individuals when the onset of disease is sought, or for short-term challenge studies requiring the most sensitive index of change in airway characteristics.
Shape changes in static V-P loops from children's lungs related to growth.	Sixty-eight sets of deflation data from the left lungs of children who had died from non-pulmonary causes were analysed by the exponential equation model to derive theoretical values of Pst(1) for 50, 60, and 90% of the observed maximum inflation volume. The resultant P50, 60, and 90 values were compared to the same values measured from graphic displays of the V-P data. The graphically derived Pst(1) data at 50, 60, and 90% of TLC were then plotted against the crown-heel length to demonstrate a shape change related to physical growth. It was found that the form of the deflation curve in preterm infants did not fit an exponential model as satisfactorily as did the deflation curve from older children. The exponential model should be used with caution in small infants where Pst(1) values below P90 are sought. A maximum inflation pressure of +30 cm H2O was found to produce a Vmax within 98% of the hypothetical VINF value.
Reassessment of nonplanimetric transrectal ultrasound prostate volume estimates.	To assess the accuracy and reproducibility of nonplanimetric transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) volume estimates because inaccurate volume estimates may potentially undermine the value of serum prostate-specific antigen density (PSAD) in early prostate cancer detection.
Analysis of prospective epidemiologic studies by minimum distance case-control matching.	This paper presents the use of a matching method for analysis of prospective epidemiologic studies which generate a relatively small number of cases of a given disease. In such studies, matching in the manner presented may be of a given disease. In such studies, matching in the manner presented may be superior to other methods of analysis in removing bias due to confounding. A multivariate minimum-distance matching algorithm is used for computer selection of controls for the cases and the method is illustrated by application to a prospective cardiovascular disease study. The main advantages are that the results are easy to understand and interpret, and that there is no possibiligy of bias due to confounding variables when close matches are obtained. In contrast, the results of multivariate analysis may be difficult to understand and interpret, and the removal of bias due to confounding is dependent on the assumptions of the mode. It is recommended that the matching method should be used in addition to and at times stead of other methods of analysis whenever a study involves a relatively small number of cases and a large source of controls of controls on whom relevant study variables have already been documented.
Genetic relationships of lamb weight, maternal ability, and mature ewe weight in Swedish finewool sheep.	Genetic parameters were estimated for weights of lambs from birth to 1 d before slaughter and mature ewe weight (EMW) using REML procedures and single- and two-trait animal models. The data consisted of weight registrations from 5,001 animals descended from 131 sires, 788 dams, 48 maternal grandsires, and 530 maternal granddams in an experimental flock with Swedish finewool sheep. Direct heritabilities increased with lamb age from .07 for birth weight to .21 for weight before slaughter. Maternal heritabilities declined with age from .30 to .07. Direct-maternal genetic correlations were positive and increased with age from .11 for birth weight to .73 for weight before slaughter. For daily gain during shorter periods, direct heritability increased from .07 for the period from birth until 3 wk of age to .14 for the period from weaning until 1 d before slaughter. The values for maternal heritabilities were .16 and .03, respectively. The direct-maternal genetic correlations ranged from -.11 to .59. The direct heritability for EMW varied between analyses from .29 to .63. A nonsignificant maternal heritability of .22 was noted for EMW. Direct genetic correlations between EMW and various lamb weights varied between .36 to .85. Genetic correlations between direct effects on EMW and maternal effects on lamb weights varied between .39 and .53. Direct and maternal genetic correlations between the lamb weights were positive. The results showed that the maternal influence on lamb weights decreased with age. It was indicated that positive genetic relationships exist between ewe weight and maternal effects on lamb weight. Therefore, selection for larger lamb weights alone will not only increase ewe weights but also improve the maternal ability to the ewe.
An assessment of hostility in a population of adolescents.	In the course of an epidemiological survey of adolescents, the Hostility and Direction of Hostility Questionnaire was administered to 6,709 persons aged 13 to 18 years, representing 89% of secondary school students in Hobart, Tasmania. Extrapunitiveness was found to decrease substantially between the ages of 15 and 17 years in both sexes. Intropunitiveness also decreased, although to a lesser extent. Girls were less extrapunitive and more intropunitive than boys over the whole age range. These findings are discussed in relation to their clinical relevance and to the understanding of psychiatric disorder in adolescents.
Causal analysis of academic performance.	Maximum likelihood methods are presented to test for the relations between causes and effects in linear path diagrams, without assuming that estimates of causes are free of error. Causal analysis is illustrated by published data of the Equal Educational Opportunity Survey, which show that American schools do not significantly modify socioeconomic differences in academic performance and that little of the observed racial difference in academic performance is causal. For two races differing by 15 IQ points, the differential if social class were randomized would be only about 3 points. The principle is stressed that a racial effect in a causal system may be environmental and that its etiology can be studied only by analysis of family resemblance in hybrid populations.
Evaluation of the predictive value of Fanger's PMV index study in a population of school children. Predicted mean vote.	Fanger's PMV index has been widely used in the last ten years even if it has not yet been sufficiently tested in children. Furthermore recent studies have expressed doubts on the utilization of the index in real situations. We therefore studied the applicability of the PMV index via a survey that involved school children from 8 to 11 years old. The study was conducted comparing the individual objective quantification of thermal comfort (values of PMV index) and the feeling of subjective thermal comfort of people involved (by answering a standardized questionnaire). The PMV index values within the interval +/- 0.5 were grouped in 2 degrees C operative temperature classes; the percentages of subjects who expressed thermal comfort were calculated within these groups. Considering Fanger's assumption (as foreseen by ISO 7730), the percentage of subjects in a condition of thermal discomfort could not be higher than 10% in each group. On the contrary a percentage of dissatisfied persons was obtained that was significantly higher (p < 0.01) than 10% over all the temperature values considered. The number of discrepancies, analyzed even with respect to operative temperature values, was so high that it could not be attributed to the thermal variation that can be measured in the classrooms. Variations due to differences in the thermal resistance of clothing can be excluded since this was taken into consideration individually during the elaboration of the index.
Characterization of binding sites for calcitonin gene-related peptide in the mollusc gill.	Target organs for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were investigated in Pecten maximus using 125I-labelled human CGRP. CGRP was shown to interact specifically with mantle and gill tissue. Receptor studies using branchial membrane preparations indicated that the binding was time dependent. Scatchard analysis of binding data showed that there was a single class of binding sites. The affinity constant was found to be 0.7.10(8) M-1 and the number of binding sites 2600.10(8)/mg of protein. Salmon CT inhibited the binding of 125I-labelled CGRP to branchial membranes with a lesser efficiency than that of the unlabelled hormone. A 40% inhibition of the 125I-labelled CGRP binding was observed in the presence of 2.6 and 26 nM CGRP and salmon CT, respectively. In addition, 200 nM human CGRP inhibited 25 and 10% of the basal branchial and mantle adenylate cyclase activity, respectively. These data suggest that CGRP participates in the regulation of the branchial function in molluscs probably via a vasoconstrictor role.
Technical and biological conditions influencing the functional APC resistance test.	Poor anticoagulant response to APC is conveniently screened by a commercially available functional test (Coatest APC Resistance) allowing identification of APC-resistant patients. These patients may then be genotyped with respect to factor V, the Arg -> Gln mutation being the principle cause of APC resistance. However, determination of phenotype generally precedes that of genotype, and the need for an "abnormality threshold" prompted a study of inter-batch variations and the clinical conditions associated with an altered APC response. The response to APC was assessed twice in plasma from 111 patients using two of four successive kit batches. A modest but significant inter-batch variability was observed. At the same time, we also tested 130 patients with retinal venous occlusion (RVO), 28 patients with glaucoma and 24 normal volunteers. The APCaPTT/aPTT ratio was found to be lower in the presence of elevated thrombin-antithrombin complexes (r = 0.167, p < 0.02) and low blood viscosity (at high shear rate: r = 0.305, p < 0.0001) independently of any alteration in genotype.
Histopathological evaluation of the inhibition of rat bladder carcinogenesis by 13-cis-retinoic acid.	An objective system for histopathological and statistical evaluation of rat bladder lesions induced by the carcinogen, N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, is described. This system has been used to measure the inhibitory effects of 13-cis-retinoic acid on the development of bladder cancer in female Wistar/Lewis rats. 13-cis-Retinoic acid caused significant inhibition of development of both preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in bladder epithelium.
Sternum length and intermammillary distance in normal newborns.	Short sternum and widely spaced nipples are recognized clinical findings in Edwards' and Patau's syndromes and in Noonan's, Turner's and renal hypoplasia syndromes, respectively. Sternum length, intermammillary distance, length of trunk and thoracic circumference were measured in 307 consecutive live newborns. Intermammillary distance was found to have the highest partial regression coefficient over sternum length. It seems therefore advisable to consider both parameters in the phenotypic description of syndromes where an abnormal variation of one of them is suspected.
Application of the bootstrap to calibration experiments.	In calibration experiments, a number of samples of known concentration are used to establish the relationship between a measured response and sample concentration; this relationship is then used to estimate the unknown concentration of further samples from their measured responses. In addition to the estimates themselves, it is useful to have available some measure of their precision, usually given in the form of confidence limits. The standard method of inverting prediction limits is found to work well in simple situations, but in nonlinear multivariate calibration it becomes intractable. The bootstrap offers an alternative methodology, but in the calibration framework its application is not obvious. We describe some considerations in bootstrapping calibration data and compare our methods with a previous attempt and with the standard method in linear, nonlinear, and multivariate situations. The bootstrap is found to be a useful tool in those situations where the standard method is difficult to implement.
Population pharmacokinetics of phenytoin in Japanese patients with epilepsy: analysis with a dose-dependent clearance model.	The population pharmacokinetic parameters of phenytoin were estimated using routine therapeutic drug monitoring data from 116 epileptic patients. The 531 serum concentration values at steady-state after repetitive oral administration were analyzed using a nonlinear mixed effects model (NONMEM) program designed for estimation of population pharmacokinetic parameters. A one-compartment model with dose-dependent clearance was used for the pharmacokinetic analysis of phenytoin. The volume of distribution (V) was estimated to be 1.231/kg in a typical 42-kg patient, assuming that the bioavailability of orally administered phenytoin is 100%. The maximal elimination rate (V(max)) and the Michaelis-Menten constant (K(m)) were 9.80 mg/d/kg and 9.19 micrograms/ml, respectively. The parameter of power function of weight to adjust V and V(max) was estimated to be 0.463. In addition, K(m) for phenytoin appeared to be 16% increased in patients receiving zonisamide concurrently. The population pharmacokinetic parameters of phenytoin will be useful for designing dosage regimens in epileptic patients.
Relations between parameters of spectral power densities and deterministic chaos of heart-rate variability.	To evaluate whether or not heart-rate variations (HRV) have both periodic and deterministic-chaotic properties in conscious and anaesthetized states, HRV of 9 rabbits were analysed by power spectral analysis and methods of deterministic chaos. In order to correlate these properties with the physiological structure of HRV, cholinergic and beta-adrenergic blockades and medullar transections were done. A predominant deterministic-chaotic structure of HRV with high fractal correlation dimension (CD) during conscious state changes to a more periodic structure and lower CD during general anaesthesia. The main periodic and deterministic-chaotic components of HRV are vagally mediated because of their strong reduction by cholinergic blockade, but not by beta-adrenergic blockade or medullar transection.
Pharmacokinetics of oxcarbazepine in the dog.	Oxcarbazepine has been proven to be a promising new antiepileptic drug for the treatment of human epilepsy. Unlike carbamazepine, it is not oxidatively metabolized in humans, and therefore causes almost no induction of hepatic enzymes at clinically effective dosages. Though showing similar efficacy to carbamazepine, it has been reported to cause significantly fewer side-effects. It was the purpose of the present study to determine whether oxcarbazepine might be suitable for the treatment of canine epilepsy. In single-dose experiments, 40 mg/kg oxcarbazepine as a suspension was administered to seven dogs via gastric tube. Plasma concentrations reached peak concentrations of 2.4-8.8 micrograms/mliter at about 1.5 h and declined with an elimination half-life of approximately 4 h. The corresponding concentrations of its metabolite, 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxycarbamazepine, did not exceed 1 micrograms/mliter. During continued treatment for 8 days, doses of 30 and 50 mg/kg were administered orally in capsules to two dogs three times a day. Plasma concentrations showed a pronounced decline from day 3, and the terminal half-life decreased to 2 h and 1 h. This is considered to be the result of oxcarbazepine inducing its own metabolism. The data reveal that oxcarbazepine, compared with former results with carbamazepine, offers no advantage for the treatment of epileptic dogs.
Interpopulation diversity of the gene pool: beta distribution of Wright's F(ST) statistics]	The distribution of FST(i) estimates were studied in representative samples of ith genes for the gene pools of the major human populations, including the populations of Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, America, North-eastern Eurasia, and five subregions of the latter. An average of 80 FST(i) estimates were analyzed for each sample of marker genes with a level of polymorphism (q) from 0.05 to 0.95. For each gene pool, the empirical distributions of FST(i) estimates were approximated by the main types of theoretical distributions--the normal, chi 2, Weibull, gamma, and beta distributions. In all gene pools, only beta distributions were good approximations of the empirical FST(i) distributions. The parameters of the beta distributions are reported in this study. It was demonstrated that the characteristics of beta distributions for all major gene pools studied could be interpolated to the smaller constituent gene pools. since the use of the traditional parametric tests starts from an assumption of normal distribution, they are inapplicable to analysis of FST statistics. Therefore, the obtained parameters of beta distributions should be used. These parameters allow the confidence intervals of the average FST values to be determined and permit correct comparison between the characteristics of both individual genes and gene pools to be performed.
Relationships among respiratory infections, triggers of attacks, and asthma severity in children.	The present study of asthmatic children examined relationships among the frequencies of prior respiratory infections (i.e., those prior to the development of asthma) and recent (past year) respiratory infections, asthma severity, and the impacts of 12 common asthma triggers: air pollution, allergy problems, anger, cigarette smoke, excitement, high humidity, high or low environmental temperature, laughter, nighttime hours, physical activity, respiratory infection, and stress or worry. Data on these variables were obtained through a survey in which 325 families completed questionnaires; 121 families had asthmatic children who were 2-20 years of age. Pearson correlational analyses revealed many significant positive correlations: The frequencies of prior and recent infections were correlated. The frequency of prior infections was correlated with the impacts of all asthma triggers except allergy problems, but the frequency of recent infections was correlated only with the impacts of air pollution, cigarette smoke, respiratory infection, and nighttime hours as triggers of asthma attacks. Asthma severity was correlated with the frequencies of prior and recent respiratory infections and with the impact of respiratory infection as an asthma trigger.
Severity of glomerular damage with IgA nephropathy and renal prognosis: a comparison between pattern classification and calculated classification]	In our laboratory, a semi-quantitative pattern classification (PC) for the distribution pattern of glomerular sclerotic lesions in biopsied renal specimens with IgA nephropathy has been utilized, and found to be quite beneficial for predicting the patient's prognosis. In the present study conducted to re-evaluate this classification, 503 patients with IgA nephropathy (male/female, 256/247; mean age: 32.1 +/- 13.5 yrs; follow-up: 9.3 +/- 4.5 yrs) were used. The patients had been divided originally into 5 groups based on a previous PC: minimal, mild, moderate, severe and advanced groups. Their glomerular lesions were classified as mild, moderate, severe and global sclerosis, and were given scores of 1-4 points. The mean glomerular score was then calculated for each patient, as a value of the calculated classification (CC), and all patients were then re-divided into 5 groups based on their scores. The renal survival curves in the CC were similar to those in PC, and no significant differences in the renal survival rates were found between the classifications in each group, thus suggesting that the CC has a similar predictive power for renal survival. Although 7 of 39 cases (18%) with global sclerosis in PC groups 4 and 5 shifted down to CC group 3, of 61 patients with global sclerosis in PC group 1 who had a good prognosis, 26 cases (43%) shifted up to the CC group 2 and 6 cases (8%) changed to the CC group 3. As a result, the predictive power in patients in the lower CC groups was lost for the renal survival rate. In conclusion, statistical comparison between the PC and CC groups revealed that global sclerosis presents in non/minimally affected glomeruli as a nonspecific alteration. Severely advanced cases also possess a high incidence of globally sclerotic glomeruli (87%), and therefore the occurrence of global sclerosis may involve two different pathogenic mechanisms.
Unobserved heterogeneity and censoring in the demand for health care.	In this paper we estimate a demand for private medical services equation based on the tradition of Grossman's model of demand for health using data for a panel of Spanish households. The econometric specification accounts for the censored nature of the data, which arises from no participation and infrequency of purchases, and the existence of unobserved heterogeneity, which arises from the non-observability of health states. Our evidence suggests that ignoring these features can have a significant impact on the size, sign and significance of the model estimates. The estimates for the participation and consumption processes also suggest that the deduction of expenditures on health care currently applicable in the Spanish tax system are positively associated to income and fertility.
Sample size and power calculations for comparing two independent proportions in a 'negative' trial.	Statistical methods for evaluating the adequacy of sample size and power cater mainly to the testing for treatment difference in a 'positive' trial. In biomedical research, the trial can sometimes be postulated as 'negative' to demonstrate that the different treatment groups are statistically equivalent. Herein we describe a computer program to determine the adequacy of sample size and power for comparing two independent proportions in a 'negative' trial. The program is written in MicroSoft QuickBasic Version 4.5, and its executable file is suitable for use as a stand-alone program on a microcomputer.
Correlation of plasma clearance of 54 extensively metabolized drugs between humans and rats: mean allometric coefficient of 0.66.	To evaluate the distribution of allometric exponents for relationship of total plasma clearance of 54 extensively metabolized drugs, with wide-ranging linear clearance values, between humans and rats, to provide a rationale for the observed data, and to discuss potential significance of the findings.
Comparisons of the ski turn techniques of experienced and intermediate skiers.	We compared selected kinematic variables for four different ski turn techniques performed by five experienced and five intermediate male skiers. The four ski turn techniques were the upstem turn, the downstem turn, the parallel turn and the parallel step turn. Each turn was divided into the initiation phase and the first and second steering phases. Most of the statistically significant differences (P < 0.05) between the two groups were found for the initiation phases of the four turns. Both the hip axis-hand axis angle and the edging angle of the uphill ski were significantly different between the two groups for the upstem turn at the beginning of the initiation phase. For the downstem turn, significant differences between the groups were found at the start of the initiation phase for the hip axis-hand axis angle, the shoulder axis-fall line angle, and the edging angle of the uphill ski. The standard deviation of the distance between the tips of the two skis over the second steering phase also differed significantly between the two groups. For the parallel step turn, significant differences were found at the start of the initiation phase for the edging angle of the downhill ski and the downhill ski to movement direction angle. Significant differences were also found for the edging angle of the downhill ski in the middle of the second steering phase and the shoulder axis to movement direction angle at the end of this phase. For the initiation phase of the parallel turn, significant differences were found for the timing of setting the ski pole, the uphill knee angle at the start of this phase and the range of the knee angle of the uphill leg from the start to the end of this phase. For this turn, significant differences between the two groups were also found for the edging angle of the downhill ski in the middle of the second steering phase and the shoulder axis to movement direction angle at the end of this phase. One of the reasons it was possible to identify a few significant differences only for the turns analysed, was the variability within the intermediate group: for most of the variables analysed, the standard deviation was much higher for the intermediate than for the experienced group.
Functional analysis and treatment of destructive behavior maintained by termination of "don't" (and symmetrical "do") requests.	We used descriptive assessment information to generate hypotheses regarding the function of destructive behavior for 2 individuals who displayed near-zero rates of problem behavior during an experimental functional analysis using methods similar to Iwata, Dorsey, Slifer, Bauman, and Richman (1982/1994). The descriptive data suggested that destructive behavior occurred primarily when caregivers issued requests to the participants that interfered with ongoing high-probability (and presumably highly preferred) behaviors (i.e., a "don't" or a symmetrical "do" request). Subsequent experimental analyses showed that destructive behavior was maintained by contingent termination of "don't" and symmetrical "do" requests but not by termination of topographically similar "do" requests. These results suggested that destructive behavior may have been maintained by positive reinforcement (i.e., termination of the "don't" request allowed the individual to return to a highly preferred activity). Finally, a treatment (functional communication training plus extinction) developed on the basis of these analyses reduced destructive behavior to near-zero levels.
Mannose ligand receptor assay as a test to predict fertilization in vitro: a prospective study.	To assess whether mannose receptor assays can predict fertilization outcome in vitro.
Risk factors for acute renal failure in trauma patients.	To elucidate the risk factors for the development of acute renal failure (ARF) in severe trauma.
The clinical relevance of the Waterlow pressure sore risk scale in the ICU.	To evaluate whether the Waterlow pressure sore risk (PSR) scale has prognostic significance for intensive care patients.
Sociometric classification methods in school peer groups: a comparative investigation.	The categorical consequences and psychometric properties of different sociometric classification methods were evaluated. Children aged 9 to 12 years (N = 254) completed three sociometric questionnaires and a peer assessment measure on two occasions 5 weeks apart. The sociometric data were analysed using 13 different methods. Analysis of kappa values indicated relatively poor agreement across methods on subject classification. Temporal stability of the classifications was also poor. Assessment of construct validity involved analysis of the peer assessment items, using MANOVA to test hypotheses based on ideas from social exchange theory. Cross-sex rating biases and difficulties with the neglected and controversial classifications are discussed as indicating a need for the application of theoretically based approaches which consider features of the peer group social system and a need for caution in selecting methods for clinical use.
The TAPS project 32: social networks of two group homes ... 5 years on. Team for the Assessment of Psychiatric Services.	Long-stay psychiatric patients discharged to two group homes from Friern Hospital were studied 1 year and 5 years after discharge. A much greater cohesiveness of social relationships was noted in the smaller home at both time points, whereas in the larger home residents had failed to develop friendships and intimacy within their social group. A number of hypotheses were explored to explain this difference. None of the factors investigated provided an explanation, including the mental state of the patients prior to discharge, their problems of social behaviour, the size of the group homes, whether they were staffed or unstaffed, and the patients' age. However, the development of friendships and intimacy over a 5-year period was strongly determined by the quality of the patients' social networks while in hospital. Consequently, when selecting groups of patients to share homes in the community, it is deemed advisable to form groups that fully reflect the range and diversity of their social networks.
Structure, stability, and development of young children's self-concepts: a multicohort-multioccasion study.	A new, individual administration procedure for assessing multiple dimensions of self-concept for young children 5-8 years of age (Marsh, Craven, & Debus) was the basis of this study. We expanded this application in a multicohort-multioccasion (MCMO) study that provides simultaneous multicohort comparisons (cross-sectional comparisons of different age cohorts) and longitudinal comparisons of the same children on multiple occasions. There was reasonable support for predictions that reliability, stability, factor structure, and the distinctiveness of the SDQ factors would improve with age (a between-group age cohort comparison) and from 1 year to the next (a longitudinal comparison), and that small gender differences were reasonably stable over age. Consistent with the proposal that children's self-perceptions become more realistic with age, Time 1 (T1) teacher ratings were more highly correlated with student self-ratings at T2 than T1 and contributed to the prediction of T2 self-concept beyond effects mediated by T1 self-concepts. The results support and expand the surprisingly good support for the multidimensionality of self-concept responses for very young children using this procedure.
Rejection sensitivity and children's interpersonal difficulties.	Some children respond to social rejection in ways that undermine their relationships, whereas others respond with more equanimity. This article reports 3 studies that test the proposition that rejection sensitivity--the disposition to defensively (i.e., anxiously or angrily) expect, readily perceive, and overreact to social rejection--helps explain individual differences in response to social rejection. Data were from urban, minority (primarily Hispanic and African American) fifth to seventh graders. Study 1 describes the development of a measure of rejection sensitivity for children. Study 2 provides experimental evidence that children who angrily expected rejection showed heightened distress following an ambiguously intentioned rejection by a peer. Study 3 shows that rejection sensitive children behaved more aggressively and experienced increased interpersonal difficulties and declines in academic functioning over time.
Credibility of information from official sources on HIV/AIDS transmission.	The authors analyzed data from the 1991 National Planning Survey to (a) assess respondents' awareness of three official sources of information about HIV/AIDS (CDC, the Surgeon General, and state health departments); (b) assess respondents' perceptions of the reliability of these sources; and (c) compare respondents' personal beliefs about HIV transmission with their beliefs regarding the experts' view.
Limulus amebocyte lysate assay for detection of endotoxin in patients with sepsis syndrome. AMCC Sepsis Project Working Group.	Clinical predictions alone are insufficiently accurate to identify patients with specific types of bloodstream infection; laboratory assays might improve such predictions. Therefore, we performed a prospective cohort study of 356 episodes of sepsis syndrome and did Limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) assays for endotoxin. The main outcome measures were bacteremia and infection due to gram-negative organisms; other types of infection were secondary outcomes. Assays were defined as positive if the result was > or = 0.4 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units per milliliter. There were positive assays in 119 (33%) of 356 episodes. Assay positivity correlated with the presence of fungal bloodstream infection (P < .003) but correlated negatively with the presence of gram-negative organisms in the bloodstream (P = .04). A trend toward higher rates of mortality in the LAL assay-positive episodes was no longer present after adjusting for severity. Thus, results of LAL assay did not correlate with the presence of bacteremia due to gram-negative organisms or with mortality after adjusting for severity but did correlate with the presence of fungal bloodstream infection.
The effect of face inversion on the human fusiform face area.	Inversion severely impairs the recognition of greyscale faces and the ability to see the stimulus as a face in two-tone Mooney images. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study the effect of face inversion on the human fusiform face area (FFA). MR signal intensity from the FFA was reduced when greyscale faces were presented upside-down, but this effect was small and inconsistent across subjects when subjects were required to attend to both upright and inverted faces. However when two-tone faces were inverted, the MR signal from the FFA was substantially reduced for all subjects. We conclude that (i) the FFA responds to faces per se, rather than to the low-level visual features present in faces, and (ii) inverted greyscale faces can strongly activate this face-specific mechanism.
Separating hierarchical relations and word order in language production: is proximity concord syntactic or linear?	In this paper we address the question whether hierarchical relations and word order can be separated in sentence production. In two experiments, we assess whether subject-verb agreement errors (such as 'The time for fun and games are over') require linear proximity of a so-called 'local' noun ('games' in the example) to the verb. In the first experiment, we found a proximity effect when participants were asked to complete sentential beginnings of the kind: 'The helicopter for the flights'. In the second experiment, we asked participants to produce a question such as 'Is the helicopter for the flights safe?'. The syntactic relation between the subject noun and the local noun is the same in the two experiments, but the linear position of the local noun is different. The distribution of agreement errors was similar in the two experiments. We argue that these data provide evidence for a stage in language production in which a syntactic structure is built prior to a stage in which words are assigned to their linear position. Agreement is computed during the first stage.
Estrogen receptor negative and progesterone receptor positive primary breast cancer: pathological characteristics and clinical outcome. Institut Curie Breast Cancer Study Group.	The expression of estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PgR) receptors was analyzed in a retrospective series of 3000 patients who had operable primary breast cancer. Patients were stratified according to ER and PgR status and the study was focused on the two groups (ER-PgR+ and ER-PgR-) of patients whose tumors contained low levels of ER (< 15 fmol/mg protein), regarding potential response to endocrine therapy. The comparison of clinical or histological characteristics between ER-PgR+ and ER-PgR- patients was analyzed as well as the disease-related death and survival. The mean follow-up was 86.3 months. Among the 529 ER-patients, 62 were PgR+ (12%), whereas 467 were PgR- (88%). The ER-PgR+ and ER-PgR- populations represented 2% and 15.6% of the overall population, respectively. In ER- tumors, the PgR status was significantly related to: age, menopausal status, tumor size, SBR grade, and histological type, but not to the type of surgical treatment or to lymph node involvement. ER-PgR+ tumors had smaller size (64% T1 vs 43%) (p=0.004) and were more frequently grade I (28% vs 12%) than ER-PgR- tumors (p < 0.001). In addition, the patients with ER-PgR+ tumors were significantly younger (49.4 years vs 58.4 years; p < 0.0001), and were more frequently premenopausal (76% vs 36%, p < 0.001). The disease-free interval and the metastasis-free survival tended to be worse for ER-PgR- than for ER-PgR+ patients, but the difference was not statistically significant at 10 years. However, a small but significant difference in overall survival, in favor of the PgR+ group, was observed between the two groups during the first 5 years (p=0.03). We conclude that in combination with ER, PgR status defines a group of patients with clinical and biological specificity, which could be considered for specific endocrine therapy.
An objective comparison of 3-D image interpolation methods.	To aid in the display, manipulation, and analysis of biomedical image data, they usually need to he converted to data of isotropic discretization through the process of interpolation. Traditional techniques consist of direct interpolation of the grey values. When user interaction is called for in image segmentation, as a consequence of these interpolation methods, the user needs to segment a much greater (typically 4-10x) amount of data. To mitigate this problem, a method called shape-based interpolation of binary data was developed 121. Besides significantly reducing user time, this method has been shown to provide more accurate results than grey-level interpolation. We proposed an approach for the interpolation of grey data of arbitrary dimensionality that generalized the shape-based method from binary to grey data. This method has characteristics similar to those of the binary shape-based method. In particular, we showed preliminary evidence that it produced more accurate results than conventional grey-level interpolation methods. In this paper, concentrating on the three-dimensional (3-D) interpolation problem, we compare statistically the accuracy of eight different methods: nearest-neighbor, linear grey-level, grey-level cubic spline, grey-level modified cubic spline, Goshtasby et al., and three methods from the grey-level shape-based class. A population of patient magnetic resonance and computed tomography images, corresponding to different parts of the human anatomy, coming from different three-dimensional imaging applications, are utilized for comparison. Each slice in these data sets is estimated by each interpolation method and compared to the original slice at the same location using three measures: mean-squared difference, number of sites of disagreement, and largest difference. The methods are statistically compared pairwise based on these measures. The shape-based methods statistically significantly outperformed all other methods in all measures in all applications considered here with a statistical relevance ranging from 10% to 32% (mean = 15%) for mean-squared difference.
Helix-helix packing angle preferences for finite helix axes.	Recently, James Bowie addressed the question of how to normalize correctly the distribution of observed helix-helix packing angles in proteins (Bowie, Nature Struct. Biol. 4:915-917, 1997). A hitherto unrealized yet significant bias toward crossed packing angles was revealed. However, the derived random reference distribution of packing angles requires that helices have to be assumed as infinite in length. Here, we complement Bowie's analysis by consideration of the more realistic case where helices are of finite length. As a result, the statistical bias toward near perpendicular packings appears to be even stronger.
Modelling repressor proteins docking to DNA.	The docking of repressor proteins to DNA starting from the unbound protein and model-built DNA coordinates is modeled computationally. The approach was evaluated on eight repressor/DNA complexes that employed different modes for protein/ DNA recognition. The global search is based on a protein-protein docking algorithm that evaluates shape and electrostatic complementarity, which was modified to consider the importance of electrostatic features in DNA-protein recognition. Complexes were then ranked by an empirical score for the observed amino acid /nucleotide pairings (i.e., protein-DNA pair potentials) derived from a database of 20 protein/ DNA complexes. A good prediction had at least 65% of the correct contacts modeled. This approach was able to identify a good solution at rank four or better for three out of the eight complexes. Predicted complexes were filtered by a distance constraint based on experimental data defining the DNA footprint. This improved coverage to four out of eight complexes having a good model at rank four or better. The additional use of amino acid mutagenesis and phylogenetic data defining residues on the repressor resulted in between 2 and 27 models that would have to be examined to find a good solution for seven of the eight test systems. This study shows that starting with unbound coordinates one can predict three-dimensional models for protein/DNA complexes that do not involve gross conformational changes on association.
On the use of ultraviolet resonance Raman intensities to elaborate molecular force fields: application to nucleic acid bases and aromatic amino acid residues models.	Normal modes analyses for different molecules with biological interest have been performed and checked via the calculation of resonance Raman intensities. For this purpose, molecular orbital calculations were used to determine bond order changes in the lowest-lying electronic transitions. These bond order changes were used to calculate resonance Raman intensities in order to obtain correct vibrational assignments and reliable force fields.
Increased serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha are correlated to soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 concentrations in non-small cell lung cancer patients.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha has been shown to induce shedding of ICAM-1. Experimental studies report that soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) may interfere with the host immunesurveillance system. Serum levels of TNF-alpha and sICAM-1 were determined by ELISA in 112 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Serum concentration of TNF-alpha and sICAM-1 were related to tumor burden and progression; a significant correlation was observed between circulating levels of TNF-alpha and sICAM-1. Our study suggests that ICAM-1 could be a marker of TNF-alpha activity and that high levels of these molecules may have a prognostic value in lung cancer.
p185 overexpression in 220 samples of breast cancer undergoing primary surgery: comparison with c-erbB-2 gene amplification.	In breast cancer, DNA amplification of the oncogene c-erbB-2, encoding for the p185 protein, is associated with a poor prognosis. A retrospective study on a population of 220 cases of primary breast cancer permitted a quantitative measure of p185 oncoprotein overexpression by an immunoenzymetric assay and the determination of c-erbB-2 amplification by the Southern blot method. A correlation existed between the two measurements (r=0.85) using the double cut-off: DNA 2 copies and p185 400 U/mg protein, and only 2.7% of the cases were discordant. 13.2% of the tumors showed p185 overexpression. The percentage of tumors overexpressing p185 was significantly different between the groups with amplified and non-amplified c-erbB-2. We observed a significant correlation between p185 levels and tumor grade (p=0.03), and an inverse correlation with hormonal receptors (p=0.0001). The p185 assay could be an additional prognostic factor to better define patient subgroups with node negative, grade II, and positive or negative hormonal receptors.
Segregation analysis of Parkinson disease.	Parkinson disease (PD) is a prevalent movement disorder of unknown cause whose incidence rises with increasing age. Nearly 20% of PD is familial, a small subset of which exhibits autosomal dominant transmission. However, in most families, the inheritance is not clear. To determine the most likely mode of inheritance of PD, we performed complex segregation analyses using kindreds of 136 PD patients randomly ascertained from a clinic population. The hypotheses of a nontransmissible environmental factor, no major gene or type (sporadic), and all Mendelian inheritance (dominant, recessive, additive, decreasing) were rejected (P <0.001). Familial clustering of PD in this data set is best explained by a rare familial factor which a) is transmitted in a nonMendelian fashion, and b) influences the age at onset of PD. If confirmed, our results have immediate implications in gene-mapping studies which often search for genes that behave in a Mendelian fashion that affect susceptibility rather than age at onset and long term implications in understanding the pathogenesis of PD.
Performance of a new blood pressure monitor in children and young adults: the difficulties in clinical validation.	The aim of this study was to assess the performance of a new ambulatory blood pressure monitor (Dynapulse 5000A) in children and young adults. The reference methods, i.e. the mercury-Doppler (Hg-D) method of blood-pressure measurement (recommended for less than 5-year-old children by the British Hypertension Society criteria) and the mercury-auscultation (Hg-A) technique (recommended for 5 years and above) were initially compared utilizing 132 concomitant systolic blood pressure (SBP) readings taken among 44 subjects (3 in each) aged 2-30 years. Hg-D over-read SBP above that of the conventional Hg-A by a mean of 5.25 mmHg (95% confidence interval (CI) 4.11, 6.4). This difference in measurement between the two techniques was also significantly (p = 0.01) related to age. [Difference in mmHg = 7.83 (95% CI 5.53, 10.12) -0.30 (95% CI -0.54, -0.07) age in years.] The Dynapulse 5000A was therefore validated only against Hg-D throughout the age range and was undertaken utilizing 468 concomitant resting SBP measurements taken among 59 subjects (supine or sitting) using a 'T' system. The Dynapulse was found to give higher SBP readings (average 13.5 mmHg) than Hg-D sphygmomanometry. Although the differences were not dependent on the age of the child, the pulse rate or the body mass index, there was a significant drift in the differences with time (-0.05 mmHg/day). Repeatability of each of the measurement methods calculated utilizing two or three consecutive recordings taken at 1-min intervals showed that variability between repeated measurements made with the Dynapulse (14.8%) was greater than for Hg-D. Repeatability coefficient of the Hg-D (11.2%) was also less than ideal for a reference method. We conclude that Dynapulse 5000A over-reads SBP above that detected by Hg-D, but cannot be fairly graded by British Hypertension Society criteria due to the inconsistency and poor repeatability of the recommended reference methods.
The association between the total antioxidant potential of plasma and the presence of coronary heart disease and renal dysfunction in patients with NIDDM.	Oxidative stress may be an important pathogenetic factor in the development of diabetic vascular complications. The total antioxidative potential of plasma reflects the ability of an individual to resist oxidative stress. We measured the plasma total peroxyl radical-trapping potential (TRAP) and the concentrations of four plasma chain-breaking antioxidants in 81 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) nine years after diagnosis and in 102 well-matched non-diabetic control subjects. The association between the total antioxidative potential and the presence of coronary heart disease (CHD) and diabetic kidney disease were also studied. There were no significant differences in plasma TRAP between NIDDM patients and control subjects (1250+/-199 vs. 1224+/-198 microM). Nor were there any significant differences in the concentrations of plasma uric acid, ascorbic acid, alpha-tocopherol, and protein thiols between NIDDM patients and control subjects. Patients with a low glomerular filtration rate and/or high urinary albumin excretion had elevated plasma uric acid. Plasma TRAP was not, however, associated with renal dysfunction. The plasma of NIDDM patients with CHD had a significantly higher value of unidentified antioxidative potential than that of patients without CHD. This relation was strongly dependent upon smoking. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that there are no major defects in the antioxidative potential of plasma caused by NIDDM per se. CHD and diabetic renal dysfunction were not associated with changes in plasma TRAP.
Computational site-directed mutagenesis of haloalkane dehalogenase in position 172.	The application of molecular modelling and quantum-chemistry calculations for the 'computational site-directed mutagenesis' of haloalkane dehalogenase is described here. The exhaustive set of single point mutants of haloalkane dehalogenase in position 172 was constructed by homology modelling. The ability of substituting residues to stabilize the halide ion formed during the dehalogenation reaction in the enzyme active site was probed by quantum-chemical calculations. A simplified modelling procedure was adopted to obtain informative results on the potential activity of mutant proteins in a sufficiently short period of time, which, in the future, could be applicable for making bona fide predictions of mutants' activity prior to their preparation in the laboratory. The reaction pathways for the carbon-halide bond cleavage were calculated using microscopic models of wild type and mutant proteins. The theoretical parameters derived from the calculation, i.e. relative energies and selected atomic charges of educt, product and transition state structures, were statistically correlated with experimentally determined activities. The charge difference of educt and product on the halide-stabilizing hydrogen atom of residue 172 was the best parameter to distinguish protein variants with high activity from mutant proteins displaying a low activity. All mutants with significant activity in the experiment were found to have this parameter one order of magnitude higher than mutants with low activity. The results obtained are discussed in the light of the practical application of this methodology for the prediction of potentially active protein variants. Further automation of the modelling procedure is suggested for combinatorial screening of the large number of protein variants. Coupling of the dehalogenation reaction with hydrogenation of the halide ion formed during the reaction in the enzyme active site was proposed as a possible way to improve the catalytic activity of the haloalkane dehalogenase of Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10.
Modeling of the time-dependency of in vitro drug cytotoxicity and resistance.	For potential clinical extrapolation of in vitro findings, it is of interest to relate the measured effect of an anticancer agent to concentration and exposure time. The Hill model (A. V. Hill, J. Physiol., 40: iv-vii, 1910) is commonly used to describe pharmacodynamic (PD) effects, including drug-induced growth inhibition of cancer cells in vitro. The IC(X)n x T = k relationship, in which IC(X) is the concentration of agent required to reduce cell growth by X%, T is the exposure time, and n and k are estimable parameters, was first applied to bacterial disinfectant action and then was successfully used to model anticancer drug potency as a function of exposure time (D. J. Adams, Cancer Res., 49: 6615-6620, 1989). Our goal was to create a new global PD modeling paradigm to facilitate the quantitative assessment of the growth-inhibitory effect of anticancer agents as a function of concentration and exposure time. Wild-type human ovarian A2780 and ileocecal HCT-8 carcinoma cells and sublines that were resistant to cisplatin (A2780/CP3), doxorubicin (A2780/DX5B), and raltitrexed (RTX) (HCT-8/DW2) were exposed to various anticancer agents, cisplatin, doxorubicin, paclitaxel, trimetrexate, RTX, methotrexate, and AG2034, for periods ranging from 1 to 96 h. Cell growth inhibition was measured with the sulforhodamine B protein dye assay. Patterns of time-dependency of drug potency, slope of the concentration-effect curves, and relative degree of resistance were characterized. Empirical mathematical expressions were built into a global concentration-time-effect model. The global PD model was then fit to the concentration-time-effect data with iteratively reweighted nonlinear regression. Under specific treatment conditions, the examination of the slope and the shape of the concentration-effect curves revealed a large heterogeneity in drug response, e.g., shallow concentration-effect curve or double or triple Hill "roller coaster" concentration-effect curve. These patterns, which were observed at intermediate exposure times in parental and resistant cells for paclitaxel and trimetrexate or only in resistant HCT-8/DW2 cells for RTX, methotrexate, and AG2034, revealed mechanistic insights for the former cases but possible methodological artifacts for the latter cases. The comprehensive PD modeling of the cytotoxic effect of anticancer agents showed that it was possible to modulate drug effect, response heterogeneity, and drug resistance by altering the time of exposure to the agents. This approach will be useful for: (a) describing complex concentration-time-effect surfaces; (b) refining biological interpretations of data; (c) providing insights on mechanisms of drug action and resistance; and (d) generating leads for clinical use of anticancer drugs.
Kinetic analysis of enzyme inactivation under second-order conditions by use of substrate-to-product progress curves: application to the inhibition of trypsin by alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor.	The inhibition of bovine pancreatic trypsin by human alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor (alpha-1 PI) was studied under second-order conditions by continuously monitoring the fluorescence change due to the enzymatic hydrolysis of N alpha-benzoyl-L-arginine 7-amido-4-methyl-coumarin as substrate. Employing equimolar starting concentrations of enzyme and inhibitor (110-220 nM), the fluorescence progress curve was analyzed according to the equation Pt = (kcat[S]/kiKm)In[ki[E]0t + 1], where ki is the second-order rate constant for the reaction, E + alpha-1 PI-->E* alpha-1 PI (inactive). ki was found to be 1.8 +/- 0.16 x 10(7) M-1 min-1 (at pH 7.0 and 25 degrees C), in close agreement with results obtained by alternative kinetic methods. The method reported appears to be valid and should be useful in the study of fast reactions where one of the reaction partners is an enzyme. An extension of the second-order progress curve approach to cover unequimolar mixtures of E and I is also offered.
Negative cooperativity in tryptophan synthase alpha subunit dissociation is caused by the bound coenzyme: pyridoxal 5'-phosphate.	Sedimentation equilibrium studies of dilute solutions of tryptophan synthase reveal dissociation from the holoenzyme form, alpha 2 beta 2, into mixtures of alpha beta 2, small amounts of beta 2, and alpha as well as the original alpha 2 beta 2 holoenzyme. The holoenzyme form is stabilized by pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. A new sedimentation equilibrium analytical procedure shows the dissociation of the second alpha subunit to be negatively cooperative. The analytical procedure calculates theoretical error profiles with assumed values of the dissociation constant, k, and a cooperativity parameter until a match is made between one of the theoretical profiles and that computed from experimental data. The latter profile is calculated with an experimentally determined k and assumed values of the cooperativity parameter.
Relationships between the pituitary-adrenal hormones, insulin, and glucose in middle-aged men: moderating influence of psychosocial stress.	We examined whether the relationships between the pituitary-adrenal hormones (corticotropin [ACTH) and cortisol), insulin, and glucose differ as a function of psychosocial stress defined in terms of vital exhaustion (VE) and depressive behavior (DB). The participants were 69 normotensive and 21 unmedicated borderline hypertensive (BH) middle-aged men whose work is stressful. Hormonal and metabolic variables were measured during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), and the cortisol response to dexamethasone (DXM) suppression and intravenous ACTH stimulation was also measured. We found that the basal ACTH level during the OGTT was positively associated with the cortisol response to ACTH at 60 minutes, the fasting insulin level, and the insulin to glucose ratio among exhausted and high DB men, while the reverse was true for nonexhausted and low DB men. Also, a high cortisol response to ACTH, a low cortisol level during the OGTT, and a high ratio of these cortisol determinations (cortisol ratio) were associated with high fasting insulin and glucose levels, the summed insulin values, and the insulin to glucose ratio only among nonexhausted and low DB men; among exhausted and high DB men, these associations were less pronounced, absent, or in the opposite direction. The findings suggest that VE and DB have a moderating influence on the relationships among the hormonal and metabolic parameters studied. Psychosocial stress may affect the pituitary-adrenocortical system in complex ways, contributing thereby to insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk.
Number of sampling movements and manual stiffness judgments.	It has been suggested that when using posteroanterior pressure to assess the stiffness of the spine, no more than two or three oscillations should be used. This study sought to examine this clinical impression by investigating the effect of the number of sampling movements on stiffness perception.
Size is everything--large amounts of information are needed to overcome random effects in estimating direction and magnitude of treatment effects.	Variability in patients' response to interventions in pain and other clinical settings is large. Many explanations such as trial methods, environment or culture have been proposed, but this paper sets out to show that the main cause of the variability may be random chance, and that if trials are small their estimate of magnitude of effect may be incorrect, simply because of the random play of chance. This is highly relevant to the questions of 'How large do trials have to be for statistical accuracy?' and 'How large do trials have to be for their results to be clinically valid?' The true underlying control event rate (CER) and experimental event rate (EER) were determined from single-dose acute pain analgesic trials in over 5000 patients. Trial group size required to obtain statistically significant and clinically relevant (0.95 probability of number-needed-to-treat within -/+0.5 of its true value) results were computed using these values. Ten thousand trials using these CER and EER values were simulated using varying group sizes to investigate the variation due to random chance alone. Most common analgesics have EERs in the range 0.4-0.6 and CER of about 0.19. With such efficacy, to have a 90% chance of obtaining a statistically significant result in the correct direction requires group sizes in the range 30-60. For clinical relevance nearly 500 patients are required in each group. Only with an extremely effective drug (EER > 0.8) will we be reasonably sure of obtaining a clinically relevant NNT with commonly used group sizes of around 40 patients per treatment arm. The simulated trials showed substantial variation in CER and EER, with the probability of obtaining the correct values improving as group size increased. We contend that much of the variability in control and experimental event rates is due to random chance alone. Single small trials are unlikely to be correct. If we want to be sure of getting correct (clinically relevant) results in clinical trials we must study more patients. Credible estimates of clinical efficacy are only likely to come from large trials or from pooling multiple trials of conventional (small) size.
Widths of transverse momentum distributions in intermediate-energy heavy-ion collisions.	The need to include dynamical collision momentum transfer contributions, arising from interacting nuclear and Coulomb fields, to estimates of fragment momentum distributions is discussed.  Methods based upon an optical potential model are presented.  Comparisons with recent experimental data of the Siegen group for variances of transverse momentum distributions for gold nuclei at 980 A MeV fragmenting on silver foil and plastic nuclear track detector targets are made.  The agreement between theory and experiment is good.
