Selection of BCR/ABL-negative stem cells from marrow or blood of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia.	Philadelphia (Ph) or BCR/ABL-negative cells with immature phenotype (CD34-positive, DR-negative) can be recovered from patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in chronic phase. We used the technique described by Berardi et al (Science 1995; 267: 104-108) to select stem cells from marrow or blood of CML patients at diagnosis or during treatment with alpha-interferon. Mononuclear cells (MNC), and in some experiments CD34+ cells, were maintained for 7 days in the presence of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), stem cell factor and interleukin-3. The number of viable cells recovered after culture was between 7.4 and 70.2 for 10(6) cells plated. These cells exhibited the following phenotype: CD34+, CD117+, CD38-, lineage-, and were able to generate cobblestone areas and secondary colonies in long-term culture (LTC), with a frequency similar to that of cells selected from normal marrow. Study by fluorescence in situ hybridization of LTC cells or secondary colonies showed no evidence of BCR/ABL rearrangement. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction studies on pooled LTC cells or secondary colonies were also negative. By contrast, LTC cells or secondary colonies obtained from CML CD34+ cells without culture in the presence of 5-FU were always positive for BCR/ABL rearrangement. Finally, 5-FU selected cells were able to engraft NOD/SCID mouse, as human cells were detected in blood and marrow 10 weeks post transplantation, which were BCR/ABL negative by RT-PCR. This method of culture makes it possible to select constantly BCR/ABL-negative cells with capacities of development in LTC assay and of NOD/SCID mouse engraftment.
Hematopoietic stem cells do not repair the infarcted mouse heart.	Recent reports suggest that hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) can transdifferentiate into cardiomyoctes and contribute to myocardial regeneration after injury. This concept has recently been challenged by studies in which bone-marrow (BM)-derived cells do not acquire a cardiac phenotype after direct injection into ischemic myocardium.
Thrombopoietic factors in chronic bone marrow failure states: the platelet problem revisited.	Thrombocytopenia is a serious clinical problem in several different clinical settings. In chronic bone marrow failure states, which include aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and graft failure, the prolonged nature of thrombocytopenia often leads to alloimunization after repeated platelet transfusions, the consequence of which is a platelet-refractory state and enhanced risk of bleeding. Despite the introduction of several thrombopoietic factors into clinical trials, an effective way to alleviate thrombocytopenia has been elusive, and the problem in chronic bone marrow failure states has remained poorly addressed by clinical investigations. Even so, several studies by our group and others suggest that a subset of patients suffering from chronic bone marrow failure can respond to appropriate growth factor therapy. The temporal pace of response appears, however, to be much slower than that observed after administering growth factors which act on neutrophils. On the other hand, durable responses can be secured in some patients given thrombopoietic factors for long periods of time. Herein, we provide an overview of the clinical research investigations of thrombopoietic factors in chronic bone marrow failure, and the emerging insights these studies provide for understanding the process of thrombopoiesis and its therapy in this setting.
Protective potential of SCF for mice preimplantation embryos cultured in vitro in suboptimal conditions.	To examine the effect of stem cell factor (SCF) to embryos exposed to detrimental factors.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in the treatment of acute radiation syndrome: a concise review.	This article concisely summarizes data on the action of one of the principal and best known growth factors, the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), in a mammalian organism exposed to radiation doses inducing acute radiation syndrome. Highlighted are the topics of its real or anticipated use in radiation accident victims, the timing of its administration, the possibilities of combining G-CSF with other drugs, the ability of other agents to stimulate endogenous G-CSF production, as well as of the capability of this growth factor to ameliorate not only the bone marrow radiation syndrome but also the gastrointestinal radiation syndrome. G-CSF is one of the pivotal drugs in the treatment of radiation accident victims and its employment in this indication can be expected to remain or even grow in the future. 
