Molecular cloning of POEM: a novel adhesion molecule that interacts with alpha8beta1 integrin.	Cell adhesion molecules are involved in a number of biological functions, such as cell survival, cell differentiation, tissue repair, and development. A novel molecule, POEM (preosteoblast epidermal growth factor-like repeat protein with meprin, A5 protein, and receptor protein-tyrosine phosphatase mu domain), was isolated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using a set of degenerate primers designed after other known epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like motifs. From its structure, POEM was suggested to be a novel adhesion molecule with five EGF-like domains, an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) cell binding motif, and a meprin, A5 protein, and receptor protein-tyrosine phosphatase mu (MAM) domain. By in situ hybridization using embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5) mouse embryos, strong expression of POEM mRNA was observed in developing kidney renal tubules, parathyroid and thyroid glands, developing bone, tooth germ, and endocrine organs of the brain. The inner ear, skeletal muscle, smooth muscle (except for the vascular system), and skin were also positive for POEM expression. Bacterial recombinant POEM protein containing the RGD sequence and MAM domain showed strong cell adhesion, spreading, and survival-promoting activities. By mutating the RGD sequence to RGE, the cell spreading and survival activities were significantly decreased, but the MAM domain was shown to contribute only to cell adhesion and not to cell spreading and survival-promoting activities. The distribution of POEM in several tissues was close to that of alpha(8)beta(1) integrin. Therefore, we conducted cell adhesion assays using KA8 cells, a K562 leukemia clone stably expressing alpha(8) integrin. Parental K562 cells, which expressed alpha(5)beta(1) integrin, bound to fibronectin but not to POEM. On the other hand, KA8 cells showed strong binding and spreading on both fibronectin and POEM. These results suggest that POEM is a novel ligand for alpha(8)beta(1) integrin and that POEM may be involved in the development and function of various tissues, such as kidney, bone, muscles, and endocrine organs.
MyoD-positive myoblasts are present in mature fetal organs lacking skeletal muscle.	The epiblast of the chick embryo gives rise to the ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm during gastrulation. Previous studies revealed that MyoD-positive cells were present throughout the epiblast, suggesting that skeletal muscle precursors would become incorporated into all three germ layers. The focus of the present study was to examine a variety of organs from the chicken fetus for the presence of myogenic cells. RT-PCR and in situ hybridizations demonstrated that MyoD-positive cells were present in the brain, lung, intestine, kidney, spleen, heart, and liver. When these organs were dissociated and placed in culture, a subpopulation of cells differentiated into skeletal muscle. The G8 antibody was used to label those cells that expressed MyoD in vivo and to follow their fate in vitro. Most, if not all, of the muscle that formed in culture arose from cells that expressed MyoD and G8 in vivo. Practically all of the G8-positive cells from the intestine differentiated after purification by FACS. This population of ectopically located cells appears to be distinct from multipotential stem cells and myofibroblasts. They closely resemble quiescent, stably programmed skeletal myoblasts with the capacity to differentiate when placed in a permissive environment.
Hepatic progenitor cells in hepatocellular adenomas.	Hepatocellular adenoma is a benign tumor of the liver that has a small but not negligible risk of malignant transformation into hepatocellular carcinoma. In analogy with the established role of oval cells in hepatocarcinogenesis in rodent models, human hepatic progenitor cells may have a function in the development of liver tumors. To investigate this issue, we performed immunohistochemistry on biopsies of 10 consecutively resected hepatocellular adenomas using markers for hepatic progenitor cells. Sections of paraffin-embedded and frozen biopsies were stained using antibodies against cytokeratins 7, 8, 18, and 19, chromogranin-A, OV-6, and neural cell adhesion molecule. Hepatic progenitor cells were observed in five of 10 hepatocellular adenomas. These five tumors also contained cells with an immunohistochemical phenotype intermediate between hepatic progenitor cells and hepatocytes. Hepatic progenitor cells and intermediate hepatocyte-like cells were scattered throughout the tumors with a density that varied from area to area. Ultrastructural examination confirmed the presence of hepatic progenitor cells. Our study shows that hepatic progenitor cells are present in a considerable proportion of hepatocellular adenomas, supporting the hypothesis that human hepatic progenitor cells can play a role in the development of hepatocellular tumors.
Identification of a novel voltage-gated Na+ channel rNa(v)1.5a in the rat hippocampal progenitor stem cell line HiB5.	A conditionally immortalised cell line, HiB5, derived from embryonic hippocampal precursor cells expressed a voltage-gated Na+ channel with electrophysiological characteristics shifted to more negative voltages and a lower sensitivity to tetrodotoxin [concentration required for half-maximal inhibition (IC50) 0.9 microM] compared with endogenous neuronal Na+ channels. The channel activation and steady-state inactivation occurred at very negative potentials with the threshold for activation at -55 mV and half-maximal inactivation at -78.7 mV. The channel was blocked by lamotrigine and sipatrigine voltage and state dependently, with potencies 5-20 times higher (IC50 12 and 1.8 microM at -80 mV respectively) than the corresponding block of endogenous Na+ channels from neurones and cloned rNa(v)1.2a (rBIIA) alpha-subunits. Both compounds slowed the channel's recovery from inactivation. Whereas lamotrigine and sipatrigine had similar effects on the fast inactivated state, the effect of sipatrigine on the slow inactivation state was more pronounced, rendering this compound overall the more effective. The molecular subtype mainly expressed by HiB5 cells was identified using RT-PCR and was a novel splice variant of rNa(v)1.5 (rNa(v)1.5a). It differs from the known rNa(v)1.5 version in that it lacks 53 amino acids in the intracellular loop between domains II and III. rNa(v)1.5a was also detected in mRNA derived from rat whole brain.
Mouse NG2+ oligodendrocyte precursors express mRNA for proteolipid protein but not its DM-20 variant: a study of laser microdissection-captured NG2+ cells.	Despite recent advances in our understanding of lineage of oligodendrocytes, detailed molecular characterization of this lineage in vivo is limited, primarily because of our inability to obtain a pure population of cells in situ. To define the molecular characteristics of oligodendrocyte lineage cells during development and their response to injury, we developed a strategy that uses laser capture microdissection (LCM) to isolate cells from sections and reverse transcription-PCR to determine mRNA expression. As a first step, we examined the expression of myelin-specific protein genes in NG2+ cells in cerebral cortex. We demonstrate that NG2+ cells in both developing and adult mice express NG2 mRNA but not mRNA for proteins specific for astrocytes, neurons, or microglia, indicating that a highly pure population of antigen-specific cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage can be obtained using LCM. Furthermore, we show that NG2+ cells express mRNAs for proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin basic protein, and 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase, but they dot not express DM-20 mRNA, a PLP mRNA splicing variant. Our data demonstrate that antigen-specific cells of oligodendrocyte lineage differentially express mRNA for myelin-specific proteins and their variants in vivo, partly define the gene expression in NG2+ cells, and raise questions about the cellular sites of DM-20 expression. This work also shows that LCM is a valuable tool to define and analyze gene expression in the cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage.
Protein abundance quantification in embryonic stem cells using incomplete metabolic labelling with 15N amino acids, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry, and analysis of relative isotopologue abundances of peptides.	An isotope dilution method for protein quantification is presented in the context of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS) and mass fingerprinting experiments, revealing an unappreciated high reproducibility and accuracy of relative peak intensity measurements. Labelled proteins were generated by growing cells in a medium containing (15)N-enriched amino acids, and were mixed with proteins of natural isotopic composition from control cells in ratios of approximately 0:1, 1:7, 1:2, 2:1, 7:1, and 1:0 (labelled/unlabelled). Mixtures were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and analysed by MALDI-TOFMS using typical experimental conditions. A linear relationship is demonstrated between the relative isotopologue abundances (RIA values) for particular peaks in the isotopic distribution of tryptic peptide fragments of the proteins, and the mole fractions of labelled proteins in the mixture. Analysis of RIA values (ARIA quantification) for peptides of six typical silver-stained protein spots for the various mixtures could reproduce the experimentally contrived ratios with approximate errors between 4% (2:1 mixture) and about 18% (1:7 mixture). A consideration of error and its propagation is discussed. ARIA does not require complete separation of the isotope patterns of labelled and unlabelled peptides, and is therefore advantageous in combination with all kinds of labelling experiments in biological systems, because it is compatible with minimal metabolic incorporation of labelling reagent. Simulations indicate that the minimum required (15)N enrichment of the total amino acid pool sufficient for ARIA is less than 4%. In an accompanying paper in this issue, we apply ARIA to proteins differentially labelled with isotope-coded alkylation reagents.
The stem-cell menagerie.	The numbers, types and locations of stem cells in the nervous system have been the subject of much discussion. This review summarizes data on the types of stem cell present at different stages of development and in the adult brain, and the markers suggested to distinguish between the various possibilities that have been reported. We present evidence that more than one class of stem cell is present in the developing and adult nervous systems, and that it might be possible to distinguish between stem-cell populations and to localize the cell of origin of a particular neurosphere, based on markers that persist in culture and by using universal stem-cell markers prospectively to identify stem cells in vivo.
The culture and establishment of embryonic germ (EG) cell lines from Chinese mini swine.	As a part of a basic research project on Xeno-transplantion, we have been engaged in the derivation of embryonic stem cell lines from Chinese mini swine. Here, we reported for the first time the establishment of two porcine EG cell lines (BPEG1 and BPEG2) from primordial germ cells of genital ridges of a 28 and a 27 d embryos respectively. Their pluripotent nature has been identified by colony morphology, marker characterization as well as by in vitro and in vivo differentiation. These porcine EG cells are potentially useful for further basic studies.
Expression of classical cadherins in thyroid development: maintenance of an epithelial phenotype throughout organogenesis.	The long distance between the final location of the thyroid gland in front of the trachea and the site of embryological specification at the tongue base suggests that active migration of the thyroid progenitor cells is required. During embryogenesis, similar morphogenetic events often involve epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), which promotes the acquisition of a migrating phenotype. EMT is characterized by an altered expression of cadherin cell adhesion molecules, most notably loss of E-cadherin. To investigate whether a similar mechanism operates in thyroid development, we studied the expression of classical cadherins in the thyroid primordium of mouse embryos by immunohistochemistry. E-Cadherin was expressed at high levels in thyroid cells at all developmental stages. In contrast, R-cadherin expression was induced in the embryonic thyroid coinciding with the onset of folliculogenesis and was maintained in the adult thyroid along with E-cadherin. N-Cadherin, often associated with increased migrating capacity, was not detected in the thyroid primordium, but was expressed in the surrounding mesenchyme. These findings indicate that the epithelial phenotype is maintained in thyroid progenitor cells throughout organogenesis and favor the idea that translocation of the developing thyroid does not involve active migration of individual cells, but rather is secondary to movements of surrounding tissues.
Selective expression of DM-20, an alternatively spliced myelin proteolipid protein gene product, in developing nervous system and in nonglial cells.	Mutations within the gene for myelin proteolipid protein (PLP), a major myelin structural protein, result in abnormal glial differentiation, suggesting that the PLP gene products play some other functional roles. Transcripts from the PLP gene were analyzed in the developing mouse brain by a sensitive method using polymerase chain reaction. The mRNA for DM-20, an alternatively spliced transcript from the PLP gene, was detected in the embryonic mouse brain as early as embryonic day 11, long before the appearance of oligodendrocytes, which were considered to be responsible for PLP production. PLP gene expression was analyzed in various cell lines to determine whether synthesis of the DM-20 mRNA is restricted to those of glial cell lineage. All of the nervous system cell lines examined, including nonglial cell lines, produced DM-20 mRNA but no or very little PLP mRNA. Peripheral sciatic nerve from adult Wistar rats also produced mainly DM-20 mRNA. These results indicate that DM-20 is not only a myelin structural protein, but it also plays other roles in the nervous system that seem to relate, at least in part, to glial differentiation.
Gene expression profiling in human preadipocytes and adipocytes by microarray analysis.	Uncontrolled expansion of adipose tissue leads to obesity, a public health epidemic affecting >30% of adult Americans. Adipose mass increases in part through the recruitment and differentiation of an existing pool of preadipocytes (PA) into adipocytes (AD). Most studies investigating adipogenesis used primarily murine cell lines; much less is known about the relevant processes that occur in humans. Therefore, characterization of genes associated with adipocyte development is key to understanding the pathogenesis of obesity and developing treatments for this disorder. To address this issue, we performed large-scale analyses of human adipose gene expression using microarray technology. Differential gene expression between PA and AD was analyzed in 6 female patients using human cDNA microarray slides and data analyzed using the Stanford Microarray Database. Statistical analysis for the gene expression was performed using the SAS mixed models. Compared with PA, several genes involved in lipid metabolism were overexpressed in AD, including fatty acid binding protein, adipose differentiation-related protein, lipoprotein lipase, perilipin, and adipose most abundant transcript 1. Novel genes expressed in adipocytes included E2F5 transcriptional factor and SMARC (SWI/SNF-related, matrix associated, actin-dependent regulator of chromatin). PA predominantly expressed genes encoding extracellular matrix components such as fibronectin, matrix metalloprotein, and novel proteins such as lysyl oxidase. Despite the high differential expression of some of these genes, many did not differ significantly likely due to high variability and limited statistical power. A comprehensive list of differential gene expression is presented according to cellular function. In conclusion, these studies offer an overview of the gene expression profiles in PA and AD and identify new genes with potentially important functions in adipose tissue development and obesity that merit further investigation.
The experimental study on the oval cells participating in hepatocarcinogenesis]	To explore the genesis of the oval cells in hepatic tissue and relationship between the hepatic oval cells and the primary hepatocarcinoma.
Derivation and characterization of monkey embryonic stem cells.	Embryonic stem (ES) cell based therapy carries great potential in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. However, before clinical application is realized, the safety, efficacy and feasibility of this therapeutic approach must be established in animal models. The rhesus macaque is physiologically and phylogenetically similar to the human, and therefore, is a clinically relevant animal model for biomedical research, especially that focused on neurodegenerative conditions. Undifferentiated monkey ES cells can be maintained in a pluripotent state for many passages, as characterized by a collective repertoire of markers representing embryonic cell surface molecules, enzymes and transcriptional factors. They can also be differentiated into lineage-specific phenotypes of all three embryonic germ layers by epigenetic protocols. For cell-based therapy, however, the quality of ES cells and their progeny must be ensured during the process of ES cell propagation and differentiation. While only a limited number of primate ES cell lines have been studied, it is likely that substantial inter-line variability exists. This implies that diverse ES cell lines may differ in developmental stages, lineage commitment, karyotypic normalcy, gene expression, or differentiation potential. These variables, inherited genetically and/or induced epigenetically, carry obvious complications to therapeutic applications. Our laboratory has characterized and isolated rhesus monkey ES cell lines from in vitro produced blastocysts. All tested cell lines carry the potential to form pluripotent embryoid bodies and nestin-positive progenitor cells. These ES cell progeny can be differentiated into phenotypes representing the endodermal, mesodermal and ectodermal lineages. This review article describes the derivation of monkey ES cell lines, characterization of the undifferentiated phenotype, and their differentiation into lineage-specific, particularly neural, phenotypes. The promises and limitations of primate ES cell-based therapy are also discussed.
A role for chemistry in stem cell biology.	Although stem cells hold considerable promise for the treatment of numerous diseases including cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative disease, musculoskeletal disease, diabetes and cancer, obstacles such as the control of stem cell fate, allogenic rejection and limited cell availability must be overcome before their therapeutic potential can be realized. This requires an improved understanding of the signaling pathways that affect stem cell fate. Cell-based phenotypic and pathway-specific screens of natural products and synthetic compounds have recently provided a number of small molecules that can be used to selectively control stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Examples include the selective induction of neurogenesis and cardiomyogenesis in murine embryonic stem cells, osteogenesis in mesenchymal stem cells and dedifferentiation in skeletal muscle cells. Such molecules will likely provide new insights into stem cell biology, and may ultimately contribute to effective medicines for tissue repair and regeneration.
Characterization of the survival motor neuron (SMN) promoter provides evidence for complex combinatorial regulation in undifferentiated and differentiated P19 cells.	There exist two SMN (survival motor neuron) genes in humans, the result of a 500 kb duplication in chromosome 5q13. Deletions/mutations in the SMN1 gene are responsible for childhood spinal muscular atrophy, an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder. While the SMN1 and SMN2 genes are not functionally equivalent, up-regulation of the SMN2 gene represents an important therapeutic target. Consequently, we exploited in silico, in vitro and in vivo approaches to characterize the core human and mouse promoters in undifferentiated and differentiated P19 cells. Phylogenetic comparison revealed four highly conserved regions that contained a number of cis-elements, only some of which were shown to activate/repress SMN promoter activity. Interestingly, the effect of two Sp1 cis-elements varied depending on the state of P19 cells and was only observed in combination with a neighbouring Ets cis-element. Electrophoretic mobility-shift assay and in vivo DNA footprinting provided evidence for DNA-protein interactions involving Sp, NF-IL6 and Ets cis-elements, whereas transient transfection experiments revealed complex interactions involving these recognition sites. SMN promoter activity was strongly regulated by an NF-IL6 response element and this regulation was potentiated by a downstream Ets element. In vivo results suggested that the NF-IL6 response must function either via a protein-tethered transactivation mechanism or a transcription factor binding an upstream element. Our results provide strong evidence for complex combinatorial regulation and suggest that the composition or state of the basal transcription complex binding to the SMN promoter is different between undifferentiated and differentiated P19 cells.
Human cord blood- and bone marrow-derived CD34+ cells regenerate gastrointestinal epithelial cells.	In the present study, we aimed to clarify the capacity of human cord blood- and bone marrow-derived progenitor cells to generate gastrointestinal epithelial cells in clinical and experimental transplantation settings. First, in a clinical transplantation setting, gastrointestinal tissues derived from female pediatric or juvenile recipients of allogeneic sex-mismatched bone marrow and cord blood transplantation were examined for the presence of donor-derived epithelial cells. Gastrointestinal specimens of allogeneic recipients included Y chromosome+ cytokeratin+ epithelial cells at a frequency of 0.4-1.9%. To further determine the capacity of purified human progenitor cells, human cord blood- or bone marrow-derived CD34+ cells were transplanted into newborn NOD/SCID/beta2-microglobulin(null) mice as an experimental transplantation assay. When gastrointestinal tissues derived from recipient mice were subjected to FISH and immunofluorescence analyses, human epithelial cells were identified at a frequency of 0.24-0.58% at 3 months posttransplantation. Finally, double FISH analyses using species-specific probes revealed that human chromosome+ epithelial cells did not possess any murine chromosomes, indicating that donor-derived epithelial cells were not generated only by cell fusion. On the basis of these findings, it is concluded that purified human cord blood and bone marrow CD34+ progenitor cells can generate gastrointestinal epithelial cells across allogeneic and xenogeneic histocompatibility barriers.
Generation of purified oligodendrocyte progenitors from embryonic stem cells.	Demyelination is a key component in the pathogenesis of many neurological disorders. Transplantation of myelinating cells may offer a therapeutic approach to restore neurological function in these diseases. Recent findings suggest that pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) cells can serve as an unlimited donor source for neural transplantation. The clinical application of ES cells for myelin repair will depend critically on the ability to enrich oligodendroglial progenitors in high purity. Combining controlled differentiation in the presence of growth factors and genetic lineage selection, we devised a cell culture protocol yielding highly purified oligodendrocyte progenitors. Murine ES cell clones stably transfected with a construct encoding the beta-galactosidase-neomycine phosphotransferase fusion protein (beta(geo)) under control of the 2'3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP) promoter were differentiated into bipotential glial precursors. Subsequent induction of a CNP-positive stage and selection in neomycine resulted in a homogenous cell population with a pre-oligodendrocyte phenotype. The selected cells continued to proliferate in the presence of FGF-2 and PDGF and, upon growth factor withdrawal, differentiated into mature galactocerebroside (GalC)-positive oligodendrocytes. Transplantation studies in myelin-deficient (md) rats indicate that ES cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitors generated with this method may serve as an attractive donor source for myelin repair.
Molecular evaluation of endothelial progenitor cells in patients with ischemic limbs: therapeutic effect by stem cell transplantation.	Although some patients with limb ischemia have recently undergone therapeutic angiogenesis by cell transplantation, their angiogenic potential has not been well characterized. It is also important to evaluate endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) contents in different stem cell sources to choose the best material for therapeutic angiogenesis.
Design principle of gene expression used by human stem cells: implication for pluripotency.	Human embryonic stem cells (ESC) are undifferentiated and are endowed with the capacities of self-renewal and pluripotential differentiation. Adult stem cells renew their own tissue, but whether they can transdifferentiate to other tissues is still controversial. To understand the genetic program that underlies the pluripotency of stem cells, we compared the transcription profile of ESC with that of progenitor/stem cells of human hematopoietic and keratinocytic origins, along with their mature cells to be viewed as snapshots along tissue differentiation. ESC gene profiles show higher complexity with significantly more highly expressed genes than adult cells. We hypothesize that ESC use a strategy of expressing genes that represent various differentiation pathways and selection of only a few for continuous expression upon differentiation to a particular target. Such a strategy may be necessary for the pluripotency of ESC. The progenitors of either hematopoietic or keratinocytic cells also follow the same design principle. Using advanced clustering, we show that many of the ESC expressed genes are turned off in the progenitors/stem cells followed by a further down-regulation in adult tissues. Concomitantly, genes specific to the target tissue are up-regulated toward mature cells of skin or blood.
Cells expressing early cardiac markers reside in the bone marrow and are mobilized into the peripheral blood after myocardial infarction.	The concept that bone marrow (BM)-derived cells participate in cardiac regeneration remains highly controversial and the identity of the specific cell type(s) involved remains unknown. In this study, we report that the postnatal BM contains a mobile pool of cells that express early cardiac lineage markers (Nkx2.5/Csx, GATA-4, and MEF2C). These cells are present in significant amounts in BM harvested from young mice but their abundance decreases with age; in addition, the responsiveness of these cells to gradients of motomorphogens SDF-1, HGF, and LIF changes with age. FACS analysis, combined with analysis of early cardiac markers at the mRNA and protein levels, revealed that cells expressing these markers reside in the nonadherent, nonhematopoietic CXCR4+/Sca-1+/lin-/CD45- mononuclear cell (MNC) fraction in mice and in the CXCR4+/CD34+/AC133+/CD45- BMMNC fraction in humans. These cells are mobilized into the peripheral blood after myocardial infarction and chemoattracted to the infarcted myocardium in an SDF-1-CXCR4-, HGF-c-Met-, and LIF-LIF-R-dependent manner. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that the postnatal BM harbors a nonhematopoietic population of cells that express markers for cardiac differentiation. We propose that these potential cardiac progenitors may account for the myocardial regenerative effects of BM. The present findings provide a novel paradigm that could reconcile current controversies and a rationale for investigating the use of BM-derived cardiac progenitors for myocardial regeneration.
Distinctive properties of human adult brain-derived myelin progenitor cells.	We used expression of the ganglioside A2B5 to isolate putative myelin progenitor cells from adult human central nervous system parenchyma and compared their phenotypic (expression of myelin lineage molecules) and functional (survival, proliferation) properties with mature oligodendrocytes (OLGs) derived from the same adult material and with A2B5(+) cells isolated from human fetal brain. A2B5(+) cells represented 3 to 5% of the total cell suspension derived from adult specimens. Results of protein (immunostaining) and RNA (polymerase chain reaction) analyses indicated that the adult A2B5(+) cells were more committed to the OLG lineage than their fetal counterparts while continuing to retain properties of progenitor cells compared to the postmitotic mature OLGs. Although the adult A2B5(+) cells retained the capacity to divide, albeit at a reduced rate compared to fetal A2B5(+) cells, they showed reduced survival and process outgrowth compared not only to fetal cells but also to mature OLGs. Our results confirm the presence of progenitor cells committed to the OLG lineage in the adult human central nervous system but raise the issues regarding the intrinsic capacity of these cells to contribute to the process of remyelination that may be necessary during demyelinating diseases.
Available human feeder cells for the maintenance of human embryonic stem cells.	Mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) have been previously used as feeder cells to support the growth of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). In this study, human adult uterine endometrial cells (hUECs), human adult breast parenchymal cells (hBPCs) and embryonic fibroblasts (hEFs) were tested as feeder cells for supporting the growth of hESCs to prevent the possibility of contamination from animal feeder cells. Cultured hUECs, hBPCs and hEFs were mitotically inactivated and then plated. hESCs (Miz-hES1, NIH registered) initially established on mouse feeder layers were transferred onto each human feeder layer and split every 5 days. The morphology, expression of specific markers and differentiation capacity of hESCs adapted on each human feeder layer were examined. On hUEC, hBPC and hEF feeder layers, hESCs proliferated for more than 90, 50 and 80 passages respectively. Human feeder-based hESCs were positive for stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-3 and -4, and Apase; they also showed similar differentiation capacity to MEF-based hESCs, as assessed by the formation of teratomas and expression of tissue-specific markers. However, hESCs cultured on hUEC and hEF feeders were slightly thinner and flatter than MEF- or hBPC-based hESCs. Our results suggest that, like MEF feeder layers, human feeder layers can support the proliferation of hESCs without differentiation. Human feeder cells have the advantage of supporting more passages than when MEFs are used as feeder cells, because hESCs can be uniformly maintained in the undifferentiated stage until they pass through senescence. hESCs established and/or maintained under stable xeno-free culture conditions will be helpful to cell-based therapy.
Co-localization of nestin and insulin and expression of islet cell markers in long-term human pancreatic nestin-positive cell cultures.	Strategies to differentiate progenitor cells into beta cells in vitro have been considered as an alternative to increase beta cell availability prior to transplantation. It has recently been suggested that nestin-positive cells could be multipotential stem cells capable of expressing endocrine markers upon specific stimulation; however, this issue still remains controversial. Here, we characterized short- and long-term islet cell cultures derived from three different human islet preparations, with respect to expression of nestin and islet cell markers, using confocal microscopy and semi-quantitative RT-PCR. The number of nestin-positive cells was found to be strikingly high in long-term cultures. In addition, a large proportion (49.7%) of these nestin-positive cells, present in long-term culture, are shown to be proliferative, as judged by BrdU incorporation. The proportion of insulin-positive cells was found to be high in short-term (up to 28 days) cultures and declined thereafter, when cells were maintained in the presence of 10% serum, concomitantly with the decrease in insulin and PDX-1 expression. Interestingly, insulin and nestin co-expression was observed as a rare event in a small proportion of cells present in freshly isolated human islets as well as in purified islet cells cultured in vitro for long periods of time. In addition, upon long-term subculturing of nestin-positive cells in 10% serum, we observed reappearance of insulin expression at the mRNA level; when these cultures were shifted to 1% serum for a month, expression of insulin, glucagon and somatostatin was also detected, indicating that manipulating the culture conditions can be used to modulate the nestin-positive cell's fate. Attempts to induce cell differentiation by plating nestin-positive cells onto Matrigel revealed that these cells tend to aggregate to form islet-like clusters, but this is not sufficient to increase insulin expression upon short-term culture. Our data corroborate previous findings indicating that, at least in vitro, nestin-positive cells may undergo the early stages of differentiation to an islet cell phenotype and that long-term cultures of nestin-positive human islet cells may be considered as a potential source of precursor cells to generate fully differentiated/ functional beta cells.
Inhibitors of protein phosphatase-2A from human brain structures, immunocytological localization and activities towards dephosphorylation of the Alzheimer type hyperphosphorylated tau.	Protein phosphatase (PP)-2A, which regulates the phosphorylation of tau, is regulated by two endogenous inhibitor proteins, I(1)(PP2A) and I(2)(PP2A), in mammalian tissues. Here, we report the cloning of I(1)(PP2A) and I(2)(PP2A) from human brain, and show that in PC12 cells and in I(1)(PP2A)-GFP or I(2)(PP2A)-GFP transfected NIH3T3 and human neural progenitor cells, I(1)(PP2A) is localized mostly in the cell cytoplasm and I(2)(PP2A) mostly in the nucleus. The recombinant I(1)(PP-2A) and I(2)(PP-2A) inhibit PP-2A activity towards hyperphosphorylated tau in vitro; the dephosphorylation of the hyperphosphorylated tau at specific sites is selectively inhibited. Overexpression of I(1)(PP2A) as well as I(2)(PP2A) results in tau hyperphosphorylation and degeneration of PC 12 cells.
Multistep differentiation of GH-producing cells from their immature cells.	In order to study GH cell differentiation, we used the clonal cell lines called MtT/E and MtT/S cells, which were derived from a rat mammotrophic pituitary tumor. Although MtT/E cells are non-hormone-producing ones, Pit-1 protein is present in their nuclei, which suggests that MtT/E cells are progenitor cells of the Pit-1 cell lineage and have the potential to differentiate into hormone-producing cells. On the other hand, MtT/S cells produce GH; however, the responsiveness to GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) is weak and only a small number of secretory granules are present in their cytoplasm, which suggests that MtT/S cells are premature GH cells. In order to differentiate into GH cells from MtT/E cells as a progenitor cell, we examined several differentiation factors and found that retinoic acid (RA) induced the differentiation of MtT/E cells into GH-producing cells. RA-induced GH cells partially matured with the glucocorticoid treatment; however, the responsiveness to GHRH on GH secretion was incomplete. In order to elucidate the mechanism underlying full differentiation of GH cells, we used MtT/S cells. We treated MtT/S cells with glucocorticoid and found that they differentiated into mature GH cells with many secretory granules in their cytoplasm and they responded well to GHRH. These results suggested that MtT/E and MtT/S cells are progenitor or premature GH cells, and show different responses to differentiation factors. Our data also suggested that GH cells differentiate from their progenitor cells through multistep processes.
Proteomic changes during the B cell development.	An antibody-secreting B cell is derived from a lymphoid stem cell through a series of developmental stages: progenitor B cell (pro-B cell), precursor B cell (pre-B) cell, immature B cell and mature B cell stage. The gene rearrangement of antigen receptor genes and their expression on the cell surface are crucial regulation steps cells to develop to the next stage. This control mechanism occurs at the sequential manner during the B cell development. Proteomic approach using two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry makes possible to analyze the expression pattern of total proteins at each developmental stage and isolate proteins differentially expressed in B cells. Some transcriptional factors such E2A and Pax5 are expressed at the earlier stages of B cell development and repressed at later developmental stages. RAD52-related protein and chromatin assembly factor 1 are dominantly expressed at early B cells undergoing DNA rearrangement. These comparative analyses of total proteins in each B cell can provide some crucial information to understand the molecular basis of B cell ontogeny.
Human herpesvirus-8 infection of umbilical cord-blood-derived CD34+ stem cells enhances the immunostimulatory function of their dendritic cell progeny.	CD34(+) progenitor cells carrying human herpesvirus-8, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (HHV-8/KSHV), have been described in the peripheral blood of AIDS patients suffering from Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). In this study, we investigated the influence of HHV-8 on the differentiation of CD34(+) progenitor cells. Native CD34(+) cells derived from cord blood could be infected by a laboratory strain of HHV-8, as shown by immunofluorescence staining and polymerase chain reaction, but no significant initial maturation/differentiation effects were observed. In addition, these infected cells were differentiated into immature and mature dendritic cells (DCs) using cytokine induction with recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGm-CSF), recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (rhTNF-alpha) and recombinant human stem cell factor (rhSCF). Double immunofluorescence and flow cytometry studies demonstrated that virus infection did not impair the development of immature and mature DC populations. Subsequently, the immunostimulating capacity of DC populations was tested in a mixed lymphocyte reaction using allogeneic T-cells. The HHV-8-infected CD34(+) progenitor cell-derived mature DC population showed a significantly enhanced antigen-presenting capacity, compared to non-infected DCs, which was not observed with the immature DCs. This suggests stimulation of DC function by HHV-8 infection. Because there are only a small percentage of HHV-8-positive DCs in the preparations and because it is not clear whether infection is abortive or productive to some extent, this seems to be most likely due to an indirect viral effect.
Detection of circulating endothelial cells and endothelial progenitor cells by flow cytometry.	The finding of angiogenic and vasculogenic cells in the peripheral circulation may have profound effects on the course of a variety of diseases ranging from cancer to cardiovascular disease. These cells are ascribed to be endothelial in nature and are generally referred to as circulating endothelial cells if mature or as endothelial progenitor cells if immature. Different approaches have been used to detect these cells, including in vitro culture, magnetic bead isolation, and flow cytometry. We review flow cytometric methods for the detection and enumeration of these cells and provide technical suggestions to promote the accurate enumeration of circulating endothelial cells and endothelial progenitor cells.
Assays for measuring extracellular GABA levels and cell migration rate in acute slices.	The postnatal subventricular zone (SVZ) contains the largest pool of dividing and migrating neural precursors in the adult rodent brain. Neuronal precursors migrate throughout the SVZ and along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) towards the olfactory bulb where they differentiate into interneurons. To facilitate the investigation of cell migration in the SVZ and RMS, an inexpensive migration assay was developed for use in acute brain slices. Acute sagittal slices were kept at 37 degrees C in 5% O2/95% CO2-saturated solution and migrating cells in the SVZ and RMS were visualized using an upright infrared-differential interference contrast microscope. Time-lapse movies were acquired to identify the direction and measure the speed of cell migration. The neurotransmitter GABA and inhibitors of GABA receptors or transporters can be bath applied to determine the function of endogenous GABA on the direction and speed of cell migration. In parallel, the levels of endogenous GABA released from acute SVZ or RMS explants were measured with mass spectrometry. Additional techniques such as electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry confirmed the identity of cells as neuronal precursors and characterized the expression of GABA receptors and transporters. This report describes how modulations in the direction and speed of neuronal precursor migration can be accurately monitored and how changes in local GABA levels can be measured. The described techniques can be used to identify the endogenous factors that regulate cell migration. Identifying such factors is essential for the future therapeutic use of SVZ cells to replace damaged or lost cells.
Outcomes and DNA analysis of ex vivo expanded stem cell allograft for ocular surface reconstruction.	To investigate the outcome of a new technique of ex vivo expanded stem cell allograft for limbal stem cell deficiency (LSCD), and to characterize the ocular surface genotype after surgery.
Identification of cardiac stem cells with FLK1, CD31, and VE-cadherin expression during embryonic stem cell differentiation.	We evaluated the expression of the FLK1, one of the lateral mesoderm early markers where cardiogenesis occurs, to characterize and isolate cardiac stem/progenitor cells from ES cells. Dissociated cells from embryoid bodies (EBs) on day 3, 4, or 5 were collected into two subpopulations with or without FLK1 expression and coculture on OP9 stromal cells was continued to examine whether contracting colonies came out or not. FLK1+ cells from EBs at days 3 and 4 formed spontaneous contracting colonies more efficiently than FLK1- cells on the same days, but not at day 5. Most contracting cardiac colonies derived from FLK1+cells mainly on day 4 were detected on endothelial cells along with hematopoietic cells. Further characterization of cells with these capabilities into three lineages revealed the FLK1+ CD31-VE-cadherin-phenotype. Our findings indicate that FLK1+cells, especially FLK1+ CD31-VE-cadherin-cells, could act as cardiohemangioblasts to form cardiac cells as well as endothelial cells and hematopoietic cells.
Repair of infarcted myocardium mediated by transplanted bone marrow-derived CD34+ stem cells in a nonhuman primate model.	Rodent and human clinical studies have shown that transplantation of bone marrow stem cells to the ischemic myocardium results in improved cardiac function. In this study, cynomolgus monkey acute myocardial infarction was generated by ligating the left anterior descending artery, and autologous CD34(+) cells were transplanted to the peri-ischemic zone. To track the in vivo fate of transplanted cells, CD34(+) cells were genetically marked with green fluorescent protein (GFP) using a lentivirus vector before transplantation (marking efficiency, 41% on average). The group receiving cells (n = 4) demonstrated improved regional blood flow and cardiac function compared with the saline-treated group (n =4) at 2 weeks after transplant. However, very few transplanted cell-derived, GFP-positive cells were found incorporated into the vascular structure, and GFP-positive cardiomyocytes were not detected in the repaired tissue. On the other hand, cultured CD34(+) cells were found to secrete vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and the in vivo regional VEGF levels showed a significant increase after the transplantation. These results suggest that the improvement is not the result of generation of transplanted cell-derived endothelial cells or cardiomyocytes; and raise the possibility that angiogenic cytokines secreted from transplanted cells potentiate angiogenic activity of endogenous cells.
Induction of oligodendrocytes from adult human olfactory epithelial-derived progenitors by transcription factors.	Neurosphere-forming cell (NSFC) lines have been derived from cultures of adult olfactory neuroepithelium obtained from patients and cadavers. These progenitors remain undifferentiated when maintained in minimal essential medium with 10% fetal bovine serum, but have the potential to differentiate along glial or neuronal lineages. However, few of these cells ever express mature neuronal or glial markers in defined medium. To evaluate the potential of NSFCs to form oligodendrocytes, two transcription factors, Olig2 and Nkx2.2, were introduced into NSFCs to determine whether their expression is sufficient for oligodendrocyte differentiation, as has been shown in the embryonic avian and murine central nervous systems in vivo. NSFCs transfected with Olig2 or Nkx2.2 alone exhibited no phenotypic lineage restriction. In contrast, simultaneous transfection of Olig2 and Nkx2.2 cDNA produced characteristic oligodendrocyte morphology and antigenicity, including myelin basic protein (MBP). Furthermore, a population of Olig2-expressing NSFCs also expressed Sox10. Cotransfection of NSFCs with Nkx2.2 and Sox10, but not Olig2 and Sox10, produced a MBP(+) oligodendrocytic phenotype. Coculture of NSFCs transfected with Olig2 and Nkx2.2 or Nkx2.2 and Sox10 with purified sensory neurons, demonstrated frequent contacts between NSFC processes and axons, including the early stages of ensheathment. These studies demonstrate transcription factors governing early development of chick and mouse oligodendrocyte formation, also apply to human progenitors isolated from adult olfactory neuroepithelium. Our long-term goal is to develop cell populations for future studies used to determine the therapeutic utility of these olfactory-derived NSFCs for autologous transplantation into donors with central nervous system trauma or neurodegenerative diseases.
Expression of immunohistochemical differentiation markers in normal and transformed neoplastic neuroectodermal stem cells]	The cells of primitive neuroectodermal tumours may undergo differentiation and, eventually, may be transformed to neurons, glial cells, and ependymal cells. Early stages of neuroectodermal differentiation may primarily be determined by means of immunohistochemical methods. Immunohistochemical investigations were performed on brains of human foetuses obtained from the 18th to 36th weeks of pregnancy, with a view to elucidating the process of maturation during foetal development and to determining the antigens identifiable in cells in the course of differentiation, following fixation in formalin and embedding in paraffin. Gliafibrillar acid protein (GFAP) and vimentin proved to be of particularly high stability and, consequently, were easily detectable from paraffin material. The same antigens were focally recordable also from eight of 17 primitive neuroectodermal tumours. Clues were rare in these tumours as to neuronal differentiation. This was attributed to instability of neurofilament proteins under conditions of formalin fixation and paraffin embedding.
Chromosomal aberrations involving telomeres in BRCA1 deficient human and mouse cell lines.	Cells defective in BRCA1 show genomic instability as evidenced by increased radiosensitivity, the presence of chromosomal abnormalities and the loss of heterozygosity at many loci. Reported chromosomal abnormalities in BRCA1 deficient cells include dicentric chromosomes. Dicentric chromosomes, in some cases, may arise as a result of end-to-end chromosome fusions, which represent signatures of telomere dysfunction. In this study we examined BRCA1 deficient human and mouse cells for the presence of chromosomal aberrations indicative of telomere dysfunction. We identified a lymphoblastoid cell line, GM14090, established from a BRCA1 carrier that showed elevated levels of dicentric chromosomes. Molecular cytogenetic analysis revealed that these dicentric chromosomes result from end-to-end chromosome fusions. The frequency of end-to-end chromosome fusions did not change after exposure of GM14090 cells to bleomycin but we observed elevated levels of chromosomal abnormalities involving interactions between DNA double strand breaks and uncapped telomeres in this cell line. We observed similar chromosomal abnormalities involving telomeres in the breast cancer cell line, HCC1937, homozygous for BRCA1 mutation. Finally, we analyzed mouse embryonic stem cells lacking functional Brca1 and observed the presence of telomere dysfunction following exposure of these cells to bleomycin. Our results reveal cytogenetic evidence of telomere dysfunction in BRCA1 deficient cells.
Isolation of the choanocyte in the fresh water sponge, Ephydatia fluviatilis and its lineage marker, Ef annexin.	In order to investigate the cellular system of the freshwater sponge, Ephydatia fluviatilis, we isolated a molecular marker for the most prominent cell type, the choanocyte. After feeding sponge with fluorescent beads, fluorescent-labeled choanocytes were collected by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). By protein profiling choanocyte and archeocyte (stem cell)-rich fractions, proteins characteristic of choanocyte were identified. The partial amino-acid sequence of one of the proteins characteristic of choanocyte matches the deduced amino-acid sequence of sponge expression tag (EST) clones and mouse annexin VII. These EST clones overlap and encode a protein, designated Ef annexin, which includes four annexin domains. Whole mount in situ hybridization shows Ef annexin expression in chamber-forming choanocytes in 7-day-old sponge, leading us to conclude that Ef annexin can be used as a choanocyte marker. In the early development stage, Ef annexin expression can be detected in both large single cells, characteristic of archeocytes, and cells forming 2-, 4- and multiple-cell clusters. These results indicate that Ef annexin is initially expressed in the choanocyte-committed archeocyte which then undergoes several mitotic cell divisions to form a choanocyte chamber. This suggests that the single choanocyte chamber essentially originates from a single archeocyte.
Efficient gene transfer to human epidermal keratinocytes on fibronectin: in vitro evidence for transduction of epidermal stem cells.	The epidermis is an attractive target for gene therapy because it is easily accessible and has great potential as an ectopic site for protein delivery in vivo. Genetically modified keratinocytes can be expanded in culture and used to generate three-dimensional skin equivalents, which can deliver therapeutic proteins either locally or systemically for the treatment of wounds or systemic diseases. Here we present an optimum protocol that yields consistently high retroviral gene transfer on a substrate of recombinant fibronectin (rFN). Gene transfer on rFN depends strongly on virus concentration and the density of target cells. Interestingly, the kinetics of gene transfer varies depending upon the origin--mouse or human--of virus-producer cells. Most notably, long-term growth and clonogenic assays show that transduction on rFN promotes gene transfer to epidermal stem cells and prevents loss of clonogenic potential due to exposure of cells to retroviral supernatant. In contrast, the traditional protocol transduces mostly differentiated keratinocytes. We also show that skin equivalents prepared from genetically modified keratinocytes display high levels of transgene expression, mainly in the suprabasal layers. Our results are important for cutaneous gene therapy and for biological studies that require efficient and permanent genetic modification.
Expression of early transcription factors Oct-4, Sox-2 and Nanog by porcine umbilical cord (PUC) matrix cells.	Three transcription factors that are expressed at high levels in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are Nanog, Oct-4 and Sox-2. These transcription factors regulate the expression of other genes during development and are found at high levels in the pluripotent cells of the inner cell mass. The downregulation of these three transcription factors correlates with the loss of pluripotency and self-renewal, and the beginning of subsequent differentiation steps. The roles of Nanog, Oct-4 and Sox-2 have not been fully elucidated. They are important in embryonic development and maintenance of pluripotency in ESCs. We studied the expression of these transcription factors in porcine umbilical cord (PUC) matrix cells.
Circulating endothelial cells and endothelial progenitor cells: two sides of the same coin, or two different coins?	Circulating endothelial cells (CECs) and endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are two populations of recently discovered endothelioid cells present in the blood. The former are thought to arise from the intima, the latter from the bone marrow. However, it is becoming clear that these are not in fact homogenous populations (e.g. differing degrees of apoptosis, necrosis and viability, differing expression of monocyte markers) but do in fact represent more than one species of endothelioid cell. Thus whilst originally defined by different criteria (e.g. CD146 by immunobeads, CD34 by flow cytometry) and the perception of independence, there is also growing evidence of some degree of commonality, i.e. some cells co-expressing CD146 and CD34. Furthermore, relationships between these two cells types and, for example, plasma and physiological indicators of vascular damage, and the risk factors for atherosclerosis, suggest a potential role for these cells in the pathophysiology of this disease, possibly as markers. The current document reviews this evidence, presenting a view of some degree of shared ancestry that may have implications for pathophysiology and cell biology.
Co-expression of PDGF alpha receptor and NG2 by oligodendrocyte precursors in human CNS and multiple sclerosis lesions.	Following inflammatory demyelination in multiple sclerosis (MS), partial remyelination occurs. Studies in rodents have indicated that oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are responsible for this remyelination. Rodent OPCs are identified in situ with antibodies against platelet-derived growth factor alpha receptor (PDGFalphaR) and NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. In human CNS tissue, studies of NG2 and PDGFalphaR expression are limited and controversy exists as to whether these molecules are specific OPC markers. This study has investigated whether PDGFalphaR and NG2 are co-expressed on OPCs in human CNS, and whether OPCs are associated with remyelination in MS. MS brain tissue was examined for PDGFalphaR and NG2 immunoreactivity and for expression of NG2 mRNA by in situ hybridisation. Putative OPCs, expressing both NG2 and PDGFalphaR, were present within normal-appearing white matter and within areas of active demyelination in MS, but not in chronic silent lesions. They were also seen in association with remyelination in MS tissue and with developmental myelination in human spinal cord. NG2+ cells that did not express PDGFalphaR were also detected. Given their lack of reactivity with microglial or astrocyte markers, these NG2+/PDGFalphaR- cells probably represented more mature OPCs that had lost PDGFalphaR expression. The distribution of OPCs observed in this study strongly suggests these cells are potential sources of remyelinating oligodendrocytes in active lesions in MS.
Characterisation of progenitor cells in human atherosclerotic vessels.	Recent data from animal models has demonstrated that both endothelial and smooth muscle progenitor cells contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. However, no data exists concerning the presence of progenitor cells in human atherosclerotic vessels. In the present study, a range of normal and atherosclerotic human arteries were collected from patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. Segments of internal mammary artery (normal controls), and segments of proximal ascending aorta with visible fatty streak were analysed. Immunofluorescence was used to detect a panel of progenitor cell markers. A small number of progenitor cells were identified within neointimal lesions and the adventitia with variable expression of CD34, stem cell antigen (Sca-1), c-kit and VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) markers, but no CD133 expression. On average there was a two- to three-fold increase in progenitor cell number in the adventitia of atherosclerotic vessels compared with normal controls, with a significant difference (p<0.05) in the frequency of cells expressing VEGFR2. Thus, we have provided the first evidence that vascular progenitor cells exist within atherosclerotic lesions, and identified an increased number of progenitor cells in the adventitia of human atherosclerotic vessels. These cells might be a source for smooth muscle cells (SMCs), macrophages and endothelial cells (ECs) that form atherosclerotic lesions.
The clinicopathological and prognostic relevance of cytokeratin 7 and 19 expression in hepatocellular carcinoma. A possible progenitor cell origin.	Cytokeratin (CK) 7 and CK19 expression, present in hepatic progenitor cells (HPCs) and in cholangiocytes but not in normal hepatocytes, has been reported in some hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs); however, the incidence and relevance of this expression in HCC in Caucasians is not known. Therefore, our aim was to study the occurrence and clinicopathological characteristics of HCC expressing CK7 and/or CK19 in 109 Caucasian patients.
CDH1 is a specific marker for undifferentiated spermatogonia in mouse testes.	In the mammalian testis, spermatogenesis is initiated from a subset of stem cells belonging to undifferentiated type A spermatogonia. In spite of the biologic significance of undifferentiated type A spermatogonia, little is known about their behavior and properties because of a lack of specific cell surface markers. Here we show that CDH1 (previously known as E-cadherin) is expressed specifically in undifferentiated type A spermatogonia in the mouse testis. Histologic analysis showed that CDH1-positive cells had all the characteristics of undifferentiated type A spermatogonia. Whole-mount immunohistochemistry showed that CDH1-positive cells made clusters mainly comprising one, two, four, or eight cells. They survived after administration of the cytotoxic agent busulfan to mice, and then regenerated seminiferous epithelia. Transplantation experiments showed that only CDH1-positive cells had colonizing activity in the recipient testis. Our data clearly demonstrated that spermatogenic stem cells reside among undifferentiated type A spermatogonia, which express CDH1.
Existence of small slow-cycling Langerhans cells in the limbal basal epithelium that express ABCG2.	Despite the obvious importance of limbal stem cells in corneal homeostasis and tumorigenesis, little is known about their specific biological characteristics. The purpose of this study was to characterize limbal slow-cycling cells based on the expression of ABCG2 and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II and the cell size. Wistar rats were daily injected with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) at a dose of 5 mg/100 g for 2 weeks. After 4-week BrdU-free period, corneal tissues were excised, and immunofluorescence staining for ABCG2, BrdU, and MHC class II was performed by confocal microscopy. In another series, corneal tissues of normal rat were double immunostained for ABCG2, keratin 14, keratin 3, CD11c, and MHC class II. In addition, limbal, peripheral and central corneal epithelial sheets were isolated by Dispase II digestion and dissociated into single cell by trypsin digestion and cytospin preparations were double immunostained for ABCG2 and MHC class II. The cell size and nucleus-to-cytoplasm (N/C) ratio of limbal ABCG2+ cells were analyzed and compared with those of cells from other zones. BrdU label-retaining cells (LRCs) with expression of ABCG2 were found in the limbal epithelial basal layer, but not in other parts of the cornea. Approximately 20% of these cells were MHC class II positive. All MHC class II+ cells in the corneal epithelium were positive for CD11c, a marker for dendritic cells (DCs). Double labeling with ABCG2 and keratin 14 showed that nearly four-fifth of limbal ABCG2+ cells were positive for keratin 14 but negative for keratin 3, exhibiting an undifferentiated epithelial cell lineage. Cytospin sample analysis revealed the presence of a distinct population of smaller ABCG2+ cells with expression of MHC class II with a larger N/C ratio in the limbal epithelium. A new population of small slow-cycling cells with large N/C ratio has been found to express ABCG2 in the limbal epithelial basal layer. Some of these cells normally express MHC class II antigen. These findings may have important implications for our understanding of the characteristics of limbal slow-cycling cells.
Hormonal status modulates circulating endothelial progenitor cells.	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) may have an important role in vascular homeostasis and repair.
2-DE analysis of a new human cell line EM-G3 derived from breast cancer progenitor cells and comparison with normal mammary epithelial cells.	We performed a 2-DE analysis of proteins of the newly established spontaneously immortalized clonal cell line EM-G3 derived from a primary lesion of infiltrating ductal breast carcinoma. EM-G3 cells may represent progenitors of the mammary epithelial cells spontaneously immortalized in early phase of cancerogenesis. We compared the protein profile of EM-G3 line with proteins from populations of normal mammary epithelial cells (NME), and determined the phenotype of both types of cells. NME cells are a mixture of both main cell types in breast epithelia, myoepithelial and luminal cells. The EM-G3 breast cancer cell line has a unique basal-like phenotype. We identified proteins that are differently expressed in these cells. Cytokeratin 16, cytokeratin 19, squamous cell carcinoma antigen 1, caphepsin B and caspase 14 were predominantly expressed by NME cells. Cytokeratin 13, isoelectric variant of annexin 5, isoelectric variant of chloride intracellular channel protein 1, glyoxalase 1 and glutamine synthetase were predominantly expressed by EM-G3 cells. The proteins up-regulated in EM-G3 cells may represent potential protein markers of mammary epithelial cells progenitors and may be important in early phase of carcinogenesis.
Stem cell model of hematopoiesis.	Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) are characterized by their capacity of self-renewal, multi-lineage differentiation, and the ability to rescue lethally irradiated hosts. Both murine and human studies have attempted to characterize and purify HSC based on surface phenotypes, metabolic markers, in-vitro clonogenic and in-vivo competitive repopulation assays. The cell-fate of HSC is under intrinsic regulation by various transcription factors, including Hox and SCL genes, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors and telomerase, and extrinsic regulation by various signaling pathways involved in embryonic development, including the Notch, Wnt and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) pathways. Recent advances in genome research and gene profiling technologies have begun to unravel the regulatory mechanism of HSC by novel genes with hitherto unknown functions in hematopoiesis. The stem cell model of hematopoiesis has also shed light on the concepts of leukemic stem cells (LSC), which involves the presence of a rare population of cells that share the essential HSC attributes of self-renewing, replication and differentiation into progenies of leukemic blasts.
An immunocytochemical method for studying the kinetics of osteoclast nuclei on intact mouse parietal bone.	An immunocytochemical method using an antibody against 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine has been applied to the study of the kinetics of osteoclast nuclei on intact mouse parietal bones. Osteoclasts containing tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase show nuclei that are positive for the thymidine analogue within 24 hours of injection into four-day old mice. Labelled osteoclast nuclei decline in number with a half-life of 1.3 days, compatible with a random mechanism of cell death rather than a fixed lifespan. This is shorter than has previously been reported and the possible reasons for this are suggested. The main advantages compared with autoradiography are the shortened processing time and the large number of osteoclasts that can be examined per parietal bone.
Tracking the cell hierarchy in the human intestine using biochemical signatures derived by mid-infrared microspectroscopy.	Markers of gastrointestinal (GI) stem cells remain elusive. We employed synchrotron Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) microspectroscopy to derive mid-infrared (IR) spectra along the length of human GI crypts. Tissue sections (10-m thick) were floated onto BaF2 windows and image maps were acquired of small intestine and large bowel crypts in transmission mode with an aperture of 10 m10 m. Counting upwards in a step-size (10 m) fashion from the crypt base, IR spectra were extracted from the image maps and each spectrum corresponding to a particular location was identified. Spectra were analyzed using principal component analysis plus linear discriminant analysis. Compared to putative crypt base columnar/Paneth cells, those assigned as label-retaining cells were chemically more similar to putative large bowel stem cells and, the small intestine transit-amplifying cells were closest to large bowel transit-amplifying cells; interestingly, the base of small intestine crypts was the most chemically-distinct. This study suggests that in the complex cell lineage of human GI crypts, chemical similarities as revealed by FTIR microspectroscopy between regions putatively assigned as stem cell, transit-amplifying and terminally-differentiated facilitates identification of cell function.
Down-regulation of the fetal stem cell factor SOX17 by H33342: a mechanism responsible for differential gene expression in breast cancer side population cells.	Human solid tumors contain rare cancer side population (SP) cells, which expel the fluorescent dye Hoechst 33342 (H33342) and display cancer stem cell characteristics. Transcriptional profiling of cancer SP cells isolated by H33342 fluorescence analysis is a newly emerging approach to discover cancer stem cell markers and aberrant differentiation pathways. Using Affymetrix expression microarrays and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, we investigated differential gene expression between SP and non-SP (NSP) cells isolated from human mammary carcinoma cell lines. A total of 136 genes were up-regulated in breast cancer SP relative to NSP cells, one of which was the fetal stem cell factor and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway target SOX17. Strikingly, we discovered that SOX17 was down-regulated by H33342 in a dose-dependent manner. In SP cells, which expel H33342, down-regulation of SOX17 was less pronounced than in NSP cells, which retain H33342. As a result of this, SOX17 displayed a 10-20-fold overexpression in cancer SP relative to NSP cells. Similar results were obtained for further stemness-related genes, namely EPC1 and SPRY1. These findings establish a previously unidentified gene-regulatory impact of H33342 as a novel mechanism responsible for differential gene expression in cancer SP cells. This has significant implications for the future interpretation of cancer SP cells.
TDP-43 is a developmentally regulated protein essential for early embryonic development.	TDP-43 is a DNA/RNA-binding protein implicated in multiple steps of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Alteration of this multifunctional protein is associated with a number of neurodegenerative diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin positive inclusions. Whereas a pathological link to neurodegenerative disorders has been established, the cellular and physiological functions of TDP-43 remain unknown. In this study, we show that TDP-43 is a nuclear protein with persistent high-level expression during embryonic development and with progressively decreased protein levels during postnatal development. In mice where the TDP-43 gene (Tardbp) was disrupted using a gene trap that carries a beta-galactosidase marker gene, heterozygous (Tardbp(+/-)) mice are fertile and healthy, but intercrosses of Tardbp(+/-) mice yielded no viable homozygotic null (Tardbp(-/-)) mice. Indeed, Tardbp(-/-) embryos die between 3.5 and 8.5 days of development. Tardbp(-/-) blastocysts grown in cell culture display abnormal expansion of their inner cell mass. The pattern of beta-galactosidase staining at E9.5 Tardbp(+/-) embryos is predominantly restricted to the neuroepithelium and remains prominent in neural progenitors at E10.5-12.5. TDP-43 is detected in spinal cord progenitors and in differentiated motor neurons as well as in the dorsal root ganglia at E12.5. Beta-galactosidase staining of tissues from adult Tardbp(+/-) mice shows widespread expression of TDP-43, including prominent levels in various regions of the central nervous system afflicted in neurodegenerative disorders. These results indicate that TDP-43 is developmentally regulated and indispensible for early embryonic development.
Quantitative DNA analysis of small renal cortical neoplasms.	DNA aneuploidy is common in large renal cortical neoplasms (RCNs), but the incidence in small RCNs is not known. This study was undertaken to investigate whether the traditional 3.0-cm size distinction between small (benign) and large (malignant) tumors might have an objective correlate in the form of abnormal DNA content. Quantitative DNA analysis was performed retrospectively, by image analysis, on 59 RCNs measuring 5.0 cm or less from 30 nephrectomy specimens with solitary tumors and 17 with multiple tumors. DNA indices and the proportion of cells with DNA content greater than that of the G0/G1 population were evaluated with respect to tumor size, stage, and histologic parameters. There was a relationship between the presence of detectable nondiploid stem lines (NDSLs) and tumor size, stage, nuclear grade, and proportion of non-G0/G1 cells, but not histologic pattern. The relationship of NDSLs to tumor size was more apparent in the solitary tumor group, while the relationship of a high proportion of non-G0/G1 cells to tumor size was stronger in the multiple tumor group. Our results show that the incidence of NDSLs increases with tumor size and nuclear grade, and suggest that as RCNs enlarge, the emergence of NDSLs heralds potential biologic aggressiveness. Further, solitary tumors and multiple synchronous tumors may be biologically different in terms of etiologic factors and growth potential.
Multiphoton flow cytometry to assess intrinsic and extrinsic fluorescence in cellular aggregates: applications to stem cells.	Detection and tracking of stem cell state are difficult due to insufficient means for rapidly screening cell state in a noninvasive manner. This challenge is compounded when stem cells are cultured in aggregates or three-dimensional (3D) constructs because living cells in this form are difficult to analyze without disrupting cellular contacts. Multiphoton laser scanning microscopy is uniquely suited to analyze 3D structures due to the broad tunability of excitation sources, deep sectioning capacity, and minimal phototoxicity but is throughput limited. A novel multiphoton fluorescence excitation flow cytometry (MPFC) instrument could be used to accurately probe cells in the interior of multicell aggregates or tissue constructs in an enhanced-throughput manner and measure corresponding fluorescent properties. By exciting endogenous fluorophores as intrinsic biomarkers or exciting extrinsic reporter molecules, the properties of cells in aggregates can be understood while the viable cellular aggregates are maintained. Here we introduce a first generation MPFC system and show appropriate speed and accuracy of image capture and measured fluorescence intensity, including intrinsic fluorescence intensity. Thus, this novel instrument enables rapid characterization of stem cells and corresponding aggregates in a noninvasive manner and could dramatically transform how stem cells are studied in the laboratory and utilized in the clinic.
Prominin-1 (CD133) is not restricted to stem cells located in the basal compartment of murine and human prostate.	Rodent and human prominin-1 are expressed in numerous adult epithelia and somatic stem cells. A report has shown that human PROMININ-1 carrying the AC133 epitope can be used to identify rare prostate basal stem cells (Richardson et al., J Cell Sci 2004; 117:35393545). Here we re-investigated its general expression in male reproductive tract including mouse and human prostate and in prostate cancer samples using various anti-prominin-1 antibodies.
Tracking of CFSE-labeled endothelial progenitor cells in laser-injured mouse retina.	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) transplantation is a promising therapeutic strategy for ischemic retinopathy. The current study aimed to establish a simple, reliable and fluorescent labeling method for tracking EPCs with 5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE) in laser-injured mouse retina.
Eomesodermin, HAND1, and CSH1 proteins are induced by cellular stress in a stress-activated protein kinase-dependent manner.	Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a transcription factor essential for trophoblast development. Stress stimuli activate stress-activated protein kinase (MAPK8/9) and modulate transcription factors in trophoblast stem cells (TSC). In this study, we test the hypothesis that stress-induced Eomes upregulation and downstream trophoblast development are MAPK8/9-dependent. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot assays suggest that Eomes is induced by hyperosmolar stress in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Two MAPK8/9 inhibitors that work by different mechanisms, LJNKl1 and SP600125, block induction of Eomes protein by stress. During normal TSC differentiation, the transcription factor heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 1 (HAND1) is dependent on Eomes, and chorionic somatomammotropin hormone 1 (CSH1) expression is dependent on HAND1. Similar to Eomes, HAND1 and CSH1 induction by stress are MAPK8/9-dependent, and CSH1 is induced in nearly all stressed TSC. CSH1 induction normally requires downregulation of the transcription factor inhibitor of differentiation 2 (ID2) as well as HAND1 upregulation. It was shown previously that hyperosmolar stress induces AMP-activated protein kinase (PRKAA1/2)-dependent ID2 loss in a MAPK8/9-independent manner. Inhibition of PRKAA1/2 with compound C and LJNKl1, more than MAPK8/9 inhibitors alone, inhibits the induction of CSH1 by stress. Taken together these data suggest that stress-induced MAPK8/9 and PRKAA1/2 regulate transcription factors Eomes/HAND1 and ID2, respectively. Together this network mediates induction of CSH1 by stress. Therefore, stress triggers a proportional increase in a normal early TSC differentiation event that could be adaptive in inducing CSH1. But the flexibility of TSC to undergo stress-induced differentiation could lead to pathophysiological consequences if stress endured and TSC differentiation became unbalanced.
Label-free detection of surface markers on stem cells by oblique-incidence reflectivity difference microscopy.	Conventional fluorescence microscopy is routinely used to detect cell surface markers through fluorophore-conjugated antibodies. However, fluorophore-conjugation of antibodies alters binding properties such as strength and specificity of the antibody in often uncharacterized ways. Here we present a method using an oblique-incidence reflectivity difference (OI-RD) microscope for label-free, real-time detection of cell surface markers, and apply it to analysis of stage-specific embryonic antigen 1 (SSEA1) on stem cells. Mouse stem cells express SSEA1 on their surfaces, and the level of SSEA1 decreases when the cells start to differentiate. In this study, we immobilized mouse stem cells and non-stem cells (control) on a glass surface as a microarray and reacted the cell microarray with unlabeled SSEA1 antibodies. By monitoring the reaction with an OI-RD microscope in real time, we confirmed that the SSEA1 antibodies bind only to the surface of the stem cells and not to the surface of non-stem cells. From the binding curves, we determined the equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of the antibody with the SSEA1 markers on the stem cell surface. Thus, the OI-RD microscope can be used to detect binding affinities between cell surface markers and unlabeled antibodies bound to the cells; this information could be useful for determination of stem cell stages.
Liver progenitor cell markers correlate with liver damage and predict short-term mortality in patients with alcoholic hepatitis.	Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is a severe condition developed in patients with underlying alcoholic liver disease. Ductular reaction has been associated with chronic alcohol consumption but there is no information regarding the extent of liver progenitor cell (LPC) proliferation in AH. The aim of this study was to investigate LPC markers in AH and its correlation with disease severity. Fifty-nine patients with clinical and histological diagnosis of AH were included in the study. LPC markers were assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and immunohistochemistry. Standard logistic regression analysis and classification and regression trees (CART) analysis were used for statistical analysis. A microarray analysis showed an up-regulation of LPC markers in patients with AH. Real-time PCR demonstrated that epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM), Prominin-1, and Keratin7 were significantly increased in patients with AH compared with normal livers (P  0.01), chronic hepatitis C (P  0.01), and HCV-induced cirrhosis (P  0.01). Immunohistochemistry scores generated for Keratin7 and EpCAM demonstrated a good correlation with gene expression. Keratin7 gene expression correlated with liver failure as assessed by model for endstage liver disease score (r = 0.41, P = 0.006) and Maddrey's discriminant function (r = 0.43, P = 0.004). Moreover, Keratin7 (OR1.14, P = 0.004) and Prominin-1 (OR1.14, P = 0.002), but not EpCAM (OR1.16, P = 0.06), were identified as independent predictors of 90-day mortality. CART analysis generated an algorithm based on the combination of Keratin7 and EpCAM gene expression that stratified three groups of patients with high, intermediate, and low short-term mortality (89%, 33%, and 6%, respectively; area under the receiver operating curve 0.73, 95% confidence interval 0.60-0.87). Keratin7 expression provided additional discrimination potential to the age, bilirubin, international normalization ratio, creatinine (ABIC) score.
In vitro labeling of endothelial progenitor cells isolated from peripheral             blood with superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles.	The transplantation of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) provides a novel method for the treatment of human tumors or vascular diseases. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has proven to be effective in tracking transplanted stem cells by labeling the cells with superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) nanoparticles. The SPIO has been used to label and track the EPCs; however, the effect of SPIO upon EPCs remains unclear on a cellular level. In the present study, EPCs were labeled with home-synthesized SPIO nanoparticles in vitro and the biological characteristics of the labeled EPCs were evaluated. The EPCs were isolated from the peripheral blood of New Zealand rabbits and cultured in fibronectin-coated culture flasks. The EPCs were labeled with home-synthesized SPIO nanoparticles at a final iron concentration of 20 g/ml. Labeled EPCs were confirmed with transmission electron microscopy and Prussian blue staining. The quantity of iron/cell was detected by atomic absorption spectrometry. The membranous antigens of EPCs were detected by cytofluorimetric analysis. Cell viability and proliferative capability between the labeled and unlabeled EPCs were compared. The rabbit EPCs were effectively labeled and the labeling efficiency was approximately 95%. The SPIO nanoparticles were localized in the endosomal vesicles of the EPCs, which were confirmed by transmission electron microscopy. No significant differences were found in cell viability and proliferative capability between labeled and unlabeled EPCs (P>0.05). In conclusion, rabbit peripheral blood EPCs were effectively labeled by home-synthesized SPIO nanoparticles, without influencing their main biological characteristics.
Centrifugal countercurrent chromatography to elucidate surface differences of adipose tissue-derived stem cells.	The current methods of isolation of adipose tissue-derived stem cells result in a heterogeneous population that might interfere with their differentiation potential and makes it difficult to compare the results between different groups. Partition in aqueous two-phase systems is one of the few techniques that separate cells on the basis of surface properties, gentle enough to isolate fragile cell types in isotonic conditions without altering their structure, and can be easily scaled. In this study, stem cells isolated from human adipose tissue seeded and expanded in vitro were fractionated by using centrifugal countercurrent distribution in an aqueous two-phase system. The separated subpopulations revealed the high heterogeneity of adipose tissue-derived stem cell samples. Comparative partition analyses showed that aging induces a loss of heterogeneity, which is not due to a loss of cell viability associated to age. The phosphatidylserine externalization, an apoptotic feature, is the main factor in cell partition that results in a decreased hydrophobicity of the cell surface. This procedure may be suitable for separating adipose tissue-derived stem cell populations enriched in some functional and/or structural surface characteristics. The possibility of a very effective separation of different subpopulations in opposite phases would be an interesting development of the method.
Phasor-FLIM analysis of NADH distribution and localization in the nucleus of live progenitor myoblast cells.	Analysis of the cellular distributions of coenzymes including NADH may aid in understanding a cells metabolic status. We altered serum concentration (0, 2, and 10%) to induce living myoblast cells to undergo the early stages of differentiation. Through microscopy and phasor-FLIM, we spatially mapped and identified variations in the distribution of free and bound NADH. Undifferentiated cells displayed abundant free NADH within the nucleus along with specific regions of more bound NADH. Complete serum starvation dramatically increased the fraction of bound NADH in the nucleus, indicating heightened requirement for transcriptional processes. In comparison, cells exposed to 2% serum exhibited intermediate free nuclear NADH fraction. Overall our results suggest an order of events in which a cell metabolic status alters significantly during the early stages of serum induced differentiation.
Structure of the human discs large 1 PDZ2- adenomatous polyposis coli cytoskeletal polarity complex: insight into peptide engagement and PDZ clustering.	The membrane associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family member, human Discs Large 1 (hDlg1) uses a PDZ domain array to interact with the polarity determinant, the Adenomatous Polyposis Coli (APC) microtubule plus end binding protein. The hDLG1-APC complex mediates a dynamic attachment between microtubule plus ends and polarized cortical determinants in epithelial cells, stem cells, and neuronal synapses. Using its multi-domain architecture, hDlg1 both scaffolds and regulates the polarity factors it engages. Molecular details underlying the hDlg1-APC interaction and insight into how the hDlg1 PDZ array may cluster and regulate its binding factors remain to be determined. Here, I present the crystal structure of the hDlg1 PDZ2-APC complex and the molecular determinants that mediate APC binding. The hDlg1 PDZ2-APC complex also provides insight into potential modes of ligand-dependent PDZ domain clustering that may parallel Dlg scaffold regulatory mechanisms. The hDlg1 PDZ2-APC complex presented here represents a core biological complex that bridges polarized cortical determinants with the dynamic microtubule cytoskeleton.
Isolation and in vitro characterization of basal and submucosal gland duct stem/progenitor cells from human proximal airways.	Basal cells and submucosal gland (SMG) duct cells have been isolated and shown to be stem/progenitor cell populations for the murine airway epithelium. However, methods for the isolation of basal and SMG duct cells from human airways have not been defined. We used an optimized two-step enzyme digestion protocol to strip the surface epithelium from tracheal specimens separate from SMG cells, and we then sorted the basal and duct stem/progenitors using fluorescence-activated cell sorting. We used nerve growth factor receptor, as well as a combination of CD166 and CD44, to sort basal cells and also used CD166 to isolate SMG duct cells. Sorted stem/progenitor cells were cultured to characterize their self-renewal and differentiation ability. Both basal and SMG duct cells grew into spheres. Immunostaining of the spheres showed mostly dense spheres with little to no central lumen. The spheres expressed cytokeratins 5 and 14, with some mucus- and serous-secreting cells. The sphere-forming efficiency and the rate of growth of the spheres varied widely between patient samples and correlated with the degree of hyperplasia of the epithelium. We found that only aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)(hi) basal and duct cells were capable of sphere formation. Global inhibition of ALDH, as well as specific inhibition of the ALDH2 isoform, inhibited self-renewal of both basal and duct cells, thereby producing fewer and smaller spheres. In conclusion, we have developed methods to isolate basal and SMG duct cells from the surface epithelium and SMGs of human tracheas and have developed an in vitro model to characterize their self-renewal and differentiation.
Immunohistochemical study of melanocyte-melanocyte stem cell lineage in vitiligo; a clue to interfollicular melanocyte stem cell reservoir.	There has been a long lasting controversy over whether melanocytes (MCs) in vitiligo are actually lost or still present but functionally inactive. We aimed to evaluate the MC cell lineage in follicular and interfollicular vitiliginous epidermis through immunohistochemical localization of Human Melanoma Black-45 (HMB-45) and Tyrosinase Related Protein 2 (TRP2) and to correlate it with clinicopathologic parameters. Using immunohistochemical techniques, skin biopsies from 50 vitiligo patients and 20 age- and gender-matched healthy subjects were examined. Differentiated active MCs were detected in 44% of interfollicular epidermis (IFE) and 46.7% of follicular epidermis (FE) in lesional skin. Melanocyte precursors/stem cells were detected in 54% of IFE and 63.3% of FE in lesional skin. Melanocyte precursors/stem cells of IFE were significantly associated with residual melanin pigment (p=0.007) and with absence of angiogenesis (p=0.05). HMB-45 percentage of expression in IFE was positively correlated with MC precursors/stem cells percentage in FE (r=+0.65, p<0.001) and IFE (r=+0.33, p=0.01). Melanocyte precursors/stem cells positivity (p<0.001) was progressively decreasing with advanced histopathologic grading. There was no significant association between interfollicular or follicular expression of HMB-45, TRP2 or MC precursors/stem cells and the clinical type of vitiligo or its duration. In conclusion, functioning MCs may exist in vitiligo. The presence of MC precursors/stem cells in IFE may provide an additional reservoir needed for repigmentation.
Structure and function of LGR5: an enigmatic G-protein coupled receptor marking stem cells.	G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are an important class of membrane protein that transmit extracellular signals invoked by sensing molecules such as hormones and neurotransmitters. GPCR dysfunction is implicated in many diseases and hence these proteins are of great interest to academia and the pharmaceutical industry. Leucine-rich repeat-containing GPCRs contain a characteristic extracellular domain that is an important modulator of intracellular signaling. One member of this class is the leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 5 (LGR5), a stem cell marker in intestinal crypts, and mammary glands. LGR5 modulates Wnt signaling in the presence of the ligand R-spondin (RSPO). The mechanism of activation of LGR5 by RSPO is not understood, nor is the intracellular signaling mechanism known. Recently reported structures of the extracellular domain of LGR5 bound to RSPO reveal a horseshoe-shaped architecture made up of consecutive leucine-rich repeats, with RSPO bound on the concave surface. This review discusses the discovery of LGR5 and the impact it is having on our understanding of stem cell and cancer biology of the colon. In addition, it covers functional relationships suggested by sequence homology and structural analyses, as well as some intriguing conundrums with respect to the involvement of LGR5 in Wnt signaling. 
Vibrational spectroscopy in stem cell characterisation: is there a niche?	Vibrational spectroscopy using both infrared and Raman spectroscopies has been used in recent years with the aim to aid clinicians in disease diagnosis. More recently, these techniques have been applied to study stem cell differentiation and to determine stem cell presence in tissues. These studies have demonstrated the potential of these techniques in better characterising stem cell differentiation phenotypes with potential applications in tissue engineering strategies. However, before the translation of vibrational spectroscopy into clinical practice becomes a reality, several issues still need to be addressed. We describe here an overview of the work carried out so far and the problems that might be encountered when using vibrational spectroscopy. 
Identification of a transposon-related RNA down-regulated by retinoic acid in embryonal carcinoma and embryonic stem cells.	The differential display polymerase chain reaction was employed to identify changes in mRNA expression during retinoic acid-induced differentiation in embryonal carcinoma PCC4.aza1R cells. In this study, we report on one cDNA, EC1, that was identified by this method. EC-1 encodes a 0.6-kb mRNA that is present in PCC4.aza1R cells and down-regulated by retinoic acid. Sequence analysis revealed that EC-1 exhibits a 47% identity with the early transposon RNA ETn and does not contain a long open reading frame. EC-1 mRNA expression was reduced by 50% after 24 h of treatment with 10 nM retinoic acid and was undetectable after 48 h. Down-regulation of EC-1 mRNA was observed at retinoic acid concentrations as low as 0.1 nM. EC-1 was found to be expressed in several other embryonal carcinoma cell lines as well as in embryonic stem cells but was undetectable in differentiated cell types obtained after RA treatment. Northern blot analysis using RNA from multiple mouse tissues demonstrated that the expression of EC-1 is restricted to the testis. Treatment of PCC4.aza1R cells with an RAR-selective agonist also repressed the expression of EC-1 mRNA while treatment with an RXR-selective agonist reduced EC-1 expression slightly. The RAR alpha-specific antagonist Ro 41-5253 had little effect on the down-regulation of EC-1 by retinoic acid. Our observations indicate that the repression of EC-1 is associated with the induction of differentiation in embryonal carcinoma and embryonic stem cells and involves an RAR-activated signaling pathway.
The intermediate filament-lamina-nuclear matrix system of ES-M13 cells]	Sequential extraction and DGD embedment-free section TEM techniques were used as new methods to study the intermediate filament-lamina-nuclear matrix (IF-L-NM) system of cells. Murine embryonic stem cells (ES-M13) were investigated by means of electron microscopy, immunofluorescence microscopy and Western-blot analysis. There existed a delicate nuclear matrix network in the nucleus domain of detergent-extracted ES cells. The filaments of the nuclear matrix were found in close association with the nuclear lamina. Some intermediate filaments were also observed in the cytoplasm. In immunofluorescence microscopy, a bright, slightly granular cytoplasmic fluorescence, showing no polar concentration, was revealed with keratin monoclonal antibody AF5. We could not detect any significant fibrillar staining in the ES cells by indirect immunofluorescence method. With antibodies to vimentin and desmin, the ES cells showed only a nonspecific, weak fluorescence, similar to that seen in the control. In Western-blot analysis of electrophoretically separated polypeptides, three polypeptides with molecular weight of 65 KD, 62 KD and 52 KD, reactive with keratin monoclonal antibody were detected in the ES cells.
Three new developments in P1 cloning. Increased cloning efficiency, improved clone recovery, and a new P1 mouse library.	In this report, we describe three new P1 cloning developments. Two of these developments represent improvements in cloning efficiency and clone recovery, and the third is the production and partial characterization of a new P1 mouse library. To increase cloning efficiency, we have produced a new lysis-defective (delta lydAB) P1 lysogen (NS3690) for the production of the stage II head-tail-P1 packaging extract that is easier to use than the original stage II lysogen (NS3210), and that produces stage II extracts that are five- to eightfold more efficient than the original extracts. We believe the increased efficiency is due to the more concentrated packaging components in the NS3690 extract. Regarding P1 clone recovery, we demonstrate here that the less than optimal recovery of P1 plasmid DNA from P1 clones is due to the continuous presence of the P1 Cre recombinase in the host strain containing those clones (NS3529). Consequently, a simple method of P1 plasmid clone transduction is described to transfer clone DNA from NS3529 (Cre+) to its Cre- parent (NS3516). Yields of P1 plasmid DNA from NS3516 are as much as tenfold higher than from NS3529. Finally, we document here the production of a new P1 mouse library that was generated using genomic DNA from embryonic stem cell line E14 (a 129/0la mouse). The library contains 182,000 independent clones whose average insert size is 80 kb and, based on > 100 polymerase chain reaction screens, has an average unique sequence-hit size of 4.6.
Correlation of gp140trk expression and NGF-induced neuroblast chemotaxis in the embryonic rat spinal cord.	During rat embryogenesis, fibers containing nerve growth factor (NGF) are present near the target destinations of migratory spinal neuroblasts, suggesting that diffusible gradients of NGF provide signals to newly generated neurons in the developing cord. In vitro, pM concentrations of NGF induce neuroblast chemotaxis (directed migration along a chemical gradient), indicating evoked motility is mediated by high-affinity receptors. Binding of 125I-labelled NGF to fetal cord cells provides additional evidence that rat spinal neuroblasts express the high-affinity receptors; however, their presence has not been directly demonstrated. In the present study, we used immunocytochemistry to show that the high-affinity NGF receptor protein, gp140trk (trk) is detectable in embryonic spinal tissue sections and in cord dissociates. Correlation of trk expression with NGF-induced chemotaxis revealed that both the receptor protein expression and functional responses to NGF develop along a ventro-dorsal gradient that parallels the in vivo pattern of neurogenesis and migration. Analysis of the temporal changes in trk immunoreactivity demonstrated that expression of gp140trk is bimodal, possibly reflecting multiple effects of NGF during development. Chemotaxis to NGF was blocked by nM concentrations of the kinase inhibitor, K252a, suggesting that NGF stimulates motility via high-affinity receptors coupled to kinase activity. Elevated 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) also attenuated NGF-induced chemotaxis, presenting preliminary evidence that protein kinase A (PKA) may regulate motility responses to NGF.
Glial growth factor restricts mammalian neural crest stem cells to a glial fate.	Growth factors and cytokines are thought to influence the development of uncommitted progenitor cell populations, but the issue of how these factors act on individual cells remains controversial. Such factors may act simply as selective mitogens or survival factors for cells that undergo lineage restrictions stochastically. Alternatively, they may instruct or bias multipotent cells to choose one lineage at the expense of others. Here we show that glial growth factor (GGF), previously defined as a Schwann cell mitogen, strongly suppresses neuronal differentiation of rat neural crest stem cells while promoting or allowing glial differentiation. Quantitative clonal analysis suggests that the action of GGF is likely to be instructive rather than selective. Taken together with the expression pattern of GGF, these data suggest a lateral signaling model for the diversification of cell types within developing peripheral ganglia.
Postmitotic osteoclast precursors are mononuclear cells which express macrophage-associated phenotypes.	We previously demonstrated that osteoclast-like multinucleated cells were formed within 6 days in cocultures of mouse osteoblastic cells and spleen cells in response to 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3[1 alpha,25(OH)2D3] which was added together with hydroxyurea on Days 4-6 (final 2 days of the 6-day coculture period). Using this coculture system, chronological changes of macrophage-associated phenotypes such as nonspecific esterase (NSE) and antigens to Mac-1, Mac-2, and F4/80 were examined in postmitotic osteoclast precursors during differentiation into osteoclasts induced by 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 (10 nM) added on Day 4. Osteoclast differentiation was assessed by examining expression of calcitonin receptors (CTRs) by autoradiography using 125I-labeled salmon CT. CTRs were first detected on small mononuclear cells within 12 hr after adding 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3. The number of CTR-positive mononuclear cells attained a maximum at 24 hr and decreased thereafter. CTR-positive multinucleated cells were first observed at 24 hr and reached a maximum population at 48 hr. All CTR-positive cells showed tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activity (a marker enzyme of osteoclasts). Most of the CTR-positive mononuclear cells which appeared at 12 hr were positive for NSE and antigens to Mac-1 and Mac-2, but negative for F4/80 antigen. The proportion of CTR-positive cells expressing NSE and Mac-1 to total CTR-positive mononuclear cells decreased time dependently. Like authentic osteoclasts, CTR-positive multinucleated cells were negative for NSE and antigens to Mac-1 and F4/80, but positive for Mac-2. These results indicate that postmitotic osteoclast precursors are mononuclear phagocytes with macrophage-associated phenotypes, some of which disappear rapidly during their differentiation into osteoclasts.
Carbonic anhydrase II gene transcript in cultured osteoclasts from neonatal rats: effect of calcitonin.	Carbonic anhydrase II (CA II), an enzyme catalyzing the interconversion of CO2 and water to HCO3- and protons, has a key role in osteoclastic bone resorption, but little is known of the regulation of CA II gene expression by calcitonin. Analysis of mRNA in osteoclasts has been difficult because of the problems of obtaining sufficient number of purified osteoclasts from bone. In this study, however, we have investigated the regulation of CA II mRNA in rat osteoclasts and their putative mononuclear precursors by using in situ hybridization. We have found that the CA II gene is expressed at high levels in osteoclasts and what are probably their maturing mononuclear precursors. Measurement of CA II mRNA in cultured osteoclasts and their putative mononuclear precursor cells by cytophotometry provided evidence that calcitonin, a direct inhibitor of mammalian osteoclast activity, reduces the levels of CA II mRNA in a dose dependent manner; maximum reduction was observed at a concentration of 100 pM of calcitonin. In addition, calcitonin reduced the number of CA II mRNA-positive mononuclear precursor cells. The results also suggest that expression of the CA II gene is a feature of cells committed to the osteoclast lineage.
Developmental analysis of the external granular layer in the meander tail mutant mouse: do cerebellar microneurons have independent progenitors?	The cerebellum of the meander tail mutant mouse (mea/mea) is characterized by an apparently normal cytoarchitecture posteriorly with an abrupt transition to an abnormal anterior region. Anteriorly, there is abnormal foliation, a drastic reduction in the granule cells (GC) population, disorganization of the Purkinje cells (PC), and a virtual absence of Bergmann glial processes. In this paper we analyze the prenatal and postnatal development of the cerebellum in the mea/mea and attempt to determine the phenotypic onset of the mutation in the anterior region. Hematoxylin and eosin stained sections reveal a morphological difference in the cerebellum of the mea/mea as early as embryonic day 16 characterized by a reduction in the external granule cell layer (EGL). The reduction in the EGL becomes increasingly apparent as development proceeds. This deficit in the EGL most probably results in the absence of GC, but it is unclear at this point whether reduced migration, proliferation, and/or increased cell death is the major factor. Interestingly, immunohistochemical staining with a monoclonal antibody against parvalbumin reveals that the basket and stellate cells, which are also thought to arise from the EGL, are present in the anterior region of the mea/mea cerebellum. These results suggest that the lack of GC in the meander tail is due to an early expressed abnormality of the EGL. However, the presence of the basket and/or stellate cells raises some interesting questions concerning the lineage of the cerebellar microneurons.
Mixed parenchymal-stromal populations of rat adrenocortical cells support the proliferation and differentiation of steroidogenic cells.	The mechanisms which regulate adrenocortical steroidogenesis in differentiated parenchymal cells have been studied in great detail. However, the stem cells that are responsible for regeneration of the adult cortex have never been identified or isolated, and their characteristics are unknown. We have developed a tissue culture system that supports the simultaneous proliferation and differentiation of steroidogenic adrenocortical cells. Utilizing density gradient separation, a cell population composed of a mixture of stromal, endothelial and parenchymal cells (MIX) was isolated from the adult rat adrenal cortex. In primary culture, MIX populations formed high saturation density multilayers from which rounded cells emerged. These cells proliferated, contained lipid, and expressed the steroidogenic enzymes delta 5,3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and cholesterol side-chain cleavage cytochrome P-450scc. After selective passaging, rounded MIX-derived cells retained their steroidogenic potential, even in the absence of trophic hormone treatment. In contrast, parenchymal cells obtained from the zonae fasciculata (FASC) and glomerulosa (GLOM) respectively, formed homogeneous monolayers in primary culture, gradually de-differentiated, and no longer responded to trophic hormone treatment after passaging. Thus, primary MIX cultures provided a microenvironment that resulted in the production of adrenocortical cells with stem cell-like qualities. These cultures provide for the first time, a system for the identification of specific inducers that are responsible for both adrenocortical cytogenesis and its associated proliferation and steroidogenic differentiation.
Differential requirements for alpha4 integrins during fetal and adult hematopoiesis.	Mice chimeric for the expression of alpha4 integrins were used to dissect the roles of these receptors in development and traffic of lymphoid and myeloid cells. During fetal life, T cell development is alpha4 independent, but after birth further production of T cells becomes alpha4 dependent. Precursors for both T and B cells require alpha4 integrins for normal development within the bone marrow. In contrast, monocytes and natural killer cells can develop normally without alpha4 integrins. Thus, there are lymphocyte-specific, developmentally regulated requirements for alpha4 integrins in hematopoiesis in the bone marrow. We also show that alpha4 integrins are essential for T cell homing to Peyer's patches, but not to other secondary lymphoid organs, including spleen, lymph nodes, and intestinal epithelium.
Embryonic stem cells differentiated in vitro as a novel source of cells for transplantation.	The controlled differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells into near homogeneous populations of both neurons and skeletal muscle cells that can survive and function in vivo after transplantation is reported. We show that treatment of pluripotent ES cells with retinoic acid (RA) and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) induce differentiation of these cells into highly enriched populations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) expressing neurons and skeletal myoblasts, respectively. For neuronal differentiation, RA alone is sufficient to induce ES cells to differentiate into neuronal cells that show properties of postmitotic neurons both in vitro and in vivo. In vivo function of RA-induced neuronal cells was demonstrated by transplantation into the quinolinic acid lesioned striatum of rats (a rat model for Huntington's disease), where cells integrated and survived for up to 6 wk. The response of embryonic stem cells to DMSO to form muscle was less dramatic than that observed for RA. DMSO-induced ES cells formed mixed populations of muscle cells composed of cardiac, smooth, and skeletal muscle instead of homogeneous populations of a single muscle cell type. To determine whether the response of ES cells to DMSO induction could be further controlled, ES cells were stably transfected with a gene coding for the muscle-specific regulatory factor, MyoD. When induced with DMSO, ES cells constitutively expressing high levels of MyoD differentiated exclusively into skeletal myoblasts (no cardiac or smooth muscle cells) that fused to form myotubes capable of spontaneous contraction. Thus, the specific muscle cell type formed was controlled by the expression of MyoD. These results provided evidence that the specific cell type formed (whether it be muscle, neuronal, or other cell types) can be controlled in vitro. Further, these results demonstrated that ES cells can provide a source of multiple differentiated cell types that can be used for transplantation.
Multiple restricted origin of oligodendrocytes.	The plp gene encodes the proteolipid protein and its alternatively spliced product DM-20, major proteins of CNS myelin. In the mouse, plp/dm-20 transcripts are expressed beginning at embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) by restricted foci of germinative neuroepithelial cells. To determine the identity of the neural precursors expressing plp/dm- 20, a zeomycin resistance gene fused to the lacZ reporter was expressed in transgenic mice under the control of the plp regulatory sequences. In the three different lines generated, the pattern of beta-galactosidase expression was similar and superimposable on the expression pattern of endogenous plp/dm-20. Both in vivo and in vitro, the transgene was expressed by O4(+) pre-oligodendrocytes, and later by RIP+ differentiated oligodendrocytes, but not by neuronal cells, astrocytes, or radial glial cells. After zeomycin selection, a dramatic enrichment in O4(+) pre-oligodendrocytes was observed in cultures derived from E12.5 transgenic embryos. This enrichment indicates the oligodendroglial specification of neural precursors that continuously express plp/dm-20. Early plp/dm-20-expressing precursors, however, appear to be a separate population from previously described PDGFRalpha oligodendrocyte precursors, as shown by the striking differences in their (1) patterns of distribution and (2) responsiveness to PDGF. These data suggest that oligodendrocytes have a plural origin and that early plp/dm-20 defines one of the neural lineages generating oligodendrocytes.
The C8/144B monoclonal antibody recognizes cytokeratin 15 and defines the location of human hair follicle stem cells.	Stem cells are vital for the homeostasis of self-renewing tissues such as the hair follicle. Epithelial stem cells have been implicated in tumorigenesis and wound healing, and their manipulation may have wide ranging applications including gene therapy and tissue transplantation. Rodent hair follicle stem cells have been localized to an area of the follicle called the bulge, however, the identification and characterization of human hair follicle stem cells has been hampered by a lack of cellular markers for this area. We have determined that the C8/144B monoclonal antibody, originally generated against a short intracytoplasmic peptide of CD8, preferentially immunostains hair follicle bulge keratinocytes without staining the remaining hair follicle. Using expression cloning, we identified cytokeratin 15 as the keratinocyte protein recognized by the C8/144B monoclonal antibody. By delineating the bulge using this antibody, we demonstrated that bulge cells possess a stem cell phenotype characterized by their slowly-cycling nature, preferential proliferation at the onset of new hair follicle growth, high level of beta1 integrin expression, and expression of cytokeratin 19.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) has a costimulatory effect on proliferation of committed progenitors derived from human umbilical cord CD34+ cells.	The effects of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) on highly enriched human umbilical cord CD34+ cells were investigated in vitro. CD34+ cells were cultured in serum-free medium containing stem cell factor (SCF), GM-CSF, and interleukin-3 (IL-3). Culture of CD34+ cells for one week in the presence of these cytokines resulted in a dose-dependent increase in total cell number. Addition of G-CSF together with SCF+IL-3+GM-CSF increased the proliferation of myelopoietic cells as determined by the number of cells expressing the myelomonocytic marker CD64 and the granulocytic marker CD15 without significantly altering the number of CD34+ cells in the cultures. In the presence of G-CSF, IGF-1 induced a dose-dependent increase in the total cell number and a moderate but significant increase in the percentages of CD15+, CD64+ cells with sustained CD34+ cell proliferation. We conclude that IGF-1 can enhance the in vitro proliferation of committed progenitor cells derived from umbilical cord CD34+ cells.
QKI expression is regulated during neuron-glial cell fate decisions.	QKI proteins are expressed by differentiated glia and have been implicated as regulators of myelination, but are also thought to function during early neural development. This study shows that QKI proteins are expressed in neural progenitors of the ventricular zone (vz) during murine CNS development, but that their expression is down-regulated during neuronal differentiation. By contrast, neural progenitors located in specific subdomains of the vz maintain expression of QKI proteins as they differentiate and migrate away into the emerging nervous system. These QKI+ cells have characteristics consistent with the acquisition of a glial rather than neuronal fate; they express nestin, incorporate BrdU, fail to express neuronal markers, and similar QKI+ cells are found in the postnatal subventricular zone, a known area of gliogenesis. In vitro, neural progenitor cells also down-regulate QKI expression as they differentiate into neurons, but not if they differentiate into glia. Furthermore, neural progenitors in strictly delineated subdomains of the vz dramatically up-regulate expression of the QKI-5 isoform prior to the emergence of QKI+ cells from these regions. Taken together, these data indicate that (1) glia are generated from subsets of neural progenitors found in specific, identifiable subdomains of the vz (2) QKI expression is regulated as neural progenitors undergo the neuron-glial cell fate decision and (3) QKI expression is a characteristic of glial progenitors.
Evaluation of the expression of human CAP18 gene during neutrophil maturation in the bone marrow.	To understand the gene expression of CAP18 (18-kDa cationic antibacterial protein), a member of cathelicidins, we evaluated mRNA and protein expression of CAP18 using human bone marrow cells and mature neutrophils. Northern blot analysis revealed that CAP18 mRNA was expressed more abundantly in bone marrow cells than mature neutrophils, whereas Western blot analysis indicated that CAP18 protein was more abundant in mature neutrophils than bone marrow cells. Consistent with this, in situ hybridization using bone marrow cells demonstrated that the expression of CAP18 mRNA was neutrophil lineage-specific and was observed primarily in myelocytes (>95%) with limited expression in more immature cells (promyelocytes) and mature cells (metamyelocytes, band cells, and segmented neutrophils). Furthermore, immunohistochemical study indicated that, coincident with the increase of CAP18 mRNA levels, CAP18-positive cells increased markedly at myelocyte stage, and the increased levels remained almost constant (>95%) in metamyelocytes, band cells, and segmented neutrophils, although the mRNA levels were remarkably reduced in these cells. Together these observations indicate that CAP18 gene transcription likely occurs lineage- and stage-specifically at the myelocyte stage of neutrophil maturation in the bone marrow and results in the synthesis and cytoplasmic accumulation of CAP18, which is present in the subsequent stages of neutrophil maturation.
Rat osteoclast precursors in vivo express a vitronectin receptor and a chloride-bicarbonate exchanger.	In vivo osteoclast precursors, which are mononuclear, were previously found to express TRAP (tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase) and CTR (calcitonin receptor), like multinucleated osteoclasts. In vitro, they were found to express, in addition, VNR (vitronectin receptor) and CBE (chloride-bicarbonate exchanger). In order to ascertain that osteoclast precursors in vivo express VNR and CBE like their in vitro counterparts, we used immunohistochemistry to localize these molecules in developing long bones of neonatal rats. Frozen sections of metatarsals and phalanges of 1-2 day-old rats were stained for TRAP and mineralization using histochemistry or were reacted with polyclonal antibodies specific for either the beta3 chain of the VNR or synthetic sequences of the CBE. Both mature, multinucleated osteoclasts within the forming marrow cavity of metatarsals (as shown previously) and mononuclear osteoclast precursors located outside the bony collar of the phalangeal calcified rudiment (as shown here for the first time) expressed both TRAP, VNR and CBE. These findings suggest that mononuclear osteoclast precursors express many of the phenotypical markers of multinucleated osteoclasts prior to their fusion and multinucleation which may allow them to resorb bone, as suggested by in vitro observations of pit formation by preosteoclasts cultured on resorbable substances.
Immunolocalization of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 in the subepicardial mesenchyme of hamster embryos: identification of the coronary vessel precursors.	The earliest evidence of the development of the cardiac vessels in mammals is the emergence of subepicardial blood islands, which are thought to originate from mesenchymal progenitors. In order to identify these progenitor cells, we have studied the immunohistochemical localization in the heart of Syrian hamster embryos of the type 2 vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, the earliest molecule known to be expressed in the vasculogenic cell lineage. Only a few immunoreactive subepicardial mesenchymal cells were present by 10 days post coitum. By 11 days post coitum, the subepicardial mesenchymal cells became abundant at the dorsal part of the ventricle, the atrioventricular and the conoventricular grooves. About 20% of cells were labelled with the antibody. Immunoreactive cells were isolated or formed pairs, short cords, rounded clusters or ring-like structures at the subepicardium or, occasionally, within the ventricular myocardium. Other labelled cells were simultaneously cytokeratin immunoreactive. By 12 days post coitum, most immunoreactive mesenchymal cells have been replaced by a capillary network. We propose that an active process of vascular differentiation occurs between 10 and 12 days post coitum in the subepicardium of this species, and it might be a suitable model for the study of vasculogenetic mechanisms.
