Asymmetric total syntheses of tuberostemonine, didehydrotuberostemonine, and 13-epituberostemonine.	Detailed experimental approaches toward the pentacyclic Stemona alkaloids tuberostemonine and didehydrotuberostemonine and the close analogue 13-epituberostemonine are described. The syntheses originate with a hydroindolinone derivative that can be obtained on a large scale in a single step from carbobenzoxy-protected l-tyrosine. Highlights of the conversion of this hydroindolinone to the target structures are the three-fold use of ruthenium catalysts, first in azepine ring-closing metathesis and then in alkene isomerization and cross-metathesis propenyl-vinyl exchange, as well as the stereoselective attachment of a gamma-butyrolactone ring to a tetracycle core structure by use of a lithiated asymmetric bicyclo[3.2.1]octane (ABO) ortho ester. Structural analysis by density functional theory (DFT) methods revealed that the ease of oxidation of the natural product is likely due to the conformational preferences of the pyrrolidine and the fused cyclohexane rings.
Stemoninines from the roots of Stemona tuberosa.	Five new stemoninine-type alkaloids, bisdehydrostemoninine (1), isobisdehydrostemoninine (2), bisdehydroneostemoninine (3), and bisdehydrostemoninines A (4) and B (5), were isolated from the crude-alkaloid extract of the roots of Stemona tuberosa. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of one- and two-dimensional NMR and other spectroscopic studies. The relative configuration of 4 was determined by X-ray diffraction. Alkaloid 1 displayed significant antitussive activity in the citric acid-induced guinea pig cough model.
Total synthesis of grandisine D.	Total synthesis of grandisine D (5) was achieved by a Brønsted acid mediated Morita-Baylis-Hillman (MBH) ring-closure reaction and stereoselective aldol condensation with (S)-5-methylcyclohexenone (9) as key steps. The MBH approach was also applicable for the construction of the aza-fused bicyclic systems of pyrrolizidine and stemona alkaloids.
Alkaloids from the roots of Stemona aphylla.	Three known compounds, stemofoline (1), (2'S)-hydroxystemofoline (2), and (11Z)-1',2'-didehydrostemofoline (3), along with two new alkaloids, stemaphylline (4) and stemaphylline-N-oxide (5), have been isolated from a root extract of Stemona aphylla. The structures of these alkaloids were determined on the basis of their spectroscopic data. The analysis of the crude dichloromethane extract by GC-MS in the EIMS mode showed the presence of alkaloids 1-4, the alkaloid 11, and stilbostemin R (12). The crude dichloromethane extract and 4 were tested for their comparative biological activities. The results of their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activities showed that the crude extract had higher activity than that of 4. The insecticidal properties of the crude extract and 4, using a topical application, showed that 4 had an activity similar to the positive control, methomyl, whereas the crude extract had much lower activity. Their antimicrobial activity against Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923, Pseudomonas auruginosa ATCC 27853, and Candida albicans ATCC 90028 was weak (MIC 62.5-125 microg/mL, MBC 125-250 microg/mL, MFC 125 microg/mL) but much higher than that of the crude extract.
Synthesis and receptor profiling of Stemona alkaloid analogues reveal a potent class of sigma ligands.	Reported biological activities of Stemona natural products, such as antitussive activity, inspired the development of synthetic methods to access several alkaloids within this family and in so doing develop a general route to the core skeleta shared by the class of natural products. The chemistry was subsequently adapted to afford a series of analogue sets bearing simplified, diverse Stemona-inspired skeleta. Over 100 of these analogues were subjected to general G protein-coupled receptor profiling along with the known antitussive compound, neostenine; this led to the identification of hit compounds targeting several receptor types. The particularly rich hit subset for sigma receptors was expanded with two focused library sets, which resulted in the discovery of a fully synthetic, potent chemotype of sigma ligands. This collaborative effort combined the development of synthetic methods with extensive, flexible screening resources and exemplifies the role of natural products in bioactivity mining.
Ultra-performance liquid-chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry performing pharmacokinetic and biodistribution studies of croomine, neotuberostemonine and tuberostemonine alkaloids absorbed in the rat plasma after oral administration of Stemonae Radix.	Stemonae Radix (Stemona tuberosa Lour, Bai Bu) is an important traditional Chinese medicinal (TCM) plant known for its antitussive activity. Croomine, neotuberostemonine and tuberostemonine alkaloids of Stemonae Radix are major components responsible for antitussive action. In this work, plasma pharmacokinetic and biodistribution characteristics of the three alkaloids after oral administration of Stemonae Radix are investigated using a rapid and sensitive UPLC-Q-TOF-HDMS method. Mass spectrometry (MS) was performed on a Waters Micromass high-definition technology with an electrospray ionization source in positive ion mode, with excellent MS mass accuracy and enhanced MS data acquisition. Separation of main alkaloids was achieved on a Waters BEH C(18) column by linear gradient elution. Data were analyzed and estimated by compartmental methods and pharmacokinetic parameters calculated using WinNonlin Professional version 5.1. It was found that croomine, neotuberostemonine and tuberostemonine had faster absorbed into the bloodstream, maintain the high plasma concentration, and pose a large AUC value. The biodistribution of neotuberostemonine and tuberostemonine showed that the higher levels were in liver, and lung. Croomine was discovered in brain and showed that it could cross the blood-brain barrier, indicating that croomine plays an antitussive effect as acting on the central nervous system. Neotuberostemonine and tuberostemonine were not discovered in brain, demonstrating that they play an antitussive effect as peripheral antitussive. This work suggests that the pharmacokinetics and biodistribution based-UPLC-Q-TOF-HDMS can provide a reliable tools for screening bioactive components contributing to pharmacological effects of medicinal herbs.
Pharmacokinetics study of multiple components absorbed in rat plasma after oral administration of Stemonae radix using ultra-performance liquid-chromatography/mass spectrometry with automated MetaboLynx software analysis.	Stemonae radix (Stemona tuberosa Lour, Bai Bu) is a traditional Chinese medicinal (TCM) plant known for its antitussive and anti-ectoparasitic activity; however, the in vivo pharmacokinetic of its multiple bioactive components remains unknown. In this article, UPLC-Q-TOF-high-definition mass spectrometry (HDMS) coupled with automated data analysis MetaboLynx™ software together were first developed to screen the potentially bioactive components in the rat plasma after oral administration of Stemonae radix. Time course of the absorbed components of Stemonae radix was built to evaluate pharmacokinetic behaviors. This rapid automated analysis method was successfully applied for identification, screening, and monitoring of the 28 constituents absorbed and metabolized studies of Stemonae radix after oral administration to rats. The results showed that the ongoing changes of 28 constituents including eight parent compounds and 20 metabolites in vivo were observed to find biomarkers. From the angle of behavior in vivo, it suggested that croomine and tuberostemonine would be potential efficacy markers. This work also demonstrated that the pharmacokinetics-based UPLC-Q-TOF-HDMS can provide a reliable means of identifying and screening potentially bioactive components contributing to pharmacological effects of medicinal herbs, and to better clarify its action mechanism, further prospecting natural products in the search for new leads in drug discovery.
Alkaloids from the roots of Stichoneuron caudatum and their acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activities.	Four new stichoneurine-type alkaloids, stichoneurines F and G (1-2) and sessilistemonamines E and F (3-4), have been isolated from the root extracts of Stichoneuron caudatum. The structures and relative configurations of these alkaloids have been determined by spectroscopic methods and molecular modeling experiments. Compounds 1-4 were tested for their acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activities against human AChE. Compound 3 showed significant inhibitory activity with an IC50 value of 9.1±0.15 μM.
