Application of molecular methods for analysing the distribution and diversity of acetic acid bacteria in Chilean vineyards.	The presence of acetic acid bacteria populations on grape surfaces from several Chilean valleys is reported. The bacteria were analysed at both the species and the strain level by molecular methods such as RFLP-PCR 16S rRNA gene, RFLP-PCR ITS 16S-23S rRNA gene regions and Arbitrary Primed (AP) PCR. Our results show that there are limited numbers of species of acetic acid bacteria in the grapes and that there is a need for an enrichment medium before plating to recover the individual colonies. In the Northernmost region analysed, the major species recovered was a non-acetic acid bacteria, Stenotrophomonas maltophila. Following the North-South axis of Chilean valleys, the observed distribution of acetic acid bacteria was zonified: Acetobacter cerevisiae was only present in the North and Gluconobacter oxydans in the South. Both species were recovered together in only one location. The influence of the grape cultivar was negligible. Variability in strains was found to be high (more than 40%) for both Acetobacteraceae species.
Rapid genotyping of Achromobacter xylosoxidans, Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolates using melting curve analysis of RAPD-generated DNA fragments (McRAPD).	Typing of bacteria is important for monitoring newly emerging pathogens and for examining local outbreaks. We evaluated the randomly amplified polymorphic DNA technique in combination with melting curve analysis (McRAPD) of the amplified DNA fragments to genotype isolates from five Gram-negative species, i.e. Achromobacter xylosoxidans, Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. By determining the melting temperature peaks of the amplified DNA fragments, we were able to distinguish the different genotypes of isolates, as they had been assessed by other genotyping techniques, i.e. agarose gel electrophoresis of RAPD fragments, multilocus sequence typing and/or AFLP™. According to our results, McRAPD may offer the possibility of genotyping a limited number of bacterial isolates, e.g. in case of suspicion of hospital outbreak, via a less costly, more rapid, less laborious and more user-friendly technique than RAPD followed by electrophoresis.
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia: emerging disease patterns and challenges for treatment.	Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is a ubiquitous organism associated with opportunistic infections. In the immunocompromised host, increasing prevalence and severity of illness is observed, particularly opportunistic bloodstream infections and pneumonia syndromes. In this article, the classification and microbiology are outlined, together with clinical presentation, outcomes and management of infections due to S. maltophilia. Although virulence mechanisms and the genetic basis of antibiotic resistance have been identified, a role for standardized and uniform reporting of antibiotic sensitivity is not defined. Infections due to S. maltophilia have traditionally been treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, ticarcillin-clavulanic acid, or fluoroquinolone agents. The use of combination therapies, newer fluoroquinolone agents and tetracycline derivatives is discussed. Finally, measures to prevent transmission of S. maltophilia within healthcare facilities are reported, especially in at-risk patient populations.
Phenotypic and genotypic characterization of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolates from patients with cystic fibrosis: genome diversity, biofilm formation, and virulence.	Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is emerging as one of the most frequently found bacteria in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. In the present study, phenotypic and genotypic traits of a set of 98 isolates of S. maltophilia obtained from clinical (CF and non-CF patients) and environmental sources were comparatively evaluated.
Virulence genes in clinical and environmental Stenotrophomas maltophilia isolates: a genome sequencing and gene expression approach.	The rate of nosocomial infections with the opportunistic pathogen Stenotrophomonas maltophilia has remarkably increased in the last decade. To determine S. maltophilia virulence genes, the complete genome sequences of two S. maltophilia isolates were compared. The clinical strain SKK35 was proved virulent in an amoeba host-pathogen model, and wastewater strain RA8 was determined as non-virulent in the amoeba model. The genome sequences of three additional S. maltophilia strains, K279a (clinical, non-virulent against amoeba), R511-3 and SKA14 (both environmental, non-virulent against amoeba) were taken into account as reference strains. We were able to show that all clinical and environmental S. maltophilia strains presented comparable distribution of so far identified potential virulence genes, regardless to their virulence potential against amoebae. Aside from that, strain SKK35 was found harboring a putative, strain specific pathogenicity island, encoding two proteins from the RTX (repeats-in-toxin) family. The actual expression of the RTX genes was verified in growth experiments in different culture media containing blood or blood components and in co-cultures with amoeba. 
