Biotransformation of steroids by the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.	The fungal biotransformation of steroids is of applied interest due to the economic importance of such stereo- and regiospecific reactions and also in the context of ergosterol pathway engineering to produce vitamin D and steroidal products. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe no steroid hydroxylation as is found in filamentous fungi was observed, but a cytosolic NAD(H)/NADP(H)-dependent hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity was identified. Progesterone was reduced at the delta 4 double bond (in vivo only) as well as at the C-3 and C-20 keto groups. Testosterone and 4-androstene-3,17-dione were interconverted and 5 alpha-pregnane-3,20-dione and 5 beta-pregnane-3,20-dione were reduced to 3-hydroxy products. The reactions were sometimes reversible and showed regio- and stereo specificity. In S. pombe more than one steroid dehydrogenase homologue is likely to occur, as has been observed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Our findings indicate that genes encoding soluble proteins should be examined as candidates for actual steroid dehydrogenase activity.
Steroid hormones: Interactions with membrane-bound receptors.	Steroid hormones are generally thought to pass easily across a plasma membrane into a cell, interacting once inside with soluble nuclear receptors, but recent experiments have demonstrated the importance of membrane-bound receptors in mediating the activity and the metabolism of steroid hormones.
Recent advances in applied and mechanistic aspects of the enzymatic hydroxylation of steroids by whole-cell biocatalysts.	Recent advances in microbial steroid hydroxylation are covered, including new biocatalysts and substrate groups and new methodologies such as the use of low-water systems, immobilised biocatalysts, genetically constructed biocatalysts and enzyme mimics. Mechanistic factors that control the regiochemistry and stereochemistry of steroid hydroxylation are also discussed.
Analysis of the steroid binding domain of rat steroid 5alpha-reductase (isozyme-1): the steroid D-ring binding domain of 5alpha-reductase.	We have previously shown that the photoactive 4-azasteroid, [1,2 3H]N-4(benzylbenzoyl)-3-oxo-4-aza-4-methyl-5alpha-androst an-17beta-carboxamide is an effective probe of rat steroid 5alpha-reductase (isozyme-1) (5alphaR-1). In the current investigation, PEG-fractionated (6.5%) detergent-solubilized preparations containing 5alphaR-1 activity were ultraviolet (UV)-photolyzed with [3H]-4MABP and subsequently purified by 8.75% preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The fractions corresponding to the radioactive peak following the dye front were analyzed by 10% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and showed the presence of a single, labeled, 26 KDa protein band, the apparent molecular weight of 5alphaR-1. TCA precipitation of the labeled fractions, followed by long-term digestion of the TCA pellet with chymotrypsin and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis, indicated that the majority of the radioactivity eluted with a peak retention time of 55-56 min. Rechromatography of this fraction using a modified gradient (elution 54-55 min), followed by sequence analysis, yielded a single N-terminal tetrapeptide with the sequence, -L-E-G-F-, corresponding to residues 15-18 of the 5alphaR-1 sequence. Site-directed mutagenesis studies indicated that mutant F18L showed an approximately 12-fold increase in the Km for testosterone, whereas the Km for reduced nicotinomide adenine dinucleotide phosphate remained virtually unaltered.
Specific binding and effects of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S) on skeletal muscle cells: possible implication for DHEA-S replacement therapy in patients with myotonic dystrophy.	Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its sulfate (DHEA-S) are the most abundant steroidal products and major circulating steroids in humans. The serum concentrations of DHEA-S are lower in patients with myotonic dystrophy (DM) than normal controls, and possible improvement of myotonia and muscle weakness was recently reported following DHEA-S replacement therapy. However, the molecular mechanism of action of DHEA-S remains unknown. To understand the reported anti-DM action of DHEA-S, we investigated DHEA-S binding in skeletal muscle cells in vitro. We identified two populations of DHEA-S binding sites (Kd = 5-9 microM and 35-40 microM) in C2C12 myocytes. Similar binding sites were also identified in human skeletal muscles. The Kd value of the high-affinity site was within the range of serum concentrations of DHEA-S in adult humans. Our results suggest that DHEA-S might act directly on skeletal muscles under normal physiological conditions in humans.
Endocrine end-points in rheumatoid arthritis.	Our previous studies are reviewed and at the same time preliminary experimental observation to the topic of endocrine end-points in autoimmune disease is introduced. To this end, we have used rheumatoid arthritis (RA), including synovial fluids and primary cultures of synovial macrophages, as a model system in order to investigate (a) expression and subcellular localization of high-affinity sites of steroid binding in immune effector cells; (b) steroid metabolic profiles in both male and female RA patients, as compared to healthy subjects; and (c) activities of key steroid enzymes that govern intratissue accumulation of sex hormones. In RA tissues and cells, the concurrent evidence for (1) androgen and/or estrogen receptors, (2) high concentrations of biologically active steroids, (3) key enzymes of steroid metabolism, and (4) significant changes of estrogen to androgen ratio, all strongly suggests that individual immune cells, including synovial macrophages, may behave as steroid-sensitive cells, namely, they may represent a target for sex steroids, supporting the hypothesis of a potential endocrine regulation of the immune response also in RA disease. In this respect, definition of several endocrine end-points may have important implications for the treatment of rheumatic disease and other immunological disorders.
Comparative inhibition by hard and soft metal ions of steroid-binding capacity of renal mineralocorticoid receptor cross-linked to the 90-kDa heat-shock protein heterocomplex.	We analysed the inhibitory effects in vitro and in vivo of several metal ions on aldosterone binding to the rat kidney mineralocorticoid receptor with the purpose of assessing possible toxic effects of those ions on sodium retention, as well as to obtain information on receptor structural requirements for ligand binding. For the assays in vitro, the inhibitory effects of 20 metal ions were analysed on steroid-binding capacity for renal receptor cross-linked to 90-kDa heat-shock protein (hsp90) by pretreatment with dimethyl pimelimidate. Cross-linking prevented the artifactual dissociation of hsp90 (and, consequently, the loss of steroid binding) from the mineralocorticoid receptor due to the presence of high concentrations of salt in the incubation medium. Cross-linked heterocomplex showed no difference in ligand specificity and affinity with respect to native receptor, but increased stability upon thermal- or ionic-strength-induced destabilization was observed. Treatments in vitro with metal ions in the range 10(-8)-10(-1) M resulted in a differential inhibitory effect for each particular ion on aldosterone binding. Using the negative logarithm of metal concentration for 50% inhibition, the ions could be correlated with their Klopman hardness constants. The analysis of this relationship led us to postulate three types of reaction: with thiol, imidazole and carboxyl groups. The essential role played by these residues in steroid binding was confirmed by chemical modification of cysteines with dithionitrobenzoic acid, histidines with diethyl pyrocarbonate and acidic amino acids with Woodward's reagent (N-ethyl-5-phenylisoxazolium-3'-sulphonate). Importantly, the toxic effects of some metal ions were also observed by treatments in vivo of adrenalectomized rats on both steroid-binding capacity and aldosterone-dependent sodium-retaining properties. We suggest that those amino acid residues are involved in the activation process of the mineralocorticoid receptor upon steroid binding. Thus toxic effects observed with these metal ions may be a consequence of modifications of those essential groups. Our results support the notion that toxicity of metals on renal mineralocorticoid function may be predicted according to their chemical hardness.
Molecular determinants of steroid recognition and catalysis in aldo-keto reductases. Lessons from 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.	Hydroxysteroid Dehydrogenases (HSDs) regulate the occupancy of steroid hormone receptors by converting active steroid hormones into their cognate inactive metabolites. HSDs belong to either the Short-chain Dehydrogenase/Reductases (SDRs) or the Aldo-Keto Reductases (AKRs). The AKRs include virtually all mammalian 3alpha-HSDs, Type 5 17beta-HSD, ovarian 20alpha-HSDs as well as the steroid 5beta-reductases. Selective inhibitors of 3alpha-HSD isoforms could control occupancy of the androgen and GABA(A) receptors, while broader based AKR inhibitors targeting 3alpha-HSD, 20alpha-HSD and prostaglandin F2alpha synthase could maintain pregnancy. We have determined three X-ray crystal structures of rat liver 3alpha-HSD, a representative AKR. These structures are of the apoenzyme (E), the binary-complex (E.NADP-), and the ternary complex (E.NADP+.testosterone). These structures are being used with site-directed mutagenesis to define the molecular determinants of steroid recognition and catalysis as a first step in rational inhibitor design. A conserved catalytic tetrad (Tyr55, Lys84, His117 and Asp50) participates in a 'proton-relay' in which Tyr55 acts as general acid/base catalyst. Its bifunctionality relies on contributions from His117 and Lys84 which alter the pKb and pKa, respectively of this residue. Point mutation of the tetrad results in different enzymatic activities. H117E mutants display 5beta-reductase activity while Y55F and Y55S mutants retain quinone reductase activity. Our results suggest that different transition states are involved in these reaction mechanisms. The ternary complex structure shows that the mature steroid binding pocket is comprised of ten residues recruited from five loops, and that there is significant movement of a C-terminal loop on binding ligand. Mutagenesis of pocket tryptophans shows that steroid substrates and classes of nonsteroidal inhibitors exhibit different binding modes which may reflect ligand-induced loop movement. Exploitation of these findings using steroidal and nonsteroidal mechanism based inactivators may lead to selective and broad based AKR inhibitors.
Sex hormone-binding globulin mediates steroid hormone signal transduction at the plasma membrane.	Sex hormone-binding globulin is a plasma glycoprotein that binds certain estrogens and androgens with high affinity. Over the past several years it has been shown that, in addition to functioning as a regulator of the free concentration of a number of steroid hormones, SHBG plays a central role in permitting certain steroid hormones to act without entering the cell. The system is complex. SHBG interacts with a specific, high affinity receptor (R(SHBG)) on cell membranes that appears to transduce its signal via a G protein. The SHBG-R(SHBG) complex causes the activation of adenylyl cyclase and the generation of cAMP within a matter of minutes after exposure to an appropriate steroid. Only steroids that bind to SHBG can activate SHBG-R(SHBG), but not all steroids that bind have this function, e.g. are agonists. All steroids that bind to SHBG but do not activate adenylyl cyclase are antagonists. The signals generated by the steroid-SHBG-R(SHBG) complex generate messages that have effects on the transcriptional activity of classic, intracellular receptors for steroid hormones. These and other downstream effects of this system are reviewed.
Steroid sensitivity of norepinephrine uptake by human bronchial arterial and rabbit aortic smooth muscle cells.	We have shown that an inhaled glucocorticosteroid (GS) causes alpha(1)-adrenergic antagonist-blockable, rapid, and transient bronchial vasoconstriction in healthy and asthmatic subjects. Steroids inhibit norepinephrine (NE) uptake by non-neuronal cells, thereby increasing NE concentration at alpha-adrenergic receptor sites. This could explain the GS-induced bronchial vasoconstriction. We therefore studied expression of the steroid-sensitive extraneuronal monoamine transporter (EMT) and steroid sensitivity of NE uptake in human bronchial artery and rabbit aorta (as a substitute for the limited supply of human bronchial artery). NE uptake was measured using a semiquantitative, sucrose-potassium phosphate-glyoxylic acid fluorescence method that we newly adapted for use in single cells. Both human bronchial arteries and rabbit aorta expressed messenger RNA for EMT, and steroids blocked NE uptake into freshly dissociated human bronchial arterial and rabbit aortic smooth-muscle cells (SMCs). In the latter, inhibition of NE uptake by steroids was not altered, either by a protein synthesis inhibitor (cycloheximide) or by a transcription inhibitor (actinomycin D), and corticosterone made membrane-impermeant by conjugation to bovine serum albumin inhibited NE uptake equipotently. These data show that NE uptake into bronchial arterial and rabbit aortic SMCs is sensitive to steroids, possibly mediated by EMT, and suggest a mechanism for GS-induced bronchial vasoconstriction.
In vivo effect of PC-SPES on prostate growth and hepatic CYP3A expression in rats.	PC-SPES, a proprietary mixture composed of eight different herbs, is used worldwide as an alternative treatment by prostate cancer patients. It has been suggested that the clinical and in vitro antitumor activity exhibited by PC-SPES may be due to estrogenic activity, which in turn may be mediated by the presence of undeclared prescription drug contaminants. Here, we evaluated the in vivo effects of two different commercial lots of PC-SPES in male and female rats. Our high-pressure liquid chromatography analysis coupled with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis by an independent laboratory suggested that PC-SPES lot 5430125 was contaminated with diethylstilbestrol (DES), whereas lot 5431249 was not. Treatment of male rats with PC-SPES lot 5430125 or DES alone reduced the weight of androgen target organs and decreased circulating levels of sex steroids and luteinizing hormone, whereas lot 5431249 was without effect. In addition, lot 5430125 and DES, but not lot 5431249 increased uterine weight in female rats. These results suggest that the inhibitory effects on androgen targets are mediated through suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and this suppression is probably due to DES contamination. We assessed the effects of both lots of PC-SPES and DES on hepatic cytochrome P450 expression and activity. Both lots of PC-SPES and DES reduced CYP3A activity and protein levels. Because the response of CYP3A to PC-SPES was not dependent on whether it contained DES, a phytochemical component of PC-SPES is most likely responsible for this effect. Inhibition of CYP3A has important implications for potential herbal-drug interactions.
Determination of 3-keto-4-ene steroids and their hydroxylated metabolites catalyzed by recombinant human cytochrome P450 1B1 enzyme using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry with trimethylsilyl derivatization.	A protocol utilizing gas chromatography with selected ion monitoring mass spectrometric detection (GC-SIM-MS) using a simplified trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatization protocol was developed and validated for the determination of hydroxylated metabolites of 3-keto-4-ene steroids such as testosterone, progesterone and androstenedione. Hydroxylated metabolites catalyzed by human CYP1B1 were extracted with methylene chloride and derivatized with BSTFA-10% TMCS. To get an optimal derivatizing condition, the effect of various incubation times and temperatures was evaluated. When the incubation temperature and time in the presence of the TMS derivatizing agent were increased, the 3-keto group became derivatized with TMS to form a 3-TMS derivative. To minimize the formation of the TMS ether on the 3-keto group, a reaction condition of 56 degrees C for 10 min was used for the routine measurement of the steroids and their hydroxylated metabolite. Performance studies including linearity of calibration curves, extraction efficiency and precision were performed. Linearity of the calibration curves was satisfactory from 0.125 to 5 microM for most compounds except 21-hydroxyprogesterone and 16alpha-hydroxyandrostenedione which deviated from linearity at the lower concentrations. Mean percentage extraction recoveries were greater than 80% for all compounds. Most compounds showed good precisions with C.V.s of within-day precision of less than 5% and C.V.s of between-day precision of less than 10%. The selected ion chromatograms from the recombinant human CYP1B1 incubations with testosterone, progesterone and androstenedione showed evidence of 6beta-, 16alpha-, 2alpha-, and 15alpha-hydroxytestosterone, 6alpha- and 16alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and 6alpha- and 16alpha-hydroxyandrostenedione, respectively. There was no significant interference associated with Escherichia coli membrane extracts in detecting hydroxylated metabolites. This procedure provides a rapid and sensitive method for the evaluation of steroid hydroxylation by CYP isoenzymes.
Concentrations of four fecal steroids in wild baboons: short-term storage conditions and consequences for data interpretation.	One source of both bias and "noise" in fecal steroid analysis is temporal change in steroid concentrations resulting from duration or conditions of fecal sample storage. However, no consensus currently exists regarding correct procedures or precautions necessary for fecal sample storage, and conditions vary widely within field endocrinology literature. This study considered the effects of short-term, weeks-long, storage conditions on quantifiable fecal testosterone (fT), glucocorticoids (fGC), estrogens (fE), and progestagen (fP) metabolite concentrations in wild baboons (Papio cynocephalus). Quadruplicate subsamples of fecal samples (n=29) collected at Amboseli National Park and its environs were subjected to four different storage conditions prior to lyophilization, in order to determine the effects of storage on subsequent steroid concentrations, as assessed by 125I radioimmunoassays. As expected, the best alternative to the "initial condition" of lyophilization at three days after collection was to freeze fecal samples at -20 degrees C for two weeks prior to lyophilization. This storage method resulted in no significant change from initial steroid concentrations for fE, fT, or fP, although fGC showed a slight but significant decline. Storage for two weeks in a charcoal refrigerator caused a mean increase in all four steroid concentrations. However, the results from this storage condition were robust in terms of practical questions asked of the data: fE and fP values still reflected pregnant versus non-pregnant states in baboon females; a fGC profile constructed by age class resembled that created from the samples from the initial condition, although slightly inflated across age classes; and there were only moderate changes in relative fT concentrations across adult males. Knowledge of the effects of storage upon each steroid analyzed within one's study is a necessary component in determining the optimal compromise for storage protocol in a particular research project.
Nongenomic steroid action: controversies, questions, and answers.	Steroids may exert their action in living cells by several ways: 1). the well-known genomic pathway, involving hormone binding to cytosolic (classic) receptors and subsequent modulation of gene expression followed by protein synthesis. 2). Alternatively, pathways are operating that do not act on the genome, therefore indicating nongenomic action. Although it is comparatively easy to confirm the nongenomic nature of a particular phenomenon observed, e.g., by using inhibitors of transcription or translation, considerable controversy exists about the identity of receptors that mediate these responses. Many different approaches have been employed to answer this question, including pharmacology, knock-out animals, and numerous biochemical studies. Evidence is presented for and against both the participation of classic receptors, or proteins closely related to them, as well as for the involvement of yet poorly understood, novel membrane steroid receptors. In addition, clinical implications for a wide array of nongenomic steroid actions are outlined.
Gonadal, adrenal, and neuroactive steroids' role in ictal activity.	Of the many people that have epilepsy, only about 70% achieve seizure control with traditional pharmacotherapies. Steroids have long been known to influence ictal activity and may have a therapeutic role. This review summarizes recent investigations that have enhanced knowledge of the effects and mechanisms of gonadal, adrenal, and neuroactive steroids on seizure processes. Progesterone, which varies across reproductive cycles, pregnancy, and as a function of aging, has been shown to have anti-seizure effects among women with epilepsy and in animal models of epilepsy. Further, data suggest that progesterone's anti-seizure effects may involve its metabolism to the neuroactive steroid, 5 alpha-pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one (3 alpha,5 alpha-THP), and its subsequent actions at GABA(A) receptors. Androgens also have anti-seizure effects. Androgens' anti-seizure effects may be mediated, in part, through actions of the testosterone metabolite, and neuroactive steroid, 5 alpha-androstane-3 alpha,17 alpha-diol (3 alpha-diol) at GABA(A) receptors. Stress can alter seizure susceptibility, suggesting a role of adrenal steroids on seizure processes. In animal models of epilepsy, acute or chronic stress can increase ictal activity. Notably, stress and seizures can alter levels of gonadal, adrenal, and neuroactive steroids, which may then influence subsequent seizure activity. Thus, this review summarizes recent progress in the role of gonadal, adrenal, and/or neuroactive steroids in seizure processes which suggest that greater understanding of these steroids' effects and mechanisms may ultimately lead to improved seizure control for people with epilepsy.
Variation of hepatic glucuronidation: Novel functional polymorphisms of the UDP-glucuronosyltransferase UGT1A4.	UDP-glucuronosyltransferases are a family of drug metabolizing enzymes contributing to hepatic drug metabolism and protection against environmental toxins. The aim of this study was to identify polymorphisms at the human UGT1A gene locus and to characterize their function and potential association with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Genomic DNA from the blood of 363 subjects (128 patients with HCC, 235 blood donors) was analyzed for polymorphisms of the UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A8, UGT1A9, UGT1A10 genes using polymerase chain reaction, sequencing analysis. Recombinant variant UGT protein was analyzed by activity assays. In the UGT1A8 gene an A173G variant and a conserved G to A exchange at position 765 were detected in 25% and 15%. UGT1A9 exhibited two variants C3Y and M33T in 1% and 3%. UGT1A10 exhibited conserved nucleotide exchanges (128 G-->A and 696 C-->T) in 2% and 13%. In the UGT1A3 gene a W11R, a V47A variant, and a conserved G to A exchange at position 81 with an incidence of 65%, 58%, and 65%, respectively, were identified. UGT1A4 exhibited a P24T and an L48V variant in 8% and 9%. UGT1A SNPs were not associated with HCC. UGT1A4 P24T and L48V exhibited reduced glucuronidation activities: beta-naphthylamine 30% and 50%, and dihydrotestosterone 50% and 0%, respectively. In conclusion, the high prevalence of SNPs throughout the human UGT1A gene locus illustrates a genetic basis of interindividual variations of hepatic metabolism. Two polymorphisms of the hepatic UGT1A4 protein show a differential metabolic activity toward mutagenic amines and endogenous steroids, altering hepatic metabolism and detoxification.
The transcriptional regulating protein of 132 kDa (TReP-132) differentially influences steroidogenic pathways in human adrenal NCI-H295 cells.	Steroid hormones synthesized from cholesterol in the adrenal gland are important regulators of many physiological processes. It is now well documented that the expression of many genes required for steroid biosynthesis is dependent on the coordinated expression of the nuclear receptor steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1). However, transcriptional mechanisms underlying the species-specific, developmentally programmed and hormone-dependent modulation of the adrenal steroid pathways remain to be elucidated. Recently, we demonstrated that the transcriptional regulating protein of 132 kDa (TReP-132) acts as a coactivator of SF-1 to regulate human P450scc gene transcription in human adrenal NCI-H295 cells. The present study shows that overexpression of TReP-132 increases the level of active steroids produced in NCI-H295 cells. The conversion of pregnenolone to downstream steroids following TReP-132 expression showed increased levels of glucocorticoids, C(19) steroids and estrogens. Correlating with these data, TReP-132 increases P450c17 activities via the induction of transcript levels and promoter activity of the P450c17 gene, an effect that is enhanced in the presence of cAMP or SF-1. In addition, P450aro activity and mRNA levels are highly induced by TReP-132, whereas 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type II and P450c11aldo transcript levels are only slightly modulated. Taken together, these results demonstrate that TReP-132 is a trans-acting factor of genes involved in adrenal glucocorticoid, C(19) steroid and estrogen production.
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R), vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGF-R) and fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGF-R) systems in porcine oviduct and endometrium during the time of implantation.	The oviduct and uterus provide the environment for the establishment of pregnancy. Among others, growth factor systems are involved in functional signaling interactions at the pre- and peri-implantation maternal-conceptus interface in pigs. Distinct regulation of epidermal growth factor Receptor (EGF-R), vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGF-R) and fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGF-R) systems and of bioactivation of EGF-R in porcine oviduct and endometrium during the estrous cycle, early pregnancy and during steroid replacement in ovariectomized gilts is summarized. Remarkable influences of ovarian steroids and EGF on the expression of specific markers of transcription and translation in these tissues are discussed. Known biological effects of the EGF, VEGF and FGF are related to cellular differentiation and angiogenesis. This suggests their involvement in the transformation of the endometrium into a decidua subsequently leading towards successful establishment of pregnancy. Peripheral steroids may exert their effects on epithelial cells both in a direct genomic manner or through mediators such as growth factors. The aim of our study was to draw specific attention to the paracrine regulation in the porcine endometrium especially during the implantation window.
Induction of polycystic ovary by testosterone in immature female rats: Modulation of apoptosis and attenuation of glucose/insulin ratio.	Polycystic ovarian syndrome is seen in 5% of fertile aged women. However, there is no satisfactory PCOS model in experimental animals. To induce polycystic ovary phenotype in immature female rats, Wistar rats 21 days of age were injected daily with testosterone propionate 1 mg/100 g body weight dissolved in propylene glycol or propylene glycol for up to 35 days. Seven days of injection with testosterone (T) resulted in the appearance of large cystic follicles and a dramatic accumulation of multi-layer preantral follicles. At 42 days of age puberty in control animals was evident by the appearance of corpora lutea. In contrast in T treated animals no corpora lutea formation was seen even at the age of 56 days. Progesterone in the control animals was elevated at the age of 42 days in contrast with the T treated animals in which progesterone remained low (20% of control). While during 14 days of T injection most of the follicles did not have progressive apoptosis, at 21-35 days of injection (42-56 days of age) the vast majority of follicles became apoptotic. Progressive degeneration of oocytes was evident in T treated animals reaching 70-85% of total oocytes at 21-35 days of T injection compared to 30-40% in control animals. Western blot analysis of ovarian homogenates revealed gradual decrease in Bcl-2 content, evident at 28 and 35 days of T injection compared to control animals. Interestingly, the fasting glucose/insulin ratio was dramatically reduced in T treated animals following 14 days of testosterone treatment compared to controls. Our data suggest that T injection to immature female rats can induce polycystic ovaries, block ovulation and attenuate progesterone production. Moreover, normal/low glucose and high insulin blood levels in the testosterone treated rats raises the possibility that elevated androgens can lead to insulin resistance in this experimental PCOS model.
Expression and activity of steroid aldoketoreductases 1C in omental adipose tissue are positive correlates of adiposity in women.	We examined expression and activity of steroid aldoketoreductase (AKR) 1C enzymes in adipose tissue in women. AKR1C1 (20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase; 20alpha-HSD), AKR1C2 (3alpha-HSD-3), and AKR1C3 (17beta-HSD-5) are involved mainly in conversion of progesterone to 20alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and inactivation of dihydrotestosterone to 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17beta-diol. Abdominal subcutaneous and omental adipose tissue biopsies were obtained during abdominal hysterectomies in seven women with low visceral adipose tissue (VAT) area and seven age- and total body fat mass-matched women with visceral obesity. Women with elevated VAT areas were characterized by significantly higher omental adipose tissue 20alpha-HSD and 3alpha-HSD-3 mRNA abundance compared with women with low VAT accumulations (1.4- and 1.6-fold differences, respectively; P < 0.05). Omental and subcutaneous adipose tissue 3alpha-HSD activities were significantly higher in women with high vs. low VAT areas (P < 0.05 for both comparisons). Total and visceral adiposities were positively associated with omental 20alpha-HSD mRNA level (r = 0.75, P < 0.003 for fat mass; r = 0.57, P < 0.04 for VAT area) and omental 3alpha-HSD-3 mRNA level (r = 0.68, P < 0.01 for fat mass; r = 0.74, P < 0.003 for VAT area). Enzyme activities in both depots were also positively correlated with adiposity measures. Omental adipose tissue enzyme expression and activity were positively associated with omental adipocyte size and LPL activity. In conclusion, mRNA abundance and activity of AKR1C enzymes in abdominal adipose tissue compartments are positive correlates of adiposity in women. Increased progesterone and/or dihydrotestosterone reduction in abdominal adipose tissue may impact locally on fat cell metabolism.
Heterodimerization and endocytosis of Arabidopsis brassinosteroid receptors BRI1 and AtSERK3 (BAK1).	In Arabidopsis thaliana brassinosteroid (BR), perception is mediated by two Leu-rich repeat receptor-like kinases, BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1 (BRI1) and BRI1-ASSOCIATED RECEPTOR KINASE1 (BAK1) (Arabidopsis SOMATIC EMBRYOGENESIS RECEPTOR-like KINASE3 [AtSERK3]). Genetic, biochemical, and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) interaction studies suggested that the BRI1-BAK1 receptor complex initiates BR signaling, but the role of the BAK1 receptor is still not clear. Using transient expression in protoplasts of BRI1 and AtSERK3 fused to cyan and yellow fluorescent green fluorescent protein variants allowed us to localize each receptor independently in vivo. We show that BRI1, but not AtSERK3, homodimerizes in the plasma membrane, whereas BRI1 and AtSERK3 preferentially heterodimerize in the endosomes. Coexpression of BRI1 and AtSERK3 results in a change of the steady state distribution of both receptors because of accelerated endocytosis. Endocytic vesicles contain either BRI1 or AtSERK3 alone or both. We propose that the AtSERK3 protein is involved in changing the equilibrium between plasma membrane-located BRI1 homodimers and endocytosed BRI1-AtSERK3 heterodimers.
Injectable dexamethasone administration enhances cortical GABAergic neuronal differentiation in a novel model of postnatal steroid therapy in mice.	Injectable dexamethasone (DXM) is widely used during the postnatal period in premature infants. However, this treatment has been associated with an increased incidence of neuromotor disorders. Few studies have directly addressed the impact of DXM therapy on neuronal differentiation. We used a murine model of postnatal steroid therapy in which mouse pups aged 3 and 4 postnatal days (P) received intraperitoneal injections of 1 mg . kg(-1) . 12 h(-1) of an injectable preparation that contained DXM and sulfites (DXM), pure DXM, or sulfites. The animals were weighed before they were killed on P5, P10, or P21, and their brains were investigated by immunohistochemistry with markers for neuronal differentiation. DXM administration was associated with a 20-30% reduction in body and brain weight gains and in cortical thickness on P5 and P10. gamma-Amino-butyric acid+ (GABA+) interneuron density was significantly increased (+50%) in the cerebral cortex of the animals given injectable DXM on P5 to P21 compared with controls (p < 0.01). In parallel, the density of cortical neurons expressing two interneuron markers (calbindin 28-kD and calretinin) increased significantly. These alterations occurred with injectable DXM but not with pure DXM or sulfites alone. In contrast, none of the study treatments modified the expression of other markers for neuronal transmission or axon myelination. In the animals that were given injectable DXM, cleaved caspase 3 antibody showed increased neuronal cell death, but calbindin antibody did not. In conclusion, in a murine model of postnatal steroid therapy, injectable DXM induced a selective increase in GABAergic neurons in the cerebral cortex.
Androgen and estrogen treatment, alone or in combination, differentially influences bone maturation and hypothalamic mechanisms that time puberty in the male rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta).	In higher primates, the mechanisms that govern the ontogeny of gonadotropin-releasing hormone pulse generator activity and that, therefore, dictate the timing of the onset of puberty remain intriguingly elusive. Groups of three infant agonadal male monkeys were treated with sex steroids [17beta-estradiol (E(2)), testosterone (T), or dihydrotestosterone (DHT)] for the first year of life to advance bone age (BA). E(2) and T resulted in a significant advancement of BA, and a pubertal BA of 130 wk was attained at a mean chronological age of 64 and 67 wk, respectively. In contrast, DHT failed to advance BA during treatment but stimulated linear growth. All animals exhibited a pubertal resurgence in LH secretion, but the timing of this developmental event did not differ between treatment and control groups (the mean for all animals was 117.7 +/- 8.9 wk). Two of the three T-treated animals, however, displayed a pubertal LH resurgence at a remarkably young age (70 and 76 wk of age) that coincided with T withdrawal. During the period of steroid treatment, all three groups were significantly heavier than the controls. The rate of body weight gain was most rapid in the DHT-treated group. Steroid treatments also resulted in accelerated linear growth. Body weight gain and linear growth continued at the same rate as controls after withdrawal of treatment. These data indicate that attainment of a pubertal BA may be a necessary but not a sufficient factor to trigger the onset of puberty. The results not only are consistent with the view that androgen-induced skeletal maturation in males is mediated by estrogen receptor activity but also indicate that androgen receptor activity contributes to the pubertal growth spurt in males.
Urinary excretion of steroid metabolites after chronic androstenedione ingestion.	Urinary steroid excretion after androstenedione intake has been examined after a single dose of 50 mg and single doses of 100 or 300 mg/d for 7 d. We evaluated the effects of 28 d of 100 mg three times a day (t.i.d.) androstenedione intake on urinary steroid excretion. Twenty healthy men, ages 30-39 yr (33.5 +/- 0.6), consumed 100 mg androstenedione t.i.d. or placebo for 28 d. Urine samples were analyzed for testosterone, epitestosterone, androsterone, and etiocholanolone via HPLC/tandem mass spectrometry on d 0 and 28. Androstenedione intake increased (P < 0.05) urinary testosterone 35.1 +/- 10.5 ng/ml vs. 251.6 +/- 87.5 ng/ml, epitestosterone 35.3 +/- 8.8 ng/ml vs. 99.7 +/- 28.7 ng/ml, androsterone 2,102 +/- 383 ng/ml vs. 15,767 +/- 3,358 ng/ml, and etiocholanolone 1,698 +/- 409 ng/ml vs. 11,329 +/- 2,656 ng/ml (means +/- se). Although the testosterone to epitestosterone ratio (T/E) tended to increase with androstenedione intake (1.2 +/- 0.3 vs. 4.0 +/- 1.6; P = 0.12), only one subject had a urinary T/E greater than the current Olympic criteria (>6.0) for a positive drug test. Chronic intake of 100 mg androstenedione t.i.d. increases the urinary excretion of steroid metabolites. Due to inconsistent increases in the T/E ratio, the T/E ratio may not effectively detect androstenedione use.
Brain neurosteroids in gender-related aggression induced by social isolation.	Genetic, environmental, or hormonal factors and their interactions have been implicated in the expression of gender-related aggressive behavior in humans. Several independent lines of evidence support the role of hormonal and environmental factors in the aggressive behavior of experimental animals. Social isolation (SI) for 2-4 weeks in male but not in female mice results in the expression of aggression to a same-sex intruder. Long-term treatment (3 weeks) with anabolic steroids during SI in female mice induces aggressive behavior toward a male intruder of a severity similar to that observed in socially isolated (SI) male mice. The induced aggression in male and female mice is associated with a decrease of brain allopreg-nanolone (Allo). In SI male mice, aggression can be prevented by treatment with L-methionine (MET), which has also been shown to decrease reelin and GAD67 mRNA expression and maintain normal brain Allo content. The histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid can reverse this process, suggesting that histone tail acetylation may reverse the action of MET. We conclude that during social isolation, aggression can be controlled either by preventing Allo downregulation (e.g., by treatment with MET) or by direct administration of Allo or of agents (e.g., fluoxetine) that upregulate brain Allo content in SI mice.
Crystal structure of human glutathione S-transferase A3-3 and mechanistic implications for its high steroid isomerase activity.	The crystal structure of human class alpha glutathione (GSH) S-transferase A3-3 (hGSTA3-3) in complex with GSH was determined at 2.4 A. Despite considerable amino acid sequence identity with other human class alpha GSTs (e.g., hGSTA1-1), hGSTA3-3 is unique due to its exceptionally high steroid double bond isomerase activity for the transformation of Delta(5)-androstene-3,17-dione (Delta(5)-AD) to Delta(4)-androstene-3,17-dione. A comparative analysis of the active centers of hGSTA1-1 and hGSTA3-3 reveals that residues in positions 12 and 208 may contribute to their disparate isomerase activity toward Delta(5)-AD. Substitution of these two residues of hGSTA3-3 with the corresponding residues in hGSTA1-1 followed by kinetic characterization of the wild-type and the mutant enzymes supported this prediction. On the basis of our model of the hGSTA3-3.GSH.Delta(5)-AD ternary complex and available biochemical data, we propose that the thiolate group of deprotonated GSH (GS(-)) serves as a base to initiate the reaction by accepting a proton from the steroid and the nonionized hydroxyl group of catalytic residue Y9 (HO-Y9) functions as part of a proton-conducting wire to transfer a proton back to the steroid. Residue R15 may function to stabilize the deprotonated thiolate group of GSH (GS(-)), and a GSH-bound water molecule may donate a hydrogen bond to the 3-keto group of Delta(5)-AD and thus help the thiolate of GS(-) to initiate the proton transfer and the subsequent stabilization of the reaction intermediate.
Disruption of rapid, nongenomic steroid actions by environmental chemicals: interference with progestin stimulation of sperm motility in Atlantic croaker.	Several nongenomic steroid actions, like genomic ones, can be disrupted by estrogenic xenobiotics (xenoestrogens), but the extent and sensitivity of this alternative mechanism of steroid action to chemical interference remain unclear. The effects of environmentally realistic concentrations of a broad range of organic contaminants on the nongenomic action of a progestin (17,20beta,21-trihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one or 20beta-S) to upregulate Atlantic croaker sperm motility were examined in an in vitro bioassay. Pretreatment of sperm for 10 min in vitro with estrogenic compounds (estradiol-17beta, o,p'-DDT derivatives, zearalenone, bisphenol A, 2',3',4',5'-PCB-4-OH, kepone, chlordane, methoxyclor) and nonestrogenic organic compounds (p,p'-DDT derivatives, atrazine, Aroclor 1254, naphthalene, benzene) at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 10 microM did not decrease the percent of motile sperm, but all of them partially or completely blocked the response to 20beta-S. Most of the compounds impaired this endocrine mechanism at a concentration of 0.1 microM (approximately 30-40ppb), whereas o,p'-DDT and atrazine were effective at lower concentrations. The antagonistic actions of o,p'-DDT were partially reversed with 10-fold higher concentrations of 20beta-S, which is consistent with a hormone receptor-mediated mechanism of DDT action. The finding that low concentrations of a wide range of organic environmental contaminants can interfere with a rapid, nongenomic steroid action suggests that this mechanism of endocrine disturbance is of toxicological importance.
Arabidopsis membrane steroid binding protein 1 is involved in inhibition of cell elongation.	A putative Membrane Steroid Binding Protein (designated MSBP1) was identified and functionally characterized as a negative regulator of cell elongation in Arabidopsis thaliana. The MSBP1 gene encodes a 220-amino acid protein that can bind to progesterone, 5-dihydrotestosterone, 24-epi-brassinolide (24-eBL), and stigmasterol with different affinities in vitro. Transgenic plants overexpressing MSBP1 showed short hypocotyl phenotype and increased steroid binding capacity in membrane fractions, whereas antisense MSBP1 transgenic plants showed long hypocotyl phenotypes and reduced steroid binding capacity, indicating that MSBP1 negatively regulates hypocotyl elongation. The reduced cell elongation of MSBP1-overexpressing plants was correlated with altered expression of genes involved in cell elongation, such as expansins and extensins, indicating that enhanced MSBP1 affected a regulatory pathway for cell elongation. Suppression or overexpression of MSBP1 resulted in enhanced or reduced sensitivities, respectively, to exogenous progesterone and 24-eBL, suggesting a negative role of MSBP1 in steroid signaling. Expression of MSBP1 in hypocotyls is suppressed by darkness and activated by light, suggesting that MSBP1, as a negative regulator of cell elongation, plays a role in plant photomorphogenesis. This study demonstrates the functional roles of a steroid binding protein in growth regulation in higher plants.
Global analysis of RAR-responsive genes in the Xenopus neurula using cDNA microarrays.	Retinoid signaling is important for patterning the vertebrate hindbrain and midaxial regions. We recently showed that signaling through retinoic acid receptors (RARs) is essential for anteroposterior patterning along the entire body axis. To further investigate the mechanisms through which RARs act, we used microarray analysis to investigate the effects of modulating RAR activity on target gene expression. We identified 334 up-regulated genes (92% of which were validated), including known RA-responsive genes, known genes that have never been proposed as RA targets and many hypothetical and unidentified genes (n = 166). Sixty-seven validated down-regulated genes were identified, including known RA-responsive genes and anterior marker genes. The expression patterns of selected up-regulated genes (n = 45) were examined at neurula stages using whole-mount in situ hybridization. We found that most of these genes were expressed in the neural tube and many were expressed in anterior tissues such as neural crest, brain, eye anlagen, and cement gland. Some were expressed in tissues such as notochord, somites, pronephros, and blood islands, where retinoic acid (RA) plays established roles in organogenesis. Members of this set of newly identified RAR target genes are likely to play important roles in neural patterning and organogenesis under the control of RAR signaling pathways, and their further characterization will expand our understanding of RA signaling during development.
Enhanced donor-specific alloreactivity occurs independently of immunosuppression in children with early liver rejection.	To determine whether early acute cellular rejection (ACR) is associated with sub-optimal immunosuppression in children with liver transplants (LTx).
Molecular properties of food allergens.	Plant food allergens belong to a rather limited number of protein families and are also characterized by a number of biochemical and physicochemical properties, many of which are also shared by food allergens of animal origin. These include thermal stability and resistance to proteolysis, which are enhanced by an ability to bind ligands, such as metal ions, lipids, or steroids. Other types of lipid interaction, including membranes or other lipid structures, represent another feature that might promote the allergenic properties of certain food proteins. A structural feature clearly related to stability is intramolecular disulfide bonds alongside posttranslational modifications, such as N-glycosylation. Some plant food allergens, such as the cereal seed storage prolamins, are rheomorphic proteins with polypeptide chains that adopt an ensemble of secondary structures resembling unfolded or partially folded proteins. Other plant food allergens are characterized by the presence of repetitive structures, the ability to form oligomers, and the tendency to aggregate. A summary of our current knowledge regarding the molecular properties of food allergens is presented. Although we cannot as yet predict the allergenicity of a given food protein, understanding of the molecular properties that might predispose them to becoming allergens is an important first step and will undoubtedly contribute to the integrative allergenic risk assessment process being adopted by regulators.
Effects of oral androstenedione on steroid metabolism in liver of pregnant and non-pregnant female rats.	It is unknown whether androstenedione, a steroidal dietary supplement taken to enhance athletic performance, can affect physiological hormone levels by altering liver enzyme activities that metabolize steroid hormones. Altered hormone levels could be especially devastating during pregnancy. Mature female rats were gavaged with 0, 5, 30 or 60 mg/kg/day androstenedione beginning two weeks prior to mating and continuing through gestation day 19. Non-pregnant female rats were gavaged over the same time frame with 0 or 60 mg/kg/day androstenedione. Livers were removed from dams on gestation day 20 and from non-pregnant rats after five weeks' treatment. Liver microsomes were incubated with 200 microM testosterone, and the reaction products were isolated and analyzed by HPLC. In pregnant rats, formation of 6alpha-, 15beta-, 7alpha-, 16beta-, and 2beta-hydroxytestosterone was increased significantly vs. control at the highest dose level only. Formation of 6beta-hydroxytestosterone increased significantly at both the 30 and 60 mg/kg/day dose levels. In non-pregnant rats, 60 mg/kg/day androstenedione significantly increased formation of 15beta-, 6beta-, 16beta-, and 2beta-hydroxytestosterone. The data suggest that high oral doses of androstenedione can induce some female rat liver cytochromes P450 that metabolize steroid hormones and that the response to androstenedione does not differ between pregnant and non-pregnant female rats.
Steroid hormones regulate gene expression posttranscriptionally by altering the stabilities of messenger RNAs.	Hormones exert powerful effects on reproductive physiology by regulating gene expression. Recent discoveries in hormone action emphasize that regulation of gene expression is not restricted to their alterations of the rate of gene transcription. On the contrary, hormonal effects on the stability of a specific mRNA can profoundly alter its steady-state concentration. The mRNAs encoding hormone receptors are commonly regulated by their own hormones to create autoregulatory feedback loops. Negative and positive autoregulatory feedback loops serve to limit or augment hormonal responses, respectively. After introducing the topics of mRNA degradation and regulated stability, this review focuses on steroid hormone effects on mRNA stabilities. Autoregulation of the mRNAs encoding estrogen, progesterone, androgen, and glucocorticoid receptors by the steroid hormones in reproductive tissues is discussed. In addition, steroid hormone effects on the stabilities of many other mRNAs that are important to reproductive biology are reviewed. These include mRNAs that encode gonadotropin hormones, integrins, growth factors, and inflammatory response proteins. Through these posttranscriptional effects, steroid hormones impact the expression of a large population of genes. Studies of the molecular mechanisms of hormonally regulated mRNA stabilities continue to identify critical mRNA sequence elements and their interactions with proteins. Increased understanding of how hormones affect mRNA stability may yield novel approaches to the therapeutic control of hormone effects, including those essential to reproductive physiology in animals.
Studies on reproductive endocrinology in non-human primates: application of non-invasive methods.	A practical method for the quantitative measurement of estrone conjugates (E1C), pregnanediol-3-glucronide (PdG), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and monkey chorionic gonadotropin (mCG) in the excreta of non-human primates were described. In the series of studies, results suggest that 1) urinary and fecal steroid metabolites accurately reflected the same ovarian or testicular events as observed in plasma steroid profiles in captive Japanese macaques, time lags associated with fecal measurements were one day after appearance in urine; 2) these noninvasive methods were applicable to wild and free-ranging macaques for determining reproductive status; 3) hormonal changes during menstrual cycles and pregnancy could be analyzed by measurement of FSH, CG and steroid metabolites in the excreta in captive great apes and macaques; and 4) hormone-behavior relationships of macaques in their natural habitats and social setting could be analyzed. In macaques, between maternal rejection and excreted estrogen, but not excreted progesterone were associated, moreover, in male study, significantly higher levels of fecal cortisol were observed in high-ranking males. In addition, reliable noninstrumented enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (NELISA) for detection of early pregnancy in macaques was established. These results suggest that the noninvasive characteristic of excreted hormone monitoring provide a stress-free approach to the accurate evaluation of reproductive status in primates.
Ovarian activity and oocyte development during follicular development in pigs at different reproductive phases estimated by the repeated endoscopic method.	The aim of the present study was to assess follicular and oocyte development in the same gilts during three phases of their reproductive life [prepuberal gilts (PP; 6.0 months of age), puberal gilts (P; 9.5 months of age) and primiparous sows (S)]. Follicular development was stimulated by the injection of 1,000 IU of equine chorionic gonadotropin (eCG) followed by 500 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) 72 h later. Cumulus-oocyte-complexes (COCs) were recovered by endoscopic ovum pick up/aspiration from preovulatory follicles of the left ovary, and the follicular fluid (FF) from the right ovary was collected 34 h after the hCG treatment by endoscopy. Altogether, 19 pigs were used in the PP and P trials and 12 in the S trial. From the left ovaries, 168, 190 and 82 follicles were aspirated and 106, 125 and 42 COCs, respectively, were recovered (recovery rate 61 +/- 27, 63 +/- 21 and 53 +/- 22%, respectively). The mean number of follicles was greater in the P phase than in the PP phase (19.7 +/- 6.8 vs. 15.7 +/- 6.8; p=0.06) and S phases (14.2 +/- 4.0; p<0.05). More uniform oocytes with an expanded cumulus were aspirated in the P and PP phases than in the S phase (90 and 78 vs. 46%; p<0.05). Furthermore, the meiotic configuration in oocytes (T I/M II stage) differed between the three phases (56 and 62 vs. 0%; p<0.05). Progesterone (P4) levels in FF decreased from 590.0 +/- 333.6 (PP) to 249.1 +/- 72.6 (P) and 161.4 +/- 75.2 ng/ml (S) (p<0.05). Estradiol-17beta (E2) levels differed between PP and P gilts and S sows (9.3 +/- 2.9, 21.9 +/- 10.6 and 94.0 +/- 15.9 pg/ml, respectively; p<0.05), and the P4/E2 ratio was 72, 15 and 5, respectively. These results indicate differences in follicular and oocyte development between the reproductive phases investigated. Puberal gilts should preferably be used in IVF and breeding programs. The lower reproductive potential of primiparous sows must be taken into consideration in breeding. Any prediction of lifetime performance based on individual ovarian reactions of prepuberal gilts is unreliable.
Comparative binding study of steroidal adenine with flavin and uracil derivatives.	A comparative binding study of a steroidal adenine derivative based on lithocholic acid with N(10)-benzylisoalloxazine (flavin) and N(1)-iso-propyluracil has been described.
A life-long search for the molecular pathways of steroid hormone action.	The O'Malley laboratory first showed that estrogen and progesterone act in the nucleus to stimulate synthesis of specific mRNAs (ovalbumin and avidin), coding for their respective inducible proteins. The overall molecular pathway of steroid-receptor-DNA-mRNA-protein-function was then established and provided a coherent foundation for future studies of the impact of estrogen and progesterone receptors on endocrine tissue development, adult function, and in pathologies such as cancer. The lab group went on to: biochemically demonstrate ligand-induced conformational activation of progesterone and estrogen receptors, discover the concept of ligand-independent activation of steroid receptors, discover key steroid receptor coactivator intermediary coactivators for receptor function, and define the role of coactivators/corepressors in selective receptor modulator drug action and in cell homeostasis. This body of work advanced our molecular understanding of the critical role of steroid hormones in normal and abnormal physiology and also generated a base of scientific knowledge that served to further modern hormonal therapy and disease management.
Role of cysteines 640, 656, and 661 in steroid binding to rat glucocorticoid receptors.	The involvement of a vicinally spaced dithiol group in steroid binding to the glucocorticoid receptor has been deduced from experiments with the thiol-specific reagent methyl methanethiolsulfonate and the vicinal dithiol-specific reagent sodium arsenite. The vicinally spaced dithiol appears to reside in the 16-kDa trypsin fragment of the receptor, which is thought to contain 3 cysteines (Cys-640, -656, and -661 of the rat receptor) and binds hormone with an approximately 23-fold lower affinity than does the intact 98-kDa receptor. We now report that the steroid binding specificity of preparations of this 16-kDa fragment and the intact receptor are virtually identical. This finding supports our designation of the 16-kDa fragment as a steroid-binding core domain and validates our continued use of this tryptic fragment in studies of steroid binding. To identify the cysteines which comprise the vicinally spaced dithiol group, and to examine further the role of cysteines in steroid binding, a total of five point mutant receptors were prepared: cysteine-to-serine for each suspected cysteine, cysteine-to-glycine for Cys-656, and the C656,661S double mutant. Unexpectedly, each receptor with a single point mutation still bound steroid. Even the double mutant (C656,661S) bound steroid with wild type affinity. These results suggest that none of these cysteines are directly required either for steroid binding to the glucocorticoid receptor or for heat shock protein 90 association with the receptor. However, the presence of Cys-656 was obligatory for covalent labeling of the receptor by [3H]dexamethasone 21-mesylate. Studies with preparations of the 98 and 16 kDa forms of these mutant receptors revealed both that Cys-656 and -661 comprise the vicinally spaced dithiols reacting with arsenite and that any two of the three thiols could form an intramolecular disulfide after treatment with low concentrations of methyl methanethiolsulfonate. These data, in conjunction with those from experiments on the effects of steric bulk on various receptor functions, support a model for the ligand binding cavity of the receptor that involves all three thiols in a flexible cleft but where thiol-steroid interactions are not essential for binding.
Multiplicity of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases in fish. Purification and characterization of a phenol UDP-glucuronosyltransferase from the liver of a marine teleost, Pleuronectes platessa.	The aim of this work was to determine if a non-mammalian species had multiple UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UDPGT) isoforms. At least six highly purified UDPGT isoenzymes were partially resolved by anion-exchange chromatography and UDP-hexanolamine-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography from liver microsomes of a fish, the plaice. Q-Sepharose FF, chromatofocusing and affinity-chromatographic procedures were employed to separate and purify the phenol UDPGT isoform to apparent homogeneity. The purified enzyme conjugated 1-naphthol, but not bilirubin or steroids, and displayed a pI of 7.0 and a subunit molecular mass of 55 kDa. Bilirubin and testosterone UDPGT activities were more labile and, although purified over 200-fold, these preparations also contained the phenol UDPGT and had multiple polypeptides with molecular masses of 52-57 kDa. Antisera to rat bilirubin/phenol UDPGT and testosterone/phenol UDPGT isoforms cross-reacted strongly with the partially purified plaice UDPGT isoforms of molecular masses 52, 53 and 57 kDa and less strongly with phenol UDPGT 54 kDa and 56 kDa isoforms. Fish and mammalian UDPGTs therefore apparently possess a high degree of evolutionary conservation.
Reversed phase high performance liquid chromatographic separation of hydroxy steroidal unsaturated esters and their hemisuccinates.	The high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) separation and identification of 12 isomeric and/or highly chemically related steroids with an unsaturated ester moiety at position 17 beta has been achieved. The main stereochemical features of the steroid skeleton cover 3 alpha/beta, 5 alpha/beta or delta, and 20 E/Z, bearing the alcohol or hemisuccinate group at the 3 position. The isocratic reversed phase C18 HPLC separation employed ethanol, methanol and its mixtures with water or 0.01 M phosphoric acid as the mobile phase. The best separation of the respective alcohols from their hemisuccinates has been achieved with 20% of aqueous phase content. The best separation among isomeric or related steroids has been achieved with methanol:water 8:2 and 85:15 and similar systems containing phosphoric acid.
The effect of dietary calcium supplementation on intestinal lipid metabolism.	Population studies in man and experimental animal work support the contention that dietary supplementation with calcium may prevent the development of colorectal cancer. The mechanism of action is postulated to be bile acid chelation in the small-bowed forming non-toxic calcium soap compounds but such substances have yet to be isolated and quantified. In this 2-part study faecal concentrations of acidic lipids and neutral sterols were measured in 93 Sprague-Dawley rats whose calcium intake was modulated by enriching the chow and adding calcium lactate (24 milligrams) to the drinking water. In study-1 (dietary calcium intake doubled from 0.4-0.8%) small bowel resection was used to manipulate colonic lipid concentration for comparison with control rats who had undergone transection with immediate restoration of bowel continuity at an equivalent point. Faecal concentrations of free bile acids were 53-67% less in animals receiving added calcium [1.76 +/- 1.33 vs 0.82 +/- 0.65 mg/g (transection); 2.74 +/- 3.73 vs 1.03 +/- 1.27 mg/g (small bowel resection): P less than 0.001]. In study-2 (dietary calcium intake trebled to 1.21%) faecal bile acid concentration was reduced by 32% (1.86 +/- 0.57 vs 1.27 +/- 0.34 mg/g: NS) whereas long chain fatty acid concentrations were increased by 117% (6.77 +/- 2.39 vs 14.67 +/- 4.82 mg/g: P less than 0.001) in animals receiving added calcium. Serum calcium levels remained unchanged in these animals. Calcium soaps of the bile acids were not detected in faeces and therefore contrary to popular theory these results indicate that conditions within the intestinal lumen favour calcium chelation of long chain fatty acids rather than bile acids.
Adrenalectomy and castration in the genetically obese (ob/ob) mouse.	The present studies have tested the hypothesis that adrenalectomy could modify the phenotypic expression of genetic obesity by examining the effects of adrenalectomy on the function of the gonadal system in lean and ob/ob mice. Corticosterone concentrations were undetectable in the adrenalectomized animals. Adrenalectomy significantly slowed the weight gain of obese mice in comparison to sham-adrenalectomized controls. Gonadectomy had no independent effect on weight gain. The testes, prostate, and seminal vesicles in the ob/ob mice were significantly smaller than in the lean animals. Castration lowered the weights of the prostate and seminal vesicles in the lean mice to weights close to those observed in the castrated ob/ob mice. Castration significantly increased the concentrations of LH and FSH in both ob/ob and lean mice, but the absolute concentrations were higher in the lean mice in both conditions. Adrenalectomy per se had no effect on the concentration of LH, FSH, or testosterone or on the weights of the prostate or seminal vesicles. These data indicate that adrenalectomy has no effect on the physiologic control of the reproductive system in genetically obese mice, and are consistent with the hypothesis that the defect in the ob/ob mouse is a modulator of steroid action which over expresses glucocorticoid effects and under expresses gonadal steroid effects.
Stimulation of steroid secretion by adrenocorticotropin injections and by arginine vasopressin infusions: no evidence for a direct stimulation of the human adrenal by arginine vasopressin.	Arginine vasopressin stimulates the secretion of adrenocorticotropin. A direct stimulatory effect of AVP on cortisol as well as aldosterone secretion has been postulated by several investigators. To study the possible role of a direct stimulatory action of AVP on the adrenal cortex, normal volunteers were treated with incremental injections of ACTH or with incremental infusions of AVP which raised plasma AVP levels to a maximum of 256 +/- 16 pmol/l. In both situations, a significant (p less than 0.001) linear correlation between plasma ACTH and plasma cortisol was observed. The regression coefficients were not different (p greater than 0.5). Plasma aldosterone was stimulated by both treatments, but the weakly positive correlation between plasma ACTH and plasma aldosterone was not significant for either stimulus. Thus, in man, a direct stimulatory effect of AVP on cortisol secretion cannot be demonstrated. A direct effect of AVP on aldosterone cannot be definitely excluded, but is certainly of minor importance.
The effect of the aromatase inhibitor, rogletimide (pyridoglutethimide), on guinea pig adrenal cell steroidogenesis and placental microsomal aromatase activity: comparison with aminoglutethimide and CGS 16949A.	A dispersed guinea pig adrenal system has been used to study the effect of the aromatase inhibitor rogletimide (RGL) on adrenal steroidogenesis. The ACTH-stimulated release of cortisol, 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) and androstenedione (A) was measured following exposure of adrenal cells to RGL, or the other aromatase inhibitors aminoglutethimide (AG) and CGS 16949A. RGL at concentrations sufficient to cause 80-90% inhibition of placental microsomal aromatase had no effect on the release of all three steroids. In contrast, AG at 10(-5) M markedly reduced the output of all three steroids from these cells. CGS 16949A at 10(-6) M reduced the output of cortisol and increased the concentration of 17-OHP and A. These results indicate that RGL is unlikely to cause the suppression of cortisol synthesis which has been noted to occur with AG and CGS 16949A during the treatment of breast cancer patients.
Modulation of the binding characteristics of hypothalamic mu opioid receptors in rats by gonadal steroids.	Recent evidence suggests that the effects of the opioids on gonadotropin release may depend on the endocrine status existing in the experimental animal. In the brain, the effects of the opioids are exerted through the interaction with different classes of opioid receptors (mu, delta, kappa, etc.). Among these, the mu receptors appear to be particularly relevant to the control of gonadotropin secretion. Different groups of experiments have been performed in the rat in order to analyze whether changes of circulating levels of sex steroids may have an impact on the binding characteristics of hypothalamic mu opioid receptors, as evaluated by a receptor binding assay performed on plasma membrane preparations, using [3H]dihydromorphine as a mu ligand. In a first series of experiments, it has been observed that the ontogenesis of hypothalamic mu opioid receptors is different in male and in female rats: the concentration of mu sites, similar in animals of the two sexes at 16 days of age, increases in females, but not in males, between day 16 and day 26 of life. This sexual difference persists in 60-day old animals, when the brain is fully mature. It has also been observed that the pattern of maturation of hypothalamic mu receptors can be reversed by neonatal castration of males and by neonatal testosterone treatment of females. In a second series of experiments, it has been shown that in the hypothalamus of regularly cycling female rats the concentration of mu receptors varies during the different phases of the estrous cycle. In particular, a rather high density of mu sites during diestrus day 2 and the morning of the day of proestrus was found; this is followed by a progressive decline during the afternoon of the day of proestrus and the day of estrus, with a minimum value of the concentration of mu receptors being recorded in the first day of diestrus. These fluctuations seem to be linked to the physiological changes of serum levels of ovarian steroids: in fact, in a third series of experiments, it has been found that the positive feedback effect on LH release, exerted by the treatment of ovariectomized female rats with estrogens plus progesterone, is accompanied by a significant decrease of the concentration of hypothalamic mu opioid receptors; treatments with estrogens alone, able to induce a negative feedback effect on LH secretion, are not associated with modifications of hypothalamic mu receptors. These data seem to indicate that hypothalamic mu receptors may be involved in the positive but not in the negative feedback control of LH secretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Sex hormone-binding globulin: anatomy and physiology of a new regulatory system.	Sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) is a plasma glycoprotein that binds a number of circulating steroid hormones (testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and estradiol) with high affinity, thus regulating their free concentration in plasma. In addition to binding steroids, SHBG itself binds to receptor sites on plasma membranes with somewhat unusual kinetics. Both the off and on rates are quite slow. The steroid-binding and membrane-binding functions are intertwined in what is clearly an allosteric relationship. Occupation of SHBG's steroid-binding site by a steroid inhibits its ability to bind to its membrane receptor-binding site. This inhibition is not related to a steroid's biological activity. Metabolites of steroids without biological activity, e.g. 2-methoxyestradiol, actively inhibit SHBG's interaction with its membrane receptor. However, if unliganded SHBG is allowed to bind to its receptor on intact cells, and an appropriate steroid hormone then is introduced, adenylate cyclase is activated and intracellular cAMP increases. This function is specific for steroids with biological activity, 2-methoxyestradiol has no activity in this arena. These observations demonstrate a potentially important role for SHBG as a regulator of cell function. They also demonstrate an additional mode of action of steroid hormones, one that does not require that the steroid interact with a steroid receptor.
Social isolation stress and neuroactive steroids.	Social isolation of rats immediately after weaning is associated to a reduction in the cerebrocortical and plasma concentrations of progesterone and its metabolites 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG and 3alpha,5alpha-THDOC. Although we found that the basal plasma concentration of adrenocorticotropic hormone in isolated rats was slightly decreased compared with that in group-housed animals no other significant changes were found in the steroidogenic machinery (peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, steroidogenic regulatory protein (StAR)). However, the functional response of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis HPA axis to an acute stressful stimulus (foot shock), or to an acute injection of ethanol or isoniazid is markedly increased in isolated rats. Behavioral studies have also indicated that the ability of ethanol to inhibit isoniazid-induced convulsions is greater in isolated rats than in group-housed animals and this effect of isolation is prevented by treatment with the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride. Social isolation modified the effects of ethanol on the amounts of StAR mRNA and protein in the brain suggesting an alteration in the mechanism of cholesterol transport in mitochondria. Moreover, the amounts of the alpha4 and delta subunits of the GABA(A) receptor in the hippocampus were increased in isolated rats, and these effects were accompanied by an increase in GABA(A) receptor-mediated tonic inhibitory currents in granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Ethanol also increased the amplitude of GABA(A) receptor-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSC) recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons with a greater potency in hippocampal slices prepared from socially isolated rats than in those from group-housed, an effect inhibited by finasteride.
Distinct regulation by steroids of messenger RNAs for FSHR and CYP19A1 in bovine granulosa cells.	Steroidal regulation of gene expression in follicular cells is not completely defined. Granulosa cells from 5 mm bovine follicles were cultured and treated and steady-state mRNA levels determined for FSHR (follicle-stimulating hormone receptor) and CYP19A1 (aromatase). Cells were treated for 5 days with (0.1-300 ng/ml) 17beta-estradiol (E2), testosterone (T), or 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT). FSHR mRNA was increased by T and DHT but not E2. In contrast, CYP19A1 mRNA was induced by all doses of E2 but only high doses of T and DHT. Similarly, varying treatment duration (1-5 days) showed that FSHR was increased by T and DHT and CYP19A1 mRNA increased by E2 and T at all times. Synergism between steroid hormones and FSH or forskolin was also evaluated. FSH or E2 did not alter FSHR mRNA and did not enhance DHT stimulation of FSHR mRNA. In contrast, DHT alone had no effect on CYP19A1 mRNA but synergized with FSH plus E2 to increase CYP19A1 mRNA, probably due to induction of FSHR by DHT. Effects of E2 and T on CYP19A1 were blocked by ICI 182,780, indicating mediation by estrogen receptors. However, the specific androgen receptor antagonist bicalutamide did not block E2 or T effects on CYP19A1 but did block T and DHT stimulation of FSHR. Thus, FSHR is specifically regulated through androgen receptor, whereas CYP19A1 is regulated by multiple pathways, including estrogen receptors and cAMP/protein kinase A induced by FSHR activation in granulosa cells. These inter- and intracellular regulatory mechanisms may be critical for normal follicle growth and dominant follicle selection.
Microbial metabolism of methyl protodioscin by Aspergillus niger culture--a new androstenedione producing way from steroid.	Methyl protodioscin (1), a natural furostanol biglycoside steroid, was a preclinical anticancer drug, which showed potent activity against most cell lines from leukemia and solid tumors in the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) human cancer panel. Metabolism of methyl protodioscin by Aspergillus niger was investigated. Seven metabolites were isolated and identified. Two main metabolites were pregnane glycosides and four were furostanol glycosides, together with the aglycone. It was found that steroidal saponin skeleton could be converted to pregnenolone skeleton only using microbial methods, which must have chemical procedures in the reported literatures. The proposed biosynthetic pathways of the microbial conversion products of methyl protodioscin were drawn. The found enriched the reaction types of microbial bioconversion and provided a new producing way of androstenedione from steroid. Most metabolites showed strong cytotoxic activities against HepG2, NCI-H460, HeLa, and MCF-7 cell lines.
Involvement of the adenylyl cyclase/protein kinase A signaling pathway in the stimulatory effect of PACAP on frog adrenocortical cells.	We have previously shown that PACAP stimulates in vitro the secretion of corticosteroids by frog adrenal explants and that PACAP increases cAMP formation and cytosolic calcium concentration ('Ca2+'i) in adrenocortical cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the involvement of cAMP and 'Ca2+'i in the stimulatory effect of PACAP on steroid production. Incubation of adrenal explants with PACAP resulted in a significant increase in total inositol phosphate formation. Administration of the protein kinase A inhibitor, H89, markedly reduced the stimulatory effect of PACAP on corticosterone and aldosterone secretion by perifused adrenal slices. In contrast, chelation of intracellular or extracellular calcium, or incubation with calcium channel blockers, had no effect on PACAP-evoked steroid secretion. Incubation of the cells with BAPTA or thapsigargin totally suppressed the stimulatory effect of PACAP on 'Ca2+'i. In contrast, suppression of extracellular calcium with EGTA or blockage of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels did not impair PACAP-induced Ca2+ response. These data indicate that, in frog adrenocortical cells, the stimulatory effect of PACAP on steroid secretion is mediated through activation of the cAMP/PKA pathway. Concurrently, PACAP causes calcium mobilization from IP(3)-dependent intracellular stores through activation of a phospholipase C, while the calcium response is not involved in the stimulatory effect of PACAP on corticosteroid secretion.
Liver X receptors regulate adrenal steroidogenesis and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal feedback.	The nuclear hormone receptors liver X receptor alpha (LXRalpha) (NR1H3) and LXRbeta (NR1H2) are established regulators of cholesterol, lipid, and glucose metabolism and are attractive drug targets for the treatment of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Adrenal steroid hormones including glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids are known to interfere with glucose metabolism, insulin signaling, and blood pressure regulation. Here we present genome-wide expression profiles of LXR-responsive genes in both the adrenal and the pituitary gland. LXR activation in cultured adrenal cells inhibited expression of multiple steroidogenic genes and consequently decreased adrenal steroid hormone production. In addition, LXR agonist treatment elevated ACTH mRNA expression and hormone secretion from pituitary cells both in vitro and in vivo. Reduced expression of the glucocortioid-activating enzyme 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 in pituitary cells upon LXR activation suggests blunting of the negative feedback of glucocorticoids by LXRs. In conclusion, LXRs independently interfere with the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation at the level of the pituitary and the adrenal gland.
Quantitative analysis of messenger RNA expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2 and MMP-9), tissue inhibitor-2 of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMP-2), and steroidogenic enzymes in bovine placentomes during gestation and postpartum.	The relationship between the mRNA expression of proteolytic and steroidogenic enzymes in bovine placentomes was examined. Caruncle and cotyledon tissues were collected every 6 hr after spontaneous parturition until the fetal membranes were released. Based on the time of fetal membrane release after parturition, the specimens were classified as follows: (1) the early group, in which the fetal membranes were released within 6 hr after parturition; and (2) the late group, in which the fetal membranes were released 6-12 hr after parturition. The placentomes from a slaughterhouse were additionally collected as samples for the examination of enzymes during the gestation period. The mRNA expression of steroidogenic enzymes in the cotyledon was observed to be higher than that in caruncle tissues; however, the mRNA expression patterns of P450scc and StAR tended to be similar in both placental tissues. On the other hand, although the expression levels of TIMP-2 mRNA in both caruncle and cotyledon tissues were similar, during gestation and postpartum the expression levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 mRNA were approximately 10 times higher in caruncle than in cotyledon tissue. Marked contrasting changes in mRNA expression patterns between pre- and postpartum periods were observed for MMP-2 and MMP-9 in caruncle tissues and for MMP-9 and TIMP-2 in cotyledon tissues. The present study provides the first evidence that MMP-2, MMP-9, and TIMP-2 mRNAs are expressed in bovine placentomes during the gestational and postpartum periods and suggests that these enzymes, in conjunction with steroidogenic enzymes, mediate fetal membrane detachment after parturition.
Obesity and sex steroids during gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist treatment for prostate cancer.	To evaluate effects of obesity on sex steroid levels during treatment with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist in men with prostate cancer.
Proteomic analysis of steroid-triggered autophagic programmed cell death during Drosophila development.	Two morphological forms of programmed cell death, apoptosis and autophagic cell death, remove unneeded or damaged cells during animal development. Although the mechanisms that regulate apoptosis are well studied, little is known about autophagic cell death. A shotgun proteome analysis of purified dying larval salivary glands in Drosophila was used to identify proteins that are expressed during autophagic programmed cell death. A total of 5661 proteins were identified from stages before and after the onset of cell death. Analyses of these data enabled us to identify proteins from a number of interesting categories including regulators of transcription, the apoptosis, autophagy, lysosomal, and ubiquitin proteasome degradation pathways, and proteins involved in growth control. Several of the identified proteins, including the serine/threonine kinase warts (Wts), were not detected using whole-genome DNA microarrays, providing support for the importance of such high-throughput proteomic technology. Wts regulates cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis, and significantly, mutations in wts prevent destruction of salivary glands.
Gene expression profiles of murine fatty liver induced by the administration of valproic acid.	Valproic acid (VPA) has been used as anticonvulsants, however, it induces hepatotoxicity such as microvesicular steatosis and necrosis in the liver. To explore the mechanisms of VPA-induced steatosis, we profiled the gene expression patterns of the mouse liver that were altered by treatment with VPA using microarray analysis. VPA was orally administered as a single dose of 100 mg/kg (low-dose) or 1000 mg/kg (high-dose) to ICR mice and the animals were killed at 6, 24, or 72 h after treatment. Serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels were not significantly altered in the experimental animals. However, symptoms of steatosis were observed at 72 h with low-dose and at 24 h and 72 h with high-dose. After microarray data analysis, 1910 genes were selected by two-way ANOVA (P<0.05) as VPA-responsive genes. Hierarchical clustering revealed that gene expression changes depended on the time rather than the dose of VPA treatment. Gene profiling data showed striking changes in the expression of genes associated with lipid, fatty acid, and steroid metabolism, oncogenesis, signal transduction, and development. Functional categorization of 1156 characteristically up- and down-regulated genes (cutoff >1.5-fold) revealed that 60 genes were involved in lipid metabolism that was interconnected with biological pathways for biosynthesis of triglyceride and cholesterol, catabolism of fatty acid, and lipid transport. This gene expression profile may be associated with the known steatogenic hepatotoxicity of VPA and it may provide useful information for prediction of hepatotoxicity of unknown chemicals or new drug candidates through pattern recognition.
Variation of steroid concentrations during the reproductive cycle of the clam Ruditapes decussatus: a one year study in the gulf of Gabs area.	Progesterone, testosterone and estradiol-17beta were measured by radio-immunoassay (RIA) in the gonads of the clam Ruditapes decussatus. The reproductive cycle was also investigated. Our study covered a period of one year, from September 2003 to August 2004. The chosen site "Kerkennah", located out of industrial effluents, belongs to the gulf of Gabs area (Tunisia). Steroids varied from 178 to 2459 pg g(-1) wet mass for progesterone, from 40 to 326 pg g(-1) wet mass for testosterone and from 10 to 235 pg g(-1) wet mass for estradiol-17beta in females. However in males, these steroids ranged from 304 to 2303 pg g(-1) wet mass for progesterone, from 81 to 381 pg g(-1) wet mass for testosterone and from 48 to 168 pg g(-1) wet mass for estradiol-17beta. The reproductive cycle of R. decussatus, investigated by histological examination of gonadic sections, showed that gametogenesis occurred from April to February in males and from April to November in females. Progesterone and testosterone increased at the end of gametogenesis in both sexes. The highest estradiol-17beta was recorded at the beginning of vitellogenesis in females. Fluctuations in the levels of sex steroids during the reproductive cycle suggest their possible role as endogenous modulators of gametogenesis in R. decussatus. Although this species is considered as gonochoristic, 0.83% of hermaphrodites were observed.
Transplacental exposure to inorganic arsenic at a hepatocarcinogenic dose induces fetal gene expression changes in mice indicative of aberrant estrogen signaling and disrupted steroid metabolism.	Exposure to inorganic arsenic in utero in C3H mice produces hepatocellular carcinoma in male offspring when they reach adulthood. To help define the molecular events associated with the fetal onset of arsenic hepatocarcinogenesis, pregnant C3H mice were given drinking water containing 0 (control) or 85 ppm arsenic from day 8 to 18 of gestation. At the end of the arsenic exposure period, male fetal livers were removed and RNA isolated for microarray analysis using 22K oligo chips. Arsenic exposure in utero produced significant (p<0.001) alterations in expression of 187 genes, with approximately 25% of aberrantly expressed genes related to either estrogen signaling or steroid metabolism. Real-time RT-PCR on selected genes confirmed these changes. Various genes controlled by estrogen, including X-inactive-specific transcript, anterior gradient-2, trefoil factor-1, CRP-ductin, ghrelin, and small proline-rich protein-2A, were dramatically over-expressed. Estrogen-regulated genes including cytokeratin 1-19 and Cyp2a4 were over-expressed, although Cyp3a25 was suppressed. Several genes involved with steroid metabolism also showed remarkable expression changes, including increased expression of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-7 (HSD17beta7; involved in estradiol production) and decreased expression of HSD17beta5 (involved in testosterone production). The expression of key genes important in methionine metabolism, such as methionine adenosyltransferase-1a, betaine-homocysteine methyltransferase and thioether S-methyltransferase, were suppressed. Thus, exposure of mouse fetus to inorganic arsenic during a critical period in development significantly alters the expression of various genes encoding estrogen signaling and steroid or methionine metabolism. These alterations could disrupt genetic programming at the very early life stage, which could impact tumor formation much later in adulthood.
Steroid modulation of GABAA receptor-mediated transmission in the hypothalamus: effects on reproductive function.	The hypothalamus, the seat of neuroendocrine control, is exquisitely sensitive to gonadal steroids. For decades it has been known that androgens, estrogens and progestins, acting through nuclear hormone receptors, elicit both organizational and activational effects in the hypothalamus and basal forebrain that are essential for reproductive function. While changes in gene expression mediated by these classical hormone pathways are paramount in governing both sexual differentiation and the neural control of reproduction, it is also clear that steroids impart critical control of neuroendocrine functions through non-genomic mechanisms. Specifically, endogenous neurosteroid derivatives of deoxycorticosterone, progesterone and testosterone, as well and synthetic anabolic androgenic steroids that are self-administered as drugs of abuse, elicit acute effects via allosteric modulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors. GABAergic transmission within the hypothalamus and basal forebrain is a key regulator of pubertal onset, the expression of sexual behaviors, pregnancy and parturition. Summarized here are the known actions of steroid modulators on GABAergic transmission within the hypothalamus/basal forebrain, with a focus on the medial preoptic area and the supraoptic/paraventricular nuclei that are known to be central players in the control of reproduction.
SNPs associated with prostate cancer risk and prognosis.	Studies of the genetic influences on prostate cancer have indicated that there are familial genes that account for only a small fraction of the genetic components of prostate cancer. Many investigators have investigated the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms in candidate genes with an increased risk in prostate cancer. The types of candidates examined include genes in steroid metabolism, oxidative stress, and DNA repair as well as common variants of genes found by family studies. These analyses have identified some SNPs that are associated with prostate cancer risk. A complete genetic snapshot of prosatate cancer risk will only be obtained when all the genetic risk factors are identified and combined with other known markers of risk.
Uptake, distribution and binding of vertebrate and invertebrate steroid hormones and time-dependence of ponasterone A binding in Calliphora vicina. Comparisons among cholesterol, corticosterone, cortisol, dexamethasone, 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, ecdysone, estradiol-17 beta, ponasterone A, progesterone, and testosterone.	The presence of specific binding sites for radiolabelled vertebrate-type and arthropod-type steroid hormones was investigated in several organs including salivary gland, and central nervous system of third instar Calliphora vicina larvae by thaw-mount autoradiography. Ponasterone A, a 20-hydroxyecdysone agonist and 20-hydroxyecdysone are the only steroids which bind to nuclear high affinity binding sites. These binding sites are DNA associated while nucleoli show no tracer binding. Ecdysone, an endogenous 20-hydroxyecdysone precursor, is taken up by target cells but no significant nuclear binding occurs. 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 concentrates in cytoplasm only and its uptake is highest compared to all other steroids. Progesterone and testosterone show weak accumulation in the cytoplasm, while for cholesterol, corticosterone, cortisol, dexamethasone, dihydrotestosterone and estradiol-17 beta, no noticeable uptake occurs. For ponasterone A, a clear time dependence of uptake and intracellular distribution is visible, suggesting the existence and involvement of specific ecdysteroid uptake and transport mechanisms. These results suggest the presence of binding sites for various mammalian steroids in insects. Whether vertebrate steroid hormones or metabolites of them play a role in insects or whether the uptake and binding is based on chemical similarities alone without biological significance remains to be further investigated.
Dose-dependent hypocholesterolemic actions of dietary apple polyphenol in rats fed cholesterol.	The dose-dependent hypocholesterolemic and antiatherogenic effects of dietary apple polyphenol (AP) from unripe apple, which contains approximately 85% catechin oligomers (procyanidins), were examined in male Sprague-Dawley rats (4 wk of age) given a purified diet containing 0.5% cholesterol. Dietary AP at 0.5 and 1.0% levels significantly decreased the liver cholesterol level compared with that in the control (AP-free diet-fed) group. Dietary AP also significantly lowered the serum cholesterol level compared with that in the control group. However, the HDL cholesterol level was significantly higher in the 1.0% AP-fed group than in the control group. Accordingly, the ratio of HDL-cholesterol/total cholesterol was significantly higher in the 0.5% AP-fed group and 1.0% AP-fed group than in the control group. Moreover, the atherogenic indices in the 0.5 and 1.0% AP-fed groups were significantly lower than those in the control group. The activity of hepatic cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase tended to be increased by dietary AP in a dose-dependent manner. In accord with this observation, dietary AP increased the excretion of acidic steroids in feces. Dietary AP also significantly promoted the fecal excretion of neutral steroids in a dose-dependent manner. These observations suggest that dietary AP at a 0.5 or 1.0% level exerts hypocholesterolemic and antiatherogenic effects through the promotion of cholesterol catabolism and inhibition of intestinal absorption of cholesterol.
Roles of Dickkopf-1 and its receptor Kremen1 during embryonic implantation in mice.	To determine the roles of Dickkopf-1 (Dkk1) in mouse embryo implantation.
Suppressive effects of dehydroepiandrosterone and 3 beta-methyl-androst-5-en-17-one on attack towards lactating female intruders by castrated male mice. II. Brain neurosteroids.	Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHA) and 3 beta-methyl-androst-5-en-17-one (CH3-DHA) suppress attacks by castrated male mice towards lactating female intruders (Haug et al. Physiol. Behav. 46:955, 1989). Their effects on the concentrations of DHA, pregnenolone (delta 5P), and their sulfate ester (S) have been investigated in the brain of control and treated mice. A more than 2 fold, significant, decrease of delta 5P-S was the only change common to both steroids. DHA and CH3-DHA effects might be related to the antagonistic action of delta 5P-S on GABAA receptors.
Steroid biomarkers and genetic studies reveal inactivating mutations in hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in patients with cortisone reductase deficiency.	Cortisone reductase deficiency (CRD) is characterized by a failure to regenerate cortisol from cortisone via 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1), resulting in increased cortisol clearance, activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-axis (HPA) and ACTH-mediated adrenal androgen excess. 11beta-HSD1 oxoreductase activity requires the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-generating enzyme hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (H6PDH) within the endoplasmic reticulum. CRD manifests with hyperandrogenism resulting in hirsutism, oligo-amenorrhea, and infertility in females and premature pseudopuberty in males. Recent association studies have failed to corroborate findings that polymorphisms in the genes encoding H6PDH (R453Q) and 11beta-HSD1 (Intron 3 inserted adenine) interact to cause CRD.
Belimumab, an anti-BLyS human monoclonal antibody for potential treatment of inflammatory autoimmune diseases.	B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) is a factor determining the survival of B cells, and elevated levels in serum or locally have been observed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients. Belimumab (LymphoStat-B), a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits BlyS, was developed for the treatment of these diseases.
The use of metabolising systems for in vitro testing of endocrine disruptors.	Legislation and prospective legislative proposals in for instance the USA, Europe, and Japan require, or may require that chemicals are tested for their ability to disrupt the hormonal systems of mammals. Chemicals found to test positive are considered to be endocrine active substances (EAS) and may be putative endocrine disruptors (EDs). To date, there is still little or no experience with incorporating metabolic and toxicokinetic aspects into in vitro tests for EAS. This is a situation in sharp contrast to genotoxicity testing, where in vitro tests are routinely conducted with and without metabolic capacity. Originally prepared for the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), this detailed review paper reviews why in vitro assays for EAS should incorporate mammalian systems of metabolism and metabolic enzyme systems, and indicates how this could be done. The background to ED testing, the available test methods, and the role of mammalian metabolism in the activation and the inactivation of both endogenous and exogenous steroids are described. The available types of systems are compared, and the potential problems in incorporating systems in in vitro tests for EAS, and how these might be overcome, are discussed. Lastly, some recommendations for future activities are made.
Regulation of growth of LNCaP human prostate tumor cells by growth factors and steroid hormones.	The mitogenic activity of several growth factors on androgen responsive LNCaP human prostate tumor cells was studied. A two-fold stimulation of cell proliferation was observed after a culture period of 6 days in 1 ng EGF/ml, 10 ng TGF-alpha/ml or 20 ng basic FGF/ml. TGF-beta (0.02 ng/ml), which did not affect cell proliferation when added alone to the culture medium, inhibited the EGF- and TGF-alpha-induced growth. The synthetic androgen R1881 (0.1 nM) stimulated cell proliferation three-fold and increased the number of EGF receptors from 11500 to 28500 sites/cell. One of the mechanisms involved in androgen action on these cells is therefore an increased EGF receptor expression and increased sensitivity to EGF. TGF-beta did not directly affect androgen-responsive growth but inhibited the synergistic effect of EGF. A considerable expression of TGF alpha (precursors) could be demonstrated on the cells by immunohistochemical staining. However the staining intensity was not affected by androgens. These results make it less likely that androgen-responsive growth is mediated by regulation of secretion of an EGF- or TGF alpha-like activity, which in turn acts in an autocrine manner to stimulate growth. Estrogens, progestagens and antiandrogens do not inhibit androgen responsive growth of LNCaP cells but have striking growth stimulatory effects, increase EGF receptor level and increase acid phosphatase secretion. LNCaP cells contain a modified androgen receptor system with respect to both steroid specificity and antiandrogen sensitivity. It has recently been shown that the stimulatory effects are due to a mutated amino acid in the steroid binding domain of the androgen receptor.
Effects of adrenal steroids and their reduced metabolites on hippocampal long-term potentiation.	We studied the effects of steroid hormones on the hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a putative mechanism of neuronal plasticity and memory storage in the CNS. In vivo experiments were performed in rats under chloral hydrate anesthesia (0.4 mg/kg i.p.). All animals were adrenalectomized 48 h before recording. LTP was induced after priming tetanic stimulation at the perforant pathway (PP) and single pulse field potentials were obtained from the dentate gyrus (DG). The excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP) slope and population spike (PS) amplitude were analyzed before and after the i.v. injection of the steroids and after the induction of LTP, and followed up to 1 h. Results obtained with the hormones were compared with matched control animals injected with vehicle alone, Nutralipid 10%. Previous results from our laboratory showed that deoxycorticosterone (DOC) decreased the magnitude of the EPSP at all times after priming stimulation and the PS decreased during the first 30 min of the LTP. Corticosterone decreased the EPSP in the first 15 min and the PS during the first 30 min after priming stimuli. In these experiments the mineralocorticoids aldosterone and 18-OH-DOC elicited a decrease of the EPSP at all times post-train; and no significant difference against vehicle was observed in the PS. Post-injection values were not changed except for 18-OH-DOC at a dose of 1 mg, where a decrease of both the EPSP (P less than 0.01) and the PS (P less than 0.02) was observed against vehicle. ATH-progesterone at 0.1 mg/rat also decreased the EPSP values significantly after priming stimulation and no significant changes against vehicle were observed in the PS. These results show that adrenal steroids can modulate hippocampal LTP, that they can act at different neuronal loci and with different time courses in the development of the phenomena.
A subset of dysregulated metabolic and survival genes is associated with severity of hepatic steatosis in obese Zucker rats.	We aimed to characterize the primary abnormalities associated with fat accumulation and vulnerability to hepatocellular injury of obesity-related fatty liver. We performed functional analyses and comparative transcriptomics of isolated primary hepatocytes from livers of obese insulin-resistant Zucker rats (comprising mild to severe hepatic steatosis) and age-matched lean littermates, searching for novel genes linked to chronic hepatic steatosis. Of the tested genome, 1.6% was identified as steatosis linked. Overexpressed genes were mainly dedicated to primary metabolism (100%), signaling, and defense/acute phase (approximately 70%); detoxification, steroid, and sulfur metabolism (approximately 65%) as well as cell growth/proliferation and protein synthesis/transformation (approximately 70%) genes were downregulated. The overexpression of key genes involved in de novo lipogenesis, fatty acid and glycerolipid import and synthesis, as well as acetyl-CoA and cofactor provision was paralleled by enhanced hepatic lipogenesis and production of large triacylglycerol-rich VLDL. Greatest changes in gene expression were seen in those encoding the lipogenic malic enzyme (up to 7-fold increased) and cell-to-cell interacting cadherin 17 (up to 8-fold decreased). Among validated genes, fatty acid synthase, stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1, fatty acid translocase/Cd36, malic enzyme, cholesterol-7 alpha hydroxylase, cadherin 17, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha significantly correlated with severity of hepatic steatosis. In conclusion, dysregulated expression of metabolic and survival genes accompany hepatic steatosis in obese insulin-resistant rats and may render steatotic hepatocytes more vulnerable to cell injury in progressive nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
Genetic analysis of breast cancer in the cancer and steroid hormone study.	The familial risk of breast cancer is investigated in a large population-based, case-control study conducted by the Centers for Disease Control. The data set is based on 4,730 histologically confirmed breast cancer cases aged 20 to 54 years and on 4,688 controls who were frequency matched to cases on the basis of both geographic region and 5-year categories of age, and it includes family histories, obtained through interviews of cases and controls, of breast cancer in mothers and sisters. Segregation analysis and goodness-of-fit tests of genetic models provide evidence for the existence of a rare autosomal dominant allele (q = .0033) leading to increased susceptibility to breast cancer. The effect of genotype on the risk of breast cancer is shown to be a function of a woman's age. Although, compared with noncarriers, carriers of the allele appear to be at greater risk at all ages, the ratio of age-specific risks is greatest at young ages and declines steadily thereafter. The proportion of cases predicted to carry the allele is highest (36%) among cases aged 20-29 years. This proportion gradually decreases to 1% among cases aged 80 years or older. The cumulative lifetime risk of breast cancer for women who carry the susceptibility allele is predicted to be high, approximately 92%, while the cumulative lifetime risk for noncarriers is estimated to be approximately 10%.
Characterization and purification of a functional rat glucocorticoid receptor overexpressed in a baculovirus system.	The structure-function relationship of the oligomeric unactivated glucocorticoid receptor is not fully understood. An essential step in the process of understanding such a relationship involves the production of large quantities of the receptor. Using a baculovirus expression system we have been able to overproduce a recombinant rat glucocorticoid receptor (rGR). A cDNA coding for the entire rGR was introduced into the genome of the wild type baculovirus, Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus, by an in vivo recombination event. Based on specific steroid binding, insect cells infected with the recombinant baculovirus expressed 1-3 x 10(6) receptor molecules/cell which is 15-45 times more than that expressed normally in a hepatocyte. The recombinant rGR expressed in insect cells is indistinguishable from the bona fide rGR with respect to immunogenic reactivity, cytoplasmic localization, sedimentation, chromatographic and electrophoretic mobility, and hormone and DNA binding. Furthermore, the recombinant rGR is expressed as a functional protein as demonstrated by its ability to specifically bind a glucocorticoid agonist, to translocate from the cytoplasm to the nucleus upon hormone-binding, and to act as a transcriptional enhancer. Pulse labeling of recombinant baculovirus-infected insect cells with 32Pi and isolation of the labeled products by immunoprecipitation demonstrated that the recombinant rGR is a phosphoprotein. Thus, the recombinant rGR expressed in insect cells is biologically active and is suitable for structural and functional analysis. A simple three-step purification procedure of the unactivated recombinant rGR is described.
Ovarian hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids compared with prostanoids and steroids during ovulation in rats.	Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid methyl esters (HETEs) are lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid that are generated along with prostaglandins (PGs) during acute inflammatory reactions. Whereas it is well known that ovarian PG levels increase during the ovulatory process, little is known about ovarian HETEs. This report compares the ovarian changes in 5-, 12-, and 15-HETE with ovarian PGE and PGF, along with progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, 4-androstene-3,17-dione, testosterone, and 17 beta-estradiol. Ovulation was induced in immature Wistar rats by sequential treatment with pregnant mare's serum gonadotropin and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). Follicles began rupturing 10 h after hCG treatment. The greatest correlation was among 12-HETE, 15-HETE, and progesterone, which increased to peak levels at 10 h after hCG. In contrast, the ovarian levels of 5-HETE, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, testosterone, and 17 beta-estradiol all declined sharply beginning 4 h after hCG. 2 alpha,4 alpha,7-4,5-Epoxy-17-hydroxy-4,17-dimethyl-3-oxo-androstane-2- carbonitrile (epostane), a potent inhibitor of steroid synthesis and ovulation, sharply reduced the synthesis of all five steroids within 30 min after its injection at 3 h after hCG. Among the five eicosanoids, epostane mainly inhibited 15-HETE. The results suggest that 15-HETE, along with progesterone, may have an important role in ovulation.
Comparison of inhibitory actions of indomethacin and epostane on ovulation in rats.	Indomethacin, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase that generates prostaglandins (PGs) from arachidonic acid, and 2 alpha,4 alpha,7-4,5-epoxy-17-hydroxy-4,17-dimethyl-3-oxoandrostane- 2-carbonitrile (epostane), an inhibitor of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase that generates progesterone from pregnenolone, are both potent inhibitors of ovulation. This report compares the dose-dependent effects of these two inhibitors on ovarian levels of 5-, 12-, and 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid methyl ester (HETEs), prostaglandin E2 (PGE), prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF), progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, 17 beta-estradiol, 4-androstene-3,17-dione, and testosterone during ovulation in 25-day-old immature Wistar rats. The ovulatory process was initiated by 10 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG). Indomethacin was given at 3 h after hCG in doses ranging from 0.0316 to 10.0 mg/rat. A dose of 0.1 mg/rat was the lowest dose to significantly reduce the ovulation rate from the control level of 70.5 +/- 5.8 ova/rat. This dose also reduced 15-HETE, but not 5-HETE, 12-HETE, or the steroids. PGE and PGF were strongly inhibited by an even lower dose of indomethacin (0.0316 mg/rat), but this dose did not affect the ovulation rate. Epostane was given at 3 h after hCG in doses ranging from 0.1 to 5.0 mg/rat. A dose of 1.0 mg/rat was the lowest dose to significantly inhibit ovulation. This dose also reduced the ovarian levels of 15-HETE and progesterone but not 5-HETE, 12-HETE, PGE, PGF, or the other steroids. The results indicate that the ovulation rate is most closely correlated to ovarian 15-HETE levels.
Brassinosteroids control AtEXPA5 gene expression in Arabidopsis thaliana.	To elucidate the spatial and temporal roles of EXPANSIN A5 (AtEXPA5) in growth and development of Arabidopsis thaliana, phenotypic alterations in loss-of-function mutants were observed. Seedlings of the null mutant, expA5-1, had shorter roots and hypocotyls than those of wild-type plants under both light and dark conditions. Compared to wild-type plants, the mutants had smaller rosette leaves. AtEXPA5 was dominantly expressed in aerial parts of A. thaliana, especially in the inflorescence stems and flowers. Expression of AtEXPA5 was enhanced by exogenously applied brassinosteroids. AtEXPA5 expression was reduced in a brassinosteroid-deficient mutant (det2) and a signaling mutant (bri1-301), while it was increased in bzr1-1D, a dominant mutant of a brassinosteroid transcription factor. A double mutant, bzr1-1DXexpA5-1, showed reduced growth compared to the bzr1-1D mutant. In addition, the brassinazole resistance of bzr1-1D was impaired in the double mutant. These findings indicate that AtEXPA5 is a growth-regulating gene whose expression is controlled by brassinosteroid signaling downstream of BZR1 in A. thaliana.
RSK in tumorigenesis: connections to steroid signaling.	The Ser/Thr kinase family, RSK, has been implicated in numerous types of hormone-dependent and -independent cancers. However, there has been little consideration of RSKs as downstream mediators of steroid hormone non-genomic effects or of their ability to facilitate steroid receptor-mediated gene expression. Steroid hormone signaling can directly stimulate the MEK/ERK/RSK pathway to regulate cellular proliferation and survival in transformed cells. To date, multiple mechanisms of RSK and steroid hormone receptor-mediated proliferation/survival have been elucidated. For example, RSK enhances proliferation of breast and prostate cancer cells via its ability to control the levels of the estrogen receptor co-activator, cyclin D1. While in lung and other tumors RSK may control apoptosis via estrogen-mediated regulation of mitochondrial integrity. Thus the RSKs could be important anti-cancer therapeutic targets in many different transformed tissues. The recent discovery of RSK-specific inhibitors will advance our current understanding of RSK in transformation and drive these studies into animal and clinical models. In this review we explore the mechanisms associated with RSK in tumorigenesis and their relationship to steroid hormone signaling.
Heat shock protein 90 as a critical factor in maintaining glucocorticosteroid receptor in a nonfunctional state.	Previous work demonstrated that the ligand binding domain (LBD) was required to determine the formation of the cytosolic, untransformed, inactive, 8 S, heterooligomeric form of the human glucocorticosteroid receptor (hGR) which includes the 90-kDa heat shock protein (hsp90) (Pratt, W.B., Jolly, D.J., Pratt, D.V., Hollenberg, S.M., Gigure, V., Cadepond, F.M., Schweizer-Groyer, G., Catelli, M.G., Evans, R.M., and Baulieu, E.E. (1988) J. Biol. Chem. 263, 267-273). Truncations of hGR deleting all or almost all of the LBD give GR derivatives in the non-hsp90-interacting 4 S form able to stimulate transcription in a hormone-independent manner. To identify the LBD subregion(s) involved in 8 S formation, we analyzed the sedimentation behavior of hGR mutants with various LBD internal deletions and/or truncations transiently expressed in cells that contain hsp90 but very low levels of endogenous GR, and we correlated the results with their transcriptional activity. LBD has been divided into three subregions: two of them, LBD1 (between amino acids 551 and 626) and LBD2 (between amino acids 627 and 696), include amino acid sequences highly conserved in the steroid receptor superfamily, and LBD3 consists of the carboxyl-terminal part of the molecule (amino acids 697-777). Each of these subregions can be deleted without impeding 8 S heterooligomer formation, and the corresponding receptors do not have transcriptional activity in the absence as well as in the presence of hormone. When linked to hGR mutants truncated after amino acids 532 or 550, each subregion does separately promote 8 S heterooligomeric complex formation and repress the intrinsic constitutive transcriptional activity of the truncated receptors. These 8 S complexes contain hsp90. In a control experiment, the linkage of 1,017 amino acids of beta-galactosidase to the carboxyl-terminal of 1-532 hGR gave a hybrid receptor still constitutively transcriptionally active which did not bind hsp90. These results provide evidence that there is a strong correlation between the association with hsp90 and the loss of GR functional properties and that hsp90 may play a critical role in maintaining the receptor in a nonfunctional state.
Synergism between steroid response and promoter elements during cell-free transcription.	We have analyzed quantitatively the influence of distal promoter elements on steroid-responsive gene expression in vitro. Functional synergism between enhancer and distal promoter elements was examined using two model promoters, one containing a natural promoter (mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat) and one constructed artificially. Human glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expressed in baculovirus induces transcription from a mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat-containing DNA template. Transcription is diminished by oligonucleotides containing a nuclear factor 1 (NF-1)-binding site or a glucocorticoid/progesterone response element. Quantitative analysis indicates that NF-1 and GR act synergistically during transcriptional activation. In contrast, efficient activation by GR or purified chick progesterone receptor of a glucocorticoid/progesterone response element-linked ovalbumin promoter does not require interaction with the chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter (COUP) element in the distal promoter. Lack of synergism is not related to enhancer strength, since the glucocorticoid/progesterone response elements can be moved further from the promoter or reduced to a single copy response element without increasing the dependence upon COUP. Strong synergism is restored following substitution of an NF-1 distal promoter element for the COUP element in this construct. Our results suggest that synergism between steroid response and distal promoter elements is dependent upon the identity of the promoter element rather than upon the inherent strength of the enhancer element.
Arabidopsis IWS1 interacts with transcription factor BES1 and is involved in plant steroid hormone brassinosteroid regulated gene expression.	Plant steroid hormones, brassinosteroids (BRs), regulate essential growth and developmental processes. BRs signal through membrane-localized receptor BRI1 and several other signaling components to regulate the BES1 and BZR1 family transcription factors, which in turn control the expression of hundreds of target genes. However, knowledge about the transcriptional mechanisms by which BES1/BZR1 regulate gene expression is limited. By a forward genetic approach, we have discovered that Arabidopsis thaliana Interact-With-Spt6 (AtIWS1), an evolutionarily conserved protein implicated in RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) postrecruitment and transcriptional elongation processes, is required for BR-induced gene expression. Loss-of-function mutations in AtIWS1 lead to overall dwarfism in Arabidopsis, reduced BR response, genome-wide decrease in BR-induced gene expression, and hypersensitivity to a transcription elongation inhibitor. Moreover, AtIWS1 interacts with BES1 both in vitro and in vivo. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that the presence of AtIWS1 is enriched in transcribed as well as promoter regions of the target genes under BR-induced conditions. Our results suggest that AtIWS1 is recruited to target genes by BES1 to promote gene expression during transcription elongation process. Recent genomic studies have indicated that a large number of genes could be regulated at steps after RNAPII recruitment; however, the mechanisms for such regulation have not been well established. The study therefore not only establishes an important role for AtIWS1 in plant steroid-induced gene expression but also suggests an exciting possibility that IWS1 protein can function as a target for pathway-specific activators, thereby providing a unique mechanism for the control of gene expression.
High level expression of functional full length and truncated glucocorticoid receptor in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Demonstration of ligand-induced down-regulation of expressed receptor mRNA and protein.	Full length human glucocorticoid receptor and truncated receptor derivatives lacking the major amino-terminal trans-activating domain were expressed in stably transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. The receptors were co-expressed together with human metallothionein IIa, and the expression levels were amplified in the presence of increasing concentrations of metal. In amplified cells, both synthesized receptor forms showed the expected molecular weights, as assayed by affinity labeling and immunoblotting. They were expressed at concentrations of about 350,000-520,000 molecules/cell which corresponds to a 10-fold increase in receptor levels as compared to rat liver cells. The hormone (agonist or antagonist) binding properties of the expressed proteins were very similar to those characteristic of authentic glucocorticoid receptors in tissues or cultured cells. Moreover, the expressed proteins specifically recognized a glucocorticoid-response element sequence motif in in vitro protein-DNA binding experiments. The activation of a glucocorticoid-responsive reporter gene by the expressed full length receptor was dramatic (about 75-fold) and strictly ligand-dependent. In contrast, the expressed amino-terminal deletion mutant exhibited considerably weaker functional activity but showed normal hormone-binding properties. Upon exposure to dexamethasone in vivo, the expressed receptor mRNAs and proteins were down-regulated about 2- to 6-fold, indicating that regulatory signals important for autoregulation may be contained within structures corresponding to the ligand and DNA-binding domains. Transcription from the expression vector was not negatively regulated from the hormone, strongly arguing that receptor down-regulation was due to a post-transcriptional mechanism. In conclusion, this expression system should be a useful tool for further structural and functional studies of the receptor, including the biochemistry of its activation from a cryptic to a functional species, and its ligand-dependent autoregulation.
Lipid metabolism in anaerobic ecosystems.	In anaerobic ecosystems, acyl lipids are initially hydrolyzed by microbial lipases with the release of free fatty acids. Glycerol, galactose, choline, and other non-fatty acid components released during hydrolysis are fermented to volatile fatty acids by the fermentative bacteria. Fatty acids are not degraded further in the rumen or other parts of the digestive tract but are subjected to extensive biohydrogenation especially in the rumen. However, in environments such as sediments and waste digestors, which have long retention times, both long and short chain fatty acids are beta-oxidized to acetate by a special group of bacteria, the H2-producing syntrophs. Long chain fatty acids can also be degraded by alpha-oxidation. Biotransformation of bile acids, cholesterol, and steroids by intestinal microorganisms is extensive. Many rumen bacteria have specific growth requirements for fatty acids such as n-valeric, iso-valeric, 2-methylbutyric, and iso-butyric acids. Some species have requirements for C13 to C18 straight-chain saturated or monoenoic fatty acids for growth.
Concentrations of inhibins and steroids in follicular fluid during development of dominant follicules in heifers.	The objective of this study was to examine changes in intrafollicular concentrations of inhibins and steroids in heifers during growth of dominant follicles. To obtain dominant ovulatory follicles, heifers received injections of prostaglandin (PG) on Day 9 of an estrous cycle and were ovariectomized (OVX) 0, 24, 48, 60, or 72 h after injection. To obtain dominant nonovulatory follicles, heifers were OVX on Day 3, 6, or 9 of a cycle. Follicular size was determined, follicular fluid (FF) was collected from follicles 6 mm or greater in diameter, and RIA was used to quantify concentrations of inhibins, estradiol, and progesterone in FF. During growth of dominant ovulatory follicles, concentrations of estradiol and progesterone increased, whereas inhibins decreased when compared with dominant follicles on Day 9 before PG treatment. Concentrations of inhibins were inversely correlated with size and concentrations of estradiol in dominant ovulatory follicles. As dominant nonovulatory follicles increased in size, concentrations of inhibins, estradiol, and progesterone increased. Concentrations of inhibins were positively correlated with size and with progesterone concentrations in dominant nonovulatory follicles. Concentrations of inhibins were greater in dominant nonovulatory follicles than in atretic follicles. In summary, intrafollicular concentrations of inhibins decreased during growth of dominant ovulatory follicles, but increased during growth of dominant nonovulatory follicles. Because of the well-known suppressive action of inhibins on FSH secretion, we hypothesize that inhibins are involved in growth and atresia of dominant follicles during the bovine estrous cycle.
Increased steroid hormone secretion in mouse Leydig tumor cells after induction of cholesterol translocation by sphingomyelin degradation.	The effects of sphingomyelin degradation on [3H]cholesterol transfer from the cell surface to mitochondria were examined in mouse Leydig tumor cells. These cells were used since they utilize cholesterol for steroid hormone synthesis in the mitochondria, and also possess acyl-CoA: cholesterol acyl transferase (ACAT) activity in the endoplasmic reticulum. Exposure of glutaraldehyde-fixed mouse Leydig tumor cells to sphingomyelinase (50 mU/ml, 60 min) resulted in the degradation of about 50% of cell sphingomyelin, suggesting that only half of the sphingomyelin mass in these cells was located in the exoleaflet of the plasma membrane. The partial sphingomyelin degradation resulted in the translocation of cellular unesterified [3H]cholesterol from plasma membranes (cholesterol oxidase-susceptible) to intracellular compartments (oxidase-resistant). The fraction of [3H]cholesterol that was translocated, i.e., between 20 and 50%, varied with different [3H]cholesterol-labeling methods. Cholesterol translocation induced by sphingomyelin degradation subsequently led to the stimulation of ACAT activity, suggesting that a fraction of cell surface cholesterol was transported to the endoplasmic reticulum. The sphingomyelinase-induced [3H]cholesterol flow from the cell surface to the cell interior was also in part directed to the mitochondria, as evidenced by the increased secretion of [3H]steroid hormones. In addition, the cyclic AMP-induced activation of steroidogenesis was further enhanced by the sphingomyelinase-induced cholesterol translocation. Based on the current results, it seems evident that a significant portion of the translocated [3H]cholesterol made its way from plasma membranes into the mitochondria for steroidogenesis.
Nitric oxide mediates brassinosteroid-induced ABA biosynthesis involved in oxidative stress tolerance in maize leaves.	The role of ABA in brassinosteroid (BR)-induced stress tolerance and the relationship between BR, nitric oxide (NO) and ABA under water stress induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) were investigated in leaves of maize (Zea mays) plants. Water stress led to oxidative damage. Pre-treatment with the BR biosynthetic inhibitor brassinazole (Brz) aggravated the oxidative damage induced by PEG treatment, which was alleviated by the application of BR or ABA. Pre-treatment with the ABA biosynthetic inhibitor fluridone also aggravated the oxidative damage induced by PEG treatment; however, this was barely alleviated by the application of BR. BR treatment increased the content of ABA and up-regulated the expression of the ABA biosynthetic gene vp14 in maize leaves, which was blocked by pre-treatments with the NO scavenger cPTIO (2,4-carboxyphenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide) and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor l-NAME (N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester. Moreover, BR treatment induced increases in the generation of NO in mesophyll cells of maize leaves, and treatment with the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) up-regulated the content of ABA and the expression of vp14 in maize leaves. Our results suggest that BR-induced NO production and NO-activated ABA biosynthesis are important mechanisms for BR-enhanced water stress tolerance in leaves of maize plants.
A brassinosteroid transcriptional network revealed by genome-wide identification of BESI target genes in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are important regulators for plant growth and development. BRs signal to control the activities of the BES1 and BZR1 family transcription factors. The transcriptional network through which BES1 and BZR regulate large number of target genes is mostly unknown. By combining chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with Arabidopsis tiling arrays (ChIP-chip) and gene expression studies, we have identified 1609 putative BES1 target genes, 404 of which are regulated by BRs and/or in gain-of-function bes1-D mutant. BES1 targets contribute to BR responses and interactions with other hormonal or light signaling pathways. Computational modeling of gene expression data using Algorithm for the Reconstruction of Accurate Cellular Networks (ARACNe) reveals that BES1-targeted transcriptional factors form a gene regulatory network (GRN). Mutants of many genes in the network displayed defects in BR responses. Moreover, we found that BES1 functions to inhibit chloroplast development by repressing the expression of GLK1 and GLK2 transcription factors, confirming a hypothesis generated from the GRN. Our results thus provide a global view of BR regulated gene expression and a GRN that guides future studies in understanding BR-regulated plant growth.
Evolution of ligand specificity in vertebrate corticosteroid receptors.	Corticosteroid receptors include mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid (GR) receptors. Teleost fishes have a single MR and duplicate GRs that show variable sensitivities to mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids. How these receptors compare functionally to tetrapod MR and GR, and the evolutionary significance of maintaining two GRs, remains unclear.
Diagnosis of diseases of steroid hormone production, metabolism and action.	Biochemical tests have been the basis for investigations of disorders affecting steroid hormones. In recent years it has been possible however to study the genes that determine functional enzymes, cofactors, receptors, transcription factors and signaling systems that are involved in the process. Analyses of mutations are available as a diagnostic service for only a few of these genes although research laboratories may be able to provide a service. Both biochemical and genetic research have brought to light new disorders. Some genes for transcription factors involved in the development of the endocrine organs have also been identified and patients with defects in these processes have been found. This paper will review general aspects of adrenal disorders with emphasis on clinical and laboratory findings. As with all endocrine investigations there are few single measurements that provide a definitive answer to a diagnosis. Timing of samples in relation to age, gender and time of day needs to be considered.
Emotional memory in early steroid abnormalities: an FMRI study of adolescents with congenital adrenal hyperplasia.	Hormonal imbalances during development may have long-lasting effects. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we compared 14 youths with Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH), a genetic disorder of hormonal dysfunction, with 22 healthy controls on memory encoding of emotional faces. Patients remembered fewer faces than controls, particularly fearful faces. FMRI data to successfully encoded fearful faces revealed that males with CAH showed significant activations in amygdala, hippocampus, and anterior cingulate relative to unaffected males, while females with CAH demonstrated deactivations relative to unaffected females in these regions. Findings indicate that steroid abnormalities during development can have important effects on neural correlates of emotional memory.
The endometrial epigenome and its response to steroid hormones.	The human endometrium undergoes cyclic morphological and functional changes during the menstrual cycle. These changes are driven mainly by steroid hormones and orchestrated by a myriad of genes - many of which have been identified recently as being epigenetically regulated. Epigenetic modifications, including DNA methylation and histone acetylations, are shown recently to be involved in functional changes in endometrium and endometrial diseases. Since epigenetics itself is a rapidly evolving field, this review starts with an overview of epigenetics and its intrinsic connections with endometrial response to steroid hormones, highlighting its various levels of complexities. This is followed by a review of published and unpublished work on "writers", "erasers", and other players of endometrial epigenome. In the end, areas in need for future research in this area will be exposed.
Valuable chemicals by the enzymatic modification of molecules of natural origin: terpenoids, steroids, phenolics and related compounds.	A renewed interest for using natural organic molecules for the production of valuable chemicals is observed in current organic processes. Natural compounds provide the access to natural grade chemicals when submitted to physical treatments or biotechnological processes. Dealing with structurally complex molecules, they can provide complex core structures for hemisynthesis purposes, and in many instances they offer the advantage of providing sustainable processes when using renewable resources. These assets could be synergistic with the assets of biocatalytic processes, to end-up with efficient and sustainable processes in the organic synthesis of valuable products. In this review, we have gathered a selection of examples on the use of enzymes for the modification of molecules of natural origin being either purified compounds (terpenoids, steroids, phenolics) or mixtures (essential oils, natural extracts) to access fine chemicals or organic polymers.
Biomarkers of endocrine disruption: cluster analysis of effects of plasticisers on Phase 1 and Phase 2 metabolism of steroids.	Although some endocrine disruptors (EDs) act at steroid receptors, it is now apparent that compounds may have ED potential if they alter steroid synthesis or metabolism, particularly if they affect Phase 1 or Phase 2 pathways. In the ENDOMET project (EU-funded 5th Framework programme), 23 different assays were used on a wide range of EDs. Cluster analysis of the matrix results enabled identification of four integrated test systems that can be used to pinpoint compounds that are able to alter steroid metabolism or function. Critical pathways were shown to include oestrogen synthesis and sulphonation, synthesis of sulphate/PAPS and thyroid hormone regulation so that the activity profiles of some Phase 1 and Phase 2 reactions can be used as biomarkers for detection of compounds with ED potential.
LC-MS/MS fast analysis of androgenic steroids in urine.	The liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method (LC-MS/MS) was developed and validated to detect androgenic steroids: trenbolone, nortestosterone, boldenone, methylboldenone, testosterone, methyltestosterone, 17-1-testosterone and their metabolites in bovine urine. Sample preparation before LC-MS/MS analysis involved an enzymatic hydrolysis with glucuronidase AS-HP, isolation of free hormones from urine on C(18) SPE column and purification of the extract using liquid-liquid extraction with n-pentane and SPE NH(2) column. For the chromatographic separation of steroids, the Poroshell 120-EC C18 column (1502.1 mm, 2.7 m) was used. Mass spectrometric measurement was achieved using the API 4000 triple quadrupole (QqQ) instrument with a TurboIon-Spray source operating in positive electrospray ionization mode. The procedure was validated according to the Decision 2002/657/EC. Recovery ranged from 76.5% to 118.9% for all examined compounds. The repeatability was below 20% and reproducibility did not exceed the 25%. The linearity was good for all analytes in the whole range of tested concentrations, as proved by the correlation coefficients greater than 0.99. The decision limit (CC) ranged from 0.10 to 0.17 g L(-1) for all analytes, whereas the detection capability (CC) ranged from 0.17 to 0.29 g L(-1). The application of an innovative Poroshell column allowed for very good chromatographic separation of steroids with a much shorter time of analysis.
Ablation of vimentin results in defective steroidogenesis.	In steroidogenic tissues, cholesterol must be transported to the inner mitochondrial membrane to be converted to pregnenolone as the first step of steroidogenesis. Whereas steroidogenic acute regulatory protein has been shown to be responsible for the transport of cholesterol from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane, the process of how cholesterol moves to mitochondria from the cytoplasm is not clearly defined. The involvement of the cytoskeleton has been suggested; however, no specific mechanism has been confirmed. In this paper, using genetic ablation of an intermediate filament protein in mice, we present data demonstrating a marked defect in adrenal and ovarian steroidogenesis in the absence of vimentin. Cosyntropin-stimulated corticosterone production is decreased 35 and 50% in male and female Vimentin null (Vim(-/-)) mice, respectively, whereas progesterone production is decreased 70% in female Vim(-/-) mice after pregnant mare's serum gonadotropin and human chorionic gonadotropin stimulation, but no abnormalities in human chorionic gonadotropin-stimulated testosterone production is observed in male Vim(-/-) mice. These defects in steroid production are also seen in isolated adrenal and granulosa cells in vitro. Further studies show a defect in the movement of cholesterol from the cytosol to mitochondria in Vim(-/-) cells. Because the mobilization of cholesterol from lipid droplets and its transport to mitochondria is a preferred pathway for the initiation of steroid production in the adrenal and ovary but not the testis and vimentin is a droplet-associated protein, our results suggest that vimentin is involved in the movement of cholesterol from its storage in lipid droplets to mitochondria for steroidogenesis.
Prenatal hyperandrogenization induces metabolic and endocrine alterations which depend on the levels of testosterone exposure.	Prenatal hyperandrogenism is able to induce polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in rats. The aim of the present study was to establish if the levels of prenatal testosterone may determine the extent of metabolic and endocrine alterations during the adult life. Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were prenatally injected with either 2 or 5 mg free testosterone (groups T2 and T5 respectively) from day 16 to day 19 day of gestation. Female offspring from T2 and T5 displayed different phenotype of PCOS during adult life. Offspring from T2 showed hyperandrogenism, ovarian cysts and ovulatory cycles whereas those from T5 displayed hyperandrogenism, ovarian cysts and anovulatory cycles. Both group showed increased circulating glucose levels after the intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test (IPGTT; an evaluation of insulin resistance). IPGTT was higher in T5 rats and directly correlated with body weight at prepubertal age. However, the decrease in the body weight at prepubertal age was compensated during adult life. Although both groups showed enhanced ovarian steroidogenesis, it appears that the molecular mechanisms involved were different. The higher dose of testosterone enhanced the expression of both the protein that regulates cholesterol availability (the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR)) and the protein expression of the transcriptional factor: peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma). Prenatal hyperandrogenization induced an anti-oxidant response that prevented a possible pro-oxidant status. The higher dose of testosterone induced a pro-inflammatory state in ovarian tissue mediated by increased levels of prostaglandin E (PG) and the protein expression of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2, the limiting enzyme of PGs synthesis). In summary, our data show that the levels of testosterone prenatally injected modulate the uterine environment and that this, in turn, would be responsible for the endocrine and metabolic abnormalities and the phenotype of PCOS during the adult life.
Identification of location and kinetically defined mechanism of cofactors and reporter genes in the cascade of steroid-regulated transactivation.	A currently obscure area of steroid hormone action is where the component factors, including receptor and reporter gene, act. The DNA binding of factors can be precisely defined, but the location and timing of factor binding and action are usually not equivalent. These questions are addressed for several factors (e.g. glucocorticoid receptor (GR), reporter, TIF2, NCoR, NELF-A, sSMRT, and STAMP) using our recently developed competition assay. This assay reveals both the kinetically defined mechanism of factor action and where the above factors act relative to both each other and the equilibrium equivalent to the rate-limiting step, which we call the concentration limiting step (CLS). The utility of this competition assay would be greatly increased if the position of the CLS is invariant and if the factor acting at the CLS is known. Here we report that the exogenous GREtkLUC reporter acts at the CLS as an accelerator for gene induction by GRs in U2OS cells. This mechanism of reporter function at the CLS persists with different reporters, factors, receptors, and cell types. We, therefore, propose that the reporter gene always acts at the CLS during gene induction and constitutes a landmark around which one can order the actions of all other factors. Current data suggest that how and where GR and the short form of SMRT act is also constant. These results validate a novel and rational methodology for identifying distally acting factors that would be attractive targets for pharmaceutical intervention in the treatment of diseases involving GR-regulated genes.
Expression of anti-Mllerian hormone, CDKN1B, connexin 43, androgen receptor and steroidogenic enzymes in the equine cryptorchid testis.	Cryptorchidism affects 2-8% of male horses and the affected testis undergoes a disruption of normal spermatogenesis. The underlying molecular changes are poorly understood in the cryptorchid equine testis.
Protective effect of ascorbic acid against ethanol-induced reproductive toxicity in male guinea pigs.	The present study was undertaken to elucidate the effect of ascorbic acid on alcohol-induced reproductive toxicity and also to compare it with that of abstention. A total of thirty-six male guinea pigs were divided into two groups and were maintained for 90 d as control and ethanol-treated groups (4 g/kg body weight (b.wt.)). After 90 d, ethanol administration was stopped and animals in the control group were divided into two groups and then maintained for 30 d as the control and control+ascorbic acid groups and those in the ethanol-treated group as ethanol abstention and ethanol+ascorbic acid (25 mg/100 g b. wt.) groups. Animals treated with ethanol showed a significant decline in sperm quality (P<0001), decreased activity of steroidogenic enzymes (P<005) and reduced serum testosterone (P<005), luteinising hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels, decrease in the activity of testicular succinate dehydrogenase, adenosine triphosphatase, sorbitol dehydrogenase and reduction in fructose content (P<005). It also caused an increase in testicular malondialdehyde levels (P<005) and decrease in the levels of glutathione content (P<0001) of testes. Ascorbic acid levels in testes and plasma were also reduced (P<0001) in ethanol-fed animals. Ascorbic acid supplementation altered all these parameters and produced a better and faster recovery from alcohol-induced reproductive toxicity than abstention. The mechanism of action of ascorbic acid may be by reducing the oxidative stress and improving antioxidant status, which eventually changed the microenvironment of testes and enhanced the energy needed for motility of sperms, improved the sperm morphology and elevated the testosterone and gonadotropin levels.
Differences in the metabolomic signatures of porcine follicular fluid collected from environments associated with good and poor oocyte quality.	The microenvironment of the developing follicle is critical to the acquisition of oocyte developmental competence, which is influenced by several factors including follicle size and season. The aim of this study was to characterise the metabolomic signatures of porcine follicular fluid (FF) collected from good and poor follicular environments, using high-resolution proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectroscopy. Sow ovaries were collected at slaughter, 4 days after weaning, in summer and winter. The contents of small (3-4 mm) and large (5-8 mm) diameter follicles were aspirated and pooled separately for each ovary pair. Groups classified as summer-small (n=8), summer-large (n=15), winter-small (n=9) and winter-large (n=15) were analysed by 1H-NMR spectroscopy. The concentrations of 11 metabolites differed due to follicle size alone (P<0.05), including glucose, lactate, hypoxanthine and five amino acids. The concentrations of all these metabolites, except for glucose, were lower in large FF compared with small FF. Significant interaction effects of follicle size and season were found for the concentrations of glutamate, glycine, N-acetyl groups and uridine. Succinate was the only metabolite that differed in concentration due to season alone (P<0.05). The FF levels of progesterone, androstenedione and oestradiol were correlated with the concentrations of most of the metabolites examined. The results indicate that there is a distinct shift in follicular glucose metabolism as follicles increase in diameter and suggest that follicular cells may be more vulnerable to oxidative stress during the summer months. Our findings demonstrate the power of 1H-NMR spectroscopy to expand our understanding of the dynamic and complex microenvironment of the developing follicle.
The involvement of growth hormone in equine oocyte maturation, receptor localization and steroid production by cumulus-oocyte complexes in vitro.	The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of equine growth hormone (eGH) on nuclear and cytoplasmic maturation of equine oocytes in vitro, steroid production by cumulus cells, and expression and subcellular localization of eGH-receptors (eGH-R) on equine ovarian follicles. Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were recovered by aspirating follicles <30 mm in diameter from abattoir-derived ovaries. The COCs were morphologically evaluated and randomly allocated to be cultured in either a control maturation medium or supplemented with 400 ng/mL eGH, for 30 h at 38.5C in air with 5% CO2. The COCs were stained with 10 g/mL propidium iodide and 10 g/mL fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled Lens culinaris agglutinin. Chromatin configuration and distribution of cortical granules were assessed via confocal microscopy. Compared to control, COCs incubated with eGH had: more oocytes that reached metaphase II (35/72, 48.6% vs. 60/89, 67.4%, respectively; P=0.02); greater concentrations of testosterone (0.21  0.04 vs. 0.06  0.01 ng/mL; P=0.01), progesterone (0.05  0.01 vs. 0.02  0.00 ng/mL; P=0.04), and oestradiol (76.80  14.26 vs. 39.58  8.87 pg/mL; P=0.05) in the culture medium, but no significant differences in concentration of androstenedione. Based on Real Time RT-PCR analyses, expression of the eGH-R gene was greater in cumulus cells and COCs at the start than at the end of in vitro maturation. Positive immunostaining for eGH-R was present in cumulus cells, the oocytes and granulosa cells. In conclusion, addition of eGH to maturation medium increased rates of cytoplasmic maturation and had an important role in equine oocyte maturation, perhaps mediated by the presence of eGH-R in ovarian follicles.
Sulfotransferase genes: regulation by nuclear receptors in response to xeno/endo-biotics.	Pregnane X receptor (PXR) and constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR), members of the nuclear receptor superfamily, are two major xeno-sensing transcription factors. They can be activated by a broad range of lipophilic xenobiotics including therapeutics drugs. In addition to xenobiotics, endogenous compounds such as steroid hormones and bile acids can also activate PXR and/or CAR. These nuclear receptors regulate genes that encode enzymes and transporters that metabolize and excrete both xenobiotics and endobiotics. Sulfotransferases (SULTs) are a group of these enzymes and sulfate xenobiotics for detoxification. In general, inactivation by sulfation constitutes the mechanism to maintain homeostasis of endobiotics. Thus, deciphering the molecular mechanism by which PXR and CAR regulate SULT genes is critical for understanding the roles of SULTs in the alterations of physiological and pathophysiological processes caused by drug treatment or environmental exposures.
Synthetic lipid nanoparticles targeting steroid organs.	Lipidots are original nanoparticulate lipid delivery vectors for drugs and contrast agents made from materials generally regarded as safe. Here, we characterized the in vivo stability, biodistribution, and pharmacokinetics of lipidots.
Fetal adrenal capsular cells serve as progenitor cells for steroidogenic and stromal adrenocortical cell lineages in M. musculus.	The lineage relationships of fetal adrenal cells and adrenal capsular cells to the differentiated adrenal cortex are not fully understood. Existing data support a role for each cell type as a progenitor for cells of the adult cortex. This report reveals that subsets of capsular cells are descendants of fetal adrenocortical cells that once expressed Nr5a1. These fetal adrenocortical cell descendants within the adrenal capsule express Gli1, a known marker of progenitors of steroidogenic adrenal cells. The capsule is also populated by cells that express Tcf21, a known inhibitor of Nr5a1 gene expression. We demonstrate that Tcf21-expressing cells give rise to Nr5a1-expressing cells but only before capsular formation. After the capsule has formed, capsular Tcf21-expressing cells give rise only to non-steroidogenic stromal adrenocortical cells, which also express collagen 1a1, desmin and platelet-derived growth factor (alpha polypeptide) but not Nr5a1. These observations integrate prior observations that define two separate origins of adult adrenocortical steroidogenic cells (fetal adrenal cortex and/or the adrenal capsule). Thus, these observations predict a unique temporal and/or spatial role of adult cortical cells that arise directly from either fetal cortical cells or from fetal cortex-derived capsular cells. Last, the data uncover the mechanism by which two populations of fetal cells (fetal cortex derived Gli1-expressing cells and mesenchymal Tcf21-expressing mesenchymal cells) participate in the establishment of the homeostatic capsular progenitor cell niche of the adult cortex. 
Properties of progestin-binding protein in benign hypertrophic human prostate.	RU 27987 is a new ligand for progesterone receptor and binds in high affinity to nuclei of target tissues of progesterone. Using this compound, progestin-binding components in the benign hypertrophic human prostate were studied, and compared with those examined with R 5020, a conventional ligand, in the study of progesterone receptor. In cytosols, the binding affinity of RU 27987 was higher than that of R 5020, and the number of maximum binding sites for RU 27987 seemed to be large but correlated well with those of R 5020. The binder for RU 27987 sedimented at 8.6 S, and the binding was specific to progestational steroids, indicating that binding properties of this binder in the cytosols are identical to those for R 5020. Although there was no binding with R 5020 in the nuclear extract, a small amount of specific binding with RU 27987 was detected. However, the cytosol bound with RU 27987 was not retained in DNA Sepharose and no specific binder for RU 27987 in the nuclear extract was observed in a sucrose density gradient centrifugation. From these observations, it was assumed that the nuclear binding observed was attributable to contamination of the cytosolic binder. The results obtained in the present study suggest that the progestin-binding component in the benign prostatic hypertrophy is not the progesterone receptor but a high affinity binder for progestins whose physiological role is not clear at present.
Yolk contributes steroid to the multidimensional endocrine environment of embryos of Niveoscincus metallicus, a viviparous skink with a moderately complex placenta.	Maternally-derived testosterone (T) and 17--oestradiol (E2) provide epigenetic mechanisms by which mothers can actively influence offspring phenotype. In amniotes, maternal steroids may be derived from yolk or transferred across the placenta according to parity mode. Viviparous reptiles utilise both a yolk and a placenta to support their developing embryos, but it has not yet been confirmed whether yolk is a source of maternal T and E2 in such species. We investigated this question using the viviparous lizard Niveoscincus metallicus as our model species. We measured T and E2 in the yolks during vitellogenesis, immediately post-ovulation and at progressive stages of gestation. Our results confirm that yolk is a substantial source of T and E2 in N. metallicus. Contrary to the pattern seen in many oviparous species, we did not observe a marked decline in yolk concentrations of either T or E2 after the initiation of sexual differentiation in the embryos. Rather, we found no statistically significant decline in yolk concentrations of both T and E2 post-ovulation. In viviparous reptiles that utilise both yolk and placenta to nourish their embryos, yolk likely plays an important role in these dynamics but that role is not yet clear. Further research is warranted to understand the importance of yolk steroids in the endocrine environment of the developing viviparous reptile. 
Active immunisation against pregnenolone reduces testicular steroidogenesis and GnRH synthesis in rabbits.	To investigate the effects of active immunisation against pregnenolone on reproductive traits in rabbits, 16 early pubertal male rabbits (4mo old) were randomly and equally allocated into two groups, control or immunised against pregnenolone-hemisuccinate-BSA in Freund's adjuvant (with a booster 4wk later). Blood samples (for antibody titres and hormone concentrations) were collected at 2 or 4wk-intervals after immunisation until rabbits were killed, 24wk after the primary immunisation. Compared to controls, rabbits immunised against pregnenolone had increased serum antibody titres (P<0.01) and decreased serum concentrations of both testosterone and LH (P<0.01 for each). At 24wk after the primary immunisation, testes were severely atrophied, spermatogenesis was arrested and steroidogenesis was suppressed, as evidenced by lesser amounts of testicular cholesterol side-chain cleavage cytochrome P-450 and 17-hydroxylase cytochrome P-450 mRNA (P<0.05). Furthermore, the amounts of mRNA for GnRH in the arcuate nucleus (Arc), of the hypothalamus and GnRH receptor and LH- in the pituitary and genes in sex-hormone negative feedback loops (androgen receptor, oestrogen alpha receptor, kisspeptin encoded gene and kisspeptin receptor) in the Arc were decreased in pregnenolone-immunised rabbits compared to controls (P<0.05). It was concluded that immunisation against pregnenolone directly blocked testicular steroidogenesis, which reduced synthesis of hypothalamic GnRH and subsequently synthesis of pituitary LH by abolishing the permissive action of sex steroids on hypothalamic GnRH neurons, thereby disrupting spermatogenesis. This was apparently the first report that active immunisation against pregnenolone was a means of immunological castration. 
Caged mudsnail Potamopyrgus antipodarum (Gray) as an integrated field biomonitoring tool: exposure assessment and reprotoxic effects of water column contamination.	This study highlights the usefulness of gastropods for water quality monitoring. Gastropods were caged upstream and downstream of an effluent discharge. Exposure was assessed by measurement of organic contaminants in water. Contamination of the Potamopyrgus antipodarum mudsnail was also measured using innovative techniques at the end of the 42 days of exposure. Biological effects were measured at the individual level (growth, reproduction) and subindividual level (energy reserves, vitellin-like proteins, steroid levels, expression of genes involved in estrogen signaling pathways), thus providing a better understanding of reprotoxic effects. The effluent was mainly contaminated by pharmaceutical compounds, as was the mudsnail. The highest concentrations were measured for oxazepam and were higher than 2mg/kg downstream of the effluent discharge. Alkylphenols, bisphenol A, and vertebrate-like sex-steroid hormones were also bioaccumulated by the mudsnail downstream of the effluent. The combined use of water and snail contamination provided a complete exposure assessment. Exposure was further linked to biological effects. The mudsnail was shown to be a better adapted species for in situ exposures than Valvata piscinalis. Reproduction was sharply decreased after 6 weeks of exposure in the mudsnail. Feeding issues were excluded, confirming the toxic origin. These effects were related to estrogen signaling pathways using genomic analysis. Genes coding for proteins involved in nongenomic signaling pathways were inhibited, and those of genomic pathway repressors were induced. These results suggest that the chemical contamination due to the effluent discharge altered steroid control of reproduction and blocked the transition between oocyte and unshelled embryo, resulting in a drastic decrease of embryo production, while survival was not affected. 
The orphan nuclear receptor SF-1 is involved in the effect of PCBs, DDT, and DDE on the secretion of steroid hormones and oxytocin from bovine luteal cells during the estrous cycle invitro.	The orphan receptor steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) is involved in the regulation of ovarian steroidogenesis in cows. It is hypothesized that estrogen-like chlorinated compounds might affect SF-1, and thus impair the function of the ovary. Bovine luteal cells from the estrous cycle (Days: 1-5, 6-10, 11-15, and 16-19) were treated for 50hours with DDT, 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethene, 3,3'4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl or 2'2'4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (each at a dose of 10ng/mL). Luteal cells were also treated with 4-(heptyloxy)phenol (1  10(-7)M), an SF-1 agonist, and F0160 (1  10(-6)M), an SF-1 blocker, jointly or separately. The secretion of progesterone and oxytocin and the expression of oxytocin precursor (NP-I/OT) messenger RNA were increased (P < 0.05) by all studied xenobiotics and 4-(heptyloxy)phenol, although they were inhibited (P < 0.05) by F0160. However, the xenobiotics did not affect (P > 0.05) SF-1 messenger RNA expression. In summary, SF-1 is involved in the adverse effect of chlorinated xenobiotics on the regulation of the bovine CL. 
Rooibos flavonoids inhibit the activity of key adrenal steroidogenic enzymes, modulating steroid hormone levels in H295R cells.	Major rooibos flavonoids--dihydrochalcones, aspalathin and nothofagin, flavones--orientin and vitexin, and a flavonol, rutin, were investigated to determine their influence on the activity of adrenal steroidogenic enzymes, 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3HSD2) and cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes, P450 17-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (CYP17A1), P450 21-hydroxylase (CYP21A2) and P450 11-hydroxylase (CYP11B1). All the flavonoids inhibited 3HSD2 and CYP17A1 significantly, while the inhibition of downstream enzymes, CYP21A2 and CYP11B1, was both substrate and flavonoid specific. The dihydrochalcones inhibited the activity of CYP21A2, but not that of CYP11B1. Although rutin, orientin and vitexin inhibited deoxycortisol conversion by CYP11B1 significantly, inhibition of deoxycorticosterone was <20%. These three flavonoids were unable to inhibit CYP21A2, with negligible inhibition of deoxycortisol biosynthesis only. Rooibos inhibited substrate conversion by CYP17A1 and CYP21A2, while the inhibition of other enzyme activities was <20%. In H295R cells, rutin had the greatest inhibitory effect on steroid production upon forskolin stimulation, reducing total steroid output 2.3-fold, while no effect was detected under basal conditions. Nothofagin and vitexin had a greater inhibitory effect on overall steroid production compared to aspalathin and orientin, respectively. The latter compounds contain two hydroxyl groups on the B ring, while nothofagin and vitexin contain a single hydroxyl group. In addition, all of the flavonoids are glycosylated, albeit at different positions--dihydrochalcones at C3' and flavones at C8 on ring A, while rutin, a larger molecule, has a rutinosyl moiety at C3 on ring C. Structural differences regarding the number and position of hydroxyl and glucose moieties as well as structural flexibility could indicate different mechanisms by which these flavonoids influence the activity of adrenal steroidogenic enzymes.
Gonadal function in males with autoimmune Addison's disease and autoantibodies to steroidogenic enzymes.	Steroidogenic enzyme autoantibodies (SEAbs) are frequently present and are markers of autoimmune premature ovarian failure (POF) in females with autoimmune Addison's disease (AAD). The prevalence and significance of SEAbs in males with AAD have not yet been defined. We studied the prevalence of SEAbs in a large cohort of males with AAD and assessed the relationship between SEAbs positivity and testicular function. A total of 154 males with AAD (mean age 34 years) were studied. SEAbs included autoantibodies to steroid-producing cells (StCA), detected by immunofluorescence, and steroid 17-hydroxylase (17-OHAbs) and side chain cleavage enzyme (SCCAbs) measured by immunoprecipitation assays. Gonadal function was evaluated by measuring follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), total testosterone (TT), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHGB), anti-mllerian hormone (AMH) and inhibin-B (I-B). Twenty-six males, 10 SEAbs((+)) and 16 SEAbs((-)), were followed-up for a mean period of 76 years to assess the behaviour of SEAbs and testicular function. SEAbs were found in 247% of males with AAD, with the highest frequency in patients with autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1 (APS-1). The levels of reproductive hormones in 30 SEAbs((+)) males were in the normal range according to age and were not significantly different compared to 55 SEAbs((-)) males (P>005). During follow-up, both SEAbs((+)) and SEAbs((-)) patients maintained normal testicular function. SEAbs were found with high frequency in males with AAD; however, they were not associated with testicular failure. This study suggests that the diagnostic value of SEAbs in males with AAD differs compared to females, and this may be related to the immunoprivileged status of the testis.
New perspectives on the molecular pharmacology of affective disorders.	Research with antidepressants has emphasized the importance of a delayed deamplification of the linked serotonin (5HT)/norepinephrine (NE) receptor coupled adenylate cyclase system in brain. The basic phenomena of regulation of receptor number and function of the beta adrenoceptor linked adenylate cyclase system in brain are well established, with NE regulating beta adrenoceptors in the high agonist affinity conformation (linked to adenylate cyclase and down-regulated by antidepressants), and with 5HT regulating those receptors in the low agonist affinity conformation. The biochemical effector systems of NE and 5HT are discussed and it is concluded that the final common pathway of signal transduction is protein kinase mediated phosphorylation of cellular proteins. Glucocorticoid receptors are located in the perikarya of aminergic cell bodies and may exert their effects by modifying the genomic expression of the diffusely projecting stress-responsive monoamine systems. The molecular neurobiology of beta adrenoceptors, with its implication for genetic and immunologic investigations, is briefly discussed and further research on stimulus-transcription coupling and regulation of gene expression in brain is suggested as an exciting new direction in central receptor research relevant to the psychopharmacology of affective and other disorders.
Differential up- and down-regulation of type I and type II receptors for adrenocorticosteroid hormones in mouse brain.	Adult female mice were adrenalectomized and ovariectomized and the concentration of Type I and Type II receptors in whole brain, kidney, and liver cytosol determined at various time thereafter by incubation with [3H]aldosterone (+ RU 26988 to prevent binding to Type II receptors) or [3H]dexamethasone, respectively. Type I receptor binding in brain was found to undergo a dramatic biphasic up-regulation, with levels six times that of intact levels by 24 h post-surgery and a doubling again by 4-8 days post-surgery. By 16 days, however, Type I specific binding had returned to intact levels. Similar, but less dramatic fluctuations were seen in kidney and liver, whereas much smaller fluctuations were seen for Type II receptors in all three tissues. In a follow-up study with Scatchard analyses we observed a similar transient up- and down-regulation in maximal binding for Type I, and to a lesser extent Type II receptors in all three tissues. As expected, the apparent binding affinity for both receptors increased after surgical removal of competing endogenous steroids. Radioimmunoassays revealed that plasma concentrations of corticosterone were reduced to near undetectable levels by 24 h post-surgery. A direct comparison of male and female mice revealed no sex-related differences in Type I receptor binding capacity fluctuations in brain cytosol after adrenalectomy-gonadectomy. Lastly, treatment with exogenous aldosterone or corticosterone was found to prevent adrenalectomy-gonadectomy-induced up-regulation of Type I and, to a lesser extent, Type II receptors in brain. Somewhat surprisingly, the potency of these two adrenocorticosteroids appeared to be very similar for both receptor types.
The combined effects of dietary proteins and fish oil on cholesterol metabolism in rats of different ages.	Male Sprague-Dawley rats at the ages of four weeks and nine months were fed purified diets containing 20% proteins either as casein (CAS), milk whey protein (WHY), or soybean protein (SOY) with 5% sardine oil for four weeks. The hypocholesterolemic effect of SOY was not statistically evident as compared to milk proteins at both ages, although serum cholesterol tended to be low in the SOY groups. A significant age-dependent increase in serum cholesterol was observed in all dietary groups. Liver cholesterol concentrations were comparable in young rats, whereas in adults they were significantly lower in the SOY than in the CAS or WHY groups. At both ages, the activity of liver 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase tended to be higher in the SOY than in the other groups. Fecal steroid excretion was significantly higher in rats fed SOY than those fed either CAS or WHY, especially in adult rats. Significant age- and dietary protein-effects were observed in fatty acid profiles of liver microsomal phospholipids. Thus, the effects of dietary proteins on various lipid parameters were essentially maintained even when fish oil served as the source of dietary fat.
Modulation of steroid affinity for the androgen receptor by sucrose.	The effects of sucrose on androgen binding to its receptor were investigated. Sucrose decreased the rate of thermal inactivation of unoccupied and occupied androgen receptor (AR) and the rates of [3H]5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone [( 3H]DHT) dissociation from both activated and nonactivated AR complexes. Binding of [3H]DHT to AR in vivo, or in intact cells at 37 degrees C, caused reduction of [3H]DHT dissociation from cytosolic and nuclear complexes, as compared to in vitro labeled receptor complexes. Further, exposure of these complexes to sucrose at 0 degrees C caused an additional reduction of dissociation rates. Thus, the decrease of [3H]DHT dissociation induced by sucrose is independent of the reaction that reduces DHT dissociation from activated and transformed AR. Sucrose also reduced the ability of mersalyl acid to inactivate AR complexes. This effect of sucrose was markedly diminished in the presence of 2M urea. Sucrose did not significantly affect the association rate, sedimentation properties, or nuclear binding ability of AR complexes, but it did decrease the equilibrium dissociation constant. Other monosaccharides and disaccharides also stabilized AR. These data suggest that sucrose induces conformational changes in the steroid binding domain of androgen receptor, thereby reducing the rates of inactivation, steroid dissociation, and the accessibility of sulfhydryl groups to mersalyl.
Estradiol-induced blockade of ovulation in the cow: effects on luteinizing hormone release and follicular fluid steroids.	Administration of 10 mg estradiol valerate (EV) to nonlactating Holstein cows on Days 16 of the estrous cycle prevented ovulation in 7 of 8 cows for 14 days post-injection. In these 7 cows, the timing of luteolysis and the luteinizing hormone (LH) surge was variable but within the normal range. At 14 days post-treatment, each of these cows had a large (greater than 10 mm) follicle, with 558 +/- 98 ng/ml estradiol-17 beta, 120 +/- 31 ng/ml testosterone, and 31 +/- 2 ng/ml progesterone in follicular fluid (means +/- SE). A second group of animals was then either treated with EV as before (n = 22), or not injected (control, n = 17) and ovariectomized on either Day 17, Day 18.5, Day 20, or Day 21.5 (24, 60, 96, or 132 h post-EV). Treatment with EV did not influence the timing of luteolysis, but surges of LH occurred earlier (59 +/- 8 h post-EV vs. 100 +/- 11 h in controls). The interval from luteolysis to LH peak was reduced from 44 +/- 6 h (controls) to 6.9 +/- 1.5 h (treated). Histologically, the largest follicle in controls tended to be atretic before luteolysis, but nonatretic afterwards, whereas the largest follicle in treated animals always tended to be atretic. Nonatretic follicles contained high concentrations of estradiol (408 +/- 59 ng/ml) and moderate amounts of testosterone (107 +/- 33 ng/ml) and progesterone (101 +/- 21 ng/ml), whereas atretic follicles contained low concentrations of estradiol (8 +/- 4 ng/ml) and testosterone (12 +/- 4 ng/ml), and either low (56 +/- 24 ng/ml) or very high (602 +/- 344 ng/ml) concentrations of progesterone. This study suggests that EV prevents ovulation by inducing atresia of the potential preovulatory follicle, which is replaced by a healthy large follicle by 14 days post-treatment.
Modulation of 17 alpha-hydroxylase/C17,20-lyase activity in porcine theca cells.	The major source of ovarian androgen is the theca cells. Androgens are produced by the conversion of progestins by the 17 alpha-hydroxylase/C17,20 lyase enzymatic system (lyase). The 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and aromatase enzymes in the theca cells are modulated by gonadotropins as well as by steroids produced locally. Therefore, the combined effects of hCG plus progesterone, estradiol, or dihydrotestosterone (DHT) on microsomal lyase activity in theca cells from large and medium-sized follicles were determined. Theca cells (3 x 10(6) cells/6 ml/well) were cultured in Medium 199 (M199) containing only insulin (10 micrograms/ml) and transferrin (5 micrograms/ml). At 24 h, theca cells were treated with M199, hCG (15 ng/ml), progesterone, estradiol, or DHT (100 ng/ml) or a combination of hCG + one of the three steroids. Media were removed at various times of culture (27-72 h) and levels of androgen determined by RIA. Microsomes were incubated with 1 microCi [3H]progesterone +0.5 mM NADPH and radioactive conversion products were measured after purification by thin layer chromatography. Administration of progesterone, estradiol, or DHT alone had little effect on lyase activity in theca cells from medium-sized follicles whereas the addition of hCG alone significantly increased lyase activity in these cells. However, concomitant addition of any steroid with hCG inhibited the increase in lyase activity after the addition of hCG alone. Theca cells from large porcine follicles had a higher basal level of lyase activity compared to theca cells from the smaller follicles. Lyase activity in theca cells from large follicles was enhanced by progesterone; estradiol was inhibitory. DHT initially stimulated lyase activity in theca cells from large follicles, but was inhibitory later in culture. In contrast to its marked effect on theca cells from medium follicles, hCG had only a small effect on lyase activity in theca cells from large follicles. Thus, thecal lyase activity increased as the follicle matured, providing more androgen substrate for the production of estrogen. Lyase activity in theca cells of medium follicles appears to be regulated predominantly by gonadotropin from the pituitary while intraovarian regulation of lyase activity by steroids may be more important in larger follicles.
Hydroxylation of steroids with nonpolar side chains with 11 alpha-hydroxylase of Rhizopus nigricans.	Steroids with nonpolar side chains with 2, 4 and 8 C atoms were used as substrates for the 11 alpha-hydroxylase of Rhizopus nigricans. Their bioconversion was compared to that of progesterone, which was found to be far the best substrate giving the highest total bioconversion. 3-keto-4-ene steroids with nonpolar side chains were converted to their hydroxylated products in a small yield or not at all. The absence of an oxygen function in the side chain did not affect the regio-specificity of the hydroxylation, but resulted in a much lower total bioconversion. The strong effect of the oxygen function and of the length of the side chain on hydroxylation with the 11 alpha-hydroxylase of Rhizopus nigricans was demonstrated.
Development of the pituitary-adrenal axis during fetal life: modalities and regulation]	In mammals, the fetal adrenal gland plays a key role during late gestation since the maturation of the fetus and the adaptation of the neonate to extra uterine life mainly depend on glucocorticoids. We review herein the present knowledge concerning the modalities and the endocrine control of the development of the pituitary-adrenal axis in the two most studied models: the ovine and the human fetus. Although the anatomy of the adrenal gland is different in these 2 species, the mechanisms involved in the maturation of adrenocortical cells appear rather similar. Moreover, in both species, the prepartum rise of corticosteroid plasma levels which conveys growth and differentiation of adrenocortical cells, is under pituitary control; this likely involves an increase in the "corticotropic activity" which results from changes in the cleavage of POMC and possibly from a synergistic of inhibitory effect of other hormones with ACTH.
Hormones and parturition in primates]	In primates, the endocrine signals which correlate with the end of gestation, i.e. account for fetal maturity, and initiate the parturition, i.e. trigger the myometrium contractility, remain unknown. Direct and indirect evidence supports the view that, as with domestic mammals, progesterone (or the estrogen/-progesterone ratio) plays a prominent role in inhibiting the contractility of the pregnant uterus. In the past few years an increasing number of endocrine factors have been identified in the placenta. They may contribute to the control of local or systemic steroid production but their effects are extraordinarily intermingled and it is impossible today to state whether any of them are relevant to the mechanism of parturition. The trophoblast and the myometrium establish close contact in the primate pregnancy. This is evidenced by histological studies and also by the influence of the proximity of the placenta on tissue steroid concentrations and the mechanisms of hormone coupling in the myometrium. Specific types or subtypes of myometrium hormone receptors are now well identified (e.g. to oxytocin, to catecholamines) and this now permits a better understanding of the role of their endogenous agonists in the course of parturition. However, such data are still lacking for other factors (e.g. prostanoids, VIP, relaxin...) involved to varying degrees in this process.
The dynamics of steroid and adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate output in perifused interstitial cell aggregates derived from prepubertal rat testes.	The characteristics of the steroidogenic response of reaggregated rat interstitial cells were examined in a perifusion system. Interstitial cells were isolated from 19-day-old rat testes by digestion with collagenase. The cells were cultured for 3 days as monolayers and were resuspended by brief treatment with trypsin. Constant gyratory shaking of the dispersed cells resulted in the formation of round and compact aggregates of 70-140 microns. The functional characteristics of these aggregates were examined by studying the output of cAMP, C19 steroids (testosterone and androstenedione), and C21 steroids (progesterone, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, 20 alpha-hydroxypregn-4-en-3-one) in a perfusion system. It is demonstrated that reaggregated interstitial cells maintain their responsiveness to LH, LHRH, and Leydig cell stimulatory factor(s) produced by Sertoli cells for at least 12 days. When exposed to low concentrations of LH (1 ng/ml), either in a continuous or in a pulsatile fashion, perifused aggregates maintain a constant output of steroids for more than 20 h. Under these conditions, LH-dependent differentiation of the steroidogenic machinery can be observed in vitro. In fact, although the sum of the measured steroids remains constant, C21 steroids progressively decrease whereas C19 steroid output increases during perifusion. When perifused with high concentrations of LH (10 ng/ml), desensitization becomes the predominant phenomenon. It is demonstrated that the steroid output of reaggregated interstitial cells considerably exceeds that of similarly treated cells maintained as monolayers. Moreover, perifusion of aggregates results in a 6-fold increase in steroid output as compared to static incubation and in a selective increase in androgen output. It is concluded that prepubertal interstitial cells allowed to reaggregate in suspension culture form functional multicellular structures. Perifusion of these aggregates is a useful tool in the study of the dynamics of the regulation of steroidogenesis.
Contradictory evidence concerning the "universal" role of growth hormone in the regulation of the enzyme activities of hepatic steroid metabolism.	Recent publications suggest that the sexual dimorphism observed in the activities of enzymes involved in drug and steroid metabolism in rat liver are due to sex-specific differences in the rate of growth hormone release. In this paper we set out to demonstrate that this hypothesis cannot be generalized, but has its limitations. Prepuberal hypophysectomy led to the expected "masculinization" of the activities of cytoplasmic 3 alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 alpha-HSDH), microsomal 3 alpha-HSDH and microsomal 5 alpha-reductase which could be reversed by continuous infusion of human growth hormone (hGH). However, one activity did not conform to this pattern: cytoplasmic 17 beta-HSDH activity reacted to hypophysectomy with a "feminization" and was completely unaffected by hGH infusion. Moreover, microsomal 3 alpha-HSDH in hypophysectomized rats was "feminized" as efficiently by infusion of ovine prolactin (oPRL) as by hGH. Ablation of the pituitary caused loss of measurable cytoplasmic receptor oestrogen concentrations. The inability of either hypophyseal hormone to cause consistent and significant elevation of oestrogen receptor concentrations is probably due to the early age at which the animals were hypophysectomized.
Receptor radioligand system for measuring digoxin activity.	The purpose of this study was to develop and evaluate a receptor radioligand assay (RRA) for the measurement of digoxin, its metabolites, and endoxin and to compare the results of this assay with those of a fluorescence polarization immunoassay (FPIA) for digoxin. The within-run coefficients of variations for the RRA at digoxin concentrations of 2.0 and 5.0 nmol/L were 21 and 10%, respectively. Serum samples collected from 33 volunteers (not on digoxin medication) measured in the RRA resulted in levels less than 1.23 nmol/L digoxin equivalents (1.23 nmol/L is the lower level of sensitivity for this system). Serum samples collected from 29 patients receiving digoxin for therapeutic purposes and measured in the RRA gave a mean of 3.39 nmol/L digoxin equivalents. The samples collected from the patients receiving digoxin were also measured using FPIA with a mean of 1.75 nmol/L digoxin. The interference of progesterone, 11-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone, cortisone, and six digoxin metabolites on the binding of 3H-ouabain in the RRA was also evaluated.
Plasma and biliary cholestanol related to steroid metabolism in familial hypercholesterolemia patients with and without ileal exclusion.	Plasma cholestanol is increased in cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis and in sitosterolemia with xanthomatosis. We measured plasma and biliary cholestanol in heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia patients with (n = 10) and without (n = 12) ileal exclusion. In the unoperated patients plasma cholestanol concentration (12.9 mumol/l) and content (1.2 mmol/mol cholesterol) were slightly higher than in the nonhypercholesterolemic control subjects studied by us. Ileal exclusion had lowered plasma cholestanol concentration but only in proportion to the lowering of plasma cholesterol concentration, and plasma cholestanol content (mmol/mol cholesterol) was similar in the operated and unoperated subjects. Plasma and biliary cholestanol contents were positively associated. In the unoperated patients the fractional cholesterol absorption and plasma plant sterols, also reflecting sterol absorption, were positively correlated with plasma cholestanol content. Our study suggests, that plasma cholestanol is slightly elevated in familial hypercholesterolemia and that, in addition to plasma lipoprotein level, sterol absorption is important in the regulation of plasma cholestanol level. Ileal exclusion decreases plasma cholestanol in proportion to the decrement in the plasma cholesterol concentration.
Steroid hormone target cells in the periventricular brain: relationship to peptide hormone producing cells.	Steroid hormone concentrating cells in hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic regions are reviewed and the topographic relationship to the periventricular brain and the ventricular recess organs is discussed. Steroid hormone target cells in the brain are considered feedback sites and production sites of polypeptide hormones. The anatomical distribution of estrogen, androgen and progestin target neurons, as defined by autoradiography, is compared with the localization of antibodies to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and somatostatin in perikarya of neurons, as characterized by immunocytochemistry. Around the optic recess of the third ventricle in the lamina terminalis and the preoptic nucleus as well as in the periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the steroid hormone target neurons and the assumed polypeptide hormone producing neurons occupy corresponding sites.
The effect of insulin on steroid metabolism in isolated rat hepatocytes.	Insulin administration has previously been shown to reverse the effects of chemically-induced and spontaneous diabetes on hepatic drug and steroid metabolism in the rat. The complex network of the intact hormonal system of the body and its physiological feedback mechanisms makes it difficult to ascribe the effects seen to any particular hormones. The present study investigated the effect of insulin on hepatic steroid metabolism in the absence of other hormonal influences by using isolated rat liver cells. Insulin (10(-9) M) produced two peaks of increased enzyme activity in the hepatocytes (at 1/2 hr and 24 hr). Dose-response curves at 1/2 hr and 24 hr insulin preincubation suggest that these two peaks are probably generated by different mechanisms. The absence of any significant changes in cytochrome P-450 content after 1/2, 1 and 2 hr of insulin treatment indicates that the increase in steroid metabolizing enzyme activities is not due to an increase in de-novo enzyme synthesis. Our observations provide further evidence for the role played by insulin in the regulation of hepatic steroid and drug metabolism in the rat.
Mechanisms of transfer of steroid hormones and growth factors into milk.	In this paper we examine the ability of the mammary gland to remove from circulating blood three compounds which differ in their physico-chemical and structural properties. Mammary extraction of progesterone, oestrone sulphate and epidermal growth factor (EGF) is similar at peak lactation in goats, but the proportion of labelled infusate that is transferred into milk is greater for oestrone sulphate and EGF than progesterone which is rapidly metabolised by mammary tissue. The kinetics of transfer of progesterone, oestrone sulphate and EGF from blood into milk show that transcellular processes are involved, and on the basis of earlier hypotheses and new information reported here the results indicate the probable importance of simple and facilitated diffusion pathways for progesterone and oestrone sulphate, and secretory mechanisms for oestrone sulphate and EGF. Although evidence is lacking for a direct effect of hormones in milk on mammary function, their concentration in milk may reflect changes in local regulation of mammary secretion. Considerable practical value is attached to the immunodiagnostic use of milk hormone concentrations to determine ovarian and placental endocrine activity during pregnancy in domestic ruminants.
Adrenocortical hormones and lactation: metabolism of 3H-corticosterone and 3H-aldosterone by rat mammary gland minces and by the nuclear fraction of the homogenates.	3H-Corticosterone undergoes extensive metabolism on incubation with mammary acini and minced mammary glands from lactating rats; 3H-corticosterone-21-oleate was the major radiometabolite formed. In a similar study with 3H-aldosterone, 3H-aldosterone-21-oleate was one of the two major radiometabolites formed. In the present study, an enzyme system highly active in the biosynthesis of 21-acyl-3H-corticosterone was demonstrated to be present chiefly in the nuclear fraction of mammary gland homogenates. The enzyme system comprises: a fatty acid thiokinase (or fatty acyl-CoA synthetase); a fatty acyl transferase. The methods entailed incubation of 3H-corticosterone with the nuclear fraction in the presence and absence of: the cofactors, CoA, ATP, and Mg2+; oleoyl-CoA and other fatty acyl-CoA donors. The results of the present investigation support the view that the major cellular site for the acylation of adrenocortical hormones is the nucleus. It has been suggested that the acylation serves to modulate the biological action of the hormones on the mammary glands by interaction with the glucocorticoid receptor.
Somatomedins and steroids.	Somatomedin levels measured by radioreceptor assay, competitive protein-binding assay or radioimmunoassay are normal in hypercortisolism; the decrease of somatomedin activity consistently found in this condition is due to an increase in circulating somatomedin inhibitors resulting in an inhibition of somatomedin action. Progestagens could possibly have a direct stimulatory effect on somatomedin-C (Sm-C) production. During puberty, the increase of Sm-C is correlated with the increase in plasma estradiol and testosterone. In young subjects, relatively low doses of estrogens and of testosterone enhance Sm-C secretion, and in adult menstruating women, a positive relationship is found between testosterone and Sm-C values. An inhibitory effect of estrogens on Sm-C is observed with higher doses and/or in older subjects. Thus, somatomedin levels might be modulated by variations of sex steroids.
Influence of placental protein hormones on maternal physiology]	Our data have demonstrated that maternal LH and FSH are repressed throughout pregnancy. Beside, we have discovered and characterized a variant placental GH. Our studies on the mechanism of anovulation and on pituitary GH suppression and GH physiology in pregnant women have contributed to demonstrate the autonomy of the fetoplacental unit and its effects on maternal anabolism and physiology. More specifically, human placental GH, coded by the GH-V gene appears responsible for the anabolic and somatotropic effects mediated by SM-C in the mother. The beneficial aspect of this mechanism for the species appears likely since placental tissues in which the GH-PL genes are deleted, express alternative gene(s) resulting in the production of a placental variant closely related or identical to pituitary 22K GH.
Study of the metabolism of steroids in larvae of the fleshfly Sarcophaga bullata.	1. Larvae of the fleshfly Sarcophaga bullata were injected with several 3H C21 and C19 steroids. After different incubation times, the larvae were homogenized and the metabolites were extracted and fractionated by Sephadex LH 20-, paper- and thin-layer chromatography. The chromatographic mobility of the labeled zones was compared with that of standard steroids. 2. Progesterone and 17 alpha-hydroxypregnenolone were metabolized to 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone. Androstenedione, 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and dehydroepiandrosterone were converted to testosterone. Transformation of pregnenolone to progesterone or 17 alpha-hydroxypregnenolone was not observed. 3. C21 or C19 steroid formation from cholesterol could not be demonstrated. 4. Sixteen metabolites, different from all our standard substances have been found. Their structure remains to be elucidated.
Characterization of a monoclonal antibody that probes the functional domains of the glucocorticoid receptor.	Monoclonal antibodies to the rat hepatic glucocorticoid receptor (GR) were produced by using 4000-fold-purified unactivated rat hepatic GR as the immunogen in an immunization in vitro. Hybridomas were screened for anti-GR antibody production by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The antibody, 3A6, described here, is an IgM (lambda). The interaction of 3A6 with the purified GR was explored by sedimentation analysis, where a shift of the 9 S GR to a form with a higher s20,w value was demonstrated. Binding specificity and sensitivity were demonstrated by protein immunoblotting. 3A6 cross-reacted with all rat tissue glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) examined, except those of the brain. Species cross-reactivity was observed with other mammalian GRs (from human CEM-C7 cells and from pig and mouse liver). Immunocytochemical localization of the GR was assessed by indirect immunofluorescence in intact fixed cells, which demonstrated intense cytoplasmic staining in the absence of pretreatment with glucocorticoids and nuclear localization when cells were pretreated with glucocorticoids. This monoclonal antibody significantly inhibited steroid binding to unoccupied receptor and DNA binding of activated steroid-receptor complexes. Furthermore, preincubation of the purified activated GR complex with 3A6 prevented phosphorylation of the GR in vitro. Thus 3A6 differs from previous monoclonal antibodies to the GR in its capacity to cross-react with the human GR and by its specificity for an epitope on or near a functional domain of the GR.
Model systems for pharmacokinetics of steroid drugs subject to enterohepatic circulation.	A number of drugs including steroid hormones undergo enterohepatic circulation (EHC) which influences the drug disposition parameters. EHC of drugs leads to prolonged drug exposition which may enhance the risk of liver incompatibility. The extent of EHC expressed by the reabsorption rate of a given drug is of interest from the clinical and toxicological point of view. A two-compartment model with an additional time lag was realized by a hybrid computer system to study the influence of EHC on the shape of plasma concentration-time profiles and pharmacokinetic parameters. Reabsorption rates of potential steroid drugs were calculated by model-simulation and the results compared with the experimentally found ones. Although the lag time model is only a simplified approximation to the underlying physiological processes it reflects sufficiently the pharmacokinetic profile of steroid drugs subject to EHC.
The effect of neuraminidase on the molecular weight and the isoelectric point of the steroid induced alkaline phosphatase of dogs.	Isoelectric focusing and gradient polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were used to define the physical differences between canine liver alkaline phosphatase (LAP) and steroid induced alkaline phosphatase (SIAP). LAP has an isoelectric point (pI) of pH 4.3 and a molecular radius (Mr) of 100,000, while SIAP has a pI of pH 3.5 and an Mr of 110,000. After removal of sialic acid residues by neuraminidase, the two isoenzymes were still distinct. The pIs of both LAP and SIAP were increased with the pI of LAP becoming pH 4.7 to 4.8 and that of SIAP becoming pH 4.5 to 4.6. On gradient polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulphate, SIAP gave a single band of Mr 100 000 after neuraminidase treatment, while LAP increased in molecular size in spite of the denaturing conditions of the electrophoretic separation.
Fecal steroid excretion in relation to the development of casein-induced hypercholesterolemia in rabbits.	Two groups of nine rabbits fed a purified diet containing soy protein were injected intravenously with [4-14C]cholesterol. One group was fed the same diet for 78 d while the other group was fed a diet containing casein. The feces of the rabbits were collected and analyzed for radioactivity present in the neutral steroid and bile acid fractions. The excretion of neutral steroids and bile acids was lowered within 3 d after soy protein was replaced by casein and before the serum cholesterol concentration was increased. However, in the casein-fed rabbits the specific radioactivity of the bile acids was greater, whereas the amount of excreted bile acids was lower than in the soy protein-fed rabbits. After the serum cholesterol level in the casein-fed animals became constant (d 35), a further injection of [4-14C]cholesterol was given to all animals. Kinetic parameters of cholesterol metabolism according to a two-pool model were estimated from the die-away curve of [4-14C]cholesterol in serum. The size of the rapidly exchangeable pool (pool A) was greater in the casein-fed rabbits than in the soy protein-fed rabbits, whereas the size of pool B was similar in the two groups. The partial turnover rate of pool A was lower, as was the partial turnover of the slowly exchangeable pool (pool B), and the production rate of cholesterol was significantly lower on the casein-fed rabbits than in the soy protein-fed rabbits. This study suggests that the reduced excretion of steroids in casein-fed rabbits could be the cause of the hypercholesterolemia and is not the result of it.
Ten years clinical experience with partial ileal bypass in management of the hyperlipidemias.	The first partial ileal bypass operation specifically for the reduction of plasma lipids was performed by us in 1963. Since then we have operated upon and followed for more than three months 126 hyperlipidemic patients. Clinical metabolic studies, before and after the procedure, have demonstrated a 60% decrease in cholesterol absorption, a 3.8-fold increase in total fecal steroid excretion, a 5.7-fold increase in cholesterol synthesis, a 3-fold increase in cholesterol turnover, and a one-third decrease in the miscible cholesterol pool. Circulating cholesterol levels have been lowered an average 41.1% from the preoperative but postdietary baseline. An average 53% cholesterol reduction has been achieved from a pretreatment baseline using a combination of dietary and surgical management. Plasma triglycerides have been reduced in primary hypertriglyceridemic patients (type IV) an average of 52.6% from their preoperative but postdietary baseline. One patient died in the hospital and there have been 13 late deaths over the past 10 years. Four cases of postoperative bowel obstruction required reoperation. Diarrhea following partial ileal bypass is, as a rule, transistory and not a significant problem. No appreciable weight loss results from partial ileal bypass, which is an obvious distinction from the results of the far more massive jejuno-ileal bypass procedure for obesity. We have not encountered hepatotoxic, lithogenic, or nephrolithiasis complications in our partial ileal bypass patients. Sixty-nine per cent of our patients with preoperative angina pectoris have postoperative improvement or total remission of this symptom complex. Serial appraisal of followup coronary arteriographic studies offers preliminary evidence for lesion regression. It is concluded that partial ileal bypass is the most effective means for lipid reduction available today; it is obligatory in its actions, safe, and associated with minimal side effects.
Microbial transformation of flavonoids.	The ability of a number of fungal spores, and in particular of resting vegetative mycelia, to transform naringin and naringenin was studied. In general, only hydrolytic cleavage of the sugar moieties of naringin to produce prunin and naringenin was observed. Two cultures, Penicillium charlesii and Helminthosporium sativum, also produced two unidentified flavonoid compounds but in very low yields. No transformation of aglycone was detected, although the compound was metabolized by some cultures when supplied as the glycoside prunin. A fluorodensitometric method was developed for the quantitative analysis of flavonoid compounds.
Penetration of sugars, steroids, amino acids, and other organic compounds into the interior of the squid giant axon.	Squid axons were exposed to solutions of C(14)-labeled compounds. After 60 minutes the axoplasm was extruded and assayed for radioactivity. The following compounds penetrated to about 3 per cent of what would have been expected had there been no barrier to free diffusion and the subsequent attainment of equivalent distribution: mannitol, sucrose, glutamate, glutamine, aspartate, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, lambda-aminobutyrate, serotonin, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. All these compounds are water-soluble; in addition, some are ionized over the entire pH range. Partially ionized indoleacetate, acetylsalicylate, and 5,5-diphenylhydantoin penetrated about 40 per cent and unionized, water-insoluble cortisol and dieldrin, 100 per cent. A striking exception to this grouping was glucose, which penetrated about 20 per cent. Studies with specifically labeled glucose indicate participation of the pentose phosphate pathway as a metabolic route in axonal membrane and associated cell wall material, and partial or complete absence of the oxidative system in the axoplasm. Except for glucose, penetration of the substances studied appears to depend largely on the extent of the non-polar, lipophilic character of the compound. Penetration can be markedly increased by pretreatment of the axons with cottonmouth moccasin venom.
Steroid transport through the surface of the prothoracic gland cells in Galleria mellonella L.	Steroid transport through the cell surface of the giant polyploid prothoracic gland cells of Galleria mellonella L. was studied by an ultracytochemical method. The alkaloid digitonin, known to form a complex with all sterols having a free-OH radical in position 3, proved to be suitable for studying the interiorisation of moulting hormone precursors and the release of synthesized hormones. The results suggest that cholesterol uptake in the last larval instar occurs by macropinocytosis during the feeding period, while the release of the steroids produced by the gland occurs by reverse micropinocytosis mostly on days 5-7 of the instar. The two processes are not simultaneous. The intracytoplasmic localisation of the reaction product confirms the steroidogenic role of the prothoracic gland.
Growth hormone: a regulator of the sexually differentiated steroid metabolism in rat liver.	Specific lesions in the periventricular area of the hypothalamus in male rats lead to a partial feminization of the liver steroid metabolism and a simultaneous reduction of the somatostatin level in the median eminence. Administration of an antiserum against somatostatin causes a similar degree of feminization of liver metabolism in male rats. Thus somatostatin could be the neuroendocrine regulator of the sexually differentiated metabolism of steroids in rat liver. A possible influence from the amygdaloid complex in regulating hepatic steroid metabolism is also indicated since large lesions in the amygdala cause a slight feminization of hepatic steroid metabolism in male rats. The female pattern of hepatic steroid metabolism is induced following frequent administration of hGH. The feminizing effect of hGH on hepatic steroid metabolism does not require the presence of gonads, adrenals, or thyroid. The somatogenic property of hGH seems to be responsible for the feminizing effect since purified rGH alone gives a complete feminization of hepatic steroid metabolism in hypophysectomized animals. rGH purified from male or female pituitary glands is equally efficient in feminizing hepatic steroid metabolism. Furthermore, male or female rGH have the same apparent molecular weight and isoelectric point. The mechanism whereby GH regulates hepatic steroid metabolism could be related to the sexually differentiated secretory profile of GH in the rat. A continuous presence of GH in the circulation seems to be a prerequisite for a female pattern of hepatic steroid metabolism. By analogy, it may be suggested that the high-peak, low-trough secretory pattern of GH characteristic of male rats causes a masculine type of liver steroid metabolism. Gonadal hormones affect both the secretory profile of GH and hepatic steroid metabolism. It is most probable that gonadal hormones affect liver steroid metabolism via modulations of the GH secretory profile. Possibly, estrogen exerts its effect directly on the pituitary by stimulating GH secretion. Androgen most probably has its primary site of action in the anterior hypothalamus or in extrahypothalamic areas. A plausible mechanism is that androgens stimulate the hypothalamic GH-inhibitory center. An overall view of the present hypothesis concerning hypothalamopituitary regulation of the sexually differentiated hepatic steroid metabolism in the rat is presented in Figure 2.
Considerations in the selection and use of chemicals within the animal facility.	Chemicals are important and unavoidable parameters in the milieu of the laboratory animal used in biomedical research today. Examples of chemicals used include detergents and sanitizing agents. Detergents are used to remove dirt while sanitizing compounds, such as germicidal agents, decrease bacteria, fungi or viruses in the facility. The types used (that is, phenols, alcohols, oxidizing agents) depend upon the degree of cleanliness and the sanitizing properties desired and vary for germfree, specific pathogen-free and conventional animal facilities. Chemicals are routinely added to water to control bacteria in mouse facilities. Similarly, insecticides and pesticides are used to reduce the number of vermin in animal and feed rooms. Also, the bedding may contain chemicals (that is, cedrene and cedral in red cedar shavings). These and other chemicals in the vivarium may influence enzyme induction or inhibition, may result in increased or decreased toxicity, may alter the function or metabolism of organs and can thereby alter the outcome of animal experiments.
Binding of dihydrotestosterone to a nuclear-envelope fraction from the male rat liver.	Intact nuclear 'ghosts' containing small amounts of DNA were obtained from rat liver. Incubation of radiolabelled dihydrotestosterone with isolated nuclear-envelope fraction from male rat liver resulted in specific binding of the dihydrotestosterone to the membranes. Optimal binding occurred at 20 degrees C after 20h incubation. Storage for 2 weeks at -80 degrees C resulted in little loss of specific binding. Scatchard analysis revealed a class of binding sites with a KD of 23.2 nM. Pronase and heat treatment destroyed the binding site. Androgens and glucocorticoids competed for labelled dihydrotestosterone binding to the ghosts, whereas oestrogens did not compete. Castration 24h before preparation of ghosts did not alter the binding site, and a similar class of binding sites was identified on female rat liver nuclear envelopes.
A novel use of chitosan as a hypocholesterolemic agent in rats.	A series of experiments with male rats clearly demonstrated the hypocholesterolemic activity of dietary chitosan. On feeding a high cholesterol diet for 20 days, addition of 2 to 5% chitosan resulted in a significant reduction, by 25 to 30%, of plasma cholesterol without influencing food intake and growth. The concentration of liver cholesterol and triglyceride also decreased significantly. Plasma, but not liver cholesterol-lowering effect, was roughly comparable with that of cholestyramine. Chitosan at the 10% level further reduced plasma cholesterol, but depressed growth. Also, finer chitosan particles tended to restrain growth even at the 2% level. In rats fed a cholesterol-free diet containing 0.5% chitosan for 81 days, the concentration of serum cholesterol was the same with that of the corresponding control, but relatively more cholesterol existed as high-density lipiproteins and less as very low-density lipoproteins. Dietary chitosan increased fecal excretion of cholesterol, both exogenous and endogenous, while that of bile acids remained unchanged. There was no constipation or diarrhea. A proper supplementation of chitosan to the diet seemed to be effective in lowering plasma cholesterol.
Placental transfer of steroids: effect of binding to serum albumin and to placenta.	The transfer rates and placental retention of a series of steroids were measured using an in vitro perfusion system of an isolated cotyledon of human placenta. The steroids were added to the maternal inflow and rates of appearance in maternal and fetal outflows were measured, from which data were calculated the transfer rate and placental retention. With a low concentration of albumin (0.01 g/dl) in the maternal and fetal perfusates, transfer rates of diethylstilbestrol and ethynylestradiol were initially low, with considerable retention of the steroids within the placenta. Transfer rates increased with duration of perfusion. With high concentrations of albumin (1 g/dl), placental retention was greatly reduced and transfer rates very rapidly reached high levels. Albumin in the fetal circulation was the effective factor in increasing transfer rate; maternal albumin reduced it. The results with estrone and progesterone were qualitatively similar but not as striking, posssibly because of the large endogenous concentrations of these two hormones. Placental retention of dexamethasone, a more polar steroid that does not bind to placenta and binds poorly to albumin, was low and there was little difference between transfer from low- and high-protein perfusates.
Characteristics of human follicular fluid associated with successful conception after in vitro fertilization.	In 23 follicular fluids (FF) each yielding an oocyte known to result in a clinical pregnancy after in vitro fertilization, the following substances were measured: free and total concentrations of estradiol (E2), progesterone (P4), testosterone (T), androstenedione (A), immunoreactive inhibin, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1, alpha 1-antitrypsin, and placenta protein-14. In addition, FF volume and follicular diameter at the time of oocyte recovery were recorded. The characteristics of these pregnancy-associated follicles were compared with those of FF obtained from women who failed to conceive after embryo transfer. The FF were collected from 14 women who became pregnant and 14 women who did not conceive. The ultrashort GnRH agonist protocol was used for ovarian stimulation. Pregnancy was associated with follicles showing a significantly higher E2/T ratio than follicles in which the oocyte failed to implant or did not cleave in vitro (P < 0.01). In addition, FF volume and follicular diameter were significantly higher in pregnancy-associated follicles than in follicles in which the oocyte failed to implant or did not cleave in vitro (P < 0.05). The E2/A ratio was higher in pregnancy-associated follicles than in follicles in which the oocyte failed to implant, but the difference did not reach significance (0.05 < P < 0.1). No difference was found when pregnancy-associated follicles and follicles not associated with pregnancy were compared with respect to the levels of free and total E2, P4, T, A, immunoreactive inhibin, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-1, alpha 1-antitrypsin, placental protein-14, and the E2/P4 ratio. This study demonstrates a correlation between the pregnancy potential of oocytes and the ratio of E2 to androgens in FF. It confirms and extends the correlation between the E2/androgen ratio and follicular health and maturity. A low E2/androgen ratio seems to express early follicular atresia, which affects the viability of the enclosed oocyte negatively and limits the chances of a resulting preembryo to implant and establish itself as a pregnancy.
Steroid hormones. Membrane transporters of steroid hormones.	The discovery of a plasma membrane ABC protein that exports steroids in yeast highlights the possibility that similar membrane sorting systems in mammalian cells may modulate the access of steroids to their receptors.
Gonadal steroid hormones upregulate medial preoptic mu-opioid receptors in the rat.	The density of mu-opioid receptors is dependent upon the levels of gonadal steroid hormones in the medial preoptic area of ovariectomized female rats. Because the region containing these cyclical mu-opioid receptors is relatively small, autoradiographic analysis of the binding of a saturating concentration of mu-selective radioligand was used to determine whether hormone treatment affects maximal binding capacity of these receptors. The results reveal that gonadal steroid hormones upregulate mu-opioid receptor binding capacity specifically in the medial preoptic area 27 h later, without affecting binding in adjacent brain regions. This suggests that hormones induce a functional increase of medial preoptic area mu-opioid receptors which could serve to regulate reproductive activities.
Influence of metabolism in skin on dosimetry after topical exposure.	Metabolism of chemicals occurs in skin and therefore should be taken into account when one determines topical exposure dose. Skin metabolism is difficult to measure in vivo because biological specimens may also contain metabolites from other tissues. Metabolism in skin during percutaneous absorption can be studied with viable skin in flow-through diffusion cells. Several compounds metabolized by microsomal enzymes in skin (benzo[a]pyrene and 7-ethoxycoumarin) penetrated human and hairless guinea pig skin predominantly unmetabolized. However, compounds containing a primary amino group (p-aminobenzoic acid, benzocaine, and azo color reduction products) were substrates for acetyltransferase activity in skin and were substantially metabolized during absorption. A physiologically based pharmacokinetic model has been developed with an input equation, allowing modeling after topical exposure. Plasma concentrations in the hairless guinea pig were accurately predicted for the model compound, benzoic acid, from in vitro absorption, metabolism, and other pharmacokinetic parameters.
Effect of dietary fats on cholesterol metabolism and eicosanoid production in hamsters fed undigested fraction of soybean protein.	The undigested fraction of soybean protein (UDF) exerts a markedly greater hypocholesterolemic effect than soybean protein itself in rats. The present study was undertaken to confirm the effect in hamsters, a more appropriate animal model for human cholesterol metabolism. Hamsters were given diets containing UDF at a nitrogen level equivalent to the 20% casein diet. Dietary fats, at the 10% level, were perilla oil and safflower oil. There was apparently no increase in the serum and liver cholesterol levels in both groups of animals cholesterol-enriched diets that had been fed for 38 days. Fecal excretion of neutral and acidic steroid tended to be higher in the perilla oil group than in the safflower oil group. The perilla oil group significantly increased 20:5n-3 in liver phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine accompanying a decrease in 20: 4n-6. Such changes were not so evident in liver phosphatidylinositol. The production of leukotriene B4 and the concentration of prostaglandin E2 in the spleen were higher in the safflower oil group than in the perilla oil group. Thus, the hypocholesterolemic effect of the undigested fraction of soybean protein was apparently reproduced even in hamsters. Dietary fat-induced changes in lipid parameters in hamsters resembled those observed in rats.
Classical and novel forms of multidrug resistance and the physiological functions of P-glycoproteins in mammals.	In this paper, we review recent work on multidrug resistance (MDR) in Amsterdam. We have generated mice homozygous for a disruption of one of their P-glycoprotein (Pgp) genes. The mutations do not interfere with viability or fertility, showing that these Pgps have no indispensable role in early development or metabolism. Mice homozygous for a disruption of their mdr2 gene, however, develop liver disease and this appears to be due to their complete inability to secrete phospholipids into bile. This suggests that the mdr2 Pgp (and, by inference, its human MDR3 homologue) is essential for translocating phospholipids through the hepatocyte canalicular membrane in which this Pgp is located. These and other results show the importance of the genetic approach for studying drug metabolism. MDR is not only caused by increased activity of Pgps. When the human non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line SW-1573 is selected in vitro for low level doxorubicin resistance, the resistant variants are nearly always multidrug resistant, but this is not due to increased Pgp activity. Only when resistance is pushed to higher levels does activation of the MDR1 Pgp gene occur. This suggests that clinically relevant levels of drug resistance in some cells may be caused predominantly by non-Pgp-mediated drug resistance mechanisms. The protein responsible for MDR in the SW-1573 cells has not yet been identified and experiments are in progress to find the gene encoding it.
Safety of oral cyclodextrins: effects of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrins, cyclodextrin sulfates and cationic cyclodextrins on steroid balance in rats.	Derivatives of beta-cyclodextrin differing in the length of a hydroxyalkyl substituent (CH2CH2OH, CH2CHOHCH3, CH2CHOHCH2CH2CH2CH3) or in the electrical charge of the substituents (SO4-, CH2CHOHCH2N(CH3)3+) and hydroxypropyl derivatives (CH2CHOHCH3) of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-cyclodextrin were compared, individually and in mixtures, as solubilizers of cholesterol. The most effective solubilizer proved to be hydroxypropyl derivatives of beta-cyclodextrin; beta-cyclodextrin sulfate (SO4-) was practically devoid of solubilizing activity. Oral administration of these cyclodextrin derivatives, some of which are both nondegradable and effective complexation agents for cholesterol and bile acids, nevertheless did not affect the conversion of [14C]acetic acid to [14C]-cholesterol in rat under the same conditions when another bile acid complexation agent, cholestyramine, increased that conversion. Thus, complexation of cholesterol and of bile acids by cyclodextrin derivatives, which is a significant and well-defined phenomenon in vitro, seems to have limited importance in terms of excretion of cholesterol from the gastrointestinal tract. It is proposed that various untoward effects observed after chronic large oral doses of hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin are administered are not caused by an increased excretion of some vital lipophile or enzyme but are probably caused by solubilization and increased absorption of toxic contaminants of the ingested food.
Endocrine interactions: adrenal steroids and precursors.	Adult male rats (n = 48) were castrated and treated daily for 4 wk with adrenal steroids in the presence or absence of adjuvant testosterone. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), DHEA sulfate, and androstenedione (2 mg/kg body wt) were administered as cyclodextrin complexes to mimic the pharmacodynamics of the endogenous products. Although they are the substrates for testosterone synthesis in target tissues, supplements of adrenal steroids alone were unable to maintain integrity of sociosexual responses and androgen target tissues after castration. More surprising, groups administered adrenal precursor plus testosterone showed substantial suppression of the typical restoration of reproductive systems in castrates receiving androgen therapy. The adrenal steroids, however, were not functionally identical. Each steroid interacted with testosterone to leave its own distinctive "footprint" on androgen-sensitive systems. The conclusion is that the endogenous adrenal products are not simply passive precursors of testosterone. Adrenal steroids may serve as endocrine regulators of androgen bioavailability and bioactivity.
Growth factors and steroid hormone action in endometrial cancer.	There is compelling evidence that growth factors are involved in mediating estrogen action in target tissues. The role of growth factors in the development and progression of endometrial cancer is less clear. Steroid hormones can regulate the expression of the transforming growth factors and epidermal growth factor receptors in endometrial cancer cells in culture. It is also possible to demonstrate that these growth factors function in an autocrine fashion to regulate proliferation of endometrial cancer cells in culture. Constitutive expression or overexpression of such autocrine/paracrine factors and/or their receptors may be important in the growth progression of endometrial neoplasia. However, to date the evidence to support the hypothesis is limited.
Obesity-induced diabetes (diabesity) in C57BL/KsJ mice produces aberrant trans-regulation of sex steroid sulfotransferase genes.	The diabetes (db) gene is a recessive obesity mutation in the mouse capable of producing diabetes only through interaction with heretofore undefined modifiers in the genetic background of certain inbred strains. Here we identify the genetic map locations of androgen and estrogen sulfotransferase genes important in maintaining the balance of active sex steroids in the liver. The Std locus encoding dehydroepiandrosterone sulfotransferase was mapped to proximal Chromosome 7, and the Ste locus encoding estrogen sulfotransferase was mapped to Chromosome 5. The db mutation in the diabetes-susceptible C57BL/KsJ strain aberrantly regulated mRNA transcript levels from these two loci. Hepatic Ste mRNA transcripts were increased from undetectable levels in normal males and females to high levels in db/db mice of both sexes. An anomalous suppression of Std transcription was observed in db/db females, but not in normal females. These reciprocal changes in mRNA concentrations in mutant females were reflected by an induction of a high affinity estrogen sulfotransferase activity and a concomitant loss of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfotransferase activity. These db gene-elicited effects were specific for the sex steroid sulfotransferases since other potential sex steroid metabolizing enzymes (phenol sulfotransferase, sex steroid sulfohydrolase, and UDP-glucuronyltransferase) were unaffected. These aberrant changes would virilize hepatic metabolism in females by increasing the ratio of active androgens to estrogens. In human females, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus often develops when visceral obesity and hyperinsulinemia are associated with hyperandrogenization. This study demonstrates that background modifier genes interacting deleteriously with an obesity mutation are not necessarily defective alleles. Rather, some are functional genes whose regulation has been altered by pleiotropic effects of the obesity gene.
Dietary saturated fatty acids increase cholesterol synthesis and fecal steroid excretion in healthy men and women.	In a strictly controlled 6-week trial with 47 healthy volunteers we have determined the effect of replacement of polyunsaturated by saturated fatty acids on the fecal steroid excretion and on the rate of whole body cholesterol synthesis, as measured both by the sterol balance method and by the concentration of the cholesterol precursor lathosterol in serum. Subjects were fed mixed natural diets, of which the total fat content was kept constant at 45% energy. Consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids, mainly linoleic acid, was 21% energy for the first 3-week period (P:S ratio 1.9), and 5% of energy (P:S ratio 0.2) for the next 3-week period, or vice versa. Cholesterol intake as determined by analysis of duplicate diets was 41 mg MJ-1 (about 500 mg day-1) during both periods. Feces were collected for 5 days at the end of both periods. The steroid composition of the feces was not affected by the change of diets. The fecal excretion of neutral steroids was significantly higher on the low P:S high-saturated-fat (2.25 +/- 0.68 mmol day-1) than on the high P:S high-linoleic-acid diet (2.00 +/- 0.69 mmol day-1; P < 0.01). The excretion of bile acids was similar (0.77 +/- 0.40 and 0.79 +/- 0.41 mmol day-1, respectively). The cholesterol balance and the rate of cholesterol synthesis were higher during the low P:S (1.86 +/- 0.83 mmol day-1) than during the high P:S period (1.55 +/- 0.85 mmol day-1; P < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pharmacological and functional characterization of human mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor ligands.	We characterized the pharmacological profiles of the human mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor for 11 natural and synthetic steroids regarding binding pharmacology, intracellular localization of hormone-receptor complexes, and agonistic or antagonistic properties at the gene expression level. The sex steroid progesterone bound with an affinity (ki < 0.01 nM) even higher than that of aldosterone to the human mineralocorticoid receptor and effectively antagonized the effect of aldosterone via the human mineralocorticoid receptor in functional co-transfection assays. This indicates that progesterone has potent antimineralocorticoid properties, while its antiglucocorticoid effects were less pronounced. The partial agonistic activities of antihormones in this assay suggest a direct interaction of antihormone-receptor complexes with the response elements on the DNA. These results are supported by immunofluorescence studies, in which both unliganded human mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors were distributed throughout the cytoplasm and nucleus, whereas agonist- as well as antagonist-receptor complexes showed an exclusively nuclear localization. These results contribute to the understanding of antihormone pharmacology and increase our understanding of the role of human mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptors in physiological processes during different endocrine states.
Combined effects of dietary protein and fat on lipid metabolism in rats.	The combined effects of dietary protein (casein, whey protein, or soy protein) and fat (safflower oil, perilla seed oil, or their mixed oil; linoleic acid/alpha-linolenic acid = 5.0) on several lipid parameters were studied in rats. Serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels were lower in perilla seed oil groups irrespective of the protein sources. Liver triglyceride level, and fecal excretion of steroids were influenced mainly by protein sources, particularly isolated soy protein lowered liver triglyceride level, and increased the fecal steroid excretion. The fatty acid composition of liver phosphatidylcholine was influenced by dietary fat sources. The proportion of arachidonic acid was significantly lower in rats fed perilla seed oil than in those fed safflower oil or mixed oil, while the proportion of eicosapentaenoic acid was higher in rats fed perilla seed oil than in those fed safflower oil. Arachidonic acid/linoleic acid ratio was significantly lower in perilla seed oil groups, and tended to be higher in casein groups. Eicosapentaenoic acid/arachidonic acid ratio was influenced by both dietary protein and fat, and protein-fat interaction was observed. Eicosapentaenoic acid/arachidonic acid ratio was higher in perilla seed oil groups, and isolated soy protein in perilla seed oil groups lowered the ratio in comparison with other protein sources in perilla seed oil groups.
High-affinity binding of progesterone to the plasma membrane of Xenopus oocytes: characteristics of binding and hormonal and developmental control.	Progesterone induces maturation of the amphibian oocyte through its action on the plasma membrane. However, whether or not this action requires high-affinity binding to a specific receptor is unclear. In this study, the binding activity of progesterone was characterized in plasma membranes from whole ovaries or defolliculated oocytes of Xenopus laevis. Membrane-bound, radiolabeled progesterone was isolated by filtration of membrane suspensions and quantified by liquid scintillation. The association of progesterone to membrane preparations reached equilibrium within 15 min. Progesterone binding activity was directly proportional to the sample concentration, was significantly reduced by trypsin digestion, and was pH-dependent and temperature-sensitive. Also, binding activity was observed in membrane preparations from whole ovaries and defolliculated oocytes but not in those from somatic cells, indicating that progesterone binding is restricted to the oocyte membrane. Scatchard analysis indicated a single class of high-affinity (average KD, 10(-9) M), low-capacity (average concentration, 10(-12) mol/mg protein) binding sites for progesterone in all oocyte membrane preparations tested. Progesterone binding activity was also detected in preparations from albino frog ovaries, indicating that the binding activity is not an artifact of melanin contamination. Competition studies showed the following order of affinities: progesterone > pregnenolone > 17 alpha, 20 beta, 21-trihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one > 11-deoxycorticosterone > 17 alpha, 20 beta-dihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one > 11-deoxycortisol > estradiol > R5020 > corticosterone > aldosterone > cortisol > androstenedione > ouabain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Physical characterization of plasmid pMQV10 from a steroid biotransforming strain of Micrococcus.	The presence of a single plasmid 8.5 kb in size has been demonstrated in a cholesterol biotransforming strain of Micrococcus. A detailed physical map of the plasmid has been constructed using various restriction enzymes. Streptomycin resistance has been localized on a 1.8-kb fragment of pMQV10.
Steroid treatment, accumulation, and antagonism of P-glycoprotein in multidrug-resistant cells.	According to multiple reports, progesterone is not transported by P-glycoprotein (Pgp), which mediates multidrug resistance through active drug efflux. However, progesterone has been shown to block Pgp- mediated efflux of other drugs. To extend these observations and to examine the effect of modulating Pgp phosphorylation, the accumulation of progesterone and 14 other steroids in untreated and calphostin C-treated multidrug-resistant human colon carcinoma SW620 Ad300 cells was compared to the accumulation in parental SW620 cells. However, the accumlation of more hydrophilic steroids was reduced by as much as 50%. Progesterone and progesterone-like compounds, however were potent inhibitors of Pgp-mediated vinblastine efflux; increased antagonism correlated with increased steroid hydrophobicity. Treatment with calphostin C, a PKC inhibitor which decreases Pgp phosphorylation, increased progesterone efflux, modulated Pgp antagonism by steroids, and inhibited photoaffinity labeling of Pgp by progesterone. These results extend previous observations that Pgp can mediate the transport of, and be antagonized by, a variety of steroids and that these properties vary with both steroid's hydrophobicity and the phosphorylated state of Pgp.
Oxidation of linear terpenes and squalene variants by Arthrobacter sp.	Cells of Arthrobacter sp. that had been isolated from soil were used to study oxidation of some linear terpenes and squalene variants. The cells oxidized geraniol, nerol, and farnesol to the corresponding aldehydes, with partial conversion of the geometrical isomerism of the alpha,beta-double bond. The squalene variant, squalene-2,3-oxide, was cleaved to 9,10-epoxygeranylacetone and geranylacetone. Squalene-2,3-22,23-dioxide was cleaved to 9,10-epoxygeranylacetone. These products were optically active, and their stereochemistry and optical purity were determined.
Binding capacities of two immunomodulatory lectins, carrier-immobilized glycoligands and steroid hormones in lung cancer and the concentration of nitrite/nitrate in pleural effusions.	Combined analysis of the binding properties of inflammatory and tumor cells in pleural effusion, and tumor imprints for various carrier-immobilized types of ligands and lectins, and of a biochemical feature of the effusions is performed to extend the characterization of these cells and their activity. In detail, the binding of Viscum album agglutinin (VAA), Urtica dioica agglutinin (UDA), and of carrier-immobilized N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc), lysoganglioside GM1, estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, and hydrocortisone to native specimens consisting of 46 tumor imprints from surgically treated patients with lung cancer and 74 smears of pleural effusion (PE) cells from cancer or non-cancer patients was studied using fluorescence microscopy with Texas red-labeled streptavidin. Among the tested ligands, VAA was found to provide the most effective staining of cells (60-78.1% of positive cases). When compared with inflammatory cells from PE, cancer cells were seen to bind more frequently only two ligands, namely UDA and estradiol. Significant (P < 0.001) difference between patients with bronchial carcinoma and non-cancer patients were found, when the content of NO2-/NO3- in PE fluids was measured. Whereas the level of NO2-/NO3- in PE of non-cancer patients was 12.6 +/- 10.7 microM (n = 12), it was 37.7 +/- 19.4 microM (n = 14) in cancer patients without pleural metastases and 37.5 +/- 16.0 microM (n = 26) in patients with pleural metastases. The level of NO2-/NO3- in PE appeared to correlate with extent of staining with GM1 and GlcNAc: in non-cancer patient groups it was significantly higher (P = 0.032) for negative subjects than those binding the ligand GlcNAc, whereas in the patient group with adenocarcinoma it was significantly lower (P = 0.032) for patients without binding capacities for GlcNAc and GM1. The results obtained suggest that the combined analysis of increased levels of NO2-/NO3- in PE and of glycohistochemical properties of cancer and inflammatory cells may be useful in exploring the interrelationship of functionally important cellular characteristics.
Steroid metabolism in theca externa cells from preovulatory follicles of domestic hen (Gallus domesticus).	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of theca externa cells from preovulatory follicles of the domestic hen to metabolize tritiated steroid precursors. Theca externa cells were isolated from ovarian preovulatory follicles at three different developmental stages; F1 (35 mm), F3 (26 mm), and F5 (13 mm). Tritiated pregnenolone (P5), progesterone (P4), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), androstenedione (A4), and testosterone (T) were employed as precursors and their metabolic products were evaluated after separation by thin-layer chromatography. The major metabolite of P5 by theca externa cells was 5-pregnen-3 beta, 20 beta-diol (F5, 47%; F3, 39%; and F1, 24%), but minimal quantities of P4 were detected. Progesterone metabolism yielded mainly 4-pregnen-20 beta-ol-3-one (F5, 52%; F3, 34%; and F1, 49%). When DHEA was used as precursor, A4 was produced in higher amounts (F5, 29%; F3, 23%; and F1, 11%) than estrone (E1) (F5, 1.5%; F3, 0.9%; and F1, 0.4%). Androstenedione was mainly transformed into E1 (F5, 11.9%; F3, 12.2%; and F1, 0.2%) but lower quantities of T and 17 beta-estradiol (E2) were found. Testosterone was actively transformed into A4 (F5, 50%; F3, 50%; and F1, 30%), but a low transformation to E2 (F5, 1.9%; F3, 1.7%; and F1, 1.4%) and E1 (F5, 2%; F3, 1%; and F1, 0.5%) was found. These results show that theca externa cells from preovulatory follicles of hen have enzymatic activities of 20 beta-reductase (from P5 and P4), 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/5-4 isomerase (from P5 and DHEA), 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (from A4 and T), and aromatase (from A4 and T). Furthermore, the enzyme activities decrease with follicular maturation, except for 20 beta-reductase which is constant. These data support the concept that theca externa cells have the ability to synthesize different steroids than reported in theca externa cells. In addition, since theca externa cells did not show the capacity to produce androgens but these steroids were aromatized to estrogens by these cells, it was suggested that the interaction between theca interna cells and theca externa cells occurs in vivo, thus supporting the multicellular theory for estrogen production.
Excretion of free and conjugated steroids in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss): evidence for branchial excretion of the maturation-inducing steroid, 17,20 beta-dihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one.	The goal of this study was to identify excretory routes of three main steroids produced by sexually mature male and female rainbow trout: 17,20 beta-dihydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one (17,20 beta-P), sulfated 17,20 beta-P (17,20 beta-P-S), and testosterone glucuronide (TG). Spermiating males or maturing trout were cannulated via the dorsal aorta and urinary bladder and injected with tritiated steroids. Blood, water, and urine were sampled over the next 12 hr when the fish were killed and bile was collected. The identities of the excreted products were determined by anion-exchange chromatography, reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, enzyme hydrolysis, acid solvolysis, microchemical modification, and thin-layer chromatography. Following the injection of tritiated 17,20 beta-P, 25% of the radioactivity rapidly appeared unmodified in the water; 15% appeared slowly in the urine, mainly as 17,20 beta-P-S; and 40% was recovered in the bile, mainly as 17,20 beta-P-glucuronide. 17,20 beta-P was shown to be released into the water via the gills. Over the 12-hr sampling period, 20% of the 17,20 beta-P released into the water was taken up again by the fish (also branchially). A mathematical analysis showed that 40% of the 17,20 beta-P would have been released into the water in the absence of uptake. Following the injection of tritiated 17,20 beta-P-S, 63% appeared very rapidly, in an unmodified form, in the urine, and 15% was recovered in the bile. Following the injection of tritiated TG, 9% appeared slowly, mainly untransformed, in the urine, and 59% was recovered in the bile. These results show that the three types of steroids are released into the water by three different routes: free steroids, gills; sulfated steroids, urine; and glucuronidated steroids, bile.
Chick embryo liver microsomal steroid hydroxylations: induction by dexamethasone, phenobarbital, and glutethimide and inactivation following the in ovo administration of porphyrinogenic compounds.	Metabolites of [4-(14)C]androstenedione (AD) and [4-(14)C]progesterone (PG) were separated and quantitated following incubation with hepatic microsomes from chick embryos. PG 2 alpha-hydroxylase and AD 7 alpha-hydroxylase, which are diagnostic markers in rat liver for cytochrome P450 (P450) 2C11 and 2A1/2, respectively, were not identified in chick embryo liver. PG 6 beta-hydroxylase and AD 6 beta-hydroxylase, diagnostic markers for P450 3A1/2 activity in rat liver, were identified in chick embryo liver, and we were able to show that radiolabeled 6 beta-hydroxyprogesterone and 6 beta-hydroxyandrostenedione, the metabolites of PG and AD 6 beta-hydroxylase, respectively, were homogeneous and identical with authentic standards. Dexamethasone, phenobarbital, and glutethimide were found to be significant inducers of PG and AD 6 beta-hydroxylases in chick embryo liver. The in ovo administration of the porphyrinogenic compounds 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-ethylpyridine (4-ethyl DDC) and 3-[2-(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)-thioethyl]-4-methylsydnone (TTMS) caused inactivation of chick embryo hepatic PG and AD 6 beta-hydroxylases. Therefore, we suggest that PG and AD 6 beta-hydroxylases may serve as diagnostic markers for a P450 3A-like isozyme in the chick embryo, and that this isozyme is one of the targets for inactivation by 4-ethyl DDC and TTMS.
Sex hormone-binding globulin: gene organization and structure/function analyses.	Human plasma sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and testicular androgen-binding protein (ABP) are homodimeric glycoproteins with a single steroid-binding site. They share the same primary structure and differ only with respect to the types of oligosaccharides attached to them. Both are products of a single gene (Shbg), the expression of which has been detected in several tissues including liver, testis, placenta, brain and endometrium. The transcript encoding SHBG in hepatocytes and ABP in Sertoli cells is identical. Several other transcripts result from differential exon utilization in sex steroid-responsive tissues, but their biological significance remains obscure. Wild-type and mutant forms of human SHBG have been produced in mammalian cells and Escherichia coli, and have provided insight into the structural and functional properties of SHBG and its related gene products.
Differential expression patterns of Wnt genes in the murine female reproductive tract during development and the estrous cycle.	The murine female reproductive tract differentiates during postnatal development. This process of cytodifferentiation and morphogenesis is dependent upon specific mesenchymal-epithelial interactions as well as circulating steroid hormones (Cunha, G.R., 1976. Int. Rev. Cytol. 47, 137-194; Pavlova, A. et al., 1994. Development 120, 335-346). Members of the Wnt family of signaling molecules have been recently identified in this system (Pavlova, A. et al., 1994. Development 120, 335-346; Bui, T.D. et al., 1997. Br. J. Cancer 75, 1131-1136; Miller, C., Sassoon, D.A., 1998. Development, in press). We describe the expression patterns of Wnt genes in the developing and adult female reproductive tract. Additionally, we note that changes in the levels of expression occur during the estrous cycle. Wnt gene expression patterns are regulated by the presence of epithelium in tissue graft experiments, suggesting that Wnt genes may indeed play roles in the mesenchymal-epithelial interactions critical for female reproductive tract development and function.
Photoaffinity labelling of the human mineralocorticoid receptor with steroids having a reactive group at position 3, 18 or 21.	The ability of a glucocorticoid (triamcinolone acetonide: TA) and three progesterone derivatives with photoreactive groups at different positions (promegestone: R5020; 18-oxo-18-vinylprogesterone: 18OVP; 21-diazoprogesterone: 21DP) to bind covalently to the human mineralocorticoid receptor (hMR) expressed in Sf9 insect cells was assessed. Sedimentation gradient analysis and exchange assays with aldosterone showed that [3H]TA, a partial mineralocorticoid agonist, and [3H]R5020, a pure antimineralocorticoid, were covalently bound to hMR after UV irradiation, with a labelling efficiency of approx. 3-5%. UV irradiation did not alter the heterooligomeric structure of the hMR, since the irradiated [3H]TA- and [3H]R5020-hMR complexes sedimented at approx. 9-10 S, as did the non-irradiated complexes. Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed a band labelled by [3H]TA or [3H]R5020, having a molecular mass of 120 kDa. This band was not detected in the presence of an excess of the corresponding unlabelled steroid or when the cytosol was recovered from non-infected Sf9 cells. Electrophoresis of a truncated hMR (hMRDelta(1-351)) photolabelled with [3H]TA revealed a 80 kDa band, compatible with the molecular mass of the truncated hMR. Limited chymotrypsin proteolysis of the [3H]TA photolabelled hMR generated a 30 kDa fragment covalently associated with [3H]TA. As the 30 kDa fragment generated by chymotrypsin has been shown to encompass the entire ligand-binding domain of the hMR (B. Couette, J. Fagart, S. Jalaguier, M. Lombs, A. Souque, M.E. Rafestin-Oblin, Biochem. J. 315 (1996) 421-427), the present experiments provide evidence that [3H]TA is covalently bound to the ligand binding domain of the hMR. Exchange assays with [3H]A also revealed that unlabelled 18OVP and 21DP, two mineralocorticoid agonists bearing photoreactive groups at skeleton positions crucial for the ligand-MR interaction, are covalently bound to hMR with an approx. 30-35% labelling efficiency.
Functional role of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids and their production in astrocytes: approaches for gene transfer and therapy (review).	The list of functions attributed to astrocytes in the brain is ever increasing. These cells contain cytochrome P450 enzymes that have recently demonstrated a number of exciting roles besides detoxification. The P450 monooxygenases can covert the substrate arachidonic acid to epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), metabolites that mediate vasodilation, mitogenesis, platelet aggregation, Ca2+ signaling and steroidogenesis. Integration of other physiological pathways present in astrocytes with P450 mediated EET formation has generated a number of interesting hypotheses to yield deeper insight into the role of astrocytes in the brain. In order to test these hypotheses as well as to enhance the benefits of EETs in astrocytes, we have used viral-mediated gene transfer and overexpression of one cytochrome P450 monooxygenase, 2C11, to engineer astrocytes for gene manipulation and possible gene therapy. This review outlines evidence for the presence of EETs in astrocytes, the function of EETs and the progress made with viral vectors expressing epoxygenase for gene manipulation in astrocytes.
