Toxic metabolic syndrome associated with HAART.	Acquired fat redistribution, that is, peripheral fat loss often accompanied by central fat accumulation in patients with HIV infection is the most common form of lipodystrophy in man. Approximately 30 - 50% of HIV-infected individuals after > or = 12 months on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) may encounter the HIV-associated lipodystrophy syndrome (HALS), which attenuates patient compliance to this treatment. HALS is characterised by impaired glucose and lipid metabolism and other risk factors for cardiovascular disease. This review depicts the metabolic abnormalities associated with HAART by describing the key cell and organ systems that are involved, emphasising the role of insulin resistance. An opinion on the remedies available to treat the metabolic abnormalities and phenotype of HALS is provided.
Granuphilin is activated by SREBP-1c and involved in impaired insulin secretion in diabetic mice.	Granuphilin is a crucial component of the docking machinery of insulin-containing vesicles to the plasma membrane. Here, we show that the granuphilin promoter is a target of SREBP-1c, a transcription factor that controls fatty acid synthesis, and MafA, a beta cell differentiation factor. Potassium-stimulated insulin secretion (KSIS) was suppressed in islets with adenoviral-mediated overexpression of granuphilin and enhanced in islets with knockdown of granuphilin (in which granuphilin had been knocked down). SREBP-1c and granuphilin were activated in islets from beta cell-specific SREBP-1c transgenic mice, as well as in several diabetic mouse models and normal islets treated with palmitate, accompanied by a corresponding reduction in insulin secretion. Knockdown- or knockout-mediated ablation of granuphilin or SREBP-1c restored KSIS in these islets. Collectively, our data provide evidence that activation of the SREBP-1c/granuphilin pathway is a potential mechanism for impaired insulin secretion in diabetes, contributing to beta cell lipotoxicity.
Chromatin remodeling complex interacts with ADD1/SREBP1c to mediate insulin-dependent regulation of gene expression.	Insulin plays a critical role in whole-body energy homeostasis by regulating lipid and glucose metabolism. In fat and liver tissues, ADD1/SREBP1c is a key transcription factor to mediate insulin-dependent regulation of gene expression. Although transcriptional and proteolytic activation of ADD1/SREBP1c has been studied intensively, the mechanism by which insulin regulates expression of its target genes with ADD1/SREBP1c at the chromatin level is unclear. Here, we reveal that SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling factors interact with the ADD1/SREBP1c and actively regulate insulin-dependent gene expression. Insulin enhanced recruitment of SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling factors to its target gene promoters with concomitant changes in the chromatin structures as well as gene expression. Furthermore, in vivo overexpression of BAF155/SRG3, a component of the SWI/SNF complex, substantially promoted insulin target gene expression and insulin sensitivity. Taken together, our results suggest that the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes confer not only insulin-dependent gene expression but also insulin sensitivity in vivo via interaction with ADD1/SREBP1c.
Isomer specific effects of Conjugated Linoleic Acid on macrophage ABCG1 transcription by a SREBP-1c dependent mechanism.	Conjugated Linoleic Acids (CLAs) are minor components of the diet with many reported biological activities. Our aim was to examine the function of the single trans-9,trans-11 (t9,t11), cis-9,trans-11 (c9,t11), and trans-10,cis-12 (t10,c12) isomers on gene expression in human macrophages. Therefore we incubated in vitro MCSF differentiated monocyte derived macrophages from three healthy donors and THP-1 macrophages with these CLA-isomers and analyzed whole genome transcripts with Affymetrix U133 Plus 2.0 DNA-microarrays and real-time RT-PCR. We found that t9,t11-CLA, but not c9,t11- and t10,c12-CLA activates target genes of SREBP, SREBP-1, and ABCG1. Gene reporter assays with deletion constructs of the ABCG1 regulatory region and cotransfections with SREBP-1a and SREBP-1c expression plasmids in RAW 264.7 macrophages showed that t9,t11-CLA activates ABCG1 via SREBP-1c. These results indicate that positional and geometrical isomers of CLAs have specific effects on gene expression of human macrophages and that t9,t11-CLA activates ABCG1 by a SREBP-1c-dependent mechanism.
Up-regulation of fatty acid synthase promoter by hepatitis C virus core protein: genotype-3a core has a stronger effect than genotype-1b core.	Hepatitis C virus genotype-3a (HCV-3a) is directly linked to steatosis development. We studied the effects of HCV-3a core protein on the promoter activity of fatty acid synthase (FAS), a major enzyme involved in de novo lipid synthesis.
Transcription of the mitochondrial citrate carrier gene: role of SREBP-1, upregulation by insulin and downregulation by PUFA.	In this study we investigated the transcriptional role of the sterol regulatory element (SRE) present in the promoter of the mitochondrial citrate carrier (CIC). We show that wild-type (but not mutated) CIC SRE cloned in front of the luciferase promoter confers transcriptional activation of the gene reporter. We also demonstrate that insulin activates, and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) inhibit, the gene reporter activity driven by the CIC promoter containing wild-type (but not mutated) SRE. Finally, both insulin treatment and overexpression of SRE binding protein (SREBP-1) increase the CIC transcript and protein levels, whereas PUFA have an opposite effect. These results show that SRE/SREBP-1 play a role in the transcriptional regulation of CIC by insulin and PUFA.
Transgenic mice expressing nuclear sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c in adipose tissue exhibit liver histology similar to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is one of the life-threatening hepatic diseases associated with insulin resistance. Here we report that nuclear sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (nSREBP-1c) transgenic mice, an inherited lipodystrophic model with severe insulin resistance, spontaneously develop steatohepatitis. The animal had marked fatty liver accompanied by hyperglycemia, hypoleptinemia, and hypoadiponectinemia. Liver histology similar to NASH, that is, mononuclear cell infiltration, pericellular fibrosis, ballooning degeneration, and Mallory hyaline body formation were seen in the livers from transgenic mice 20 weeks or older. In contrast, no liver histologic abnormalities were noted in wild-type mice aged 30 weeks. Immunoreactive 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine was observed in the nuclei of livers from transgenic mice, suggesting that in addition to insulin resistance, oxidative stress may be involved in the development of the NASH-like lesion. Thus, the nSREBP-1c transgenic mouse may serve as a unique model of spontaneously occurring NASH.
A pathogenic mechanism leading to partial lipodistrophy and prospects for pharmacological treatment of insulin resistance syndrome.	The understanding of a common complex phenotype such as insulin resistance can be favoured by evaluation of monogenic syndromes. Clinical definition, pathogenesis, and therapeutical strategies for the insulin resistance syndrome can thus be improved by the characterization at the molecular genetic level of monogenic forms of lipodystrophies. Here we report experimental evidence on the pathogenic mechanism underlying insulin resistance in a rare form of laminopathy, due to mutation of the LMNA gene coding for lamin A/C, the Dunnigan-type familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD). The defect, consisting in the intranuclear accumulation of mutant unprocessed precursors of lamin A, reduces the amount of the DNA-bound adipocyte transcription factor sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) and lowers the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPARgamma) expression, causing the impairment of pre-adipocyte differentiation. The treatment with the PPARgamma ligand troglitazone (TDZ) is able to rescue the adipogenic program. Since FPLD recapitulates the essential metabolic abnormalities of the common insulin resistance syndrome, the beneficial effects of TDZ on monogenic lipodystrophies might provide a clue as to the future treatment strategies also for the common syndrome of insulin resistance.
Proto-oncogene FBI-1 (Pokemon) and SREBP-1 synergistically activate transcription of fatty-acid synthase gene (FASN).	FBI-1 (Pokemon/ZBTB7A) is a proto-oncogenic transcription factor of the BTB/POZ (bric-à-brac, tramtrack, and broad complex and pox virus zinc finger) domain family. Recent evidence suggested that FBI-1 might be involved in adipogenic gene expression. Coincidentally, expression of FBI-1 and fatty-acid synthase (FASN) genes are often increased in cancer and immortalized cells. Both FBI-1 and FASN are important in cancer cell proliferation. SREBP-1 is a major regulator of many adipogenic genes, and FBI-1 and SREBP-1 (sterol-responsive element (SRE)-binding protein 1) interact with each other directly via their DNA binding domains. FBI-1 enhanced the transcriptional activation of SREBP-1 on responsive promoters, pGL2-6x(SRE)-Luc and FASN gene. FBI-1 and SREBP-1 synergistically activate transcription of the FASN gene by acting on the proximal GC-box and SRE/E-box. FBI-1, Sp1, and SREBP-1 can bind to all three SRE, GC-box, and SRE/E-box. Binding competition among the three transcription factors on the GC-box and SRE/E-box appears important in the transcription regulation. FBI-1 is apparently changing the binding pattern of Sp1 and SREBP-1 on the two elements in the presence of induced SREBP-1 and drives more Sp1 binding to the proximal promoter with less of an effect on SREBP-1 binding. The changes induced by FBI-1 appear critical in the synergistic transcription activation. The molecular mechanism revealed provides insight into how proto-oncogene FBI-1 may attack the cellular regulatory mechanism of FASN gene expression to provide more phospholipid membrane components needed for rapid cancer cell proliferation.
Ethanol and liver: recent advances in the mechanisms of ethanol-induced hepatosteatosis.	Ethanol-induced fatty liver is a worldwide health problem without effective therapeutic methods. The underlying mechanisms are extremely complex and not fully understood. The hepatosteatosis caused by ethanol can be attributed to many factors, including the changes of the redox condition, transportation impairment of the synthesized lipid, inhibition of fatty acid oxidation, and the enhancement of the lipogenesis. Recent studies focus on the reduced oxidation of fatty acid and the enhancement of the do novo lipogenesis, and several factors are sequentially revealed. Two important nuclear transcription factors, peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor α (PPARα) and sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 (SREBP-1), and the lipid metabolism-associated enzymes regulated by the two molecules, are shown to be involved in ethanol-induced steatosis. The AMP-dependent protein kinase, adiponectin, and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) may mediate the modulation of ethanol on PPARα and SREBP-1. In addition, a number of studies demonstrate that plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is also involved in ethanol- induced fatty liver, and its effects may be associated with the TNF-α production. Furthermore, the role of CYP2E1 has also been investigated. Some studies showed that CYP2E1 played a critical role in the development of alcoholic fatty liver, which was denied by other reports. As such, the exact role of CYP2E1 needs to be further studied.
Dynamic and differential regulation of proteins that coat lipid droplets in fatty liver dystrophic mice.	Lipid droplet proteins (LDPs) coat the surface of triglyceride-rich lipid droplets and regulate their formation and lipolysis. We profiled hepatic LDP expression in fatty liver dystrophic (fld) mice, a unique model of neonatal hepatic steatosis that predictably resolves between postnatal day 14 (P14) and P17. Western blotting revealed that perilipin-2/ADRP and perilipin-5/OXPAT were markedly increased in steatotic fld liver but returned to normal by P17. However, the changes in perilipin-2 and perilipin-5 protein content in fld mice were exaggerated compared with relatively modest increases in corresponding mRNAs encoding these proteins, a phenomenon likely mediated by increased protein stability. Conversely, cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector (Cide) family genes were strongly induced at the level of mRNA expression in steatotic fld mouse liver. Surprisingly, levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, which is known to regulate Cide expression, were unchanged in fld mice. However, sterol-regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) was activated in fld liver and CideA was revealed as a new direct target gene of SREBP-1. In summary, LDP content is markedly increased in liver of fld mice. However, whereas perilipin-2 and perilipin-5 levels are primarily regulated posttranslationally, Cide family mRNA expression is induced, suggesting that these families of LDP are controlled at different regulatory checkpoints.
Coculture with BJ fibroblast cells inhibits the adipogenesis and lipogenesis in 3T3-L1 cells.	Mouse or human fibroblasts are commonly used as feeder cells to prevent differentiation in stem or primary cell culture. In the present study, we addressed whether fibroblasts can affect the differentiation of adipocytes. We found that the differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes was strongly suppressed when the cells were cocultured with human fibroblast (BJ) cells. BrdU incorporation analysis indicated that mitotic clonal expansion, an early event required for 3T3-L1 cell adipogenesis, was not affected by BJ cells. The 3T3-L1 cell expression levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma2, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha), sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c, and Krüppel-like factor 15, but not those of C/EBPbeta or C/EBPdelta, were decreased by coculture with BJ cells. When mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes were cocultured with BJ cells, their lipid contents were significantly reduced, with decreased fatty acid synthase expression and increased phosphorylated form of acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1. Our data indicate that coculture with BJ fibroblast cells inhibits the adipogenesis of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes and decreases the lipogenesis of mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes.
DHA regulates lipogenesis and lipolysis genes in mice adipose and liver.	Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is one kind of ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and plays an important role in lipid metabolism. In this research, mice were daily intragastric administrated with DHA for 3 weeks. Subcutaneous adipose tissue and liver were separated every week, RNA was extracted. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPARγ), Sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c), Fatty acid synthetase (FAS), Hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) and triglyceride hydrolase TGH genes expression were detected by quantitative PCR. Data showed that, DHA up-regulated PPARγ, HSL and TGH in adipose tissue, but it had no effect on SREBP-1c and FAS expression. However, in liver there were some differences in regulating these genes. PPARγ, SREBP-1c and FAS were down-regulated, HSL was up-regulated and TGH had no change. These results indicated that DHA played different regulating roles in lipid metabolism in different tissues. In adipose tissue, DHA increased the expression of lipogenesis and lipolysis genes. In liver lipogenesis genes were decreased, but lipolysis genes were increased by DHA. In conclusion, DHA could reduce body fat mass through regulating lipogenesis and lipolysis genes.
Transcriptional control mechanisms of genes of lipid and fatty acid metabolism in the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) established cell line, SHK-1.	The regulatory control mechanisms of lipid and fatty acid metabolism were investigated in Atlantic salmon. We identified sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) genes in salmon and characterised their response, and the response of potential target and other regulatory genes including liver X receptor (LXR), to cholesterol and long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA) in the salmon established cell line, SHK-1. Two cDNAs for SREBPs homologous to mammalian SREBP-1 and SREBP-2 were characterised. We identified three groups of genes whose expression responded differently to the treatments. One group of genes, including cholesterol biosynthetic genes, showed increased expression in response to lipid depletion but supplementary cholesterol or LC-PUFA had no further effect. The expression of a second group of genes belonging to fatty acid biosynthetic pathways, included fatty acid synthase, Δ6 and Δ5 fatty acyl desaturases, also increased after lipid depletion but this was negated by cholesterol or by LC-PUFA supplementation. The expression of a third group of genes including acyl-CoA oxidase, HMG-CoA reductase and Elovl5 elongase was increased by cholesterol treatment but was not affected by lipid depletion or by LC-PUFA. This same pattern of expression was also shown by liver X receptor (LXR), indicating that acyl-CoA oxidase, HMG-CoA reductase and Elovl5 are possible direct targets of LXR. This suggests that salmon Elovl5 may be regulated differently from mammalian Elovl5, which is an indirect target of LXR, responding to LXR-dependent increases in SREBP-1.
Liver X receptor (LXR) mediates negative regulation of mouse and human Th17 differentiation.	Th17 cells are a subset of CD4+ T cells with an important role in clearing certain bacterial and fungal pathogens. However, they have also been implicated in autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Exposure of naive CD4+ T cells to IL-6 and TGF-β leads to Th17 cell differentiation through a process in which many proteins have been implicated. We report here that ectopic expression of liver X receptor (LXR) inhibits Th17 polarization of mouse CD4+ T cells, while LXR deficiency promotes Th17 differentiation in vitro. LXR activation in mice ameliorated disease in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model of multiple sclerosis, whereas LXR deficiency exacerbated disease. Further analysis revealed that Srebp-1, which is encoded by an LXR target gene, mediated the suppression of Th17 differentiation by binding to the E-box element on the Il17 promoter, physically interacting with aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) and inhibiting Ahr-controlled Il17 transcription. The putative active site (PAS) domain of Ahr and the N-terminal acidic region of Srebp-1 were essential for this interaction. Additional analyses suggested that similar LXR-dependent mechanisms were operational during human Th17 differentiation in vitro. This study reports what we believe to be a novel signaling pathway underlying LXR-mediated regulation of Th17 cell differentiation and autoimmunity.
Glutamine stimulates the gene expression and processing of sterol regulatory element binding proteins, thereby increasing the expression of their target genes.	Here we show that the larger the amount of glutamine added to the medium, the more the expression of genes related to lipid homeostasis is promoted by the activation of sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) at the transcriptional and post-translational levels in human hepatoma HepG2 cells. Glutamine increases the mRNA levels of several SREBP targets, including SREBP-2. The gene expression of SREBP-1a, a predominant form of SREBP-1 in most cultured cells and a target of the general transcription factor Sp1, is significantly augmented by glutamine via an increased binding of Sp1 to the SREBP-1a promoter. In contrast, the increased expression of SREBP targets including SREBP-2 is due to stimulation of the processing of SREBP proteins by glutamine. It is also shown that glutamine accelerates SREBP processing through increased transport of the SREBP/SREBP cleavage-activating protein complex from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus. The processing of activating transcription factor 6 is activated by the same proteases as SREBPs in the Golgi in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress and is not induced by glutamine. Taken together, these results clearly demonstrate that glutamine brings about not only the induction of SREBP-1a transcription but also the stimulation of SREBP processing, thereby facilitating the gene expression of SREBP targets in cultured cells.
Molecular mechanisms of estrogen receptors' suppression of lipogenesis in pancreatic β-cells.	The gonadal steroid, 17β-estradiol (E2), suppresses pancreatic islet fatty acid and glycerolipid synthesis and prevents β-cell failure in rodent models of type 2 diabetes. β-Cell estrogen receptors (ER) mediate these actions by suppressing the expression and enzymatic activity of fatty acid synthase (FAS). Here, we explored the mechanism of FAS suppression. We show that E2, and pharmacological agonists for ERα, ERβ, and the G protein-coupled ER, suppress mRNA and protein expression of the transcriptional regulators of FAS, namely, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP1c) and carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) in insulin-secreting INS-1 cells. ER suppress SREBP1c and ChREBP mRNA and protein expression via an extranuclear localization. Using two mouse lines with pancreas-specific null deletion of either ERα or the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), we show that ERα activation in vivo reduces SREBP1c and ChREBP mRNA expression via a direct islet action involving STAT3 activation. The master regulators of lipogenesis, liver X receptor (LXR) α and β, transcriptionally up-regulate SREBP1c and ChREBP. We find that activation of ERα, ERβ, and G protein-coupled ER suppresses LXR's mRNA expression in INS-1 cells. We also observe that activation of ERα in mouse islets in vivo suppresses LXR mRNA in a STAT3-dependent manner. Finally, we show that E2 also activates and uses AMP-activated protein kinase in INS-1 cells to suppress SREBP1c protein expression. This study identifies extranuclear ER pathways involving STAT3 and AMP-activated protein kinase in the genetic control of lipogenesis with therapeutic implications to protect β-cells in type 2 diabetes.
Estrogen improved metabolic syndrome through down-regulation of VEGF and HIF-1α to inhibit hypoxia of periaortic and intra-abdominal fat in ovariectomized female rats.	Metabolic syndrome (MBS), a cluster of metabolic abnormalities and visceral fat accumulation, increases cardiovascular risks in postmenopausal women. In addition to visceral fat, perivascular adipose tissue has been recently found to play an important role in vascular pathophysiology. Hence, the present study investigates the effects of estrogen on both intra-abdominal fat (visceral fat) and periaortic fat (perivascular fat) accumulation as well as hypoxia in ovariectomized female rats. Female rats were divided into sham operation, ovariectomy and ovariectomy with 17β-estradiol supplementation groups. Twelve weeks later, we found that estrogen improved MBS via reducing body weight gain, the weight of periaortic and intra-abdominal fat, hepatic triglyceride, and total serum cholesterol levels. Estrogen also increased insulin sensitivity through restoring glucose and serum leptin levels. For periaortic fat, western blot showed estrogen inhibited hypoxia by reducing the levels of VEGF and HIF-1α, which is consistent with the results from immunohistochemical staining. The correlation analysis indicated that perivascular fat had a positive correlation with body weight, intra-abdominal fat or serum total cholesterol, but a negative correlation with insulin sensitivity index. For intra-abdominal fat, real-time fluorescent RT-PCR showed estrogen improved fat dysfunction via reducing the levels of relative leptin, MCP-1 but increasing adiponectin mRNA. Estrogen reduced the levels of VEGF and HIF-1α to inhibit hypoxia but restored the levels of PPARγ and Srebp-1c, which are important for lipid capacity function of intra-abdominal fat. These results demonstrated estrogen improved MBS through down-regulating VEGF and HIF-1α to inhibit hypoxia of periaortic and intra-abdominal fat in ovariectomized female rats.
Identification and functional characterization of human glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 1 gene promoters.	Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 1 (GPAT1) acts as a rate limiting enzyme in triacylglycerol and phospholipid synthesis in mammals. GPAT1 regulates hepatic lipid accumulation associated with metabolic disorders. Here we have identified two transcriptional initiation sites and two promoters (promoter I and II) required for expression of the human GPAT1 (hGPAT1) gene. Promoter I regulates transcription of three alternative hGPAT1 mRNA variants, hGPAT1-V1, V2, and V3, while promoter II induces expression of a fourth variant, hGPAT1-V4. RT-PCR analysis and luciferase reporter assays revealed that promoter II acts in lipogenic tissues like the liver (and liver-derived HepG2 cells), whereas promoter I is differentially regulated and also acts in non-liver HeLa cells. Among liver-enriched transcription factors, HNF4α and C/EBPα slightly activated hGPAT1 promoter I, while factors including HNF1α altered promoter II activity. The lipogenic transcription factor SREBP1c greatly increased promoter II activity in HepG2 cells. The use of various truncated or mutated fragments of promoter II revealed that one sterol regulatory element-like motif and one inverted CCAAT box on promoter II contributed to the SREBP1c response. These cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors can be potential targets for manipulation of hepatic GPAT1 levels in humans.
Taurine is a liver X receptor-α ligand and activates transcription of key genes in the reverse cholesterol transport without inducing hepatic lipogenesis.	Taurine, which is abundant in seafood, has antiatherogenic activities in both animals and humans; however, its molecular target has been elusive. We examined whether taurine could activate liver X receptor-α (LXR-α), a critical transcription factor in the regulation of reverse cholesterol transport in macrophages.
Analysis of the protein network of cholesterol homeostasis in different brain regions: an age and sex dependent perspective.	Although a great knowledge about the patho-physiological roles of cholesterol metabolism perturbation in several organs has been reached, scarce information is available on the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis in the brain where this lipid is involved in the maintenance of several of neuronal processes. Currently, no study is available in literature dealing how and if sex and age may modulate the major proteins involved in the regulatory network of cholesterol levels in different brain regions. Here, we investigated the behavior of 3-hydroxy 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMGR) and low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLr) in adult (3-month-old) and aged (12-month-old) male and female rats. The analyses were performed in four different brain regions: cortex, brain stem, hippocampus, and cerebellum which represent brain areas characterized by different neuronal cell types, metabolism, cytoarchitecture and white matter composition. The results show that in hippocampus HMGR is lower (30%) in adult female rats than in age-matched males. Differences in LDLr expression are also observable in old females with respect to age-matched males: the protein levels increase (40%) in hippocampus and decrease (20%) in cortex, displaying different mechanisms of regulation. The mechanism underlying the observed modifications are ascribable to Insig-1 and SREBP-1 modulation. The obtained data demonstrate that age- and sex-related differences in cholesterol homeostasis maintenance exist among brain regions, such as the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex, important for learning, memory and affection. Some of these differences could be at the root of marked gender disparities observed in clinical disease incidence, manifestation, and prognosis.
Effects of short- and long-chain fatty acids on the expression of stearoyl-CoA desaturase and other lipogenic genes in bovine mammary epithelial cells.	Stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) in the bovine mammary gland introduces a cis-double bond at the Δ9 position in a wide range of fatty acids (FA). Several long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) inhibit expression of SCD, but information on the effect of short-chain fatty acids on mammary SCD expression is scarce. We used a bovine mammary cell line (MAC-T) to assess the effect of acetic acid (Ac) and β-hydroxybutyric acid (BHBA) in comparison with the effect of various long-chain fatty acids on the mRNA expression of the lipogenic enzymes SCD, acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACACA), fatty acid synthase (FASN) and their associated gene regulatory proteins sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1), insulin-induced gene 1 protein (INSIG1) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARA)and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARD) by quantitative real-time PCR. MAC-T cells were treated for 12 h without FA additions (CON) or with either 5 mM Ac, 5 mM BHBA, a combination of 5 mM Ac + 5 mM BHBA, 100 μM C16:0, 100 μM C18:0, 100 μM C18:1 cis-9, 100 μM C18:1 trans-11, 100 μM C18:2 cis-9,12 or 100 μM C18:3 cis-9,12,15. Compared with control, mRNA expression of SCD1 was increased by Ac (+61%) and reduced by C18:1 cis-9 (-61%), C18:2 cis-9,12 (-84%) and C18:3 cis-9,12,15 (-88%). In contrast to native bovine mammary gland tissue, MAC-T cells did not express SCD5. Expression of ACACA was increased by Ac (+44%) and reduced by C18:2 cis-9,12 (-48%) and C18:3 cis-9,12,15 (-49%). Compared with control, FASN expression was not significantly affected by the treatments. The mRNA level of SREBF1 was not affected by Ac or BHBA, but was reduced by C18:1 cis-9 (-44%), C18:1 trans-11 (-42%), C18:2 cis-9,12 (-62%) and C18:3 cis-9,12,15 (-68%) compared with control. Expression of INSIG1 was downregulated by C18:0 (-37%), C18:1 cis-9 (-63%), C18:1 trans-11 (-53%), C18:2 cis-9,12 (-81%) and C18:3 cis-9,12,15 (-91%). Both PPARA and PPARD expression were not significantly affected by the treatments. Our results show that Ac upregulated mRNA expression of SCD1 and ACACA in MAC-T cells. The opposite effect of the PUFA C18:2 cis-9,12 and C18:3 cis-9,12,15 on the these genes and the failure of Ac to mimic the PUFA-inhibited SREBF1 and INSIG1 mRNA expression, suggest that Ac can stimulate mammary lipogenesis via a transcriptional regulatory mechanism different from PUFA.
Adaptive changes of the Insig1/SREBP1/SCD1 set point help adipose tissue to cope with increased storage demands of obesity.	The epidemic of obesity imposes unprecedented challenges on human adipose tissue (WAT) storage capacity that may benefit from adaptive mechanisms to maintain adipocyte functionality. Here, we demonstrate that changes in the regulatory feedback set point control of Insig1/SREBP1 represent an adaptive response that preserves WAT lipid homeostasis in obese and insulin-resistant states. In our experiments, we show that Insig1 mRNA expression decreases in WAT from mice with obesity-associated insulin resistance and from morbidly obese humans and in in vitro models of adipocyte insulin resistance. Insig1 downregulation is part of an adaptive response that promotes the maintenance of SREBP1 maturation and facilitates lipogenesis and availability of appropriate levels of fatty acid unsaturation, partially compensating the antilipogenic effect associated with insulin resistance. We describe for the first time the existence of this adaptive mechanism in WAT, which involves Insig1/SREBP1 and preserves the degree of lipid unsaturation under conditions of obesity-induced insulin resistance. These adaptive mechanisms contribute to maintain lipid desaturation through preferential SCD1 regulation and facilitate fat storage in WAT, despite on-going metabolic stress. 
Cardiotrophin-1 eliminates hepatic steatosis in obese mice by mechanisms involving AMPK activation.	Cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1) is a hepatoprotective cytokine that modulates fat and glucose metabolism in muscle and adipose tissue. Here we analyzed the changes in hepatic fat stores induced by recombinant CT-1 (rCT-1) and its therapeutic potential in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
Myostatin induces insulin resistance via Casitas B-lineage lymphoma b (Cblb)-mediated degradation of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) protein in response to high calorie diet intake.	To date a plethora of evidence has clearly demonstrated that continued high calorie intake leads to insulin resistance and type-2 diabetes with or without obesity. However, the necessary signals that initiate insulin resistance during high calorie intake remain largely unknown. Our results here show that in response to a regimen of high fat or high glucose diets, Mstn levels were induced in muscle and liver of mice. High glucose- or fat-mediated induction of Mstn was controlled at the level of transcription, as highly conserved carbohydrate response and sterol-responsive (E-box) elements were present in the Mstn promoter and were revealed to be critical for ChREBP (carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein) or SREBP1c (sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c) regulation of Mstn expression. Further molecular analysis suggested that the increased Mstn levels (due to high glucose or fatty acid loading) resulted in increased expression of Cblb in a Smad3-dependent manner. Casitas B-lineage lymphoma b (Cblb) is an ubiquitin E3 ligase that has been shown to specifically degrade insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) protein. Consistent with this, our results revealed that elevated Mstn levels specifically up-regulated Cblb, resulting in enhanced ubiquitin proteasome-mediated degradation of IRS1. In addition, over expression or knock down of Cblb had a major impact on IRS1 and pAkt levels in the presence or absence of insulin. Collectively, these observations strongly suggest that increased glucose levels and high fat diet, both, result in increased circulatory Mstn levels. The increased Mstn in turn is a potent inducer of insulin resistance by degrading IRS1 protein via the E3 ligase, Cblb, in a Smad3-dependent manner.
14-Deoxyandrographolide alleviates ethanol-induced hepatosteatosis through stimulation of AMP-activated protein kinase activity in rats.	Andrographis paniculata (AP) is a traditional medicinal plant of Ayurveda. It grows widely in Asia and is prescribed in the treatment of liver diseases. Here we have investigated the beneficial role of 14-deoxyandrographolide (14-DAG), a bioactive diterpenoid from AP, against alcoholic steatosis in rats. 14-DAG was extracted from aerial parts (leaves and stems) of AP. Rats were fed with ethanol for 8 weeks. Animals were treated with 14-DAG during the last 4 weeks of ethanol treatment. In vitro studies were undertaken in a human hepatocellular liver carcinoma cell line culture. Hepatosteatosis was assessed from histopathological studies of liver sections. Acetyl-CoA, malonyl-CoA, and triglyceride contents were determined using commercially available kits. Fatty acid synthesis was evaluated from incorporation of 1-(14)C acetate. Regulation of fatty acid oxidation and lipogenesis were monitored with immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation studies. Ethanol exposure led to hepatotoxicity, as evident from the marked enhancement in the levels of AST and ALT. The values decreased almost to control levels in response to 14-DAG treatment. Results showed that ethanol feeding induced deactivation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) that led to enhanced lipid synthesis and decreased fatty acid oxidation, culminating in hepatic fat accumulation. Treatment with 14-DAG activated AMPK through induction of cyclic AMP-protein kinase A pathway. Activation of AMPK was followed by down-regulation of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, and fatty acid synthase, leading to suppression of lipogenesis. This was associated with up-regulation of sirtuin 1 and depletion of malonyl-CoA, in favor of increased fatty acid oxidation. 14-DAG controlled ethanol-induced hepatosteatosis by interfering with dysregulation of lipid metabolism. In conclusion, our results indicated that 14-DAG was capable of preventing the development of fatty liver through AMPK-mediated regulation of lipid metabolism. This finding supported the hepatoprotective role of 14-DAG, which might serve as a therapeutic option to alleviate hepatosteatosis in chronic alcoholism. 
High-fructose diet leads to visceral adiposity and hypothalamic leptin resistance in male rats--do glucocorticoids play a role?	Fructose overconsumption has been involved in the genesis and progression of the metabolic syndrome. Hypothalamus and adipose tissue, major organs for control of food intake and energy metabolism, play crucial roles in metabolic homeostasis. We hypothesized that glucocorticoid signaling mediates the effects of a fructose-enriched diet on visceral adiposity by acting on neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the hypothalamus and altering adipogenic transcription factors in the visceral adipose tissue. We analyzed the effects of 9-week consumption of 60% fructose solution on dyslipidemia, insulin and leptin sensitivity, and adipose tissue histology in male Wistar rats. Glucocorticoid signaling was assessed in both hypothalamus and visceral adipose tissue, while the levels of peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1 (SREBP-1) and lipin-1, together with the levels of their target genes expression, were analyzed in the visceral adipose tissue. The results showed that long-term consumption of highly concentrated liquid fructose led to the development of visceral adiposity, elevated triglycerides and hypothalamic leptin resistance accompanied by stimulated glucocorticoid signaling and NPY mRNA elevation. Results from adipose tissue implied that fructose consumption shifted the balance between glucocorticoid receptor and adipogenic transcriptional factors (PPARγ, SREBP-1 and lipin-1) in favor of adipogenesis judged by distinctly separated populations of small adipocytes observed in this tissue. In summary, we propose that high-fructose-diet-induced alterations of glucocorticoid signaling in both hypothalamus and adipose tissue result in enhanced adipogenesis, possibly serving as an adaptation to energy excess in order to limit deposition of fat in nonadipose tissues. 
Influence of fat/carbohydrate ratio on progression of fatty liver disease and on development of osteopenia in male rats fed alcohol via total enteral nutrition (TEN).	Alcohol abuse is associated with the development of fatty liver disease and also with significant osteopenia in both genders. In this study, we examined ethanol-induced pathology in response to diets with differing fat/carbohydrate ratios. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed intragastrically with isocaloric liquid diets. Dietary fat content was either 5% (high carbohydrate, HC) or 45% (high fat, HF), with or without ethanol (12-13 g/kg/day). After 14, 28, or 65 days, livers were harvested and analyzed. In addition, bone morphology was analyzed after 65 days. HC rats gained more weight and had larger fat pads than HF rats with or without ethanol. Steatosis developed in HC + ethanol (HC + EtOH) compared to HF + ethanol (HF + EtOH) rats, accompanied by increased fatty acid (FA) synthesis and increased nuclear carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) (p < 0.05), but in the absence of effects on hepatic silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog (SIRT-1) or nuclear sterol regulatory binding element protein (SREBP-1c). Ethanol reduced serum leptin (p < 0.05) but not adiponectin. Over time, HC rats developed fatty liver independent of ethanol. FA degradation was significantly elevated by ethanol in both HC and HF groups (p < 0.05). HF + EtOH rats had increased oxidative stress from 28 days, increased necrosis compared to HF controls and higher expression of cytochromes P450, CYP2E1, and CYP4A1 compared to HC + EtOH rats (p < 0.05). In contrast, HC + EtOH rats had no significant increase in oxidative stress until day 65 with no observed increase in necrosis. Unlike liver pathology, no dietary differences were observed on ethanol-induced osteopenia in HC compared to HF groups. These data demonstrate that interactions between diet composition and alcohol are complex, dependent on the length of exposure, and are an important influence in development of fatty liver injury. Importantly, it appears that diet composition does not affect alcohol-associated skeletal toxicity. 
