Effects of S-petasin on cyclic AMP production and enzyme activity of P450scc in rat zona fasciculata-reticularis cells.	Petasites hybridus is used in Chinese herbal medicine. S-petasin is a bioactive compound isolated from leaves or roots of P. hybridus, which has been used to relieve gastrointestinal pain, lung disease, and spasms of urogenital tract. We have demonstrated that S-petasin inhibited corticosterone release from rat zona fasiculata-reticularis cells. However, the mechanism and molecular effects of S-petasin on zona fasiculata-reticularis cells are still unclear. This study explored the effects of S-petasin on cellular adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) production, the functions of steroidogenic enzymes including cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc), 11beta-hydroxylase, and the expression levels of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein or P450scc. In this experiment, zona fasciculata-reticularis cells were incubated with S-petasin in the presence or absence of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), 8-bromo-adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP), forskolin, 25-OH-cholesterol, deoxycorticosterone at 37 degrees C for 0.5, 1 or 3 h. The media were used to measure the concentration of corticosterone or pregnenolone by radioimmunoassay. The cells were used to measure the content of cAMP by radioimmunoassay and extracted protein for Western blot or messenger RNA (mRNA) for reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. Our data demonstrated that (1) S-petasin inhibits ACTH- or forskolin-stimulated cellular cAMP production, (2) S-petasin increased the Michaelis constants of P450scc and 11beta-hydroxylase and (3) S-petasin decreased the expression levels and mRNA of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein. In summary, the actions of S-petasin mediate the inhibition of cAMP formation, decrease the activities of key enzymes P450scc and 11beta-hydroxylase, and reduce mRNA of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein and expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein.
Zone-specific expression of aldosterone synthase cytochrome P-450 and cytochrome P-45011 beta in rat adrenal cortex: histochemical basis for the functional zonation.	Zonal distribution of aldosterone synthase cytochrome P-450 and cytochrome P-45011 beta in rat adrenocortex was investigated immunochemically using specific antibodies to these enzymes. Localization of aldosterone synthase cytochrome P-450 (cytochrome P-450aldo), a recently identified enzyme that converts deoxycorticosterone to aldosterone in rat adrenocortex was strictly confined to two or three outermost cell layers in the zona glomerulosa. In contrast, cytochrome P-45011 beta, which forms corticosterone, but not aldosterone, from deoxycorticosterone, was localized in the zona fasciculata-reticularis and not in the zona glomerulosa. Neither enzyme was detected in the medulla or the capsule. The functional zonation of adrenocortex with respect to aldosterone and corticosterone syntheses is, thus, ascribable to the localization of cytochromes P-450aldo and P-45011 beta in the respective zones. When rats were maintained under Na-depleted conditions for 10 days, the zona glomerulosa cells containing cytochrome P-450aldo proliferated to 10-15 layers, the thickness of which was 5-7-fold that in the nonstimulated rats. Proliferation of the cytochrome P-450aldo-positive cells into the zona fasciculata-reticularis was also observed along with arterial walls. Under these conditions, no significant change in the distribution of cytochrome P-45011 beta was noted. These results indicate that the angiotensin-II stimuli, which had been elicited by the low Na treatment, promoted proliferation of the glomerulosa cells, resulting in increased expression of cytochrome P-450aldo in rat adrenocortex.
Activation of pregnane X receptor disrupts glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid homeostasis.	The pregnane X receptor (PXR) was isolated as a xenobiotic receptor that regulates responses to various xenobiotic agents. In this study, we show that PXR plays an important endobiotic role in adrenal steroid homeostasis. Activation of PXR by genetic (transgene) or pharmacological (ligand, such as rifampicin) markedly increased plasma concentrations of corticosterone and aldosterone, the respective primary glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid in rodents. The increased levels of corticosterone and aldosterone were associated with activation of adrenal steroidogenic enzymes, including cytochrome P450 (CYP)11a1, CYP11b1, CYP11b2, and 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. The PXR-activating transgenic mice also exhibited hypertrophy of the adrenal cortex, loss of glucocorticoid circadian rhythm, and lack of glucocorticoid responses to psychogenic stress. Interestingly, the transgenic mice had normal pituitary secretion of ACTH and the corticosterone-suppressing effect of dexamethasone was intact, suggesting a functional hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis despite a severe disruption of adrenal steroid homeostasis. The ACTH-independent hypercortisolism in the PXR-activating transgenic mice is reminiscent of the pseudo-Cushing's syndrome in patients. The glucocorticoid effect appears to be PXR specific, as the activation of constitutive androstane receptor in transgenic mice had little effect. We propose that PXR is a potential endocrine disrupting factor that may have broad implications in steroid homeostasis and drug-hormone interactions.
Regulation of rat adrenal messenger RNA and protein levels for cytochrome P-450s and adrenodoxin by dietary sodium depletion or potassium intake.	The effect of low sodium and high potassium intake on rat adrenal zona glomerulosa (ZG) and zona fasciculata-reticularis (ZFR) were studied during a 7-day period, by analyzing mRNA and protein levels of various enzymes involved in aldosterone synthesis. In ZG significant increases in cytochrome P-450scc, P-450c21, P-450(11 beta), adrenodoxin mRNA and protein levels were observed after 2 days with either diet, and at day 7 these levels were further increased. The largest mRNA induction was observed at day 7 in sodium-depleted rats for P-450(11 beta), with a 4-fold increase, followed by 2.7- and 2.0-fold increases for P-450scc and P-450c21, respectively. A pattern similar to those of P-450scc and P-450(11 beta) was observed for adrenodoxin with a 2.1-fold increase after 7 days of Na+ restriction. In K(+)-loaded rats mRNA levels for P-450scc, P-450(11 beta), P-450c21, and adrenodoxin were also increased by 2.2-, 2.1-, 1.5-, and 1.9-fold respectively. Protein levels of these enzymes were also measured in ZG and showed increases similar to those of their respective mRNAs for both treatments. On the other hand, mRNA levels of P-450scc, P-450(11 beta), P-450c21, and adrenodoxin in ZFR were found significantly lower than in ZG, although they were slightly increased for both treated groups of rats as compared with controls. In addition, ZFR protein levels of corresponding enzymes did not fluctuate significantly under both ionic regimens. In conclusion, both low sodium and high potassium intakes act primarily on ZG. Their action on plasma aldosterone seems to be mediated by increasing both mRNA and protein and levels of steroidogenic enzymes, especially at the early step (cytochrome P-450scc) and even more at the late steps (cytochrome P-450(11 beta]. In addition, a close relationship appears to exist between the two mitochondrial P-450s and their electron donor adrenodoxin, since their mRNA and protein levels were similarly enhanced for both diets used.
Microbial transformation of steroids--VII. Hydroxylation of progesterone by extracts of Phycomyces blakesleeanus.	Post mitochondrial supernatants (S-12 extracts) were prepared from Phycomyces blakesleeanus by grinding washed and frozen mycelial cakes in fine sand and extracting the paste produced with buffer containing Tris-HCl pH 7.8 (0.1 M), EDTA (0.01 M), dithiothreitol (5 mM) and glycerol (10% v/v). The S-12 extracts, obtained in this way, reproducibly hydroxylated progesterone, producing 7 alpha- and 15 beta-hydroxyprogesterone the major products of whole-cell transformation. Cell-free progesterone hydroxylation was found to be approximately linearly dependent on extract concentration, to require reduced NADP (partly replaceable by NADH), and to be dependent on progesterone (apparent Km calculated to be 4 mM). K+ and Mg2+ were found not to be required. Maximum progesterone hydroxylation occurred after 2 h at pH 7.8 and at 24 degrees C. Using optimum conditions S-12 extracts were capable of hydroxylating between 5 and 15% of added progesterone (0.2 mM). Hydroxylation was found to be partially inhibited by carbon monoxide (ca 40%) and almost completely inhibited by azoles, ketoconazole and diconazole. The NADPH and molecular oxygen requirements were replaceable by NaIO4. These findings strongly suggest that hydroxylation was being catalyzed by cytochrome P-450. This was confirmed by preparing progesterone-hydroxylating microsomes and Triton N-101-solubilized microsome extracts, and by obtaining a dithionite-reduced carbon monoxide-difference absorption spectrum peak at 455 nm in the solubilized microsome extracts.
Cytosolic and mitochondrial surface factor-independent import of a synthetic peptide into mitochondria.	We chemically synthesized a peptide, 11 beta-45, which was composed of 45 amino acid residues including the whole extension peptide and some of the mature portion of bovine cytochrome P-450(11 beta) precursor. 11 beta-45 was imported into mitochondria in vitro depending on the mitochondrial membrane potential, but its import did not require extramitochondrial ATP. Although cytosolic protein factors in the high speed supernatant of reticulocyte lysate are known to stimulate the import of various precursor proteins into mitochondria, the import of 11 beta-45 was not stimulated by cytosolic factors in reticulocyte lysate. The import of the peptide did not require mitochondrial surface protein components because its import was not affected by trypsin treatment of mitochondria. On the other hand, trypsin treatment of mitoplasts resulted in a great reduction in the import of the peptide, indicating that 11 beta-45 interacts during the import process with some protein components located inside mitochondria. These observations indicated that the peptide 11 beta-45 was imported via the potential-dependent pathway as in the case of precursor proteins, but skipped the interactions with cytosolic factors and mitochondrial surface components normally required for the import of precursor proteins.
11β-hydroxyandrostenedione returns to the steroid arena: biosynthesis, metabolism and function.	The biological significance of 11β-hydroxyandrostenedione (11OHA4) has eluded researchers for the past six decades. It is now known that 11OHA4 is biosynthesized in the androgen arm of the adrenal steroidogenesis pathway and subsequently metabolized by steroidogenic enzymes in vitro, serving as precursor to recognized and novel androgenic steroids. These in vitro findings extend beyond the adrenal, suggesting that 11OHA4 could be metabolized in steroid-responsive peripheral tissues, as is the case for androgen precursor metabolites of adrenal origin. The significance thereof becomes apparent when considering that the metabolism of 11OHA4 in LNCaP androgen dependent prostate cancer cells yields androgenic steroid metabolites. It is thus possible that 11OHA4 may be metabolized to yield ligands for steroid receptors in not only the prostate but also in other steroid-responsive tissues. Future investigations of 11OHA4 may therefore characterize it as a vital steroid with far-reaching physiological consequences. An overview of the research on 11OHA4 since its identification in 1953 will be presented, with specific focus on the most recent works that have advanced our understanding of its biological role, thereby underscoring its relevance in health and disease. 
Hydroxylation of steroids with nonpolar side chains with 11 alpha-hydroxylase of Rhizopus nigricans.	Steroids with nonpolar side chains with 2, 4 and 8 C atoms were used as substrates for the 11 alpha-hydroxylase of Rhizopus nigricans. Their bioconversion was compared to that of progesterone, which was found to be far the best substrate giving the highest total bioconversion. 3-keto-4-ene steroids with nonpolar side chains were converted to their hydroxylated products in a small yield or not at all. The absence of an oxygen function in the side chain did not affect the regio-specificity of the hydroxylation, but resulted in a much lower total bioconversion. The strong effect of the oxygen function and of the length of the side chain on hydroxylation with the 11 alpha-hydroxylase of Rhizopus nigricans was demonstrated.
Androgen hydroxylation catalysed by a cell line (SD1) that stably expresses rat hepatic cytochrome P-450 PB-4 (IIB1).	Androgen hydroxylation catalysed by Chinese hamster fibroblast SD1 cells, which stably express cytochrome P-450 form PB-4, the rat P450IIB1 gene product, was assessed and compared to that catalysed by purified cytochrome P-450 PB-4 isolated from rat liver. SD1 cell homogenates catalysed the NADPH-dependent hydroxylation of androstenedione and testosterone with a regioselectivity very similar to that purified by P-450 PB-4 (16 beta-hydroxylation/16 alpha-hydroxylation = 6.0-6.8 for androstenedione; 16 beta/16 alpha = 0.9 for testosterone). Homogenates prepared from the parental cell line V79, which does not express detectable levels of P-450 PB-4 or any other cytochrome P-450, exhibited no androgen 16 beta- or 16 alpha-hydroxylase activity. The hydroxylase activities catalysed by the SD1 cell homogenate were selectively and quantitatively inhibited (greater than 90%) by a monoclonal antibody to P-450 PB-4 at a level of antibody (40 pmol of antibody binding sites/mg of SD1 homogenate) that closely corresponds to the P-450 PB-4 content of the cells (48 pmol of PB-4/mg of SD1 homogenate). Fractionation of cell homogenates into cytosol and microsomes revealed that the P-450 PB-4-mediated activities are associated with the membrane fraction. Although the P-450 PB-4-specific content of the SD1 microsomes was 15% of that present in phenobarbital-induced rat liver microsomes, the P-450 PB-4-dependent androstenedione 16 beta-hydroxylase activity of the SD1 membrane fraction was only 2-3% of that present in the liver microsomes. This activity could be stimulated several-fold, however, by supplementation of SD1 microsomes with purified rat NADPH P-450 reductase. These studies establish that a single P-450 gene product (IIB1) can account for the hydroxylation of androgen substrates at multiple sites, and suggest that SD1 cells can be used to assess the catalytic specificity of P-450 PB-4 with other substrates as well.
Stable adrenocorticotropin-stimulated 11-beta-hydroxylase activity but loss of age-related changes in patients with hypercortisolemia.	Eleven-beta-hydroxylase activity was measured before and after acute adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) stimulation in 28 controls, 25 depressed Dexamethasone Suppression Test (DST) suppressors, 13 DST nonsuppressor patients, and 8 patients with Cushing's syndrome to investigate changes in states of cortisol hypersecretion. Eleven-beta-hydroxylase activity was equivalent among groups both before and after stimulation. Such 11-beta-hydroxylase stability, however, resulted in higher cortisol and 11-deoxycortisol poststimulation levels in both depressed DST nonsuppressors and Cushing's patients than in controls. Basal 11-beta-hydroxylase activity is positively correlated and 11-deoxycortisol is negatively correlated with age in controls and DST suppressors, but not in the patients tested with evidence of cortisol hypersecretion. These findings suggest that in vivo basal 11-beta-hydroxylase activity rises gradually with age, but does not rise after acute administration of exogenous ACTH. The age relationship is lost in states of cortisol hypersecretion, but the lack of response to acute exogenous ACTH is not affected.
Phosphorylation of bovine adrenodoxin. Structural study and enzymatic activity.	Adrenodoxin is an iron-sulfur protein which functions as a carrier of reducing equivalents in steroid hydroxylation reactions catalyzed by specific cytochromes P-450 in steroidogenic tissues such as adrenal cortex. Purified bovine adrenocortical adrenodoxin was shown to be selectively phosphorylated upon incubation with purified cAMP-dependent protein kinase, whereas other protein kinases were ineffective. The phosphorylation reaction was completed within 45 min at 30 degrees C and resulted in the optimal incorporation of 1 mol phosphate/mol adrenodoxin. Apoadrenodoxin, lacking the iron-sulfur cluster, was also phosphorylated under similar conditions. An apparent Km of 55 microM with a Vmax of 0.3 pmol 32P incorporated min-1 mg adrenodoxin-1 was calculated. Phosphorylation resulted in a striking change in several molecular properties of adrenodoxin, such as electrophoretic behavior and hydroxyapatite affinity, thus providing the possibility of clearly separating phosphorylated from unphosphorylated adrenodoxin. In addition, phosphoadrenodoxin became refractory to mild trypsin degradation, whereas this was not the case with apoadrenodoxin. The phosphorylated site of adrenodoxin was identified as a serine residue; study of peptide products resulting from CNBr and proteolytic cleavages of phosphoadrenodoxin suggested that Ser-88 was the target of the phosphorylation reaction. The influence of phosphorylation upon adrenodoxin activity was examined using cholesterol side-chain cleavage and 11 beta-hydroxylase (11 beta) systems, reconstituted from purified components. Phosphorylation of adrenodoxin resulted in an average twofold decrease in its Km values for the two specific cytochromes P-450 involved. This effect was paralleled by a positive relationship between the degree of adrenodoxin phosphorylation and its ability to support the overall activity of reconstituted side-chain cleavage and 11 beta-hydroxylase systems. Although it remains to be examined whether adrenodoxin is phosphorylated in the intact cell, the present observations suggest that it represents a potential target in the hormonal regulation of the adrenocortical differentiated functions, especially by stimulatory agents acting through a cyclic-AMP-dependent mechanism, such as adrenocorticotropin.
Production of 19-oic-11-deoxycorticosterone from 19-oxo-11-deoxycorticosterone by cytochrome P-450(11)beta and nonenzymatic production of 19-nor-11-deoxycorticosterone from 19-oic-11-deoxycorticosterone.	19-Oxo-11-deoxycorticosterone was incubated with a cytochrome P-450(11)beta-reconstituted system, and the metabolites were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography(HPLC). The main product found after chromatography was collected and treated with diazomethane. HPLC and 1H-NMR analysis of the methylated derivative indicated that it was 19-oic-11-deoxycorticosterone methyl ester. When 19-oic-11-deoxycorticosterone was stored at -20 degrees C for 1 month, it was spontaneously converted to other steroids. Structural analysis of the main degradation product indicated that it was 19-nor-11-deoxycorticosterone. These results suggest that the conversion of 19-oxo-11-deoxycorticosterone to 19-oic-11-deoxycorticosterone occurs through the P-450(11)beta-catalyzed reaction, and that the 19-oic-11-deoxycorticosterone thus formed is nonenzymatically converted into 19-nor-11-deoxycorticosterone.
Chronic angiotensin treatment stimulates the growth and the 11 beta-hydroxylase activity of rat zona fasciculata cells.	Long-term angiotensin-II (AII) administration provokes a time-dependent rise in the volume of zona fasciculata cells and in the plasma concentration of corticosterone in rats treated with dexamethasone and maintenance doses of ACTH. The AII-induced zona fasciculata cell hypertrophy is coupled with comparable increases in the surface area per cell of the mitochondrial cristae and in the activity per cell of 11 beta-hydroxylase. These findings suggest that AII enhances the growth and the steroidogenic capacity of rat adrenal zona fasciculata.
Long-term effects of ACTH on rat adrenocortical cells: a coupled stereological and enzymological study.	The effects of a long-term ACTH administration on the morphology of rat adrenocortical cells and the activity of some enzymes of steroid synthesis contained in them were examined by stereological and biochemical techniques. It was demonstrated that ACTH provokes time-dependent increases in the surface area per cell of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial cristae, which are tightly parallelled by enhancements in the activity per cell of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and 11 beta-hydroxylase, respectively.
Metabolism of 11-deoxycortisol by cytochrome P450(11 beta): identification of reaction products by 1H-NMR and LC/MS-APCI method.	A hitherto-unidentified steroid produced in the reaction mixture of 11-deoxycortisol with bovine cytochrome P450(11 beta) reconstitution system was purified by repeated HPLCs, and subjected to 1H-NMR analysis. The result suggested that the new metabolite was 19-oxo-11-deoxycortisol. This was further confirmed by a new analytical technique using LC/MS equipped with atmospheric pressure chemical ion (APCI)-analyzer.
Comparative characteristics of steroidogenesis and its biorhythm in the hyperfunctioning adrenal cortex]	The paper summarizes the results od several studies of the daily rhythms of steroid hormones in patients with ACTH-dependent Itsenko-Cushing's disease (CD) and congenital adrenal hyperplasia (late-onset forms) (CAH). Normal daily rhythms of adrenal C21- and C19-steroids and ACTH were observed in 23.5% of CD patients. CAH patients had the marked daily rhythms of adrenal androgens and testosterone which were typical of those of cortisole. The ratios of steroid hormones to its precursors provide evidence for enhanced activities of 17-, 11 beta- and 18-hydroxylases in CD patients and normal enzymatic activities in CAH patients, whereas 21-hydroxylase being an exception.
Reconstitution of the steroidogenic pathway from cholesterol to aldosterone in liposome membranes.	A steroidogenic pathway from cholesterol to aldosterone was reconstituted in liposome membranes using cytochromes P-450scc, P-450C21 and P-450(11) beta, and 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/ delta 5-delta 4 isomerase (3 beta HSD/I) with their electron transfer systems. All of the enzymes were purified from bovine adrenocortical mitochondria and microsomes. The cholesterol metabolism in the liposomal reconstituted system was compared with that in the combined organella system composed of bovine adrenocortical mitochondria and microsomes, where the activity of P-450(17) alpha,lyase was inhibited by bifonazole. The metabolic activities in these two systems were similar except for aldosterone production. Aldosterone was produced in the liposomal system but not in the combined organella system. 4-fold increase in the amount of P-450scc in the liposomal system enhanced the activity of 3 beta HSD/I, P-450C21 and 11 beta-hydroxylase of P-450(11) beta but decreased 18-hydroxycorticosterone and aldosterone production by P-450(11) beta, supporting our previous findings describing the regulation mechanism of aldosterone synthesis (Kominami, S., Harada, D. and Takemori, S. (1994) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1192, 234). It was demonstrated using the liposomal reconstituted system that the increase in the amount of one enzyme did not only increase the metabolizing activity of that enzyme but also affect other enzyme in various ways.
