Analysis of 1006 cases with selective salpingography and fallopian tube recanalization]	To retrospectively analysis of selective salpingography (SSG) and fallopian tube recanalization (FTR) in 1006 infertile women with tube obstruction, to summarize their clinical effect and practical value, to analyze the related factors which can improve treatment effect and pregnancy rate, and give suggestions of their indication and contraindication.
Current techniques in microsurgical reversal surgery.	Microsurgical reversal surgery for the treatment of vasal and epididymal obstruction represents one of the most challenging procedures in urology. An awareness of the latest information surrounding these procedures is essential to success. This article discusses current techniques in preparation, anastomosis, and investigational methods.
Successful pregnancy outcome with the use of in vitro fertilization after Essure hysteroscopic sterilization.	To assess the compatibility of pregnancy after IVF and ET procedures with the presence of the Essure microinsert.
Modified tubo-uterine implantations for proximal tubal occlusive infertility after femal sterilization with mucilago phenol]	To explore the effects of modified tubo-uterine implantations performed on women with proximal tubal occlusive infertility after femal sterilization with mucilago phenol.
Laparoscopic tubal reanastomosis using robotics: experience from a teaching institution.	Tubal reanastomosis typically requires a laparotomy and in the past few years has been performed much less frequently due to the development and success of in vitro fertilization. Laparoscopic tubal anastomosis eliminates the need for laparotomy and can be performed in an out-patient setting.
Endoscopic sterilization reversal]	In animal experiments a new technique for tubal reanastomoses has been developed, applicable endoscopically. The first results in humans indicate that this new technique may be an alternative to "classical" microsurgery in selected cases. But more data are necessary to evaluate the role of this new method in the field of reconstructive tubal surgery.
Pregnancy outcomes and prognostic factors from tubal sterilization reversal by sutureless laparoscopical re-anastomosis: a retrospective cohort study.	Female sterilization is a widely used contraceptive method but in a small group of women, post-sterilization regret occurs. A dilemma for these women is the choice between surgical re-anastomosis and IVF. We evaluated the factors that affected pregnancy rate after laparoscopic tubal re-anastomosis for sterilization regret.
Tubal anastomosis after tubal sterilization: a review.	To evaluate various techniques for restoring tubal patency after sterilisation.
High pregnancy rate after microsurgical tubal reanastomosis by temporary loose parallel 4-quadrant sutures technique: a long long-term follow-up report on 961 cases.	Only a limited portion of sterilized women undergo tubal reanastomosis due to high costs, limited availability of qualified practitioners willing to perform the procedure and increasing success rates with IVF. However, IVF has complications and an increased risk of ectopic pregnancy and multiple pregnancies. Recently, the importance of specialized training for tubal anastomosis has been re-emphasized. This study aimed to report the procedure of our microsurgical tubal reanastomosis by a temporary loose parallel 4-quadrant suture technique and its high pregnancy outcome over the last 20 years.
Microsurgical reversal of female sterilization. Long-term follow-up of 117 cases.	A prospective study of 117 consecutive microsurgical reversals of female sterilization from April 1981 to December 1984 was carried out to determine which factors affected the pregnancy outcome. Nylon sutures, 8-0, were placed through the muscularis and mucosal layers. A short abdominal incision was made. The patients were followed for 3.5 to 7.0 years. The term delivery, intra-uterine pregnancy, spontaneous abortion and ectopic pregnancy rates were 81.2%, 83.8%, 1.7% and 1.7%, respectively; two ectopic pregnancies occurred 14 and 24 months after the reversal procedures. We found that the time interval between sterilization and reversal and the methods of sterilization affected the pregnancy outcome. The success rate with intervals of less than five years was much higher than with intervals of more than five years; Pomeroy cases were more reversible than Uchida cases. We did not observe any influence of the anastomosis site on the pregnancy results. The term delivery rates for isthmus-isthmus, isthmus-ampulla and ampulla-ampulla anastomoses were 78.8%, 80.0% and 84.6%, respectively. Patients should be followed for two years at least to determine the pregnancy outcome as well as the occurrence of ectopic pregnancy.
Microsurgical anastomosis of vas deferens: an experimental study in the rat.	A patency rate of more than 90 per cent was achieved after 52 vasovasostomies. Satisfactory results were shown in both internally stented and nonstented anastomoses. A higher incidence of foreign body reaction was associated with silk sutures. Sperm granulomas and reduced patency were noted when superficial sutures were used indicating that a leakproof anastomosis is essential.
Modern aspects of contraception]	As the ideal contraceptive has not been found after a quarter century of global contraception research, this is an attempt to assess the advantages and drawbacks of the so-called "safe" methods of contraception currently in use. The most persuasive arguments in favour of oral contraceptives which other reversible methods cannot claim are their unsurpassed safety as well as the simplicity of their application. The disadvantage of potential damages through the perennial intake of hormones can be minimized with the low dosages of modern compounds. Recommendations are made concerning the controlled use of the various kinds of ovulation-inhibitors. Likewise, the use of ovulation-inhibitors with adolescents, at the end of reproductive age, and with women afflicted with diabetes mellitus are discussed. Advantages and drawbacks of contraception through the exclusive use of progestagen are briefly stated. Despite good applicability in single cases, intrauterine contraception should rather be viewed as a second choice only. Yet the standard problems, such as menstrual disturbances, increased tendency toward inflammations and individual incompatibility remain unsolved. Moreover, the rate of failure of 3% is ten times as high as with the ovulation-inhibitors. In their instructions some producers recommend too short a period of placement of the device in the uterus. Most IUD's can stay in place for a longer period of time. Repeated references to the possible complications of the use of IUD's with nulliparous women are made. As an emergency method to prevent a pregnancy after intercourse without contraceptives a hormonal method as well as the post-coital insertion of an IUD are discussed. After completed family planning the definitive sterilization presents itself as the ideal method of contraception, either through tubal sterilization in case of the woman, or vasectomy in case of the man. Rates of complications, failure rates, and chances of reversibility of both methods are specified.
Use of exteriorized stents in vasovasostomy.	Ten patients, three to fifteen years postvasectomy, underwent vasovasostomy. Using 2-0 nylon, stents were brought to the scrotal surface. Vas anastomosis was accomplished with a single transmural layer of 6-0 or 7-0 proline or chromic sutures under loupe magnification. Stents were removed in seven to ten days. After two years, a pregnancy rate of 70% was achieved, comparing favorably with other more difficult operative techniques.
Microsurgery for tubal and ovarian disease.	The use of microsurgery has been responsible for improvements of various aspects of the management of tubal and ovarian disease. Microsurgery has not merely been a vital experimental tool in the study of tubal physiology and pathology, but has been of proven value in alleviating infertility following pelvic inflammatory disease and for reversal of sterilization. The most dramatic advance has been in the treatment of cornual damage but microsurgery also has a place for salpingostomy and for the preparation of the pelvis before attempts are made at egg recovery for in vitro fertilization.
Reversal of female sterilization: comparison of microsurgical and gross surgical techniques for tubal anastomosis.	Between 1977 and 1979, 34 consecutive, unselected patients had a reversal of tubal sterilization. The characteristics of 23 patients with more than a 6-month follow-up after end-to-end anastomosis are given, as are details of the operative procedures used. The overall intrauterine pregnancy rate was 56%, and the most reversible sterilization procedures, in terms of intrauterine pregnancies, were the Pomeroy, Uchida, and Falope ring (67%). The least reversible were unipolar tubal cautery (42%) and fimbriectomy (50%). Eleven patients had a microsurgical procedure (with the microscope) and 12 a gross surgical procedure. The use of the microscope was not associated with a significantly better pregnancy rate in cases matched for poststerilization tubal length, proximal and distal to the uterus. But insufficient numbers of tubal cautery reversals have been performed for an evaluation of the use of the microscope in this particular situation. The site of the anastomosis and the postoperative length of the tube were good predictors of intrauterine pregnancies. Five of six patients who had isthmus-isthmus anastomoses on at least one side had term vaginal deliveries. Likewise, 10 of 16 patients in whom the length of the longest tube was 6 cm or more had viable pregnancies, but only one of seven patients had a viable pregnancy with tubes of 5 cm or less.
Reversal of female sterilization.	Reversal of sterilization was attempted in 22 women without the use of an operating microscope. Fifty per cent became pregnant. Success was influenced by the site and extent of the tubal damage resulting from the sterilization procedure, mechanical occlusive sterilization techniques offering the best change of a successful reversal.
Recanalisation of vas after vasectomy. Evaluation of various techniques in dogs.	A critical study of various techniques for end-to-end vaso-vasostomies without or with internal splints on 41 dogs is presented. The results of vaso-vasostomy without any internal splint were significantly better than those with splints, both for primary as well as secondary repair after 6 weeks. The presence of an internal splint was associated with a high incidence of severe infection in the vas, epididymis and testis. An end-to-end mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis using either 6/0 silk or Prolene under magnification is recommended as a simple and successful methods of recanalisation of the vas in clinical practice.
Application of microsurgical principles of the reversal of tubal sterilization]	The results in pregnancies obtained in sixty six patients recanalized using the microsurgical principles in a period of five years are presented. The pregnancy rate was 72.7% with 31 new borns (47%), 15 abortions (22.7%) and 2 ectopic pregnancies (3%). Using the life table the accumulative probability of pregnancies was 39%, 55%, 87% at 6, 12 and 24 months respectively. The results are statistically correlated with the parameters of age, time of sterilizations, technique of anastomosis and only or two Fallopian tubes reanastomosed.
Laparoscopic tubal anastomosis (the one stitch technique): preliminary results.	We report a new laparoscopic technique of tubal anastomosis: the laparoscopic one stitch technique. After preparation and approximation of the two tubal segments, the anastomosis consists of one single suture placed at the '12 o'clock' site of the antimesenteric borders. Four patients have undergone this procedure. Bilateral tubal patency was confirmed in three cases. Hysterosalpingography was not performed on the fourth patient as she was already 1 month pregnant after tubal anastomosis.
Vaso-vasostomy, a modified technique.	A modified technique for vaso-vasostomy is described with the aim to achieve better results in operative recanalization and restoration of fertility after vasectomy. Vaso-vasostomy is a success when the man is able to produce fertile semen. Criteria for a fertile semen are mentioned. Fertile semen was obtained in all 5 patients treated by this modified technique.
Reproductive outcome after tubal reversal in women 40 years of age or older.	To determine the reproductive outcome of women who received a microsurgical tubal anastomosis operation at age 40 years or older.
Laparoscopic tubal anastomosis.	We conducted a retrospective chart review of 22 laparoscopic tubal anastomoses performed between May 1987 and May 1991. The procedures were modeled after the two-stitch technique of Swolin. Overall fertility rates were disappointing in this small series, although the first live birth has occurred. The two-stitch method and available laparoscopic suture needles and needle holders limited the surgical results. Modifications of technique and instrumentation should improve fertility outcome.
Intravasal contraception with styrene maleic anhydride and its noninvasive reversal in langur monkeys (Presbytis entellus entellus).	In male langurs with azoospermia induced by vas occlusion with styrene maleic anhydride (SMA), the exploratory feasibility of azoospermia reversal by a new noninvasive reversal procedure has been assessed. Palpation, percutaneous electrical stimulation of the vas deferens, forced vibratory movement, suprapubic percussion, and per rectal digital massage of the vas deferens are the components of the multimodal noninvasive reversal procedure. The exploratory investigation reveals that a single application of the procedure leads to reversal of azoospermia. Normospermia with normal motility and viability appears after third ejaculation onwards after reversal manipulations. Ultrastructure of the spermatozoa, using scanning and transmission electron microscopy, revealed that the spermatozoa attained normalcy and sperm functional tests (i.e., hypo-osmotic swelling test, slide test for acrosome intactness, and test for sperm mitochondrial activity index) further confirmed the normalcy of the spermatozoa toward their fertilizing ability. Semen biochemistry appeared normal throughout the course of investigation. The morphology of the vas deferens, which showed exfoliation of the epithelium, was in the process of regaining normalcy after 90 days of reversal manipulations. The results suggest that noninvasive reversal technique offers the possibility of the functional azoospermia reversal within a short period of time.
