Topical versus systemic vancomycin for deep sternal wound infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in a rodent experimental model.	In 37 Wistar albino rats, we investigated the effects of topical vancomycin on deep sternal wound infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Partial median sternotomy was performed under sterile conditions. Group I (n=6) was the sham, and group II (n=7) was the control. Group III (n=8) received topical vancomycin, group IV (n=8) received systemic vancomycin, and group V (n=8) received topical and systemic vancomycin (combined). Rats in groups II through V were inoculated with 0.5 mL x 10(8) CFU/mL methicillin-resistant S. aureus in the mediastinum and sternum. No medication was given to groups I and II. Twenty-four hours after surgery, 40 mg/kg/day vancomycin was given topically in group III; systemically in group IV; and topically and systemically in group V After 7 days, smear samples from the mediastinum and tissue cultures from the sternum were obtained. We found 5.00 +/- 0 CFU/mL microorganisms in the mediastinum in group II, 1.90 +/- 1.70 in group III, 3.33 +/- 0.48 in group IV and 1.70 +/- 1.08 in group V. The quantity of microorganisms per gram of tissue in the sternum was 736 +/- 0.23 in group II, 6.01 +/- 0.33 in group III, 5.81 +/- 0.81 in group IV and 3.99 +/- 2.47 in group V The quantity of microorganisms was less in the 3 treatment groups than in the control group (P < 0.05). We conclude that topical plus systemic vancomycin treatment might be more effective in patients with deep sternal wound infections caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus.
Randomized clinical trial comparing two options for postoperative incisional care to prevent poststernotomy surgical site infections.	Surgical site infection (SSI) remains an important complication of cardiac surgery. Prevention is important, as SSI is associated with high mortality and morbidity rates. Incisional care is an important daily issue for surgeons. However, there is still scant scientific evidence on which guidelines can be based. A randomized clinical trial was performed to compare two options for postoperative incisional care. Patients undergoing sternotomy for cardiothoracic surgery were eligible. To protect an incision from exogenous contamination or direct inoculation by endogenous pathogens, the study group received an adhesive drape, impermeable to water and air. The control group was treated with a water- and air-permeable absorbent dressing. Primary outcome measure was SSI. Between March 2003 and January 2005, 1,185 patients were included. Both groups were comparable for base-line characteristics. No significant difference was found in the incidence of sternal SSI between groups (2.6 vs. 3.3%). In our study, an incisional-care program using a sterile, impermeable adhesive drape did not perform better than an absorbent dressing in reducing SSI after cardiothoracic surgery. In our view, future studies in the field of prevention of SSI should concentrate on other areas of interest.
Primary sternal osteomyelitis in a healthy child due to community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and literature review.	Primary sternal osteomyelitis is a rare condition. Most of the recent cases have been reported in intravenous drug abusers. A 4-y-old male case of primary sternal osteomyelitis due to community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus with no apparent risk factors is reported. The diagnosis should be suspected in a young patient presenting with acute inflammatory swelling over the sternum. While bacteriological culture results are pending, antibiotic therapy with Staphylococcus aureus coverage should be initiated empirically and the possibility of community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus must be borne in mind. In this report we also review the literature of paediatric primary sternal osteomyelitis.
Primary zygomycosis of the pericardium in an immunocompetent host.	The fungi in the order Mucorales commonly target immunocompromised hosts, especially diabetics and produce fulminating respiratory and/or central nervous system infections, which are often fatal. We report primary zygomycotic pericarditis accompanied by osteomyelitis of the sternum in an immunocompetent female: a rare site and a rare setting. The disease was clinically thought to be of tuberculous aetiology and had evaded diagnosis for a year.
Primary tubercular osteomyelitis of the sternum.	Primary tuberculous osteomyelitis of the sternum is a rare clinical entity. Sternal tuberculosis can result from direct extension of the disease from hilar lymph nodes, hematogenous or lymphatic dissemination from other sites, and following BCG vaccination in children. An unusual case of primary tuberculous osteomyelitis of the sternum that presented with a swelling and pain over the manubrium sterni is reported. Diagnosis was confirmed by demonstration of epithelioid granulomas and acid-fast bacilli and a positive M. tuberculosis culture from the aspirate taken from the sternal swelling. Extensive diagnostic work-up did not reveal any other focus of tuberculosis in this case. The patient was successfully managed with anti-tubercular treatment.
Parasternal mass revealing as a postvaccinal Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG)-elicited sternal osteomyelitis.	Although osteomyelitis is a very rare complication of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination, sternal osteomyelitis as a late complication of BCG vaccination diagnosed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in a child is described.We might consider BCG osteomyelitis in the case of osteomyelitis without bacterial isolation within a year after BCG vaccination, the absence of pulmonary foci, and a contact to the patient with tuberculosis. 
First evidence of sternal wound biofilm following cardiac surgery.	Management of deep sternal wound infection (SWI), a serious complication after cardiac surgery with high morbidity and mortality incidence, requires invasive procedures such as, debridement with primary closure or myocutaneous flap reconstruction along with use of broad spectrum antibiotics. The purpose of this clinical series is to investigate the presence of biofilm in patients with deep SWI. A biofilm is a complex microbial community in which bacteria attach to a biological or non-biological surface and are embedded in a self-produced extracellular polymeric substance. Biofilm related infections represent a major clinical challenge due to their resistance to both host immune defenses and standard antimicrobial therapies. Candidates for this clinical series were patients scheduled for a debridement procedure of an infected sternal wound after a cardiac surgery. Six patients with SWI were recruited in the study. All cases had marked dehiscence of all layers of the wound down to the sternum with no signs of healing after receiving broad spectrum antibiotics post-surgery. After consenting patients, tissue and/or extracted stainless steel wires were collected during the debridement procedure. Debrided tissues examined by Gram stain showed large aggregations of Gram positive cocci. Immuno-fluorescent staining of the debrided tissues using a specific antibody against staphylococci demonstrated the presence of thick clumps of staphylococci colonizing the wound bed. Evaluation of tissue samples with scanning electron microscope (SEM) imaging showed three-dimensional aggregates of these cocci attached to the wound surface. More interestingly, SEM imaging of the extracted wires showed attachment of cocci aggregations to the wire metal surface. These observations along with the clinical presentation of the patients provide the first evidence that supports the presence of biofilm in such cases. Clinical introduction of the biofilm infection concept in deep SWI may advance the current management strategies from standard antimicrobial therapy to anti-biofilm strategy. 
Epidemiology and prevention of surgical site infections after cardiac surgery.	Deep sternal wound infection is the major infectious complication in patients undergoing cardiac surgery, associated with a high morbidity and mortality rate, and a longer hospital stay. The most common causative pathogen involved is Staphylococcus spp. The management of post sternotomy mediastinitis associates surgical revision and antimicrobial therapy with bactericidal activity in blood, soft tissues, and the sternum. The pre-, per-, and postoperative prevention strategies associate controlling the patient's risk factors (diabetes, obesity, respiratory insufficiency), preparing the patient's skin (body hair, preoperative showering, operating site antiseptic treatment), antimicrobial prophylaxis, environmental control of the operating room and medical devices, indications and adequacy of surgical techniques. Recently published scientific data prove the significant impact of decolonization in patients carrying nasal Staphylococcus aureus, on surgical site infection rate, after cardiac surgery. 
The role of surgery in primary osteomyelitis of the chest wall.	Seven patients with primary osteomyelitis of the chest wall are described. All patients presented with pain at the site of infection, and four patients had a tumor-like mass that could easily be confused with a neoplastic process. All were heroin addicted and pseudomonas was the most common organism cultured. Conservative management with antibiotics for a minimum of 4 weeks is recommended with operation assuming a secondary role, namely, to assist in the initial diagnosis or in the form of limited resection of residual sinuses. Primary wide resection is discouraged.
