Palmoplantar pustulotic arthro-osteitis of the peripheral joints with no sternocostoclavicular lesions.	A 45 year old woman presented with swelling and pain on joint movement of her knees, although joint movement was relatively well maintained. Five years previously the patient had been diagnosed as having pustulosis palmoplantaris by a dermatologist. Treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) had no effect, but treatment with 5 mg/day prednisolone caused remission of both the joint pain and swelling and the pustulosis palmoplantaris. There were no sternocostoclavicular lesions at any time during treatment. Clinical findings in this patient were different from previous reports and she was diagnosed as having palmoplantar pustulotic arthro-osteitis affecting the peripheral joints.
Osteoarticular infection associated with the human immunodeficiency virus.	An analysis is presented of 20 patients with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection who were treated for skeletal infection in our hospital. Seventeen cases of septic arthritis and three of osteomyelitis were found. All patients were intravenous drug abusers, 75% were male and all were younger than 40 years old. Eighty-eight percent of the septic arthritis cases were monarticular, the hip joint being the area most commonly affected (29%), and Staphylococcus aureus and Candida albicans were the most frequently isolated agents (60% and 20%, respectively). Gram negative bacteria were not found. No correlation between the number of CD4 lymphocytes, affected joints, isolated microorganism or functional capacity was found. Four of 17 patients with septic arthritis and 2 of 3 with osteomyelitis fulfilled the CDC criteria for the diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). All cases except one responded to conventional therapy. We conclude that skeletal infection in HIV-infected patients is more closely associated with the risk-group than with HIV itself.
Multidetector computed tomography findings of the sternoclavicular joint in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.	We evaluated the multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) findings of the sternoclavicular joint in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and compare them with general population. Chest MDCT scans of RA patients were reviewed. The control group was formed from age and sex-matched individuals. The most common CT findings were cortical irregularity, joint space narrowing, and osteophytes in study group. There were no statistically significant differences in the MDCT findings between the two groups except that osteophytes were observed more often in the control group. It is difficult to distinguish between the involvement of RA and age-related degenerative changes at the sternoclavicular joint. 
Ankylosing spondylitis presenting as juxta-articular masses in females.	Juxta-articular inflammatory masses, sternomanubrial or sternoclavicular, were noted in two women who were subsequently found to have ankylosing spondylitis. The differential diagnosis of juxta-articular masses should include systemic rheumatic disorders as well as tumor or infection.
Osteoarticular manifestations of pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and of psoriasis: two distinct entities.	To test the hypothesis that pustulosis palmaris et plantaris and psoriatic arthritis (PsA) are two distinct diseases, and that the associated dermatoses are therefore also distinct diseases.
