Phytoestrogens are potent inhibitors of estrogen sulfation: implications for breast cancer risk and treatment.	We investigated the ability of 37 flavonoids and flavonoid sulfoconjugates, including some abundant dietary constituents, to act as substrates and/or inhibitors of the sulfotransferase and sulfatase enzymes that interconvert active estrogens and inactive estrogen sulfates in human tissues. The enzymes studied include estrogen sulfotransferase, the thermostable phenolsulfotransferase that acts on a range of substrates including estrogens; steroid sulfatase; and two related enzymes, monoamine phenolsulfotransferase and arylsulfatase A. Several dietary flavonoids, including the soy isoflavones genistein and daidzein, were sulfated by these human sulfotransferases. Many flavonoids were potent inhibitors of thermostable phenolsulfotransferase. Genistein and equol were potent mixed inhibitors of hepatic estrogen sulfotransferase, with inhibitory constant values of 500 nM and 400 nM, respectively. Monoamine phenolsulfotransferase activity was relatively unaffected by flavonoids, but this enzyme was mainly responsible for the sulfation of flavonoids at concentrations greater than 1 micro M. Of the compounds tested, only daidzein 4,7-bisulfate, a trace metabolite in humans, significantly inhibited steroid sulfatase in the micromolar concentration range. Hence, dietary flavonoids may be able to influence the bioavailability of endogenous estrogens, and disrupt endocrine balance, by increasing the ratio of active estrogens to inactive estrogen sulfates in human tissues.
Down-regulation of messenger ribonucleic acid encoding an importer of sulfoconjugated steroids during human chorionic gonadotropin-induced follicular luteinization in vivo.	Members of the organic anion transporting polypeptide (SLCO/OATP) superfamily are capable of importing anionic compounds across the lipid bilayer in a sodium-independent manner. Member 2B1 has been shown to transport few substrates, two of which are dihydroepiandrosterone-3-sulfate (DHEA-S) and estrone-3-sulfate. Steroid sulfatase (STS) catalyses the hydrolysis of these steroids into their unconjugated counterparts. The objective of this study was to investigate the regulation of SLCO2B1 and STS mRNAs during human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)-induced ovulation/luteinization. The equine SLCO2B1 cDNA was cloned and shown to encode a 709-amino acid protein (OATP2B1) that is highly conserved when compared to mammalian orthologs. RT-PCR/Southern blot analyses were performed to study the regulation of SLCO2B1 and STS transcripts in equine preovulatory follicles isolated between 0 and 39h after hCG treatment. Results showed high levels of SLCO2B1 mRNA expression before hCG, with a marked decrease observed in follicles obtained 24-39h post-hCG (P<0.05). Analyses of isolated granulosa and theca interna cells identified high mRNA expression in both cell types prior to hCG treatment, with granulosa cells showing a more rapid SLCO2B1 mRNA down-regulation. No significant change in STS mRNA was observed in intact follicle walls. However, when both cell types were isolated, a significant decrease in STS mRNA was observed in granulosa cells 24-39h post-hCG. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the hCG-dependent induction of follicular luteinization is accompanied by the down-regulation of SLCO2B1 and STS transcripts. Considering that OATP2B1 can import sulfoconjugated DHEA and estrogens, and that STS can remove the sulfonate moiety from these steroids, their down-regulation in luteinizing preovulatory follicles may provide an additional biochemical basis for the decrease in ovarian 17beta-estradiol biosynthesis after the LH surge.
Steroid sulfatase, arylsulfatases A and B, galactose-6-sulfatase, and iduronate sulfatase in mammary cells and effects of sulfated and non-sulfated estrogens on sulfatase activity.	Sulfatase enzymes have important roles in metabolism of steroid hormones and of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). The activity of five sulfatase enzymes, including steroid sulfatase (STS; arylsulfatase C), arylsulfatase A (ASA; cerebroside sulfatase), arylsulfatase B (ASB; N-acetylgalactosamine-4-sulfatase), galactose-6-sulfatase (GALNS), and iduronate-2-sulfatase (IDS), was compared in six different mammary cell lines, including the malignant mammary cell lines MCF7, T47D, and HCC1937, the MCF10A cell line which is associated with fibrocystic disease, and in primary epithelial and myoepithelial cell lines established from reduction mammoplasty. The effects of estrogen hormones, including estrone, estradiol, estrone 3-sulfate, and estradiol sulfate on activity of these sulfatases were determined. The malignant cell lines MCF7 and T47D had markedly less activity of STS, ASB, ASA, and GAL6S, but not IDS. The primary myoepithelial cells had highest activity of STS and ASB, and the normal epithelial cells had highest activity of GALNS and ASA. Greater declines in sulfatase activity occurred in response to estrone and estradiol than sulfated estrogens. The study findings demonstrated marked variation in sulfatase activity and in effects of exogenous estrogens on sulfatase activity among the different mammary cell types.
Synthesis of highly tritium labeled steroids for evaluation of aromatase and steroidsulfatase activities in endometrial tumors.	Data on activities of estrogen-synthesis enzymes (aromatase and steroidsulfatase) in endometrial tumors were obtained by sensitive and highly precise radioisotope methods. The results clear out some pathogenetic aspects in the development and progress of malignant tumors in the endometrium.
Effect of tamoxifen or anastrozole on steroid sulfatase activity and serum androgen concentrations in postmenopausal women with breast cancer.	In postmenopausal women estrogens can be formed by the aromatase pathway, which gives rise to estrone, and the steroid sulfatase (STS) route which can result in the formation of estrogens and androstenediol, a steroid with potent estrogenic properties. Aromatase inhibitors, such as anastrozole, are now in clinical use whereas STS inhibitors, such as STX64, are still undergoing clinical evaluation. STX64 was recently shown to block STS activity and reduce serum androstenediol concentrations in postmenopausal women with breast cancer. In contrast, little is known about the effects of aromatase inhibitors or anti-estrogens on STS activity or serum androgen levels.
Synthesis of 2-[11C]methoxy-3,17β-O,O-bis(sulfamoyl)estradiol as a new potential PET agent for imaging of steroid sulfatase (STS) in cancers.	Steroid sulfatase (STS) catalyzes the hydrolysis of steroid sulfates to estrones, the main source of estrogens in tumors. Carbonic anhydrase II (CAII) is highly expressed in red blood cells through a coordination of the monoanionic form of the sulfamate moiety to the zinc atom in the enzyme active site, and CAII is highly expressed in several tumors. 2-Methoxy-3,17β-O,O-bis(sulfamoyl)estradiol (5) is a dual-function STS-CAII inhibitor inhibited STS with 39 nM IC(50) value selectively over CAII with 379 nM IC(50) value. This compound exhibited potent antiproferative activity with mean graph midpoint value of 87 nM in the NCI 60-cell-line panel, and antiangiogenic in vitro and in vivo activity in an early-stage Lewis lung model as well. The compound has been recently developed as a multitargeted anticancer agent. Both STS and CAII are over-expressed in cancers and have become attractive targets for cancer treatment and molecular imaging of cancer. Here we report the first design and synthesis of 2-[(11)C]methoxy-3,17β-O,O-bis(sulfamoyl)estradiol ([(11)C]5) as a new potential imaging agent for biomedical imaging technique positron emission tomography (PET) to image STS in cancers. The authentic standard 5 was synthesized from 17β-estradiol by published procedures in 5 steps with 40% overall chemical yield. The precursor 2-hydroxy-3,17β-O,O-bis(sulfamoyl)estradiol (14a) for radiolabeling was synthesized from 17β-estradiol in 10 steps with 5% overall chemical yield. The target tracer [(11)C]5 was prepared from the precursor 14a with [(11)C]CH(3)OTf through O-[(11)C]methylation and isolated by HPLC combined with solid-phase extraction (SPE) purification in 40-50% radiochemical yields based on [(11)C]CO(2) and decay corrected to end of bombardment (EOB), with 370-740 GBq/μmol specific activity at EOB.
