Hamstring graft technique for stabilization of canine cranial cruciate ligament deficient stifles.	To investigate the harvest and application of hamstring grafts for canine cranial cruciate ligament (CrCL) reconstruction.
Comparison of normograde and retrograde intramedullary pinning of feline tibias.	This study evaluated the effects of normograde and retrograde intramedullary pinning of mid-diaphyseal fractures of the feline tibia on the anatomical structures of the stifle joint. Using the paired pelvic limbs from five mature feline cadavers, a transverse, mid-diaphyseal osteotomy was performed, and each tibia was pinned in a normograde or retrograde fashion. The stifle joints were examined to determine the pin exit site and measure the distance from the exit site to pertinent anatomical structures of the stifle joint. Neither normograde nor retrograde intramedullary pinning resulted in damage to the cruciate ligaments, menisci, intermeniscal ligament, femoral condyles, or joint capsule. The patellar tendon was penetrated in all five tibias during retrograde pin insertion.
Evaluation of analgesia provided by the administration of epidural ketamine in dogs with a chemically induced synovitis.	To determine if epidural ketamine provides analgesia in dogs with a chemically induced synovitis.
Mechanical analysis of fixation methods for anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with hamstring tendon graft. An experimental study in sheep knees.	This study evaluates the structural properties of the femur-anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) graft-tibia complex, comparing different graft fixation techniques in sheep knees. Four fixation devices were tested both for femoral fixation (Transfix, absorbable screw, RCI screw and Linx-HT) and tibial fixation (bone plug with metal screw, absorbable screw with staple, RCI screw and cancellous screw with spiked washer). The graft used for ACL reconstruction was fresh ovine doubled Achilles tendon (DAT). Femurs and tibias were tested separately. Two mechanical test series were performed on the specimens: a load-to-failure test and a cyclic loading test. On the femoral side, transcondylar screw showed the greatest fixation strength and stiffness and the lowest elongation at cyclic loading. Tibial fixation complexes seemed to have poorer structural properties in comparison to femoral fixation. Among the tibial fixation devices, absorbable screw with staple fixation showed the greatest strength and stiffness. Spiked washer fixation showed the greatest elongation under cyclic loading.
Does use of a jig influence the precision of tibial plateau leveling osteotomy surgery?	To compare the precision of tibial plateau leveling osteotomy (TPLO) surgery when performed with or without a jig.
Effect of intravenous ketamine and lidocaine on isoflurane requirement in sheep undergoing orthopedic surgery.	Intravenous ketamine and lidocaine infusions may be useful adjuncts to inhalation anesthesia for sheep undergoing orthopedic surgery. In this study, 50 female sheep underwent experimental stifle surgery (29 received a meniscal implant and 21 received sham surgery). To induce anesthesia in the sheep, the authors intravenously injected ketamine and diazepam. They administered isoflurane in oxygen to maintain anesthesia and used mechanical ventilation to maintain normal arterial carbon dioxide pressure. Some sheep received intravenous infusions of ketamine and lidocaine during surgery, whereas others did not. Sheep that received a meniscal implant without ketamine-lidocaine required approximately 23% greater isoflurane concentrations than sheep that were given ketamine-lidocaine. These findings suggest that intravenous infusion of ketamine and lidocaine decreases the requirement for isoflurane during orthopedic surgery on anesthetized sheep.
Biomechanical stability of four cranial cruciate ligament repair techniques in the dog.	Four commonly used cranial cruciate ligament (CCL) repair techniques were compared biomechanically in canine cadaver stifles by assessment of immediate postoperative laxity (cranial drawer) and stiffness. Each joint was tested nondestructively before repair, with the CCL intact and with the CCL excised. The cranio-caudal laxity after each repair was expressed as a percentage of the laxity in the same stifle after CCL excision. The stiffness of a repair was expressed as a percentage of the same intact joint's stiffness at an equivalent displacement. Repaired stifles were tested three consecutive times to the same maximum load (180 N) and the comparative laxity and stiffness in each test were determined. Fibular head transposition resulted in significantly increased stiffness, less laxity, and less decay per test than the other repairs. Lateral imbrication resulted in significantly less laxity on all tests, and significantly greater stiffness than the fascial strip or patellar tendon on the second and third tests to maximum load. The fascial strip resulted in significantly less laxity on all tests than the patellar tendon, but it was not significantly greater in stiffness. These data suggest that, of the reconstructive methods tested, fibular head transposition has biomechanically superior properties in the immediate postoperative period.
Evaluation of intra-articular and subcutaneous administration of meloxicam for postoperative analgesia following stifle surgery in dogs.	The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of meloxicam when given by intra-articular (IA) and subcutaneous (SC) routes of administration for postoperative analgesia versus a placebo for dogs undergoing stifle surgery. Twenty-five dogs with cranial cruciate ligament rupture (CCLR) were randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups, each with nine dogs, before surgical repair of twenty-seven stifles using a modified lateral retinacular imbrication technique. Group 1 dogs received IA administration of meloxicam and SC placebo. Group 2 dogs received IA placebo and SC meloxicam. Group 3 dogs received IA and SC administration of placebo. Dogs were assessed for pain by blinded observers using a visual analog scale (VAS), a numerical pain scoring system (NPS), and measurement of pain threshold using an algometer applied to the affected stifle. Assessments were made prior to pre-medication, postoperatively at the time of extubation, and at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 20, and 24 hours following extubation. The results did not identify any significant effect of treatment between groups on the VAS data, algometer readings, or NPS data. Significantly increased VAS scores and decreased algometer readings were noted from preoperative to postoperative times. No differences were noted in early postoperative pain between dogs treated with IA meloxicam, SC meloxicam, or placebo. While intra-articular non-steroidal anti- inflammatory drug administration has shown efficacy in joint surgery for people, we did not find any evidence to support its use in dogs undergoing repair of CCLR.
Procedural sedation combined with locoregional anesthesia for orthopedic surgery of the pelvic limb in 10 dogs: case series.	Ten dogs weighing 36 (21.4-75) kg [median (min-max)] and aged 3 (1-9) years scheduled for orthopedic surgery involving the stifle and structures distal to it.
Intraoperative antinociception and postoperative analgesia following epidural anesthesia versus femoral and sciatic nerve blockade in dogs undergoing stifle joint surgery.	To compare analgesic efficacy of preoperative epidural anesthesia with efficacy of femoral and sciatic nerve blockade in dogs undergoing hind limb orthopedic surgery.
Postoperative comparison of four perioperative analgesia protocols in dogs undergoing stifle joint surgery.	To compare 4 analgesic protocols in dogs undergoing stifle joint surgery.
Biomechanical evaluation of a crimp clamp system for loop fixation of monofilament nylon leader material used for stabilization of the canine stifle joint.	To test a crimp clamp system designed to secure monofilament nylon leader (MNL) material commonly used as lateral fabellotibial sutures (LFS) in extra-articular stabilization of the canine stifle joint.
