Mortality study of 18 000 patients treated with omeprazole.	The long term safety of potent gastric acid suppressive therapy has yet to be established.
Treatment of gastric hemorrhage by pulverized omeprazole and antacid--concomitant administration via a nasogastric tube.	Gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is a common episode in pediatric patients with severe motor and intellectual disabilities (SMID) and occasionally leads to a severe clinical state accompanied with nausea, hematemesis, melena, wheezing, pneumonia, anemia and/or failure to thrive. We report here a case of a 14-year-old male with Lennox syndrome who had been treated with a histamine H2 blocker intravenously or via a nasogastric tube for repeated gastric hemorrhage due to severe GER. Since his gastric hemorrhage became resistant to the H2 blocker, we decided to replace it with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Although lansoprazole can be decapsulated for administration via a nasogastric tube, it tends to block fine tubes. The acid-sensitive drug omeprazole, another oral PPI, is commercially available as enteric-coated tablets. Therefore, we pulverized the tablets and administered omeprazole, mixed with a small amount of antacid, via a nasogastric tube. The patient's gastric hemorrhage was dramatically improved. Thus, administration of pulverized omeprazole concomitantly with antacid via a fine nasogastric tube may provide a novel approach for the treatment of chronic GER in pediatric patients with SMID.
Epinephrine protects against severe acute gastric bleeding in rats: role of nitric oxide and glutathione.	The aim of this study was to examine the effect of the systemic administration of epinephrine against severe acute gastric bleeding in rats. Epinephrine decreased gastric hemorrhage not only before but also after lipopolysaccharide-induced severe acute gastric bleeding. Epinephrine ameliorated severe gastric hemorrhage and decreased gastric mucosal lipid peroxidation through alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors. Epinephrine modulated alpha-adrenoceptors to increase the levels of gastric mucosal nitric oxide and glutathione. Nitric oxide synthase inhibitors potently reversed the effects of epinephrine on gastric mucosal glutathione. Thus, epinephrine might act through alpha-adrenoceptors to increase the levels of gastric mucosal nitric oxide and glutathione and thus protect against severe acute gastric bleeding in rats.
Erythromycin therapy for gastroparesis.	Gastroparesis from numerous causes has been treated with a number of prokinetic agents. We report the successful use of erythromycin as a prokinetic agent in the treatment of two cases of idiopathic gastroparesis in which treatment with metoclopramide or domperidone or both had failed. We also review information about erythromycin's mechanism of action, previous therapeutic uses, administration (doses, duration, and route), and role as an alternative to other prokinetic agents. When treatment with other agents is unsuccessful, erythromycin is a viable alternative therapy for gastroparesis.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome induced by domperidone.	A 47-year-old woman with diabetic gastroparesis, on treatment with domperidone, a dopamine-receptor antagonist, was admitted to the hospital in coma, with high blood pressure and nonreactive pupils. She then developed high fever. Her condition progressively worsened for two days, when muscle rigidity was noted and creatine phosphokinase was greater than 2000 U/liter. A diagnosis of neuroleptic malignant syndrome was made, and the patient was given dantrolene with prompt and complete resolution of all signs and symptoms. Subsequent inquiry revealed a distant past history of positive muscle biopsy for malignant hyperthermia, obtained after the diagnosis had been made in a family member. This case suggests that domperidone may induce neuroleptic malignant syndrome and that patients with malignant hyperthermia are at increased risk for this complication.
Gastroprotective effect and cytotoxicity of terpenes from the Paraguayan crude drug "yagua rova" (Jatropha isabelli).	A new jatrophone derivative (6), jatrophone (3), jatropholone A (4) and jatropholone B (5), acetyl aleuritolic acid (1), cyperenoic acid (2) and a monoterpene were isolated from the rhizomes of the Paraguayan crude drug Jatropha isabelli. The compounds were characterized by spectroscopic means. The gastroprotective effect of jatrophone, jatropholone A and B as well as 9beta,13alpha-dihydroxyisabellione 6 and the triterpene 1 was assessed in the HCl/EtOH-induced gastric lesions model in mice. Jatrophone elicited a strong gastroprotective effect with no significant differences between 25, 50 or 100 mg/kg and reducing lesions from 88 to 93%. The jatropholones A and B showed remarkable differences in the gastroprotective assay. Jatropholone A presented a dose-related response, with maximum effect (54% lesion reduction) at the highest dose (100 mg/kg), jatropholone B showed a strong action at all the doses, reducing lesions by 83-91%. The cytotoxicity of the compounds was assessed towards fibroblasts and AGS cells. Jatrophone was toxic against both cell lines (IC50 values: 2.8 and 2.5 microM, respectively). Jatropholone B (5) was not cytotoxic while jatropholone A (4) displayed a selective effect against AGS cells (IC50: 49 microM). The relevance of stereochemistry in the biological effects is clear comparing the effect of jatropholone A and B against AGS cells, with IC50 values of 49 and > 1000 microM for the beta and alpha C-16 isomers, respectively. The results provide scientific support for the use of "yagua rova" as a gastroprotective crude drug in Paraguayan traditional medicine.
Treatment of deficiency of spleen energy with zhenqi fuzheng chongji and its effect on Zn, Cu and Mg in serum]	This article reports that there is a good response, with an effective rate of 96.2% in the treatment of the deficiency of Spleen energy (DSE) with Zhenqi Fuzheng Chongji (ZQFZCJ). The serous level of ZQFZCJ and the serum concentrations of Zn, Cu and Mg in 53 patients with DSE and in 83 normal subjects were measured with atomic absorption spectrometric analysis. In contrast to the normal subjects, the concentrations of Zn and Mg were decreased and that of Cu and the ratio of Cu/Zn increased in the patients before treatment (P greater than 0.01-0.05). After treatment, however, the concentrations of Zn and Mg became increased (P less than 0.001, P less than 0.05), and the ratio of Cu/Zn decreased (P less than 0.001). The authors conclude that there is some relationship between these three elements and DSE, and the mechanism for the treatment of DSE with ZQFZCJ. ZQFZCJ, rich in trace elements, may provide trace elements for the body, improve the metabolism, transportation and utilization of the trace elements in the body, and activate various enzymes, thus regulating and maintaining the homeostasis, i.e. "supporting in deficient patients".
Gastric syphilis: a systematic review of published cases of the last 50 years.	The authors conducted a systematic review of the English literature for cases of Gastric Syphilis (GS) in the last 50 years. The 34 studies which met selection criteria included 52 patients with GS. Of the reviewed patients, only 13% had a history of syphilis diagnosis and 46% had prior or concurrent clinical manifestations of the disease. Epigastric pain/fullness was the most common presenting symptom (92%) and epigastric tenderness being the most common sign. Gastric bleeding of variable intensity was documented in 35% of the cases. In the radiologic examinations, fibrotic narrowing and rigidity of the gastric wall was the most common finding (43%), followed by hypertrophic and irregular folds, while in endoscopy the most common lesion types were multiple ulcerations (48%), nodular mucosa, and erosions. The antrum was the most commonly affected area (56%). The majority of the patients received penicillin (83%) with a rapid resolution of their symptoms. Seventeen percent of the patients were treated surgically either due to a complication or due to strong suspicion of infiltrating tumor or lymphoma. The nonspecific clinical, radiologic, and pathologic characteristics of GS can establish it as a great imitator of other gastric diseases. GS should be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients at risk for sexually transmitted diseases who present with abdominal complaints and unusual endoscopic lesions and no other diagnosis is made, irrespective of the presence of H. pylori. The absence of primary or secondary luetic lesions should not deter one from considering GS.
Intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to amyloidosis responsive to cisapride.	A case of chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction secondary to systemic amyloidosis in a patient with multiple myeloma is described. Gastrointestinal symptoms and indices of nutrition improved markedly after commencing treatment with cisapride, which may have been responsible for relatively prolonged survival compared with similar reported cases.
Medicinal plants of Otwal and Ngai Sub Counties in Oyam district, Northern Uganda.	An ethnobotanical study was carried out in four parishes in the Ngai and Otwal Sub Counties in Oyam district, Northern Uganda, where insurgency has been prevalent for the past 20 years. Documenting medicinal plant species used in treating various health conditions among the local people.
Antiperistaltic effect and safety of L-menthol sprayed on the gastric mucosa for upper GI endoscopy: a phase III, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	GI peristalsis during GI endoscopy commonly requires intravenous or intramuscular injection of antispasmodic agents, which sometimes cause unexpected adverse reactions.
Anti-Helicobacter pylori activity of Terminalia macroptera root.	The root of Terminalia macroptera Guill. & Perr. (Combretaceae) is widely used in African traditional medicine to treat various infectious diseases, including stomach-associated diseases. This study investigates the in vitro activity of T. macroptera root extract against reference strains and clinical isolates of H. pylori and attempts to localize the extract bioactivity. T. macroptera hydroethanol (80% V/V) root extract (Tmr) activity was tested against three standard strains and sixty two clinical strains of H. pylori. Tmr liquid-liquid partition fractions were screened against twenty H. pylori strains. Qualitative analysis of Tmr and its fractions was performed by HPLC-UV/DAD. The antibiotic characterization of the H. pylori strains revealed that 20% of the tested clinical isolates were resistant to at least two of the three antibiotics belonging to the main groups of antibiotics used in multi-therapy to eradicate H. pylori infections. In contrast, Tmr showed anti-H. pylori activity against the majority (92%) of the tested strains (MIC(50) and MIC(90)=200 μg/ml). The Tmr water liquid-liquid fraction (Tmr-3) and the precipitate obtained from this fraction (Tmr-5) were the most active tested samples, showing a MIC(50) of 100 μg/ml. The present work proves the in vitro activity of T. macroptera against H. pylori, thus confirming the utility of this traditional medicinal plant to treat stomach complaints due to H. pylori infection. The main compounds of Tmr and of Tmr-3 were the ellagitannins terchebulin and punicalagin. These compounds can be considered as markers of T. macroptera root active extracts against H. pylori.
Gastric emptying and gastric myoelectrical activity in patients with diabetic gastroparesis: effect of long-term domperidone treatment.	We measured gastric emptying and gastric myoelectrical activity with solid-phase gastric-emptying tests and cutaneously recorded electrogastrograms (EGGs), respectively, in six insulin-dependent diabetic patients with nausea and vomiting who did not respond to standard treatments. Baseline solid phase gastric emptying was markedly delayed (78 +/- 8% retained at 120 min) and EGG recordings revealed gastric dysrhythmias; tachygastria (4-9 cpm signals) in one patient, 1- to 2-cpm waves in two patients, and flatline patterns in three patients. No patient had a normal 3-cpm EGG pattern. After 6 months of domperidone treatment, mean upper gastrointestinal symptoms scores decreased from 17.8 to 3.7 (p less than 0.01), and normal 3-cpm EGG frequencies were recorded from each of the six patients. The mean percentage of meal retained at 120 min decreased but did not improve significantly. Thus, establishment of normal 3-cpm gastric myoelectric activity and resolution of dysrhythmias, not normalization of emptying rates, was associated with improvement in upper gastrointestinal symptoms in these diabetic patients.
Variations of gastric transmucosal potential difference and lesion formation during hemorrhagic shock in the rat.	We measured transmucosal potential difference (PD) of the stomach in anesthetized rats before, during, and after hemorrhagic shock, and investigated the effects of various drugs on the PD and gastric lesion during this period. After hemorrhagic shock, there was a decrease of PD and an increase of luminal pH in the saline-perfused stomach, the degree of these changes being dependent on a fall in the arterial blood pressure. The graded reduction of PD in response to hemorrhagic shock was similarly observed in the acid-perfused stomach as in the saline-perfused one. However, gastric lesions developed only in the former, and a significant correlation was found between the lesion index and the fall in blood pressure, the reduction in PD, or the concentration of HCl as the perfusate. Subcutaneously administered propantheline bromide (30 mg/kg) or cimetidine (100 mg/kg) had no effect on gastric lesion and PD reduction caused by hemorrhagic shock. These lesions were significantly inhibited by 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 (10 micrograms/kg) or sulindac (100 mg/kg), a scavenger of OH., and aggravated by indomethacin (1 mg/kg), with less effect on the PD reduction. Intravenous infusion of NaHCO3 (0.5 M) also significantly prevented the lesion with a concomitant suppression of the PD reduction in response to hemorrhagic shock, but these effects were significantly reversed by pretreatment of the animals with acetazolamide (50 mg/kg). These results indicate that during hemorrhagic shock the PD may largely reflect the impairment of mucosal blood flow and may be used as an indicator of mucosal vulnerability to acid, gastric lesions develop only in the presence of exogenous acid, and production of prostaglandins and superoxide radicals may be involved in the pathogenesis of gastric lesions.
Gastroparesis and the current use of prokinetic drugs.	Gastroparesis is a chronic gastric motility disorder in which there is delayed gastric emptying of solids plus or minus liquids. Symptoms of gastroparesis may range from early satiety and nausea in mild cases to chronic vomiting, dehydration, and nutritional compromise in severe cases. Diagnosis of gastroparesis is based on demonstration of delayed gastric emptying of a radiolabeled solid meal in the absence of mechanical obstruction. A number of gastrointestinal and systemic disorders may impair gastric motility with resultant gastroparesis. Approximately one third of patients with gastroparesis have no identifiable underlying cause (so called idiopathic gastroparesis). Management of gastroparesis involves four areas: (1) nutritional support, (2) antiemetic drugs, (3) prokinetic drugs, and (4) surgical therapy (in a very small subset of patients). Gastroparesis is often a chronic, relapsing condition; 80% of patients require maintenance antiemetic and prokinetic therapy and 20% require long-term nutritional supplementation. In the near future, the most promising advances in the treatment of patients with gastroparesis will most likely come from the area of combination pharmacological therapy. In the long term, developments in the area of intestinal pacing and intestinal transplantation may offer further treatment options in this difficult disorder.
Usefulness of erythromycin in severe postoperative gastroparesis]	Erythromycin has recently been shown to exert a great effect on gastroduodenal motor activity. This prokinetic action may be clinically useful in patients with gastrointestinal hypomotility such as diabetic or postsurgical gastroparesis. The case of a diabetic patient who underwent antrectomy Billroth II for gastric cancer is presented. Severe gastroparesis appeared after surgery and nasogastric aspiration could not be removed, although the patient was treated with metoclopramide, and glucose levels, hydroelectrolytic balance and nutritional status were corrected. Forty-one days after the first operation, a second gastrectomy with Bilroth II reconstruction was performed because of supposed anastomotic narrowing, which was not confirmed at surgery. Fourteen days later, i.v. erythromycin (200 mg/4h) was started owing to gastroparesis persistence. Six days after treatment the patient tolerated oral ingestion. Prokinetic drugs constitute the specific therapy for gastroparesis. Metoclopramide is the most used, although its efficacy is limited. In the last few years, erythromycin has proved to have a powerful effect on gastroduodenal motility. This effect is mediated, at least in part, by its motilin stimulating activity accelerating gastric emptying. Our patient completely recovered from gastroparesis after erythromycin treatment. Recent results of erythromycin therapy in these patients have been promising, despite the difficult management involved.
Upper digestive hemorrhage. Comparison of terlipressin and octreotide]	The efficacy and tolerability of both Terlipressin and Octreotide in the treatment of upper digestive haemorrhage (oesophagus, stomach and duodenum) have been compared, at random, on 30 adult patients. Terlipressin dosage was 2 mg/4 hours i.v. during the first 24 hours, 2 mg/6 hours during the following 24 hours. Octreotide dosage was 50 micrograms i.v. and infusional therapy, 25 micrograms/hours, followed. Haemostasis was obtained in 100% of patients treated with Terlipressin and in 73% of patients treated with Octreotide. Rebleeding occurred in 3 patients treated with Terlipressin and 4 patients treated with Octreotide. Side effects occurred in 4 patients treated with Terlipressin and 8 patients treated with Octreotide. Terlipressin proved to have a better efficacy in comparison with Octreotide, and had less side effects.
The probiotic correction of microecological and immune disorders in gastroduodenal pathology in children]	The state of microbiocenosis was studied and the level of immunoglobulins was determined in the gastric juice and feces of children with chronic diseases of the digestive system. In 20% of patients an increase in the contamination of the gastric biotope with opportunistic microflora was established. The isolation rate of Helicobacter pylori was 56%. The detection of H. pylori was found to be accompanied by the aggravation of the form and course of gastritis. In cases of Helicobacter-associated pathology the deficiency of Lactobacillus sp. in the stomach was established, which was accompanied by their deficiency and absence in feces. The study also revealed a decrease in the population level of Bifidobacterium sp. with a simultaneous increase in the population of opportunistic enterobacteria and changes in the state of local immunity: the decreased level of SIgA in most samples and the decreased level of IgG in the presence of H. pylori. The correction of microecological and immune disturbances with probiotic preparations, containing bifidobacteria (bifidumbacterin-forte) and lactobacilli, yielded good results.
Bismuth therapy for Helicobacter pylori infection. A review of five years experience at a university hospital in Norway.	Eradication of H. pylori cures peptic ulcer disease. Bismuth and antibiotics in various combinations were tested at a single university hospital.
Domperidone. A review of its use in diabetic gastropathy.	Domperidone is a selective antagonist at peripheral dopamine D2 receptors, with gastroprokinetic and antiemetic properties. It increases the frequency and duration of antral and duodenal contractions, thus decreasing/improving transit time of food through the gastrointestinal tract. Gastric emptying of liquids and solids is significantly improved with oral domperidone 40 to 120 mg/day in patients with diabetic gastropathy. Oral domperidone 40 to 80 mg/day significantly decreased the severity of symptoms of gastropathy from baseline values in 66 to 88% of patients with type 1 (insulin-dependent) or insulin-requiring diabetes mellitus. Double-blind withdrawal of domperidone from patients who had responded previously led to greater deterioration of symptoms in patients with delayed gastric emptying than in those who continued receiving the drug. Quality of life was significantly improved in patients who showed a symptomatic response to domperidone. The administration of domperidone 40 to 120 mg/day significantly reduced hospitalisation rates in patients with gastropathy. The symptomatic improvement with domperidone 80 mg/day was similar to that seen with cisapride 40 mg/day or metoclopramide 40 mg/day, and therapeutic benefits seen in symptoms of gastropathy were maintained with domperidone for up to 12 years. Domperidone 40 to 80 mg/day may be effective in patients who are refractory to metoclopramide, and a combination of domperidone 80 mg/day with cisapride 80 mg/day may improve some symptoms in patients who do not respond to either agent alone. Domperidone 40 to 120 mg/day was well tolerated for periods up to 12 years in trials in patients with diabetic gastropathy. Adverse events with domperidone 80 mg/day were similar to those seen in placebo recipients and significantly fewer than in patients receiving metoclopramide 40 mg/day. Although significant elevation of plasma prolactin levels (unrelated to dosage and duration of treatment) occurred in all domperidone recipients, prolactin-related adverse events were observed in only 10 to 20% of patients.
