Detection of Epstein-Barr virus in Malt type gastric malignant lymphoma using in situ hybridization]	The aim of our study was to look for Epstein Barr virus (EBV) genome by in situ hybridization in 23 MALT gastric lymphomas. 15 cases were of low grade, and 8 were of high grade malignancy. We obtained a positive result in 3 cases (13%) of low grade lymphomas. EBV was present in few centrocyte-like and centroblastic cells. Literature review shows an EBV infection rate varying between 8 and 12% with variables results which don't allow strong and reliable conclusion. An etiopathogenic role for EBV in Malt gastric lymphoma remain yet hypothetic.
Gastrointestinal cancer and herpes zoster in adults.	Herpes zoster is associated with immunosuppression, and also has an increased risk of malignancy. The aim of this study is to determine whether patients with Herpes zoster are at a higher risk of occult malignancy and gastrointestinal diseases.
Lytic induction and apoptosis of Epstein-Barr virus-associated gastric cancer cell line with epigenetic modifiers and ganciclovir.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is an oncogenic herpes virus. EBV gene transcription is regulated by an epigenetic mechanism to establish a persistent infection and to evade the host immune system. We found that low concentrations of epigenetic modifying agents, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR) or trichostatin A (TSA), induced the expression of BMRF1, BZLF1, and BRLF1 genes, which are found in the lytic form of the virus, in an EBV-positive gastric cancer cell line. This effect did not involve PI3 kinase, MAP/ERK kinase, protein kinase C delta, or p38 MAPK signaling pathway. The cytotoxic effect of ganciclovir (GCV) was enhanced after the lytic induction by epigenetic modifiers, and the combination of GCV and epigenetic modifiers induced apoptosis, which is dependent on caspases. In conclusion, the combination of GCV with 5-aza-CdR or TSA might be a useful therapeutic strategy for EBV-induced human gastric cancer.
Expression of viral microRNAs in Epstein-Barr virus-associated gastric carcinoma.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with about 6 to 16% of gastric carcinoma cases worldwide. Expression of the EBV microRNAs (miRNAs) was observed in B cells and nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells infected with EBV. However, it is not clear if the EBV miRNAs are expressed in EBV-associated gastric carcinomas (EBVaGCs). We found that BART miRNAs but not BHRF1 miRNAs were expressed in EBV-infected gastric carcinoma cell lines and the tumor tissues from patients as well as the animal model. The expression of viral miRNAs in EBVaGCs suggests that these EBV miRNAs may play important roles in the tumorigenesis of EBVaGCs.
Carboxyl-terminal sequence variation of latent membrane protein 1 gene in Epstein-Barr virus-associated gastric carcinomas from Eastern China and Japan.	To elucidate variations of latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated gastric carcinoma (EBVaGC) and explore the LMP1 variations of neighboring countries, China and Japan.
Expression profile of latent and lytic transcripts of epstein-barr virus in patients with gastroduodenal diseases: a study from northern India.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been shown to be associated with gastric cancer. However, inconsistent findings have been reported regarding the EBV reactivation in gastric cancer and non-carcinomatous gastric epithelium. Therefore, the aim of the study was to investigate the effect of clinicopathological findings on the expression of different transcripts of EBV in patients with gastric cancer, peptic ulcer, and dyspepsia. A total of 200 adult patients (dyspepsia [120], peptic ulcer [30], gastric cancer [50]) undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy were enrolled. EBV infection was diagnosed with non-polymorphic Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen1 (EBNA1) gene based PCR and confirmed by real-time PCR. The transcripts of EBV were detected by real-time RT-PCR. In patients with gastric cancer and peptic ulcer, EBV DNA was detected more often than in those with dyspepsia (P < 0.05). EBNA1 transcript was detected in all EBV positive cases and its expression was neither associated with disease nor with histopathological findings. The expression of BZLF1 was significantly associated with gastric cancer and peptic ulcer compared to dyspepsia (P < 0.01). BZLF1 expression was also found to be higher in Helicobacter pylori infected patients (P = 0.058). Expression of BARF1 and BcLF1 were significantly higher in gastric epithelium of patients having severe grade chronic inflammation (P = 0.05) and gastric atrophy (P = 0.02), respectively. In conclusion, increased expression of lytic transcripts in patients with gastric cancer, peptic ulcer, gastric atrophy, chronic inflammation and H. pylori infection suggests the association of these factors with EBV reactivation.
In situ detection of the Epstein-Barr virus-encoded nuclear antigen 1 in oral hairy leukoplakia and virus-associated carcinomas.	A new monoclonal antibody has been used to examine immunohistochemically the expression of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded nuclear antigen (EBNA) 1 in virus-associated epithelial lesions. EBNA1 was detected in the tumour cell nuclei of 10/13 undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinomas and of 10/10 EBV-associated gastric carcinomas. EBNA1 was also detected in 13 of 16 oral hairy leukoplakia (HL) samples, where its expression was confined to nuclei in the upper epithelial cell layers whilst basal epithelial cells were negative. This observation is in agreement with previous studies demonstrating the absence of latent EBV infection in the basal cell compartment of HL and suggests an essential role for EBNA1, not only in latent EBV infection but also in virus replication.
