Somatostatin receptor imaging of endocrine gastrointestinal tumors.	Somatostatin receptors are present on various tumors of neuroendocrine origin. We recently developed a technique for the in vivo visualization of somatostatin receptor positive tumors, which offers a powerful alternative to tumor imaging with labeled monoclonal antibodies. Instead of injecting radiolabeled antibodies against the somatostatin receptor, we labeled a somatostatin analogue ([Tyr3]-octreotide) which is known to bind specifically to the somatostatin receptor, and injected this labeled hormone analogue in order to visualize somatostatin receptor positive tumors. We previously reported the successful visualization of the primary tumors or metastases of various endocrine gastrointestinal tumors after injection of the iodinated somatostatin analogue [123I-Tyr3]-octreotide. The primary tumors or metastases of 12 out of 13 carcinoids, 3 out of 3 gastrinomas, 2 out of 4 insulinomas, and 1 out of 1 somatostatinoma were visualized. Using 111In-coupled octreotide, we were able to visualize 19 out of 19 carcinoids, 7 out of 7 gastrinomas, 4 out of 7 insulinomas, 1 out of 1 glucagonoma, and 3 out of 3 non-functioning endocrine pancreatic tumors, but none of 18 exocrine pancreatic tumors. In a large proportion of patients with endocrine gastrointestinal tumors, previously unrecognized metastases were demonstrated. Also, the absence or presence of in vivo visualization of these tumors after the injection of radiolabeled octreotide seems to predict the ability of octreotide therapy to control symptoms caused by hormonal secretion from these tumors.
Sentinel nodes of malignancies originating in the alimentary tract.	The feasibility of the sentinel node concept for malignancies originating in the alimentary tract is attracting much interest among researchers in the field of gastrointestinal oncology. We have tested more than 350 such cases and obtained favorable and promising initial results. The detectability of sentinel nodes using endoscopically injected Tc-99m tin colloid for these tumors exceeded 90%. Although the false negative ratio was not so low (approximately 10%), most of these cases had an inaccurate preoperative evaluation of mural invasion and/or a technically unfavorable injection. When the indication is restricted to patients with early-stage disease, and when the radioactive colloid is properly administered, sentinel node navigation therapy would be applicable for gastrointestinal malignancies. To achieve successful sentinel node navigation surgery it is essential to accurately identify sentinel nodes, and lymphoscintigraphy is a very useful test to confirm the location of sentinel nodes preoperatively. However, image processing is required for lymphoscintigrams because the original image depicts only high activity at the injection site and faint radioactivity in the sentinel nodes. We have clearly imaged the silhouette of the body using Compton scattered photons, and have also proposed several methods to improve the contrast between the injection sites and sentinel nodes. Many sentinel nodes can be clearly visualized by subtraction of the background activity with heterogeneous distribution. The development of the portable gamma camera, enabling intraoperative imaging, also contributes to less invasive biopsy of sentinel nodes. We have obtained promising initial results using a portable imaging device with semiconductor detectors. These promising results suggest that sentinel node navigation therapy including radiotherapy will be a new therapy for early-stage gastrointestinal malignancies in the near future, with nuclear medicine contributing to the establishment of new, less invasive therapies for gastrointestinal cancer.
Improvement in preoperative staging of gastric adenocarcinoma with positron emission tomography.	Positron emission tomography (PET) with 18- fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) has been used to both detect and stage a variety of malignancies. The current study examined the value of PET for preoperative staging of gastric adenocarcinoma.
Early gastric cancer and early colon cancer detected simultaneously by PET cancer screening incidentally.	We report a case of early gastric cancer and early colon cancer detected by positron emission tomography (PET) cancer screening. A 64-year-old male patient with an unremarkable past history except for hypertension and cerebrovascular disease underwent 18F-FDG PET for cancer screening. Images revealed increased uptake in the gastric antrum and sigmoid colon. Both areas appeared suspicious for neoplasm on subsequent fluoroscopy and endoscopy, and biopsies were positive for neoplasia at both sites. The gastric lesion was treated by distal gastrectomy and D2 lymphadenectomy and the colon cancer by endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR). Both surgical specimens were positive for cancer.
Findings of fluorine-18-FDG PET in extranodal origin lymphoma--in three cases of diffuse large B cell type lymphoma.	F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) is an excellent modality for non-invasive functional imaging of malignant lymphoma and is highly sensitive and specific for the detection of lymphoma lesions. Here, we report the findings of FDG-PET for three cases of diffuse large B cell type lymphoma (DLBCL) with extranodal tumors in the breast, stomach, and liver plus spleen, respectively. The whole body FDG-PET findings showed no evidence of lymph node (LN) involvement or distant metastasis. Strong FDG accumulations were observed in the only extranodal sites by whole body FDG-PET. Therefore, we could confirm that these cases were extranodal primary origins. Whole body PET is useful to determine the primary sites, that is, extranodal origin DLBCL with its clear images.
Contributions of nuclear medicine to the diagnosis and follow-up of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors]	The optimal treatment of patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors requires accurate staging. Nuclear medicine is an imaging technique that provides functional information. In gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors this information is obtained from radiotracers providing data on amine synthesis (MIBG) and/or somatostatin receptor expression (111-In-octreotide, 68Galio-DOTATOC) by the tumoral cell, both in primary and metastatic tumors. The accumulated experience shows that nuclear medicine techniques are essential in the management of these patients. The indications in the diagnosis, extension study and follow-up of these tumors, as well as the distinct radiotracers available, are reviewed.
Palliative first-line therapy with weekly high-dose 5-fluorouracil and sodium folinic acid as a 24-hour infusion (AIO regimen) combined with weekly irinotecan in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or esophagogastric junction followed by secondary metastatic resection after downsizing.	The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of weekly high-dose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/folinic acid (FA) as 24-h infusion (AIO regimen) plus irinotecan in patients with histologically proven metastatic gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma (UICC stage IV).
Radiolabeled sucralfate: a review of clinical efficacy.	Radiolabeled sucralfate has been utilized by several investigators to evaluate peptic ulcer, active inflammatory bowel disease, esophageal ulcer, and gastric cancer. A review of the available literature indicates that radiolabeled sucralfate has been used to evaluate peptic ulcer and active inflammatory bowel diseases with high sensitivity and specificity. Other possible uses of radiolabeled sucralfate which have been less thoroughly studied and for which data are inadequate to accurately determine sensitivity and specificity include the detection of gastric cancer and esophageal ulceration.
Indium 111 antimyosin for the detection of leiomyosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma.	111In-antimyosin monoclonal antibody complex passes through damaged myocardial cell membranes and binds to the intracellular myosin. Normal myocardial and other muscle cells show no uptake. Rhabdomyosarcoma and Leiomyosarcoma cells also contain intracellular myosin and the cell membrane permeability is greater than normal. Significant uptake of 111In-antimyosin was observed in patients with Leiomyosarcoma and Rhabdomyosarcoma suggesting that the reagent has a potential for the in vivo detection of these tumour types. Tumour to background ratios of 10:1 were measured in one case and in view of the fact that the site of accumulation is intracellular, antimyosin may have a potential as a carrier for therapeutic agents.
Comparative biodistributions and rates of catabolism of radiolabelled anti-CEA monoclonal antibody and control immunoglobulin in nude mice with human tumour xenografts showing specific antibody localization.	The rate of catabolism of a radiolabelled monoclonal anti-CEA antibody has been compared with that of control IgG1 in control nude mice and in mice with CEA producing xenografts and antigen negative xenografts. The rate of catabolism of antibody, but not of IgG, was increased 3-4 fold in mice with xenografts localizing the antibody, but not in mice with antigen negative tumours. There was no evidence of immune complex formation and/or clearance of antibody from the serum of xenografted mice and the current interpretation of these findings is that following tumour immune directed fixation, antibody is subsequently catabolized faster than in the general metabolic pool. The present data indicates that this is about six times as rapid as in the animal as a whole on a weight to weight tissue basis.
Technetium-99m serum albumin measurement of gastrointestinal protein loss in a subtotal gastrectomy patient with giant hypertrophic gastritis.	Gastrointestinal protein loss was measured using Tc-99m labeled human serum albumin in a patient with giant hypertrophic gastritis. Gastric secretion was aspirated via a nasogastric tube and measured for radioactivity after intravenous injection of Tc-99m albumin. Assessment of radioactivity of the collected gastric secretion yielded a total radiocount of 98.7 kilocounts per minute within 6 hours, which is equivalent to 1.1% of the total dose. Therefore, at least 1.1% of the circulating albumin was excreted into the gastric cavity within 6 hours, and, since simultaneous abdominal imaging did not demonstrate obvious accumulation of tracer in the gastrointestinal tract, protein loss was thought to be due to giant gastric rugae of the resected stomach. It was concluded that Tc-99m albumin is a valuable means for detection of the site of protein loss in patients with protein-losing gastroenteropathy. This method has several advantages in the clinical setting; it is less time consuming, easy to perform, and provides quantitative and qualitative assessment of protein loss.
Imaging of somatostatin receptor using 111In-pentetreotide]	Recently radiolabeled somatostatin analog, [111In]pentetreotide, was developed and its usefulness for the diagnosis and localization of neuroendocrine tumors has been described. In this paper, we reported the results of [111In]pentetreotide scintigraphy in four patients with gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors. Two patients with metastatic gastrinoma, one patient with gastric carcinoid, and one patient suspected with gastrinoma, were injected with 119-156 MBq of [111In]pentetreotide. Planar and SPECT images were obtained 4, 24, and 48 hours postinjection. Both primary and metastatic tumors were well visualized in patients with metastatic gastrinoma. Especially in one patient small liver metastases which were not detected by CT or MRI were imaged. We could not obtain positive images in the other two patients. Four-hour or 24-hr images were better than 48-hr images because of higher count density and lower gut activity. No significant adverse effect were seen in any patient. [111In]pentetreotide scintigraphy is a useful procedure for the localization of gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors.
Metastatic pulmonary, gastric, and renal calcification demonstrated on bone scintigraphy in a patient with malignant melanoma and renal failure.	This case report describes the clinical, scintigraphic, and pathologic findings in a patient with an unexpected finding of a cutaneous malignant melanoma.
