Preschool vision screening in pediatric practice: a study from the Pediatric Research in Office Settings (PROS) Network. American Academy of Pediatrics.	In this cross-sectional study, the vision-screening process is described for 8417 children aged 3 to 5 seen for health supervision in a group of 102 pediatric practices in 23 states and Puerto Rico. Three hundred forty children who failed screening (63% of those who failed) were followed up 2 months after initial screening. The sample was 52% male, 86% white, 9% black, 3% Hispanic, and 1% Asian. Vision screening was attempted on 66% of children overall. Pediatricians' reasons for not screening were "not routine" (44%), "too young" (40%), and "screening done previously" (17%). Younger children were less likely to be screened than older children (39% of those aged 3), and Hispanics were less likely to be screened than other ethnic groups (P less than .001). Thirty-three percent of children received no screening for latent strabismus. Two months later, 50% of parents whose child had failed a vision test were unaware of this fact on questionnaire follow-up. Eighty-five percent of children referred to an eye specialist had made or kept an appointment. It is concluded that pediatricians need to increase vision screening among younger preschool children and communicate more effectively to parents the results of screening failure.
Amblyogenic anisometropia in the contralateral eye in unicoronal craniosynostosis.	To describe the prevalence and nature of anisometropic refractive errors in children with unilateral coronal craniosynostosis.
Amblyopia risk factor prevalence.	In 2003, the American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus (AAPOS) published a set of risk factors for amblyopia. The intent was to promote uniformity of reporting and development in screening. Because this prevalence is not yet known, this meta-analysis is an attempt to estimate it.
Alcohol use and positive screening results for depression and anxiety are highly prevalent among Chinese children with strabismus.	To study associations between strabismus and alcohol use, anxiety, and depression among 10- to 17-year-old children in Guangdong, southern China.
Population study of fixation disparity, heterophoria, and vergence.	Data on phorias, vergences, and fixation disparities were gathered for distant and near viewing conditions from a nonclinical, young adult population. Normative values were computed from the data for analysis and comparison. Our study revealed slightly less exophoria at far and near than Morgan's study, together with large base-out vergence readings. We found proportionately more esophores with exo fixation disparity who require base-in prism to neutralize the fixation disparity than Ogle's studies found.
Perinatal predictors of ocular morbidity in school children who were very low birthweight.	Two hundred children from one neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), who were very low birthweight (VLBW), were examined at approximately 9 years of age and compared with a control group of normal birthweight children. Visual morbidity was significantly higher among children who were very low birthweight. Binocular visual acuity of 6/9 or worse was noted in 21 (10.5%), strabismus in 38 (19%) and regressed retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in 13 (6.7%) of these children. A history of seizures in the perinatal period was highly correlated with poor visual acuity. Independently significant factors associated with strabismus included clinically diagnosed intraventricular haemorrhage, a maternal history of neonatal death, transfer from another hospital, bronchopulmonary dysplasia and necrotising enterocolitis. Perinatal variables that correlated with regressed ROP included birthweight, time from birth to admission to the NICU, necrotising enterocolitis and a history of maternal smoking during the pregnancy. When screening for ocular abnormalities among children who were born preterm, particular attention should be given to children with these risk factors.
