Strabismus surgery in Grave's disease--dose-effect relationships and functional results]	Strabismus in thyroid ophthalmopathy is based on a loss of the contractility and distensibility of the external ocular muscles. Different therapeutic approaches are available, such as recession after pre-. or intraoperative measurement, adjustable sutures, antagonist resection, or contralateral synergist faden-operation.
Electromyograph assistance and Mendonça's forceps--a comparison between two methods of botulinum toxin A injection into the extraocular muscle]	To compare two methods of botulinum toxin A (BTA) injection into the extraocular muscle (EOM): the electromyographically (EMG) guided injection and the injection using Mendonça's forceps.
Modern management of sixth nerve palsy.	Between November 1982 and September 1991, 179 patients with unilateral or bilateral sixth nerve palsy were treated in the Botulinum Toxin Strabismus Clinic at Moorfields Eye Hospital. Indications for treatment included prophylaxis (as part of a prospective treatment trial), maintenance therapy, diagnosis and adjunct to surgical therapy. A management plan for established sixth nerve palsy based on the rational use of toxin and surgery is suggested.
The application of botulinum toxin A in the treatment of restrictive strabismus in thyroid associated ophthalmopathy]	To observe the clinical effects of botulinum toxin A in the treatment of restrictive strabismus in thyroid associated ophthalmopathy (TAO).
Presence of fusion in albinism after strabismus surgery augmented with botulinum toxin (type a) injection.	It is commonly accepted that albino patients with strabismus rarely achieve binocularity and depth perception after strabismus surgery. The presence of retino-geniculo-cortical misrouting, a hallmark of the visual system in albinism, does not necessarily cause total loss of binocular vision, however, not even in albino patients with strabismus. Recently some degrees of stereopsis were reported in albinism patients with minimal clinical nystagmus, if any, in the absence of strabismus. It is possible that patients with albinism and strabismus have binocular visual potential which appears after strabismus correction and provides appropriate postoperative alignment in the long term. Here we present two cases of clinically diagnosed oculocutaneous albinism, an 18-year-old girl and a 16-year-old boy, both with exotropia ≥40 prism diopter, who gained acceptable alignment and fusion after surgical correction of their strabismus as demonstrated on Bagolini testing. In cases of albinism accompanied by visual pathway abnormalities and strabismus, binocular visual potential is not impossible, and some levels can be expected. Thus, these patients, like other cases of strabismus, may benefit from treatment of strabismus at an earlier age to achieve appropriate alignment, cosmetic satisfaction, and a possibly increased chance of fusion. 
The effect of a temperature-sensitive poloxamer-alginate-CaCl2 mixture after strabismus surgery in a rabbit model.	To determine the efficacy of a temperature-sensitive poloxamer-alginate mixture in reducing adhesions after strabismus surgery in a rabbit model.
Treatment of strabismus with botulinum toxin]	Having used botulinum toxin for four years, we describe our experience in one hundred squinting patients and compare our results with the literature. We have good results in unilateral sixth nerve palsy and small deviations with binocular potential. Botulinum toxin can also be helpful in third and fourth nerve palsy, in Graves' ophthalmopathy, as an adjunct to transposition surgery and in cases of under- or overcorrections after surgery. In cases of muscle fibrosis and wide angle strabismus, the results are more disappointing. We describe an original method of conditioning the toxin in individual doses which eases the botulinum consultation processing.
