Beating the odds.	The five core causes of health claims can be reduced if organizations focus on the "at-risk" employees who compose 10 percent of the workforce.
The role of the workplace in the production and containment of health costs: the case of stress-related disorders.	Workplaces vary enormously in the amount of harmful stress they produce, even within specific economic sectors. Stress of certain kinds and at certain levels tend to produce health harms and costs that are borne not only by individual employees and employers but also by families and society at large. Variations in stress levels within economic sectors can be traced to variations in management practices that govern key conditions of work involving demand, effort, control and reward. The costs of stress-related disorders produced by adverse governance practices are transferred outside the workplace in varying degrees. The actual extent of this cost transfer depends on policies and programs within the workplace. We can characterize workplaces according to a typology in which the key dimensions are commitment to abate harm through participatory management practices and the effectiveness and efficiency of harm containment through programs such as employee assistance and health promotion. The most health-promoting and cost-avoiding workplaces foster high control, high reward conditions and support employees with employee assistance and health promotion programs. The policy implications of this observation are drawn out.
Economic value to parents of reducing the pain and emotional distress of childhood vaccine injections.	One reason that recommended childhood immunizations due at child health visits are deferred is to avoid the pain and emotional distress associated with the increasing number of injections required. This deferral leads to additional visits and costs and reduced immunoprotection against vaccine-preventable illnesses. To assess the economic value of combination vaccines that address this problem, we surveyed parents to determine the amount they would be willing to pay to avoid the pain and emotional distress experienced by their infants from injections.
Effect of compensation on emotional state and disability in chronic back pain.	The adversarial nature of some compensation systems could be a major source of psychological stress. To investigate this, we measured emotional state, pain and disability in 19 compensation recipients and in 18 others who had settled their claim for lower back pain. All subjects were unemployed, and sex distribution was similar in both groups. Compensation recipients showed more signs of emotional distress, had greater difficulty coping with pain, and reported that pain disrupted various aspects of their life to a greater degree than subjects who had settled their claim. However, even after settlement, there was clear evidence of emotional distress. The promise of a financial windfall on settlement of a claim could discourage workers from resuming employment after injury. Unfortunately, this course of action increases the risk of pain becoming chronic and of unemployment and financial hardship continuing after settlement. To prevent this potentially disastrous situation, the compensation system should encourage workers to resume some type of employment as soon as possible after injury.
Efficacy and medical cost offset of psychosocial interventions in cancer care: making the case for economic analyses.	The burden of cancer in the worldwide context continues to grow, as incidence and mortality increase each year. Regardless of where they live, a significant proportion of cancer patients at all stages of the disease trajectory will suffer social, emotional and psychological morbidity as a result of their diagnosis and treatment. Psychosocial interventions have proven efficacious in helping patients and families overcome many of the challenges that arise consequent to a cancer diagnosis. Addressing psychosocial needs is an essential aspect of any model of adequate cancer care, however it may also prove to be a cornerstone in efforts to extend the reach of cost-effective cancer treatment to meet the growing global need. In order to set the stage for discussion of economic issues, this paper first briefly reviews the literature detailing the extent of distress and the efficacy of psychosocial treatments for cancer patients. This is followed by a summary of terminology and costing concepts in the economic evaluation of psychosocial treatments, and a review of the literature on medical cost offset in mental health, other medical populations, and in cancer patients. The literature clearly supports the notion that psychosocial interventions are not only effective, but also economical. Conclusions support adding costing data into evaluations of the efficacy of psychosocial treatments in order to detail the often present but usually overlooked long-term cost savings that may be accrued to overburdened health-care systems.
Psychological distress after employment transitions: the role of subjective financial position as a mediator.	To explore the extent to which the mental health effects of transitions into unemployment, or other forms of non-employment, and vice versa, are mediated by financial changes.
Is cumulative exposure to economic hardships more hazardous to women's health than men's? A 16-year follow-up study of the Swedish Survey of Living Conditions.	Previous research has shown an association between cumulative economic hardships and various health outcomes. However, the cumulative effects of economic hardships in regard to gender differences have not been given enough attention.
Precarious existence and deteriorating work conditions for women in India: implications for health.	The Indian economy has experienced economic growth post-1991 but has demonstrated an inability to generate adequate employment and even less of "quality" employment for much of its labor force. This article is based on data collected from conversations with women workers on the theme of "women, work and health," with an emphasis on, one, task allotment and working conditions in the household; and two, those related to conditions of work at the worksite and the gendered experience of such work. While narratives cannot establish causality between particular work environments and related adverse outcomes, they nevertheless provide crucial insights into what is likely to be blighting these women's lives. Advocates of women's work outside their home need to pay attention to both their remuneration for work and the costs to their health and well-being of such employment, so that policies aimed at employment generation also are sensitive to the adverse outcomes of such employment.
Foreclosure and health status.	In 2009, more than 2.8 million housing units in the U.S. received a foreclosure notice. That represents about 1 in every 45 properties and a 120% increase in the number of foreclosed properties since 2007. Real estate experts predict even more foreclosures in 2010 as high unemployment continues. The cascading effects of the foreclosure crisis on the U.S. economy are all too clear; the effects on individuals' health status are less obvious. This Issue Brief summarizes two studies that examine the health implications of foreclosure and reveal a vulnerable population that may benefit from coordinated health and financial services.
Famines past, famine's future.	Famine, like poverty, has always been with us. No region and no century has been immune. Its scars — economic, psychological and political — can long outlast its immediate impact on mortality and health. Famines are a hallmark of economic backwardness, and were thus more likely to occur in the pre-industrialized past. Yet the twentieth century suffered some of the most devastating ever recorded. That century also saw shifts in both the causes and symptoms of famine. This new century's famines have been "small" by historical standards, and the threat of major ones seemingly confined to ever-smaller pockets of the globe. Are these shifts a sign of hope for the future?
Families, children, migration and AIDS.	Migration is very often a family affair, and often involves children, directly or indirectly. It may give rise to better quality of life for an entire family, or to bitter disappointment, and may also increase vulnerability to HIV and AIDS. This review, carried out for the Joint Learning Initiative on Children and AIDS, links the literature on "migration", on "HIV and AIDS" and on "families". Three themes are sketched: (1) As both HIV prevalence and circular migration increase, former migrant workers affected by AIDS may return to their families for care and support, especially at the end of life, often under crisis conditions. Families thus lose promising members, as well as sources of support. However, very little is known about the children of such migrants. (2) Following patterns of migration established for far different reasons, children may have to relocate to different places, sometimes over long distances, if their AIDS-affected parents can no longer care for them. They face the same adaptation challenges as other children who move, but complicated by loss of parent(s), AIDS stigma, and often poverty. (3) The issue of migrant families living with HIV has been studied to some extent, but mainly in developed countries with a long history of migration, and with little attention paid to the children in such families. Difficulties include involuntary separation from family members, isolation and lack of support, disclosure and planning for children's care should the parent(s) die and differences in treatment access within the same family. Numerous research and policy gaps are defined regarding the three themes, and a call is made for thinking about migration, families and AIDS to go beyond description to include resilience theory, and to go beyond prevention to include care.
Cost effectiveness of a community-based crisis intervention program for people bereaved by suicide.	Postvention services aim to ameliorate distress and reduce future incidences of suicide. The StandBy Response Service is one such service operating in Australia for those bereaved through suicide. Few previous studies have reported estimates or evaluations of the economic impact and outcomes associated with the implementation of bereavement/grief interventions.
Hospitals are high-stress employers.	Studies show that hospitals are particularly stressful employers, so hospital managers need to be more mindful of the symptoms of stress and coping techniques.
