Group A streptococcal infections in children.	The group A streptococcus causes the widest range of disease in humans of all bacterial pathogens. Group A streptococcal diseases are more common in children than adults with diseases ranging from pharyngitis and impetigo to invasive infections and the post-streptococcal sequelae--acute rheumatic fever and acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis. The global burden of severe group A streptococcal disease is concentrated largely in developing countries and Indigenous populations such as Aboriginal Australians. Control of group A streptococcal disease is poor in these settings and the need for a vaccine has been argued. With an ever-increasing understanding of the group A streptococcus at a molecular level, new and sophisticated vaccines are currently in human trials and the next decade holds exciting prospects for curbing group A streptococcal diseases.
Prevention of bacterial respiratory infection by an association of bacterial ribosomes and membranous proteoglycans. 2. Objective assessment of the response and of the immunological stimulation.	Using a vaccine preparation administered by aerosol for respiratory anti-infectious purposes and corresponding to the original formula of ribosomes and membrane fractions of microbial germs, the authors investigated during a period of nine months whether an objective, transient or lasting stimulation of the total and specific immunoglobulin (Ig) appeared. They provide a statistical analysis based on several serum Ig measurements and demonstrate the stimulant and lasting effect of the vaccine in the production of specific Ig for a sample of patients compared with controls. In those treated they observed apparently disordered variations of the serum levels of the total Ig, which in fact correspond to the initiation of a dynamic equilibrium in relation to the immunogenicity of the vaccine, the initial level of the total Ig and the production of the specific Ig. Finally, after a booster sequence carried out five month after "primary vaccination", they established the restarting of production of specific Ig accompanied this time by a different dynamic response of the total Ig.
