Aqueous phase hexylchloroformate derivatization and solid phase microextraction: determination of benzoylecgonine in urine by gas chromatography-quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry.	A derivatization/solid phase microextraction (SPME) method for the determination of benzoylecgonine in urine was developed. The derivatization is conducted directly in 1 mL of urine while sonicating for 3 min with 12 microL of hexyl chloroformate and 70 microL of a mixture containing acetonitrile:water:hexanol:2-dimethylaminopyridine (5:2:2:1 v/v), yielding benzoylecgonine hexyl ester (BHE) as the product. After the 3 min period, an aliquot of 250 microL is transferred to a vial for SPME. After the desired extraction time the 100 microns polydimethylsiloxane SPME fiber was transferred to the GC-MS for separation and analysis with a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer. The hexyl chloroformate derivatization and SPME procedures were optimized for compatibility and sensitivity. The method was found linear for 0.10 to 20.0 micrograms/mL (r2 = 0.999) of benzoylecgonine in urine using benzoylecgonine-d3 as an internal standard (1.5 micrograms/mL). Intra-day precisions were 8.8 and 6.8% RSD for 0.30 microgram/mL and 17 micrograms/mL benzoylecgonine standards in urine (n = 6), respectively. Inter-day precision (n = 3) were < or = 3.3% RSD, indicating good reproducibility. A detection limit of 0.03 microgram/mL (S/N = 3) was achieved, thus making the SPME method a simplified alternative to SPE for GC-MS confirmation after EMIT tests for benzoylecgonine which have a cutoff of 0.30 microgram/mL. Quantitative results by SPME and SPE of two clinical urine specimens known positive for cocaine by EMIT were in excellent agreement. Benzoylecgonine was detected by the derivatization/SPME method in 22 out of 22 other urine specimens known positive for cocaine.
Rapid screening of drugs of abuse and their metabolites by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry: application to urinalysis.	This paper describes a rapid gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric (GC/MS) screening method for the detection of drugs of abuse and/or their metabolites in urine. Synthetic stimulants, opiates, cocaine metabolites, cannabinoids--and specifically the acid metabolite of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-COOH)--can be simultaneously extracted by a single liquid/liquid separation step, at alkaline pH, and assayed as trimethylsilyl derivatives by GC/MS in SIM (selected ion monitoring) mode. All the analytes show a good linearity (R2 > 0.99 for most of the considered substances) in the range 25-1000 ng/mL, with a good reproducibility of both the retention times (CV% <0.7) and the relative abundances of the characteristic diagnostic ions (CV% <13). The limit of detection (LOD) of the method is 25 ng/mL of target compound in human urine for most of the substances investigated, 3 ng/mL for THC-COOH, and 10 ng/mL for norbuprenorphine. Validation of the method allows its application to different fields of forensic analytical toxicology, including antidoping analysis.
Problem drinking in relation to treatment outcome among opiate addicts in methadone maintenance treatment.	This study analyzed indicators of alcohol-related problems in opiate addicts before, during, and after leaving methadone maintenance treatment (MMT), in relation to illicit drug use and retention in treatment. The study was based on 204 patients, admitted to MMT for the first time between 1 January 1995 and 31 July 2000, and followed until 31 December 2000. Three measures were used to indicate alcohol use and alcohol-related problems; records of hospital care with an alcohol-related diagnosis, any treatment with alcohol-sensitizing drugs (disulfiram or calcium carbimide) during MMT, and results of the 5-hydroxytryptophol to 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid ratio (5HTOL/5HIAA) in urine, a sensitive biomarker for recent drinking. Use of illicit drugs was determined by routine urine drug testing. About one third of the patients (n = 69) had a lifetime prevalence of hospital treatment for an alcohol-related diagnosis, 45 of whom had been hospitalized (mean 4.2 stays) prior to the start of MMT. There was a significant association (p<0.05) between the number of alcohol-related diagnoses prior to treatment and a positive 5HTOL/5HIAA test during MMT. The alcohol indicators first became positive on average 1.6 years after admission to treatment, compared with after about 4 months for illicit drugs. Use of cannabis or benzodiazepines was significantly associated with alcohol use. Female methadone patients with indications of alcohol-related problems relapsed more often into illicit drug use than did women without such indications (3.9 vs. 2.5 relapse periods/year; p<0.005), whereas no significant association was found for men. The results of the present study indicate that drinking problems among patients undergoing MMT is associated with an increased risk of relapse into illicit drug use and with discharge from treatment. Concurrent treatment of alcohol-related problems, including systematic monitoring of alcohol use, therefore should be recommended to reduce the risk for relapse into illicit drug use and improve overall treatment outcome in MMT.
Management of hepatitis C among drug users attending general practice in Ireland: baseline data from the Dublin area hepatitis C in general practice initiative.	In Ireland, general practice is increasingly providing long-term care for injecting drug users, 62-81% of whom are infected with hepatitis C (HCV). Clinical guidelines for the management of HCV among drug users have recently been developed in Ireland, and this study aimed to describe HCV care among drug users attending general practice in the greater Dublin area, prior to the implementation of the clinical practice guidelines.
Drug and alcohol involvement in railroad accidents.	Postaccident testing of railroad employees for drugs and alcohol was performed in 175 qualifying accidents or incidents (events) from April 1987 through March 1988. Initial tests for drugs were performed on urine, and for alcohol on blood. Presumptive positives were confirmed and quantitated using both blood and urine when available. In 42 of these events (24%), at least 1 employee tested positive (6.7% of 736 employees) for drugs or alcohol. A higher proportion of drug or alcohol-positive events, or both, 40 versus 21%, was found when a fatality was involved. In 11 of the 32 fully investigated drug or alcohol-positive events (involving 14 employees), the investigating agencies determined that substance use was determined to be a probable cause of, or a factor relating to, the accident. Cannabinoids, ethanol, cocaine, or multiple-drug use were found in 5, 3, 3, and 3 of those employees, respectively. Detectable drug and alcohol use occurs among railroad employees; occasionally it has resulted in accidents.
'False-positive' and 'false-negative' test results in clinical urine drug testing.	The terms 'false-positive' and 'false-negative' are widely used in discussions of urine drug test (UDT) results. These terms are inadequate because they are used in different ways by physicians and laboratory professionals and they are too narrow to encompass the larger universe of potentially misleading, inappropriate and unexpected drug test results. This larger universe, while not solely comprised of technically 'true' or 'false' positive or negative test results, presents comparable interpretive challenges with corresponding clinical implications. In this review, we propose the terms 'potentially inappropriate' positive or negative test results in reference to UDT results that are ambiguous or unexpected and subject to misinterpretation. Causes of potentially inappropriate positive UDT results include in vivo metabolic conversions of a drug, exposure to nonillicit sources of a drug and laboratory error. Causes of potentially inappropriate negative UDT results include limited assay specificity, absence of drug in the urine, presence of drug in the urine, but below established assay cutoff, specimen manipulation and laboratory error. Clinical UDT interpretation is a complicated task requiring knowledge of recent prescription, over-the-counter and herbal drug administration, drug metabolism and analytical sensitivities and specificities.
Detection of p-chloroamphetamine in urine samples with mass spectrometry.	Designer drugs are introduced periodically to avoid detection and to provide new drugs with different pharmacological activities. During our routine analysis of amphetamine in urine samples, we observed one sample that reacted with immunoassay with high activity. There is one prominent peak in the gas chromatography- mass spectrometry (GC-MS) chromatogram. However, no amphetamine, methamphetamine, MDA, MDMA, MDEA, or ephedrine was detected with GC-MS. Careful examination of the mass spectrum indicated the presence of one fragment ion (m/z 140), which is similar to the base peak of trifluoroacetic anhydride derivative of amphetamine. The characteristic ion cluster representing the presence of one chlorine atom was observed. Investigation with liquid chromatography (LC)-MS detected an unknown compound with molecular ion of m/z 170. This compound was tentatively identified as chloroamphetamine. Pure standard material of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) was purchased and analyzed with both GC-MS and LC-MS. Identical GC-MS spectra and LC-MS-MS fragmentation patterns were obtained. A GC-MS procedure was developed for the quantitation of PCA. The limits of detection and quantification were 10 μg/L. Precision was between 1.26% and 4.26%, and bias was between -0.91% and 4.27%. The prevalence PCA positive rate is 0.35% of the samples screened positive for amphetamine.
A comparison of the validity of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of urine samples II: amphetamine, methamphetamine, (±)-3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, (±)-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, (±)-3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine, phencyclidine, and (±)-11-nor-9-carboxy-Δ⁹-tetrahydrocannabinol.	On November 25, 2008, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services posted a final notice in the Federal Register authorizing the use of liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) and other technologies in federally regulated workplace drug testing (WPDT) programs. To support this change, it is essential to explicitly demonstrate that LC-MS-MS, as a technology, can produce results at least as valid as gas chromatography (GC)-MS, the long-accepted standard in confirmatory analytical technologies for drugs of abuse. A series of manufactured control urine samples (n = 10 for each analyte) containing amphetamine, methamphetamine, (±)-3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, (±)-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, (±)-3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine, phencyclidine, and (±)-11-nor-9-carboxy-Δ⁹-tetrahydrocannabinol at concentrations ranging from 10% to 2000% of federal cutoffs were analyzed with replication by five federally regulated laboratories using GC-MS and at RTI International using LC-MS-MS. Interference samples as described in the National Laboratory Certification Program 2009 Manual were analyzed by GC-MS and LC-MS-MS as well as previously confirmed urine specimens of WPDT origin. Matrix effects were assessed for LC-MS-MS. Results indicated that LC-MS-MS analysis produced results at least as precise, accurate, and specific as GC-MS for the analytes investigated in this study. Matrix effects, while evident, could be controlled by the use of matrix-matched controls and calibrators with deuterated internal standards.
Simultaneous quantification of 19 drugs/metabolites in urine important for pain management by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Monitoring pain management drugs and frequently abused drugs is important for physicians to assess patient compliance. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry offers high specificity needed for this purpose. In this report, a novel liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for simultaneously monitoring 19 drugs/metabolites in urine was developed and validated.
Role of urine drug screening in the medical clearance of pediatric psychiatric patients: is there one?	Our primary objective was to investigate whether urine drug screen (UDS) results affected the medical management of pediatric psychiatric patients presenting to the pediatric emergency department (ED) for psychiatric evaluation and whether it affected the final disposition of these patients.
The estimated predictive value of screening for illicit drugs in the workplace.	This paper estimates the predictive values of screening tests for six illicit drugs of common concern in the workplace (amphetamines, barbiturates, cocaine, hallucinogens, marijuana, and opiates) using published information on test sensitivity and specificity and survey data on prevalence. Estimated predictive values (negative) were generally high, whereas the estimated predictive value of a positive test ranged from 1 per cent for amphetamines to 100 per cent for hallucinogens and was only 38 per cent for marijuana, the most prevalent drug.
A simplified thin-layer chromatography system for the detection of commonly abused basic drugs.	A simple method for the detection of drugs of abuse and their metabolites in urine is described. By extraction of urine (20 mL) with a buffered ToxElut solid phase column all the commonly abused opioid drugs can be detected on a single thin-layer chromatography plate. Location of the spots is achieved by spraying the plate with iodoplatinate following acidification with dilute sulphuric acid. Sensitivity of the order of 1 mg/L is attained for most drugs.
The validity of methadone clients' self-reported drug use.	Drug use self-reports were compared with urinalysis for 248 clients in four methadone treatment programs. The validity of self-reporting based on urinalysis as a criterion depended on the type of drug examined. Opiate reporting was least valid, while benzodiazepine and cocaine reporting were moderately and highly valid, respectively. EMIT urinalysis was far more useful as a criterion of validity than TLC urinalysis. Self-reports helped identify drug users who were missed by urinalysis because of the latter's limited detection period, but urinalysis in turn detected an equal number of drug users missed by the interviews. The age of clients and the type of interviewer directly affected the rate of underreporting. Some respondents systematically denied disvalued behaviors (i.e., drug use and criminality), leading to a spurious correlation between these behaviors. This has important implications for future research.
Encapsulated XAD-2 extraction technique for a rapid screening of drugs of abuse in urine.	This paper describes a novel technique for the rapid screening of drugs of abuse in urine involving extraction with encapsulated Amberlite XAD-2 resin followed by gas chromatographic analysis. Each capsule is fabricated as a rigid, porous, polypropylene sphere, 2 cm in diameter, and contains 300 mg of the XAD-2 resin. Two mL of urine is shaken with one capsule under slight positive pressure for eight minutes. A sequential extraction is employed to obtain separate elution of the acidic-neutral and basic drugs. Identification is by dual column gas chromatography. The results, as given for spiked urine samples containing 16 commonly encountered drugs, were found to be linear and reproducible over both the therapeutic and toxic ranges. Extraction efficiencies using the encapsulated XAD-2 technique are comparable to those reported in literature for XAD-2 column chromatography. The purity of the extracts, as seen from the gas chromatographic analysis, is demonstrably better than that seen with the conventional procedures. There was minimal interference from polymer bleed. The total volume of solvents used in the sequential scheme is 5 mL. Total extraction time to achieve dried residues is 15 minutes.
Single- and two-step extraction and thin-layer detection procedures for benzoylecgonine (cocaine metabolite) alone or in combination with a wide variety of commonly abused drugs in urine screening programs.	Three extraction procedures for the detection of benzoylecgonine (a major metabolite of cocaine) in urine are presented. Each technique has its advantages, depending on the needs of a clinical operation. Procedures I and II involve the use of ion-exchange resin-loaded paper. Procedure I has a sensitivity of 1 microng/ml and requires 20 ml of urine, and is recommended when the aim is to test for the abuse of cocaine only. Procedure II is a two-step extraction method in which a wide variety of abused drugs are extracted by the first step and the benzoylecgonine left in the aqueous buffer phase is extracted in the second step. The sensitivity for benzoylecgonine using this procedure is 2 microng/ml and it requires 20-50 ml of urine. Procedure III involves the direct extraction of benzoylecgonine using 5 ml of urine and has a sensitivity of 0.5 microng/ml.
First analytical chemistry study on drug abuse in the Buenos Aires (Argentina) University students.	One hundred samples were randomly selected from urine specimens collected from Buenos Aires University students, 50 males and 50 females, whose ages ranged from 19 to 47 years. Cocaine (COC), cannabinoids (CNNs), amphetamines (AMs), benzodiazepines (BZDs), barbiturates (BBTs), opiates (OPs) and salicylates (SAs) were searched for by ELISA, FPIA, normalized TLC, HPLC and GC/MS techniques. The presence of COC was detected in five samples, CNN in two and SA in twelve. No evidence of AMs, BZDs, BBTs or OPs was found.
Vitamin B2 interference with TDx drugs-of-abuse assays.	Migraine is a headache condition found in significant frequency in the general population. One recent study has shown that riboflavin, Vitamin B2, is an effective prophylactic treatment for this headache condition. One subject in a recent study conducted by the Division of Forensic Toxicology, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP) was taking 200 mg of riboflavin twice daily for the prevention of migraine headaches. When that subject's urine was tested using Abbott TDx drugs-of-abuse assays a number of tests resulted in a MX BKG error and all samples had BLK I values greater than those observed with normal urine specimens. The MX BKG error occurs when the BLK I value is greater than the upper limit determined by the manufacturer for a particular assay. High BLK I values may result if the specimen being analyzed contains a fluorophore that will compete with the fluorescein-labeled antibody used in the assay. This error serves as a notification that an interfering substance may be present and the assay is not performing according to manufacturer-specifications. Upon termination of riboflavin therapy the subject's BLK I values began to decrease within 60 h of the last 200 mg dose. A second subject began chronic riboflavin use to confirm this interferent effect. Elevated BLK I values resulted within 3 h of a single 200 mg dose and MX BKG errors occurred 1 h after a second 400 mg dose. No false negative results were noted with either subject (both subjects used butalbital and the first subject also used hydrocodone and diazepam during the study), suggesting that riboflavin is not an adulterant. Riboflavin use, however, does interfere with the TDx DAU assays and may result in quantitative values being determined which are of questionable validity in the face of an elevated BLK I value or may result in only an MX BKG error and no quantitative value reported. It is unclear if the interfering fluorophore is simply riboflavin itself or a combination of riboflavin and its metabolic products. Results obtained on urine samples collected from individuals using prophylactic riboflavin for migraine prevention and analyzed by TDx may be of questionable validity. Such samples may require analysis utilizing another immunoassay technique that does not employ a fluorescein-labeled antibody.
