Psychological abuse: implications for adjustment and commitment to leave violent partners.	The contribution of psychological abuse, beyond that of physical abuse, to battered women's psychological adjustment and their intentions to terminate their abusive relationships was examined. Sixty-eight battered women residing in shelters for battered women provided information on their: (1) physical and psychological abuse; (2) psychological symptomatology; (3) strategies for coping with and perceptions of control over partner violence; and (4) intentions to return to their abusive partners. Multiple regression analyses indicated that frequency and severity of physical abuse was not a significant predictor of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptomatology nor of women's intentions to terminate their abusive relationships. However, psychological abuse was a significant predictor of both PTSD symptomatology and intentions to permanently leave abusive partners even after controlling for the effects of physical abuse. PTSD symptomatology moderated the relationship between psychological abuse and intentions to terminate the abusive relationships: resolve to leave the abusive partner as a function of level of psychological abuse was significant only among women characterized by low levels of PTSD symptomatology. Greater use of emotion-focused coping strategies, absolutely and relative to problem-focused coping, had direct effects on PTSD symptomatology. However, neither coping nor perceptions of control moderated the effects of psychological abuse on psychological adjustment. The results of the investigation suggested that psychological abuse and ensuing PTSD symptomatology are important variables to assess among physically battered women.
Post-traumatic stress symptoms in patients undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation.	The aim of this explorative study was prospectively to evaluate the presence of post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) in patients with hematological malignant disorders undergoing autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). The findings were related to sense of coherence and quality of life aspects. Twenty patients were evaluated with four standardized instruments before undergoing ASCT and then at two follow-ups. The patients participating in the study reported PTSS levels high enough to merit attention. Although PTSS declined over time, the levels were still high compared with other studied populations of cancer patients. Intrusive and avoidant symptoms correlated significantly to anxiety and depression but not to sense of coherence and physical dimensions. The high levels of PTSS and their relation to emotional distress emphasize the importance of psychosocial care for this group of patients.
Substance abuse as a symptom of childhood sexual abuse.	The recovery process of a 37-year-old woman with adult onset posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is presented. The patient had suffered childhood sexual abuse and had self-medicated for many years with drugs and alcohol to maintain the dissociation of memories of abuse and to facilitate interpersonal functioning. Upon onset of PTSD, the patient's substance abuse became a full-blown addiction that was highly resistant to treatment. It became evident that her substance abuse symbolically repeated her traumatization. In reexperiencing the affects associated with her earlier trauma (despair, denial, shame, and helplessness) as part of her substance abuse and in the transference, the patient was able to gain mastery over these affects and, subsequently, was able to achieve a stable recovery from both illnesses.
Television exposure in children after a terrorist incident.	This study examined the influence of bomb-related television viewing in the context of physical and emotional exposure on posttraumatic stress symptoms--intrusion, avoidance, and arousal--in middle school students following the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. Over 2,000 middle school students in Oklahoma City were surveyed 7 weeks after the incident. The primary outcome measures were the total posttraumatic stress symptom score and symptom cluster scores at the time of assessment. Bomb-related television viewing in the aftermath of the disaster was extensive. Both emotional and television exposure were associated with posttraumatic stress at 7 weeks. Among children with no physical or emotional exposure, the degree of television exposure was directly related to posttraumatic stress symptomatology. These findings suggest that television viewing in the aftermath of a disaster may make a small contribution to subsequent posttraumatic stress symptomatology in children or that increased television viewing may be a sign of current distress and that it should be monitored. Future research should examine further whether early symptoms predict increased television viewing and/or whether television viewing predicts subsequent symptoms.
Posttraumatic stress disorder following assault: the role of cognitive processing, trauma memory, and appraisals.	Two studies of assault victims examined the roles of (a) disorganized trauma memories in the development of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), (b) peritraumatic cognitive processing in the development of problematic memories and PTSD, and (c) ongoing dissociation and negative appraisals of memories in maintaining symptomatology. In the cross-sectional study (n = 81), comparisons of current, past, and no-PTSD groups suggested that peritraumatic cognitive processing is related to the development of disorganized memories and PTSD. Ongoing dissociation and negative appraisals served to maintain PTSD symptoms. The prospective study (n = 73) replicated these findings longitudinally. Cognitive and memory assessments completed within 12-weeks postassault predicted 6-month symptoms. Assault severity measures explained 22% of symptom variance; measures of cognitive processing, memory disorganization, and appraisals increased prediction accuracy to 71%.
Healing broken hearts.	1. Posttraumatic stress disorder, anxiety, and depression have a significant negative effect on the physical functioning of individuals with coronary artery disease. 2. A diagnosis of major depression is recognized to be an independent risk factor for cardiac events. 3. Preoperative and postoperative interventions can increase individuals' compliance with cardiac and psychiatric self-care after discharge.
Predictors of acute distress among young adults injured by community violence.	Acute reactions to trauma are examined in 267 individuals severely injured via community violence. Respondents were interviewed about pretrauma, peritraumatic, and acute posttraumatic factors. A series of bivariate and multivariate analyses were conducted. We found few factors related to peritraumatic dissociation (PD): only injury severity and neuroticism emerged as multivariate predictors and the effects were small. PD was strongly related to acute PTSD symptoms, and partially mediated the relationship between other factors and acute PTSD and general distress symptoms. Different patterns of predictors emerged for acute PTSD symptoms vis-à-vis general distress symptoms. Future research on predictors of PD is indicated to develop prevention and early intervention programs.
Time does not heal all wounds: quality of life and psychological distress of people who survived the holocaust as children 55 years later.	The present study assessed posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, psychological distress, and subjective quality of life (QoL) in a group of 43 child Holocaust survivors and a community sample of 44 persons who had not personally experienced the Holocaust. The participants were administered the PTSD-Scale, the SCL-90, and the WHOQOL-Bref. Results showed that the child survivors had higher PTSD symptom scores, higher depression, anxiety, somatization, and anger-hostility scores; and lower physical, psychological, and social QoL than did the comparison group. The findings suggest that the psychological consequences of being a child during the Holocaust can be long lasting.
Individual differences in post-traumatic stress following post-intimate stalking: stalking severity and psychosocial variables.	Stalking can have a major psychosocial impact on its victims. Accumulating evidence suggests frequent post-traumatic stress (PTS) reactions. The present study aimed to detail the affective and cognitive responses following post-intimate stalking, and to assess the associations between stalking severity, person-related psychosocial variables and symptoms of PTS.
Media exposure in children one hundred miles from a terrorist bombing.	This study assessed indirect interpersonal exposure to the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, broadcast and print media exposure in the aftermath of the explosion, emotional reactions to media coverage, and posttraumatic stress reactions in children distant from the explosion. A survey was administered to 88 sixth-grade students in the public middle school in a community 100 miles from Oklahoma City 2 years after the bombing. Many children reported indirect interpersonal exposure and most reported bomb-related media exposure. Print media exposure was more strongly associated with enduring posttraumatic stress than broadcast exposure. Indirect interpersonal exposure and the interaction of media exposure with emotional reaction to media coverage in the aftermath of the explosion each predicted ongoing posttraumatic stress. The results suggest that children may have lingering reactions to highly publicized terrorist incidents. Concern about the influence of television viewing has long been proclaimed. This study implicates print media exposure as well. Media exposure to terrorist incidents, therefore, should be monitored and those working with children should assess exposure and stress even in children not directly impacted.
The development of acute post-traumatic stress disorder after orofacial injury: a prospective study in a large urban hospital.	Psychologic distress is a common outcome among trauma survivors. This report examines both the development and predictors of acute post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms in a sample of US inner-city orofacial trauma survivors seeking treatment in a publicly funded hospital.
Posttraumatic stress disorder in children after cardiac surgery.	Children undergoing cardiac surgery often experience traumatic situations related to their care and may be at risk for developing posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The purpose of this study was to examine children's responses to cardiac surgery and the factors that mediate responses.
Physiological responsiveness of motor vehicle accident survivors with chronic posttraumatic stress disorder.	This study sought to replicate past research that has shown differences in physiological responsiveness among survivors of motor vehicle accidents (MVAs) with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and those survivors who do not develop this disorder. Such physiological differences have been found specifically with heart rate (HR) reactivity. This study also attempts to account for differences among those survivors with PTSD who do respond physiologically in laboratory situations and those who do not show a physiological response when presented with audiotaped descriptions of their accidents. Results replicated the significant differences in HR reactivity between diagnostic groups with chronic PTSD versus those with subsyndromal PTSD and non-PTSD. Variables related to the severity of the diagnosis and trauma were found to discriminate between physiological responders and nonresponders with chronic PTSD.
How does trauma beget trauma? Cognitions about risk in women with abuse histories.	This study examined the associations between perceived risks and benefits of drug use, unsafe sexual behavior, alcohol consumption, and aggressive/illegal behavior and reports of expected involvement in those behaviors in a sample of 340 college women with and without histories of interpersonal victimization (i.e., child sexual abuse, child physical abuse, adult sexual assault, and aggravated assault). Trauma victims reported greater perceived benefits and lower perceived risks associated with risky sexual behavior, illicit drug use, and heavy drinking, but not aggressive/illegal behavior than nonvictims. Victims also reported greater expected involvement in risky sex behavior, drug use, and heavy drinking. Regression analyses revealed that the relationship between victim status and expected involvement in risky behaviors was mediated by cognitions about risks and benefits of risky behavior, controlling for trauma-related symptoms. Implications of the findings for the understanding of repeat victimization are discussed.
Posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms, physical health, and health care utilization 50 years after repeated exposure to a toxic gas.	The posttraumatic sequelae of contaminant exposure are a contemporary international concern due to the threats posed to military personnel and civilians by war and bioterrorism. The role of PTSD symptoms as a mediator between potentially traumatic toxin exposure and physical health outcomes was examined with structural equation modeling in a probability sample of 302 male World War II-era U.S. military veterans 50 years after exposure to mustard gas tests. Controlling for age and psychological distress, the most parsimonious structural model involved PTSD symptoms mediating the relationship between toxin exposure and physical health problems, and physical health problems mediating the relationship between PTSD symptoms and outpatient health care utilization. Implications for researchers, mental health clinicians, and health care providers are discussed.
Nightmares, insomnia, and sleep-disordered breathing in fire evacuees seeking treatment for posttraumatic sleep disturbance.	Eight months after the Cerro Grande Fire, 78 evacuees seeking treatment for posttraumatic sleep disturbances were assessed for chronic nightmares, psychophysiological insomnia, and sleep-disordered breathing symptoms. Within this sample, 50% of participants were tested objectively for sleep-disordered breathing; 95% of those tested screened positive for sleep-disordered breathing. Multiple regression analyses demonstrated that these three sleep disorders accounted for 37% of the variance in posttraumatic stress symptoms, and each sleep disorder was significantly and independently associated with posttraumatic stress symptoms severity. The only systematic variable associated with posttraumatic stress symptoms of avoidance was sleep-disordered breathing. The findings suggest that three common sleep disorders relate to posttraumatic stress symptoms in a more complex manner than explained by the prevailing psychiatric paradigm, which conceptualizes sleep disturbances in PTSD merely as secondary symptoms of psychiatric distress.
Anticipating loss and other temporal stressors predict traumatic stress symptoms among partners of metastatic/recurrent breast cancer patients.	This study examined pre- and post-loss levels of posttraumatic stress symptoms (intrusion and avoidance) in partners of metastatic/recurrent breast cancer patients, and the relationship of these symptoms to past, current, and anticipatory stressors. The results indicate that 34% (17/50) of the partners experienced clinically significant symptom levels prior to the patients' deaths. Prior to loss, partners' symptoms were positively associated with their current level of perceived stress and anticipated impact of the loss; whereas following loss, partners' symptoms were predicted by higher pre-loss levels of symptoms, past family deaths, and anticipated impact of the loss. Limitations and treatment implications of the present research and directions for future research are discussed.
Maternal posttraumatic stress response after the birth of a very low-birth-weight infant.	For parents, the premature birth of a child represents a traumatic event for which they are poorly prepared. To date, the focus of scientific interest has been on maternal psychological stress responses, such as anxiety and depression, or on appropriate coping mechanisms, whereas only scant attention has been paid to the traumatic aspect of the maternal experience after very low-birth-weight (VLBW) birth. The present study is the first to investigate the posttraumatic stress response of mothers after the birth of a VLBW infant in a prospective longitudinal study.
Mental health in complex emergencies.	Mental health is becoming a central issue for public health complex emergencies. In this review we present a culturally valid mental health action plan based on scientific evidence that is capable of addressing the mental health effects of complex emergencies. A mental health system of primary care providers, traditional healers, and relief workers, if properly trained and supported, can provide cost-effective, good mental health care. This plan emphasises the need for standardised approaches to the assessment, monitoring, and outcome of all related activities. Crucial to the improvement of outcomes during crises and the availability to future emergencies of lessons learned from earlier crises is the regular dissemination of the results achieved with the action plan. A research agenda is included that should, in time, fill knowledge gaps and reduce the negative mental health effects of complex emergencies.
Advances in violence and trauma: toward comprehensive ecological models.	The most important things learned about violence and trauma in the past 20 years are that interpersonal violence is prevalent, with different forms co-occurring, and that victims' reactions are complex. Researchers are called to consider models that include the ecological context within which victims experience violence and trauma to gain a better understanding of the variation seen in psychological outcomes. Multivariate data-analytic techniques such as structural equation modeling and cluster analysis are suggested as promising ways to explore questions framed by comprehensive models. These recommendations are predicted to provide comprehensive and individualized ways to intervene and prevent interpersonal violence.
The biology of trauma: implications for treatment.	During the past 20 years, the development of brain imaging techniques and new biochemical approaches has led to increased understanding of the biological effects of psychological trauma. New hypotheses have been generated about brain development and the roots of antisocial behavior. We now understand that psychological trauma disrupts homeostasis and can cause both short and long-term effects on many organs and systems of the body. Our expanding knowledge of the effects of trauma on the body has inspired new approaches to treating trauma survivors. Biologically informed therapy addresses the physiological effects of trauma, as well as cognitive distortions and maladaptive behaviors. The authors suggest that the most effective therapeutic innovation during the past 20 years for treating trauma survivors has been Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR), a therapeutic approach that focuses on resolving trauma using a combination of top-down (cognitive) and bottom-up (affect/body) processing.
Children's exposure to violence: exploring developmental pathways to diverse outcomes.	Identifying mechanisms that explain the children's differential vulnerability to violence exposure is an important research focus. Developmentally sensitive theories and methods are recommended to better understand children's risk and resilience to violence exposure. Examples are provided of promising research that links violence exposure to subtle deviations in children's emotional, cognitive, and physiological functioning, and to disruptions in the family environment.
Reflections on partner violence: 20 years of research and beyond.	The authors reflect on past research and technology as well as their hopes for future innovations within the field of intimate partner violence. They review work that has contributed to current conceptual definitions of partner violence, particularly those that have shaped the field's broadened perspective. They discuss technological and measurement innovations that have contributed to more accurate assessments of violence prevalence. The authors believe that via these technologies, the true extent of violence within the home has been made known. In conclusion, the authors argue that to reduce violence between partners, there is an overwhelming need for future researchers to build on past data, develop improved theories, and apply those ideas to prevention and intervention techniques and programs. Furthermore, they believe that it is imperative for current and future programs to be extensively evaluated and tested for their effectiveness.
Targets of partner violence: the importance of understanding coping trajectories.	Partner violence causes many negative outcomes for the target of the violence. Preventing negative outcomes in part hinges on altogether preventing the violence from occurring. There have been advances in violence prevention that the authors briefly review. However, some of the most notable advances focus on dealing with partner violence once it occurs. We now have a better understanding of different types of violence, and this has led to better interventions for perpetrators. But preventing the negative consequences of partner violence involves more than ending the violence itself; it also involves helping the targets of violence heal. The authors propose that the next decade of research on partner violence should focus on developing precise models of target coping and appropriate interventions for targets. The authors describe key variables that characterize the coping process but highlight limitations in knowledge of how these variables are related. The authors also outline several benefits of focusing on helping targets.
The most important things learned about violence and trauma in the past 20 years.	In the past 2 decades, important insights have been gained regarding violence and trauma. Complications occur in how violence and trauma, their causes, and their effects on victims should be defined. Violence and abuse to women--physical, sexual, and emotional--are not rare events and are most often perpetrated by partners or acquaintances rather than strangers and occur in nonmarital as well as marital relationships, including same-sex relationships. A promising methodological innovation in the study of violence and trauma is the use of longitudinal designs. Innovations in treatments for victims such as evidence-based interventions have been slow to emerge; they include eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) and the Seeking Safety group intervention for drug-abusing women with trauma histories. Future research should address increased understanding of variation in individual responses to violence and trauma, matching of treatment to different types of male offenders, better understanding of how culture affects violence perpetration and victimization, and evaluation of domestic violence interventions.
Understanding rape and sexual assault: 20 years of progress and future directions.	During the past 20 years, researchers have documented the widespread problem of rape in American society. Approximately one in four women are raped in their adult lifetime, which causes severe psychological distress and long-term physical health problems. The impact of sexual assault extends far beyond rape survivors as their family, friends, and significant others are also negatively affected. Moreover, those who help rape victims, such as rape victim advocates, therapists, as well as sexual assault researchers, can experience vicarious trauma. Future research and advocacy should focus on improving the community response to rape and the prevention of sexual assault.
Preventing violence and trauma in the next generation.	Research in recent times has clearly demonstrated that violence is predictable and preventable; however, the primary prevention of abusive and violent behavior will not occur without personal, interpersonal, and social change. This article reviews the empirical research supporting hypotheses for primary prevention of many risks associated with children becoming abusive.
Intimate partner sexual assault against women: frequency, health consequences, and treatment outcomes.	To describe the characteristics and consequences of sexual assault within intimate relationships specific to racial or ethnic group, compare the findings to a similar group of physically assaulted-only women, and measure the risk of reassault after victim contact with justice and health services.
Stress response symptoms in adolescent and young adult children of parents diagnosed with cancer.	The aim of this study was to assess stress response symptoms in children of parents diagnosed with cancer 1-5 year prior to study entry. The impact of event scale was used to measure stress response symptoms in terms of intrusion and avoidance; the youth self-report assessed emotional and behavioural functioning; the state-trait anxiety inventory for children measured trait-anxiety. Participants included 220 adolescents (aged 11-18 years) and 64 young adults (aged 19-23 years) from 169 families. Twenty-one percent of the sons and 35% of the daughters reported clinically elevated stress response symptoms. Daughters, particularly those whose mothers were ill, reported significantly more intrusion and avoidance than did sons. Intrusion among daughters was positively related to age. Stress response symptoms in both sons and daughters were significantly associated with trait anxiety, but not with intensity of treatment or time since diagnosis. Daughters whose parents suffered from recurrent illness reported more symptoms than did daughters whose parents had a primary disease. Children (daughters in particular) with clinically elevated stress response symptoms reported significantly more problems of internalising and cognition than did their norm group peers. One-fifth of the sons and more than one-third of the daughters expressed clinically elevated stress response symptoms. These children also reported internalising and cognitive problems. Daughters appeared to be more at risk than sons.
Primary care provider interventions for the delayed disclosure of adolescent sexual assault.	Acute sexual assault is a serious and underreported crime with the potential for causing grave physical and emotional harm to its victim. As a result of developmental and psychological factors, the adolescent victim may delay the disclosure of such an assault and therefore experience detrimental, acute, and long-term effects. By understanding the reasons for delayed disclosure and integrating this with currently established guidelines for acutely assaulted patients, primary care providers can better tailor the care they provide when faced with the delayed disclosure of adolescent sexual assault. Furthermore, based on this review, it becomes clear that standardized protocols are necessary to more efficiently care for these patients. Recommendations are provided to allow tailoring of primary care provider's interventions based on established protocols and new understandings when caring for adolescents who delay the disclosure of their sexual assault.
Evaluating peer support for prostate cancer: the Prostate Cancer Peer Support Inventory.	To develop and test a measure for assessing peer support for men attending prostate cancer support groups, and to describe socio-demographic, medical and adjustment characteristics of Australian men who attend these support groups.
Domestic violence, lifetime trauma and psychological health of childbearing women.	Although histories of abuse are associated with psychiatric illness in women, health professionals rarely enquire directly about such experiences. This study examined the association between physical and sexual violence and lifetime trauma and depressive and posttraumatic stress symptoms in women receiving maternity care.
Fear of recurrence, sense of coherence and posttraumatic stress disorder in haematological cancer survivors.	The diagnosis and treatment of cancer has been shown to precipitate posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in some cancer survivors. However few studies have considered the links between cancer-related PTSD and theoretical models of PTSD. This study considers a cognitive model of PTSD by examining the relationship between sense of coherence, and fear of recurrence to posttraumatic stress symptomatology (PTSS) in haematological cancer survivors. Thirty-six participants completed the PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version (PCL-C), the Impact of Events Scale-Revised (IES-R), the sense of coherence scale and two measures of fear of recurrence. Two measures of fear of recurrence were included as no fear of recurrence measures had previously been assessed for reliability and validity on British populations. Seventeen percent of the sample met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for PTSD. Statistically significant relationships were found between sense of coherence and fear of recurrence and PTSS, raising questions about the possibility of using this construct as a screening measure for vulnerability to PTSD. A relationship was also found between fear of recurrence and PTSS suggesting that cancer-related PTSS may fit within the theoretical model of PTSD considered. Further examination of factors affecting the onset, maintenance and treatment of PTSD in this population is required.
The unfinished story of trauma as a paradigm for psychotherapists (a review and some empirical findings on paradigms and prejudices).	Notwithstanding the medical connotation of the term "trauma," (defined as wound, injury), when trauma comes in the wake of organized violence, it is thus a part of complicated inter-actional, cultural and historical phenomena. Two of the currently valid diagnostic and therapeutic paradigms are spelled out in this article, i.e. The first presented is the one of the "unfinished story," of the impact of the primary trauma then and there, and the second presented is one of the post-re-entry "alienation" of the secondary trauma here and now. Shifting the latter to the foreground focuses attention upon the functioning of the therapist rather than on that of the victim. A review of the literature on the behavior of the post-violent society towards its post-traumatic subjects in general, will also be presented. Furthermore, clinicians' attitudes, in particular, suggestive of 5 levels of therapist functioning that could then be discerned in empirical subpopulations of Israeli psychotherapists (N = 34), in relation to the Holocaust trauma, was also examined. We found that their attitudes and reactions were influenced by their own and their parents' past roles in history, their cultural backgrounds, and clinical subculture or setting that they belonged to. The implications of these findings for post-trauma therapy are briefly discussed in this essay.
Risk factors associated with posttraumatic stress disorder symptomatology in HIV-infected women.	This study examined risk factors for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptomatology in a sample of 102 HIV-positive women. The magnitude of HIV-related PTSD symptoms was associated with a greater number of HIV-related physical symptoms, more extensive history of pre-HIV trauma, less perceived availability of social support, greater degree of perceived stigma, and greater degree of negative life events. Hierarchical multiple regression analysis revealed three individual predictors of PTSD symptomatology: total impact of negative life events, total stigma score, and total number of present symptoms. Stigma emerged as the strongest individual predictor. Social support failed to moderate relationships between PTSD symptomatology and HIV-related physical symptoms and negative life events. These findings may inform helping professionals about risk factors associated with PTSD symptomatology in HIV-positive women.
Intimate partner violence and post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms in women: what we know and need to know.	This article presents a review of knowledge regarding post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in women experiencing intimate partner violence. Knowledge related to the prevalence and predictors of PTSD in battered women, the association between PTSD and physical health, and the emerging science regarding PTSD and physiological and immune parameters is addressed. Primary recommendations for future research includes the need for longitudinal and intervention research that incorporates a range of psychosocial and physiologic health outcomes.
Beyond PTSD: an evolving relationship between trauma theory and family violence research.	During the past 20 years, we have learned how similarly harmful are experiences of terror, violence, and abuse, whether they occur on the combat field or at home. The field of family violence has gained much from the field of traumatic stress, and collaborations between these two previously separate fields have yielded important new answers, as well as new research questions. The field of traumatic stress is poised to integrate, more fully than in the past, a variety of aspects of trauma such as social betrayal, as well as outcomes of trauma such as depression, criminality, and physiological harm that go beyond posttraumatic stress. The field of family violence has much to offer in this process. We look forward to improved research designs that will further our knowledge of how trauma affects aspects of people's lives, including productivity, relationships, cognition, and emotions, in negative and positive ways.
Trauma and violence research: taking stock in the 21st century.	Thirty years after the first national estimates of intimate partner violence were published, the field has reached such a level of maturity that complex questions can be posed and sophisticated research studies can be designed to answer them. Out of this body of research, one of the most important things that researchers have learned is that violence and trauma are experienced in different ways by different individuals and as a result, require different types of prevention and intervention approaches. With this greater understanding of the problems of violence and trauma, together with a commitment to inclusive and practical research, the field is poised to move forward toward the ultimate goal of violence prevention.
Advances and future directions in the study of children's neurobiological responses to trauma and violence exposure.	One of the most exciting developments to emerge from the field in the past 20 years is the increasing attention to neurobiological responses to violence and trauma exposure. Although researchers have yet to identify a consensual pattern of neurobiological response to violence and trauma exposure, it does appear that some type of alteration in the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis is likely. This article briefly reviews the multiple moderating factors that help account for the divergent patterns in HPA function as well as methodological advances that will continue to improve the assessment of HPA function in youth exposed to violence and trauma.
Contributions to the study of violence and trauma: multisystemic therapy, exposure therapy, attachment styles, and therapy process research.	The prevention of future violence through engaging violent adolescents in multisystemic therapy and the treatment of trauma with exposure therapy are two of the most important scientific advances in the field of interpersonal violence in the past 20 years. A particularly significant methodological innovation is the development of reliable and valid measures of childhood and adult attachment because attachment deficits and their remediation are central to understanding and treating perpetrators of violence. In the coming decades, we need to refine existing treatment programs to make them effective for cases currently classified as treatment resistant. This will involve psychotherapy process research on the interaction between therapeutic mechanisms of change and unique personal vulnerabilities of treatment-resistant cases.
Twenty years of progress in addressing domestic violence: an agenda for the next 10.	The past 20 years have seen great strides in addressing violence against women by their male partners. Although the author cannot point to one single intervention or set of interventions as being the most effective, institutional reforms that have included coordinated community responses have had a positive impact. During the next 10 years, researchers must learn how to address the obstacles that prevent institutional responses from being more effective in addressing the needs of victims.
Domestic violence research: what have we learned and where do we go from here?	Domestic violence has been an intense area of study in recent decades. Early studies helped with the understanding of the nature of perpetration, the cycle of violence, and the effect of family violence on children. More recently, studies have focused on beginning to evaluate domestic violence interventions and their effects on recidivism. This article acknowledges the importance of what we have learned about the prevalence and impact of domestic violence and explores the need for more focused effort to pinpoint interventions that are effective with perpetrators and victims. Methodological issues relevant to past intervention studies are also discussed and future research directions are outlined.
Does childhood sexual abuse set in motion a cycle of violence against women?: what we know and what we need to learn.	This article reviews evidence for the deleterious effects of childhood sexual abuse on female development in both the acute and long-term phases. Taken in aggregate, there is evidence to suggest a persistent cycle of violence perpetrated against women that begins in childhood in the form of sexual abuse, reemerges later in adolescence and early adulthood in the form of physical assault or sexual revictimization, and ultimately places the next generation at considerable risk for victimization. The differential effect of the characteristics of sexual abuse and the wide variation in the onset and developmental course of symptoms are underscored. The need for adequate models elucidating mechanisms behind this continued cycle of violence is discussed.
Violence and trauma: the past 20 and next 10 years.	The issues of violence and trauma over the past 20 years have generated a significant amount of research. However, the development of each field has remained, for the most part, exclusive from the other. Therefore, the goal of this article is to address this shortcoming within the literature by responding to three important questions: (a) What is the most important thing we have learned about violence and trauma in the past 20 years? (b) What is the most important thing we need to learn in the next 10 years? and (c) What is the most promising methodological innovation in the past 20 years for the study or treatment of trauma or interpersonal violence? This article concludes that by increasing the discourse between the two fields, both research fields may be better able to develop conceptually, methodologically, and empirically.
Nature-nurture interplay: genetically informative designs contribute to understanding the effects of trauma and interpersonal violence.	The past two decades have seen an explosion in research in the fields of violence and trauma and behavior genetics. These two fields came into direct conflict when Lisabeth Fisher DiLalla and Irving I. Gottesman outlined a fundamental conceptual limitation of trauma and violence research: that rather than being causal, the well-documented relationship between exposure to trauma or violence and later negative outcomes could be explained by gene-environment correlation. In the past decade, researchers have addressed this limitation by studying the effects of trauma and violence using genetically informative designs. This report briefly discusses the gains made from this research approach and the promising future for genetically informative trauma and violence research.
Preschool child sex abuse: the aftermath of the Presidio case.	A case study is presented of girls who were among the preschool victims of sexual abuse linked to occult rituals that occurred at the Presidio Army Base Child Development Center. Components of the trauma, together with its effects on the victims and their families, are investigated, and implications for the mental health profession are discussed.
The aftereffects of a hostage situation on children's behavior.	The effects of the trauma on the behavior of elementary-school children who had been held hostage or been closely involved with the hostage situation were investigated, as also were the effects on the lives of their families. Specific types of negative behavior exhibited by the children were identified by teachers and parents, and were found to be linked to the length of time for which the children had been held hostage.
Childhood sexual abuse and psychosomatic symptoms in irritable bowel syndrome.	Irritable bowel syndrome is characterized by chronic gastrointestinal symptoms without a demonstrable physical cause. In a subgroup of patients, irritable bowel syndrome may be part of a cluster of psychosomatic symptoms related to childhood sexual abuse. To investigate this possibility, the Dissociative Disorders Interview Schedule (DDIS), the Dissociative Experiences Scale (DES) and the Symptom Checklist-90 (SCL-90) were administered to 105 subjects with either irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis), or other gastrointestinal disorders. The subjects in the three groups did not differ on the DES, the SCL-90 or most sections of the DDIS. However, subjects with irritable bowel syndrome reported much higher rates of childhood sexual abuse and psychosomatic symptoms.
Childhood sexual abuse patterns, psychosocial correlates, and treatment outcomes among adults in drug abuse treatment.	This study reports on the effects of having a history of childhood sexual abuse (CSA) on treatment outcomes among substance abusing men and women (N = 2,434) in a national, multisite study of drug treatment outcomes. A history of CSA was reported by 27.2% of the women and 9.2% of the men. Controlling for gender, compared to patients without CSA, patients reporting CSA were younger at entry into the current drug treatment, were more likely to be White, were more likely to have a comorbid mental disorder, be alcohol or cocaine dependent, had higher levels of criminal activities, had a higher level of problem recognition, and had a more negative peer influence. Controlling for these correlates, a history of abuse was related to a lower likelihood of posttreatment abstinence.
Clinical correlates and repetition of self-harming behaviors among female adolescent victims of sexual abuse.	This study investigated self-harming behaviors in 149 female adolescent victims of sexual abuse, first, by determining the rates of nine types of self-mutilating behavior at intake and nine months later and, second, by investigating comorbidity of clinical correlates associated with these behaviors. The adolescents were divided into three groups according to level of self-mutilating behavior and then compared on symptom self-reports; 62.1% of the adolescents engaged in at least one self-mutilating behavior. A graded relation was observed between level of self-mutilating behavior and rate, and total number of clinical disorders. At nine month follow-up, one in four teenagers still reported a moderate or high level of self-harm. The need for systematic assessment and intervention of self-mutilating behaviors is discussed.
Holocaust child survivors and child sexual abuse.	This study utilized a qualitative analysis of child survivors of the Holocaust who were sexually abused during World War II. The research study aimed to give this specific group of survivors a voice and to explore the impact of multiple extreme traumas, the Holocaust and childhood sexual abuse, on the survivors. Twenty-two child survivors of the Holocaust who were sexually abused during the war completed open-ended interviews. The data was qualitatively analyzed according to Tutty, Rothery, and Grinnell's (1996) guidelines. Three major themes were found: issues relating to the sexual abuse trauma, survivors' perceptions of the abuse, and survivors' general perspectives towards life. The identity of the offenders, Jewish or non-Jewish, determined the survivors' feelings towards themselves, the perpetrators, and about the worth of life.
Contextualizing community violence and its effects: an ecological model of parent-child interdependent coping.	This article presents an integrated conceptual framework that contextualizes exposure to community violence and the interpersonal and interdependent processes of parent and child response to community violence. This model posits that parental distress, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression, is a significant mediator of child distress symptomatology and behavior problems. The model advances understanding of the impact of community violence in the lives of parents and children through various mechanisms, including social capital. This article underscores the need for a fundamental shift in the study of community violence, in the delivery of mental health services, and in prevention efforts from focusing on the individual child to concentrating on the parent, family, and community-level factors and processes. This article highlights important areas to address in future research, including investigation and specification of the mechanisms and processes by which neighborhoods affect and influence human development outcomes.
Maxillofacial trauma and psychiatric sequelae: post-traumatic stress disorder.	Interest in the psychiatric consequences of trauma and the subsequent surgical intervention has been increasing steadily; therefore, the authors assessed the prevalence of acute symptoms of stress in patients who experienced a craniomaxillofacial injury. Fifty patients between the ages of 18 and 65 years were evaluated and assigned a score using the Injury Severity Scale (ISS). Within 48 hours of surgery (T0) and at 3 months after surgery (T1), the authors administered the Davidson Trauma Scale (DTS) to assess post-traumatic symptoms, Spielberger's State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) to assess symptoms of anxiety, and Zung's Self-rating Depression Scale (SDS) to assess depressive symptoms. Of the subjects, 44% (22 patients at T0) had acute symptoms of stress, and 26% (13 patients at T1) had post-traumatic stress symptoms. The statistical association between demographic variables was significant only for gender, especially for women. There was a significant correlation between the psychopathologic variables and trauma-specific symptoms at both T0 and T1; the same was true for the ISS at T0. Eight of the 13 patients with positive DTS results at 3 months had aesthetic and functional sequelae that might have served as reminders of the traumatic event. It is not only necessary to restitutio ad integrum the anatomy and function, but also to provide psychiatric support for patients experiencing psychiatric symptoms caused by traumatic events.
Treatment of complicated grief: a randomized controlled trial.	Complicated grief is a debilitating disorder associated with important negative health consequences, but the results of existing treatments for it have been disappointing.
Erikson's "components of a healthy personality" among Holocaust survivors immediately and 40 years after the war.	This study assessed the degree to which Holocaust survivors have dealt successfully with the eight psychosocial crises thought by Erikson (1959) to mark important stages in life-span development. In Study 1, 50 autobiographical interviews of survivors videotaped 30-50 years after the war were subjected to thematic content analysis. Relevant passages were coded as representing either a favorable or an unfavorable outcome as defined by Erikson. Survivors described significantly more favorable than unfavorable outcomes for seven of the crises; the exception was Trust vs. Mistrust. In Study 2, audiotaped Holocaust survivor interviews conducted in 1946 were scored in the same way and compared with the results of Study 1. There were several significant differences as well as similarities between the two data sets, the later interviews mostly showing changes in the positive direction.
The impact of terrorism on children and adolescents: terror in the skies, terror on television.	Terrorist attacks and their aftermath have had a powerful impact on children and their families. Media and television exposure of terrorist events throughout the world has increased during the past few years. There is increasing concern about the effects of this exposure on children who witness these violent images. To develop a proactive and strategic response to reactions of fear, clinicians, educators, and policy makers must understand the psychologic effects of media coverage of terrorism on children. Previous research has focused on media coverage of criminal violence and war. Recent studies have examined the effect of remote exposure of terrorist attacks and have shown a significant clinical impact on children and families.
Maintaining routine despite ongoing exposure to terrorism: a healthy strategy for adolescents?	To examine the association between ongoing terrorism and Israeli adolescents' routine activities.
Child-parent psychotherapy: 6-month follow-up of a randomized controlled trial.	To examine the durability of improvement in child and maternal symptoms 6 months after termination of child-parent psychotherapy (CPP).
Injury increases the risk for PTSD: an examination of potential neurobiological and psychological mediators.	A growing number of common traumatic events involve both physical and emotional injuries. In contrast to previously held beliefs, the rapidly growing body of literature shows quite convincingly that physical injury, over and above exposure to the traumatic event itself, increases rather than decreases the risk for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). A pertinent question becomes how bodily injury contributes to the risk of developing PTSD. In this article, we review contemporary findings regarding the neurobiological and psychological mechanisms by which bodily injury may augment or independently contribute to chronic posttraumatic stress. In addition, we propose three theoretical pathways through which physical injury can increase the risk for PTSD. These pathways are: additive, unique, and recovery impeding. Finally, we highlight unresolved issues pertaining to each one of these pathways and propose directions for future research to address them.
Posttraumatic stress disorder with amnesia following asphyxiation.	We describe five cases of traumatic asphyxiation injury, each meeting diagnostic criteria for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and characterized by a range of postinjury cognitive impairment. Four patients exhibited dense retrograde amnesia, including absence of conscious memory for the traumatic event. Appreciation of these asphyxiation cases, which involve temporally extended trauma exposure, may help resolve arguments regarding the possibility of co-occurrence of PTSD and neurological amnesia based exclusively on observations of much briefer duration events (specifically, motor vehicle crashes). These five cases also provide evidence that cognitive symptoms of PTSD can develop in the absence of conscious memory for the event.
Effects of a community toxic release on the psychological status of children.	This study sought to determine the emotional effects of a major community toxic release on children in the exposed community while controlling for the potential effects of response bias. Controlling for the response bias inherent in litigated contexts is an advance over previous studies of toxic exposure in children. A randomly selected representative sample of Exposed children (n = 31) was compared to a matched Control group (n = 28) from a nearby, unexposed community. Symptoms and complaints were assessed via interview with the children and their guardians, surveys and checklists, and well-established psychological instruments. Even when biased responding was controlled the Exposed children experienced more psychological distress, more physical symptoms, and greater general concern over their physical functioning than the Controls. The Exposed children also reported some concern about their future health and cancer risk but usually only if asked. Limitations and future research directions are discussed.
The psychological effect of severe acute respiratory syndrome on emergency department staff.	The severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2003 affected 29 countries. The SARS outbreak was unique in its rapid transmission and it resulted in heavy stress in first-line healthcare workers, particularly in the emergency department.
Vicarious traumatization: the impact on therapists who work with sexual offenders.	This article reviews the descriptive and empirical literature examining vicarious traumatization in therapists treating sexual offenders. Vicarious traumatization in sexual offender therapists is described, including an examination of the relationships between vicarious traumatization and client, therapist, and setting and therapy characteristics. Special attention is given to those unique factors that contribute to the development of vicarious traumatization in this group, as well as consideration of why therapists treating offenders or victims may differ in their experience and development of vicarious traumatization. Evidence from the research reviewed suggests that sexual offender therapists do experience symptoms of vicarious traumatization. Factors most strongly associated with the development of vicarious traumatization in sexual offender therapists include professional experience, treatment setting, and coping strategies employed by the therapists. Implications and recommendations for professionals and policymakers are discussed.
Posttraumatic appraisals in the development and persistence of posttraumatic stress symptoms.	Cognitive models of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) posit that appraisal plays an important role in the development and persistence of PTSD. This study examined posttraumatic appraisals and their relationship to the development and course of PTSD symptoms. Two hundred fifty-three injury survivors were assessed for PTSD symptoms and posttraumatic cognitions across a 12-month period. A path analytic modeling approach showed that posttraumatic appraisals were important direct and indirect predictors of later PTSD severity. The findings suggest that appraisals made in the aftermath of trauma have a significant influence on subsequent psychological adjustment.
Cohesion, burnout, and past trauma in tri-service medical and support personnel.	Past research suggests that the negative consequences related to exposure to traumatic events and injury may impact cohesive work relationships. Additionally, trauma and low cohesive relationships independently predict poorer psychological and physical health in service members. The objective of the present study was to examine the interrelationships between exposure to traumatic events, burnout, and cohesion among tri-service medical and support staff. Surveys were administered to 253 U.S. Army, Army Reserve Units, U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Navy personnel upon arrival in Hawaii for participation in a stressful, 2-week training exercise. Results showed that history of trauma was correlated with poorer view of officers and higher levels on two components of burnout. We discuss how findings can apply to prevention and early intervention efforts.
Suicide rate among former Swedish peacekeeping personnel.	Increased suicide rates for military personnel suffering from post-traumatic stress disorders have been reported in various countries. Although it is known that some peacekeepers are exposed to potentially traumatic events and are thus at risk of suffering from post-traumatic stress reactions, only a few studies have examined suicide rates in this group. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the suicide rate among former Swedish peacekeeping personnel. We compared 39,768 former Swedish peacekeepers to the general population in the National General Population Registry and the Cause-of-Death Registry. A lower number of suicides was found among former Swedish peacekeepers than in the general population. In conclusion, Swedish personnel serving in international peace-keeping operations do not show a higher suicide rate than the general population. Unique problems associated with this research area are discussed.
The virtual network supporting the front lines: addressing emerging behavioral health problems following the tsunami of 2004.	The devastation wreaked by the 2004 tsunami in the Indian Ocean required extensive multinational and nongovernmental relief efforts to address the massive loss of infrastructure, people, and society. This article addresses approaches to behavioral incident management from a process perspective, through the lens of one official stateside channel of emergency operations. The process highlights the formation and connectivity of multidisciplinary teams that virtually supported the efforts of a seven-person, on-scene, behavioral health team aboard the USNS Mercy as part of Operation Unified Assistance in the Indian Ocean. Frontline health diplomacy and behavioral health relief efforts were greatly augmented by the virtual network of support from leading experts around the globe. Future disaster response and recovery efforts ought to build on the success of such virtual support networks, by planning for appropriate technology, expertise, and mutual aid partnerships.
Neurobiological effects of childhood abuse.	Child abuse and violence are significant public health problems. Research indicates a strong correlation between early childhood abuse and enduring neurobiological changes in specific regions of the brain. These neurobiological changes are often reflected in psychopathology and lifelong maladaptive behaviors. However, emerging research suggests that these neurobiological changes may be modified through specific evidence-based interventions. Nurses must be able to evaluate the current research and translate the findings into their practice, remembering that prevention is the most effective remedy for abuse and violence.
Violence against Native women in substance abuse treatment.	Many mental health problems among substance abusing populations are directly linked to high rates of abuse and trauma. There is increasing evidence of associations between childhood physical and sexual abuse to adult substance use and HIV-risk behavior. The relationship of abuse, mental health problems, substance abuse, and high-risk sexual behavior has rarely been studied in the female Native American population. Significant relationships were found among childhood abuse, trauma, substance abuse, and high-risk sexual behavior among urban Native women.
Effects of litigation on maintenance of psychological symptoms after severe hand injury.	Severe psychological symptoms after severe work-related hand injury, manifested as posttraumatic stress disorder, are not significantly potentiated or sustained by concomitant litigation if the patient has had early psychologic intervention. This study does not support assumptions about "accident neurosis" that delays recovery from the psychological sequelae of severe work-related hand injury.
Psychological wellbeing of survivors of the tsunami: empowerment and quality of life.	To compare the empowerment and the quality of life of individuals before and after receiving the psychological services and support interventions.
Clarifying the definition of bullying]	Bullying is a much discussed and studied concept and yet there is a huge amount of terms and definitions that describe it. The lack of unity and precision around bullying raises several questions, notably in the judicial field. Indeed, how can judges determine if a given situation comes close to bullying or not if they do not have a precise definition of what bullying consists in? The French law attempts to clarify this concept, but it still remains vague on several points, highlighting the effects of bullying without explaining its causes and nature.
Meaning in life and personal growth among pediatric physicians and nurses.	Studies examining medical teams indicate that exposure to the terminally ill often has detrimental effects on their physical and emotional well-being. However, recent theoretical developments suggest that this exposure might also have positive implications. The current study sought to examine 2 positive outcomes, meaning in life and personal growth, among physicians and nurses working with hospitalized children and exposed to different levels of patient mortality. In addition, the contribution of level of secondary traumatization and the personal resources of professional self-esteem and optimism were examined. The sample consisted of 58 physicians and 66 nurses working in pediatric hemato-oncology, pediatric intensive care units, and pediatric internal medicine wards in Israel. The findings indicate that a higher level of exposure to patient death, higher optimism, and professional self-esteem, and lower secondary traumatization predicted the sense of meaning in life, whereas occupation, as well as higher professional self-esteem and higher level of secondary traumatization, especially among lower professional self-esteem individuals, predicted a higher experience of personal growth. In addition, nurses reported higher levels of professional self-esteem, secondary traumatization, and personal growth than physicians. The theoretical and practical implications of the results are discussed.
The King's Cross fire. Part 2: The psychological injuries.	This paper describes the experiences of six people who received severe burns in the King's Cross Underground Station fire of 1987. They all developed post-traumatic stress disorder to varying levels of intensity and the problems of psychological intervention as they related to the patients' different mental defence mechanisms are outlined.
An integrated model of risk and protective factors for post-deployment PTSD symptoms in OEF/OIF era combat veterans.	Few attempts have been made to integrate the known risk factors for combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) into a comprehensive model. This study investigated relative contributions of combat experiences, post-battle experiences, and perceptions of threat to post-deployment PTSD symptoms, and also examined whether pre-deployment preparedness moderated associations among these variables.
Beyond the neglect of psychological consequences: post-traumatic stress disorder increases the non-fatal burden of injury by more than 50%.	Psychological consequences such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are currently neglected in burden-of-injury calculations.
Peritraumatic heart rate and posttraumatic stress disorder in patients with severe burns.	Previous studies have suggested a link between heart rate (HR) following trauma and the development of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). This study expands on previous work by evaluating HR in burn patients followed longitudinally for symptoms of acute stress disorder (ASD) and PTSD.
Time to wake up the patients in the ICU: a crazy idea or common sense?	With the first generation of ventilators, it was often necessary to sedate patients to avoid dyssynchrony between patient and ventilator. The standard treatment of patients in need of mechanical ventilation has therefore traditionally included sedation. Modern ventilators are able to simulate the patients breathing efforts to a higher degree, and therefore, deep sedation is no longer necessary. In the last decade, support has grown for a reduction in the use of sedation. The focus has been placed on the correlation between the depth of sedation and the length of mechanical ventilation. It has been shown that a daily wake up trial reduced the time that patients were dependent on mechanical ventilation. Additionally, it has been shown that combining both a spontaneous breathing trial and a daily wake up trial reduced the mechanical ventilation time compared to a spontaneous breathing trial alone. We have recently shown in a randomized study that the use of no sedation, compared to the standard treatment with sedation and a daily wake up trial, reduced the time that patients required mechanical ventilation, the length of the patients' stay in the intensive care unit, and the total length of the hospital stay. All evidence indicates that the use of sedative drugs should be reduced, patients should be mobilized, and each patient's needs should be evaluated on a daily basis to optimize the care of each individual patient.
An interpersonally based intervention for low-income pregnant women with intimate partner violence: a pilot study.	This study assessed the initial feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of an intervention aimed at reducing depression and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in a sample of low-income pregnant women with recent intimate partner violence (IPV). Fifty-four women were randomly assigned to the intervention or control group. The intervention consisted of four sessions during pregnancy and one "booster" session within 2 weeks of delivery. Based on principles of Interpersonal Psychotherapy, the intervention was designed to help participants improve their interpersonal relationships, including their social support networks, and master their role transition to motherhood. Assessments were administered at four time points (intake, 5-6 weeks post-intake, 2 weeks postpartum, 3 months postpartum) to assess for depression, PTSD, and IPV. The intervention did not significantly reduce the likelihood of a major depressive episode, PTSD, or IPV during pregnancy or up to 3-month postpartum. However, we found moderate effects for the intervention in reducing symptoms of PTSD and depression during pregnancy and a large effect for PTSD symptoms from pregnancy up to 3 months postpartum. This study suggests some initial support for our intervention. Larger randomized trials are needed to further examine the intervention both during and after pregnancy.
Return to work after 9/11.	This case study is a report of a rehabilitative employment program that used trauma focused group treatment with individuals who suffered from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) post 9/11. The program was developed in order to assist them to return to the work force. These Individuals lost their jobs because of the 9/11 terrorist attack and experienced financial difficulty, yet because of their PTSD symptoms, had difficulty seeking employment. Individuals were selected for group treatment based on the presence of PTSD symptoms as measured by The Posttraumatic Stress Diagnostic Scale, an external locus of control determined by the Internal and External Locus of Control Scale, low self-esteem as per the Self-Efficacy Scale, and hopelessness, as assessed through the Hopelessness Scale. Additional assessments (Role Checklist, Psychiatric Rehabilitation Determination, Vocational Sentence Completion, Activity Record of the Occupational Questionnaire, and an interview that included a work history) were administered by an occupational therapist. Results of these assessments were used to inform group co-leaders (one social worker and one occupational therapist per group) of their members' symptoms, coping mechanisms, attitudes towards work, rehabilitation readiness, life roles and values, and use of time in order to plan appropriate group intervention. Groups met for once-a-week 90 minute sessions. Group leaders used restructuring and systematic prolonged exposure to encourage group members to describe their traumatic experiences in order to neutralize negative affect states, mange symptoms, and work through guilt and distorted perceptions. Members attended until they began gainful employment. Descriptive data revealed that during the first year of the program, 9/11/2001-9/11/2002, 262 of the 3,567 clients seen (13.6%) returned to the work force.
A model of the effects of child sexual abuse on post-traumatic stress: the mediating role of attributions of blame and avoidance coping]	Employing structural equation modeling, the direct and indirect effects of the severity of Child Sexual Abuse (CSA), attributions of blame for the abuse, and coping strategies on Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) symptomatology are analyzed. The effects of other types of child maltreatment on PTSD were also controlled. The sample comprised 163 female college students who were victims of CSA. The results suggested that victims of more severe abuse showed higher levels of avoidant coping, self blame, and family blame. Having suffered other kinds of abuse or neglect was also related to higher family blame attributions. Lastly, both attributions of blame scales were indirectly related to PTSD symptomatology through avoidant coping. The strong relationships between attributions of blame, coping strategies, and PTSD suggest that it might be useful to intervene early with children who have suffered CSA in an effort to modify the attributions they make about the abuse and the way they cope with it.
Reasons for not receiving treatment in people with posttraumatic stress disorder following war.	The aim of the study was to explore why people suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) following war do not receive treatment. A total of 212 participants who have PTSD following war in the Balkans and have never received psychiatric treatment were interviewed (86 in Western Europe and 126 in Balkan countries). Answers were subjected to thematic content analysis. Five major and not mutually exclusive themes were identified: "need no help" (57 participants), "personal ways of coping" (72 participants), "negative attitude towards psychiatric treatment" (91 participants), "comparative insignificance" (24 participants), and "external barriers" (65 participants). While most participants, for different reasons, did not want to seek psychiatric treatment, a significant number, particularly in Western European countries, felt prevented from receiving treatment.
PTSD after traumatic injury: an investigation of the impact of injury severity and peritraumatic moderators.	Presence of injury is often examined as a risk factor for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD); however, results have been mixed regarding the relationship between injury severity and PTSD symptoms (PTSS). The present study examined subjective and objective injury severity ratings in traumatic injury victims to determine if they differentially predict PTSS. Results demonstrated that subjective, not objective, injury severity predicted PTSS at six weeks and three months post-trauma. The moderating impact of peritraumatic factors was also examined. Peritraumatic dissociation moderated the impact of subjective injury severity on PTSS. Findings indicate that subjective injury severity should be incorporated into early screeners for PTSD risk.
Epigenetic aspects of posttraumatic stress disorder.	Development of psychiatric diseases such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) invokes, as with most complex diseases, both genetic and environmental factors. The era of genome-wide high throughput technologies has sparked the initiation of genotype screenings in large cohorts of diseased and control individuals, but had limited success in identification of disease causing genetic variants. It has become evident that these efforts at the genomic level need to be complemented with endeavours in elucidating the proteome, transcriptome and epigenetic profiles. Epigenetics is attractive in particular because there is accumulating evidence that the lasting impact of adverse life events is reflected in certain covalent modifications of the chromatin. In this review, we outline the characteristics of PTSD as a stress-related disease and survey recent developments revealing epigenetic aspects of stress-related disorders in general. There is also increasing direct evidence for gene programming and epigenetic components in PTSD. Finally, we discuss treatment options in the light of recent discoveries of epigenetic mechanisms of psychotropic drugs.
The impact of the conflicts of Iraq and Afghanistan: a UK perspective.	Concerns about the mental health of military personnel deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan has led to a new generation of research. This review is an examination of the UK literature on the mental health consequences of deployment of armed forces personnel to Iraq and Afghanistan. As yet, deployment to Iraq or Afghanistan has not been associated with a general increase in mental health problems for the UK Armed Forces. However, research has highlighted certain problems that continue to need to be addressed. Whilst, the rate of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is low in the UK Armed Forces (1.6-6%), deployment to Iraq or Afghanistan is associated with an increased risk of PTSD for reserve personnel. In contrast to PTSD, the rate of alcohol misuse is high in the UK Armed Forces (between 16-20%), and has been associated with deployment to Iraq or Afghanistan for regular personnel. As the UK military engagement in Afghanistan continues and more personnel are deployed, the demand for help from military health services, the NHS and the service charities will increase.
PTSD among military personnel.	Although symptoms characteristic of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) have been noted in military personnel for many centuries, it was not until 1980 that the disorder was formally recognized and became the focus of legitimate study. This paper reviews our current state of knowledge regarding the prevalence and course of this complex condition in past and present members of the defence forces. Although rates vary across conflicts and countries, there is no doubt that PTSD affects substantial numbers of personnel and results in considerable impairment in functioning and quality of life. The paper goes on to discuss recent attempts to build resilience and to promote adjustment following deployment, noting that there is little evidence at this stage upon which to draw firm conclusions. Finally, effective treatment for PTSD is reviewed, with particular reference to the challenges posed by this population in a treatment setting.
Differences in psychosocial functioning and sleep quality between idiopathic continuous orofacial neuropathic pain patients and chronic masticatory muscle pain patients.	To examine differences between idiopathic continuous orofacial neuropathic pain (ICONP) patients and chronic masticatory muscle pain (MMP) patients for psychosocial functioning and sleep quality.
Resting cerebral glucose metabolism and perfusion patterns in women with posttraumatic stress disorder related to sexual assault.	In the literature, numerous trials using neuroimaging techniques have investigated brain function in patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, the contrasting results showed that improvements, including in the study design, were required to reach consistent and convincing conclusions. This study evaluated the functional neuroimaging pattern of resting cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism in patients with PTSD related to sexual assault. Twelve patients were enrolled for both brain single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET) investigations. All data were analyzed with statistical parametric mapping 2 (SPM2). The PTSD patients showed significant relative decreases in perfusion in the left hippocampus and in the basal ganglia compared with the control group. The PTSD group also had significantly lower cerebral glucosemetabolic activity in the left hippocampus and the superior temporal and precentral gyri than in the control group. These specific patterns of perfusion and glucose metabolism may be closely related to various neurophysiologic symptoms of PTSD.
Exposure to political conflict and violence and posttraumatic stress in Middle East youth: protective factors.	We examine the role of family- and individual-level protective factors in the relation between exposure to ethnic-political conflict and violence and posttraumatic stress among Israeli and Palestinian youth. Specifically, we examine whether parental mental health (lack of depression), positive parenting, children's self-esteem, and academic achievement moderate the relation between exposure to ethnic-political conflict/violence and subsequent posttraumatic stress (PTS) symptoms. We collected three waves of data from 901 Israeli and 600 Palestinian youths (three age cohorts: 8, 11, and 14 years old; approximately half of each gender) and their parents at 1-year intervals. Greater cumulative exposure to ethnic-political conflict/violence across the first 2 waves of the study predicted higher subsequent PTS symptoms even when we controlled for the child's initial level of PTS symptoms. This relation was significantly moderated by a youth's self-esteem and by the positive parenting received by the youth. In particular, the longitudinal relation between exposure to violence and subsequent PTS symptoms was significant for low self-esteem youth and for youth receiving little positive parenting but was non-significant for children with high levels of these protective resources. Our findings show that youth most vulnerable to PTS symptoms as a result of exposure to ethnic-political violence are those with lower levels of self-esteem and who experience low levels of positive parenting. Interventions for war-exposed youth should test whether boosting self-esteem and positive parenting might reduce subsequent levels of PTS symptoms.
Peritraumatic distress: its relationship to posttraumatic stress and complicated grief symptoms in sudden death survivors.	Although sudden death has been linked to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), its role in complicated grief (CG) and sudden death survivors is unknown. This questionnaire study investigated the role of peritraumatic distress in PTSD and CG symptoms in adults (n = 125) an average of 28.37 months (SD = 3.12) after a loved one's sudden death. The Peritraumatic Distress Inventory, Impact of Event Scale-Revised, and Inventory of Complicated Grief were administered to assess symptoms of peritraumatic distress, PTSD, and CG, respectively. Peritraumatic distress was the strongest correlate of both PTSD (β = .42, p < .001) and CG (β = .39, p < .001) symptoms, in a model containing current distress (Hopkins Symptom Checklist-21). Peritraumatic distress may be a key mechanism in the development of both PTSD and CG, therefore suddenly bereaved individuals reporting higher peritraumatic distress may be at risk of both adverse trauma and grief reactions.
Can anesthesia trigger delayed-onset posttraumatic stress disorder in veterans?	The clinical presentation of a 60-year-old Vietnam veteran who developed delayed-onset posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after surgery is presented along with mechanisms for storing traumatic memory and a discussion of the potential contributions of anesthesia and aging to his clinical presentation.
Early period psychiatric disorders following burn trauma and the importance of surgical factors in the etiology.	We aimed to assess early period psychiatric disorders following burn trauma.
Increased neuronal apoptosis in medial prefrontal cortex is accompanied with changes of Bcl-2 and Bax in a rat model of post-traumatic stress disorder.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder caused by traumatic experience, which affects a patient's quality of life and social stability. The objective of this study was to determine the apoptosis-related genes B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and BCL2-associated X (Bax) expressions and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neuronal apoptosis after PTSD in rat model and therefore to provide experimental evidence to reveal PTSD pathogenesis. The single-prolonged stress (SPS) method was used to set up the rat PTSD models. Chemiluminescence was used to determine serum corticosterone levels. Neuronal apoptosis was detected using transmission electron microscopy, Hoechst staining, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining. Immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, RT-PCR, and Western blot were used to detect the expressions of Bcl-2 and Bax protein in mPFC. Our results showed an increased mPFC neuronal apoptosis after SPS stimulation. The number of apoptotic cells peaked on day 7. The expressions of Bcl-2 and Bax peaked on days 4 and 7. The Bcl-2/Bax ratio elevated on days 1 and 4 but decreased markedly on day 7. These results indicated that SPS stimulation increased the number of apoptotic neurons, up-regulated the expressions of Bcl-2 and Bax, and altered the Bcl-2/Bax ratio in the mPFC of PTSD rats. 
Military and civilian disaster response and resilience: from gene to policy.	Disasters, such as war, terrorism, and natural disasters, affect individuals, groups, and communities. Although the focus is often on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), it is only one of many potential responses to traumatic experiences. Fostering community and individual resilience can help mitigate the effects of disaster. Research, education, and early intervention are integral tools to inform an effective response. The Center for the Study of Traumatic Stress (CSTS) at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences ascribes to such a model in its approach. Recent studies confirm that appreciation of biology and its relation to trauma response are necessary to our understanding of trauma's effects on humans, including trauma-associated disorders, resiliency, and recovery.
Gender differences in subjective sleep after trauma and the development of posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms: a pilot study.	Women are at higher risk than men for developing posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) following certain types of trauma such as accidents and assaults. Sleep disturbances have been implicated in the development of PTSD. Although gender differences in objective sleep soon after trauma have been found in a prior polysomnographic study, gender differences in subjective sleep soon after trauma and their associations to the development of PTSD have not been examined. This pilot study prospectively examined whether gender moderated the relationship between subjective sleep soon after trauma and PTSD symptom development. Injury patients (17 women, 28 men) completed a sleep questionnaire and a 1-week sleep diary 2 weeks after their injuries, and the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale at 7-weeks postinjury. Results showed that women reported greater frequency of nightmares and disruptive nocturnal behaviors (e.g., hot flashes, memories/nightmares about trauma) following the trauma and more severe PTSD symptoms at 7 weeks. Further, gender moderated the relationship between sleep-onset latency and PTSD symptom severity, such that longer sleep-onset latency predicted more severe PTSD symptoms in men, but less severe PTSD symptoms in women. These findings suggest that gender-specific mechanisms may underlie the relationship between sleep impairment and the development of PTSD. 
Neuropsychological findings in pediatric maltreatment: relationship of PTSD, dissociative symptoms, and abuse/neglect indices to neurocognitive outcomes.	Maltreated (n = 38), maltreated + posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD; n = 60), and control youth (n = 104) underwent comprehensive neuropsychological testing. The two maltreated groups performed significantly lower on IQ, academic achievement, and nearly all of the neurocognitive domains than controls. Maltreated + PTSD performed significantly worse than maltreated youth without PTSD on a task in the visuospatial domain that assessed higher order visuoconstructive abilities. No group differences were evident on the fine motor domain. PTSD diagnosis duration negatively correlated with the visuospatial, and dissociation negatively correlated with the attention domain. Cumulative lifetime maltreatment types experienced negatively correlated with academic achievement. Sexual abuse negatively correlated with language and memory functions after controlling for other maltreatment types. These data support the adverse effects of maltreatment on neuropsychological functions in youth and suggest that all child protective services identified youth should be comprehensively examined for the integrity of their neuropsychological functioning and academic skills, regardless of the presence or absence of mental health symptoms. 
Impact of coping style and PTSD on family functioning after deployment in Operation Desert Shield/Storm returnees.	The relationship between military combat and postdeployment family functioning difficulties has been frequently investigated in the literature, as has the relationship between types of coping and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Few studies, however, have examined these variables together, and no studies of which we are aware have examined the effect of coping on family functioning after combat exposure. This study examined coping style measured immediately after return from deployment, and PTSD symptoms and family functioning 18-24 months after return from deployment in a sample of Operation Desert Shield/Storm veterans (N = 2,949). Structural equation models suggested that the relationships between distinct coping styles on family functioning were differentially mediated by postdeployment PTSD symptoms. Results are consistent with full mediation for avoidant coping (βdirect = -.09, p = .07; βindirect = -.17, p < .001) and partial mediation for approach coping (βdirect = .16, p < .001; βindirect = .09, p < .001). Results suggest that the strategies used to cope with a combat stress event may impact both PTSD and family functioning outcomes, and highlight the potential utility of pre- and postdeployment coping skills training. 
Postconcussional disorder and PTSD symptoms of military-related traumatic brain injury associated with compromised neurocircuitry.	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a common combat injury, often through explosive blast, and produces heterogeneous brain changes due to various mechanisms of injury. It is unclear whether the vulnerability of white matter differs between blast and impact injury, and the consequences of microstructural changes on neuropsychological function are poorly understood in military TBI patients. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) techniques were used to assess the neurocircuitry in 37 U.S. service members (29 mild, 7 moderate, 1 severe; 17 blast and 20 nonblast), who sustained a TBI while deployed, compared to 14 nondeployed, military controls. High-dimensional deformable registration of MRI diffusion tensor data was followed by fiber tracking and tract-specific analysis along with region-of-interest analysis. DTI results were examined in relation to post-concussion and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. The most prominent white matter microstructural injury for both blast and nonblast patients was in the frontal fibers within the fronto-striatal (corona radiata, internal capsule) and fronto-limbic circuits (fornix, cingulum), the fronto-parieto-occipital association fibers, in brainstem fibers, and in callosal fibers. Subcortical superior-inferiorly oriented tracts were more vulnerable to blast injury than nonblast injury, while direct impact force had more detrimental effects on anterior-posteriorly oriented tracts, which tended to cause heterogeneous left and right hemispheric asymmetries of white matter connectivity. The tractography using diffusion anisotropy deficits revealed the cortico-striatal-thalamic-cerebellar-cortical (CSTCC) networks, where increased post-concussion and PTSD symptoms were associated with low fractional anisotropy in the major nodes of compromised CSTCC neurocircuitry, and the consequences on cognitive function were explored as well.
Early educational and behavioral RCT interventions to reduce maternal symptoms of psychological trauma following preterm birth: a systematic review.	Early behavioral and educational interventions have been developed to reduce maternal symptoms of psychological trauma (depression, anxiety, parenting stress, acute stress disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder) following preterm birth (PTB). Aims of this systematic review were to critically assess study methodology and provide a synthesis of existing randomized control trial (RCT) interventions and to estimate effects of the interventions in reducing the maternal symptoms across studies. Four electronic databases were systematically searched to locate relevant RCTs using preestablished eligibility criteria. Data from 8 qualifying RCTs were synthesized. Two reviewers independently assessed study methodology using appraisal checklists. Considerable heterogeneity precluded calculation of pooled estimates. There is evidence that mothers of very preterm infants of low-birth-weight experience major depression for up to 12 months following PTB. Sound interventions implemented during and following infant hospitalization and grounded in coping and self-regulation had a small to moderate effect in reducing maternal depression and anxiety and parenting stress for up to 2 months and 12 months respectively. Clinicians can use existing evidence to help guide best practices. Future high-quality RCTs and meta-analysis require that researchers improve study methodology and include analysis of data on maternal hormonal stress and history of psychological symptoms including during the pregnancy. 
Use of hypnosis in the treatment of combat post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)]	Clinical reports and observations going back almost two centuries consistently indicate that hypnotherapy is an effective modality for the treatment of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Pierre Janet was the first clinician to describe the successful initiation of stepwise hypnotic techniques in PTSD symptom reduction. Hypnotherapy may accelerate the formation of a therapeutic alliance and contribute to a positive treatment outcome. Hypnotic techniques may be valuable for patients with PTSD who exhibit symptoms such as anxiety, dissociation, widespread somatoform pain complaints and sleep disturbances. Hypnotic techniques may also facilitate the arduous tasks of working through traumatic memories, increasing coping skills, and promoting a sense of competency. In this review we will present guidelines for the stepwise implementation of hypnotherapy in PTSD. Since most data regarding the use of hypnotherapy in PTSD has been gathered from uncontrolled clinical observations, methodologically sound research demonstrating the efficacy of hypnotic techniques in PTSD is required for hypnotherapy to be officially added to the therapeutic armamentarium for this disorder.
The psychosocial and affective burden of posttraumatic neuropathy following injuries to the trigeminal nerve.	To explore the impact of trigeminal nerve injuries on quality of life, including the effect of pain on psychological and affective function.
The impact of immigration detention on the mental health of torture survivors is poorly documented--a systematic review.	Torture has enduring mental and physical health consequences for survivors. Detention of asylum seekers is an integrated part of the immigration systems in many countries. Among the asylum seekers are vulnerable groups such as survivors of torture and severely traumatized refugees. The aim of the present study is to review the scientific evidence on the mental health consequences of immigration detention for adult survivors of torture.
A review on the evidence of transgenerational  transmission of posttraumatic stress disorder  vulnerability.	To understand the risks of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) development in the next generation of PTSD patients, we conducted a review on the biological, but not genetic, evidence of transgenerational transmission of PTSD vulnerability.
Not so close but still extremely loud: recollection of the World Trade Center terror attack and previous hurricanes moderates the association between exposure to hurricane Sandy and posttraumatic stress symptoms.	The present study examined whether recollections of the World Trade Center (WTC) terror attack and previous hurricanes moderated the relationship between exposure to Hurricane Sandy and related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms.
Anxiety after a fall in elderly subjects and subsequent risk of developing post traumatic stress disorder at two months. A pilot study.	The psychological burden suffered by elderly subjects after a fall adds to rehabilitation difficulties. We hypothesised that Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) may be at the root of these psychological post-fall problems. The immediate psychological state was examined after 2 months post-fall in order to determine the prevalence of anxiety and PTSD and their possible correlates.
Posttraumatic stress symptoms in breast cancer patients: temporal evolution, predictors, and mediation.	This study (N = 102 women) evaluated the time course of posttraumatic stress symptomatology (PTSS) at different stages of nonmetastastic cancer diagnosis and treatment: during treatment, at the end of treatment, and at a 6-12 months follow-up. We also assessed the contribution of demographic, trait, and state predictors to PTSS, and coping processes as proximal mediators of the relation between Type C personality and PTSS. Results indicated that PTSS remained constant across all phases. There were significant correlations (range = .28 to .81) between PTSS and psychosocial variables and age, but not with other sociodemographic or medical factors. A linear growth curve model showed that hopelessness/helplessness (B = 1.45) and Type C personality (B = 1.40) were the best predictors of PTSD symptomatology, followed by trait dissociation (B = 0.55), and the coping strategies of anxious preoccupation (B = 1.20), cognitive avoidance (B = 0.91), and symptoms of acute stress disorder (B = 0.19). A mediation model showed that the coping strategies of anxious preoccupation, cognitive avoidance, and helplessness/hopelessness mediated the relationship between Type C personality and PTSS during treatment, posttreatment, and follow-up. These results clarify the contribution of different predictors of PTSS and can help develop prevention programs. 
Self-defense training as clinical intervention for survivors of trauma.	A well-designed self-defense curriculum, congruent with psychophysiologically informed trauma research and treatment, and integrated with input from therapists, can serve as an important adjunctive treatment. We provide a detailed description of such a program modified to be an experiential, psychoeducational intervention for female survivors of trauma. Recent research on the role of blocked motor responses in the development of pathology post-trauma is explored as a potential explanatory mechanism for the therapeutic benefits of self-defense training. Through specific examples and descriptions of teaching methods, we examine how this intervention compliments and augments traditional psychotherapeutic treatment of trauma sequelae. 
Predictors of post-traumatic psychological growth in the late years after lung transplantation.	Although lung transplantation improves quality of life, most psychosocial research focuses on adverse psychological and social functioning outcomes. Positive effects, particularly in the late-term years as physical morbidities increase, have received little attention. We provide the first data on a psychological benefit - post-traumatic growth (PTG) - and we focused on long-term (>5 yr) survivors.
One more word about the diagnostic. A metapsychological approach]	Nearly a decade since the first experiment in France of the so-called "announcement policy" a concerted effort, the pooling of skills of health professionals from different backgrounds, have had noticeable positive effects on the daily practice. This article attempts at analyzing the question that was causing the application of former patients and their main complaint: the lack of communication and its direct consequences, anguish and loneliness. Subsequently, the announcement policy, this multifaceted approach, had consisted of creating for the patient what can be called "a good enough environment able to hold". It is therefore not a plan but a disposal (if we are willing to agree on the fact that these are the qualities of the therapeutic setting that count and not the format by itself). Considering the ipseity of each patient, the uniqueness of each particular situation, of each social background, the need for harmonization of the announcement policy is questionable. Harmonization does not mean uniformity. The quality of this policy must be adapted closer to each case. However, it must be based on the basic principles and might also take into account the dimension of anguish. These fundamental principles are directly derived from the principles of medical humanism, those that have brought meaning to scientific progress. 
Leg extension power is a pre-disaster modifiable risk factor for post-traumatic stress disorder among survivors of the Great East Japan Earthquake: a retrospective cohort study.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common psychological problem following natural disasters. Although pre-disaster risk factors are important for early detection and proactive support, the examination of such has been limited to sociodemographic factors, which were largely unaffected by the disasters. We examined the association between pre-disaster physical functioning and lifestyle and PTSD symptoms five months after the earthquake in the Great East Japan Earthquake survivors who were participating in a pre-existing cohort study.
Early psychological aspects of severe hand injury.	We investigated the incidence and nature of psychological symptoms occurring during the first two months after severe hand injuries. 94% of patients had significant symptoms at some point early in rehabilitation, including nightmares (92%), flashbacks (88%), affective lability (84%), preoccupation with phantom limb sensations (13%), concentration/attention problems (12%), cosmetic concerns (10%), fear of death (5%), and denial of amputation (3%). Two months later, flashbacks (63%) remained pronounced. Nightmares (13%), affective lability (48%), concentration/attention problems (5%), fear of death (0%), and denial of amputation (0%) declined markedly, while cosmetic concerns (17%) and preoccupation with phantom limb sensations (17%) increased. Based on these findings, we believe that psychological treatment should often be given as part of the rehabilitation process.
Delayed psychiatric sequelae among Falklands war veterans.	The only published account to date of psychiatric complications among Falklands war veterans suggests that acute reactions are rare. Reported here are three cases of severe delayed reactions in Falklands veterans from South Wales. All three cases demonstrate a common pattern similar to that shown by Vietnam war veterans. Possible aetiological factors and prevention are discussed. It seems likely that relatives of combatants will also be affected and general practitioners are in a unique position to recognize and treat these problems.
Compensation neurosis. Synonyms: accident neurosis, post-traumatic neurosis.	Compensation neurosis is a severe and distressing condition to the individual. Its ramifications are complex and costly, involving often the family, the employer, other road users, the medical profession, the legal profession, trade union representation and society as a whole.
Psychologic scars remain 50 years after Dieppe raid, study of Canadian veterans finds.	A Toronto psychologist has conducted a 50-year follow-up study of the psychologic problems faced by Canadian troops who landed on the beaches of Dieppe, France, in 1942. Lynne Beal says many of the men have suffered in silence, never realizing that they were experiencing the widespread condition known as post-traumatic stress disorder. The veterans hope her work will help them win greater official recognition of their condition.
Male rape: the impact of a legal definition on the clinical area.	Recently the awareness of the issues surrounding male rape has received increased attention by both mental health workers and the general public following the introduction of the Sexual Offences Act 1994, and the recent case at the Old Bailey where a historical breakthrough was made in June 1995 following the first conviction for male rape under the new law. However, most of this attention has not resulted in many clinical breakthroughs in helping male rape survivors overcome the post-assault impact. Little is known about the prevalence, types of assault, consequences facing survivors and therapeutic options. Some evidence is being reported that male rape survivors develop Post Traumatic Stress Disorder following the assault. It has long been recognized that this is the case with female rape survivors, but to date there have been no significant UK prevalence studies which have examined this relationship. This paper discusses some of the issues surrounding male rape by focusing on the possible effects of the recent legal change on the clinical area.
Trauma and the development of borderline personality disorder.	Prolonged and severe trauma, particularly trauma that occurs early in the life cycle, tends to result in a chronic inability to modulate emotions. When this occurs, people can mobilize a range of behaviors that are best understood as attempts at self-soothing. Some of these attempts include clinging and indiscriminate relationships with others in which old traumas are re-enacted over time, as well as more self-directed behaviors such as self-mutilation, eating disorders, and substance abuse. Usually, these behaviors will coexist. Patients with complicated trauma histories often repetitively attempt suicide or engage in chronic self-destructive behavior, and need to address issues of childhood trauma, neglect, and abandonment, both in the past and as re-experienced in current relationships. When treating these patients, therapists must anticipate that painful affects related to interpersonal safety, anger, and emotional needs may give rise to dissociative episodes, which may, in turn, be accompanied by increased self-destructive behavior. The therapy must clarify how current stresses are experienced as a return of past traumas and how small disruptions in present relationships are seen as a repetition of prior abandonment. As part of this, it is essential that the therapist provide validation and support, and avoid participating in a re-enactment of the trauma. Fear needs to be tamed in order for people to be able to think and be conscious of current needs. This bodily response of fear can be mitigated by safety of attachments, security of meaning schemes, and by a body whose reactions to environmental stress can be predicted and controlled. One of the great mysteries of the processing of traumatic experience is that as long as the trauma is experienced as speechless terror, the body continues to keep score and react to conditioned stimuli as a return of the trauma. When the mind is able to create symbolic representations of these past experiences, however, there often seems to be a taming of terror, a desomatization of experience. As Ducey and van der Kolk found in the Rorschachs of Vietnam veterans, patients were unresponsive to outside influences (good or bad) as long as they remained in a state of psychic numbing. Faced with intrusions of past trauma in their current emotional life, patients' initial sense of being overwhelmed was mastered only when a link between past trauma and current perceptions became understood.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Characteristics of emergency services personnel related to peritraumatic dissociation during critical incident exposure.	The aim of this study was to identify characteristics of emergency services personnel related to acute dissociative responses at the time of critical incident exposure, a phenomenon designated "peritraumatic dissociation."
Post-traumatic stress disorder in children and adolescents following road traffic accidents.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can be a persistent and disabling psychiatric disorder. There is little systematic research into the psychiatric consequences of road traffic accidents (RTAs) in children and adolescents.
Reactivation of posttraumatic stress disorder after minor head injury.	This report describes the reactivation of a posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after a minor head injury in two young women who had recovered from extreme stress caused by sexual abuse during adolescence. Intrusive thoughts, images, dreams, and phobic avoidance bear a direct relationship to the specific circumstances of both head injury and sexual abuse, and were associated with obsessive-compulsive symptoms, generalized anxiety with panic, and depression. These findings suggest that in some individuals minor head injuries may induce not only extreme stress reactions, but also cause the reactivation of symptoms related to previous traumatic experiences.
Medical negligence and post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).	Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is well recognised as a consequence of natural and man-made disasters, accidents and assaults. An increasing number of plaintiffs making claims for compensation alleging medical negligence complain of the symptoms of PTSD. Medical accidents such as anaesthetic awareness and stillbirths may be claimed as stressors and relatives may allege PTSD as a psychological injury following witnessing the death or suffering of a loved one. A series of cases will be presented. Many cases are entirely genuine but increasing media publicity has alerted potential plaintiffs and their legal advisers to the symptoms of PTSD which make evaluation of symptoms difficult for psychiatric experts. Psychometric tests exist to screen PTSD but research has shown that they can be falsified and it would be unwise to rely on such tests.
Two-phase treatment of panic disorder and posttraumatic stress disorder with associated personality features resulting from childhood abuse: case study.	The treatment of a women diagnosed with panic disorder with Agoraphobia and posttraumatic stress disorder and maladaptive personality features resulting from childhood sexual and physical abuse is described. The treatment consisted of nine sessions of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for Panic Disorder with Agoraphobia and nine sessions of implosive therapy (IT) for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. CBT decreased scores on the clinical scales of the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI), but did not reduce revised Impact of Event Scale (IES) scores, or Dimensional Assessment of Personality Problems-Basic Questionnaire (DAPP-BQ). IT decreased scores on the IES and the DAPP-BQ, and further reduced scores on the PAI. The results are discussed with regard to Levis' (1985) implosive theory of psychopathology, which suggests that psychopathology can be explained by Pavlovian conditioning of serial cues and instrumentally conditioned avoidance responses.
Psychodynamic-supportive group therapy model for elderly Holocaust survivors.	The physical and mental consequences of the Holocaust combined with difficult present events and the problems of old age can have devastating effects on survivors. Our clinic has recently introduced a psychodynamic-supportive group therapy model for elderly Holocaust survivors. The model includes specific integrative interventions, which are based on Horowitz's model of mourning and coping with stress and the leaders' clinical experience. The aim of the group is to improve the patients' homeostasis and enhance their ego functions and adaptation to inner and outer worlds. The theory and working model are described.
The psychosocial effects of landmines in Cambodia.	The widespread use of landmines in conflict situations around the world and their continuing legacy for the civilian population in injuries, amputations, disabilities and economic costs has been recognized as a major problem. However, the psychosocial consequences for landmine victims are still to be realized. Although there are some facilities for the medical, orthopaedic and long-term rehabilitative care of landmine victims, hardly any exist for their psychosocial needs. This study considers the mental costs in terms of post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. Individual difficulty in relationships and daily functioning is considerable, and the landmine victim faces social stigmatization, rejection and unemployment. Suggestions are made for brief training in relatively simple mental health care for staff working in already functioning programmes.
Juvenile male rape victims: is the level of post-traumatic stress related to personality and parenting?	The purpose of this study was to assess the level of post-traumatic stress in juvenile male rape victims and to test for its relationships with perceived parental rearing and personality dimensions.
Psychological impact of emergency cesarean section in comparison with elective cesarean section, instrumental and normal vaginal delivery.	The purpose of the study was to compare the psychological reactions of women after emergency Cesarean section (EmCS), elective Cesarean section (ElCS), instrumental vaginal delivery (IVD) and normal vaginal delivery (NVD). The participants (EmCS, n = 71, ElCS, n = 70, IVD, n = 89, and NVD, n = 96) answered questionnaires a few days postpartum and 1 month postpartum. The EmCS group reported the most negative delivery experience at both times, followed by the IVD group. At a few days postpartum the EmCS group experienced more general mental distress than the NVD group, but not when compared with the ElCS or the IVD groups. At 1 month postpartum the EmCS group showed more symptoms of post-traumatic stress than the ElCS and NVD groups, but not when compared to the IVD group. An unplanned instrumental delivery (EmCS or IVD) should be regarded as a pointer with respect to possible post-traumatic stress.
