Co-adhesion and removal of adhering bacteria from salivary pellicles by three different modes of brushing.	This study compares removal of pairs of co-adhering and non-co-adhering oral actinomyces and streptococci by hand, electric and sonic brushing from salivary pellicles. In addition, re-deposition of a co-adhering and non-co-adhering streptococcal strain to brushed pellicles was studied. First, actinomyces were allowed to adhere to a pellicle in a flow chamber, after which streptococci suspended in saliva were perfused through the chamber at 33 C. Pellicles with adhering bacterial pairs were brushed and the number of bacteria remaining determined. Whereas sonic brushing removed nearly all adhering bacteria, greater numbers of larger aggregates of the co-adhering pair, involving Streptococcus oralis J22, were left behind after hand and electric brushing than of the non-co-adhering pair with Streptococcus sanguis PK1889. Re-deposition of streptococci to electrically and sonically brushed pellicles, however, was two-fold higher for the co-adhering pair than for the non-co-adhering pair. This demonstrates a role for co-adhesion in de novo plaque formation. Removal by the three different modes of brushing was not affected by the presence of fluoride, indicating that fluoride is not able to disrupt calcium bridges between co-adhering pairs. In contrast, in the presence of lactose only small aggregates of co-adhering pair were left behind.
Mercuric resistance genes in gram-positive oral bacteria.	Mercury-resistant bacteria isolated from the oral cavities of children carried one of two types of merA gene that appear to have evolved from a common ancestor. Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus mitis and a few other species had merA genes that were very similar to merA of Bacillus cereus strain RC607. Unlike the B. cereus RC607 merA gene, however, the streptococcal merA genes were not carried on Tn5084-like transposons. Instead, comparisons with microbial genomic sequences suggest the merA gene is located on a novel type II transposon. Coagulase-negative staphylococci and Streptococcus parasanguis had identical merA genes that represent a new merA variant.
An in vitro comparative study determining bactericidal activity of stabilized chlorine dioxide and other oral rinses.	The study was conducted to determine the bactericidal activity of a stabilized chlorine dioxide oral rinse (ClōSYS Oral Rinse) compared to products currently available on the market.
Effect of lectins from Diocleinae subtribe against oral Streptococci.	Surface colonization is an essential step in biofilm development. The ability of oral pathogens to adhere to tooth surfaces is directly linked with the presence of specific molecules at the bacterial surface that can interact with enamel acquired pellicle ligands. In light of this, the aim of this study was to verify inhibitory and antibiofilm action of lectins from the Diocleinaesubtribe against Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus oralis. The inhibitory action against planctonic cells was assessed using lectins from Canavaliaensi formis (ConA), Canavalia brasiliensis (ConBr), Canavalia maritima (ConM), Canavalia gladiata (CGL) and Canavalia boliviana (ConBol). ConBol, ConBr and ConM showed inhibitory activity on S. mutans growth. All lectins, except ConA, stimulated significantly the growth of S. oralis. To evaluate the effect on biofilm formation, clarified saliva was added to 96-well, flat-bottomed polystyrene plates, followed by the addition of solutions containing 100 or 200 µg/mL of the selected lectins. ConBol, ConM and ConA inhibited the S. mutans biofilms. No effects were found on S. oralis biofilms. Structure/function analysis were carried out using bioinformatics tools. The aperture and deepness of the CRD (Carbohydrate Recognition Domain) permit us to distinguish the two groups of Canavalia lectins in accordance to their actions against S. mutans and S. oralis. The results found provide a basis for encouraging the use of plant lectins as biotechnological tools in ecological control and prevention of caries disease.
Effect of saliva viscosity on the co-aggregation between oral streptococci and Actinomyces naeslundii.	The co-aggregation of oral bacteria leads to their clearance from the oral cavity. Poor oral hygiene and high saliva viscosity are common amongst the elderly; thus, they frequently suffer from pneumonia caused by the aspiration of oral microorganisms.
Clinical and microbiologic effects of commercially available dentifrice containing aloe vera: a randomized controlled clinical trial.	Certain plants used in folk medicine serve as a source of therapeutic agents that have antimicrobial and other multipotential effects. This prospective, randomized, placebo, and positively controlled clinical trial was designed to evaluate the clinical and microbiologic effects of a commercially available dentifrice containing aloe vera on the reduction of plaque and gingival inflammation in patients with gingivitis.
Effective oral health in infective endocarditis: efficacy of high-street mouthwashes against the viridans group streptococci.	Recent UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guidelines state that there is no longer a need for oral antibiotic prophylaxis in patients undergoing dental procedures who are at risk of infective endocarditis (IE), and advocate the importance of maintaining good oral health. As viridans group streptococci (VGS) are common etiological agents of IE and inhabitants of the mouth, the purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy of common high-street mouthwashes against four classes of VGS organisms (salivarius, mitis, anginosus, and mutans groupings).
