Removal of infected pacemaker leads with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest and open surgical exploration of the superior vena cava and innominate veins.	Despite the use of transvenous methods for extraction of infected leads, failed attempts may result in retained lead fragments. Retained lead fragments may be a focus of continued infection leading to sepsis. We present two patients in which conversion from cardiopulmonary bypass to hypothermic circulatory arrest allowed direct visualization, using venotomies in the superior vena cava and innominate vein to achieve complete removal of retained pacemaker lead fragments. Use of venotomies in the extracardiac venous system is a technical addition to prior descriptions of lead extraction using deep hypothermia and circulatory arrest.
Influence of resin monomers on growth of oral streptococci.	Ethyleneglycol dimethacrylate monomers have been previously reported to stimulate the growth of certain caries-associated bacteria on the basis of turbidity measurements. To elucidate the detail of this effect, we examined the influence of resin monomers on the growth of Streptococcus sobrinus and Streptococcus sanguis by determination of bacterial numbers (colony-forming units), morphological observation, and chemical analysis. Although the absorbance values in the stationary phase of bacterial suspension were increased in the presence of ethyleneglycol monomers, no significant differences were observed for bacterial numbers throughout the incubation period. Scanning electron microscopy observation revealed the formation of sparse vesicular material surrounding bacterial cells when incubated with ethyleneglycol monomers, and these products were proved to be resin polymers. The results demonstrate that the apparent biomass increase during incubation with ethyleneglycol monomers is due not to promotion of bacterial multiplication, but to the polymerization of resin monomers to form vesicular structures attached to cells.
Effect of a separated instrument on bacterial penetration of obturated root canals.	The aim of this study was to determine the effect a separated instrument has on the time required for bacterial penetration of obturated root canals. Twenty-six extracted human mandibular premolars with single canals were used in the study. Group 1 consisted of teeth that contained a separated size 40 Profile rotary file and were obturated with gutta-percha and zinc oxide eugenol sealer to the level of the separated file. Group 2 consisted of teeth that were similarly obturated, but without a separated file. The negative control canals were obturated and had the entire root surface sealed with nail polish. The positive controls were obturated without sealer. Streptococcus sanguis was placed in the access chamber daily, and penetration was determined when turbidity was noted in the culture broth. The results showed no significant difference between the two experimental groups.
Multibacterial artificial plaque. A model for studying carious process.	A multibacterial artificial plaque was established in vitro on enamel slabs incubated in mixed culture of Streptococcus sanguis, Streptococcus mutans (serotype c), Streptococcus salivarius, Lactobacillus casei and Actinomyces viscosus. Typical structure same as natural plaque was seen under microscope. The caries-like lesion produced under the plaque was observed in enamel sections. The lesion was similar in appearance to natural ones under optic and scanning electron microscopes. The acids produced in both culture media and artificial plaque were similar in composition and type to those produced in natural plaque after sugar attack. It is suggested that this kind of plaque model may be useful in studying carious process in vitro, because it is easily controlled either by changing the composition of bacteria or by adding different kinds of nutrient in the media. Moreover, the results will be easier to explain than those produced in natural ones.
Effect of three nickel-titanium rotary file techniques on infected root dentin reduction.	This study compared the bacterial reduction of in vitro infected root canals after instrumentation by 3 nickel-titanium (NiTi) rotary files with different taper and diameter versus manual stainless steel files.
Destructive endocarditis caused by Streptococcus sanguis on normal valves after gastroduodenoscopy]	In recent years, epidemiological and clinical patterns in infective endocarditis are changed: mean age of patients, sex, underlying cardiac diseases, source of bacteremia, availability of better diagnostic methods--specially two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography--and surgical options. The Authors report a paradigmatic case of a young man without cardiac disease, who developed a destructive endocarditis complicated by refractory congestive heart failure; the cause was an organism of low pathogenicity, Streptococcus sanguis, that entered the bloodstream after gastroduodenoscopy.
Neurologic complaints in a patient with infective endocarditis.	Infectious intracranial aneurysms constitute a small subgroup of all intracranial aneurysms, but are an important cause of neurologic complaints in patients with infective endocarditis.
The antagonistic effect of the oral Streptococcus on the Saccharomyces albicans in vitro]	To investigate the antagonistic effects of three species of oral Streptococcus on the growth of oral Saccharomyces albicans in vitro.
Frequency and severity of systemic infections caused by Streptococcus mitis and sanguis II in neutropenic children]	We have retrospectively evaluated 24 sepsis episodes caused by viridans streptococci in 23 neutropenic children during a 21 months period at the Pediatric Hematology Unit of St. Louis Hospital. The underlying malignancies included acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute non lymphoblastic leukemia, aplastic anemia and solid tumor. In 17 children neutropenia, defined as a neutrophil count of less than 500 per cubic millimeter, was caused by cytotoxic chemotherapy. For 6 other children neutropenia was consequential to pretransplant treatment regimen for autologous bone marrow transplantation including cytotoxic chemotherapy and total body irradiation. All patients had a silicone rubber atrial catheter. In 9 patients sepsis was associated only with fever for less than 48 hours. In 5 other children fever was prolonged more than 72 hours in spite of specific antimicrobial therapy. No other organism was isolated. In 10 patients, however, the infectious syndrome was severe and the features included cardiac failure (7 patients), pneumonia (7 patients) resembling adult respiratory distress syndrome, encephalopathy (3 patients) without meningitis and proteinuria, 7 of these patients needed a management in a pediatric intensive care unit and 2 died in spite of adapted antibiotics. Streptococci were isolated in blood cultures in 23 children.
One and two doses of cephradine in the prophylaxis of experimental streptococcal endocarditis.	The efficacy of cephradine in the prophylaxis of rabbit Streptococcus sanguis endocarditis was investigated. Three days after cardiac catheterization and prior to challenge with S. sanguis, rabbits received either 1000 mg/kg (ten animals) or 500 mg/kg cephradine intramuscularly. Infective endocarditis was prevented in only 30% of the animals. The addition of a second dose of cephradine (100 mg/kg) 8 h after an initial dose of 400 mg/kg did not prevent streptococcal endocarditis in 80% of animals tested. In one or two dose regimens cephradine was found to be inferior to a single 400 mg/kg prophylactic dose of amoxycillin. Cephradine is not recommended for prophylaxis against streptococcal endocarditis.
Xylitol metabolism in xylitol-sensitive and xylitol-resistant strains of streptococci.	The metabolism of xylitol in xylitol-sensitive strains (strains whose growth is inhibited by xylitol) and xylitol-resistant strains (growth not inhibited) of oral streptococci was compared. Both xylitol-sensitive and xylitol-resistant strains took up xylitol. In the sensitive cells, the xylitol was probably transported via a phosphotransferase system. This resulted in intracellular accumulation of xylitol-5-phosphate and xylulose-5-phosphate. These metabolites were not detected in the xylitol-resistant strains, which probably transported xylitol via a permease system. It appeared that the resistant strains were able to utilize xylitol as carbon and energy source in the absence of other carbohydrates.
Technetium-99m stannous pyrophosphate imaging of experimental infective endocarditis.	Technetium-99m stannous pyrophosphate (99mTc-PYP) cardiac scintigraphy was performed in 15 rabbits with experimental Streptococcus sanguis aortic valve infective endocarditis. The animals were imaged five to seven days after the administration of bacteria, and in each case abnormal accumulation of the tracer was visualized in the region of the aortic valve. Three types of cardiac scintigraphic patterns were demonstrated: focal, multifocal and extensive, each correlating well with the anatomical extent of the lesion as defined by gross pathology. Tissue distribution studies demonstrated a 30 +/- 5.3 (mean +/- SEM) fold excess of radionuclide uptake in the infective endocarditis lesion compared with that of normal myocardium. Imaging of excised hearts from four animals showed an excellent correlation with in vivo imaging as well as gross pathology. Five animals with nonbacterial thrombotic aortic valve endocarditis demonstrated similar scintigraphic and tissue distribution results. In contrast, four normal animals failed to demonstrate abnormal 99mTc-PYP cardiac scintigrams or tissue uptake. This study demonstrates that 99mTc-PYP cardiac scintigraphy is a sensitive technique to detect experimental aortic valve endocarditis.
Hemolytic anemia in a patient with subacute bacterial endocarditis due to Streptococcus sanguis.	We describe a case of hemolytic anemia with subacute bacterial endocarditis due to Streptococcus sanguis. The major hematological features of the patient were a normocytic anemia with reticulocytosis, an elevation of serum lactate dehydrogenase, and a marked reduction of serum haptoglobin. All these signs of hemolytic anemia fluctuated in parallel with changes in inflammatory activity and were dramatically improved by the administration of benzylpenicillin, suggesting that the infection with S. sanguis itself was the cause of hemolytic anemia in this case.
Corrosion of intra-oral magnets in the presence and absence of biofilms of Streptococcus sanguis.	Intra-oral magnets are used in dentistry for a variety of purposes, and their susceptibility to corrosion is of great clinical importance. Although a number of in vitro models have been developed to study corrosion of intra-oral magnets, none have attempted to determine the possible contribution to corrosion made by oral bacteria, which are known to form a biofilm on intra-oral appliances. We have exposed demagnetized neodymium/iron/boron (Nd2Fe14B) magnets to an artificial saliva in the presence and absence of a biofilm of Streptococcus sanguils, one of the predominant organisms in the oral cavity. Over a 21-d period, a 3.2% decrease in the mass of the magnets was observed when S. sanguis was present, while in the absence of the organism the decrease in mass was 1.4%. We also examined the ability of poly(para-xylylene), a commonly-used coating, to protect the magnets against corrosion. No decrease in the mass of magnets coated with poly(para-xylylene) was detected over a 21-d period in the presence of S. sanguis. This study has shown that biofilms of S. sanguis cause appreciable corrosion of Nd2Fe14B magnets which is greater than that occurring in the absence of the organism, and that a coating of poly(para-xylylene) provides protection against such corrosion.
Re-replacement of Starr-Edwards mitral valve (model 6320) for prosthetic valve endocarditis 22 years after replacement]	The patient was a 43-year-old woman who had undergone mitral valve replacement with Starr-Edwards ball valve (model 6320) 22 years ago. Perivalvular mitral leakage due to prosthetic valve endocarditis and tricuspid regurgitation were found. She underwent re-replacement of the mitral valve. The operative findings revealed almost intact valvular function of the ball valve. As far as we know, 22 years is the longest follow-up for the Starr-Edwards ball valve which has maintained normal function.
Cryopreserved homografts in aortic and mitral prosthetic endocarditis: expanding the use of biological tissues in complex cardiac infections.	The case of a 27-year-old male heroin addict suffering from mitral and aortic prosthetic valve endocarditis is presented. Double valve re-replacement was performed using cryopreserved aortic homografts. Aortic root replacement with coronary re-implantation and intra-atrial valve implantation for mitral valve replacement were the techniques used. Despite the fatal outcome of this case, it clearly illustrates the possibilities of expanding the indications for combined complex replacement of heart valves by using fully biological tissue of human origin.
Aortic valvular vegetation in annuloaortic ectasia due to idiopathic cystic medial necrosis: a case report]	Annuloaortic ectasia is often accompanied by Marfan syndrome and associated with infective endocarditis usually involving the mitral valves. We treated a patient with annuloaortic ectasia due to idiopathic cystic medial necrosis who developed congestive heart failure with aortic valvular vegetation. A 56-year-old man had dyspnea on effort since the beginning of January, 1997 and was admitted to our hospital on April 6, 1997 because of orthopnea. The diagnosis was congestive heart failure due to severe aortic regurgitation with annuloaortic ectasia detected by echocardiography. Medication and rest after hospitalization relieved his symptoms but congestive heart failure deteriorated after he had a high fever. At this time, a vegetation attached to the noncoronary cusp of the aortic valve was found which had not been detected on admission. Blood culture yielded Streptococcus sanguis. The diagnosis was infective endocarditis involving the aortic valve. Surgical correction (Bentall method) improved congestive heart failure and he was discharged on August 4, 1997 without recurrence of endocarditis. Infective endocarditis involving the aortic valves is a possible cause of development or deterioration of congestive heart failure in patients with annuloaortic ectasia.
