Individuality of psycho-traumatism and psycho-traumatized people]	Clinical aspects of post-traumatic psychiatric disorders are now well-known. But it might be advisable to not extend wrongly the field of these disorders. Authors emphasize differences between life event and traumatic event, and dwell on the singularity of trauma which gathers of subjectivity. By another way they describe specific characteristics of different traumatisms, at any age. At last, they recall the risks connected to some professions, especially firemen, policemen and all rescuers.
Factors affecting burnout and compassion fatigue in psychotherapists treating torture survivors: is the therapist's attitude to working through trauma relevant?	In this study, a group of trauma therapists (N = 100) working with torture survivors was investigated with respect to the extent to which they advocated and practiced working through traumatic events as well as levels of symptomatology including compassion fatigue, burnout, and distress. Results showed that a combination of high advocacy and low degree of working through traumatic events was related to high symptomatology. Therapists with this combination showed more compassion fatigue, burnout, and distress than therapists who advocated and practiced working through traumatic events, as well as therapists who neither advocated nor practiced it. Results are discussed with respect to the pathogenic role of fear avoidance in therapists.
The Criterion A problem revisited: controversies and challenges in defining and measuring psychological trauma.	The Criterion A problem in the field of traumatic stress refers to the stressor criterion for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and involves a number of fundamental issues regarding the definition and measurement of psychological trauma. These issues first emerged with the introduction of PTSD as a diagnostic category in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition (DSM-III; American Psychiatric Association, 1980) and continue to generate considerable controversy. In this article, the authors provide an update on the Criterion A problem, with particular emphasis on the evolution of the DSM definition of the stressor criterion and the ongoing debate regarding broad versus narrow conceptualizations of traumatic events.
Comparing psychological distress, traumatic stress reactions, and experiences of unaccompanied refugee minors with experiences of adolescents accompanied by parents.	The objective of this study is to make comparisons of the severity of the psychological distress, behavioral problems and traumatic stress reactions, and experiences of unaccompanied refugee minors (URMs) with immigrant/refugee (I/R) and Dutch (native) adolescents with parental caregivers (N = 3273). Self-report questionnaires were administered. Most assessments took place at school. URMs consistently reported significantly higher scores for internalizing problems, traumatic stress reactions, and stressful life events than all other groups. Gender appears to play an important role in the native and I/R samples in reporting psychological distress, behavioral problems, and traumatic stress reactions. Older age was significantly related to higher scores only in the URM group. Natives scored higher on externalizing problems than the other groups. URMs reported to have experienced twice as many stressful life events than I/Rs and natives. URMs appear to be at significantly higher risk for the development of psychopathology than refugee adolescents living with a family member, immigrants, or Dutch adolescents.
Clinical characteristics of depressed outpatients previously overdiagnosed with bipolar disorder.	The diagnosis of bipolar disorder in depressed patients requires the ascertainment of prior episodes of mania and hypomania. Several research reports and commentaries have suggested that bipolar disorder is underrecognized and that many patients with nonbipolar major depressive disorder have, in fact, bipolar disorder. In a previous article from the Rhode Island Methods to Improve Diagnostic Assessment and Services (MIDAS) project, we reported the opposite phenomenon-that bipolar disorder is often overdiagnosed in psychiatric outpatients. An important question that has not been previously examined is whether there is a particular clinical or demographic profile associated with bipolar disorder overdiagnosis among depressed patients. Forty psychiatric outpatients with current major depressive disorder reported having been previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder, which was not confirmed when interviewed with the Structured Clinical Interview for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (SCID). Psychiatric diagnoses, clinical and demographic variables were compared in these 40 patients and 233 depressed patients who were not diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Patients were interviewed by a highly trained diagnostic rater who administered the SCID for DSM-IV Axis I disorders, the Structured Interview for DSM-IV Personality for DSM-IV Axis II disorders, and the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for clinical features of depression. The depressed patients who were overdiagnosed with bipolar disorder were diagnosed with a significantly higher number of Axis I disorders and were more likely to be diagnosed with specific phobia, posttraumatic stress disorder, and drug abuse/dependence. The patients overdiagnosed with bipolar disorder were also significantly more likely to be diagnosed with a current personality disorder and were more chronically ill with greater psychosocial impairment. Thus, the results suggest that depressed outpatients who had previously been overdiagnosed with bipolar disorder were more chronically and severely ill than depressed outpatients who had not been overdiagnosed.
Assessing posttraumatic cognitive processes: the Event Related Rumination Inventory.	Cognitive processes in the aftermath of experiencing a major life stressor play an important role in the impact of the event on the person. Intrusive thoughts about the event are likely to be associated with continued distress, while deliberate rumination, aimed at understanding and problem-solving, should be predictive of posttraumatic growth (PTG). The Event Related Rumination Inventory (ERRI), designed to measure these two styles of rumination, is described and validation information is provided. Using a college student sample screened for having experienced highly stressful life events, data were obtained (N=323) to conduct an exploratory factor analysis that supported the two factors of the ERRI. Separate confirmatory factor analyses (CFA) on two additional samples (Ns=186 and 400) supported a two-factor model. The two ERRI factors were validated by comparison with related variables and by assessing their contributions to predicting distress and PTG in two samples (Ns=198 and 202) that had been combined to conduct the second CFA. Data indicate the ERRI has solid psychometric properties, captures variance not measured by stable differences in cognitive styles, and the separate factors are related to posttraumatic distress and growth as predicted by existing models of PTG.
Secondary traumatic stress in nurses: a systematic review.	Is there a "cost of caring" for health care providers of traumatized patients?
Burnout syndrome among medical residents during the influenza A H1N1 sanitary contigency in Mexico]	To measure the degree of stress among medical residents at a Third Level Hospital in Mexico City during the sanitary contingency caused by the AH1N1 influenza virus.
Complex trauma exposure and symptoms in urban traumatized children: a preliminary test of proposed criteria for developmental trauma disorder.	Recently, a new diagnostic construct, developmental trauma disorder (DTD), was proposed to describe the effects of chronic exposure to violence in combination with disruptions in caregiving systems. This study uses archival data to field test the consensus proposed diagnostic criteria for DTD in a sample of urban children (N = 214). Children with complex trauma histories as defined in the proposed DTD Criterion A were much more likely to meet the proposed DTD symptom criteria than children who did not meet the exposure criterion. This field trial of the proposed DTD criteria suggests that the proposed construct of DTD is useful for describing the symptoms induced by ongoing traumatic stressors and disrupted caregiving and that the proposed symptom criteria can differentiate children with histories of exposure to developmental trauma from other trauma-exposed children. 
Assessing the effects of trauma in children and adolescents in practice settings.	Assessment is a critical part of understanding and addressing the needs of children and adolescents exposed to trauma. A comprehensive approach to assessment that measures a range of traumatic exposures and domains of impact and uses multiple informants and techniques over time is needed to best capture the complexity of needs and presentations of traumatized youth. This approach provides a pathway to effective treatment planning. The purpose of this article is to offer a comprehensive overview of the assessment of childhood trauma, with a focus on specific tools and techniques, and the use of assessment information in practice settings. 
