Genetic relatedness between streptomycin-producing and non-producing strains of Streptomyces griseus, studied by means of DNA-DNA hybridization.	DNA-DNA hybridization was studied in order to determine the genetic relatedness between a streptomycin-producing and a non-producing mutant of Streptomyces griseus. The latter strain of short vegetative life cycle had been developed from the streptomycin-producing strain by means of nitrogen mustard treatment. Since the two strains differ in several features, we were prompted to examine the sequence homology between their DNAs. Hybridization experiments carried out with the membrane filter method yielded 73.8% and 67.3% DNA homology values, respectively. The results indicate that there is a significant, but not very close, relatedness between the DNA sequences that corresponds to the similarities and differences observed between the phenotypes of the two strains. Further aspects of established homology are also discussed.
Development of antibiotic-overproducing strains by site-directed mutagenesis of the rpsL gene in Streptomyces lividans.	Certain rpsL (which encodes the ribosomal protein S12) mutations that confer resistance to streptomycin markedly activate the production of antibiotics in Streptomyces spp. These rpsL mutations are known to be located in the two conserved regions within the S12 protein. To understand the roles of these two regions in the activation of silent genes, we used site-directed mutagenesis to generate eight novel mutations in addition to an already known (K88E) mutation that is capable of activating antibiotic production in Streptomyces lividans. Of these mutants, two (L90K and R94G) activated antibiotic production much more than the K88E mutant. Neither the L90K nor the R94G mutation conferred an increase in the level of resistance to streptomycin and paromomycin. Our results demonstrate the efficacy of the site-directed mutagenesis technique for strain improvement.
Effect of penicillin on streptomycin production by Streptomyces griseus.	The correlation between the biosynthesis of the cell wall and the formation of streptomycin (SM) in Streptomyces griseus, influenced by a specific inhibitor of cell wall synthesis, was investigated. Penicillin, in subinhibitory concentrations (1 to 5 mug/ml), was added to cultures of S. griseus in different stages of its life cycle. The inhibitor decreased SM production, when young cultures were treated; however, there was an increase in SM formation when penicillin was added to older cultures. The explanation for these findings is discussed in detail.
Fermentation studies with Streptomyces griseus. I. Carbohydrate sources for the production of protease and streptomycin.	The effects of four carbon sources and inorganic phosphate on the production of streptomycin and protease by a strain of Streptomyces griseus were studied. Protease production was increased in fermentations with comparatively rapid consumption of carbohydrate, and streptomycin was produced under conditions of moderately slow consumption. Starch was consumed more rapidly than glucose, and, in fermentations with starch as a carbon source, good yields of protease were associated with poor yields of streptomycin. The effect of the concentration of inorganic phosphate varied with the sugar source; the rate of consumption of glucose or fructose increased with the addition of inorganic phosphate, and the utilization of starch or maltose was not affected.
Antibiotic production of hyphal fractions of Streptomyces griseus. II. Streptomycin production of different fractions obtained by density gradient centrifugation.	The streptomycin-producing activity (SPA) of hyphal fractions from washed mycelium of submerged cultures of Streptomyces griseus strain 52-1, as obtained by density gradient centrifugation, was investigated. Activity of the various fractions differed strongly in intensity. The highest SPA was evident in the unfractionated mycelium. A synergistic effect upon SPA was found in the interaction of cultures of different ages, and a 55% increase in yield was obtained by mixing the 48- and 72-hr cultures. A synergistic effect occurred in all combinations studied. By use of fractions obtained from 72-hr mycelium for inoculation, differences in streptomycin production were noted. Some inoculum fractions yielded a greater amount of streptomycin (36%) than the unfractionated mycelial inoculum.
Isolation and characterization of pock-forming plasmids for Streptomyces griseus from soil actinomycetes.	Thirty independent actinomycetes strains carrying plasmids were isolated from soil. These plasmids were purified as cccDNA by CsCl-EtBr equilibrium density-gradient centrifugation. Plasmids that induce "pocks", namely formation of circular zones of sporulation-inhibition, were selected by protoplast transformation of streptomycin-producing strain, Streptomyces griseus ATCC10137. Six pock-forming plasmids, pOA7, pOA11, pOA15, pOA23, pOA29 and pOA30, were obtained, and their cleavage maps, transformation frequencies, and copy numbers, as well as their stability, are described.
Biosynthesis of streptomycin. Purification and properties of a dTDP-L-dihydrostreptose: streptidine-6-phosphate dihydrostreptosyltransferase from Streptomyces griseus.	dTDP-L-dihydrostreptose: streptidine-6-phosphate dihydrostreptosyltransferase, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of streptomycin, has been purified from Streptomyces griseus to near homogeneity by a six-step procedure involving chromatography on streptidine-6-phosphate-Sepharose. By gel filtration the apparent Mr of the enzyme was found to be about 63 000. The subunit Mr found on sodium dodecylsulfate gels is about 35 000. The transferase is dependent on Mn2+ or Mg2+ ions. Co2+ is as effective as Mg2+. From the substrates tested only streptidine 6-phosphate was an acceptor for dihydrostreptose in the synthesis of O-alpha-L-dihydrostreptose(1 leads to 4)-streptidine 6-phosphate. No activity was found with streptidine, 2-deoxystreptamine and 4-deoxy-streptamine. The activity of the transferase in the course of fermentation runs parallel to the activity of dTDP-dihydrostreptose synthase and reaches a maximum after around 50 h of fermentation, just before appearance of streptomycin in the medium.
A screening method for autoregulators of anthracycline-producing streptomycetes.	A novel method was proposed for screening of autoregulators by anthracycline-producing strains of Streptomyces griseus. By means of a modified cosynthesis procedure, an indicator strain was detected capable of producing both leukaemomycin and aerial mycelium only in the presence of specific inducing factors (autoregulators) which were produced not only by anthracycline-yielding organisms and their mutants, but also by a streptomycin-producing strain of Streptomyces griseus as well as by its non-differentiating derivative.
Biochemical characteristics of non-streptomycin-producing mutants of Streptomyces griseus. II. Lipids and fatty acid composition of vegetative mycelia.	Five non-streptomycin-producing non-aerial-mycelium-forming mutants (Str-Amy-) of Streptomyces griseus obtained either by spontaneous degeneration or during continuous cultivation of the high-producing aerial-mycelium-forming parent strain HP (Str+Amy+) were checked with regard to the composition of mycelial lipid material. All the Str-Amy- derivatives differed from their ancestor strain HP by an increased ration of 12-methyltetradecanoic acid (aC15:0) to isopalmitic acid (iC16:0) during growth on a chemically defined medium lacking branched-chain amino acids. This finding attests alterations in the availability of precursors for the biosynthesis of methyl-branched fatty acids. The qualitative composition of phospholipids and other polar lipids in one mutant group was found to be similar to the progenitor strain but, additionally, both a yellow pigment and a neutral lipid component were produced in excess. A second type of mutant differed by its incapability to form ornithinolipids even under phosphate limitation. Changes of phospholipid composition were demonstrated in the course of fermentation. Formation of ornithinolipid was suppressed by an excess of inorganic phosphate in the medium, while the portions of phosphatidylethanolamine and cardiolipin increased strongly. Furthermore, the formation of ornithinolipids was influenced by nitrogen sources. these results suggest that the composition of membrane of S. griseus varies in dependence upon the composition of the medium and the age of the mycelium.
Regulatory enzymes for the screening of streptomycin producing mutant strains of Streptomyces griseus.	Intermediary enzymes of streptomycin biosynthesis-arginine amidinotransferase and alkaline phosphatase were located at the early fermentation stages. Their relationship with streptomycin production by Streptomyces griseus strains GX-19 and MR-20 was determined and the use of this relationship was made for the screening of streptomycin producing mutant strains.
A-factor and streptomycin biosynthesis in Streptomyces griseus.	Accumulating data have shown that the metabolites with a gamma-butyrolactone ring functions as an autoregulatory factor or a microbial hormone for the expression of various phenotypes not only in a variety of Streptomyces spp. but also in the distantly related bacteria. A-factor, as a representative of this type of autoregulators, triggers streptomycin biosynthesis and cellular differentiation in Streptomyces griseus. A model for the A-factor regulatory cascade on the basis of recent work is as follows. At an early step in the A-factor regulatory relay, the positive A-factor signal is first received by an A-factor receptor protein that is comparable in every aspect to eukaryotic hormone receptors, and then, via one or more regulatory steps, transmitted to an A-factor-responsive protein that binds to the upstream activation sequence of the strR gene, a regulatory gene in the streptomycin biosynthetic gene cluster. The StrR protein thus induced appears to activate the other streptomycin biosynthetic genes. This review summarizes the characteristics of A-factor as a microbial hormone and the A-factor regulatory relay leading to streptomycin production.
