Genetic and environmental contributions to nicotine, alcohol and cannabis dependence in male twins.	To compute the common and specific genetic and environmental contributions to nicotine dependence (ND) alcohol dependence (AD) and cannabis dependence (CD).
Single-prolonged stress induces apoptosis by activating cytochrome C/caspase-9 pathway in a rat model of post-traumatic stress disorder.	The purpose of this study was to provide a novel insight into the mechanism of how amygdala might participate in PTSD by investigating the changes of cytochrome c oxidase (COX), caspase-9, and caspase-3 in the amygdala of single-prolonged stress (SPS) rats. A total of 80 healthy, male Wistar rats were selected for this study. The models of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) were created by SPS, which is an established animal model for PTSD. The change of COX was detected by light microscope and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The expression of caspase-9 and caspase-3 in the basolateral amygdala was examined by immunofluorescence and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). SPS exposure resulted in a significant change of COX in the SPS model groups compared with the normal control group. Evaluation by enzymohistochemistry indicated translocation of COX from mitochondria to cytoplasm. The expression of both caspase-9 and caspase-3 significantly increased 1 day after SPS stimulation, then gradually increased and peaked at SPS 7d. This findings suggest changes of COX, caspase-9, and caspase-3 in the amygdala of SPS rats, which may play important roles in the pathogenesis of PTSD.
The role of genes in defining a molecular biology of PTSD.	Because environmental exposure to trauma is the sine qua non for the development of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), the recent focus on genetic studies has been noteworthy. The main catalyst for such studies is the observation from epidemiological studies that not all trauma survivors develop this disorder. Furthermore, neuroendocrine findings suggest pre-existing hormonal alterations that confer risk for PTSD. This paper presents the rationale for examining genetic factors in PTSD and trauma exposure, but suggests that studies of genotype may only present a limited picture of the molecular biology of this disorder. We describe the type of information that can be obtained from candidate gene and genomic studies that incorporate environmental factors in the design (i.e., gene - environment interaction and gene-environment correlation studies) and studies that capitalize on the idea that environment modifies gene expression, via epigenetic or other molecular mechanisms. The examination of epigenetic mechanisms in tandem with gene expression will help refine models that explain how PTSD risk, pathophysiology, and recovery is mediated by the environment. Since inherited genetic variation may also influence the extent of epigenetic or gene expression changes resulting from the environment, such studies should optimally be followed up by studies of genotype.
Corticotrophin-releasing hormone type 1 receptor gene (CRHR1) variants predict posttraumatic stress disorder onset and course in pediatric injury patients.	Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common and disabling anxiety disorder that may occur in the aftermath of exposure to potentially traumatic life events. PTSD is moderately heritable, but few specific molecular variants accounting for this heritability have been identified. Genes regulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, such as corticotrophin-releasing hormone type 1 receptor gene (CRHR1), have been implicated in traumatic-stress related phenotypes but have yet to be studied in relation to PTSD. The present study sought to examine the relation between 9 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CRHR1 gene and posttraumatic stress symptoms in a prospective study of pediatric injury patients (n=103) who were first assessed in the acute aftermath of their injury at the hospital. Results indicated that multiple SNPs were associated with acute symptoms at a univariate level, and after correction for multiple testing, rs12944712 was significantly related to acute PTSD symptoms. Longitudinal latent growth curve analyses suggest that rs12944712 is also related to both acute symptom level and trajectory of symptoms over time. The present study adds support for the role of CRHR1 in the stress response following potentially traumatic event exposure in youth. It should be noted that the sample size in this study was small, and therefore statistical power was low; following, results from this study should be considered preliminary. Although results are not definitive, the findings from this study warrant future replication studies on how variation in this gene relates to response to traumatic event exposure in youth.
Gene expression and methylation signatures of MAN2C1 are associated with PTSD.	As potential regulators of DNA accessibility and activity, epigenetic modifications offer a mechanism by which the environment can moderate the effects of genes. To date, however, there have been relatively few studies assessing epigenetic modifications associated with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Here we investigate PTSD-associated methylation differences in 33 genes previously shown to differ in whole blood-derived gene expression levels between those with vs. without the disorder. Drawing on DNA samples similarly obtained from whole blood in 100 individuals, 23 with and 77 without lifetime PTSD, we used methylation microarray data to assess whether these 33 candidate genes showed epigenetic signatures indicative of increased risk for, or resilience to, PTSD. Logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the main and interacting effects of candidate genes' methylation values and number of potentially traumatic events (PTEs), adjusting for age and other covariates. Results revealed that only one candidate gene - MAN2C1} - showed a significant methylation x PTE interaction, such that those with both higher MAN2C1 methylation and greater exposure to PTEs showed a marked increase in risk of lifetime PTSD (OR 4.35, 95% CI: 1.07, 17.77, p=0.04). These results indicate that MAN2C1 methylation levels modify cumulative traumatic burden on risk of PTSD, and suggest that both gene expression and epigenetic changes at specific loci are associated with this disorder.
Transcriptional control of monocyte gene expression in post-traumatic stress disorder.	Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) confers an increased risk for disorders with an inflammatory etiology. PTSD-related dysregulation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis and associated alterations in inflammatory activity may contribute to this increased risk. However, little is known about convergent SNS, HPA and inflammatory signaling at the level of the immune cell transcriptome in PTSD. To explore such signaling, we examined the prevalence of specific transcription factor binding motifs in the promoter regions of differentially expressed genes in monocytes from individuals with PTSD and matched controls. Participants included 49 men (24 PTSD+ and 25 trauma-exposed controls) and 18 women (10 PTSD+ and 8 controls). Men with PTSD showed up-regulation of target genes for the NF-κB/Rel family of transcription factors, which convey inflammatory signals, up-regulation of target genes for CREB/ATF transcription factors, which convey adrenergic signals from the SNS, and down-regulation of target genes for the glucocorticoid receptor, which conveys glucocorticoid signals from the HPA axis. Women with PTSD also showed significant up-regulation of target genes for NF-κB and non-significant down-regulation of target genes for GR, but significant down-regulation of target genes for CREB/ATF. Altered transcriptional control of monocyte gene expression could contribute to exaggerated inflammatory activity in PTSD.
PKCα is genetically linked to memory capacity in healthy subjects and to risk for posttraumatic stress disorder in genocide survivors.	Strong memory of a traumatic event is thought to contribute to the development and symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Therefore, a genetic predisposition to build strong memories could lead to increased risk for PTSD after a traumatic event. Here we show that genetic variability of the gene encoding PKCα (PRKCA) was associated with memory capacity--including aversive memory--in nontraumatized subjects of European descent. This finding was replicated in an independent sample of nontraumatized subjects, who additionally underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). fMRI analysis revealed PRKCA genotype-dependent brain activation differences during successful encoding of aversive information. Further, the identified genetic variant was also related to traumatic memory and to the risk for PTSD in heavily traumatized survivors of the Rwandan genocide. Our results indicate a role for PKCα in memory and suggest a genetic link between memory and the risk for PTSD.
Children's risk and resilience following a natural disaster: genetic vulnerability, posttraumatic stress, and depression.	We examined children's risk and resilience following a natural disaster, evaluating the role of stress, social support, and two genetic markers: the short allele of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR), and the met allele of the Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF).Under high levels of hurricane exposure or hurricane-related stressors, we expected children displaying the markers would report greater symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression than children without these markers. Social support was explored as an additional moderating variable.
FKBP5 genotype and structural integrity of the posterior cingulum.	Alterations in the microarchitecture of the posterior cingulum (PC), a white matter tract proximal to the hippocampus that facilitates communication between the entorhinal and cingulate cortices, have been observed in individuals with psychiatric disorders, such as depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PC decrements may be a heritable source of vulnerability for the development of affective disorders; however, genetic substrates for these white matter abnormalities have not been identified. The FKBP5 gene product modulates glucocorticoid receptor function and has been previously associated with differential hippocampal structure, function, and affect disorder risk. Thus, FKBP5 is an attractive genetic target for investigations of PC integrity. We examined associations between PC integrity, measured through diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and fractional anisotropy (FA; an index of white matter integrity), and polymorphisms in the FKBP5 SNP rs1360780 in a sample of 82 traumatized female civilians. Findings indicated that, compared with individuals without this allele, individuals who carried two 'risk' alleles for this FKBP5 SNP (T allele; previously associated with mood and anxiety disorder risk) demonstrated significantly lower FA in the left PC, even after statistically controlling for variance associated with age, trauma exposure, and PTSD symptoms. These data suggest that specific allelic variants for an FKBP5 polymorphism are associated with decrements in the left PC microarchitecture. These white matter abnormalities may be a heritable biological marker that indicates increased vulnerability for the development of psychiatric disorders, such as PTSD. 
Associations between the SS variant of 5-HTTLPR and PTSD among adults with histories of childhood emotional abuse: results from two African American independent samples.	Prior studies have found that the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) interacts with stressful life events to increase general risk for PTSD, but this association has not extended to African American samples. Further, little is known about the effects of this interaction on specific PTSD symptom clusters, despite indications that clusters may have different biological substrates. The current study examined the interaction between exposure to childhood emotional abuse and 5-HTTLPR genotype on risk for PTSD symptom severity and severity of specific PTSD symptom clusters in two African American samples.
Grandchildren of survivors: can negative effects of prolonged exposure to excessive stress be observed two generations later?	Some studies have demonstrated negative psychological repercussions on children of parents who experienced extreme, prolonged stress. To determine whether such effects might continue in the third generation, we examined the presenting complaints of patients in a child psychiatry clinic who could be reliably identified as: (i) children whose parents were native born but who had at least one grandparent who was a survivor of the Nazi persecution (Index 1, N = 58); (ii) other children who had at least one parent and one grandparent who was a survivor (Index 2, N = 11); (iii) children of other immigrant grandparents (N = 28); (iv) children with four native born grandparents (N = 30). All other grandparents and parents were native born. All families were of the same ethnic group. Index 2 children manifested more difficulties related to school performance, but the small size of the sample precludes generalization. Although the Index 1 children did not have different types of behavioural disturbances, the size of the Index (1 + 2) group (N = 69) relative to the comparison groups was 300% greater than expected on the basis of community population estimates. Implications of this finding are discussed.
