Isolation of specific RNA-binding proteins using the streptomycin-binding RNA aptamer.	Here we report a simple and cheap one-step affinity purification protocol for isolating RNAs or proteins that interact with selected functional RNAs. The streptomycin-binding aptamer, termed 'StreptoTag,' is embedded in or fused to either end of any RNA of interest. The resulting hybrid RNA can then be immobilized on a streptomycin affinity matrix. When a complex protein mixture or total cellular lysate is applied to the matrix, subsequent elution with free streptomycin allows efficient recovery of specific ribonucleoprotein or RNA-RNA complexes. The method was successfully used to purify yeast and phage RNA-binding proteins and group II intron, viral and bacterial noncoding RNA (ncRNA)-binding proteins. The selective enrichment of bacterial mRNAs that bind ncRNAs has also been demonstrated. Once the affinity matrix, the RNA construct and the protein extracts have been prepared, the experimental procedure can be performed in 1-2 h.
Determination of streptomycin residue in cucumber and Chinese cabbage by high-performance liquid chromatography with postcolumn derivatization and fluorometric detection.	A sensitive and accurate method was developed for the determination of streptomycin using HPLC followed by postcolumn derivatization and fluorometric detection. The analyte was extracted, using aqueous solution from cucumber and Chinese cabbage, by a two-step SPE procedure. The extraction, cleanup, and chromatography conditions were optimized, and the performance of the analysis method was evaluated. The conditions of chromatography were as follows: the separation was performed on a C18 column; the isocratic mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile and a mixed solution containing 10 mM sodium 1,2-naphthoquinone-4-sulfonate and 0.4 mM sodium 1-heptanesulfonate (25+75, v/v); and the flow rate was 1 mL/min. The fluorescence detector was set at an excitation wavelength of 263 nm and an emission wavelength of 435 nm. The calibration curve was linear over the range of 50-2000 ng/mL, with a correlation coefficient of 0.9995. The LOD and LOQ were 10 and 30 ng/g, respectively, in both cucumber and Chinese cabbage. The method was validated for selectivity, linearity, precision, and accuracy. The intraday and interday precision and accuracy were within 10%. The mean recoveries from spiked samples were more than 75%, with RSD lower than 10%.
Quantification of free ligand conformational preferences by NMR and their relationship to the bioactive conformation.	Accurate unbound solution 3D-structures of ligands provide unique opportunities for medicinal chemistry and, in particular, a context to understand binding thermodynamics and kinetics. Previous methods of deriving these 3D-structures have had neither the accuracy nor resolution needed for drug design and have not yet realized their potential. Here, we describe and apply a NMR methodology to the aminoglycoside streptomycin that can accurately quantify accessible 3D-space and rank the occupancy of observed conformers to a resolution that enables medicinal chemistry understanding and design. Importantly, it is based upon conventional small molecule NMR techniques and can be performed in physiologically-relevant solvents. The methodology uses multiple datasets, an order of magnitude more experimental data than previous NMR approaches and a dynamic model during refinement, is independent of computational chemistry and avoids the problem of virtual conformations. The refined set of solution 3D-shapes for streptomycin can be grouped into two major families, of which the most populated is almost identical to the 30S ribosomal subunit bioactive shape. We therefore propose that accurate unbound ligand solution conformations may, in some cases, provide a subsidiary route to bioactive shape without crystallography. This experimental technique opens up new opportunities for drug design and more so when complemented with protein co-crystal structures, SAR data and pharmacophore modeling. 
Streptomycin and dihydrostreptomycin residues in bovine milk from the Brazilian retail market.	Pasteurised bovine milk from retail markets in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, was analysed for the presence of streptomycin (STP) and dihydrostreptomycin (DHSTP) residues. An ELISA kit was used for screening and a LC-APCI-MS/MS QToF method for confirmatory analysis. Both methods were intra-laboratory validated and found suitable for screening and confirmatory testing, respectively, for STP and DHSTP residues in pasteurised bovine milk at concentration levels below the maximum residue limit (MRL) established for these substances (200 µg kg(-1) expressed as the sum of the concentrations of STP and DHSTP). No residues of STP and DHSTP at detectable levels were found in the analysed samples (n = 299).
