The cavity and pore helices in the KcsA K+ channel: electrostatic stabilization of monovalent cations.	The electrostatic influence of the central cavity and pore alpha helices in the potassium ion channel from Streptomyces lividans (KcsA K+ channel) was analyzed by solving the finite difference Poisson equation. The cavity and helices overcome the destabilizing influence of the membrane and stabilize a cation at the membrane center. The electrostatic effect of the pore helices is large compared to that described for water-soluble proteins because of the low dielectric membrane environment. The combined contributions of the ion self-energy and the helix electrostatic field give rise to selectivity for monovalent cations in the water-filled cavity. Thus, the K+ channel uses simple electrostatic principles to solve the fundamental problem of ion destabilization by the cell membrane lipid bilayer.
Structural rearrangements underlying K+-channel activation gating.	The intramembrane molecular events underlying activation gating in the Streptomyces K+ channel were investigated by site-directed spin-labeling methods and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. A comparison of the closed and open conformations of the channel revealed periodic changes in spin-label mobility and intersubunit spin-spin interaction consistent with rigid-body movements of the two transmembrane helices TM1 and TM2. These changes involve translations and counterclockwise rotations of both helices relative to the center of symmetry of the channel. The movement of TM2 increases the diameter of the permeation pathway along the point of convergence of the four subunits, thus opening the pore. Although the extracellular residues flanking the selectivity filter remained immobile during gating, small movements were detected at the C-terminal end of the pore helix, with possible implications to the gating mechanism.
Potassium and sodium binding to the outer mouth of the K+ channel.	Molecular dynamics simulations of the K+ channel from Streptomyces lividans (KcsA channel) were performed in a membrane-mimetic environment with Na+ and K+ in different initial locations. The structure of the channel remained stable and well preserved for simulations lasting up to 1.5 ns. Salt bridges between Asp80 and Arg89 of neighboring subunits, not detected in the X-ray structure, enhanced the stability of the tetrameric structure. Na+ or K+ ions located in the channel vestibule lost part of their hydration shell and diffused into the channel inner pore in less than a few hundred picoseconds. This powerful catalytic action was caused by strong electrostatic interactions with Asp80 and Glu71. The hydration state of the metal ions turned out to depend significantly on the conformational flexibility of the channel. Furthermore, Na+ entered the channel inner pore bound to more water molecules than K+. The different hydration state of the two ions may be a determinant factor in the ion selectivity of the channel.
Feglymycin, a novel inhibitor of the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus. Fermentation, isolation and structure elucidation.	The novel peptide feglymycin has been isolated from cultures of Streptomyces sp. DSM 11171 by solid phase extraction, size exclusion chromatography and repeated reversed-phase chromatography. The molecular weight was found to be 1900.90 g/mol and the molecular formula is C95H97Nl3O30. Feglymycin contains 13 amino acids of which four are 3-hydroxyphenylglycine and five are 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine residues. The structure of the linear peptide has been determined by 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. The sequence was confirmed by the observed mass spectroscopic fragmentation pattern. As well as having weak antibacterial activity, feglymycin inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in vitro.
Tetrin C, a new glycosylated polyene macrolide antibiotic produced by Streptomyces sp. GK9244.	A new antifungal 26-membered polyene macrolide, tetrin C (1), has been isolated from Streptomyces sp. GK9244. Its structure has been determined by interpretation of NMR data. Compound 1 exhibited antifungal activity against Mortierella ramannianus (MIC, 5 microg/mL).
Anionic carbohydrate-containing polymers of cell walls in two streptoverticille genospecies.	The cell walls of two streptoverticille genospecies which belong to a historically isolated group of the genus Streptomyces contain anionic polymers of different structure. Streptomyces hachijoensis VKM Ac-191T and Streptomyces cinnamoneus subsp. azacoluta VKM Ac-606T assigned to one genospecies on the basis of DNA--DNA hybridization [5] contain 37% of an identical sugar-1-phosphate polymer. The repeating disaccharide units of the polymer, 2-amino-2-deoxy-alpha-D-glucopyranosyl-(1-->6)-2-acetamido-2-deoxy-al pha-D-glucopyranose, are linked at C-1 and C-6' by phosphodiester bonds. The cell walls of Streptomyces biverticillatus VKM Ac-891T and Streptomyces baldaccii VKM Ac-821T, members of another genospecies, contain about 30% 1,3-poly(glycerol phosphate) completely substituted by 2-amino-2-deoxy-alpha-D-glucopyranosyl residues at C-2. Due to the presence of an amino sugar with a free amino group in the repeating unit, the polymers exhibit neutral properties. Polymer structures were determined by chemical methods and NMR spectroscopy. The data indicate taxonomic specificity of anionic polymers in streptoverticille cell walls.
Synthesis of griseolic acid B by pi-face-dependent radical cyclization.	[reaction: see text]. Radical cyclization of 6 affords the bicyclic vinyl ether 9 with the appropriate stereochemistry for elaboration (seven steps) to griseolic acid B (1).
Disruption of the hup gene encoding a histone-like protein HS1 and detection of HS12 of Streptomyces lividans.	When the latter half of the hup gene encoding a histone-like protein HS1 of Streptomyces lividans TK24 was replaced by the kanamycin resistance gene, the hup mutant EY1 grew slowly in liquid medium and this delay was overcome by introduction of the complete hup. EY1 sporulated normally on solid medium, with no serious defects as observed in hupAB mutants of Escherichia coli. Therefore, HS1 probably has a role in growth in the presence of liquid medium and this organism may possess another histone-like protein with functions overlapping those of HS1. We cloned the hup2 gene encoding another histone-like protein HS12, which has two motifs of prokaryotic histone-like protein and eukaryotic histone H1. The amount of HS12 increased in EY1, determined by western blotting analysis using an anti-His-tagged HS12 polyclonal antibody. We are entertaining the notion that the increased amount of HS12 partially suppressed the defects caused by the hup mutation.
Evaluation of complexation of metal-mediated DNA-binding drugs to oligonucleotides via electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.	The interactions of self-complementary oligonucleotides with a group of metal-mediated DNA-binding drugs, including chromomycin A(3), mithramycin and the novel compound UK-1, were examined via electrospray ionization quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry. Both chromomycin and mithramycin were shown to bind preferentially to GC-rich oligonucleotide duplexes in a 2:1 drug:metal ratio, while UK-1 was shown to bind in a 1:1 drug:metal stoichiometric ratio without a strong sequence preference. These trends were observed in the presence of Co(2+), Ni(2+) and Zn(2+), with the exception that chromomycin-Zn(2+) complexes were not readily observed. The binding stoichiometries as well as the sequence specificities are in agreement with literature reports for solution studies. Binding selectivities and stabilities of the complexes were also probed using electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Both of the GC-rich oligomers 5'-GCGCGC-3' and 5'-GCGCATGCGC-3' exhibited a binding preference for chromomycin over mithramycin in the presence of Co(2+) and Ni(2+). Energy-variable collisionally activated dissociation of the complexes was employed to determine the stabilities of the complexes. The relative metal-dependent binding energies were Ni(2+) > Zn(2+) > Co(2+) for UK-1-oligomer complexes and Ni(2+) > Co(2+) for both mithramycin and chromomycin complexes.
Approaches toward the total synthesis of the nine-membered thio-lactone core of griseoviridin.	Three different approaches toward the synthesis of the macrocyclic thiolactone core of griseoviridin have been studied. Intramolecular palladium-catalyzed thiol coupling and esterification (carboxylate activation) have led to the formation of unexpected rearranged products. An intermolecular palladium-catalyzed thiol/vinyl iodide coupling followed by an esterification (alcohol activation) ultimately led to the nine-membered core of griseoviridin.
Ripromycin and other polycyclic macrolactams from Streptomyces sp. Tü 6239: taxonomy, fermentation, isolation and biological properties.	Strain Tü 6239 was isolated from a soil sample collected in Brazil and determined as a new species of the genus Streptomyces. In the course of our HPLC-diode array screening program three metabolites were detected in the culture filtrate and mycelium extracts of strain Tü 6239. They were characterised as members of the macrolactam group, the new compound ripromycin (1), the previously described ikarugamycin (2) and a new derivative of it, ikarugamycin epoxide (3). They show antibiotic activities against gram-positive bacteria and cytostatic effects to various human tumor cell lines.
New cytotoxic indolic metabolites from a marine Streptomyces.	Three new cytotoxic 3,6-disubstituted indoles (1-3) were isolated from the mycelium of a strain identified as Streptomyces sp. (BL-49-58-005), which was separated from a Mexican marine invertebrate, and their structures established by analysis of NMR and mass spectral data. GI(50) values for 1 and 2 in cytotoxic bioassays against a panel of 14 different tumor cell lines were estimated at micromolar range, while compound 3 showed no activity in the same assays.
Biophysical and structural property of the putative DNA-binding protein, BldB, from Streptomyces lividans.	The bldB gene from Streptomyces lividans was cloned, and its product was overexpressed in Escherichia coli using a T7 expression system. Gel mobility shift assays showed that the BldB protein was functionally expressed in the E. coli system and may negatively regulate its own expression. The comparative analyses by mass spectrometry, Tris-Tricine sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), and analytical ultracentrifuge established that BldB is a dimeric protein with 24 kDa molecular mass, of which monomers do not covalently interact with each other. Gel filtration result implied that the protein shape would not be globular. More detailed structural investigations by CD and NMR spectroscopy confirmed that the majority of the BldB structure is not only disordered but also highly flexible. The highly reversible, but hardly cooperative, property of the thermal denaturation also supported the idea that the protein structure is not compact. However, the existence of a structural nucleus, of which the ordered conformation remains stabilized even at more than 80 degrees C, was evidenced. The overall structure and the thermal stability of BldB were sensitive to pH, suggesting a proton-induced conformation change. Altogether, the results provide the first detailed characterization on the biophysical and structural property of the putative DNA-binding protein, BldB.
Isolation, purification and partial characterization of antibacterial activities produced by a newly isolated Streptomyces sp. US24 strain.	A new actinomycete strain designated US24 producing antibacterial activities against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria was isolated from Tunisian soil. Culture characteristic studies strongly suggested that the US24 strain belonged to the genus Streptomyces. Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the 16S rRNA gene of the Streptomyces sp. US24 strain showed high similarity (98%) with the 16S rRNA gene of Streptomyces caelestis which produces two antibiotics, niddamycin and celesticetin. Study of the influence of different nutritional compounds on antibiotic biosynthesis showed that the highest antibacterial activities were obtained when starch at 1% (w/v) was used as sole carbon source in the presence of traces of mineral oligoelements. Application to the supernatant culture of the Streptomyces sp. US24 strain of various separation steps led to isolation of two pure active molecules having a retention time of 34 and 37.26 min, respectively. P(34 min) possessed antibacterial activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, whereas P(37.26 min) inhibited only Gram-positive bacteria. Partial characterization of the P(34 min) molecule using spectroscopic studies showed that this active molecule is different from the two antibiotics produced by the S. caelestis strain.
Novel caprolactones from a marine streptomycete.	Two new caprolactones, (R)-10-methyl-6-undecanolide (1) and (6R,10S)-10-methyl-6-dodecanolide (2), were identified in the lipid extract of a marine streptomycete (isolate B6007). Their structures were proposed on the basis of GC-MS experiments and proved by synthesis. The absolute configuration of the compounds was established by comparison of the natural and synthetic stereoisomers using chiral gas chromatography. These caprolactones show a moderate phytotoxicity and a promising activity against cancer cells with concomitant low general cytotoxicity.
Similar active sites in lysostaphins and D-Ala-D-Ala metallopeptidases.	Specific peptidases exist for nearly every amide linkage in peptidoglycan. In several cases, families of peptidoglycan hydrolases with different specificities turned out to be related. Here we show that lysostaphin-type peptidases and D-Ala-D-Ala metallopeptidases have similar active sites and share a core folding motif in otherwise highly divergent folds. The central Zn(2+) is tetrahedrally coordinated by two histidines, an aspartate, and a water molecule. The Zn(2+) chelating residues occur in the order histidine, aspartate, histidine in all sequences and contact the metal via the Nepsilon, the Odelta, and the Ndelta, respectively. The identity of the other active-site residues varies, but in all enzymes of known structure except for VanX, a conserved histidine is present two residues upstream of the second histidine ligand to the Zn(2+). As the same arrangement of active-site residues is also found in the N-terminal, cryptic peptidase domain of sonic hedgehog, we propose that this arrangement of active-site residues be called the "LAS" arrangement, because it is present in lysostaphin-type enzymes, D-Ala-D-Ala metallopeptidases, and in the cryptic peptidase in the N-domain of sonic hedgehog.
Growth inhibition of toxigenic fungi by a proteinaceous compound from Streptomyces sp. C/33-6.	A Streptomyces sp. strain named C/33-6, previously isolated from soil, presented a strong and specific antagonistic effect against toxigenic fungi. This action was attributed to a proteinaceous compound (molecular weight estimated to be 14 kDa) present in the supernatant of the culture of strain C/33-6, which was sensitive to proteinases (elastase, pronase E, proteinase K) and prolongated heat treatment (100 degrees C, for 20 min). This compound showed non-chitinolytic fungicidal activity.
Stability of KcsA tetramer depends on membrane lateral pressure.	The potassium channel KcsA forms an extremely stable tetramer. Despite this high stability, it has been shown that the membrane-mimicking solvent 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol (TFE) can induce tetramer dissociation [Valiyaveetil, F. I., et al. (2002) Biochemistry 41, 10771-7, and Demmers, J. A. A., et al. (2003) FEBS Lett. 541, 69-77]. Here we have studied the effect of TFE on the structure and oligomeric state of the KcsA tetramer, reconstituted in different lipid systems. It was found that TFE changes the secondary and tertiary structure of KcsA and that it can dissociate the KcsA tetramer in all systems used. The tetramer is stabilized by a lipid bilayer as compared to detergent micelles. The extent of stabilization was found to depend on the nature of the lipids: a strong stabilizing effect of the nonbilayer lipid phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was observed, but no effect of the charged phoshosphatidylglycerol (PG) as compared to phosphatidylcholine (PC) was found. To understand how lipids stabilize KcsA against TFE-induced tetramer dissociation, we also studied the effect of TFE on the bilayer organization in the various lipid systems, using (31)P and (2)H NMR. The observed lipid dependency was similar as was found for tetramer stabilization: PE increased the bilayer stability as compared to PC, while PG behaved similar to PC. Furthermore, it was found that TFE has a large effect on the acyl chain ordering. The results indicate that TFE inserts primarily in the membrane interface. We suggest that the lipid bilayer stabilizes the KcsA tetramer by the lateral pressure in the acyl chain region and that this stabilizing effect increases when a nonbilayer lipid like PE is present.
The formation of the rodlet layer of streptomycetes is the result of the interplay between rodlins and chaplins.	Streptomycetes form hydrophobic aerial hyphae that eventually septate into hydrophobic spores. Both aerial hyphae and spores possess a typical surface layer called the rodlet layer. We present here evidence that rodlet formation is conserved in the streptomycetes. The formation of the rodlet layer is the result of the interplay between rodlins and chaplins. A strain of Streptomyces coelicolor in which the rodlin genes rdlA and/or rdlB were deleted no longer formed the rodlet layer. Instead, these surfaces were decorated with fine fibrils. Deletion of all eight chaplin genes (strain DeltachpABCDEFGH) resulted in the absence of the rodlet layer as well as the fibrils at surfaces of aerial hyphae and spores. Apart from coating these surfaces, chaplins are involved in the escape of hyphae into the air, as was shown by the strong reduction in the number of aerial hyphae in the DeltachpABCDEFGH strain. The decrease in the number of aerial hyphae correlated with a lower expression of the rdl genes in the colony. Yet, expression per aerial hypha was similar to that in the wild-type strain, indicating that expression of the rdl genes is initiated after the hypha has sensed that it has grown into the air.
Total synthesis, structure revision, and absolute configuration of (+)-yatakemycin.	The total synthesis of the reported structure 2 for yatakemycin, an exceptionally potent, naturally occurring antitumor agent disclosed in 2003, and its lack of correlation with the natural product are detailed. On the basis of spectroscopic distinctions between 2 and yatakemycin, the natural product structure was reformulated as 3, now bearing a thiomethyl ester versus thioacetate in the left-hand subunit. Total synthesis of 3 provided a compound nearly identical to but still subtly distinct from the natural product. A second reformulation of the yatakemycin structure as 1, incorporating the alternatively substituted right-hand subunit as well as the initial thiomethyl ester reformulation, was confirmed by total synthesis of both (+)- and ent-(-)-1 in studies that also unambiguously established the absolute configuration of the natural product.
The total synthesis of (-)-SNF4435 C and (+)-SNF4435 D.	The size and positioning of substituents on a tetraene, along with the Woodward-Hoffmann rules, control the relative stereochemistry at the four adjacent chiral centers that are generated in the 8pi/6pi electrocyclization cascade. A biomimetic synthesis of (-)-SNF4435 C and (+)-SNF4435 D exploits these steric effects and allows confirmation of the predicted absolute stereochemistry of the natural products.
Nitric oxide synthase inhibitors and nitric oxide donors modulate the biosynthesis of thaxtomin A, a nitrated phytotoxin produced by Streptomyces spp.	Evidence for the involvement of a bacterial nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the biosynthesis of a phytotoxin is presented. Several species of Streptomyces bacteria produce secondary metabolites with unusual nitrogen groups, such as thaxtomin A (ThxA), which contains a nitroindole moiety. ThxA is a phytotoxin made by three pathogenic Streptomyces species that cause common scab of potato. All three species possess a gene homologous to the oxygenase domain of murine inducible NOS, and this gene, nos, is essential for normal levels of ThxA production. We grew Streptomyces turgidiscabies in the presence of several known NOS inhibitors and a nitric oxide (NO) scavenger to determine their effect on ThxA production. The NO scavenger (CPTIO) and four NOS inhibitors (NAME, NMMA, AG, and 7-NI) reduced ThxA production without affecting bacterial growth. A strain of S. turgidiscabies from which the nos gene had been deleted was grown in the presence of three NO donors (DEANO, SIN, and SNAP), and all three partially restored ThxA production. Our data suggest that bacterial nitric oxide synthases may, at least in part, produce NO for biosynthetic purposes, rather than for cellular signaling, as they do in mammals.
Synthesis and stereochemistry of musacins isolated from Streptomyces griseoviridis(FH-S 1832).	Musacins E (1a), B(1)(2a) and B(2)(3a) have been synthesized starting from D-erythronolactone, L-tartaric acid and (S)-malic acid. The absolute stereochemistry of musacins was unambiguously established by this synthesis.
Identification and characterization of genes from Streptomyces sp. strain K30 responsible for clear zone formation on natural rubber latex and poly(cis-1,4-isoprene) rubber degradation.	Streptomyces sp. strain K30 was isolated from soil next to a city high way in Münster (Germany) according to its ability to degrade natural and synthetic poly(cis-1,4-isoprene) rubber and to form clear zones on natural rubber latex agar plates. The clear zone forming phenotype was used to clone the responsible gene by phenotypic complementation of a clear zone negative mutant. An open reading frame (lcp) of 1,191 bp was identified, which was preceded by a putative signal sequence and restored the capability to form clear zones on natural rubber latex in the mutant. The putative translation product exhibited strong homologies (50% aa identity) to a putative secreted protein from Streptomyces coelicolor strain A3(2), another clear zone forming strain. Heterologous expression of lcp of Streptomyces sp. strain K30 in Streptomyces lividans strain TK23 enabled the latter to form clear zones on latex-overlay agar plates and to accumulate a degradation product of about 12 kDa containing aldehyde groups. Two ORFs putatively encoding a heterodimeric molybdenum hydroxylase (oxiAB) were identified downstream of lcp in Streptomyces sp. strain K30 strain which exerted a positive effect on clear zone formation and enabled the strain to oxidize the resulting aldehydes. Heterologous expression of a fragment harboring lcp plus oxiAB in S. lividans TK23 resulted in accumulation of aldehydes only in the presence of 10 mM tungstate. Determination of protein content during cultivation on poly(cis-1,4-isoprene) revealed an increase of the cellular protein, and gel permeation chromatography analysis indicated a shift of the molecular weight distribution of the rubber to lower values in the transgenic S. lividans strains and in the wild type, thus confirming utilization and degradation of rubber. Therefore, for the first time, genes responsible for clear zone formation on natural rubber latex and synthetic cis-1,4-polyisoprene degradation in Gram-positive bacteria were identified and characterized.
Streptomyces koyangensis sp. nov., a novel actinomycete that produces 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid.	A 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid-producing actinomycete, designated strain VK-A60T, was isolated from a soil sample collected from Koyang, Korea. Morphological and chemical characteristics of the strain were consistent with those of the genus Streptomyces. The cell wall of the strain contains LL-diaminopimelic acid. The predominant fatty acids are anteiso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(16 : 0) and C(16 : 0). The strain formed a distinct monophyletic line within the 16S rRNA gene sequence phylogenetic tree. Analyses of its morphological, physiological and biochemical characteristics, together with random amplified polymorphic DNA and DNA-DNA relatedness data, confirmed that strain VK-A60T represents a novel Streptomyces taxon that is distinguishable from closely related reference strains. Strain VK-A60T (=KCCM 10555T=NBRC 100598T) is proposed as the type strain of a novel species, for which the name Streptomyces koyangensis sp. nov. is proposed.
New aminocoumarin antibiotics from genetically engineered Streptomyces strains.	The aminocoumarin antibiotics novobiocin, clorobiocin and coumermycin A(1) are produced by different Streptomyces strains and are potent inhibitors of DNA gyrase. The biosynthetic gene clusters of all three antibiotics have been cloned and sequenced, and the function of most genes contained therein has been elucidated. In the last years, a number of "unnatural" aminocoumarins could be generated using the genetic information for the biosynthesis of these antibiotics. The investigated enzymes of aminocoumarin biosynthesis have less-than-perfect substrate specificity, facilitating the production of new antibiotics by various methods. Several new aminocoumarins could be produced by targeted genetic manipulation in the natural producers, but also in heterologous host Streptomyces coelicolor after expression of the respective gene cluster. Mutasynthesis experiments, i. e. generation of a cloQ-defective mutant of the clorobiocin producer and feeding of 13 different structural analogs of 3-dimethylallyl-4-hydroxybenzoic acid to this mutant, allowed the isolation of 32 new aminocoumarins. These compounds contained, instead of the genuine 3-dimethylallyl-4-hydroxybenzoyl moiety, the externally added analogs as the acyl components in their structures. Production of new aminocoumarins was also achieved by chemoenzymatic synthesis in vitro. Several biosynthetic enzymes have been heterologously expressed, purified und used for chemoenzymatic synthesis. The structures of the new aminocoumarins were elucidated by NMR and mass spectroscopy. Their inhibitory activity on gyrase in vitro as well as their antibacterial activity was determined. These results give further insight into the structure-activity relationships of aminocoumarins.
Lajollamycin, a nitro-tetraene spiro-beta-lactone-gamma-lactam antibiotic from the marine actinomycete Streptomyces nodosus.	A strain of Streptomyces nodosus (NPS007994) isolated from a marine sediment collected in Scripps Canyon, La Jolla, California, was found to produce lajollamycin (1), a nitro-tetraene spiro-beta-lactone-gamma-lactam antibiotic. The structure was established by complete analysis of spectroscopic data and comparison with known antibiotics oxazolomycin (2), 16-methyloxazolomycin (3), and triedimycin B (4). Lajollamycin (1) showed antimicrobial activity against both drug-sensitive and -resistant Gram-positive bacteria and inhibited the growth of B16-F10 tumor cells in vitro.
Additional pyrrolomycins from cultures of Streptomyces fumanus.	Along with dioxapyrrolomycin (1), four new pyrrolomycin antibiotics, namely, pyrrolomycin G (3), pyrrolomycin H (4), pyrrolomycin I (5), and pyrrolomycin J (6), were produced in cultures of Streptomyces fumanus. Apart from dioxapyrrolomycin, pyrrolomycin G and pyrrolomycin H are the only other chiral members of the pyrrolomycin family of antibiotics, and their absolute stereochemistry was deduced to be 13S. Here, we report the isolation, structure elucidation, and antimicrobial activity of these new pyrrolomycins.
Identification using versatile sampling and analytical methods of volatile compounds from Streptomyces albidoflavus grown on four humid building materials and one synthetic medium.	The Streptomyces spp. form a common group of bacteria found in the indoor air of water-damaged buildings. They are known for their capability to produce compounds, like geosmin, with low odor thresholds. In this study, two strains of Streptomyces albidoflavus were cultivated on pinewood, gypsum board, particle-board, sand and tryptone glucose extract agar (TGEA). Air samples from the cultures were collected on six different adsorbents and chemosorbents to sample a wide range of compounds such as VOCs, aldehydes, amines and lightweight organic acids. The samples were analyzed with gas chromatography, high-pressure liquid chromatography and ion chromatography. Mass spectrometry was used for identification of the compounds. Metabolites were found and identified in air samples from cultures on all materials except sand. Alcohols and ketones were the dominating compound groups produced by cultures grown on pinewood and gypsum board. Few metabolites were produced on particle-board. The culture growing on TGEA produced mainly sulfur compounds and sesquiterpenes. Ammonia, methylamine, diethylamine, ethylamine and one unidentifiable amine were also found from cultivation on TGEA. The growth medium was of crucial importance to the production of potentially irritating metabolites.
Glaciapyrroles A, B, and C, pyrrolosesquiterpenes from a Streptomyces sp. isolated from an Alaskan marine sediment.	A Streptomyces sp. (NPS008187) isolated from a marine sediment collected in Alaska was found to produce three new pyrrolosesquiterpenes, glyciapyrroles A (1), B (2), and C (3), along with the known diketopiperazines cyclo(leucyl-prolyl) (4), cyclo(isoleucyl-prolyl) (5), and cyclo(phenylalanyl-prolyl) (6). The structures of 1, 2, and 3 were established using spectroscopic methods.
10'-Desmethoxystreptonigrin, a novel analog of streptonigrin.	10'-Desmethoxystreptonigrin, a novel analog of streptonigrin produced by Streptomyces albus, was discovered in a screen for inhibitors of farnesylation of RAS p21 protein. The compound was isolated from the fermentation broth and its structure determined. It is markedly cytotoxic to several human tumor cell lines and also exhibits potent broad-spectrum antibacterial activity.
AB3217-A, a novel anti-mite substance produced by a strain of Streptomyces platensis.	AB3217-A, a novel anti-mite substance, was isolated from the fermentation broth of a streptomycete strain. The strain was isolated from a soil collected at Kita-azumi, Nagano Prefecture, Japan, and identified as Streptomyces platensis AB3217. AB3217-A was purified by Amberlite IR120B, Diaion HP-20 and CM-Sephadex C-25 column chromatographies. The molecular formula was determined as C17H23NO7 by elemental analysis, MS and 13C NMR spectroscopy. The structure of AB3217-A was determined to be (1R,3S,4S,7R,8R,11R,12S,13R)-4,12,13-trihydroxy-8-(4-methoxy phenyl)-6-aza-2,9,14-trioxatricyclo-[9.2.1.0(3,7)]tetradecane by spectroscopic analysis and X-ray crystallographic analysis. The molecule of AB3217-A has unique structure that deacetylanisomycin and beta-D-xylofuranose linked through glycosidic bond and ether bond resulting in the formation of nine-membered ring. AB3217-A showed marked activity against the two spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae.
Tandem intramolecular Michael-aldol reaction as a tool for the construction of the C-ring of hexacyclinic acid.	[reaction: see text] The tandem intramolecular Michael-aldol reaction was studied as a tool for the construction of the C-ring of hexacyclinic acid. By changing the reaction conditions it was possible to selectively obtain either the kinetic or the thermodynamic product. Retro-aldol reaction and subsequent epimerization provides four individual cyclopentane derivatives that can be incorporated as building blocks in natural product syntheses.
Fluostatins C-E, novel members of the fluostatin family produced by Streptomyces strain Acta 1383.	Three new members of the fluostatin family, fluostatins C-E, were discovered in a culture filtrate extract of strain Acta 1383 during an HPLC screening program. The producing strain belongs to the genus Streptomyces and is closely related to type strains classified in the Streptomyces lavendulae 16S rRNA subclade. Fluostatins are named by their characteristic fluorenone chromophore. Fluostatin C shows moderate activity against selected human tumor cell lines.
Kettapeptin: isolation, structure elucidation and activity of a new hexadepsipeptide antibiotic from a terrestrial Streptomyces sp.	The ethyl acetate extract of the Streptomyces sp. isolate GW99/1572 exhibited significant biological activity against Gram-positive bacteria and delivered kettapeptin (1), a new hexadepsipeptide antibiotic of the azinothricin type. The structure was elucidated by various 1D and 2D NMR techniques, mass spectrometry and by comparison of the NMR data with those of closely related antibiotics. The absolute configuration of the compound was derived by crystal structure analysis and by comparison with the optical rotation data of related compounds.
Fogacin, a novel cyclic octaketide produced by Streptomyces strain Tü 6319.	A new octaketide named fogacin (1) was isolated from Streptomyces sp. (strain Tü 6319). Furthermore two shunt metabolites, SEK4b (2) and anhydroSEK4b (3), were detected and identified as non-enzymatically cyclized products of polyketide intermediates built during the biosynthesis of actinorhodin. SEK4b (2) as well as anhydroSEK4b (3) were previously described as metabolites of genetically engineered strains.
An efficient synthesis of epoxydiynes and a key fragment of neocarzinostatin chromophore.	[reaction: see text] A key structural feature of the Neocarzinostatin chromophore is a reactive epoxydiyne. We present here a new method for the preparation of epoxydiynes by the addition of an allenyl zinc bromide to a propargylic ketone.
Small molecules: the lexicon of biodiversity.	The extent of microbial diversity in the Biosphere is not known (and probably never will be!). One aspect of this diversity is the production of biologically active small molecules; within the Streptomycetes alone this may be millions of compounds with an extraordinary diversity and complexity of structure. First recognised as pigments and later, in the 1950s, as antibiotics, it is now clear that the small molecules produced by microbes have many different functions in nature. This huge collection of biologically active compounds with various properties has been used as pharmaceuticals and agriculturals. They also interact with proteins and RNA with high specificity and have been shown to be regulators and effectors of diverse biochemical reactions. The use of small molecules (other than as pharmaceuticals) deserves to be explored in order to exploit microbial biotechnology to the full.
Structure and absolute stereochemistry of 21-hydroxyoligomycin A.	21-Hydroxyoligomycin A (1) was isolated from Streptomyces cyaneogriseus ssp. noncyanogenus (LL-F28249) and fully characterized by NMR and single-crystal X-ray diffraction methods. The complete 1H and 13C NMR chemical shift assignments for 1 were made using 2D NMR experiments, and the chirality at C-21 was deduced to be R from a J-based configuration analysis. The absolute configuration at C-21 and at the other 18 chiral centers in the molecule were independently confirmed by anomalous dispersion measurements on a crystal of the chloroform methanol solvate of 21-hydroxyoligomycin A (1).
Roles of VioG and VioQ in the incorporation and modification of the Capreomycidine residue in the peptide antibiotic viomycin.	The nonproteinogenic amino acid capreomycidine is the signature residue found in the tuberactinomycin family of antitubercular peptide antibiotics and an important element of the pharmacophore. Recombinant VioG, a single-module peptide synthetase from the viomycin gene cluster cloned from Streptomyces vinaceus (ATCC11861), specifically activates capreomycidine for incorporation into viomycin (tuberactinomycin B). Insertional disruption of the putative hydroxylase gene vioQ resulted in a mutant that accumulated tuberactinomycin O, suggesting that hydroxylation at C-5 of the capreomycidine residue is a post-assembly event. The inactivated chromosomal copy of vioQ could be complemented with a wild-type copy of the gene to restore viomycin production.
Glycopeptide antitumor antibiotic zorbamycin from Streptomyces flavoviridis ATCC 21892: strain improvement and structure elucidation.	Zorbamycin (1, ZBM) is a glycopeptide antitumor antibiotic first reported in 1971. The partial structures of 1 were speculated on the basis of its acid hydrolysis products, but the structure of the intact molecule has never been established. The low titer of 1 from the wild-type strain, combined with its acid-instability, has so far hampered its isolation. By random mutagenesis of Streptomyces flavoviridis ATCC21892, a wild-type producer of 1, with UV irradiation, two high-producing strains of 1, S. flavoviridis SB9000 and SB9001, were isolated. Under the optimized fermentation conditions, these two strains produced about 10 mg/L of 1, which was about 10-fold higher than the wild-type ATCC21892 strain, as estimated by HPLC analysis. Finally, 1 was isolated as both a 1-Cu complex and Cu-free molecule, and the intact structure of 1 was established on the basis of a combination of mass spectrometry and 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopic analyses.
Laspartomycin, an acidic lipopeptide antibiotic with a unique peptide core.	Laspartomycin was originally isolated and characterized in 1968 as a lipopeptide antibiotic related to amphomycin. The molecular weight and structure remained unknown until now. In the present study, laspartomycin was purified by a novel calcium chelate procedure, and the structure of the major component (1) was determined. The structure of laspartomycin C (1) differs from that of amphomycin and all related antibiotics as a result of its peptide region being acidic rather than amphoteric and the amino acid branching into the side chain being diaminopropionic rather than diaminobutyric. In addition, the fatty acid side chain is 2,3-unsaturated compared to 3,4-unsaturated for amphomycin and other related antibiotics. Calcium ion addition to stabilize a particular conformer was found to be important for an enzymatic deacylation of the antibiotic. A peptide resulting from the deacylation was critical for chemical structure determination by NMR studies, which also involved addition of calcium ions to stabilize a conformer.
Isolation, characterization and antifungal activity of Streptomyces sampsonii GS 1322.	For new antifungal antibiotics from actinomycetes, a strain of Streptomyces GS 1322 was isolated from a sample of garden soil. The strain was found to possess antagonistic activity against four fungi i.e., Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger, Microsporum gypseum and Trichophyton sp. The strain was identified as Streptomyces sampsonii and the antifungal compound produced by it was found to be the heptaene group of polyene antibiotics.
Novel anticancer agent, benzyldihydroxyoctenone, isolated from Streptomyces sp. causes G1 cell cycle arrest and induces apoptosis of HeLa cells.	In the course of screening for anticancer agents, a novel active compound, F3-2-5, was isolated from culture broth of Streptomyces sp., KACC91015. Its structure was identified using nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, and molecular modeling experiments, and confirmed by total synthesis. The growth of various human cancer cell lines was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by 0.06-0.48 mM F3-2-5 over 24 h. Its IC(50) values were estimated at 37 microM on HeLa, 72 microM on A549, and 190 microM on HT-29 cells. However, F3-2-5 had no antiproliferative effect on normal lymphocytes and normal fibroblasts used as controls. Moreover, it affected cell cycle regulation and caused apoptosis of the HeLa cells; chromatin condensation and DNA fragmentation were observed in cells exposed to 80 microM F3-2-5. Western blot analysis revealed that F3-2-5 inhibited phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein (pRb) and reduced expression of cyclin-dependent kinase-4 and -6, and cyclin D1 and E, while levels of p53 and p21(WAF1/CIP1) increased. Taken together, these findings show that F3-2-5 inhibits proliferation of HeLa cells by inducing G(1) phase arrest as a consequence of inhibition of pRb phosphorylation following up-regulation of p21(WAF1/CIP1) and p53. Furthermore, apoptosis in HeLa cells treated with F3-2-5 was associated with an increase in Bax and p53, leading to release of cytochrome c, activation of caspase-3, and -8, and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase.
Anionic polymers of the cell wall of Streptomyces sp. VKM An-2534]	The cell wall of Streptomyces sp. VKM An-2534, the causative agent of common scab in potato tubers, which does not synthesize thaxtomin and is phylogenetically close to phytopathogen Streptomyces setonii sp. ATCC 25497, contains two anionic carbohydrate-containing polymers. The major polymer is teichuronic acid, whose repeating unit is disaccharide --> 4)-beta-D-ManpNAc3NAcyA-(1 --> 3)-alpha-D-GalpNAc-(1-->, where Acy is a residue of acetic or L-glutamic acid. The polymer of such structure has been found in Gram-positive bacteria for the first time. The minor polymer is teichoic acid [1,5-poly(ribitol phosphate)], in which a part of the ribitol residues are glycosylated at C4 with beta-D-Glcp and, probably, with beta-D-GlcpNAc and some residues are O-acylated with Lys residues. The structures were proved by chemical and NMR spectroscopic methods. It is likely that the presence of acidic polysaccharides on the surface of the phytopathogenic streptomycete is necessary for its attachment to the host plant.
Reclassification of Streptomyces flavidofuscus as a synonym of Nocardiopsis dassonvillei subsp. dassonvillei.	During the course of quality control studies of the collection of the NITE Biological Resource Center (NBRC), phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences of actinomycetes revealed that Streptomyces flavidofuscus NBRC 15404(T) formed a cluster with Nocardiopsis dassonvillei and Nocardiopsis synnemataformans. Strain NBRC 15404(T) contained meso-diaminopimelic acid as a cell-wall diamino acid and DNA-DNA hybridization studies also showed that S. flavidofuscus NBRC 15404(T) was a close relative of N. dassonvillei subsp. dassonvillei NBRC 14626(T). Based on chemotaxonomic, phenotypic and genetic analysis of the type strain, Streptomyces flavidofuscus should be reclassified as a later heterotypic synonym of Nocardiopsis dassonvillei subsp. dassonvillei.
Isolation, structure and fatty acid synthesis inhibitory activities of platensimycin B1-B3 from Streptomyces platensis.	Platensimycins B(1)-B(3) are natural congeners of platensimycin with modest to significant changes in the benzoic acid portion of the molecule, leading to attenuation in the biological activities and thus confirming the significance of the free carboxylate for the potent activity.
Acyltransferase activities of the high-molecular-mass essential penicillin-binding proteins.	The high-molecular-mass penicillin-binding proteins (HMM-PBPs), present in the cytoplasmic membranes of all eubacteria, are involved in important physiological events such as cell elongation, septation or shape determination. Up to now it has, however, been very difficult or impossible to study the catalytic properties of the HMM-PBPs in vitro. With simple substrates, we could demonstrate that several of these proteins could catalyse the hydrolysis of some thioesters or the transfer of their acyl moiety on the amino group of a suitable acceptor nucleophile. Many of the acyl-donor substrates were hippuric acid or benzoyl-D-alanine derivatives, and their spectroscopic properties enabled a direct monitoring of the enzymic reaction. In their presence, the binding of radioactive penicillin to the PBPs was also inhibited.
An efficient synthesis of (+/-)-trichostatic Acid and analogues: a new route to (+/-)-trichostatin A.	An efficient synthesis of rac-trichostatic acid (1) and its analogues is reported starting from a commercially available aldehyde. Further manipulations of rac-1 led to rac-trichostatin A (TSA). Construction of the desired molecular architecture entails a two-component union, achieved through an in situ hydroboration followed by a Suzuki-Miyaura coupling with 2. The requisite homopropargyl alcohol was synthesized by exploiting allenylindium chemistry. This new protocol paved the way for the synthesis of analogues of trichostatic acid and hence TSA.
Total synthesis of the ammosamides.	The ammosamides A-C are chlorinated pyrrolo[4,3,2-de]quinoline metabolites isolated from the marine-derived Streptomyces strain CNR-698. The natural products, which possess a dense array of heteroatoms, were synthesized in 17-19 steps from 4-chloroisatin. That the five nitrogen atoms were introduced at the appropriate time and in a suitable oxidation state was key to the success of the total synthesis. Compared to synthetic deschloro ammosamide B, natural ammosamide B is much less susceptible to oxidative degradation.
Molecular architecture of TylM1 from Streptomyces fradiae: an N,N-dimethyltransferase involved in the production of dTDP-D-mycaminose.	d-Mycaminose is an unusual dideoxy sugar found attached to the antibiotic tylosin, a commonly used veterinarian therapeutic. It is synthesized by the Gram-positive bacterium Streptomyces fradiae as a dTDP-linked sugar. The last step in its biosynthesis involves the dimethylation of the hexose C-3' amino group by an S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) dependent enzyme referred to as TylM1. Here we report two high-resolution X-ray structures of TylM1, one in which the enzyme contains bound SAM and dTDP-phenol and the second in which the protein is complexed with S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) and dTDP-3-amino-3,6-dideoxyglucose, its natural substrate. Combined, these two structures, solved to 1.35 and 1.79 Å resolution, respectively, show the orientations of SAM and the dTDP-linked sugar substrate within the active site region. Specifically, the C-3' amino group of the hexose is in the correct position for an in-line attack at the reactive methyl group of SAM. Both Tyr 14 and Arg 241 serve to anchor the dTDP-linked sugar to the protein. To test the role of His 123 in catalysis, two site-directed mutant proteins were constructed, H123A and H123N. Both mutant proteins retained catalytic activity, albeit with reduced rates. Specifically, the k(cat)/K(m) was reduced to 1.8% and 0.37% for the H123A and H123N mutant proteins, respectively. High-resolution X-ray models showed that the observed perturbations in the kinetic constants were not due to major changes in their three-dimensional folds. Most likely the proton on the C-3' amino group is transferred to one of the water molecules lining the active site pocket as catalysis proceeds.
Reveromycins revealed: new polyketide spiroketals from Australian marine-derived and terrestrial Streptomyces spp. A case of natural products vs. artifacts.	Chemical analysis of fermentation products from two Australian Streptomyces isolates yielded all four known and twelve new examples of the rare reveromycin class of polyketide spiroketals, including hemi-succinates, hemi-fumarates and hemi-furanoates. Reveromycins were identified with the aid of HPLC-DAD-MS and HPLC-DAD-SPE-NMR methodology, and structures were assigned by detailed spectroscopic analysis. The structural and mechanistic requirements for an unprecedented hemi-succinate : ketal-succinyl equilibrium were defined and provided a basis for proposing that reveromycin 4'-methyl esters and 5,6-spiroketals were artifacts. A plausible reveromycin polyketide biosynthesis is proposed, requiring a 2-methylsuccinyl-CoA starter unit, with flexible incorporation of a C(6-8) polyketide chain extension and diacid esterification units. Structure activity relationship investigations by co-metabolites were used to assess the anticancer, antibacterial and antifungal properties of reveromycins.
Characterization of the lnmKLM genes unveiling key intermediates for β-alkylation in leinamycin biosynthesis.	Leinamycin (LNM, 1) biosynthesis is proposed to involve β-alkylation of the polyketide intermediate, catalyzed by LnmKLM. Inactivation of lnmK, lnmL, or lnmM afforded mutant strains that accumulated LNM K-1 (2), K-2 (3), K-3 (4), and isomers LNM K-1' (5), K-2' (6), and K-3' (7) whose polyketide origin was established by feeding experiments with sodium [1-(13)C]acetate. These findings confirm the indispensability of LnmKLM in 1 biosynthesis and suggest that β-alkylation proceeds on the growing polyketide intermediate while bound to the LNM polyketide synthase.
Mechanistic studies of Ser/Thr dehydration catalyzed by a member of the LanL lanthionine synthetase family.	Members of the LanL family of lanthionine synthetases consist of three catalytic domains, an N-terminal pSer/pThr lyase domain, a central Ser/Thr kinase domain, and a C-terminal lanthionine cyclase domain. The N-terminal lyase domain has sequence homology with members of the OspF family of effector proteins. In this study, the residues in the lyase domain of VenL that are conserved in the active site of OspF proteins were mutated to evaluate their importance for catalysis. In addition, residues that are fully conserved in the LanL family but not in the OspF family were mutated. Activity assays with these mutant proteins are consistent with a model in which Lys80 in VenL deprotonates the α-proton of pSer/pThr residues to initiate the elimination reaction. Lys51 is proposed to activate this proton by coordination to the carbonyl of the pSer/pThr, and His53 is believed to protonate the phosphate leaving group. These functions are very similar to the corresponding homologous residues in OspF proteins. On the other hand, recognition of the phosphate group of pSer/pThr appears to be achieved differently in VenL than in the OspF proteins. Arg156 and Lys103 are thought to interact with the phosphate group on the basis of a structural homology model.
Studies on peptidyl nucleoside antibiotics: synthesis and antifungal evaluation of pyranosyl nucleoside analogs of nikkomycin.	The Streptomyces-derived nikkomycins are a unique class of peptidyl nucleoside natural products, with potent antifungal activity against a variety of pathogenic fungi.
Isolation and structure of homotemsirolimuses A, B, and C.	Homotemsirolimuses A, B, and C (2a, 2b, 2c) were found to be minor components of a temsirolimus preparation made from rapamycin. These three temsirolimus analogues are derived from the corresponding rapamycin analogues, homorapamycins A, B, and C (1a, 1b, 1c) produced by the strain Streptomyces hygroscopicus. The structures of homotemsirolimuses A, B, and C were determined by spectroscopic methods. These compounds were tested for mTOR kinase inhibition and in two proliferation assays using LNCap prostate and MDA468 breast cancer cells. The results suggested that the mTOR inhibition and antiproliferation potencies for 2a, 2b, and 2c are comparable to those of rapamycin (1) and temsirolimus (2).
ent-Homoabyssomicins A and B, two new spirotetronate metabolites from Streptomyces sp. Ank 210.	ent-Homoabyssomicins A (1) and B (2) are new complex polycyclic spirotetronate metabolites isolated from Streptomyces sp. isolate Ank 210. The structures of 1 and 2 were elucidated by detailed spectroscopic analyses of 1D and 2D NMR data. The absolute configuration of 1 was established by subsequent single-crystal X-ray diffraction studies.
Highly substituted oxabicyclic derivatives from furan: synthesis of (±)-platensimycin.	A stereocontrolled approach to a key platensimycin intermediate was achieved from a commercially available furylcarboxylate. Key to our approach is the highly efficient formal [4 + 3] cyclocondensation of a substituted furan with tetrabromocyclopropene along with an intramolecular γ-alkylation to construct the final ring of the caged intermediate.
3-Methoxy-2-methyl-carbazole-1,4-quinone, carbazomycins D and F from Streptomyces sp. CMU-JT005.	3-Methoxy-2-methyl-carbazole-1,4-quinone (1) together with carbazomycins D (2) and F (3) were isolated from the crude extract of Streptomyces CMU-JT005, an actinomycete with nematicidal activity. 3-Methoxy-2-methyl-carbazole-1,4-quinone is reported here for the first time from nature. In this paper, we describe the isolation and structure elucidation of the compounds together with the characterization of the Streptomyces strain CMU-JT005.
Antitumor actinopyranones produced by Streptomyces albus POR-04-15-053 isolated from a marine sediment.	Four new antitumor pyranones, PM050511 (1), PM050463 (2), PM060054 (3), and PM060431 (4), were isolated from the cell extract of the marine-derived Streptomyces albus POR-04-15-053. Their structures were elucidated by a combination of spectroscopic methods, mainly 1D and 2D NMR and HRESIMS. They consist of an α-methoxy-γ-pyrone ring containing a highly substituted tetraene side chain glycosylated at C-10 in the case of 1 and 4. Compounds 1 and 4 displayed strong cytotoxicity against three human tumor cell lines with GI₅₀ values in the submicromolar range, whereas 2 showed subnanomolar activity as an inhibitor of EGFR-MAPK-AP1-mediated mitogenic signaling, causing inhibition of EGF-mediated AP1 trans-activation and EGF-mediated ERK activation and slight inhibition of EGF-mediated JNK activation. Taken together, these results suggest that members of the pyranone family of compounds could be developed as potential antitumor agents.
JBIR-56 and JBIR-57, 2(1H)-pyrazinones from a marine sponge-derived Streptomyces sp. SpD081030SC-03.	Strain SpD081030SC-03, representing a novel species of Streptomyces, was isolated from a marine sponge. Two 3,5,6-trisubstituted 2(1H)-pyrazinones, JBIR-56 (1) and JBIR-57 (2), were isolated from a culture of SpD081030SC-03. The planar structures of 1 and 2 were assigned on the basis of extensive NMR and MS analyses. In addition, analyses of the methylated derivative of 1 confirmed a 3,5,6-trisubstituted 2(1H)-pyrazinone moiety. The absolute configurations of the amino acid residues were determined by application of Marfey's method. Because 1 did not appear to comprise the normal connection of amino acid units, we confirmed its structure by the total synthesis of 1. Biosynthetically, 1 consists of a unique skeleton connected to the peptide chain at C-5 of the pyrazinone ring.
A comparison of neighbor search algorithms for large rigid molecules.	Fast determination of neighboring atoms is an essential step in molecular dynamics simulations or Monte Carlo computations, and there exists a variety of algorithms to efficiently compute neighbor lists. However, most of these algorithms are general, and not specifically designed for a given type of application. As a result, although their average performance is satisfactory, they might be inappropriate in some specific application domains. In this article, we study the case of detecting neighbors between large rigid molecules, which has applications in, e.g., rigid body molecular docking, Monte Carlo simulations of molecular self-assembly or diffusion, and rigid body molecular dynamics simulations. More precisely, we compare the traditional grid-based algorithm to a series of hierarchy-based algorithms that use bounding volumes to rapidly eliminate large groups of irrelevant pairs of atoms during the neighbor search. We compare the performance of these algorithms based on several parameters: the size of the molecules, the average distance between them, the cutoff distance, as well as the type of bounding volume used in the culling hierarchy (AABB, OBB, wrapped, or layered spheres). We demonstrate that for relatively large systems (> 100,000 atoms) the algorithm based on the hierarchy of wrapped spheres shows the best results and the traditional grid-based algorithm gives the worst timings. For small systems, however, the grid-based algorithm and the one based on the wrapped sphere hierarchy are beneficial.
Padanamides A and B, highly modified linear tetrapeptides produced in culture by a Streptomyces sp. isolated from a marine sediment.	Two highly modified linear tetrapeptides, padanamides A (1) and B (2), are produced by laboratory cultures of a Streptomyces sp. obtained from a marine sediment. Padanamide B is cytotoxic to Jurkat cells, and a chemical genomics analysis using Saccharomyces cerevisiae deletion mutants suggested that padanamide A inhibits cysteine and methionine biosynthesis or that these amino acids are involved in the yeast's response to the peptide.
Solution structure of Fe(II)-azide-bleomycin derived from NMR data: transition from Fe(II)-bleomycin to Fe(II)-azide-bleomycin as derived from NMR data and structural calculations.	The coordination cage of the metal center in Fe(II)-bleomycin has been proposed to consist of the secondary amines in β-aminoalanine, the pyrimidinylpropionamide and imidazole rings, and the amide nitrogen in β-hydroxyhistidine as equatorial ligands, and the primary amine in β-aminoalanine and either the carbamoyl group in mannose or a solvent molecule occupying the axial sites. With the aim of supporting or not supporting coordination of a water molecule to the metal center in Fe(II)-bleomycin, the solution structure of Fe(II)-azide-bleomycin has been derived from NMR data. The structural changes that occur in Fe(II)-bleomycin upon azide binding have been monitored by comparing the experimental results with those obtained from the calculated structures for both bleomycin adducts. The results of this investigation strongly support a model of Fe(II)-bleomycin with six endogenous ligands as the most likely structure held in solution by this metallobleomycin in the absence of DNA.
Characterization of new class III lantibiotics--erythreapeptin, avermipeptin and griseopeptin from Saccharopolyspora erythraea, Streptomyces avermitilis and Streptomyces griseus demonstrates stepwise N-terminal leader processing.	Lantibiotics are a large group of ribosomally synthesized peptides post-translationally modified to incorporate the amino acid lanthionine. They are classified, according to their biosynthetic pathway and bioactivity, into three major subtypes. Of Actinomycetes type III lantibiotics, only four peptides (SapB, SapT, LabA1, and LabA2) have been described and structurally characterized, although homologous gene clusters are abundant in other Actinomycetes. All these gene clusters share a similar architecture with a characteristic Ser/Ser/Cys motif in precursor peptides, which has previously been suggested to act as a precursor for lanthionine (SapB) and labionin (LabA2) rings. Mass spectrometry screening led to the discovery and characterization of three new representatives of type III lantibiotics: Avermipeptin (Avi), Erythreapeptin (Ery), and Griseopeptin (Gri) from Streptomyces avermitilis DSM 46492, Saccharopolyspora erythraea NRRL 2338, and Streptomyces griseus DSM 40236, respectively. Apart from the assignment of these peptides to their corresponding gene clusters, additional investigations on Avi, Ery and Gri peptides indicate stepwise leader processing by putative aminopeptidase-like protease(s), thus yielding mixtures of differently N-terminal-processed lantibiotic peptides. Similar peptide processing was observed for a heterologously expressed eryth biosynthetic gene cluster expressed in a Streptomyces host system. Remarkably, all isolates of the new type III lantibiotics contain both the amino acids lanthionine and labionin, thus implying dual-mode cyclase activity of the processing lyase-kinase-cyclase enzymes. These findings have implications for the structures and maturation of other type III lantibiotics from Actinomycetes.
Bahamaolides A and B, antifungal polyene polyol macrolides from the marine actinomycete Streptomyces sp.	Bahamaolides A and B (1 and 2), two new 36-membered macrocyclic lactones, were isolated from the culture of the marine actinomycete Streptomyces sp. derived from a sediment sample collected at North Cat Cay in the Bahamas. The planar structures of 1 and 2, bearing a hexaenone and nine consecutive skipped hydroxy groups, were determined by 1D and 2D NMR, mass, IR, and UV spectra. The absolute configurations of the bahamaolides were established by combined multistep chemical reactions and spectroscopic analysis. Bahamaolide A displayed significant inhibitory activity against Candida albicans isocitrate lyase and antifungal activity against various pathogenic fungi.
Jomthonic acid , a modified amino acid from a soil-derived Streptomyces.	Jomthonic acid A (1), a new modified amino acid, was isolated from the culture broth of a soil-derived actinomycete of the genus Streptomyces. The structure and absolute configuration of 1 were determined by spectroscopic analyses and chemical conversion. Jomthonic acid A (1) induced differentiation of preadipocytes into mature adipocytes at 2-50 μM.
Hijacking a hydroxyethyl unit from a central metabolic ketose into a nonribosomal peptide assembly line.	Nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) usually catalyze the biosynthesis of peptide natural products by sequential selection, activation, and condensation of amino acid precursors. It was reported that some fatty acids, α-ketoacids, and α-hydroxyacids originating from amino acid metabolism as well as polyketide-derived units can also be used by NRPS assembly lines as an alternative to amino acids. Ecteinascidin 743 (ET-743), naphthyridinomycin (NDM), and quinocarcin (QNC) are three important antitumor natural products belonging to the tetrahydroisoquinoline family. Although ET-743 has been approved as an anticancer drug, the origin of an identical two-carbon (C(2)) fragment among these three antibiotics has not been elucidated despite much effort in the biosynthetic research in the past 30 y. Here we report that two unexpected two-component transketolases (TKases), NapB/NapD in the NDM biosynthetic pathway and QncN/QncL in QNC biosynthesis, catalyze the transfer of a glycolaldehyde unit from ketose to the lipoyl group to yield the glycolicacyl lipoic acid intermediate and then transfer the C(2) unit to an acyl carrier protein (ACP) to form glycolicacyl-S-ACP as an extender unit for NRPS. Our results demonstrate a unique NRPS extender unit directly derived from ketose phosphates through (α,β-dihydroxyethyl)-thiamin diphosphate and a lipoyl group-tethered ester intermediate catalyzed by the TKase-ACP platform in the context of NDM and QNC biosynthesis, all of which also highlights the biosynthesis of ET-743. This hybrid system and precursor are distinct from the previously described universal modes involving the NRPS machinery. They exemplify an alternate strategy in hybrid NRPS biochemistry and enrich the diversity of precursors for NRPS combinatorial biosynthesis.
Isolation and characterization of α,β-unsaturated γ-lactono-hydrazides from Streptomyces sp.	Two novel α,β-unsaturated γ-lactono-hydrazides, geralcin A (2) and geralcin B (3), were isolated from Streptomyces sp. LMA-545. This unusual scaffold consists of the condensation of alkyl-hydrazide with an α,β-unsaturated γ-lactone, 3-(5-oxo-2H-furan-4-yl)propanoic acid (1), which was isolated from the same broth culture. Amberlite XAD-16 solid-phase extraction was used during the cultivation step, and the trapped compounds (1-3) were eluted from the resin with methanol. The structures were elucidated using (1)H, (13)C, and (15)N NMR spectroscopic analysis and high-resolution mass spectrometry. Geralcin B (3) was cytotoxic against MDA231 breast cancer cells with an IC(50) of 5 μM.
Microtermolides A and B from termite-associated Streptomyces sp. and structural revision of vinylamycin.	Microtermolides A (1) and B (2) were isolated from a Streptomyces sp. strain associated with fungus-growing termites. The structures of 1 and 2 were determined by 1D- and 2D-NMR spectroscopy and high-resolution mass spectrometry. Structural elucidation of 1 led to the re-examination of the structure originally proposed for vinylamycin (3). Based on a comparison of predicted and experimental (1)H and (13)C NMR chemical shifts, we propose that vinylamycin's structure be revised from 3 to 4.
Discovery of a two-component monooxygenase SnoaW/SnoaL2 involved in nogalamycin biosynthesis.	Nogalamycin is an anthracycline polyketide antibiotic that contains two deoxysugars, at positions C-1 and C-7. Previous biosynthetic studies conducted in vivo affiliated snoaL2 with an unusual C-1 hydroxylation reaction, but in vitro activity was not established. Here, we demonstrate that inactivation of either snoaL2 or snoaW resulted in accumulation of two nonhydroxylated metabolites, nogalamycinone and a novel anthracycline 3',4'-demethoxy-nogalose-nogalamycinone. The C-1 hydroxylation activity was successfully reconstructed in vitro in the presence of the two enzymes, NAD(P)H and the substrates. Based on relative reaction efficiencies, 3',4'-demethoxy-nogalose-nogalamycinone was identified as the likely natural substrate. A biosynthetic model was established where the atypical short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase SnoaW reduces the anthraquinone to a dihydroquinone using NADPH, which enables activation of oxygen and formation of a hydroperoxy intermediate. Finally, protonation of the intermediate by SnoaL2 yields the 1-hydroxylated product.
Langkolide, a 32-membered macrolactone antibiotic produced by Streptomyces sp. Acta 3062.	A new 32-membered macrolactone antibiotic, named langkolide, was isolated from the mycelium of Streptomyces sp. Acta 3062. The langkolide structure was determined by HR-MS and 1D and 2D NMR as a 32-membered macrolactone connected from an overhanging polyketide tail to a naphthoquinone unit mediated by two carbohydrate moieties. The producing strain was isolated from a rhizosphere soil of Clitorea sp. collected at Burau Bay, Langkawi, Malaysia, and was characterized by its morphological and chemotaxonomic features in addition to its 16S rRNA gene sequence. It was identified as a member of the Streptomyces galbus clade. Langkolide exhibited various bioactivities including antimicrobial and antiproliferative activities. Furthermore, langkolide inhibited human recombinant phosphodiesterase 4 with an IC(50) value of 0.48 μM.
Sesquiterpenes and an intermediate 1alpha, 6beta, 11-eudesmanetriol in the biosynthesis of geosmin from Streptomyces sp.	One new sesquiterpene was isolated from the fermentation broth of Streptomyces sp. and the structure was elucidated by spectral analysis as caryolane-1, 6beta-diol (1). An intermediate 1alpha, 6beta, 11-eudesmanetriol (2) in the biosynthesis of geosmin was also found in this strain which proved sequence for the reactions, especially bicyclization preceding dealkylation.
New capoamycin-type antibiotics and polyene acids from marine Streptomyces fradiae PTZ0025.	Capoamycin-type antibiotics (2-5) and polyene acids (6, 7) were isolated from marine Streptomyces fradiae strain PTZ0025. Their structures were established by extensive nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and high resolution electron spray ionization mass spectroscopy (HRESIMS) analyses and chemical degradation. Compounds 3, 4, 6, 7 were found to be new and named as fradimycins A (3) and B (4), and fradic acids A (6) and B (7). Compounds 3-5 showed in vitro antimicrobial activity against Staphylococcus aureus with a minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 2.0 to 6.0 μg/mL. Interestingly, Compounds 3-5 also significantly inhibited cell growth of colon cancer and glioma with IC₅₀ values ranging from 0.13 to 6.46 μM. Fradimycin B (4), the most active compound, was further determined to arrest cell cycle and induce apoptosis in tumor cells. The results indicated that fradimycin B (4) arrested the cell cycle at the G₀/G₁ phase and induced apoptosis and necrosis in colon cancer and glioma cells. Taken together, the results demonstrated that the marine natural products 3-5, particularly fradimycin B (4), possessed potent antimicrobial and antitumor activities.
Four new antibacterial xanthones from the marine-derived actinomycetes Streptomyces caelestis.	Four new polycyclic antibiotics, citreamicin θ A (1), citreamicin θ B (2), citreaglycon A (3), and dehydrocitreaglycon A (4), were isolated from marine-derived Streptomyces caelestis. The structures of these compounds were elucidated by 1D and 2D NMR spectra. All four compounds displayed antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus haemolyticus, Staphylococcus aureus, and Bacillus subtillis. Citreamicin θ A (1), citreamicin θ B (2) and citreaglycon A (3) also exhibited low MIC values of 0.25, 0.25, and 8.0 μg/mL, respectively, against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) ATCC 43300.
A new daidzein derivative from endophytic Streptomyces sp. YIM 65408.	A new daidzein derivative, 1″-O-methyl-8-hydroxymethyl-daidzein (1) was isolated from Streptomyces sp. YIM 65408 in soybean powder containing medium. The structure was elucidated on the basis of extensive 1D and 2D NMR as well as HR-ESI-MS spectroscopic analyses. The radical-scavenging activity and cytotoxicity of compound 1 were also investigated, and 1 was found to be more active than daidzein in the 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl method with IC50 at 0.60 mmol/L, but no cytotoxicity of 1 against HL-60, SMMC-7721, A-549, MCF-7 and SW480 cell lines was shown. The possible biosynthesis pathway from daidzein (2) to compound 1 was proposed.
Statistical optimization of a multivariate fermentation process for enhancing antibiotic activity of Streptomyces sp. CS392.	Antibiotic activity against various gram positive bacteria including Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus was ascertained from a soil-isolated microbial strain Streptomyces sp. CS392. The antibiotic activity of the strain was maximized by using a dual-stage, multivariate statistical optimization framework based on the response surface methodology considering a lab-scale fermentation process. Multiple nutrient constituents of the fermentation broth were jointly optimized in the first stage, while the fermentation culture conditions were optimized in the subsequent stage. Based on the empirical models derived from the dual-stage statistical optimization framework, 39.79 % of cumulative enhancement in the antibiotic activity was obtained (analytically) at the concurrent optimal settings (Optimal nutrient composition for the first stage of optimization: 29.82 glucose, 7.6 peptone, 4.678 MgCl₂ and 0.5005 g/l casamino acid; and optimal fermentation condition for the second stage of optimization: incubation period 47.55 h; incubation temperature 29.15 °C; and pH 8.36). The analytically depicted enhancement in the antibiotic activity was validated experimentally.
Actinoranone, a cytotoxic meroterpenoid of unprecedented structure from a marine adapted Streptomyces sp.	The isolation and structure elucidation of a new meroterpenoid, actinoranone (1), produced by a marine bacterium closely related to the genus Streptomyces is reported. Actinoranone is composed of an unprecedented dihydronaphthalenone polyketide linked to a bicyclic diterpenoid. The stereochemistry of 1 was defined by application of the advanced Mosher's method and by interpretation of spectroscopic data. Actinoranone (1) is significantly cytotoxic to HCT-116 human colon cancer cells with an LD50 = 2.0 μg/mL. 
The native production of the sesquiterpene isopterocarpolone by Streptomyces sp. RM-14-6.	We report the production, isolation and structure elucidation of the sesquiterpene isopterocarpolone from an Appalachian isolate Streptomyces species RM-14-6. While isopterocarpolone was previously put forth as a putative plant metabolite, this study highlights the first native bacterial production of isopterocarpolone and the first full characterisation of isopterocarpolone using 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy and HR-ESI mass spectrometry. Considering the biosynthesis of closely related metabolites (geosmin or 5-epiaristolochene), the structure of isopterocarpolone also suggests the potential participation of one or more unique enzymatic transformations. In this context, this work also sets the stage for the elucidation of potentially novel bacterial biosynthetic machinery. 
A new cyclic tetrapeptide from an endophytic Streptomyces sp. YIM67005.	One new cyclic tetrapeptide, cyclo(L-Tyr-L-Pro-L-Phe-trans-4-hydroxy-L-Pro) (1), together with two known cyclodipeptides, cyclo(L-Phe-trans-4-hydroxy-L-Pro) (2) and cyclo(L-Val-L-Tyr) (3), were isolated from the fermentation broth of Streptomyces sp. YIM67005 associated with Inula cappa DC. The planar structure of compound 1 was determined on the basis of spectroscopic techniques, while the absolute configurations of the amino acid residues were determined by the application of the advanced Marfey method. The cytotoxicity and antimicrobial activity of compound 1 were investigated.
Characteristics of α-L-arabinofuranosidase from Streptomyces sp I10-1 for production of L-arabinose from corn hull arabinoxylan.	Streptomyces sp I10-1 α-L-arabinofuranosidase efficiently produced L-arabinose from high arabinose-content corn hull arabinoxylan (ratio of arabinose to xylose, 0.6). The optimum pH at 40 °C was around 6, and the enzyme was stable from pH 5 to 11. The optimum temperature was 50 °C at pH 5, and the activity was stable at 40 °C. The enzymatic activity against corn hull arabinoxylan was 2.3 times higher than towards p-nitrophenyl-α-L-arabinofuranoside. Approximately 45% L-arabinose recovery was achieved from corn hull arabinoxylan. It was considered that L-arabinose residues not removed by the enzyme were attributable to those linked with ferulic acid. The open reading frame of the enzyme gene consisted of 1,224 bp, and the predicted peptide was 408 amino acids, which corresponded to a molecular size of 45, 248 Da. It was presumed that the smaller molecular size (31,000 Da) estimated on SDS-PAGE resulted from proteolysis by proteases. I10-1 α-L-arabinofuranosidase belongs to the Alpha-L-AF C superfamily, which is associated with glycoside hydrolase family 51, but the properties were unique.
Insights into the bioactivity of mensacarcin and epoxide formation by MsnO8.	Mensacarcin, a potential antitumour drug, is produced by Streptomyces bottropensis. The structure consists of a three-membered ring system with many oxygen atoms. Of vital importance in this context is an epoxy moiety in the side chain of mensacarcin. Our studies with different mensacarcin derivatives have demonstrated that this epoxy group is primarily responsible for the cytotoxic effect of mensacarcin. In order to obtain further information about this epoxy moiety, inactivation experiments in the gene cluster were carried out to identify the epoxy-forming enzyme. Therefore the cosmid cos2, which covers almost the complete type II polyketide synthase (PKS) gene cluster, was heterologously expressed in Streptomyces albus. This led to production of didesmethylmensacarcin, due to the fact that methyltransferase genes are missing in the cosmid. Further gene inactivation experiments on this cosmid showed that MsnO8, a luciferase-like monooxygenase, introduces the epoxy group at the end of the biosynthesis of mensacarcin. In addition, the protein MsnO8 was purified, and its crystal structure was determined to a resolution of 1.80 Å. 
Effect of stereochemistry of avermectin-like 6,6-spiroketals on biological activities and endogenous biotransformations in Streptomyces avermectinius.	Natural avermectins (AVEs) share a 6,6-spiroketal moiety with an exclusive R configuration at the C21 spirocyclic junction. Herein, we report the characterization of nine AVE-like spiroketals of two types (C21 S and R) in a mutant strain that lacks spirocyclase activity. Comparative analysis of their structures facilitated evaluation of the effect of stereochemistry on endogenous biotransformations and biological activities of the spiroketals. 
Campechic acids A and B: anti-invasive polyether polyketides from a soil-derived Streptomyces.	Campechic acids A (1) and B (2), two new polyketides, were isolated from the culture extract of Streptomyces sp., and their structures were determined by NMR and MS spectroscopic analysis. Campechic acids are polyether-polyketides functionalized by two tetrahydrofuran rings, an enolized 1,3-diketone, and multiple methyl substitutions. Absolute configuration of nine stereogenic centers in 1, except for four chiral centers in the cyclic ether moieties, was determined by the 1H NMR anisotropy method in combination with chemical degradation. Campechic acids exhibited potent inhibitory effects on tumor cell invasion with IC50 values in the nanomolar to submicromolar range.
Enantioselective synthesis of SB-203207.	Total synthesis of SB-203207 (1) was achieved, beginning with a desymmetrical C-H insertion reaction of a diazoester bearing our recently developed chiral auxiliary. Utilizing the optically active bicyclo[3.3.0]octane ring, four stereogenic centers were efficiently constructed in sequence. Finally, mild oxidation of 27 to carboxylic acid via a cyanohydrin intermediate and hydrolysis of cyanide to carboxyamide in the presence of the labile enamide group completed an efficient total synthesis of 1. 
Mollemycin A: an antimalarial and antibacterial glyco-hexadepsipeptide-polyketide from an Australian marine-derived Streptomyces sp. (CMB-M0244).	A marine-derived Streptomyces sp. (CMB-M0244) isolated from a sediment collected off South Molle Island, Queensland, produced mollemycin A (1) as a new first in class glyco-hexadepsipeptide-polyketide. The structure of 1 was assigned by detailed spectroscopic analysis, supported by chemical derivatization and degradation, and C3 Marfey's analysis. Mollemycin A (1) exhibits exceptionally potent and selective growth inhibitory activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria (IC50 10-50 nM) and drug-sensitive (3D7; IC50 7 nM) and multidrug-resistant (Dd2; IC50 9 nM) clones of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. 
Stereochemistry and conformation of skyllamycin, a non-ribosomally synthesized peptide from Streptomyces sp. Acta 2897.	Skyllamycin is a non-ribosomally synthesized cyclic depsipeptide from Streptomyces sp. Acta 2897 that inhibits PDGF-signaling. The peptide scaffold contains an N-terminal cinnamoyl moiety, a β-methylation of aspartic acid, three β-hydroxylated amino acids and one rarely occurring α-hydroxy glycine. With the exception of α-hydroxy glycine, the stereochemistry of the amino acids was assigned by comparison to synthetic reference amino acids applying chiral GC-MS and Marfey-HPLC analysis. The stereochemistry of α-hydroxy glycine, which is unstable under basic and acidic conditions, was determined by conformational analysis, employing a combination of data from NOESY-NMR spectroscopy, simulated annealing and free MD simulations. The simulation procedures were applied for both R- and S-configured α-hydroxy glycine of the skyllamycin structure and compared to the NOESY data. Both methods, simulated annealing and free MD simulations independently support S-configured α-hydroxy glycine thus enabling the assignment of all stereocenters in the structure of skyllamycin and devising the role of two-component flavin dependent monooxygenase (Sky39) as S-selective. 
Medelamine C, a new omega-hydroxy alkylamine derivative from endophytic Streptomyces sp. YIM 66142.	A new alkylamine derivative and a common fatty acid were isolated from Streptomyces sp. YIM 66142. On the basis of spectral data, including HRMS, NMR and 2D NMR, their structures were determined as medelamine C (1) and isomyristic acid (2). The omega-hydroxyl group in structure 1 is rare in a natural alkylamine. The possible biosynthetic pathway in the genus Streptomyces from isomyristic acid (2) to medelamines is proposed. Compound 1 showed no obvious cytotoxicity against HL-60, SMMC-7721, A-549, MCF-7, SW480 cell lines. The omega-hydroxyl and the acetyl at NH in compound 1 decreased its cytotoxicity in comparison with that of medelamine.
The chromosomal DNA of Streptomyces lividans 66 is linear.	Two copies of a DNA sequence similar or identical to one end of the linear plasmid SLP2 were found on the Streptomyces lividans chromosome. Restriction mapping showed that these sequences represented free ends. Electrophoretic retardation and glass-binding studies indicated that the telomeres carry covalently bound proteins. Moreover, the chromosome migrated as an 8 Mb linear DNA in pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. A similar finding with the chromosomes of six other Streptomyces species suggested that a linear chromosome may be characteristic of the genus. The S. lividans chromosome can be circularized by joining the two ends by artificial targeted recombination or by spontaneous deletions spanning both telomeres. Thus the chromosome appears to be able to exist, in viable bacteria, as a linear or a circular molecule.
Induction of aerial mycelium formation in a bld mutant of Streptomyces tendae by borrelidin--a macrolide antibiotic.	In a screening programme for substances with morphogenic effects on the nikkomycin producer strain Streptomyces tendae Tü 901 we identified a metabolite, which induced aerial mycelium formation in the bld mutant Tü 901/S 2566-EM 1. By using a HPLC UV/Vis absorbance spectral library we could confirm that this compound was identical with the macrolide antibiotic borrelidin. 100 ng borrelidin/paperdisc were sufficient to show an evident morphological effect.
A new antitumor substance, BE-18591, produced by a streptomycete. I. Fermentation, isolation, physico-chemical and biological properties.	New antitumor substance, designated BE-18591, was isolated from the culture broth of a streptomycete, strain BA18591. The active principle was extracted from mycelium by methanol and purified by silica gel chromatography. BE-18591 inhibited the growth of MKN-45 human stomach cancer cell line as well as P388 cell line. In in vivo experiments, BE-18591 inhibited the growth of Ehrlich ascites tumor.BE-18591 showed antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive and some Gram-negative bacteria.
Isolation, structure determination and biological activities of a novel antifungal antibiotic, S-632-C, closely related to glutarimide antibiotics.	A new antifungal antibiotic, S-632-C, was extracted with ethyl acetate from the culture filtrate of Streptomyces hygroscopicus S-632 and isolated through a combination of column and preparative thin-layer chromatographies on silica gel. The structure of S-632-C was determined by analysis of 1H and 13C-NMR, MS, UV and IR spectra in comparison with those of S-632-A2 (9-methylstreptimidone). The signals were assigned on the basis of 2D NMR experiments, which involved 1H-1H DQF COSY, HMQC and HMBC spectral analysis. From these results, the chemical structure of S-632-C was elucidated as 6-(3,5-dimethyl-2-oxo-4,6-octadienyl)-4-carbamoylmethyl-3,4, 5,6-tetrahydro-2- pyrone. The antibiotic exhibited exclusively weak in vitro antifungal activity against Saccharomyces spp. and similar cytotoxic activity against KB carcinoma cells, as compared with the glutarimide antibiotic S-632-A2. In addition, this antibiotic had the ability to change the morphology of ras(ts)-transformed NRK cells to that of normal cells, also a characteristic S-632-A2 and B1.
In vitro and ex vivo free radical scavenging activities of carazostatin, carbazomycin B and their derivatives.	Free radical scavenging activities of various carbazole compounds, carazostatin, carbazomycin B and their chemically modified derivatives were studied in vitro and ex vivo. Among these compounds, carazostatin, which was isolated as a free radical scavenger from the culture of Streptomyces chromofuscus, showed the most potent inhibitory activity against lipid peroxidation of rat brain homogenate in vitro. Carbazomycin B, a known antimicrobial antibiotic, also exhibited strong activity in this system. Although O-modified derivatives of carazostatin and carbazomycin B retained considerable activity, N,O-dimethyl derivatives did not suppress the peroxidation. On the other hand, the results from the ex vivo evaluation of these carbazoles in the lipid peroxidation system of mouse blood plasma showed that the original compounds as well as their O-modified derivatives had a strong inhibitory activity upon oral administration to mice. These findings suggest that these natural carbazoles and their effective derivatives can protect tissues from the peroxidative damage due to generation of free radicals.
Tetrafibricin: a nonpeptidic fibrinogen receptor inhibitor from Streptomyces neyagawaensis (I). Its GPIIb/IIIa blockage on solid phase binding assay.	Tetrafibricin is a novel nonpeptidic fibrinogen receptor inhibitor isolated from Streptomyces neyagawaensis NR0577. Its competitive and selective fibrinogen receptor blockage was demonstrated in this study. Tetrafibricin competitively inhibited (Ki = 9.9 nM) the binding of biotinylated fibrinogen to purified active glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa immobilized on plastic plate. When RGDS and tetrafibricin were added in combination, the inhibition was additive. The binding of other RGD-containing proteins, fibronectin and von Willebrand factor, to active GPIIb/IIIa were also completely inhibited by tetrafibricin. The fact that tetrafibricin did not inhibit the binding of von Willebrand factor to GPIb/IX indicates the specific blockage of tetrafibricin for GPIIb/IIIa. Fibrinogen receptor inhibition of tetrafibricin was also confirmed by its ability to inhibit 125I-fibrinogen binding to platelets stimulated with ADP. Because of its competitiveness and specificity, tetrafibricin can be used in a new structural model for the design of fibrinogen receptor inhibitors.
Tetrafibricin: a nonpeptidic fibrinogen receptor inhibitor from Streptomyces neyagawaensis. (II). Its antiplatelet activities.	Tetrafibricin; a nonpeptidic fibrinogen inhibitor from microbial origin, showed potent antiaggregation activities on human platelet aggregation induced by either ADP, thrombin or collagen (IC50s = 5.6, 7.6 and 11 microM, respectively) in platelet rich plasma. The ability to inhibit aggregation in platelets treated with chymotrypsin confirmed the GPIIb/IIIa blockage of tetrafibricin. Tetrafibricin blocked the release of serotonin induced by ADP but it did not block the release reaction induced by thrombin. When added to platelets formerly aggregated with ADP, tetrafibricin caused rapid and complete deaggregation. As for the selectivity among other Arg-Gly-Asp -dependent integrins, tetrafibricin seems to be more specific for glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa than RGDS is. This is because it had no effect on adhesion of bovine aortic endothelial cells to RGD-containing proteins. Tetrafibricin is the first nonpeptidic fibrinogen receptor inhibitor that may be valuable for the study on platelet aggregation inhibitors.
NMR characterization of guanine DNA site alkylated by kapurimycin A3, an antitumour antibiotic from Streptomyces sp.	The kapurimycin A3-guanine adduct was formed by alkylation of the antitumour antibiotic with d(CGCG)2. The site of alkylation of the guanine was confirmed by comparative NMR studies with N-7-methyl-guanine in DMSO-d6.
The location and deletion of the genes which code for SSI-like protease inhibitors in Streptomyces species.	The genes coding for the protease inhibitors, SSI and API-2c', have been analyzed by comparing DNA macrorestriction patterns of Streptomyces albogriseolus S-3253 and S. griseoincarnatus KTo-250 with those of inhibitor-deficient mutants. The mutants were found to suffer from chromosomal deletions rather than plasmid loss which resulted in the loss of the relevant genes. Hybridization experiments indicated that the ssi homologs in S. lividans and S. coelicolor A3(2) are located near the end of the linear chromosome.
MS-271, a novel inhibitor of calmodulin-activated myosin light chain kinase from Streptomyces sp.--I. Isolation, structural determination and biological properties of MS-271.	A novel cyclic peptide, MS-271, was isolated from the culture broth of an actinomycete, Streptomyces sp. M-271 as an inhibitor of smooth muscle myosin light chain kinase (MLCK). MS-271 inhibited the MLCK from chicken gizzard with an IC50 value of 8 microM. MS-271 did not inhibit cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, protein kinase C or calcium/calmodulin-dependent cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase at concentrations up to 400 microM. The primary structure of MS-271 was identical to that of siamycin I, an anti-HIV peptide isolated from a microbial source.
MS-271, a novel inhibitor of calmodulin-activated myosin light chain kinase from Streptomyces sp.--II. Solution structure of MS-271: characteristic features of the "lasso' structure.	MS-271 is a potent inhibitor of smooth muscle myosin light chain kinase (MLCK), obtained from Streptomyces sp. In the previous paper, we reported on the isolation, structural determination and biological properties of MS-271.(1) In this paper, we report on the three-dimensional structure of MS-271 determined by 1H NMR in deuterated dimethyl sulphoxide. MS-271 consists of 21 amino acid residues with a novel internal linkage between the beta-carboxyl group of Asp9 and the alpha-amino group of Cysl, and two disulfide bonds, Cys1-Cys13 and Cys7-Cys19. The internal linkage between the side chain of Asp9 and the alpha-amino group of the N-terminal residue is the same as that of the endothelin B receptor selective antagonist, RES-701-1, that we previously reported. The structural calculations involved the combined use of distance geometry and simulated annealing calculations. The results indicated that MS-271 undergoes extraordinary folding, i.e. the "tail' (Phe10-dTrp21) passes through the "ring' region (Cys1-Asp9) ("lasso' structure). This folding of MS-271 turned out to be the same as the "lasso' structure of RES-701-1. The features of this "lasso' structure are discussed on the basis of comparison between the structures of MS-271 and RES-701-1.
Lowering the pH optimum of D-xylose isomerase: the effect of mutations of the negatively charged residues.	Streptomyces rubiginosus D-xylose isomerase catalyzes the reversible isomerization of D-glucose to D-fructose. The isomerization reaction is maximized in the alkaline region of pH 8.5-8.8. The amino acid residues around two active site histidines (His-54 and His-220) and on the surface of the enzyme were mutated to improve the catalytic efficiency at neutral pH. The mutations have been made by removing the negatively charged residues based upon the sequence comparison of other D-xylose isomerases and the hypothesis proposed by Russell and Fersht (1987). The effects of these substitutions on kinetic parameter, pH dependence, and thermostability were characterized. The kcat values for D56N and E221A mutants on D-glucose are increased by 30-40% over that of the wild-type enzyme at pH 7.3 and the increased activities are maintained between pH 6 and 7.5. However, the surface mutants D65A, D81A, and D163N/E167Q only show 40-60% of the wild-type activity over the entire pH range. The pH activity profiles of the mutants are broader than that of the wild-type enzyme. The optimum pHs and the pKa values for all the mutants are lowered by 0.5-0.8 and 0.1-0.5 units, respectively. The small delta(deltaG) and high Tm values for all the mutants indicate that there is no significant change in the hydrogen bond network in the active site by mutations. These results indicate that D56N and E221A are possible candidates as good catalysts for High-Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS) production.
Whole sequence of spoIIIE-like, sporulation-inhibitory, and transfer gene (spi) in a conjugative plasmid, pSA1.1, of Streptomyces azureus and detection of spi-like gene in the actinomycete chromosome.	The nucleotide sequence of spoIIIE-like and the sporulation-inhibitory and transfer gene (spi) in a conjugative plasmid, pSA1.1, of Streptomyces azureus were examined to detect the promoter region. Using Southern blotting and a spi fragment as probe, spi-like genes were detected in chromosomes of the host and other actinomycetes. These results suggest that there is a spi- and spoIIIE-like gene in chromosomes of some actinomycetes.
Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction studies of bleomycin-binding protein from bleomycin-producing Streptomyces verticillus.	A bleomycin-binding protein (BLMA) produced by bleomycin-producing Streptomyces verticullus was crystallized in a form suitable for X-ray diffraction analysis using the vapor-diffusion method. Crystals were grown at pH 5.7, in 0.2 M NH4 actate and 0.1 M Na acetate, using 30% PEG 4000 as a precipitant. They belong to the orthorhombic system, with space group P21212, cell dimensions a = 54. 90, b = 67.94, c = 35.60 A, and one BLMA molecule in the asymmetric unit. The crystals diffract X-rays well and the diffraction intensity data was collected up to 1.5 A resolution with a merging R value of 0.054 at beamline 6B of the Photon Factory. The diffraction data set is 94% complete.
Comparative studies of suidatrestin, a specific inhibitor of trehalases.	Suidatrestin, isolated from a Streptomyces strain, was characterized as a new trehalase inhibitor. Its inhibitory potential was 7 to 50-fold higher than that of validamycin when tested against insect, fungal and mammalian trehalases. The kinetic properties of suidatrestin were studied in vitro with trehalases from flight muscle mitochondria of the fly, Protophormia terraenovae, from larval midgut of the moth, Spodoptera littoralis, and from porcine kidney, as well as with maltase from yeast. Suidatrestin was inactive on maltase but inhibited all trehalases with IC50 values of 0.08-0.1 microM; Ki values ranged from 0.02 to 0.05 microM. The very low Ki/K(m) ratios (3.9 x 10(-6) -4.9 x 10(-6)) indicated excellent in vitro inhibitory action of suidatrestin. When injected into larvae of S. littoralis, suidatrestin required high and repetitive doses which lead to reversible inhibition of larval growth only. Consecutive omission of the inhibitor even stimulated weight increase above that of controls. Significant mortality was achieved at a rather high dose only. Injection of a growth-inhibiting dose of suidatrestin did not change hemolymph osmolality as a measure of sugar concentration. The discrepancy between in vitro and in vivo potency of suidatrestin may be understood once its chemical structure is fully known.
Purification and characterization of GTP cyclohydrolase I from Streptomyces tubercidicus, a producer of tubercidin.	GTP cyclohydrolase I catalyzing the first reaction in the biosynthesis of pterin moiety of folic acid in bacteria, was purified from Streptomyces tubercidicus by at least 203-fold with a yield of 32% to apparent homogeneity, using ammonium sulfate fractionation, DEAE-cellulose, Sepharose CL-6B, and hydroxylapatite column chromatography. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 230,000 daltons by gel permeation chromatography. The purified enzyme gave a single band on sodium dodesyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and its molecular weight was apparently 58,000 daltons. These results indicate that the enzyme consists of four subunits with the same molecular weight. The K(m) and Vmax values for GTP of the purified enzyme were determined to be 80 microM and 90 nmol/min (mg protein), respectively. The optimum pH and temperature for the enzyme reaction were pH 7.5-8.5 and 40-42 degrees C, respectively. Coenzyme or metal ion was not required for the enzyme activity. The enzyme activity was inhibited by most divalent cations, while it was slightly activated by potassium ion. In case of nucleotides, CTP, GMP, GDP, and UTP inhibited enzyme activity, among which GDP exhibited the strongest inhibitory effect.
Topoisomerase I inhibitors from the Streptomyces sp. strain KM86-9B isolated from a marine sponge.	The crude extract of Streptomyces sp. strain KM86-9B, isolated from a marine sponge, displayed significant inhibition on topoisomerase I activity. Investigation of the causative components by bioactivity-directed fractionation resulted in the isolation of a series of iso- and anteiso-fatty acids.
N'-methylniphimycin, a novel minor congener of niphimycin from Streptomyces spec. 57-13.	A novel natural niphimycin analog, N'-methylniphimycin was isolated from the culture broth of the Streptomyces spec. 57-13. The chemical constitution was elucidated from the physico-chemical properties, NMR techniques and mass spectrometry to be a 36-membered macrolide related to azalomycin F5a, shurimycin B and RS-22C. N'-methylniphimycin displayed moderate activity against some yeasts and filamentous fungi.
