Minimal standards for the performance and interpretation of toxicology tests in legal proceedings.	There have been several high profile criminal and civil cases that have been litigated in recent years involving toxicologic analyses and interpretations of blood, urine, and other specimens for drugs of abuse. Disputes have erupted between prominent toxicologists and laboratory scientists as to the validity and interpretation of the data presented. The disputes centered around the fact that the procedures used in these cases had not been properly validated with analytical noise being misinterpreted as a positive result. As with any analyses, forensic tests must be conducted in a manner such that they meet the minimum standards accepted within the toxicology community. No conclusions as to presence or absence of drug, its concentration, or its physiologic effects can be made if there is a failure to meet these basic standards. Several cases are presented where these standard tenets may not have been followed.
Parallel detection and quantification using nine immunoassays in a protein microarray for drug from serum samples.	A protein microarray system for detection and quantification of nine prohibited drugs in serum is described. Chemically modified slides were chosen as the microarray substrates because of their suitable for drug-BSA printing. The developed protein microarray was able to preserve the biological function of the haptens, when immobilized on the microarray surface and demonstrated binding with their corresponding antibodies. The microarray could also be used for quantitative analysis when mouse IgG was chosen as an internal control for data processing. There was no qualitative difference between the results obtained using the protein microarray and ELISA. The protein microarray technology should be applicable to performing, simultaneously, large scale screening tests for many different analytes in serum.
Screening for illicit heroin use in patients in a heroin-assisted treatment program.	The aim of this study was to investigate the use of illicit heroin among patients in a heroin-assisted treatment program. In this program, pharmaceutical-grade heroin was administered to heroin-addicted patients. Monitoring of illicit heroin use was considered important for the evaluation of this treatment program. Acetylcodeine and codeine, common adulterants of "street" heroin, were used as markers for illicit heroin. A liquid chromatography method with tandem mass spectrometric detection (LC-MS-MS) was developed, for quantitative analysis of heroin and methadone, their metabolites, and the simultaneous detection of acetylcodeine. One-hundred patients in a heroin-assisted treatment program were screened for acetylcodeine in plasma. Furthermore, patients were interviewed about illicit heroin use, and they were tested for alcohol and cocaine use. In plasma samples of 16% of the patients, acetylcodeine was detected. Overall agreement between self-report and plasma samples was 95% (kappa: 0.81). Patients who tested positive for acetylcodeine had visited the outpatients' clinics significantly less frequently than the patients who tested negative. Alcohol and cocaine use was more common in patients who tested positive for acetylcodeine. Illicit heroin use was observed in a limited percentage of patients. Overall agreement between self-report and markers of illicit heroin use was good.
Consequence of body packing of illicit drugs.	During the last decade, increased rates of drug traffic have led the smugglers to use various methods. One of these methods of illicit drug smuggling is body packing. Smuggling by intra-abdominal concealment is called "body packing". In this research, mortality rate was investigated due to body packing in Tehran.
Agreement of umbilical cord drug and cotinine levels with maternal self-report of drug use and smoking during pregnancy.	We undertook this study to assess the agreement between fetal umbilical cord drug levels and maternal self-report.
A new mixed mode solid phase extraction strategy for opioids, cocaines, amphetamines and adulterants in human blood with hybrid liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry detection.	A rapid method has been developed to analyse morphine, codeine, 6-monoacetylmorphine, cocaine, benzoylecgonine, dihydrocodeine, cocaethylene, 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, ketamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, pseudoephedrine, lignocaine, benzylpiperazine, methamphetamine, amphetamine, methadone, phenethylamine and levamisole in human blood. Blood samples were cleaned up using mixed mode solid phase extraction using Evolute™ CX solid phase extraction cartridges and the sample aliquots were analysed by hybrid triple quadrupole linear ion trap (QTRAP) mass spectrometry with a runtime of 12.5 min. Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) as survey scan and an enhanced product ion (EPI) scan as dependent scan were performed in an information-dependent acquisition (IDA) experiment. Finally, drug identification and confirmation was carried out by library search with a developed in-house MS/MS library based on EPI spectra at a collision energy spread of 35 ± 15 in positive mode and MRM ratios. The method was validated in blood, according to the criteria defined in Commission Decision 2002/657/EC. At least two MRM transitions for each substance were monitored in addition to EPI spectra. Deuterated analogues of analytes were used as internal standards for quantitation where possible. The method proved to be simple and time efficient and was implemented as an analytical strategy for the illicit drug monitoring of opioids, cocaines, amphetamines and adulterants in forensic cases of crime offenders, abusers or victims in the Republic of Ireland.
Prevalence of alcohol and other substances of abuse among injured patients in a Norwegian emergency department.	Studies have found a high prevalence of both alcohol and other impairing psychoactive drugs in injured patient populations. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of potentially impairing psychoactive substances in all patients admitted to a hospital emergency department with injuries from accidents, assault or deliberate self harm.
Toxicological screening of basic drugs in whole blood using UPLC-TOF-MS.	Ultra performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) coupled with time-of-flight (TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) was established for toxicological screening of basic drugs in whole blood and tested on authentic samples. Whole blood samples (0.2 ml) were extracted using a Gilson apparatus equipped with Bond Elut Certify columns. Screening was performed for 175 compounds (psychotropic, cardiovascular, designer, and abused drugs). The drugs were separated in 15 min using a UPLC system (Waters ACQUITY BEH C18, 1.7 µm, 2.1 mm × 100 mm column) coupled to an LCT Premier XE (Waters) instrument. Data were processed by ChromaLynx XS using identification criteria of ± 0.2 min retention time, and ± 5 mDa mass tolerance. Whole blood was spiked with the 175 compounds in concentrations from 5-100 µg/kg to assess approximately the lowest concentrations that could be identified. This method was further applied to 119 samples from forensic investigations, leading to 302 hits, of which 291 (96%) were subsequently verified, in concentrations exceeding the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ), by a liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS confirmation method. In conclusion, this UPLC-TOF-MS method is a useful and effective screening method for basic drugs in whole blood.
Three fatal intoxications due to methylone.	We present three fatal intoxications of methylone, a cathinone derivative. Blood was analyzed with a routine alkaline liquid-liquid extraction and analyzed by gas chromatography coupled with a mass spectrometer (GC-MS). Methylone was identified by a full scan mass spectral comparison to an analytical standard of methylone. For a definitive and conclusive confirmation and quantitation, methylone was also derivatized with heptafluorobutyric anhydride and analyzed by GC-MS. In all three fatalities, the deceased exhibited seizure-like activity and elevated body temperatures (103.9, 105.9 and 107°F) before death. Two of the three cases also exhibited metabolic acidosis. One of the three cases had prolonged treatment and hospitalization before death with symptoms similar to sympathomimetic toxicity, including metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation. The laboratory results for this patient over the 24 h period of hospitalization were significant for increased lactate, liver transaminases, creatinine, myoglobin, creatine kinase and clotting times, and decreased pH, glucose and calcium. Peripheral blood methylone concentrations in the three fatal cases were 0.84, 3.3 and 0.56 mg/L. In conlusion, peripheral blood methylone concentrations in excess of 0.5 mg/L may result in death due to its toxic properties, which can include elevated body temperature and other sympathomimetic-like symptoms.
Detection and quantification of new designer drugs in human blood: Part 2 - Designer cathinones.	In recent years, derivatives of cathinone, a naturally occurring beta-keto phenylethylamine, have entered the illicit drug market. These compounds have been marketed over the internet or in so-called head shops as "legal highs" and have gained popularity among drug users. Numerous fatalities due to the abuse of these drugs in recent years have increased the need for their detection in human blood samples. For detection and determination of 25 designer cathinones and their related ephedrines in blood samples, a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) method was developed using only 100 µL of blood. The blood was extracted using liquid-liquid extraction with 1 mL of 1-chlorobutane containing 10% of isopropanol. The final extract was analyzed using a Shimadzu 8030 LC-MS-MS system operated in electrospray positive ionization multiple reaction monitoring mode. The method has been validated according to international guidelines and was found to be selective for all tested compounds. Calibration for all 25 studied analytes was satisfactory from 10-1,000 ng/mL. Accuracy data were within the acceptance interval of ±15% [±20% at the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ)] of the nominal values for all drugs. Within-day (repeatability) and intermediate precision data were within the required limits of 15% relative standard deviation (RSD) (20% RSD at LLOQ).
Detection and quantification of new designer drugs in human blood: Part 1 - Synthetic cannabinoids.	Synthetic cannabinoids sprayed on herbal mixtures have been abused as a new designer drug all over the world since 2004. In 2008, the first compounds, CP 47,497 and JWH-018, were identified as active ingredients in these mixtures. Most of the compounds have been synthesized for research purposes and are potent CB1 and/or CB2 receptor agonists. To investigate the presence of synthetic cannabinoids in blood samples, a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) method was developed using only 100 µL of blood. After the addition of 0.2 mL of trizma buffer, the blood was extracted using liquid-liquid extraction with 1 mL of 1-chlorobutane containing 10% of isopropanol for 5 min on a shaker at 1,500 rpm. After centrifugation at 12,000 rpm for 1 min, the separated solvent layer was transferred to an autosampler vial and evaporated to dryness under N₂. The residue was reconstituted in methanol and injected into a Shimadzu 8030 LC-MS-MS system to separate and detect 25 synthetic cannabinoids. The method has been validated according to international guidelines and was found to be selective for all tested compounds. Calibration was satisfactory from 0.5-100 ng/mL, and from 5.0-500 ng/mL. for HU-210, CP 47,497 and the CP 47,497 C-8 homolog, respectively. The extraction efficiencies ranged from 30-101% and the matrix effects from 67-112%. Accuracy data were within the acceptance interval of ±15% (±20% at the lower limit of quantification) of the nominal values for all drugs.
Identification of novel psychoactive drug use in Sweden based on laboratory analysis--initial experiences from the STRIDA project.	The study aimed to collect information concerning the increasing use of new psychoactive substances, commonly sold through online shops as 'Internet drugs' or 'legal highs', or in terms of masked products such as 'bath salts' and 'plant food'.
Simultaneous determination of 12 illicit drugs in whole blood and urine by solid phase extraction and UPLC-MS/MS.	A rapid and sensitive method based on solid phase extraction and ultra performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-ESI-MS/MS) for the simultaneous determination of amphetamine, methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, 3,4-methylene-dioxymethamphetamine, N-methyl-1-(3,4-methyl-enedioxyphenyl)-2-butanamine, 3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine, p-methoxymethamphetamine, ephedrine, N-methylephedrine, cathinone, methcathinone, and ketamine in whole blood and urine was developed and validated. Following solid phase extraction, the analytes were separated on ACQUITY UPLC BEH Phenyl column (100mm×2.1mm, 1.7μm) under gradient elution using a mobile phase containing of acetonitrile and 0.3% formic acid in water at a flow rate of 0.4mLmin(-1) and analyzed by a triplequadrupole mass spectrometer in the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The proposed method was linear for each analyte with correlation coefficients over 0.99. Recovery validation studies showed accuracy bias below 4.4%. Acceptable precision was also obtained with a relative standard deviation below 8.9%. The sensitivity of the assay was found to be adequate for the quantitation of the illicit drugs in whole blood and urine sample and was higher than reported methods. The present method was proved to be reliable and robust for drug screening in forensic toxicological analysis. 
Lethal intoxications with morphine in Sweden 1966-1974.	Fatal intoxications with morphine derivatives have become increasingly common in Sweden. Toxicologic data and pathologic findings in 34 cases of morphine intoxications from 1966 to 1974 in Sweden are presented. From 1972 on when morphine the black market, lethal intoxications with centrally stimulation amines.
Validation of an automated microplate enzyme immunoassay for screening of postmortem blood for drugs of abuse.	The objective of this study was to compare the sensitivity and specificity of an enzyme immunoassay employing antibodies bound to a microtiter plate (MPEIA) with those of two radioimmunoassays for screening postmortem blood from selected coroner's cases for drugs of abuse. The radioimmunoassays were a coated-tube radioimmunoassay (CTRIA) and a double antibody radioimmunoassay (DARIA). Specimens consisted of 260 postmortem blood specimens from coroner's cases. Immunoassay results (positive or negative) were compared with confirmed results on those cases by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, alone or in combination with gas-liquid chromatography using either a nitrogen-phosphorus or flame-ionization detector. Sensitivity was calculated as the true-positive rate using chromatographic confirmation as the reference standard. Specificity was calculated as the true-negative rate. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated for 5-7 potential cutoff concentrations for the drug classes opiates, amphetamines, cocaine and metabolites, and barbiturates. For opiates, the sensitivity and specificity were 99% and 93%, respectively, for the MPEIA at a cutoff of 20-ng/mL morphine, compared with 94% and 96% for the CTRIA at a cutoff of 5-ng/mL morphine and > 99% and 96% for the DARIA at 20-ng/mL morphine. For cocaine and metabolites, the sensitivity and specificity were 96% and 93%, respectively, for the MPEIA at 50-ng/mL benzoylecgonine, compared with 93% and 96% for CTRIA at 50-ng/mL benzoylecgonine and 98% and 97% for the DARIA at 50-ng/mL benzoylecgonine. For amphetamines, the sensitivity and specificity were >99% and 91%, respectively, for the MPEIA at 25-ng/mL methamphetamine, compared with 93% and 86% for the CTRIA at 25-ng/mL methamphetamine and 83% and 89% for the DARIA at 50-ng/mL methamphetamine. For barbiturates, the sensitivity and specificity were > 99% and 92%, respectively, for the MPEIA at 50-ng/mL secobarbital, compared with 91% and 87% for the CTRIA at 500-ng/mL secobarbital and 79% and 95% for the DARIA at a cutoff of 1000-ng/mL phenobarbital.
