Neogenesis vs. apoptosis As main components of pancreatic beta cell ass changes in glucose-infused normal and mildly diabetic adult rats.	We have investigated in adult rats made mildly diabetic by a low dose of streptozotocin (35 mg/kg; STZ rats) and in nondiabetic rats (ND rats) the mechanisms leading to adaptive changes in the beta cell mass, during glucose infusion and several days after stopping infusion. As early as 24 h of glucose infusion, the beta cell mass was maximally increased in ND and STZ rats. In both groups, this increase was due mainly to a rapid activation of neogenesis of new endocrine cells rather than to an increase in beta cell proliferation. Seven days after stopping glucose infusion, the beta cell mass returned to basal values in both groups as a result of stimulation of beta cell apoptosis and a decrease in beta cell replication rate. In glucose-infused ND rats, changes in the beta cell mass were correlated to insulin secretion, whereas in STZ rats, insulin secretion in response to glucose was still impaired whatever the beta cell mass. In conclusion, the data stress the impressive plasticity of the endocrine pancreas of adult rats. They also show that changes in beta cell mass in ND and STZ rats resulted from a disruption in the balance between neogenesis and apoptosis.
Effect of palmitate on carbohydrate utilization and Na/K-ATPase activity in aortic vascular smooth muscle from diabetic rats.	Several investigators have reported that carbohydrate metabolism is suppressed in blood vessels from diabetic (Db) rats. However, it is not known if metabolites from the reciprocal increase in oxidation of long-chain fatty acids that accompanies insulin-deficiency exacerbates the suppression of this pathway in the Db blood vessels. Such inhibition may have particularly deleterious consequences in vascular smooth muscle since aerobic glycolysis is believed to preferentially fuel the sarcolemmal Na/K ATPase in this tissue. Therefore, this study evaluated the effect of physiological (0.4 mM) and elevated (1.2 mM) concentrations of the long-chain fatty acid palmitate on both carbohydrate utilization and Na/K-ATPase activity in aorta from insulin-deficient Db rat. Thoracic aorta were removed from 10 week Db (streptozotocin 60 mg/Kg , i.v.) or control (C) rats and intima-media aortic preparations were incubated in the absence or presence of palmitate. Glycolysis (microM/g dry wt/h) and glucose oxidation (microM/g dry wt/h) were quantified using 3H-glucose and 14C-glucose, respectively. Na/K-ATPase activity was estimated by the measurement of 86rubidium uptake in the absence and presence of 2 mM ouabain. In the absence of exogenous palmitate, glycolysis (p < 0.05), glucose oxidation (p < 0.01) and the estimated ATP production from exogenous glucose were decreased in aorta from Db rat. However, despite this diminished rate of glycolysis, Na/K ATPase activity was similar in Db and C aorta. Palmitate (0.4 mM) inhibited Na/K ATPase activity and glucose oxidation to a similar extent in both Db and C but had no effect on glycolysis in either group. Elevation of palmitate to 1.2 mM had no additional inhibitory effect on glucose oxidation, Na/K ATPase activity or glycolysis in either the Db or C aorta. The metabolism of exogenous palmitate restored the ATP production in Db to control values. These data demonstrate that, despite the diminished glycolysis and glucose oxidation demonstrated in the Db tissue, Na/K ATPase activity was comparable in the C and Db aorta, in the absence or presence of exogenous long-chain fatty acid. Therefore, the accelerated oxidation of palmitate in diabetic vascular smooth muscle had no additional inhibitory effect on glycolysis or Na/K ATPase activity. These data suggest that Na/K ATPase activity in vascular smooth muscle is not impaired by the altered pattern of substrate utilization that occurs in insulin-deficient Db rats.
Ultrastructural changes and immunohistochemical localization of nitric oxide synthase, advanced glycation end products and NF-kappa B in aorta of streptozotocin treated Mongolian gerbils.	To evaluate the relationship among the induction of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and NF-kappa B for vascular damage in hyperglycemia, we injected Mongolian gerbils intravenously with 150 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ) and observed over the next one year the resulting aortic changes by immunohistochemical and electron microscopical techniques. After STZ treatment, hyperglycemia was confirmed and body weight transiently decreased. Morphological observation revealed no remarkable changs in vascular endothelial cells or vascular smooth muscle cells in the aorta at one week after STZ administration. After 4 weeks increased collagen fibrils were observed in the pericellular spaces of media. At one year after STZ administration, increased collagen fibrils and thickened elastic fibers were found around the vascular smooth muscle cells with vacuolization and increased cytoplasmic organellae compared with non-treated animals of the same age. Immunohistochemically endothelial constitutive NOS (ecNOS) was localized in the endothelium of the aorta of Mongolian gerbils. At one year after STZ administration, the reaction products of iNOS, AGEs and NF-kappa B in vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells were much more greatly increased than at one week and 4 weeks. After STZ administration, the localization of NOS, AGEs and NF-kappa B was observed in the aorta, which suggests these factors play important roles in the pathogenesis of vasculopathy in diabetes mellitus.
Renal-protective effect of non-depressor dose of cicletanine in streptozotocin diabetic rats.	To assess the renal benefits of cicletanine (CIC) in diabetic rats with renal impairment.
Transgenic mice expressing Shb adaptor protein under the control of rat insulin promoter exhibit altered viability of pancreatic islet cells.	The Src-homology 2 domain-containing adaptor protein Shb was recently cloned as a serum-inducible gene in the insulin-producing beta-TC1 cell line. Subsequent studies have revealed an involvement of Shb for apoptosis in NIH3T3 fibroblasts and differentiation in the neuronal PC12 cells. To assess a role of Shb for beta-cell function, transgenic mice utilizing the rat insulin promoter to drive expression of Shb were generated.
Power spectra of arterial pressure and heart rate in streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.	Chronic diabetes is associated with alterations in autonomic modulation of the cardiovascular system. Although the rat has been used extensively in studies of experimental diabetes, there have been no reports on the changes in autonomic modulation of the cardiovascular function in chronic diabetic rats.
Reperfusion-induced oxidative stress in diabetes: cellular and enzymatic sources.	Reactive oxygen metabolites (ROMs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the inflammatory response to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R), which is exacerbated in diabetes. This study revealed an increased (P < 0.01) ROMs production in mesenteric tissue (measured using the oxidant-sensitive fluorochrome dihydrorhodamine 123) after I/R in control and diabetic rats, with larger increments (P <0.0001) observed in the latter group, that was associated with an increased inflammatory response measured by intravital microscopy. Either xanthine oxidase inhibition, superoxide scavenging, ICAM-1 immunoneutralization, or blockade of platelet-activating factor or leukotrienes effectively reduced leukocyte recruitment and ROMs production in control and diabetic rats. Moreover, neutrophils from diabetic rats showed an enhanced production of ROMs in vitro in basal and stimulated conditions. We conclude that the oxidative stress during reperfusion is markedly enhanced in diabetes and this appears to result from increased leukocyte recruitment and a higher capacity of diabetic leukocytes to generate ROMs in response to stimulation.
Pioglitazone prevents mice from multiple low-dose streptozotocin-induced insulitis and diabetes.	Macrophage infiltration into pancreatic islets is thought to be an initial event inducing insulitis in the development of type 1 diabetes. Thiazolidinedione is a direct ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, recently reported to inhibit macrophage activation, including cytokine production and type 2 nitric oxide synthase expression. We investigated the effect of pioglitazone, a thiazolidinedione compound, on the development of multiple low-dose streptozotocin (MLDS)-induced autoimmune diabetes in mice. CD-1 mice intraperitoneally injected with five daily sub-diabetogenic doses (30 or 40 mg/kg body weight) of streptozotocin developed mononuclear cell infiltration in and around islets, followed by hyperglycemia. Oral administration of pioglitazone (0.01% food admixture) from 7 days before the first streptozotocin injection prevented or delayed the development of diabetes induced by MLDS. Histologically, pioglitazone blocked the infiltration of mononuclear cells into islets in MLDS mice. Peritoneal macrophages from MLDS mice at day-7 produced significantly large amount of nitric oxide compared with those from control mice. Such activation of peritoneal macrophages was not observed in pioglitazone-treated MLDS mice. These findings suggest that pioglitazone blocks the autoimmune process in the development of MLDS diabetes, partly by inhibiting the macrophage activation.
Effect of the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine in normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive, diabetic rats on kidney morphology and urinary albumin excretion.	To investigate the effect of nitrendipine on the development of renal changes in experimental diabetes.
Taurine counteracts oxidative stress and nerve growth factor deficit in early experimental diabetic neuropathy.	Oxidative stress has a key role in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications. We have previously reported that taurine (T), which is known to counteract oxidative stress in tissues (lens, kidney, retina) of diabetic rats, attenuates nerve blood flow and conduction deficits in early experimental diabetic neuropathy (EDN). The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether dietary T supplementation counteracts oxidative stress and the nerve growth factor (NGF) deficit in the diabetic peripheral nerve. The experiments were performed in control rats and streptozotocin-diabetic rats fed standard or 1% T-supplemented diets for 6 weeks. All measurements were performed in the sciatic nerve. Malondialdehyde (MDA) plus 4-hydroxyalkenals (4-HA) were quantified with N-methyl-2-phenylindole. GSH, GSSG, dehydroascorbate (DHAA), and ascorbate (AA) were assayed spectrofluorometrically, T by reverse-phase HPLC, and NGF by ELISA. MDA plus 4-HA concentration (mean +/- SEM) was increased in diabetic rats (0.127 +/- 0.006 vs 0.053 +/- 0.003 micromol/g in controls, P < 0.01), and this increase was partially prevented by T (0.096 +/- 0.004, P < 0.01 vs untreated diabetic group). GSH levels were similarly decreased in diabetic rats treated with or without taurine vs controls. GSSG levels were similar in control and diabetic rats but were lower in diabetic rats treated with T (P < 0.05 vs controls). AA levels were decreased in diabetic rats (0.133 +/- 0.015 vs 0.219 +/- 0.023 micromol/g in controls, P < 0.05), and this deficit was prevented by T. DHAA/AA ratio was increased in diabetic rats vs controls (P < 0.05), and this increase was prevented by T. T levels were decreased in diabetic rats (2.7 +/- 0.16 vs 3.8 +/- 0.1 micromol/g in controls, P < 0.05) and were repleted by T supplementation (4.2 +/- 0.3). NGF levels were decreased in diabetic rats (2.35 +/- 0.20 vs 3.57 +/- 0.20 ng/g in controls, P < 0.01), and this decrease was attenuated by T treatment (3.16 +/- 0.28, P < 0.05 vs diabetic group). In conclusion, T counteracts oxidative stress and the NGF deficit in early EDN. Antioxidant effects of T in peripheral nerve are, at least in part, mediated through the ascorbate system of antioxidative defense. The findings are consistent with the important role for oxidative stress in impaired neurotrophic support in EDN.
Reduced Ia-afferent-mediated Hoffman reflex in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	In addition to reduced nerve conduction velocity, diabetic neuropathic patients often exhibit a reduction in the amplitude of the compound muscle action potential elicited by stimulation of the Ia-afferent-mediated reflex pathway (Hoffman or H wave) that can contribute to diminished or absent tendon reflexes. In contrast to nerve conduction velocity deficits, changes in H-wave amplitudes have not been reproduced in diabetic animal models. Using electrophysiological techniques developed for repeated recordings in individual animals, we report H-wave deficits in streptozotocin (STZ)-treated insulin-dependent diabetic rats. After 4 weeks of diabetes induced by STZ treatment, a 47% reduction in the H-wave amplitude was demonstrated by recording compound muscle action potentials in foot muscles after stimulation of Ia afferents. Interestingly, we also demonstrate that the H-wave amplitude gradually recovers to a 26% deficit after 12 weeks of experimental diabetes. The recovery of the H wave in STZ-treated rats distinguishes this deficit mechanistically from other STZ-induced electrophysiological changes and may model a similar recovery of the H wave reported in diabetic patients.
Effect of modified diabetic splenocytes on mice injected with splenocytes from multiple low-dose streptozotocin diabetic donors.	Etiological agents of autoimmune processes that have been made nonvirulent by several treatments, i.e., mitomycin C (Mit C), can be used as a vaccine to protect against disease. In this work we studied the effects of splenocytes from diabetic mice on animals that had been injected with modified splenocytes (Mit C-treated splenocytes from multiple low-dose streptozotocin [mld-sz] mice) 15 days before. Splenocytes from mld-sz diabetic donors altered i.p. glucose tolerance and the first peak of insulin secretion pattern when injected into normal singeneic recipients. These effects can be prevented partially (one injection in a vaccine form) or completely (two injections with a 15-day interval) by a previous injection of Mit C-treated mononuclear splenocytes (MS) from mld-sz mice. The fact that control splenocytes previously treated with Mit C were not able to achieve similar results indicates that donor splenocytes have to be diabetic to prevent the disease. On the other hand, Mit C-treated diabetic MS were not effective in preventing the alterations in glucose tolerance and in the pattern of insulin secretion when injected into athymic mice. This suggests that the preventive effect of Mit C-treated diabetic MS injection also implies an active role of the T cells from the recipient mice. Mit C-treated diabetic splenocytes are preferentially trapped by the pancreas and the lymph nodes from recipient mice. Our results show that the impairment in glucose tolerance and in the insulin secretion pattern produced by diabetic splenocyte transfer can be prevented by one or two previous injections of Mit C-modified diabetic splenocytes.
Attenuated agonist evoked vasoconstrictor responses in the perfused mesenteric vascular bed of streptozotocin diabetic rats.	We compared agonist-evoked responses in the perfused mesenteric vascular bed (MVB) of streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic Sprague-Dawley rats 2 and 14 weeks after induction of diabetes. Endothelin-1 (ET-1)-, methoxamine (MTX)-, and KCl-evoked vasoconstrictor responses were unchanged in 2-week-old diabetic rats. In contrast, both the sensitivity (P < 0.01) and the maximal vasoconstrictor responses (P < 0.05) to ET-1 were attenuated in 14-week-old diabetic rats, whereas endothelin plasma levels were increased (P < 0.05). Although no differences were observed in responses to KCl in either the 2- or 14-week-old diabetic groups, MTX-evoked maximal responses were attenuated in the 14-week-old group (P < 0.01). Changes in agonist-evoked responses in the 14-week-old diabetic group were unaffected by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, staurosporine, the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor, U73122, the calcium channel blocker, nifedipine, the calcium pump inhibitor, cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), or by endothelial denudation. Sodium fluoride (NaF), an activator of guanosine triphosphate binding proteins (G proteins) normalized the responses in the 14-week-old diabetic group. These data suggest that advanced stages of STZ are associated with alterations in G protein receptor coupling and/or activity leading to the attenuation of responses to vasoconstrictor agonists.
Advanced glycation end product levels in eye lenses, aorta, and tail tendon in transplanted diabetic inbred Lewis rats.	Pancreatic islet transplantation in diabetes, by restoring euglycemia, should in time correct the abnormal accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) over target tissues, thus delaying the development of late diabetic complications.
Triiodothyronine concomitantly inhibits calcium overload and postischemic myocardial stunning in diabetic rats.	Acute effects of triiodothyronine (T3) on postischemic myocardial stunning and intracellular Ca2+ contents were studied in the isolated working hearts of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and age-matched controls. After two weeks of diabetes, serum T3 and T4 levels were decreased to 62.5% and 33.9% of control values. Basal preischemic cardiac performance did not differ between diabetic and control rats. In contrast, during reperfusion after 20-min ischemia, diabetic rats exhibited an impaired recovery of heart rate (at 30-min reperfusion 57.5% of baseline vs. control 88.5%), left ventricular (LV) systolic pressure (44.1% vs. 89.5%), and cardiac work (23.1% vs. 66.0%). When 1 and 100 nM T3 was added before ischemia, heart rate was recovered to 77.2% and 81.8% of baseline, LV systolic pressure to 68.3% and 81.9%, and cardiac work to 50.8% and 59.0%, respectively. Diabetic rat hearts showed a higher Ca2+ content in the basal state and a further increase after reperfusion (4.96+/-1.17 vs. control 3.78+/-0.48 micromol/g, p<0.01). In diabetic hearts, H+ release was decreased after reperfusion (5.24+/-2.21 vs. 8.70+/-1.41 mmol/min/g, p<0.05). T3 administration caused a decrease in the postischemic Ca2+ accumulation (lnM T3 4.66+/-0.41 and 100 nM T3 3.58+/-0.36) and recovered the H+ release (lnM T3 16.2+/-3.9 and 100 nM T3 11.6+/-0.9). T3 did not alter myocardial O2 consumption. Results suggest that diabetic rat hearts are vulnerable to postischemic stunning, and T3 protects the myocardial stunning possibly via inhibiting Ca2+ overload.
Effect of chronic treatment with losartan on streptozotocin induced diabetic nephropathy.	Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors produce a number of beneficial effects in a condition where diabetes - mellitus and hypertension co-exist. The present investigation was undertaken to study the effect of chronic treatment with losartan (2mg/kg, p.o.) on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced (45mg/kg, single dose, tail vein) diabetic nephropathy in rats. Treatment of rats with STZ produced a significant loss of body weight, polyuria. polydipsia, hypoinsulinemia, hyperglycemia and increase in blood pressure. There was a significant increase in blood glucose levels in STZ-diabetic rats. Serum cholesterol, creatinine, urea and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels were found to be increased significantly in the STZ group diabetic rats. Treatment with losartan significantly prevented the raise in cholesterol, creatinine, urea and blood urea nitrogen levels. Creatinine clearance was significantly less in STZ-diabetic rats as compared to control animals and treatment with losartan significantly increased creatinine clearence. Our data suggest a beneficial effect of losartan in STZ-induced nephropathy in rats.
Characteristic changes of stress protein expression in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Stress proteins (heat shock proteins, HSP) play essential roles in folding, assembly and translocation of polypeptides and also in maintenance of the integrity of polypeptides as molecular chaperones. Since long-lasting hyperglycemia causes modification of cellular proteins, it is possible that expression of molecular chaperones may be altered during the course of diabetes. Here, we examined the cellular levels of stress proteins such as HSP105, HSP90 and HSC70/HSP70 in various tissues of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. In comparison to controls, the levels of HSC70 were markedly decreased in the liver but not in the brain, adrenal gland and pancreas of diabetic rats. The levels of HSP105 and HSP90 were not significantly changed in these tissues of diabetic rats. Furthermore, the induction of HSP70 as well as HSC70 by hyperthermia was significantly reduced in the liver and adrenal gland of diabetic rats. These results suggested that the expression and induction of HSC70/HSP70 may be altered during the course of diabetic disease and may result in impairment of the cytoprotective ability of diabetic rats.
Improvement in insulin sensitivity by losartan in non-insulin-dependent diabetic (NIDDM) rats.	The present investigation was undertaken to study the effects of chronic treatment with losartan (2 mg kg(-1)/ day P.O) in neonatal non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) rats. To induce NIDDM single-dose injection of STZ (70 mg kg(-1); i.p.) was given to 5 day old pups. The animals were weaned at 30 days and after a period of 3 months, they were checked for fasting and fed glucose levels to confirm the status of NIDDM. Losartan (2 mg kg(-1); p.o.) was administered for 6 weeks into the confirmed diabetic rats. A group of control animals were also maintained and this group received saline 5 days after birth. Fasting and fed glucose levels in NIDDM rats were significantly higher than control rats. Treatment with losartan in the NIDDM rats caused a significant decrease in insulin levels and reduction in elevated fasting and fed glucose levels. Results of the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) showed a significant increase in AUC(glucose)and AUC(insulin)values in NIDDM control rats. Losartan treatment significantly decreased both AUC(glucose)and AUC(insulin)values. Insulin sensitivity (K(ITT)) index of NIDDM control was significantly low as compared to Wistar control animals followed by significant increase in T(1/2)glucose value. Losartan treatment significantly reversed both K(ITT)and T(1/2)glucose value. Our data indicates that losartan increases insulin sensitivity in NIDDM rats.
Enhanced responses of the chorda tympani nerve to sugars in the ventromedial hypothalamic obese rat.	Sweet taste sensitivity in obese rats with lesions of the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) was studied by examining chorda tympani nerve responses to various taste stimuli including sugars. In the early progressive phase of obesity (2 wk after creating VMH lesions), there was no significant difference in the nerve responses to any taste stimulus between sham-operated and VMH-lesioned rats. In contrast, in the late phase of obesity (15-18 wk after VMH lesions), the magnitude of responses to sugars (except for fructose) was prominently greater than that in age-matched controls. High-fat diet-induced obese rats and streptozotocin-diabetic rats also showed greater chorda tympani nerve responses to sugars as was observed in VMH-lesioned obese rats, indicating that VMH lesions might not be specifically related to the enhanced gustatory neural responses to sugars. Although it has been demonstrated that the enhanced responses of the chorda tympani nerve to sugars in genetically diabetic db/db mice is largely attributable to the lack of the direct suppressive effect of leptin on the taste receptor cells, plasma leptin levels were not correlated with the changes in chorda tympani responsiveness to sugars in these models of obesity and diabetes. Accordingly, our results suggest that some chronic factors, including high blood glucose, inefficiency of insulin action, or leptin resistance may be related to the enhancement of chorda tympani nerve responses to sugars.
Hepatic expression of a targeting subunit of protein phosphatase-1 in streptozotocin-diabetic rats reverses hyperglycemia and hyperphagia despite depressed glucokinase expression.	Glycogen-targeting subunits of protein phosphatase-1 (PP-1) are scaffolding proteins that facilitate the regulation of key enzymes of glycogen metabolism by PP-1. In the current study, we have tested the effects of hepatic expression of GMDeltaC, a truncated version of the muscle-targeting subunit isoform, in rats rendered insulin-deficient via injection of a single moderate dose of streptozotocin (STZ). Three key findings emerged. First, GMDeltaC expression in liver was sufficient to fully normalize blood glucose levels (from 335 +/- 31 mg/dl prior to viral injection to 109 +/- 28 mg/dl 6 days after injection) and liver glycogen content in STZ-injected rats. Second, this normalization occurred despite very low levels of liver glucokinase expression in the insulin-deficient STZ-injected rats. Finally, the hyperphagia induced by STZ injection was completely reversed by GMDeltaC expression in liver. In contrast to these findings with GMDeltaC, overexpression of another targeting subunit, GL, in STZ-injected rats caused a large increase in liver glycogen stores but only a transient decrease in food intake and blood glucose levels. The surprising demonstration of a glucose-lowering effect of GMDeltaC in the background of depressed hepatic glucokinase expression suggests that controlled stimulation of liver glycogen storage may be an effective mechanism for improving glucose homeostasis, even when normal pathways of glucose disposal are impaired.
Blockade of advanced glycation end-product formation restores ischemia-induced angiogenesis in diabetic mice.	We hypothesized that formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) associated with diabetes reduces matrix degradation by metalloproteinases (MMPs) and contributes to the impairment of ischemia-induced angiogenesis. Mice were treated or not with streptozotocin (40 mg/kg) and streptozotocin plus aminoguanidine (AGEs formation blocker, 50 mg/kg). After 8 weeks of treatment, hindlimb ischemia was induced by right femoral artery ligature. Plasma AGE levels were strongly elevated in diabetic mice when compared with control mice (579 +/- 21 versus 47 +/- 4 pmol/ml, respectively; P < 0.01). Treatment with aminoguanidine reduced AGE plasma levels when compared with untreated diabetic mice (P < 0.001). After 28 days of ischemia, ischemic/nonischemic leg angiographic score, capillary density, and laser Doppler skin-perfusion ratios were 1.4-, 1.5-, and 1.4-fold decreased in diabetic mice in reference to controls (P < 0.01). Treatment with aminoguanidine completely normalized ischemia-induced angiogenesis in diabetic mice. We next analyzed the role of proteolysis in AGE formation-induced hampered neovascularization process. After 3 days of ischemia, MMP-2 activity and MMP-3 and MMP-13 protein levels were increased in untreated and aminoguanidine-treated diabetic mice when compared with controls (P < 0.05). Despite this activation of the MMP pathway, collagenolysis was decreased in untreated diabetic mice. Conversely, treatment of diabetic mice with aminoguanidine restored collagenolysis toward levels found in control mice. In conclusion, blockade of AGE formation by aminoguanidine normalizes impaired ischemia-induced angiogenesis in diabetic mice. This effect is probably mediated by restoration of matrix degradation processes that are disturbed as a result of AGE accumulation.
Bone marrow-derived stem cells initiate pancreatic regeneration.	We show that transplantation of adult bone marrow-derived cells expressing c-kit reduces hyperglycemia in mice with streptozotocin-induced pancreatic damage. Although quantitative analysis of the pancreas revealed a low frequency of donor insulin-positive cells, these cells were not present at the onset of blood glucose reduction. Instead, the majority of transplanted cells were localized to ductal and islet structures, and their presence was accompanied by a proliferation of recipient pancreatic cells that resulted in insulin production. The capacity of transplanted bone marrow-derived stem cells to initiate endogenous pancreatic tissue regeneration represents a previously unrecognized means by which these cells can contribute to the restoration of organ function.
Effect of Coccinia indica leaf extract on plasma antioxidants in streptozotocin- induced experimental diabetes in rats.	The present study was carried out to investigate the antioxidant effect of an ethanolic extract of Coccinia indica leaves, an indigenous plant used in Ayurvedic Medicine in India, in Streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Oral administration of Coccinia indica leaf extract (CLEt) (200 mg/kg body weight) for 45 days resulted in a significant reduction in plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, hydroperoxides, vitamin E and ceruloplasmin. The extract also caused a significant increase in plasma vitamin C and reduced glutathione, which clearly shows the antioxidant property of CLEt. The effect of CLEt at 200 mg/kg body weight was more effective than glibenclamide.
Diabetes undermines estrogen control of inducible nitric oxide synthase function in rat aortic smooth muscle cells through overexpression of estrogen receptor-beta.	Previous reports from our group have shown that 17beta-estradiol reduces the synthesis and activity of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in rat aortic smooth muscle cells (SMC) in response to inflammatory mediators. In this study, we investigated the effect of 17beta-estradiol on iNOS function in aortic SMC from streptozotocin-diabetic rats.
Sodium selenate partially corrects impaired functional responses in detrusor muscle in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Selenium selenate was administered to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats to assess its effects on the detrusor muscle. Thirty-two rats were divided into four groups of eight subjects each. The study animals were made diabetic by means of a single intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ). The responsiveness of the detrusor was improved in the group injected with sodium selenate. Diabetes caused significant increases in carbachol and beta,gamma-MeATP-evoked contractions and significant decrease of contractions induced by electrical stimulation. Isoprenaline-induced relaxation of the detrusor muscle was diminished by diabetes, whereas ATP relaxation appeared to be increased. Although adenosine-induced relaxations in controls and in diabetic rats were accompanied by unchanged responses in normoxic conditions, a significant enhancement in the detrusor muscle was observed during hypoxia. This enhancement of adenosine responsiveness in hypoxic conditions is inhibited in diabetes. Treatment with sodium selenate prevented alterations of both carbachol-induced contractility and isoprenaline-evoked relaxation, whereas nerve-mediated contractions and purinergic responses were not improved in diabetic rats after treatment. Our data suggest that changes in cholinergic and adrenergic responses were the result of selenium deficiency in diabetic rats.
Effects of cadmium exposure on morphological aspects of pancreas, weights of fetus and placenta in streptozotocin-induced diabetic pregnant rats.	This study was designed to evaluate the effects of Cd exposure on morphological aspects of beta-cell and weights of fetus and placenta in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic pregnant rats. Ninety-nine virgin female Wistar rats (200-220 g) were mated with 33 males for at least 12 h. From the onset of pregnancy, the rats were divided into four experimental groups (control, Cd treated, STZ treated, and Cd+STZ treated). The Cd-treated group was injected subcutaneously daily with CdCl2 dissolved in isotonic NaCl, starting at the onset of pregnancy throughout the experiment. Diabetes was induced on the 13th d of pregnancy by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ in STZ-treated group. In addition to the daily injection of Cd, a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ was also given on the 13th d of pregnancy in the Cd+STZ-treated group. The rats received the last injection 24 h before being sacrificed and 10 randomly selected rats in each group were sacrificed on the 15th and 20th d of pregnancy. Blood samples were taken for the determination of the serum glucose and insulin levels. Maternal pancreases, fetuses, and placentas of sacrificed rats in all groups were harvested (fetal pancreas was also harvested only on the 20th d of pregnancy) for morphological and immunohistochemical examinations. Cd exposure alone caused a degeneration, necrosis, and weak degranulation, but Cd exposure with STZ caused a severe degeneration, necrosis, and degranulation in the beta-cells of the pancreatic islets. No morphological or immunohistochemical differences were found in beta-cells of fetal pancreatic islets of control or other treatment groups. Cd exposure alone also decreased the fetal and placental weights. The administration of STZ alone, on the other hand, increased the placental weight. Cd, STZ, and Cd+STZ administration increased the glucose and decreased the insulin level. The increase in glucose and decrease in insulin levels were higher when Cd and STZ were given together. All of these changes were more severe on the 20th d than those on the 15th d of the pregnancy. It is concluded that Cd exposure during pregnancy may reduce the birth and placental weights and produce necrosis, degeneration, and degranulation in beta-cells of pancreatic islets, causing an increase in the serum glucose level. These changes might be severe in diabetic pregnant mothers.
Antidiabetic effect of Lactobacillus GG in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Neonatally streptozotocin-induced diabetic (n-STZ) rats were given food containing Lactobacillus GG cells (GG) or a control diet (control), from 9 to 18 weeks of age. The GG cells significantly lowered the blood hemoglobin A(1C) (HbA(1C)) level and improved glucose tolerance in n-STZ rats (p<0.05). In the GG group, the serum insulin level at 30 min after glucose loading was significantly higher than in the control group (p<0.05).
Liver-specific IGF-I gene deficient mice exhibit accelerated diabetes in response to streptozotocin, associated with early onset of insulin resistance.	Liver-specific IGF-I gene deficient (LID) mice exhibit pancreatic islet hyperplasia and insulin resistance. To clarify their causal relationship, we studied age-dependent changes in these two aspects and the response to beta-cell damage caused by streptozotocin in adult mice. As a result, the onset of insulin resistance in LID mice was detectable as early as 1-month of age, while hyperinsulinemia was developed after a significant delay at 2.5-month. Upon streptozotocin administration, control mice exhibited significant hyperglycemia after 9 days, and glucose levels continued to rise at 12-15 days. LID mice developed diabetes much more rapidly, with hyperglycemia after 6 days and higher glucose levels up to 15 days. They also exhibited significant weight loss and 6/19 died. Serum insulin assay, insulin mRNA analysis and immunohistochemistry revealed that the more severe diabetes in LID mice was not due to more damage to their beta-cells. Thus LID mice are more sensitive to streptozotocin-induced beta-cell damage, due to a primary defect in insulin responsiveness. The pancreatic islet hyperplasia observed in these mice seems to represent a compensatory response to insulin resistance, therefore, offers no protection against beta-cell damage.
P2X and P2Y purinoceptor expression in pancreas from streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	The expression of the nucleotide receptors P2X1, P2X2, P2X7, P2Y1, P2Y2 and P2Y4, in the pancreas of the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat was investigated using immunohistochemistry. In diabetic animals, P2X7 receptor expression, normally located in the outer periphery of the islet, was increased and located inside the islet. Double-labelling experiments, using antibodies raised against insulin, somatostatin and glucagon, showed, for the first time, an increase in immunostaining for P2X7 receptors on islet glucagon-containing alpha cells (which had migrated to the interior), while no P2X7 receptors were found in beta and delta cells. P2Y1 receptors were present in intra-islet capillaries, while P2Y4 receptors were found on both alpha and beta cells. P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptor expression was also found in pancreatic duct cells and P2X1, P2X2, P2Y1 and P2Y2 receptors were identified in small blood vessels.
Suspensions of pro-drug insulin greatly prolong normoglycemic patterns in diabetic rats.	FMS(3)-insulin (2-sulfo-9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl)(3)-insulin is a water soluble, inactive-reactivated derivative of insulin with protracted action in vivo. In this study we find that FMS(3)-insulin preserves insulin's capacity to crystallize when associated with Zn(2+) ions or with basic protamine. Zinc or protamine suspended preparations of FMS(3)-insulin manifest substantially prolonged, blood glucose-lowering pharmacokinetic profiles in STZ-treated rats (STZ-rats). A dose of up to 1mg suspended FMS(3)-insulin/STZ rat can be subcutaneously administered with no hypoglycemic episodes at any time point after administration. This dose yielded glucose-lowering profiles with t(1/2) values at the range of 50-70h, turning catabolic STZ-rats into anabolic ones over a period of 2-3 days. The obtained glucose-lowering patterns exceeded 7-8 times in duration those produced by nonhypoglycemic doses of NPH-insulin. In summary, subcutaneous administration of suspended insulin prodrugs, such as FMS(3)-insulin, can bring about prolonged, nonhypoglycemic glucose-lowering profiles, unattainable with insulin preparations, which are known to be active at the time of administration.
Experimental study of corpus cavernosal nerve evoked potential in diabetic rats]	To observe the cavernosal nerve dysfunction of diabetic Sprague Dawley rats.
Changes of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus of diabetic rats.	To explore the role of nitric oxide in the development of diabetes mellitus by observing the changes of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-immunoreactive (nNOS-ir) neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN) of diabetic rats.
Inosine protects against the development of diabetes in multiple-low-dose streptozotocin and nonobese diabetic mouse models of type 1 diabetes.	Inosine, a naturally occurring purine, was long considered to be an inactive metabolite of adenosine. However, recently inosine has been shown to be an immunomodulator and anti-inflammatory agent. The aim of this study was to determine whether inosine influences anti-inflammatory effects and affects the development of type 1 diabetes in murine models. Type 1 diabetes was induced either chemically by streptozotocin or genetically using the nonobese diabetic mouse (NOD) model. Mice were treated with inosine (100 or 200 mg kg(-1)d(-1)d) and diabetes incidence was monitored. The effect of inosine on pancreas immune cell infiltration, oxidative stress, and cytokine profile also was determined. For the transplantation model islets were placed under the renal capsule of NOD mice and inosine (200 mg kg(-1)d d(-1)d) treatment started the day of islet transplantation. Graft rejection was diagnosed by return of hyperglycemia accompanied by glucosuria and ketonuria. Inosine reduced the incidence of diabetes in both streptozotocin-induced diabetes and spontaneous diabetes in NOD mice. Inosine decreased pancreatic leukocyte infiltration and oxidative stress in addition to switching the cytokine profile from a Th1 to a Th2 profile. Inosine prolonged pancreatic islet graft survival, increased the number of surviving beta cells, and reduced the number of infiltrating leukocytes. Inosine protects against both the development of diabetes and against the rejection of transplanted islets. The purine exerts anti-inflammatory effects in the pancreas, which is its likely mode of action. The use of inosine should be considered as a potential preventative therapy in humans susceptible to developing Type 1 diabetes and as a possible antirejection therapy for islet transplant recipients.
Studies on the effects of glucose in vitro and of the glycaemic state in vivo on the binding characteristics of mu, delta and kappa opiate receptors in mouse brain.	The effect of glucose on the binding characteristics of opiate receptor subtypes was investigated in brain membranes from normoglycaemic lean Aston (C57BL/6J) mice using [3H][D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO), [3H][D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin (DPDPE) and [3H]U69,593 as selective ligands for mu, delta and kappa opiate receptors respectively. The equilibrium dissociation constants (Kd) and maximal binding capacities (Bmax) of [3H]DAMGO and [3H]DPDPE were unaltered by 20mM glucose in vitro. Similarly, [3H]U69,593 binding was not modified by increasing the concentration of glucose from 0 to 20mM (P between 0.10 and 0.05), or by the presence of 20mM fructose and of 20mM 3-O-me-glucose, a non-metabolisable sugar, in the incubation medium. The nonselective opiate ligand, [3H]diprenorphine, bound with similar affinity and binding capacity to brain membranes prepared from control and streptozotocin-diabetic Swiss (CD1) mice. The addition of 20mM glucose or of 20mM fructose in vitro induced no changes in their binding parameters. The affinity and binding capacity of [3H]U69,593 to STZ-diabetic Swiss mouse brain membranes was not significantly different to that of normoglycaemic controls; 20mM glucose in vitro had no effect on ligand binding to kappa sites in STZ-diabetic mouse brain membranes. We conclude that glucose does not interact directly with the opiate receptor to modfy it in such as way as could explain the altered sensitivity to different opioid agonists seen in obese and hyperglycaemic animal models in vivo.
Comparison of hematologic parameters in normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Hematologic values are compared for normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats after 6 weeks of induced diabetes. Most hematologic parameters were the same in the two groups except for blood glucose, glycated hemoglobin, and 2,3 diphosphoglycerate, all of which were elevated in the streptozotocin group. However the P50 (the PO2 at which the oxygen-carrying capacity of blood is 50% of maximal) remained normal. We hypothesize that a left shift in the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve caused by the glycation of a small percentage of the hemoglobin is compensated by elevation in the 2,3-diphosphoglycerate which returns the P50 to normal values. This compensatory mechanism also occurs in some stages of human diabetes.
Transport of L-glutamine and L-glutamate across sinusoidal membranes of rat liver. Effects of starvation, diabetes and corticosteroid treatment.	There is increasing evidence that membrane transporters for glutamine and glutamate are involved in control of liver metabolism in health and disease. We therefore investigated the effects of three catabolic states [starvation (60 h), diabetes (4 days after streptozotocin treatment) and corticosteroid (8-day dexamethasone) treatment] associated with altered hepatic amino acid metabolism on the activity of glutamine and glutamate transporters in sinusoidal membrane vesicles from livers of treated rats. In control preparations, L-[14C]glutamine uptake was largely Na(+)-dependent, but L-[14C]glutamate uptake was largely Na(+)-independent. Vmax. values for Na(+)-dependent uptake of glutamine and/or glutamate exceeded control values (by about 2- and 12-fold respectively) in liver membrane vesicles from starved (glutamine), diabetic (glutamate) or steroid-treated (glutamine and glutamate) rats. The Km values for Na(+)-dependent transport of glutamine or glutamate and the rates of their Na(+)-independent uptake were not significantly altered by any treatment. Na(+)-independent glutamate uptake appeared to include a dicarboxylate-exchange component. The patterns of inhibition of glutamine and glutamate uptake by other amino acids indicated that the apparent induction of Na(+)-dependent amino acid transport in catabolic states included increased functional expression of systems A, N (both for glutamine) and X-ag (for glutamate). The results demonstrate that conditions resulting in increased secretion of catabolic hormones (e.g. corticosteroid, glucagon) are associated with increased capacity for Na(+)-dependent transport of amino acids into liver cells from the blood. The modulation of hepatic permeability to glutamine and glutamate in these situations may control the availability of amino acids for intrahepatic metabolic processes such as ureagenesis, ammonia detoxification and gluconeogenesis.
Pathology and time relationship of peripheral nerve changes in experimental diabetes.	Structural changes have been studied in peripheral nerves in streptozotocin-induced diabetic monkeys. Teased single nerve fibre preparations were most informative. Abnormalities were present in 32 of 58 nerves examined from 15 diabetic monkeys with varying degree of hyperglycaemia. The earliest change was an increase in the gap at nodes of Ranvier, seen 12 weeks after the diabetic state had been established. Well marked segmental demyelination was seen in distal nerves at 14-16 weeks. Later similar changes were seen in proximal, larger nerves. Evidence of remyelination was present at a later date. Wallerian degneration was seen in only 4 nerves. Changes in the myelin sheath were more prominant than axonal abnormalities at all times. There was no abnormality in the vasa nervorum and only a mild increase in endoneurial and perineurial fibrous tissue. A direct correlation was present between the extent and degree of pathology and both severity as well as duration of hyperglycaemia.
Experimental diabetes reduces circulating 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in the rat.	Duodenal calcium absorption and a vitamin D-dependent duodenal calcium-binding protein are depressed in rats with alloxan- or streptozotocin-induced diabetes. To test for possible abnormal vitamin D metabolism in diabetes we measured serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in control, streptozotocin diabetic, and insulin-treated diabetic rats. The serum concentration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D was depressed in untreated diabetic rats to one-eighth of the level in controls and was restored to control levels by insulin treatment. The serum concentration of 25-hydroxyvitamin D was the same in all three groups. Hence, effects of diabetes on duodenal calcium transport can be explained by reduced concentrations of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D resulting either from failure of renal 1alpha-hydroxylation of 25-hydroxyvitamin D or increased catabolism of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.
Genetic control of glucokinase activity in mice.	Inbred strains of mice were surveyed for liver glucokinase activity. Mice of all strains studied could be distributed into three groups with high, intermediate, and low levels of enzyme activity. Genetic analysis using crosses and backcrosses with prototype high (C3H/HeJ) and low (RF/J) strains revealed that glucokinase activity was controlled by a single gene. The name "glucokinase" and gene symbol Gk are suggested for this gene. The Gka allele designates the strain with high glucokinase activity, while Gkb represents the allele in the strain with the low enzyme activity. The interaction of fasting and diabetes on the activity of glucokinase in these two strains is described.
Peripheral nerve fiber size in experimental diabetes.	Serial morphometric observations were made on the tibial nerves of mature rats before and five weeks after the induction of diabetes by streptozotocin. Maximum and average myelinated fiber diameter did alter, neither did the relationship between myelin sheath thickness and axon circumference. This confirms previous observations suggesting that the reduced nerve conduction velocity that is known to occur in experimental diabetes is likely to depend on metabolic alterations rather than on structural changes.
Successful intra-splenic transplantation of syngeneic and allogeneic isolated pancreatic islets.	Adult rat islets harvested by the collagenase digestion/Ficoll separation technique were injected into the splenic pulp in 9 syngeneic (Lewis-leads to Lewis and WaG leads to WaG) and 13 allogeneic [(DA X Lewis) F1 leads to Lewis] experiments. Normal serum glucose levels and 24 hour urine volumes were restored in all 9 syngeneic recipients and in 11 out of the 13 allogeneic recipients in a mean of 3.3 days. Splenectomy performed on 3 of the 9 syngeneic recipients 110-178 days after transplantation resulted in a prompt return to the diabetic state. In all the remaining syngeneic recipients, normal values have persisted for the current period of observation of 6 months. In 5 untreated allogeneic recipients, rejection occurred in a mean of 5.2 days. The administration of a short course of ALS (1 ml I.P. days-1, 1, 3 and 5) to the remaining 6 animals greatly prolonged graft survival with all animals remaining normoglycaemic for at lest 4 weeks. These results were not significantly different from those recorded in comparable groups of intra-portal allogeneic islet recipients.
Effects of insulin and NSILA on adipocytes of normal and diabetic rats: receptor binding, glucose transport and glucose metabolism.	Isolated fat cells from normal and streptozotocin-diabetic rats were compared with respect to metabolic indices (glucose-uptake, 3-0-methyl-glucose efflux) with and without stimulation by insulin and nonsuppressible insulin-like activity (NSI-LA). In addition, binding studies were carried out with these two hormones. Basal 14C-glucose oxidation and incorporation into lipids was decreased in diabetic cells and their response to insulin and NSILA was greatly reduced. Basal efflux of 3-0-methylglucose from diabetic cells was somewhat faster than from normal cells. The response to insulin and NSILA was less than in normal cells and it was delayed. The apparent number of insulin binding sites as well as their affinity for insulin was increased in diabetic cells. In contrast, the apparent number of binding sites for NSILA was decreased in diabetic cells and their affinity for NSILA was increased. In normal cells insulin enhanced binding of 125I-NSILA more markedly than in diabetic cells. These findings show that the rate-limiting step of impaired glucose metabolism (oxidation and lipogenesis) in diabetic fat cells is beyond the interaction of the hormone with the receptor. They suggest that the apparent number of hormone receptors (insulin, NSILA) on the cell membrane is regulated individually for each binding site.
The intestinal brush border membrane in diabetes. Studies of sucrase-isomaltase metabolism in rats with streptozotocin diabetes.	Diabetes stimulates the functional activity of the intestinal brush border membrane with enhancement of both hydrolytic enzyme activity and membrane transport systems. To determine the mechanism of this effect, we studied the effects of streptozotocin diabetes on the metabolism of one membrane protein, sucrase-isomaltase, which increases its activity in diabetes. The protein was purified and an antiserum prepared. Sucrase-isomaltase from control and diabetic rats was immunologically identical as shown by Ouchterlony double-diffusion analysis of papain-solubilized mucosal proteins. The increase in sucrase enzyme activity in diabetic animals (31.0+/-1.4 U SEM 5 days after streptozotocin vs. 13.1+/-1.0 in controls) was the consequence of increased enzyme protein and not an alteration in catalytic efficiency as demonstrated by quantitative immunoprecipitin reactions. To account for increased sucrase-isomaltase protein in diabetes we studied papain-solubilized mucosal proteins labeled by injection of [(14)C]carbonate and [(14)C]leucine and analyzed incorporation into sucrase-isomaltase protein (anti-serum precipitable) and total protein (trichloroacetic acid precipitable). We found that diabetes did not affect the decay of labeled total protein, but prolonged the decay of labeled sucrase-isomaltase. t((1/2)) of sucrase-isomaltase was 4.4 h in control animals after [(14)C]carbonate injection and 8.8 and 10.2 h, respectively, 2 and 5 days after induction of streptozotocin diabetes. We obtained similar results in experiments with [(14)C]leucine with diabetes increasing t((1/2)) from 6 to 13.6 h. Diabetes did not appear to increase the rate of addition of sucrase-isomaltase to the brush border membrane, since it did not affect the 10- and 60-min incorporations of isotope into sucrase-isomaltase protein relative to incorporation into total protein and did not alter rate constants for synthesis calculated from the t((1/2)) and the change in enzyme mass over time.Thus, enhanced sucrase activity in the diabetic animal is the consequence of an increase in sucrase-isomaltase protein which develops because of a decrease in its rate of degradation.
Renal hypertrophy in experimental diabetes: a comparison to compensatory hypertrophy.	The kidney growth seen after the induction of experimental diabetes in rats has been compared to the compensatory renal growth after one-sided nephrectomy. After five days the kidney weight had increased from 650 +/- 15 mg in a group of controls to 778 +/- 21 mg in diabetic rats, and 764 +/- 17 mg in unilaterally nephrectomised rats. The increased weight was in both groups reflected in an increased DNA content and increased RNA/DNA and protein/DNA ratios. In a group of rats made diabetic and nephrectomised at the same time, kidney weight increased to 953 +/- 22 mg after five days. When rats were unilaterally nephrectomised after 20 days of untreated diabetes, compensatory growth was much more pronounced than in non-diabetic rats, kidney weight rising from 780 +/- 21 to 1144 +/- 39 mg in five days. Similarly, in rats with established compensatory renal hypertrophy, diabetes induced a very rapid growth of the remaining kidney (1226 +/- 46 mg after five days).
Immune responses of diabetic animals. Comparison of genetically obese and streptozotocin-diabetic mice.	The blastogenic responses of lymphocytes from chemically-induced (streptozotocin) and genetically-diabetic C57B1/6J (ob/ob) obese mice were assessed using mixed-lymphocyte cultures (MLC) and mitogens selective for thymus-derived (T cell) and bone marrow-derived (B cell) lymphocytes. Splenic lymphocytes from obese and normal C57B1/6 mice exhibited similar responses to the nonspecific T and B cell mitogens, Concanavalin A (Con A) and E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS), respectively. A small (25%) depression of the blastogenic response in MLC was observed for lymphocytes from obese mice. The generation of cytotoxic T cells in vitro in response to trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNP)-modified syngeneic spleen cells was the same for normal and obese mice. In contrast, splenic lymphocytes from 7-14 day streptozotocin-diabetic mice had lower (56-60%) proliferative responses in MLC. The generation of cytotoxic effector cells in vitro was lower for spleen cells for spleen cells from 22-day streptozotocin mice, although blastogenic responses in MLC were not depressed. The insulin-deficient streptozotocin mice appear to have a depression of some thymus-derived cell functions that may be associated with streptozotocin rather than the diabetic state. Direct immunosuppressive effects of streptozotocin are indicated by the marked decrease in the number of lymphocytes in the thymus, lymph nodes, and spleen.
Insulin responsiveness of isolated perfused livers from rats with streptozotocin induced diabetes.	The ability of insulin to inhibit efflux of potassium (K) and amino acid nitrogen (AAN) from perfused livers of normal and insulin deficient rats was studied. Two groups of rats with different degrees of insulin deficiency were produced by injecting varying amounts of streptozotocin. One group, classified as being moderately diabetic (MD), had fasting plasma glucose levels between 235--425 mg%, while the other group, whose plasma glucose levels greater than 425 mg%, were considered to have severe diabetes (SD). Two other groups of rats were food restricted in order to attain body weights comparable to the two groups of diabetic rats, and livers from these animals were used for control perfusions. The results indicated that the ability of insulin to suppress efflux of K and AAN from perfused livers of rats with MD was comparable to that seen in control perfusions. On the other hand, insulin could not suppress the efflux of either K or AAN from perfused livers of rats with SD. These results indicate that normal hepatic responsiveness to insulin can be lost secondary to the production of insulin deficiency.
Irbesartan but not amlodipine suppresses diabetes-associated atherosclerosis.	It remains controversial whether specific blockade of the renin-angiotensin system confers superior antiatherosclerotic effects over other antihypertensive agents in diabetes. Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare equihypotensive doses of the angiotensin II subtype 1 (AT1) receptor blocker irbesartan with the calcium antagonist amlodipine on diabetes-induced plaque formation in the apolipoprotein E (apoE)-null mouse and to explore molecular and cellular mechanisms linked to vascular protection.
Increased endogenous noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y release from the hypothalamus of streptozotocin diabetic rats.	Noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the hypothalamus regulate a number of important endocrine and autonomic functions. Alterations in brain neurotransmitter content have been described in type 1 diabetes but there is little understanding of whether these changes affect neurotransmitter release. This study examined for the first time, region-specific co-release of NPY and noradrenaline from the hypothalamus of male Sprague-Dawley rats treated intravenously with 48 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ) or vehicle. Five weeks later, the release of endogenous noradrenaline and NPY was monitored by in vitro superfusion of ventral and dorsal hypothalamus slices under basal and potassium-stimulated conditions. STZ-diabetes induced significant increases in basal noradrenaline and NPY overflow from the ventral hypothalamus (P<0.05); only NPY overflow was increased in the dorsal hypothalamus (P<0.05). Noradrenaline overflow increased similarly to potassium depolarisation in vehicle and STZ-diabetic rats, whereas diabetic rats showed a significantly increased NPY overflow response to potassium depolarisation compared to vehicle rats. These region-specific increases in endogenous noradrenaline and NPY overflow from the hypothalamus in diabetes suggest increased neuronal activity at rest and enhanced responses under some conditions. Increased hypothalamic NPY and noradrenaline overflow most likely contributes to diabetic hyperphagia.
The anti-hyperglycemic activity of the fruiting body of Cordyceps in diabetic rats induced by nicotinamide and streptozotocin.	Little scientific evidence exists to support the numerous herbs used to improve diabetes-related metabolic disorders. Cordyceps, a Chinese herbal medicine with fruiting body and carcass, has been proposed to have multiple medicinal activities. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of fruiting body and carcass of Cordyceps on hyperglycemia. Male Wistar rats administered with placebo (STZ group), 1 g of fruiting body (FB group), 1 g of carcass (CC group), or 1g of fruiting body plus carcass (CF group) of Cordyceps for four weeks (d1 to d28) were injected with nicotinamide (200 mg/kg) and streptozotocin (65 mg/kg) on d15. Animals fed with placebo and injected with saline acted as the controls (CON group). The results showed that water intake (d15 to d29), changes in fasting blood glucose concentration (d15 to d26), and serum concentrations of fructosamine (d29) were significantly greater in the STZ, CC and CF groups than in the CON and FB groups (one-way ANOVA, P < 0.05). The diabetic rats had significantly lower weight gain and higher blood glucose response in oral glucose tolerance test than the control rats; and these changes were significantly reduced by administrating the fruiting body of Cordyceps. Our results revealed that fruiting body, not carcass, of Cordyceps attenuated the diabetes-induced weight loss, polydipsia and hyperglycemia, and these improvements suggest that fruiting body of Cordyceps has a potential to be the functional food for diabetes.
Gene- and tissue-specific alterations of circadian clock gene expression in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice under restricted feeding.	Circadian clocks are located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus as well as in the peripheral tissues of mammals. Recent molecular studies have revealed that the phase of circadian gene expressions in peripheral clocks could entrain to time-imposed restricted feeding (RF) independently of the SCN. To elucidate whether endogenous insulin is involved in the entraining mechanisms of peripheral clocks to RF, we examined the expression profiles of clock genes in peripheral tissues of mice with diabetes induced by streptozotocin (STZ). The circadian expressing genes (mPer1, mPer2, and BMAL1) underwent a phase-shift induced by RF in the heart, liver, and kidney of both diabetic and normal animals. However, the expression phase of mPer1 in these tissues of the diabetic mice significantly differed from those in the normal animals under RF. The expression phase of the circadian output gene, albumin D-site binding protein (DBP), was completely shifted by RF both in normal and in diabetic mice, suggesting that the endogenous insulin is not essential for the entrainment of peripheral clocks to feeding cycles in mice.
Hybrid liposomes as a drug carrier for the oral administration of insulin in diabetic rats]	It is known that hybrid liposomes composed of dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) and micellar surfactant (Tween 20) are effective for encapsulating drugs and for the treatment of meningeal gliomatosis in vivo without toxicity. In this study, we attempted to use these hybrid liposomes as a drug carrier system for the oral administration of insulin using diabetic model rats. The noteworthy aspects were as follows: (a) The hybrid liposomes of 90 mol% DMPC/10 mol% Tween 20 were stable and uniform for more than 4 weeks. (b) The blood glucose level of diabetic model rats decreased after the oral administration of hybrid liposomes including insulin. These results suggest that the oral administration of hybrid liposomes including insulin should be effective for the treatment of diabetes.
Anti-diabetic potential of Barleria lupulina extract in rats.	We have undertaken a study to evaluate the anti-hyperglycemic effect of a methanol extract of aerial parts of Barleria lupulina Lindl. (Acanthaceae) in streptozotocin-diabetic rats, based on folkloric reports its use as an anti-diabetic agent. The extract exerted significant (p < 0.05) anti-hyperglycemic efficacy at all levels tested from 4 h after its administration, as compared with the control group, and the effect was also prolonged up to 12 h. The extract at doses of 200 mg kg(-1) body wt. and above exhibited a maximum activity (p < 0.001) at 12 h after administration. The most significant activity (15.35% blood glucose reduction) was observed for the group administered 300 mg kg(-1) body wt. at 12 h after administration, while the standard drug glibenclamide (10 mg/kg(-1) body wt.) showed an 18.80% reduction of blood glucose at the same time interval. Based on our current results, it appears that the methanol extract of aerial parts of Barleria lupulina Lindl. shows a pronounced blood-glucose-lowering potential in streptozotocin hyperglycemic rats, and is thus provided with a pharmacological support of the folklore claims of anti-diabetic activity.
Investigations of the methanolic leaf extract of Costus afer. Ker for pharmacological activities in vitro and in vivo.	The methanolic leaf extract of Costus afer. Ker (family: Zingiberaceae) was investigated for some pharmacological effects in vivo and in vitro. Brine shrimp lethality test showed that the extract was significantly (p < 0.05) cytotoxic with LC50 of 21.3 ppm. The extract showed moderate local anesthetic property, about twice less than lignocaine of the same concentration, on guinea pig wheal test. The extract contracted the guinea pig ileum in a concentration-dependent manner, but had no effect on pleuripara and nullipara non-gravid uteri at progestogenic and estrogenic phases respectively. The contractile effect on the guinea pig ileum was partially inhibited by atropine but completely reversed by adrenaline. The extract induced expulsion of whole fetuses still enveloped within the placental membrane at the 3rd trimester of pregnancy. The extract exhibited a biphasic antihyperglycemic activity. At 200 mg/kg body wt., p.o., it decreased the blood glucose level by 50% in Streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia in male rats in 60 minutes post dosing. However, doses above 200 mg/kg body wt., p.o., caused increase in blood glucose level, potentiating the action of STZ. At 10 microg/ml the extract induced about 98% glucose uptake in differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes when compared with insulin (340 nm).
Heightened pain and delayed regeneration of galanin axons in diabetic mice.	Galanin peptide in primary sensory neurons may confer analgesia following injury. Its presence in regenerative axon sprouts where pain may be initiated has not been examined. We examined very early outgrowth of peptidergic axon sprouts after sciatic nerve crush in mice with experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Diabetic mice had a retarded wave of outgrowing galanin axons, but those expressing calcitonin gene-related peptide grew normally. Diabetic mice also developed early, then persistent excessive autotomy behaviour, an index of pain behaviour in complete nerve lesions. Diabetes is associated with variations in the early outgrowth of peptide-containing axons. A relative delay in galanin axon outgrowth could contribute to heightened neuropathic pain in diabetes.
Evaluation of toxicity after one-months treatment with Bauhinia forficata decoction in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Previous experiments have shown that a decoction of Bauhinia forficata leaves reduces the changes in carbohydrate and protein metabolism that occur in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. In the present investigation, the serum activities of enzymes known to be reliable toxicity markers were monitored in normal and streptozotocin-diabetic rats to discover whether the use of B. forficata decoction has toxic effects on liver, muscle or pancreas tissue or on renal microcirculation.
Use of the Gttingen minipig as a model of diabetes, with special focus on type 1 diabetes research.	Animal models of type 1 diabetes remain essential tools for investigation of the etiology and pathogenesis of the disease and, importantly, for the development of effective new treatments. Although a range of well-characterized and widely used models of type 1 diabetes in rodents are currently available, large animal models are a valuable complement to rodent models for both physiological and practical reasons. The pig is very useful in many aspects as a model for human physiology and pathophysiology because many organ systems of this species, as well as physiological and pathophysiological responses, resemble those of the human. The Gttingen minipig is particularly suitable for long-term studies because of its inherent small size and ease of handling, even at full maturity. Of particular relevance to the field of type 1 diabetes are the many similarities evident between humans and pigs with regard to pharmacokinetics of compounds after subcutaneous administration, structure and function of the gastrointestinal tract, morphology of the pancreas, and the overall metabolic status of the two species. Because spontaneous type 1-like diabetes is very rare in pigs, a model of the condition must be induced experimentally, either surgically or chemically. This process is discussed, and the use of the pig as a model in islet transplantation and diabetic complications is briefly summarized.
Nonhuman primate models for islet transplantation in type 1 diabetes research.	Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is an autoimmune disease that causes a progressive destruction of the pancreatic beta cells. As a result, the patient requires exogenous insulin to maintain normal blood glucose levels. Both the pancreas and the islets of Langerhans have been transplanted successfully in humans and in animal models, resulting in full normalization of glucose homeostasis. However, insulin independence, transient or persistent, was documented in only a small fraction of cases until recently. The chronic immunosuppression required to avoid immunological rejection appears to be toxic to the islets and adds the risk of lymphoproliferative disease reported earlier. For islet transplantation to become the method of choice, it is essential first to identify islet-friendly immunosuppressive regimens and/or to develop methods that induce donor-specific tolerance and improve islet isolation and transplantation protocols. Indeed, researchers have already successfully allografted islets in the presence of nonsteroidal immunosuppression in a process known as the Edmonton protocol. An alternative method, gene therapy, could replace these other methods and better meet the insulin requirement of an individual without requiring pancreatic or islet transplantation. This alternative, however, requires animal models to develop and test clinical protocols and to demonstrate the feasibility of preclinical trials. Nonhuman primates are ideally suited to achieve these goals. The efforts toward developing a nonhuman primate diabetic model with demonstrable insulin dependence are discussed and include pancreatic and islet transplant trials to reverse the diabetic state and achieve insulin independence. Also described are the various protocols that have been tested in primates to circumvent immunosuppression by using tolerance induction strategies in lieu of immunosuppression, thus exploring the field of donor-specific tolerance that extends beyond islet transplantation.
Nonhuman primate models in type 1 diabetes research.	The recent success of "steroid-free" immunosuppressive protocols and improvements in islet preparation techniques have proven that pancreatic islet transplantation (PIT) is a valid therapeutic approach for patients with type 1 diabetes. However, there are major obstacles to overcome before PIT can become a routine therapeutic procedure, such as the need for chronic immunosuppression, the loss of functional islet mass after transplantation requiring multiple islet infusion to achieve euglycemia without exogenous administration of insulin, and the shortage of human tissue for transplantation. With reference to the first obstacle, stable islet allograft function without immunosuppressive therapy has been achieved after tolerance was induced in diabetic primates. With reference to the second obstacle, different strategies, including gene transfer of antiapoptotic genes, have been used to protect isolated islets before and after transplantation. With reference to the third obstacle, pigs are an attractive islet source because they breed rapidly, there is a long history of porcine insulin use in humans, and there is the potential for genetic engineering. To accomplish islet transplantation, experimental opportunities must be balanced by complementary characteristics of basic mouse and rat models and preclinical large animal models. Well-designed preclinical studies in primates can provide the quality of information required to translate islet transplant research safely into clinical transplantation.
Hypoglycaemic effect of Calamintha officinalis Moench. in normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of a water extract from the aerial parts of Calamintha officinalis Moench., after either a single dose or daily oral administration for 15 days, on plasma blood glucose concentrations and basal insulin levels in normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (STZ diabetic rats). The results clearly demonstrated the hypoglycaemic effect of this plant extract in both normal and STZ diabetic rats. In addition, no changes were observed in basal plasma insulin concentrations after treatment with this plant in normal or STZ diabetic rats, indicating that the underlying mechanism of the plant's pharmacological action seems to be independent of insulin secretion. We conclude that the aqueous C. officinalis extract exhibits a significant hypoglycaemic effect in normal and STZ diabetic rats without affecting basal plasma insulin concentrations, and supports, therefore, its traditional use by the Moroccan population.
alpha-Lipoic acid ameliorates altered colonic contractility and intestinal transit in STZ-diabetic rats.	alpha-Lipoic acid treatment (100 mg/kg/day for 2 weeks after 6 weeks of untreated diabetes) of streptozotocin diabetic rats partially but significantly reversed both reduced contractile response of distal colon to acetylcholine and delayed transit of charcoal meal in small intestine compared to diabetic control. These effects of alpha-Lipoic acid were associated with complete reversal of diabetes induced increased plasma lipid peroxidation level. alpha-Lipoic acid had no effect on any of the parameters measured in non-diabetic rats. These findings demonstrate contribution of oxidative stress in the development of physiological changes of gut in diabetes.
Hypoglycemic activity of Withania coagulans Dunal in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats.	Administration of aqueous extract of fruits of Withania coagulans Dunal significantly lowered the blood sugar, serum cholesterol, serum LPO, and hepatic LPO levels at the highest concentration of 1g/kg; p.o. in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. In normal rats as well the blood sugar levels were significantly decreased following treatment with the above drug. Withania coagulans also exhibited free radical scavenging activity in an in vitro system using DPPH.
Hypoglycemic activity of inorganic constituents in Eugenia jambolana seed on streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.	Medicinal herbs used in indigenous medicines for the management of diabetes mellitus contain both organic and inorganic constituents. Some of these inorganic trace elements possess antidiabetic properties, which accounts for the activity of medicinal herbs. The aim of this study was to analyze the inorganic trace elements present in Eugenia jambolana seeds and to evaluate the hypoglycemic activity of the inorganic part of E. jambolana seeds on streptozotocin-induced diabetes. The seeds of E. jambolana seeds were reduced to ash and the inorganic elements present were assayed. The hypoglycemic efficacy of the inorganic part was tested by the glucose tolerance test on streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Elements such as zinc, chromium, vanadium, potassium, and sodium, possessing hypoglycemic activity, were present in the seed. The E. jambolana seed ash-treated diabetic rats exhibited normoglycemia and better glucose tolerance. The conclusion that the inorganic constituents might play a important role in the antidiabetic nature E. jambolana seeds was reached.
Dominant negative 14-3-3 promotes cardiomyocyte apoptosis in early stage of type I diabetes mellitus through activation of JNK.	14-3-3 family members are dimeric, phosphoserine binding proteins that regulate signal transduction, apoptotic, and checkpoint control pathways. Recently, cardiomyocyte apoptosis has been characterized in type I diabetes mellitus. In order to study the molecular mechanism underlying diabetes-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis, we examined the role of 14-3-3 protein and MAPK pathways in transgenic mice with cardiac specific expression of dominant negative 14-3-3eta (DN-14-3-3). p38 MAPK was highly activated 1, 28, and 56 days after diabetes induction by streptozotocin, whereas peak JNK activation was found on day 3 and decreased afterwards. In contrast, ERK1/2 were not activated in diabetic myocardium. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis was peaked on day 3 and decreased on 7, 28, and 56 days. p38 MAPK and JNK activation as well as cardiomyocyte apoptosis were greatly increased in DN-14-3-3 mice relative to non-transgenic mice. Moreover, we found a significant correlation between JNK activation and apoptosis in diabetic myocardium. These results indicate for the first time that 14-3-3 protein plays a critical anti-apoptotic role in diabetic myocardium by inhibiting the JNK pathway.
Activation of cell death pathway after a brief period of global ischemia in diabetic and non-diabetic animals.	Mitochondria play a critical role in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia. Acute hyperglycemia has been shown to activate the mitochondria-initiated cell death pathway after an intermediate period of ischemia. The objective of the present study was to determine if diabetic hyperglycemia induced by streptozotocin activates the cell death pathway after a brief period of global ischemia. Five minutes of global ischemia was induced in nondiabetic and diabetic rats. Brain samples were collected after 30 min, 6 h, 1, 3, and 7 days of recirculation as well as from sham-operated controls. Histopathological examination in the hippocampal CA1, CA3, hilus, and dentate gyrus regions, as well as in the cortical and thalamic areas, showed that neuronal death in diabetic animals increased compared to nondiabetic ischemic controls. Neuronal damage maturation occurred after 7 days of recovery in nondiabetic rats, while it was shortened to 3 days of recovery in diabetic animals. Western blot analyses revealed that release of cytochrome c markedly increased after 1 and 3 days of reperfusion in diabetic rats. Caspase-3 activation was evident in the nuclear fraction of the cortex of diabetic rats after 3 days recovery and it was preceded by activation of caspase-9, but not activation of caspase-8. Electron microscopy demonstrated that chromatin condensation and mitochondrial swelling were features of the diabetes-mediated ischemic neuronal damage. However, no apoptotic bodies were observed in any sections examined. These results suggest that a brief period of global ischemia in diabetic animals activates a neuronal cell death pathway involving cytochrome c release, caspase-9 activation, and caspase-3 cleavage, all of which are most likely initiated by early mitochondria damage.
Effect of new and known 1,4-dihydropyridine derivatives on blood glucose levels in normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Analysis of the effect of several 1,4-DHP Ca(2+) channel antagonists on experimental and clinical diabetes shows that structurally similar Ca(2+) channel antagonists can exert opposite effects on Ca(2+) influx, glucose homeostasis and insulin secretion. The influence of the Ca(2+) channel antagonists on pancreatic beta cell functions is dependent on lipophilicity, interactions with the cell membrane lipid bilayer, with SNAREs protein complexes in cell and vesicle membranes, with intracellular receptors, bioavailability and time of elimination from several organs and the bloodstream. In the present work we studied the effect at several doses of new compounds synthesized in the Latvian Institute of Organic Synthesis on blood glucose levels in normal and STZ-induced diabetic rats. The compounds tested were: 1,4-DHP derivatives cerebrocrast (1), etaftoron (2), OSI-1190 (3), OSI-3802 (4), OSI-2954 (5) and known 1,4-DHP derivatives: niludipine (6), nimodipine (7) and nicardipine (8) which possess different lipophilicities. Analysis of the structure-function relationships of the effect of 1,4-DHP derivatives on glucose metabolism showed that cerebrocrast could evoke qualitative differences in activity. Insertion of an OCHF(2) group in position 2 of the 4-phenylsubstituent and propoxyethylgroup R in ester moieties in positions 3 and 5 of the DHP structure, as well as an increase in the number of carbon atoms in the ester moiety, significantly modified the properties of the compound. Thereby cerebrocrast acquired high lipophilicity and membranotropic properties. Cerebrocrast, in a single administration at low doses (0.05 and 0.5 mg x kg(-1), p.o.), significantly decreased the plasma level of glucose in normal rats and in STZ-induced diabetic rats returned plasma glucose to basal levels. This effect was characterized by a slow onset and a powerful long-lasting influence on glucose metabolism, especially in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
Effect of niceritrol on streptozocin-induced diabetic neuropathy in rats.	Niceritrol, a drug with peripheral tissue vasodilatory and serum lipid-lowering activity, was administered for 2 mo to rats with streptozocin-induced diabetes. Physiological and biochemical studies were subsequently conducted on rat nerve tissue. A markedly lower value of approximately 47% in sciatic nerve blood flow (SNBF) was detected in an untreated diabetic (DC) group than in a nondiabetic control group (CC). A significant delay in caudal motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) and significantly higher glucose, sorbitol, and fructose values were observed in the sciatic nerve and serum lipids. In contrast, a niceritrol-treated diabetic (DN) group had significantly higher SNBF, MNCV, and sciatic nerve myo-inositol values and lower serum triglyceride levels than group DC. No differences between these two groups were noted in glucose, sorbitol, and fructose levels in the sciatic nerve, or in cholesterol and glucose in serum. These findings suggest that niceritrol has a clear inhibitory effect on the development of delayed MNCV in the diabetic rat, which may be due to reduced nerve blood flow and/or decreased nerve myo-inositol levels.
Impaired hepatic apolipoprotein B and E translation in streptozotocin diabetic rats.	Studies of streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats have demonstrated that hepatic apo B and apo E production are reduced. To determine if reductions are related to decreases in hepatic mRNAs, we performed blotting analysis of total liver RNA with rat apo B, apo E, and albumin cDNA probes. The expected reduction in albumin mRNA levels to 48% of control livers occurred in diabetic rat liver, while apo B and apo E mRNA levels were unchanged. The proportion of translational stop codon (BSTOP) mRNA averaged 43% of total in diabetic rats similar to control levels. Long-term labeling experiments using [35S]methionine in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes and specific immunoprecipitations demonstrated production of apo B and apo E, and albumin by hepatocytes from diabetic rats was reduced to 37%, 53%, and 23% of controls. Pulse-chase studies, together with mRNA analyses, suggest that reduced hepatic secretion of apo B and apo E in diabetics is primarily a result of impaired translation and not intracellular degradation. Ribosome transit studies directly confirmed the prolonged elongation rates for apo B and apo E mRNAs in hepatocytes derived from diabetic rats. This effect was more pronounced on apo BH (higher molecular weight) than on apo BL (lower molecular weight). Treatment of diabetic rats with insulin for 7 d led to normalization of hepatic albumin mRNA levels with no substantial change in apo E mRNA levels. In contrast, insulin treatment resulted in significant increases in hepatic apo B mRNA over control levels. Results suggest hepatic albumin and apo B mRNA levels are responsive to insulin in the diabetic state.
The influence of streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus on the sensitivity of rat urinary bladder body and base strips to changes in extracellular calcium.	1. The influence of calcium on contractile responses of bladders from control and 2 month streptozotocin-diabetic rats was investigated. 2. Removal of calcium from the bathing medium caused rapid decreases in the contractile responses of bladder body and base strips to carbachol. The responses of strips from control rats were reduced more by calcium removal than were strips from diabetics. 3. Replacement of calcium caused dose-dependent increases in contraction to carbachol. The responses of bladder body strips from diabetic rats to carbachol were significantly greater at all calcium concentrations than were those of controls. There were no differences in the responsiveness of bladder base strips to carbachol. 4. In contrast, bladder body strips from diabetic rats were more sensitive to calcium than were strips from controls, with an IC50 value for calcium of 0.38 mM vs 0.72 mM for controls. 5. At the calcium concentration of Krebs buffer (2.5 mM), contractile responses were near maximal, and there were no differences in sensitivity. 6. The calcium antagonist nifedipine caused dose-dependent decreases in the contractile responses of bladder base and body strips to nerve stimulation. The responses to nerve stimulation were more sensitive to nifedipine than were those to carbachol. There were no differences between controls and diabetics in the sensitivity of bladder strips to nifedipine. 7. The findings suggest that although increases in sensitivity to calcium are observed in bladder body strips from streptozotocin-diabetic rats, they are unlikely to be responsible for the increases in maximal contractile response to nerve stimulation and contractile agents.
Modelling cortical cataractogenesis. XII: Supplemental vitamin A treatment reduces gamma-crystallin leakage from lenses in diabetic rats.	Normal and streptozotocin diabetic female Wistar rats were given normal diets with the following additions: 0, or 12,500 iu/kg food vitamin A (retinyl palmitate). At the end of 6 weeks, the rats were examined for weight gain or loss, general body condition, and cataracts. At sacrifice, blood was collected for measurement of serum glucose. gamma-Crystallin levels were determined in aqueous and vitreous humours using a radioimmunoassay. One lens (the right) was homogenized in 8 M guanidinium chloride for ATP analysis. In normal rats, gamma-crystallin was detected in both aqueous and vitreous humours, with a greater concentration found in the vitreous. Diabetes caused a 4-5 fold increase in gamma-crystallin in both aqueous and vitreous humours. Diabetes also led to a significant loss of body weight, and decrease in lens ATP levels. Addition of vitamin A to the diet resulted in reduction in gamma-crystallin leakage into the aqueous and vitreous humours. Vitamin A at 12,500 iu/kg food resulted in an increase in lens ATP for the diabetic rats. Neither streptozotocin diabetes nor vitamin A in the diet appeared to affect the weight of the lenses after 6 weeks. It is suggested that childhood vitamin A deficiency leading to latent fiber cell damage may be an important factor contributing to the high incidence of cataracts in the third world.
Tetracycline administration increases collagen synthesis in osteoblasts of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats: a quantitative autoradiographic study.	Streptozotocin-induced, insulin-deficient diabetic rats were administrated either minocycline (MC) or a chemically modified non-antimicrobial tetracycline (CMT) by oral gavage for a 3-week period; untreated diabetic and nondiabetic rats served as controls. On day 21, all rats received an intravenous injection of 3H-proline followed by perfusion fixation with an aldehyde mixture at 20 minutes and 4 hours after isotope injection. The parietal bones of these rats were dissected and processed for quantitative electron microscopic autoradiography to study 3H-proline utilization by osteoblasts. At 20 minutes after 3H-proline injection, radioprecursor was incorporated by the Golgi-RER system of the osteoblasts in the periosteal surface of the control rats. At the 4-hour time period, most of the label was present over the collagen fibers of the osteoid. In contrast, the flattened bone-lining cells in the untreated diabetic rats showed minimal uptake (20 minutes) and secretion (4 hours) of labeled proline. In both MC and CMT-treated diabetic rats, the radioprecursor was localized in the osteoblasts and osteoid matrix in a pattern similar to that seen in the control rats at both 20 minutes and 4 hours after isotope injection. Labeling of the osteoid by the radioprecursor was greater as a result of CMT treatment than during minocycline treatment. These results suggest that the diabetes-induced suppression of synthesis and secretion of protein (presumably collagen and its precursor) by osteoblasts can be restored to near-normal levels by administration of tetracycline(s) and that this effect is mediated by a non-antimicrobial property of these antibiotics.
Demonstration of inhibitory guanine nucleotide regulatory protein (Gi) function in liver and hepatocyte membranes from streptozotocin-treated rats.	By using a defined plasma-membrane preparation, functional inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity by the inhibitory G-protein (Gi) was observed in liver and hepatocyte membranes from rats made diabetic by streptozotocin. These observations contrast with previous reports which have shown a defect in Gi in this diabetic animal model. These results suggest that Gi function is not impaired in the livers of streptozotocin-treated rats and that plasma-membrane preparation procedures should be clearly defined before ascribing Gi defects to a pathological state such as diabetes.
Glycaemia regulates the glucose transporter number in the plasma membrane of rat skeletal muscle.	The number of glucose transporters was measured in isolated membranes from diabetic-rat skeletal muscle to determine the role of circulating blood glucose levels in the control of glucose uptake into skeletal muscle. Three experimental groups of animals were investigated in the post-absorptive state: normoglycaemic/normoinsulinaemic, hyperglycaemic/normoinsulinaemic and hyperglycaemic/normoinsulinaemic made normoglycaemic/normoinsulinaemic by phlorizin treatment. Hyperglycaemia caused a reversible decrease in total transporter number, as measured by cytochalasin B binding, in both plasma membranes and internal membranes of skeletal muscle. Changes in GLUT4 glucose transporter protein mirrored changes in cytochalasin B binding in plasma membranes. However, there was no recovery of GLUT4 levels in intracellular membranes with correction of glycaemia. GLUT4 mRNA levels decreased with hyperglycaemia and recovered only partially with correction of glycaemia. Conversely, GLUT1 glucose transporters were only detectable in the plasma membranes; the levels of this protein varied directly with glycaemia, i.e. in the opposite direction to GLUT4 glucose transporters. This study demonstrates that hyperglycaemia, in the absence of hypoinsulinaemia, is capable of down-regulating the glucose transport system in skeletal muscle, the major site of peripheral resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose transport in diabetes. Furthermore, correction of hyperglycaemia causes a complete restoration of the transport system in the basal state (determined by the transporter number in the plasma membrane), but possibly only an incomplete recovery of the transport system's ability to respond to insulin (since there is no recovery of GLUT4 levels in the intracellular membrane insulin-responsive transporter pool). Finally, the effect of hyperglycaemia is specific for glucose transporter isoforms, with GLUT1 and GLUT4 proteins varying respectively in parallel and opposite directions to levels of glycaemia.
Divergent regulation of the Glut 1 and Glut 4 glucose transporters in isolated adipocytes from Zucker rats.	We have studied the relationship between glucose uptake rate and Glut 1 and Glut 4 protein and mRNA levels per fat cell in lean (FA/FA) and obese (fa/fa) Zucker rats at 5, 10, and 20 wk of age, and after induction of acute diabetes with streptozotocin. 5 wk obese rats exhibit insulin hyperresponsive glucose uptake, whereas 20 wk obese rats show insulin resistant glucose uptake. The relative abundance of Glut 1 and Glut 4 mRNA and protein per equal amount of total RNA and total membrane protein, respectively, is lower in adipocytes from obese rats. However, at all ages the enlargement of fat cells from obese rats is accompanied by a severalfold increase in total RNA and total membrane protein per cell. Thus, on a cellular basis, mRNA and protein levels of Glut 4 increases in young obese rats and gradually declines as a function of age. Basal glucose uptake is increased severalfold in fat cells from obese rats, and in parallel Glut 1 expression per cell in obese rats is two- to threefold increased over lean rats at all ages. Acute diabetes in 20 wk obese rats causes a profound downregulation of glucose uptake and a concomitant reduction of both Glut 1 and Glut 4 protein levels. Thus, changes in Glut 4 expression are a major cause of alteration in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake of adipocytes during evolution of obesity and diabetes in Zucker rats.
Atrial natriuretic peptide and prostacyclin synergistically mediate hyperfiltration and hyperperfusion of diabetic rats.	The relative contribution of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and vasodilatory prostaglandins to hyperfiltration in Wistar rats with experimental diabetes was studied 6-8 wk after streptozocin injection. Plasma levels of immunoreactive ANP were significantly higher (P less than 0.01) in hyperglycemic diabetic (72.9 +/- 11.7 pg/ml) than in normoglycemic diabetic (44.8 +/- 8.6 pg/ml) or nondiabetic (40.0 +/- 6.8 pg/ml) rats. Blocking endogenous ANP by specific ANP-antiserum infusion reduced significantly (P less than 0.01) glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF) of hyperglycemic rats compared with preinfusion values (1.23 +/- 0.06-1.02 +/- 0.04; 2.87 +/- 0.25-2.40 +/- 0.10 ml.min-1.100 g-1, respectively). However, correction of hyperfiltration and hyperperfusion was only partial (nondiabetic rats GFR 0.85 +/- 0.07; RPF 2.27 +/- 0.13 ml.min-1.100 g-1). Because diabetic rats with hyperglycemia also had an increased urinary excretion of prostacyclin metabolite 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (220.6 +/- 62.8 ng/24 h) compared with nondiabetic rats (51.2 +/- 2.7 ng/24 h), we wondered whether excessive prostacyclin formation contributed to hyperfiltration and hyperperfusion in this setting. Indomethacin infusion partially reduced GFR (1.25 +/- 0.07 to 1.06 +/- 0.07 ml.min-1.100 g-1, P less than 0.05) and RPF (2.85 +/- 0.11 to 2.46 +/- 0.12 ml.min-1.100 g-1, P less than 0.01) in diabetic rats. The combined infusion of ANP antiserum and indomethacin normalized GFR and RPF in diabetic rats with hyperglycemia (1.27 +/- 0.05 to 0.88 +/- 0.05 and 2.84 +/- 0.10 to 2.22 +/- 0.06 ml.min-1.100 g-1, respectively; P less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Beta-cell function and islet morphology in normal, obese, and obese beta-cell mass-reduced Gttingen minipigs.	Herein, we bridge beta-cell function and morphology in minipigs. We hypothesized that different aspects of beta-cell dysfunction are present in obesity and obesity with reduced beta-cell mass by using pulsatile insulin secretion as an early marker. Measures for beta-cell function (glucose and arginine stimulation plus baseline and glucose-entrained pulsatile insulin secretion) and islet morphology were studied in long-term (19-20 mo) obese (n = 5) and obese beta-cell-reduced [nicotinamide + streptozotocin (STZ), n = 5] minipigs and normal controls, representing different stages in the development toward type 2 diabetes. Acute insulin response (AIR) to glucose and arginine were, surprisingly, normal in obese (0.3 g/kg glucose: AIR = 246 +/- 119 vs. 255 +/- 61 pM in control; 67 mg/kg arginine: AIR = 230 +/- 124 vs. 214 +/- 85 pM in control) but reduced in obese-STZ animals (0.3 g/kg glucose: AIR = 22 +/- 36, P < 0.01; arginine: AIR = 87 +/- 92 pM, P < 0.05 vs. control). Baseline pulsatile insulin secretion was reduced in obese (59 +/- 16 vs. 76 +/- 16% in control, P < 0.05) and more so in obese-STZ animals (43 +/- 13%, P < 0.01), whereas regularity during entrainment was increased in obese animals (approximate entropy: 0.85 +/- 0.14 vs. 1.13 +/- 0.13 in control, P < 0.01). Beta-cell mass (mg/kg body wt) was normal in obese and reduced in obese-STZ animals, with pancreatic fat infiltration in both groups. In conclusion, obesity and insulin resistance are not linked with a general reduction of beta-cell function, but dynamics of insulin secretion are perturbed. The data suggest a sequence in the development of beta-cell dysfunction, with the three groups representing stages in the progression from normal physiology to diabetes, and assessment of pulsatility as the single most sensitive marker of beta-cell dysfunction.
Dual effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on angiogenesis in type 1 diabetic mice.	We analyzed the beneficial therapeutic effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) on both retinal and hind limb neovascularization in diabetic mice.
The effect of PDE5 inhibition on the erectile function in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	The aim of this study was to assess the effect of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor, DA-8159, on erectile function throughout the quantitative analysis of vascular endothelial cell, smooth muscle (SM), TGF-beta1 expression in rat corpus cavernosum and measurement of intracavernous pressure (ICP) in diabetic rats. DA-8159 (0, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg) was administered orally once a day to diabetic rats. After 8 weeks, immunohistochemistry and computerized image analysis were performed to quantify the percent area within the Corpora Cavernosa occupied by the endothelial cells, SM cells and fibrotic tissues. ICP/mean arterial pressure (MAP) was also measured by electrostimulation of the cavernous nerve. Diabetic rats showed a significant decrease in the SM and endothelial cell content, and an increase in the TGF-beta1 expression level within the cavernosa areas compared to the normal rats. The mean cavernous SM, endothelial cell content and TGF-beta1 expression level were 9.7+/-0.7, 4.5+/-0.7 and 17.9+/-2.1%, respectively. DA-8159 prevented reduction of SM (12.3+/-0.4% (5 mg/kg), 13.8+/-0.4% (20 mg/kg)) and endothelial cell content (5.6+/-0.5% (5 mg/kg), 6.3+/-0.6% (20 mg/kg)). Immunoreactivity of TGF-beta1 and intracorporal fibrosis were also significantly lower in DA-8159-treated groups (11.8+/-1.2% (5 mg/kg), 9.5+/-1.1% (20 mg/kg)). Electrostimulation of the cavernous nerve induced significant increase in maximum ICP (62.2+/-13.6 mmHg in 10 mg/kg vs 37.5+/-17.5 mmHg in diabetic group) and area under the curve of the ratio of ICP/MAP (8891.09+/-1957 in 10 mg/kg vs 6315.87+/-2272 in diabetic group). These results suggest that subchronic treatment of DA-8159 can prevent the development of erectile dysfunction (ED), and provides a rationale for the use of DA-8159 as treatment of diabetic ED.
Caspase signalling in neuropathic and inflammatory pain in the rat.	Whereas small-fibre sensory neuropathies might ultimately lead to cell death and loss of sensation, they first progress through a phase, which might last for years, characterized by the presence of analgesia-resistant neuropathic dysesthesias and pain. Much previous research has addressed these two phases as separate phenomena mediated by presumably discrete biochemical mechanisms. We hypothesized that activity in signalling pathways that ultimately lead to apoptosis plays a critical role in the generation of neuropathic pain, before death of sensory neurons becomes apparent. We have tested the hypothesis that activator and effector caspases, defining components of programmed cell death (apoptosis) signalling pathways, also contribute to pain-related behaviour in animals with small-fibre peripheral neuropathies and that the death receptor ligand, tumour necrosis factor-alpha, and its downstream second messenger, ceramide, also produce pain-related behaviour via this mechanism. In two models of painful peripheral neuropathy, HIV/AIDS therapy (induced by the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dideoxycytidine), and cancer chemotherapy (induced by vincristine) peripheral neuropathy, and for pain-related behaviour induced by tumour necrosis factor-alpha and its second messenger, ceramide, inhibition of both activator (1, 2, 8 and 9) and effector (3) caspases attenuates neuropathic pain-related behaviour, although has no effect in streptozotocin-diabetic neuropathy and control rats. We conclude that during a latent phase, before apoptotic cell death is manifest, the caspase signalling pathway can contribute to pain in small-fibre peripheral neuropathies, and that inflammatory/immune mediators also activate these pathways. This suggests that these pathways are potential targets for novel pharmacological agents for the treatment of inflammatory as well as neuropathic pain.
Sympathetic modulation of the renal glucose transporter GLUT2 in diabetic rats.	We have previously shown that the abolition of renal sympathetic nervous activity (RSNA) can influence cortical GLUT1 expression in diabetic rats. However, no study has examined the effects of nervous activity on expression of GLUT2, the major glucose transporter in proximal renal tubules, which participates in renal glucose handling. The aim of this study was to determine whether sympathetic activity modulates renal GLUT2 content. We studied diabetic and nondiabetic rats with normal, low, or high RSNA. The low-RSNA experiment used four groups of Wistar male rats: Wistar sham-operated, Wistar renal-denervated, Diabetic sham-operated, and Diabetic renal-denervated. The high-RSNA experiment used four groups of Wistar-Kyoto male rats: WKY (control), WKY-Diabetic, SHR (spontaneously hypertensive rats), and SHR-Diabetic. Renal denervation was confirmed by a decrease in intrarenal norepinephrine levels and sympathetic hyperactivity, by measurement of RSNA. Western blotting was used to determine the renal cortical GLUT2 protein content, and 24-h urinary sodium and glucose levels were also evaluated. Compared with controls (Wistar and WKY), diabetes increased the GLUT2 protein content in normal-RSNA Diabetics (47%) and WKY-Diabetics (83%). The renal denervation-induced decrease in RSNA reduced the GLUT2 content in both normal and diabetic rats (-21% and -15%, respectively). Compared to WKY rats, SHR presented elevated RSNA and also showed an increase in renal GLUT2 content (17%). Diabetes caused a major increase in GLUT2 protein (52%) in the SHR. These results demonstrate a direct relationship between RSNA and GLUT2 levels; they also reveal an additive effect of sympathetic hyperactivity and diabetes on GLUT2 expression, suggesting a new mechanism for modulating protein expression in renal tissue.
beta-Adrenergic activation reveals impaired cardiac calcium handling at early stage of diabetes.	Cardiac function is known to be impaired in diabetes. Alterations in intracellular calcium handling have been suggested to play a pivotal role. This study aimed to test the hypothesis that beta-adrenergic activation can reveal the functional derangements of intracellular calcium handling of the 4-week diabetic heart. Langendorff perfused hearts of 4-week streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were subjected to the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol. Cyclic changes in [Ca(2+)](i) levels were measured throughout the cardiac cycle using Indo-1 fluorescent dye. Based on the computational analysis of the [Ca(2+)](i) transient the kinetic parameters of the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase and the ryanodine receptor were determined by minimizing the squared error between the simulated and the experimentally obtained [Ca(2+)](i) transient. Under unchallenged conditions, hemodynamic parameters were comparable between control and diabetic hearts. Isoproterenol administration stimulated hemodynamic function to a greater extent in control than in diabetic hearts, which was exemplified by more pronounced increases in rate of pressure development and decline. Under unchallenged conditions, [Ca(2+)](i) amplitude and rate of rise and decline of [Ca(2+)](i) as measured throughout the cardiac cycle were comparable between diabetic and control hearts. Differences became apparent under beta-adrenoceptor stimulation. Upon beta-activation the rate-pressure product showed a blunted response, which was accompanied by a diminished rise in [Ca(2+)](i) amplitude in diabetic hearts. Computational analysis revealed a reduced function of the sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-release channel in response to beta-adrenoceptor challenge. Alterations in Ca(2+)(i) handling may play a causative role in depressed hemodynamic performance of the challenged heart at an early stage of diabetes.
Structural changes in the renal vasculature in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats without hypertension.	We evaluated in diabetic-streptozotocin rats (STZR) the structural changes of glomeruli, preglomerular vessels, glomerular tuft and renal parenchyma in order to determine the degree of renal injury and the presence of remodeling in afferent arterioles developed by diabetes without overimposed hypertension.
P-Cadherin is decreased in diabetic glomeruli and in glucose-stimulated podocytes in vivo and in vitro studies.	Proteinuria is a cardinal feature of glomerular disease, including diabetic nephropathy, and the glomerular filtration barrier acts as a filter, restricting protein excretion in urine. We tested whether the expression of P-cadherin, a molecule known to be located at the slit diaphragm, was altered by diabetes in vivo and by high glucose in vitro.
Transient expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha and target genes in peripheral nerves from diabetic rats.	Decreased blood flow is one of the earliest physiological changes observed after the onset of either clinical or experimental diabetes. The reduction in blood flow is believed to lead to nerve hypoxia, which in conjunction with other metabolic alterations and degenerative processes in different nerve compartments, results in the dysfunction known as diabetic neuropathy. The transcriptional regulator hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) accumulates rapidly under hypoxic conditions and modulates the expression of several target genes that protect tissues against ischemia and infarction. At present it is unclear whether diabetic nerve injury results from an abnormal response of HIF-1alpha and its protective target genes. In the present study we have analyzed the expression and activity of HIF-1alpha and its target genes in diabetic nerves as a first step to determine their possible contribution to the development or maintenance of diabetic neuropathy. We observed a transient increase in the expression of HIF-1alpha that peaked between 4 and 6 weeks and declined 8 weeks after induction of experimental diabetes in rats. The increase in HIF-1alpha in diabetic nerves coincided with a similarly transient increase in the expression of several HIF-1alpha target genes including vascular endothelial growth factor, lactate dehydrogenase and erythropoietin, which subsided 8-10 weeks after induction of diabetes. These results suggest that the transient activation of neurotrophic and angiogenic genes, as opposed to a more sustained effect in response to the chronic injury, may be responsible for the alterations in nerve function and regeneration that characterize the diabetic neuropathy.
C-peptide prevents glomerular hypertrophy and mesangial matrix expansion in diabetic rats.	There is accumulating evidence that C-peptide exerts beneficial renal effects in type-1 diabetes by reducing glomerular hyperfiltration, albuminuria and glomerular hypertrophy in the early stage of nephropathy. The aim of this study was to clarify further the effects of C-peptide on renal structural changes in type-1 diabetic rats.
Comparative analysis of the renoprotective effects of pentoxifylline and vitamin E on streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus.	Oxidative stress (OxS) induced by diabetes plays an important role in the development of diabetic nephropathy. Studies have shown that antioxidants are beneficial in its reduction. Vitamin E has been documented as providing the most improvement in the antioxidative status. Recently, pentoxifylline (PTX) has been proposed to have antioxidant properties.
Effect of targeted disruption of signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)4 and Stat6 genes on the autoimmune diabetes development induced by multiple low doses of streptozotocin.	The MLDS (multiple low doses of streptozotocin) model of diabetes was induced in Stat4(-/-), Stat6(-/-), and double-deficient Stat4(-/-)/6(-/-) mice to examine the role of STAT4/STAT6 deficiency in development of autoimmune diabetes. Cytokine production of T-cells from Stat4(-/-) mice confirmed a predominantly Th2-type immune response. Stat4(-/-) mice exhibited delayed onset and reduced severity of disease compared to wild-type (WT) mice. In contrast, STAT6 deficiency, with a predominant Th1 response, did not influence the kinetics or severity of MLDS-induced autoimmune diabetes. Interestingly, Stat4(-/-)/6(-/-) mice, with a prominent Th1-type response, experienced an accelerated and aggravated course of diabetes after MLDS, implicating a STAT4-independent Th1 response in the immunopathogenesis of MLDS-induced autoimmune diabetes. The sensitivity of islet cells from Stat4(-/-) or Stat4(-/-)/6(-/-) mice to cytokines and STZ was not different from that of islet cells of WT mice. Hence, the observed effects of STAT4 and STAT4/6 deficiency on MLDS-induced autoimmune diabetes are likely due to their effects on T-cell responses.
Mechanism of the hypoglycemic effect of stevioside, a glycoside of Stevia rebaudiana.	We have studied the effects of stevioside on the glucose and insulin metabolism in 2 models of diabetes in rats, STZ-induced diabetic rats and NIDDM diabetic rats induced by feeding with fructose. Stevioside (0.5 mg/kg), lowered the blood glucose levels in STZ-induced diabetic rats, peaking at 90 min. Stevioside administered twice daily also demonstrated dose-dependent effects in lowering the glucose levels in both diabetic rat models. Stevioside reduced the rise in glucose during glucose tolerance testing in normal rats. Stevioside dose-dependently decreased protein levels of phosphoenol pyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and PEPCK mRNA after 15 days of treatment. Stevioside also reduced insulin resistance in the diabetic animals as shown by the glucose lowering effects of tolbutamide. In conclusion, stevioside was able to regulate blood glucose levels by enhancing not only insulin secretion, but also insulin utilization in insulin-deficient rats; the latter was due to decreased PEPCK gene expression in rat liver by stevioside's action of slowing down gluconeogenesis. Further studies of this agent for the treatment of diabetes appear warranted.
Neuronal and astroglial alterations in the hippocampus of a mouse model for type 1 diabetes.	The influence of diabetes mellitus on brain pathology is increasingly recognized. Previous contributions of our laboratory demonstrated in models of type 1 diabetes (nonobese diabetic and streptozotocin (STZ)-treated mice), a marked astrogliosis and neurogenesis deficit in hippocampus and increased expression of hypothalamic neuropeptides. In the present investigation, we further analyzed alterations of astroglia and neurons in the hippocampus of mice 1 month after STZ-induced diabetes. Results showed that these STZ-diabetic mice presented: (a) increased number of astrocytes positive for apolipoprotein-E (Apo-E), a marker of ongoing neuronal dysfunction; (b) abnormal expression of early gene products associated with neuronal activation, including a high number of Jun + neurons in CA1 and CA3 layers and dentate gyrus, and of Fos-expressing neurons in CA3 layer; (c) augmented activity of NADPH-diaphorase, linked to oxidative stress, in CA3 region. These data support the concept that uncontrolled diabetes leads to hippocampal pathology, which adjoin to changes in other brain structures such as hypothalamus and cerebral cortex.
Enhanced expression of group IIA secreted phospholipase A2 by elevated glucose levels in cytokine-stimulated rat mesangial cells and in kidneys of diabetic rats.	Group IIA secreted phospholipase A2 (sPLA2-IIA) has been implicated in various inflammatory processes including the kidney. Previously it has been shown that potent proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) increase sPLA2-IIA expression and secretion in rat mesangial cells.
Pharmacokinetic changes of DA-7867, a new oxazolidinone, after intravenous and oral administration to rats with short-term and long-term diabetes mellitus induced by streptozotocin.	Effects of diabetes mellitus induced by streptozotocin (DMIS) on the pharmacokinetics of DA-7867 were investigated after i.v. and oral administration (10mg/kg) to control Sprague-Dawley rats and DMIS rats (at 7th and 29th days after administration of streptozotocin, 45mg/kg). After i.v. administration to DMIS rats, the AUC(0-infinity) values were significantly smaller (50.7 and 64.8% decrease for 7th and 29th days, respectively); this could be due to significantly faster Cl values in the rats (127 and 183% increase for 7th and 29th days, respectively). The faster Cl values were mainly due to significantly greater amount of unchanged drug excreted in 24-h urine (Ae(0-24h)). The greater Ae(0-24h) in DMIS rats could be due to urine flow rate-dependent renal clearance of DA-7867. After oral administration to DMIS rats, the AUC(0-infinity) values were also significantly smaller (61.3 and 72.6% decrease for 7th and 29th days, respectively); this could also be mainly due to significantly greater Ae(0-24h) in the rats. Streptozotocin-induced hepatotoxicity did not influence considerably on the pharmacokinetics of DA-7867 at 7th day when compared with those at 29th day.
The intrarenal blood flow distribution and role of nitric oxide in diabetic rats.	A few attempts have so far been made to determine the regional renal blood flow distribution in experimental diabetic rats. In the present experiment, 3 weeks after successful streptozotocin injection in diabetic rats (n = 8), the blood flows in the renal superficial and deep cortexes and outer medulla with implanted fibers were measured by laser-Doppler techniques. Renal blood flow was measured by an ultrasonic flow probe placed around the renal artery. Studies were performed at the baseline condition, during the administration of nonselective nitric oxide synthesis inhibitor, nitro- l -arginine methyl-ester ( l -NAME), and during the postinfusion period. The results showed that superficial cortical blood flow and deep cortical blood flow were significantly greater ( P < .05) in diabetic rats compared with control rats (n = 8) (superficial cortical blood flow, 2.18 +/- 0.22 vs 1.55 +/- 0.21 V; deep cortical blood flow, 1.32 +/- 0.13 vs 0.99 +/- 0.14 V) with the significant increase in renal blood flow (18.1 +/- 3.3 vs 14.5 +/- 2.7 mL/min). Furthermore, it was shown that in diabetic rats the intravenous infusion of a low dose of l -NAME, which did not alter medullary blood flow, decreased cortical blood flow (CBF) ( P < .05), whereas in control rats l -NAME did not affect CBF but a high dose of l -NAME decreased medullary blood flow ( P < .05). We conclude that in early diabetic nephropathy the blood flow is increased in both the superficial and deep cortexes, and nitric oxide plays an important role in regulating the CBF during the development of diabetic nephropathy.
Polysaccharides isolated from Phellinus gilvus enhances dermal wound healing in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Dermal wound healing is a complex process that involved inflammation leading to re-epithelialization, granulation tissue, and tissue remodeling. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that polysaccharides isolated from fungus, Phellinus gilvus (PG) have various anti-inflammatory activities. In present study, we have assessed the effect of polysaccharides from PG on the dermal wound healing of polysaccharides from PG in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat model. Six of 6-mm circular wounds were created with biopsy punch on the 4th day after induction of diabetes. After 24 hours, each test substance was applied to the wound twice a day for next 5 days. Circular wounds treated with PG showed significantly reduced wound contraction and complete reepithelialization, as compared to wounds of non-treated (p<0.05). These results show that polysaccharides isolated from PG enhanced wound repair in diabetic impaired healing, and could be developed as a wound healing agent in such clinical settings.
The role of sorbitol pathway and treatment effect of aldose reductase inhibitor ONO2235 in the up-regulation of cardiac M2-muscarinic receptors in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	This study investigated the role of the sorbitol pathway on the genetic up-regulation of the cardiac M(2) muscarinic receptor (M(2)-mAChR) in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Three-month-old male Wistar rats were divided into five groups: (1) normal controls; (2) rats rendered diabetic by streptozotocin; (3) rats fed with glucose; (4) rats injected with sorbitol; and (5) diabetic rats treated with ONO-2235, an aldose reductase inhibitor. The M(2) muscarinic receptor (M(2)-mAChR) protein and mRNA densities of the heart tissue were measured by Western immunoblotting and Northern blotting, respectively. The densities of M(2)-mAChR protein and mRNA in the heart were significantly increased in diabetic rats, and rats given either glucose or sorbitol. When diabetic rats were treated with ONO-2235, the increases in heart M(2)-mAChR protein and mRNA were significantly reduced. The findings suggest that hyperglycemia and the sorbitol pathway are involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic heart disease in STZ-induced diabetic rats. Aldose reductase inhibitors may be useful in the treatment and prevention of cardiac complication in diabetes.
Acute and chronic regulation of the renal Na/H+ exchanger NHE3 in rats with STZ-induced diabetes mellitus.	Early stages of diabetic nephropathy are characterized by alterations of glomerular filtration, increased tubular sodium and water reabsorption, and systemic volume expansion, which may be a major cause for the development of hypertension. As a significant fraction of renal salt and water transport is mediated by the proximal tubular Na+/H+ exchanger NHE3, we investigated its regulation in rats with STZ-induced diabetes mellitus.
Enhanced inflammatory response via activation of NF-kappaB in acute experimental diabetic neuropathy subjected to ischemia-reperfusion injury.	Reperfusion following ischemia increases ischemic fiber degeneration (IFD) in diabetic nerves compared to control normoglycemic nerves. The mechanism of this excessive susceptibility is unclear. Since reperfusion injury results in an inflammatory response, we tested the hypothesis that the diabetic state increases the inflammatory cascade. We used an animal model of unilateral ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury to streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nerve to evaluate the density and localization of mediators of the inflammatory response using selective immunolabeling methods (for nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), cytokines and inflammatory cells). We studied a 1-month diabetic group and an age-matched control group (n=6 each). The right limb underwent 3 h ischemia at 35 degrees C and 7 days reperfusion. This was achieved by ligating the supplying arteries and collaterals to the right sciatic-tibial nerve for 3 h, followed by releasing the ties. Immunohistochemistry was performed on proximal sciatic and mid tibial nerves. NF-kappaB expression in diabetic sciatic endothelial cell and Schwann cell (SC) was significantly increased over that of controls subjected to identical IR injury. We observed a nearly 2-fold increase in density of NF-kappaB and ICAM-1 expression in microvessels of diabetic nerve compared with control nerve. Extensive infiltration of monocyte macrophages (1C7) was observed in the endoneurium of diabetic nerves, while only mild infiltration of granulocytes (HIS 48) occurred in the endoneurium of diabetic tibial nerves. This study provides evidence for an enhanced inflammatory response in diabetic nerves subjected to IR injury apparently via NF-kappaB activation.
Altered behavior and neurochemistry during short-term insulin withdrawal in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats.	Amphetamine-induced stereotypy and turnover of dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) in the CNS were assessed in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats 48 h after withdrawal from insulin treatment and compared with nondiabetic controls, diabetic rats receiving continued insulin treatment, and chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats. Stereotypy was attenuated in chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats but normalized in insulin-treated diabetic rats. Stereotypy in insulin-withdrawn rats was intermediate, being attenuated significantly relative to controls but not significantly different from either insulin-treated diabetic rats or chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats. DA turnover was significantly reduced in striatum and hypothalamus in all diabetic groups. 5-HT turnover was reduced in chronically hyperglycemic diabetic rats in all four brain regions but normalized in insulin-treated diabetic rats. Insulin-withdrawn diabetic rats had significantly reduced 5-HT turnover in frontal cortex. Taken together, the findings indicate that insulin replacement does not normalize diabetes-induced reduction in DA turnover and that short-term insulin withdrawal, e.g., occurring clinically with noncompliance, affects both 5-HT turnover in some brain regions and behavior.
Enhanced insulin sensitivity using electroacupuncture on bilateral Zusanli acupoints (ST 36) in rats.	In this study, intravenous glucose tolerance test (ivGTT) and insulin challenge test (ICT) were applied to evaluate the influence of electroacupuncture (EA) on insulin sensitivity in rats. Firstly, hypoglycemic activity was confirmed on normal Wistar rats (36+/-12%) and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats (13+/-8%) after 60 min of 15 Hz EA on bilateral Zusanli acupoints. The rats were divided into the experiment group (EG) and control group (CG) randomly. After fasting, plasma glucose and insulin levels were assayed in the normal Wistar rats undergoing ivGTT. Plasma glucose levels and hypoglycemic activity were also evaluated in the normal Wistar rats and STZ diabetic rats during ICT. As the data showed, EA improved the glucose tolerance from 15 to 90 min (p<0.005 compared with the plasma glucose levels of the CG) during ivGTT. In addition, significant improvement in the Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA) index was found in the EG from 15 to 90 min (p<0.005 compared with the CG). More hypoglycemic activity was achieved in normal Wistar and STZ diabetic rats in the EG than in the CG (from 30 to 60 min) during ICT. In conclusion, the results suggest that 15 Hz EA at bilateral Zusanli acupoints improved glucose tolerance. Thus, EA should be considered as an alternative method for improving insulin sensitivity and/or increase insulin-hypoglycemic activity in rats.
Neuroprotective effect of etomidate in the central nervous system of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	It is well known that hyperglycaemia due to diabetes mellitus leads to oxidative stress in the central nervous system. Oxidative stress plays important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative changes. In the present study we investigated the possible neuroprotective effect of etomidate against streptozotocin-induced (STZ-induced) hyperglycaemia in the rat brain and spinal cord. A total of 40 rats were used in this study. Rats were divided into four groups: sham-control, diabetic, diabetic-etomidate treated and vehicle for etomidate treatment group. Diabetes mellitus was induced by a single injection of streptozotocin (60 mg/kg body weight). Three days after streptozotocin injection, etomidate (2 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally for etomidate group and lipid emulsion (10%) for vehicle group was injected with corresponding amount intraperitoneally every day for 6 weeks. Six weeks after streptozotocin injection, seven rats from each group were killed and brain, brain stem and cervical spinal cord were removed. The hippocampus, cortex, cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord were dissected for the biochemical analysis (the level of malondialdehyde [MDA], total nitrite, reduced glutathione [GSH], and xanthine oxidase [XO] activity). STZ-induced diabetes resulted in significantly elevation of MDA, XO and nitrite levels in the hippocampus, cortex, cerebellum, brain stem and spinal cord of the rats (P < 0.05) while etomidate treatment provided significantly lower values (P < 0.05). This study demonstrated that etomidate have neuroprotective effect on the neuronal tissue against the diabetic oxidative damage.
Cortex cinnamomi extract prevents streptozotocin- and cytokine-induced beta-cell damage by inhibiting NF-kappaB.	To clarify the mechanism underlying the anti-diabetic activities of cortex cinnamomi extract (CCE).
Effects of different contrast media on glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase activities in the heart and kidneys of normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Hemodynamic changes and contrast nephropathy are well known complications of contrast media injection. However, the mechanisms of toxicity leading to these complications remain unclear. We hypothesized that contrast media toxicity would manifest as a change in antioxidant enzyme activity, thus leading to tissue damage.
Activity, distribution and regulation of phosphofructokinase in salivary gland of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	Although the influence of diabetes on salivary glands is well studied, it still presents conflicting results. In this work, the regulation of the phosphofructokinase-1 enzyme (PFK-1) was studied utilizing the salivary glands of rats. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (60 mg/Kg of body weight) in rats (180-200 g). The animals were killed 30 days after the induction of diabetes and the submandibular and parotid salivary glands were used. Hyperglycemia was evaluated by blood sugar determination. The distribution of PFK-1 between the soluble and cytoskeleton fractions, the phosphate content of PFK-1, the content of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and the activity of the PFK-2 enzyme were determined. The calculated relative glandular weight showed a higher value for the parotid gland in comparison with the control, but not for the submandibular gland. The activity of PFK-1 expressed per gland showed no variation between diabetic and control animals. However, considering the specific activity, the soluble enzyme presented a value 50% higher than that of the control and the cytoskeleton bound form increased by 84% compared to the control. For the parotid gland, no difference in the specific activity between diabetic and control animals was observed. On the other hand, the activity per gland of the soluble enzyme increased in the diabetic animals. The phosphate content of PFK-1 increased in the submandibular and parotid glands of diabetic rats. Both the content of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and the active form of PFK-2 were reduced in the diabetic glands. In conclusion, the increase in the activity of PFK-1 observed in the salivary glands of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes does not seem to be due to its modulator fructose-2,6-bisphosphate.
Generation of insulin-secreting cells from pancreatic acinar cells of animal models of type 1 diabetes.	We recently found that pancreatic acinar cells isolated from normal adult mouse can transdifferentiate into insulin-secreting cells in vitro. Using two different animal models of type 1 diabetes, we show here that insulin-secreting cells can also be generated from pancreatic acinar cells of rodents in the diabetic state with absolute insulin deficiency. When pancreatic acinar cells of streptozotocin-treated mice were cultured in suspension in the presence of epidermal growth factor and nicotinamide under low-serum condition, expressions of insulin genes gradually increased. In addition, expressions of other pancreatic hormones, including glucagon, somatostatin, and pancreatic polypeptide, were also induced. Analysis by the Cre/loxP-based direct cell lineage tracing system revealed that these newly made cells originated from amylase-expressing pancreatic acinar cells. Insulin secretion from the newly made cells was significantly stimulated by high glucose and other secretagogues. In addition, insulin-secreting cells were generated from pancreatic acinar cells of Komeda diabetes-prone rats, another animal model of type 1 diabetes. The present study demonstrates that insulin-secreting cells can be generated by transdifferentiation from pancreatic acinar cells of rodents in the diabetic state and further suggests that pancreatic acinar cells represent a potential source of autologous transplantable insulin-secreting cells for treatment of type 1 diabetes.
Diabetic atherosclerosis mouse models.	Coronary heart disease (CHD) due to atherosclerosis is the leading cause of death in the USA, and accelerated CHD has emerged as a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients in the USA and worldwide. This has highlighted the importance and urgency of studying the mechanism of diabetic atherosclerosis and exploring therapeutic options. Due to its unique advantages over other animal models, the mouse is the most used model for studying the mechanism of diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis and exploring effective therapeutic approaches. In the past decade, several diabetic atherosclerosis mouse models have been established. Currently, however, there is no ideal animal model for diabetic atherosclerosis. To determine the characteristics of the models that more closely resemble human diabetic atherosclerosis disease, this review focuses on the common diabetic atherosclerosis mouse models with respect to the following issues: (1) whether the mice retain diabetic condition; (2) whether the diabetes accelerates atherosclerosis or increases atherogenic inflammation; (3) whether these factors respond to medical interventions. The discussion is aimed at identifying different diabetic mouse models and their features, in order to heighten awareness of the appropriate models that may provide useful tools for studying the mechanism of diabetes-accelerated atherosclerosis and evaluating therapeutic options.
Nicotinamide reverses neurological and neurovascular deficits in streptozotocin diabetic rats.	In diabetes, activation of the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is an important effector of oxidative-nitrosative injury, which contributes to the development of experimental diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN). However, the potential toxicity of complete PARP inhibition necessitates the utilization of weaker PARP inhibitors with additional therapeutic properties. Nicotinamide (vitamin B3) is a weak PARP inhibitor, antioxidant, and calcium modulator and can improve energy status and inhibit cell death in ischemic tissues. We report the dose-dependent effects of nicotinamide in an established model of early DPN. Control and streptozotocin-diabetic rats were treated with 200 to 400 mg/kg/day nicotinamide (i.p.) for 2 weeks after 2 weeks of untreated diabetes. Sciatic endoneurial nutritive blood flow was measured by microelectrode polarography and hydrogen clearance, and sciatic motor and hind-limb digital sensory nerve conduction velocities and thermal and mechanical algesia were measured by standard electrophysiological and behavioral tests. Malondialdehyde plus 4-hydroxyalkenal concentration in the sciatic nerve and amino acid-(4)-hydroxynonenal adduct and poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated protein expression in human Schwann cells were assessed by a colorimetric method with N-methyl-2-phenyl indole and Western blot analysis, respectively. Nicotinamide corrected increased sciatic nerve lipid peroxidation in concert with nerve perfusion deficits and dose-dependently attenuated nerve conduction slowing, as well as mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. Nicotinamide (25 mM) prevented high (30 mM) glucose-induced overexpression of amino acid-(4)-hydroxynonenal adducts and poly(ADP-ribosyl)ated proteins in human Schwann cells. In conclusion, nicotinamide deserves consideration as an attractive, nontoxic therapy for the treatment of DPN.
Chronic inhibition of p38MAPK improves cardiac and endothelial function in experimental diabetes mellitus.	To investigate the influence of p38 mitogen activated kinase (p38MAPK) on the development of diabetic cardiac and endothelial dysfunction, we assessed left ventricular and vascular function as well as inflammatory markers in diabetic rats after chronic pharmacological inhibition of p38MAPK. Diabetes mellitus was induced in rats by a single injection of streptozotocin. Rats were treated with the p38MAPK inhibitor SB 239063 (40 mg/kg/day, p.o.) or vehicle. 48 days after diabetes mellitus-induction, left ventricular function and vascular function were assessed in vivo by TIP-catheter and the autoperfused hindlimb, respectively. Cell adhesion molecules staining was quantified immunohistochemically in the heart and quadriceps muscle, respectively, as well as cardiac phosphorylation of p38MAPK by Western blot analysis. Treated and untreated diabetic groups displayed similar severe hyperglycemia. Left ventricular and endothelial function were impaired in the untreated diabetic group compared to controls (dp/dtmax: -40%, dp/dtmin: +49%, maximal vasodilatation: -57%; P < 0.05) associated with significantly increased cardiac (3-fold) and peripheral cell adhesion molecules staining, respectively. Treatment of diabetic rats with SB 239063 led to a significant reduction of diabetes-induced enhancement of p38MAPK phosphorylation associated with improved left ventricular function (dp/dtmax: +39%, dp/dtmin: +47%; P < 0.05) and peripheral endothelial function (maximal vasodilatation: +71%; P < 0.05) under diabetic conditions. This was associated with reduced cardiac and peripheral inflammation indexed by reduced adhesion molecules content. Pharmacological inhibition of p38MAPK is sufficient to mitigate the development of diabetic cardiac and endothelial dysfunction despite of hyperglycemia. Our data suggest that the anti-inflammatory properties due to p38MAPK inhibition contribute to these beneficial cardiovascular effects.
Intrathecally administered COX-2 but not COX-1 or COX-3 inhibitors attenuate streptozotocin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia in rats.	Members of the cyclooxygenase (COX) family are known to catalyze the rate-limiting steps of prostaglandins synthesis and reported to be involved in neuropathic pain. Diabetic neuropathy is a type of neuropathic pain, though it is not clear if COX is relevant to the condition. Recently, spinal COX-2 protein was found to be increasing in streptozotocin-induced rats as compared to the constitutive expression. We attempted to determine which cyclooxygenase isoforms are involved in streptozotocin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia, which was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of 75 mg/kg of streptozotocin. Intrathecal administrations of the COX-2 inhibitors SC-58125 (7-100 microg) and NS-398 (7-60 microg), as well as a high dose (100 microg) of the COX-1 inhibitor SC-560 attenuated hyperalgesia, whereas intrathecal administrations of a low dose (10 microg) of SC-560 and the COX-3 inhibitor acetaminophen (1-7 mg) did not. Further, intrathecal administration of SC-58125 (100 microg) did not produce an analgesic effect in normal rats. These results indicate that intrathecal administration of COX-2 inhibitors has an anti-hyperalgesic effect on streptozotocin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia and we concluded that spinal COX-2 is pivotal in streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia.
Dietary caloric restriction improves the redox status at the onset of diabetes in hepatocytes of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Enhanced production of free radicals and oxidative stress induced by hyperglycemia play a central role in the pathogenesis of diabetes and its complications. This study assessed the attenuation by dietary caloric restriction on the oxidative and lipid peroxidative effects of diabetes in the liver through reduction in body and organ weights and concomitant metabolic changes. Three-month-old male Wistar rats were subjected to ad libitum feeding and 30% caloric restriction for 9 weeks before induction of diabetes by intraperitoneal injection of 35 mg/kg body weight streptozotocin. The animals were sacrificed 2 weeks after streptozotocin treatment depicting the onset of diabetes. Caloric restriction significantly reduced the organ weights (p<0.01), malondialdehyde (p<0.01) and catalase activity (p<0.01), but significantly increased glutathione reductase activity (p<0.01), and GSH/GSSG ratios (p<0.05). Caloric restriction also non-significantly reduced reactive oxygen species, superoxide dismutase and oxidized glutathione but increased glutathione peroxidase activity and reduced glutathione levels in the diabetic rats. Our data indicate a decrease in lipid peroxidation, improvement in the antioxidant defense systems and restoration of the redox status in the liver by caloric restriction. Therefore, this could provide a non-invasive antioxidant therapy early in diabetes to prevent the development of the complications associated with the disease.
Adult rat liver cells transdifferentiated with lentiviral IPF1 vectors reverse diabetes in mice: an ex vivo gene therapy approach.	We examined a clinical model of ex vivo transdifferentiation of primary adult hepatocytes to insulin-secreting cells for the treatment of type 1 diabetes.
Glucagon receptor knockout mice are resistant to diet-induced obesity and streptozotocin-mediated beta cell loss and hyperglycaemia.	Under normal physiological conditions, glucagon signalling is important in glucose homeostasis. Hyperglucagonaemia or altered insulin:glucagon ratio plays a role in maintaining hyperglycaemia in subjects with type 2 diabetes. It has been reported that glucagon receptor knockout (Gcgr (-/-)) mice develop normally and have lower plasma glucose on a normal diet. The goal of the current research was to further investigate the role of glucagon signalling in metabolic control and glucose homeostasis.
Cinnamaldehyde--a potential antidiabetic agent.	Cinnamonum zeylanicum (cinnamon) is widely used in traditional system of medicine to treat diabetes in India. The present study was carried out to isolate and identify the putative antidiabetic compounds based on bioassay-guided fractionation; the compound identified decreased the plasma glucose levels. The active compound was purified by repeat column and structure of cinnamaldehyde was determined on the basis of chemical and physiochemical evidence. The LD(50) value of cinnamaldehyde was determined as 1850+/-37 mg/kg bw. Cinnamaldehyde was administered at different doses (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg bw) for 45 days to streptozotocin (STZ) (60 mg/kg bw)-induced male diabetic wistar rats. It was found that plasma glucose concentration was significantly (p<0.05) decreased in a dose-dependent manner (63.29%) compared to the control. In addition, oral administration of cinnamaldehyde (20 mg/kg bw) significantly decreased glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1C)), serum total cholesterol, triglyceride levels and at the same time markedly increased plasma insulin, hepatic glycogen and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels. Also cinnamaldehyde restored the altered plasma enzyme (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase) levels to near normal. Administration of glibenclamide, a reference drug (0.6 mg/kg bw) also produced a significant (p<0.05) reduction in blood glucose concentration in STZ-induced diabetic rats. The results of this experimental study indicate that cinnamaldehyde possesses hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
Effect of Sclerocarya birrea (Anacardiaceae) stem bark methylene chloride/methanol extract on streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	Sclerocarya birrea (Anacardiaceae) is used as a traditional treatment of diabetes in Cameroon. In this study, we investigated the possible antidiabetic effect of the stem bark extract in diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ, 55 mg/kg) to male Wistar rats. Experimental animals (six per group), were treated by oral administration of plant extract (150 and 300 mg/kg body weight) and metformin (500 mg/kg; reference drug) for comparison, during 21 days. The stem bark methanol/methylene chloride extract of Sclerocarya birrea exhibited at termination, a significant reduction in blood glucose and increased plasma insulin levels in diabetic rats. The extract also prevented body weight loss in diabetic rats. The effective dose of the plant extract (300 mg/kg) tended to reduce plasma cholesterol, triglyceride and urea levels toward the normal levels. Four days after diabetes induction, an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was also performed in experimental diabetic rats. The results showed a significant improvement in glucose tolerance in rats treated with Sclerocarya birrea extract. Metformin, a known antidiabetic drug (500 mg/kg), significantly decreased the integrated area under the glucose curve. These data indicate that Sclerocarya birrea treatment may improve glucose homeostasis in STZ-induced diabetes which could be associated with stimulation of insulin secretion.
Increased blood-brain barrier permeability and altered tight junctions in experimental diabetes in the rat: contribution of hyperglycaemia and matrix metalloproteinases.	Although diabetes mellitus is associated with peripheral microvascular complications and increased risk of neurological events, the mechanisms by which diabetes disrupts the blood-brain barrier (BBB) are not known. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity is increased in diabetic patients, is associated with degradation of tight junction proteins, and is a known mediator of BBB compromise. We hypothesise that diabetes leads to compromise of BBB tight junctions via stimulation of MMP activity.
Are free radical reactions increased in the diabetic eye?	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are thought to play a significant role in the development of diabetic retinopathy; however, no direct evidence supports ROS generation in vivo. This study used in vivo electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy with a surface resonator to detect local free radical reactions. The ESR signal decay of carbamoyl-PROXYL was enhanced in the eyes of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. This enhanced signal decay was suppressed by the administration of SOD or the pretreatment with aminoguanidine. We demonstrate, for the first time, specific free radical reactions in the eyes of mice with STZ-induced diabetes.
Immune tolerance induced by adoptive transfer of dendritic cells in an insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus murine model.	To investigate the effect and underlying mechanisms of immune-tolerance induced by the adoptive transfer of bone marrow (BM)-derived dendritic cells (DC) in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) mice.
Mechanism for blockade of angiotensin subtype 1 receptors to lower plasma glucose in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	We investigated the mechanism(s) by which valsartan, a selective antagonist of angiotensin subtype 1 (AT(1)) receptor, decreased plasma glucose in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats.
Element analysis in femur of diabetic osteoporosis model by SRXRF microprobe.	Diabetes mellitus affects bone metabolism and leads to osteopenia and osteoporosis, but its pathogenic mechanism remains unknown. To address this problem, mineral element of bone was analyzed in experimental diabetic osteoporosis model. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic group (n=5) and control group (n=5). The experiment lasted 68 days and at the end of the experiment, femoral bone mineral density (BMD) was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry and element content in femur of animals was determined by synchrotron radiation X-ray fluorescence (SRXRF) microprobe analysis technique. Results showed that femoral BMD in diabetic group was significantly lower than that in control (P<0.01). Relative mineral content of calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P) and zinc (Zn) in diabetic femurs decreased significantly compared to controls. And strontium (Sr) in diabetics reduced 11% (P=0.09). Relative content of sulfur (S) in average was statistically higher (P<0.01) in diabetics than that in controls. But no obvious difference was observed in relative content of chromium (Cr), iron (Fe), copper (Cu), and lead (Pb) between the two groups. Statistical analysis revealed that Ca correlated positively with P (R=0.85 and P<0.001), with Sr (R=0.38 and P<0.05) and with Zn (R=0.37 and P<0.05). Whereas, Zn correlated negatively with S (R=-0.40 and P<0.05). Our results reveal that loss of minerals accounts for the BMD reduction in diabetics.
S-nitrosoglutathione-containing hydrogel increases dermal blood flow in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Endothelial dysfunction is characterized by decreased vasodilatory capacity of the arterioles mainly due to the reduced release of nitric oxide (NO). Application of NO donors may prevent or even reverse the consequences of endothelial dysfunction, such as diabetic leg ulcers.
Increased oxidative stress in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic apoE-deficient mouse: changes in expression of NADPH oxidase subunits and eNOS.	Elevated oxidative stress plays a key role in the development of atherosclerosis and endothelial dysfunction in diabetes-associated vascular disease. Glucose-induced changes in the activity of NADPH oxidase and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) may result in vascular endothelial cell dysfunction via dysregulation of eNOS and/or changes in the expression of the subunits of NADPH oxidase. In this study, we have investigated whether changes in the expression of the subunits of NADPH oxidase, or eNOS mRNA, can be associated with oxidative stress in the streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE(-/-)) diabetic mouse. Oxidative stress was assessed in aorta and mesenteric arteries by immunofluorescence labelling with dihydroethidium and levels of NADPH oxidase subunits and eNOS were determined by a real-time polymerase chain reaction protocol. Blood glucose levels and oxidative stress were significantly increased following 4, 8 and 16 weeks after treatment with streptozotocin in both streptozotocin-apoE(-/-) aorta and mesenteric arteries compared to the time- and age-matched vehicle (citrate buffer)-treated non-diabetic apoE(-/-). In the mesenteric arteries the expression of nox4 (4 weeks) and gp91phox (nox2) (8 weeks) subunits of NADPH oxidase from streptozotocin-apoE(-/-) were enhanced as were eNOS mRNA and protein (P<0.05). However, only eNOS mRNA and protein remained increased at 16 weeks. These data indicate that increased oxidative stress in the vasculature of streptozotocin-apoE(-/-) mice is linked to changes in eNOS, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and NADPH oxidase expression.
Preventive effects of fenofibrate on insulin resistance, hyperglycaemia, visceral fat accumulation in NIH mice induced by small-dose streptozotocin and lard.	High-fat diets and oxidative damage may contribute to the development of type 2 diabetes. Hypolipidaemic drugs and antioxidants were supposed to prevent the development of the disease. In this study, we investigated preventive effects of fenofibrate (200 mg kg(-1)), vitamin C (30 mg kg(-1)), combination of both in mice induced by streptozotocin (35 mg kg(-1)) and soluble lard (15 ml kg(-1)). The results showed the mice demonstrated hyperglycaemia and hypercholesterolaemia, visceral fat accumulation, and a slight increase in liver glycogen/triglyceride and oxidative stress within 60 days of treatment. Fenofibrate enhanced insulin sensitivity, improved glycaemic control, lowered serum triglycerides, reduced body and visceral fat weights, and decreased liver glycogen/lipid levels but showed hepatotoxicity in the mice. Vitamin C neither itself prevented nor enhanced preventive effects of fenofibrate on glucose and lipid metabolism but partly attenuated the hepatotoxicity of fenofibrate. These results suggest that fenofibrate inhibit development of type 2 diabetes induced by high-fat diets and oxidative stress. However, here, vitamin C just can serve as an adjunct to fenofibrate therapy against its hepatotoxicity. In the future study, we should investigate if higher dosage of vitamin C or other antioxidants would enhance preventive effects of fenofibrate in type 2 diabetes.
Diabetes attenuates psychological stress-elicited 5-HT secretion in the prefrontal cortex but not in the amygdala of mice.	It is well established that diabetes widely affects the functioning of the central nervous system. However, no in vivo study assessed the serotonin (5-HT)-releasing system in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala--the crucial regions regulating emotion. We investigated the effects of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes on the levels of extracellular 5-HT in the PFC and amygdala by using an in vivo microdialysis technique in mice. In addition, the effects of psychological stress on 5-HT secretion were also examined. The basal and the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor citalopram (1 microM)-accumulated 5-HT levels remained unchanged in both the PFC and amygdala of diabetic mice. The elevated open platform stress-elicited 5-HT secretion was significantly decreased in the PFC of diabetic mice, and this blunted response was normalized by sub-chronic pretreatment with insulin (5 U/kg, s.c., twice daily). Diabetes had no significant effect on the KCl (100 mM)-stimulated 5-HT release in the PFC. In the amygdala, diabetes had no effect on the stress-elicited 5-HT secretion. Diabetic mice exhibited prolonged freezing as compared to the non-diabetic mice in the elevated open-platform test. In addition, insulin-treated diabetic mice showed the significant shorter duration of freezing than that in diabetic mice. In conclusion, our present findings indicate that diabetes attenuates the serotonergic response to stressful stimuli in a site-specific fashion. In addition, we suggest the possibility that the dysfunction of stress-elicited 5-HT release, but not basal 5-HT release, causes the increased expression of fear-related behavior in diabetic mice.
Effects of angiotensin 1-7 on the actions of angiotensin II in the renal and mesenteric vasculature of hypertensive and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Angiotensin 1-7, a heptapeptide derived from metabolism of either angiotensin I or angiotensin II, is a biologically active peptide of the renin-angiotensin system. The present study investigated the effect of angiotensin 1-7 on the vasopressor action of angiotensin II in the renal and mesenteric vasculature of Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Angiotensin II-induced dose-dependent vasoconstrictions in the renal vasculature. The pressor response was enhanced in the SHR and reduced in the streptozotocin-diabetic rat compared to WKY rats. Angiotensin 1-7 attenuated the angiotensin II pressor responses in the renal vasculature of WKY and SHR rats. However, the ability to reduce angiotensin II response was diminished in diabetic-induced rat kidneys. The effect of angiotensin 1-7 was not inhibited by 1-[(4-(Dimethylamino)-3-methylphenyl] methyl]-5-(diphenylacetyl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine-6-carboxylic acid ditrifluoroacetate (PD123319), an angiotensin AT(2) receptor antagonist. (D-ALA(7))-Angiotensin I/II (1-7) (D-ALA) (an angiotensin 1-7 receptor antagonist), indomethacin (a cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor), and N(omega)-Nitro-L-Arginine Methyl Ester (L-NAME)(a nitric oxide synthetase inhibitor) abolished the attenuation by angiotensin 1-7 in both WKY rats and SHR, indicating that its action is mediated by angiotensin 1-7 receptor that is either coupled to the release of prostaglandins and/or nitric oxide. The vasopressor responses to angiotensin II in mesenteric vasculature bed was also dose-dependent but smaller in magnitude compared to the renal vasculature. The responses to angiotensin II were relatively smaller in SHR but no significant difference was observed between WKY and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Angiotensin 1-7 attenuated the angiotensin II pressor responses in WKY, SHR and diabetic-induced mesenteric bed. The attenuation was observed at the lower concentrations of angiotensin II in WKY and diabetic-induced rats but at higher concentrations in SHR. Similar observation as in the renal vasculature was seen with PD123319, D-ALA, and L-NAME. Indomethacin reversed the attenuation by angiotensin 1-7 only in the SHR mesenteric vascular bed. The present findings support the regulatory role of angiotensin 1-7 in the renal and mesenteric vasculature, which is differentially altered in hypertension and diabetes.
Attenuated function and expression of P-glycoprotein at blood-brain barrier and increased brain distribution of phenobarbital in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice.	The aim of the study was to investigate whether diabetes mellitus modulated the function and expression of P-glycoprotein and the distribution of phenobarbital in the brain of 3-week streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice. P-glycoprotein function in blood-brain barrier was assessed by measuring the brain-to-plasma concentration ratios of rodamine123, a well-known P-glycoprotein substrate, in non-diabetic mice and diabetic mice. P-glycoprotein expression in the brain cortex was evaluated with western blot. Whether diabetes mellitus changed the distribution of phenobarbital (60 mg/kg, i.v.) in brain of mice was measured, and whether the changed distribution caused the difference of phenobarbital (80 and 100 mg/kg) -induced loss of the righting reflex in non-diabetic and diabetic mice were also investigated. The results showed that the brain-to-plasma concentration ratio value of rodamine123 in diabetic mice was significantly higher than that of non-diabetic mice, western blot suggested that the protein level of P-glycoprotein in the brain of 3-week diabetic mice was significantly lower than that of non-diabetic mice, and insulin treatment restored the impairment of P-glycoprotein. The exposure of phenobarbital in brain of diabetic mice was 1.30-fold of that of non-diabetic mice, while in plasma the fold was 1.09. The increased distribution of phenobarbital in the brain of diabetic mice significantly increased the duration of phenobarbital-induced loss of the righting reflex and reduced the latency time of loss of the righting reflex. All the results suggested that the function and expression of P-glycoprotein might be impaired and the brain distribution of phenobarbital was increased in brain of streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice.
Changes in expression of adrenomedullin in the myocardium of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Adrenomedullin is a potent vasodilating peptide and involved in many cardiovascular diseases. However, whether adrenomedullin is involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy is still unknown. Our aim was to characterize the expression pattern of adrenomedullin in the myocardium of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.
The effect of diabetes and centrally administered insulin on anterior hypothalamic estrogen receptor alpha immunoreactivity.	Diabetic rats have characteristic reproductive deficits. Peripheral and central (intra-cerebro-ventricular [ICV]) insulin restores the reproductive phenotype to control levels. In this experiment, we evaluated a possible defect in steroid feedback by evaluating hypothalamic estrogen receptor (ER) alpha availability using ERalpha immunocytochemistry. Animals were ovariectomised and given estradiol and progesterone. Diabetic and control animals were given ICV insulin or saline. Nuclear and/or cytoplasmic ERalpha immunoreactivity was evaluated in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis (OVLT). In the PVN, nuclear immunoreactivity was increased among diabetic, ICV insulin-treated animals. Diabetic saline-treated and nondiabetic animals had similar ERalpha immunoreactivity. The OVLT had lower numbers of immunoreactive neurons compared to the PVN; no differences among the treatment groups were found in the OVLT. Central insulin treatment increased the number of PVN nuclear ERalpha immunoreactive neurons among diabetic animals. However, there was no reduction in ERalpha when comparing saline-treated diabetic animals to non-diabetic rats, suggesting that decreases in hypothalamic ERalpha in the regions studied do not account for diabetes-induced reproductive deficits.
Genetic deletion of p66(Shc) adaptor protein prevents hyperglycemia-induced endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress.	Increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and loss of endothelial NO bioavailability are key features of vascular disease in diabetes mellitus. The p66(Shc) adaptor protein controls cellular responses to oxidative stress. Mice lacking p66(Shc) (p66(Shc-/-)) have increased resistance to ROS and prolonged life span. The present work was designed to investigate hyperglycemia-associated changes in endothelial function in a model of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus p66(Shc-/-) mouse. p66(Shc-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice were injected with citrate buffer (control) or made diabetic by an i.p. injection of 200 mg of streptozotocin per kg of body weight. Streptozotocin-treated p66(Shc-/-) and WT mice showed a similar increase in blood glucose. However, significant differences arose with respect to endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress. WT diabetic mice displayed marked impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxations, increased peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) generation, nitrotyrosine expression, and lipid peroxidation as measured in the aortic tissue. In contrast, p66(Shc-/-) diabetic mice did not develop these high-glucose-mediated abnormalities. Furthermore, protein expression of the antioxidant enzyme heme oxygenase 1 and endothelial NO synthase were up-regulated in p66(Shc-/-) but not in WT mice. We report that p66(Shc-/-) mice are resistant to hyperglycemia-induced, ROS-dependent endothelial dysfunction. These data suggest that p66(Shc) adaptor protein is part of a signal transduction pathway relevant to hyperglycemia vascular damage and, hence, may represent a novel therapeutic target against diabetic vascular complications.
Effect of glycine on the immune response of the experimentally diabetic rats.	Hyperglycemia induces protein glycation, disturbing its function, additionally, the glycated products (AGEs) induce by themselves proinflammatory cytokine release that are responsible for insulin resistance. Glycine has been successfully used in diabetic patients to competitively reduce hemoglobin glycation.
Elevated concentrations of kynurenic acid, a tryptophan derivative, in dense nuclear cataracts.	Kynurenines and their glycoside derivatives in the ocular lens absorb ultraviolet radiation and thus possibly help protect the retina from ultraviolet light. The current study analysed kynurenine aminotransferase I (KAT I) activity and kynurenic acid (KYNA) concentrations in human senile cataractous lenses and in experimentally induced cataracts in diabetic rats treated with streptozotocin (STZ).
PPAR gamma agonists partially restores hyperglycemia induced aggravation of vascular dysfunction to angiotensin II in thoracic aorta isolated from rats with insulin resistance.	Altered vascular responses to various vasopressors in animal models of insulin resistance (IR) and diabetes have been well documented. However, the precise mechanisms about vascular responses in IR with or without frank hyperglycemia (prediabetic state) are not available. Moreover, recently the role of peroxisome proliferators activated receptor-gamma (PPAR gamma) has been linked to influence the vascular responses in hypertensive and diabetic state. Hence, the present study was conceived to determine the role of hyperglycemia on angiotensin II (Ang II) mediated vascular responses in the high fat diet (HFD) induced insulin resistance either with mild or frank hyperglycemia [induced by injection of low dose streptozotocin (STZ) to HFD fed rats (HFD+STZ)]. In addition, insulin-sensitizing agent such as rosiglitazone and pioglitazone were also studied on biochemical and vascular responses. Ang II-induced contractions were studied isometrically in thoracic aortic rings isolated from 4 weeks of normal pellet diet (NPD) fed control, HFD and HFD+STZ fed insulin resistant rats. Specific binding of Ang II receptors were carried out using radioligand ([(3)H]-Ang II) binding studies. After 4 weeks of HFD feeding, rats exhibited characteristics features of insulin resistance such as mild hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia and hypertension; whereas HFD+STZ treated rats showed all above parameters along with frank hyperglycemia. Maximal contractile response (E(max)) to Ang II is increased in HFD fed rats as compared to control rats. Moreover, E(max) values are further elevated in HFD+STZ group where the frank hyperglycemia was induced by low dose of streptozotocin. Rosiglitazone (5 mg kg(-1), p.o.) and pioglitazone (10 mg kg(-1), p.o.) treatment significantly lowered the plasma glucose, triglycerides, insulin and cholesterol levels in insulin resistance rats. In addition, it also restored the elevated systolic, mean arterial, diastolic blood pressure and attenuated the enhanced contractile responses to Ang II in thoracic aortic rings obtained from both HFD and HFD+STZ treated rats. Specific binding of [(3)H]-Ang II is upregulated in HFD-fed and HFD+STZ treated rats. Treatment with pioglitazone and rosiglitazone significantly decreased the AT(1)R specific binding in HFD fed rats. Our results indicate the role of hyperglycemia in the elevation of Ang II induced vascular responses in thoracic aorta isolated from insulin resistant rats and PPAR gamma agonists can attenuate these responses.
Serotonin enhances beta-endorphin secretion to lower plasma glucose in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Although serotonin, serotonin uptake inhibitors and serotonin precursors (including tryptophan or 5-hydroxytryptophan) are known to have hypoglycemic action in rodents or human, it is not clear whether serotonin has hypoglycemic effect in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (STZ-diabetic rats). The aim of this study was to investigate the action of serotonin in regulating the plasma glucose STZ-diabetic rats. Plasma glucose, insulin, beta-endorphin and adrenaline were assessed after intraperitoneal administration of serotonin. Serotonin produced hypoglycemic effects without altering plasma insulin and adrenaline levels but increasing beta-endorphin level in STZ-diabetic rats. The glycogen content in soleus muscle was increased at 90 min after application of serotonin (0.3 mg/kg) in STZ-diabetic rats. Dihydroergotamine (non-selective 5-HT receptor blocker) and pimozide (5-HT(7) receptor blocker) abolished the hypoglycemic effect of serotonin in STZ-diabetic rats. Serotonin-induced hypoglycemic effect in association with the increase of beta-endorphin release was abolished in bilaterally adrenalectomized STZ-diabetic rats. In isolated adrenal gland of STZ-diabetic rats, the increase of beta-endorphin secretion in response to serotonin was reduced by either dihydroergotamine or pimozide. Pretreatment with naloxone (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) prevented serotonin-induced plasma glucose lowering effect in STZ-diabetic rats. The results demonstrated that serotonin may activate 5-HT(7) receptor on rat adrenal gland to enhance of beta-endorphin secretion, which then stimulates the opioid receptor to increase peripheral glucose utilization, resulting in decreased plasma glucose levels in STZ-diabetic rats.
Allogenic islet transplantation on the rat liver after allogenic nonparenchymal cells injection in the thymus]	[corrected] The major indication for pancreas or islet transplantation is diabetes mellitus type I. This process has to supply the insulin necessity keeping glucose under control
Lack of the antioxidant enzyme glutathione peroxidase-1 accelerates atherosclerosis in diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient mice.	Recent clinical studies have suggested a major protective role for the antioxidant enzyme glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPx1) in diabetes-associated atherosclerosis. We induced diabetes in mice deficient for both GPx1 and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) to determine whether this is merely an association or whether GPx1 has a direct effect on diabetes-associated atherosclerosis.
Effect of elastic fiber alterations in the tunica albuginea of the penis on erectile function of diabetic rats]	To investigate the effect of elastic fiber alterations in the tunica albuginea of the penis on erectile function of diabetic rats.
Lack of blood pressure salt-sensitivity supports a preglomerular site of action of nitric oxide in Type I diabetic rats.	1. The relationship between sodium intake and blood pressure is affected differently by changes in angiotensin (Ang) II and preglomerular resistance, and this study measured that relationship to evaluate the link between nitric oxide and blood pressure early in diabetes. 2. Rats were chronically instrumented, placed on high-sodium (HS = 12 mEq/d) or low-sodium (LS = 0.07 mEq/d) intake diets and assigned to either vehicle- (V) or Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester- (L-NAME; L) treated groups. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) was measured 18 h/day for a 6-day control and 14-day streptozotocin diabetic period in each animal. 3. The MAP of the control period averaged 95 +/- 1 and 94 +/- 1 mmHg in the LSV and HSV rats and 116 +/- 2 and 124 +/- 1 mmHg in the LSL and HSL rats, respectively (LSL vs HSL was significant at P < 0.05). Diabetes increased MAP only in the LSL and HSL rats to 141 +/- 2 mmHg and 152 +/- 2, respectively, similar to our previous reports, and those respective 25 and 28 mmHg increases were a parallel shift in the pressure natriuresis relationship. However, the apparent difference between the LSL and HSL groups when compared was a parallel of the control MAP difference. Plasma renin activity (PRA) in the control period averaged 1.5 +/- 0.5 and 8.1 +/- 1.8 ng AI/mL per h in the HSV and LSV rats, and 0.8 +/- 0.2 and 2.8 +/- 0.5 ng AI/mL per h in the HSL and LSL rats, respectively, and increased similarly by 4.6-fold in the HSL and 4.8-fold in the LSL rats during diabetes. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) increased in the vehicle but not the L-NAME-treated groups, consistent with our previous reports. 4. Thus, the hypertension caused by the onset of diabetes in L-NAME-treated rats was not salt-sensitive. The normal modulation of PRA by salt intake and the failure of GFR to increase are consistent with our hypothesis that nitric oxide may protect against hypertension early in diabetes by preventing preglomerular vasoconstriction by AngII.
Elevation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6 levels in aortic intima of Chinese Guizhou minipigs with streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	Large animal models with toxin-mediated pancreatic damage have been used extensively in researches with respect to diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular diabetic complications. The present study aimed to establish Chinese Guizhou minipig models with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes and characterize the animal models by analyzing inflammatory cytokine levels in aortic wall, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6).
Changes in plasma prekallikrein activity, blood pressure, and left ventricular thickness in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic rats.	The present study examined plasma prekallikrein (PK) activity, left ventricular wall thickness (LVWT) and mean arterial blood pressure (BP) in diabetic and nondiabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats. The mean arterial BP was significantly raised (p < 0.01) in diabetic WKY rats and diabetic SHR when compared with their respective controls. The LVWT was significantly (p < 0.01) increased in diabetic WKY rats when compared with that in the control WKY rats. There was also an increase (p < 0.01) in the LVWT in the SHR and diabetic SHR when compared with that in the control WKY rats and diabetic WKY rats, respectively. The plasma PK activities were higher (p < 0.01) in diabetic WKY rats, SHR, and diabetic SHR against the mean value of control WKY rats. In this animal study, these findings suggest for the first time that higher plasma PK activity may serve as an indicator for predicting high BP and left ventricular hypertrophy in diabetic and hypertensive conditions. The possible significance of these observations is discussed.
Hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects of Aronia melanocarpa fruit juice in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Aronia melanocarpa fruit juice (AMFJ) is rich in phenolic antioxidants, especially flavonoids from the anthocyanin subclass. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of AMFJ on plasma glucose and lipids in diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by an intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg). AMFJ was applied by gavage at doses of 10 and 20 ml/kg for 6 weeks to normal and diabetic rats. Streptozotocin caused a significant elevation of plasma glucose by 141% and of plasma triglycerides (TG) by 64% in comparison with normal control rats and induced statistically insignificant elevations of total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol and a reduction of HDL-cholesterol. Applied to normal rats, AMFJ did not influence plasma glucose and lipid levels. Applied to diabetic rats, AMFJ (10 and 20 ml/kg) significantly reduced plasma glucose by 44% and 42% and TG by 35% and 39%, respectively, to levels that did not significantly differ from those of the normal control rats and counteracted the influence of streptozotocin on total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol. In conclusion, AMFJ significantly decreased the streptozotocin-induced abnormalities in blood glucose and TG in diabetic rats and might be useful in prevention and control of diabetes mellitus and diabetes-associated complications.
Brain insulin system dysfunction in streptozotocin intracerebroventricularly treated rats generates hyperphosphorylated tau protein.	The intracerebroventricular (icv) application of streptozotocin (STZ) in low dosage was used in 3-month-old rats to explore brain insulin system dysfunction. Three months following STZ icv treatment, the expression of insulin-1 and -2 mRNA was significantly reduced to 11% in hippocampus and to 28% in frontoparietal cerebral cortex, respectively. Insulin receptor (IR) mRNA expression decreased significantly in frontoparietal cerebral cortex and hippocampus (16% and 33% of control). At the protein/activity level, different abnormalities of protein tyrosine kinase activity (increase in hippocampus), total IR beta-subunit (decrease in hypothalamus) and phosphorylated IR tyrosine residues (increase) became apparent. The STZ-induced disturbance in learning and memory capacities was not abolished by icv application of glucose transport inhibitors known to prevent STZ-induced diabetes mellitus. The discrepancy between reduced IR gene expression and increase in both phosphorylated IR tyrosine residues/protein tyrosine kinase activity may indicate imbalance between phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of the IR beta-subunit causing its dysfunction. These abnormalities may point to a complex brain insulin system dysfunction after STZ icv application, which may lead to an increase in hyperphosphorylated tau-protein concentration. Brain insulin system dysfunction is discussed as possible pathological core in the generation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein as a morphological marker of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
Thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) may preserve pancreatic islet cell function: potential role in the treatment of diabetes mellitus.	Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone (TRH), first identified in the hypothalamus as a regulator of the Pituitary-Thyroid axis, has also been found in the beta-cell of the pancreas co-localised with insulin. The significance of this association is emphasised by the report that the TRH knock-out (KO) mouse is hyperglycemic. These findings have led to speculation that TRH may have a physiologic role in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism. To understand better the role of TRH in the pancreas, TRH was administered to rats rendered diabetic from streptozotocin damage to the islets of Langerhans. This resulted in almost complete normalisation of the profound hyperglycemia. TRH is capable of reversing Diabetes Mellitus (DM) in an experimental animal model, possibly by promoting neogenesis of beta cells through induction of adult stem cells in the pancreas. These studies point to a potential therapeutic role for TRH in the treatment of DM in man.
Vasodilation of retinal arteriole mediated by corticotropin-releasing factor receptor is impaired in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	We investigated the vasodilator responses of retinal arterioles induced by stimulating corticotropin-releasing factor receptors in non-diabetic and diabetic rats. Male Wistar rats were treated with streptozotocin (65 mg/kg, i.v.) and experiments were performed 6-8 weeks later. Rats were treated with tetrodotoxin (50 mug/kg, i.v.) to eliminate any nerve activity and prevent movement of the eye and infused with a mixture of norepinephrine and epinephrine to maintain adequate systemic circulation under artificial ventilation. Fundus images were captured with an original high-resolution digital fundus camera system. The vasodilator responses of retinal arterioles were assessed by measuring changes in diameters of retinal arterioles in response to urocortin and urocortin 2. Both urocortin (0.03-1.0 micromol/kg, i.v.) and urocortin 2 (0.1-3.0 micromol/kg, i.v.) increased diameters of retinal arterioles and decreased systemic blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner. The responses to urocortins were reduced in diabetic rats. These results suggest that urocortin and urocortin 2 play as vasodilators in retinal and peripheral resistance arterioles. The impairment of vasodilation mediated by the corticotropin-releasing factor receptors may contribute to the alteration of retinal and systemic circulation in the diabetic state.
The effects of diabetes mellitus, age, and vitamin E on testicular oxidative stress.	To examine the effects of age and/or diabetes on oxidative stress and steroidogenesis, and the protective effect of vitamin E in testis tissue.
The NHE1 Na+/H+ exchanger regulates cell survival by activating and targeting ezrin to specific plasma membrane domains.	NHE1 is a ubiquitously expressed Na+/H+ exchanger, which is important for vital cell functions. Using in vivo models of kidney podocyte injury and renal tubular epithelial cell (RTC) culture systems, we previously demonstrated that NHE1 defends against apoptosis by a mechanism involving ezrin binding to the NHE1 cytoplasmic domain. We now extend the NHE1 role to diabetic mouse models and refine the mechanism of NHE1-dependent ezrin activation. Streptozotocin induced diabetes resulted in greater azotemia, albuminuria and tubulointerstitial pathology in NHE1-deficient swe/swe compared to wild-type control mice. Increased RTC apoptosis was noted in swe/swe mice, suggesting that loss of NHE1 function leads to tubular atrophy, which predicts kidney disease progression. In vitro, proximal RTC derived from swe/swe mice also underwent increased apoptosis in response to staurosporine or a hypertonic environment. Activated ezrin normally resides in the apical domain of the proximal RTC, while NHE1 is a basolateral protein. After NHE1 activation by intracellular acidification or extracellular hypertonicity, confocal immunofluorescence microscopy in polarized LLC-PK1 cells demonstrated transient ezrin localization to lateral membrane domains, where it is positioned to interact with NHE1. We conclude that cell stresses promote NHE1-ezrin interaction, which activate cell survival pathways to prevent apoptosis in diabetic and non-diabetic kidney diseases.
Chromium yeast supplementation improves fasting plasma glucose and LDL-cholesterol in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Chromium yeast supplementation has been studied for its ability to improve carbohydrate and lipid abnormalities. There have been some earlier literature-reported studies involving chromium supplementation amongst patients suffering diabetes, but the results would appear to be somewhat varied. Forty male Wistar rats (ten weeks old, 300 g in average body mass) were divided into one of four groups, namely (i) controls; (ii) controls treated with chromium yeast; (iii) diabetic controls; and (iv) diabetic rats treated with chromium yeast. In the present investigation, the effect of a four-week oral administration of chromium yeast (600 microg of Cr/kg body mass/day, by gavage) upon the glucose and lipid metabolism in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats was assessed. Supplemental Cr yeast decreased the fasting blood glucose amongst the STZ-diabetic rats. No significant difference was observed in plasma fructosamine levels of rats treated with chromium yeast compared to control rats. Supplemental Cr yeast did decrease the plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol level for the STZ-diabetic rats as compared to controls. We noted no significant effect of chromium supplementation upon plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol or triglycerides compared to controls. Treatment with chromium yeast significantly increased the blood and urine chromium levels for both the diabetic and normal rats compared to respective control groups. The results of these studies suggest that Cr yeast decreased the fasting blood glucose and LDL-cholesterol levels in STZ-induced diabetic rats. This raises the possibility that Cr yeast supplementation can be considered to improve carbohydrate and lipid metabolism amongst human patients featuring type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Streptozotocin-induced model of type 1 diabetes mellitus]	Diabetes mellitus is the important health problem in the developed countries. Type 1 diabetes mellitus and its complications can be studied either on genetic models or it can be induced postnatally. One of the most frequently used postnatal models is the experimental diabetes induced by streptozotocin (STZ). This article presents an overview of STZ use in small and bigger experimental animals and their sensitivity to the diabetogenic effect of this drug. Some new aspects of the long-term STZ diabetes in albino rats (12 months) are provided.
Effect of dietary substitution of groundnut oil on blood glucose, lipid profile, and redox status in streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	The effect of groundnut oil on blood glucose, lipid profile, lipid peroxidation, and antioxidant status in streptozotocin-diabetic rats was investigated and compared with diabetic and drug-treated rats. Diabetes was induced in adult female Wistar rats by intraperitoneal administration of streptozotocin (40 mg/kg b-wt). Normal and diabetic rats were fed an oil-free diet containing 2 percent oil supplemented with groundnut oil (6g per 94 g diet), to give 8 percent oil content, for 42 days. Diabetic rats had elevated levels of glucose (322.61 +/- 9.49), glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)), vitamin E, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), and lipid hydroperoxides (HP) and decreased levels of hemoglobin (Hb), vitamin C, and reduced glutathione (GSH). An increase in the activities of glucose-6-phosphatase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and a decrease in hexokinase activity also were observed in the liver and kidney. When diabetic rats were fed groundnut oil, a significant reduction in glucose (244.04 +/- 11.66), HbA(1c), TBARS, HP levels, and glucose-6-phosphatase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase activities and an elevation in Hb, vitamin E, GSH levels, and hexokinase activity were observed. Diabetic rats had elevated total cholesterol (TC), VLDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides (TG) and decreased HDL-cholesterol. Diabetic rats fed groundnut oil showed a small but significant reduction in TC, VLDL-C, LDL-C, and TG and an elevation in HDL-C. Groundnut oil consumption slightly but significantly decreases the blood glucose, HbA(1c), lipid peroxidation, and lipid profile and increases antioxidant levels in diabetic rats.
Impairment of glycerol phosphate shuttle in islets from rats with diabetes induced by neonatal streptozocin.	In islets from adult rats injected with streptozocin during the neonatal period, the oxidative and secretory responses to D-glucose are more severely affected than those evoked by L-leucine. A possible explanation for such a preferential defect was sought by comparing the rate of aerobic glycolysis, taken as the sum of D-[3,4-14C]glucose conversion to labeled CO2, pyruvate, and amino acid, with the total glycolytic flux, as judged from the conversion of D-[5-3H]glucose to 3H2O. A preferential impairment of aerobic relative to total glycolysis was found in islets from diabetic rats incubated at either low or high D-glucose concentration. This coincided in islet mitochondria of diabetic rats with a severe decrease in both the basal (no-Ca2+) generation of 3H2O from L-[2-3H]glycerol-3-phosphate and the Ca2(+)-induced increment in [3H]glycerophosphate detritiation. The mitochondria of diabetic rats were also less efficient than those of control animals in generating 14CO2 from [1-14C]-2-ketoglutarate. The diabetes-induced alteration of 2-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase in islet mitochondria was less marked, however, than that of the FAD-linked glycerophosphate dehydrogenase and was not associated with any change in responsiveness to Ca2+. Sonicated islet mitochondria of diabetic rats displayed normal to slightly elevated glutamate dehydrogenase activity. We propose, therefore, that the preferential impairment of the oxidative and secretory responses of islet cells to D-glucose in this experimental model of diabetes may be at least partly attributable to an altered transfer of reducing equivalents into the mitochondria as mediated by the glycerol phosphate shuttle.
Effects of PP-56 and vitamin E on platelet hyperaggregability, fatty acid abnormalities, and clinical manifestations in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats.	The effects of vitamin E and D-myo-inositol 1,2,6-trisphosphate (PP-56) were investigated in long-term studies in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats fed a purified diet with 33% lipids and a polyunsaturated-to -saturated fatty acid ratio of 1. A supplement of vitamin E decreased plasma triglycerides, platelet lipid biosynthesis, some of the delta 6- and delta 5-desaturase abnormalities, and urine ketone bodies but did not affect the response of platelets to aggregation. PP-56 completely normalized the platelet reactivity to ADP and thrombin. This was accompanied by normalization of platelet lipid biosynthesis and diabetes-induced abnormalities in delta 6- and delta 5-desaturases. PP-56 treatment also reduced the mortality rate and to a certain extent urinary ketone bodies. The protective effect of PP-56 on platelet aggregation and mortality rate were dose related. PP-56, a molecule derived from phytic acid, seems to exert potent protective effects on some of the manifestations associated with diabetes in rats.
Prostatic androgen receptor and plasma testosterone levels in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Diabetes was induced in male Sprague-Dawley (S-D) rats by streptozotocin (STZ) administration. Following STZ injection, plasma glucose levels in the treated rats were significantly elevated from values of untreated controls. Over the experimental period (140 days) plasma testosterone (T) levels, prostatic nuclear androgen receptor (AR) contents and prostatic weights declined with increasing age in the rats. The declines in both STZ-treated and untreated rats were similar in manner and no notable differences were discerned in the data obtained from the two groups. On the contrary, prostatic cytosolic AR contents in untreated rats remained unchanged with advancing age, but was reduced to 50% of normal control values in diabetic rats following STZ treatment. Correlation analyses revealed that prostatic nuclear AR contents correlated positively with plasma T levels while prostatic cytosolic AR contents correlated negatively with plasma glucose levels. These data support former claims that prostatic nuclear AR content is dependent on circulating T level and suggest a possible link between prostatic cytosolic AR content and plasma glucose concentrations.
Effects of maternal hyperglycemia on fetal growing mechanism]	The aim of this study was to clarify the effects of maternal hyperglycemia on fetal growth in rats. In streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, maternal serum glucose levels during pregnancy were controlled by daily injection of NPH insulin or saline from day 3 to 21 of pregnancy. The body weight, hepatic glycogen content and serum concentrations of insulin and Insulin-like Growth Factor-I (IGF-I) in fetuses from these rats were measured on Day 21 of pregnancy. Fetal body weight positively correlated with maternal mean blood glucose (MBG) during pregnancy in the groups of diabetic mothers whose MBG was less than 220 mg/dl, whereas a negative correlation was observed in the groups whose MBG was more than 220 mg/dl. In addition, a similar correlation between hepatic glycogen content, serum concentrations of insulin or IGF-I and maternal MBG was observed. On the other hand, in the culture of fetal rat hepatocytes, glycogen content indicated a dose-related increase according to the increase in glucose concentration in the medium. These results suggest that the growth retardation observed in rats whose maternal mean glucose level is higher than 220 mg/dl is not caused by abnormalities in the metabolic function of the fetal metabolic organ (liver), but it is caused by a decrease in the production and/or secretion of growth-promoting factors (for example insulin and IGF-I) in the fetuses.
Biochemical and functional characteristics of bladder muscarinic receptors and effects of experimental diabetes in rats]	Bladder dysfunction is a common complication of diabetes mellitus and is attributed in part to peripheral neuropathy. Voiding function is mainly controlled by muscarinic receptor function. Therefore, I investigated first the biochemical and functional characteristics of urinary bladder muscarinic receptors and then the effects of experimental diabetes on them. Experimental diabetes was induced in 2 month-old male rats by intravenous injection of 65 mg/kg of streptozotocin (STZ). Effects of diabetes mellitus were investigated 2, 4 and 8 weeks after injection of STZ. The amount of muscarinic receptors labelled with 3H-quinuclidinyl benzylate (QNB) was higher in the bladder dome of diabetic animals than control animals, while the affinity for its binding sites was similar in both groups. Muscarinic agonists and antagonists inhibited 3H-QNB binding with similar inhibitory constants (Ki) in control and diabetic domes. The rank order of inhibition of 3H-QNB binding by muscarinic agonists and antagonists: bethanechol greater than pirenzepine greater than carbamylcholine greater than acetylcholine greater than atropine, is consistent with the absence of M1 receptors in the bladder dome. In functional studies muscarinic agonists induced a larger contractile response in bladder dome muscle strips from 8 week-old diabetic animal than those from controls. The rank order of ED50s were similar in the control and treated groups, being in good agreement with the Ki values obtained from receptor binding studies. These data show a direct correlation between the diabetes-induced biochemical and functional alterations in muscarinic receptor properties of the rat bladder.
Effects of novel aldose reductase inhibitors, M16209 and M16287, on streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy in rats.	We investigated the effects of novel aldose reductase inhibitors, M16209 (1-(3-bromobenzo[b]furan-2-ylsulfonyl)hydantoin) and M16287 (1-(3-chlorobenzo[b]furan-2-ylsulfonyl)hydantoin), on neuropathy in streptozotocin-induced (STZ) diabetic rats. Both compounds (3-100 mg/kg per day, p.o.) dose dependently improved the decreased motor nerve conduction velocity in the sciatic nerve during a 14-day treatment period. These compounds also partially ameliorated the diabetes-induced histological changes in the sciatic nerve. A distinct increase in sorbitol content and a slight decrease in myo-inositol content was observed in the sciatic nerve of STZ diabetic rats, and the sorbitol accumulation was dose dependently suppressed by treatment with M16209 and M16287. Treatment started at an earlier period was more effective in the suppression of sorbitol accumulation. There was a significant correlation between motor nerve conduction velocity and nerve sorbitol content, whereas there was none between motor nerve conduction velocity and myo-inositol content. The present study indicates that M16209 and M16287 are potent aldose reductase inhibitors expected to be useful for the treatment of diabetic complications.
The efficacy of intraperitoneal pancreatic islet isografts in the reversal of diabetes in rats.	The peritoneal cavity is of renewed interest for pancreatic islet transplantation, since it is the preferable site for transplantation of immunoisolated islets. In this study we investigated the minimum islet graft volume needed to restore normoglycemia after free intraperitoneal isogenic transplantation in streptozotocin diabetic rats. Furthermore, graft function was tested by measuring glucose and insulin response to an intravenous glucose load and spontaneously ingested carbohydrate-rich meal. Three graft volumes were used: 8.0-10.0 (group A); 4.0-5.0 (group B); and 2.0-2.3 microliters (group C); 1 microliter contained about 300 islets. All 10 rats in group A and 7 out of 9 rats in group B became normoglycemic for at least 6 months posttransplant, with blood glucose levels not significantly different from normal control animals. Only 3 out of 9 animals in group C became normoglycemic and never for longer than 3 months. The insulin responses to IVGTT in group A and group B were proportional to the grafted islet volume and always significantly lower than those of normal control rats. The insulin response to the test meal showed a similar tendency, which was found to be associated with the absence of preabsorptive insulin secretion. Maximum postprandial blood glucose levels in group A and group B were 0.8 and 1.5 mM higher than in normal control rats. We conclude that intraperitoneal transplantation of at least 4.0-5.0-microliters islet tissue is needed to reverse blood glucose in streptozotocin diabetic rats, and that glucose and insulin levels on IVGTT and test meal in rats with islet grafts of 8.0-10.0 microliters are not completely normalized. It is suggested that the impaired glucose tolerance is due to an insufficient beta-cell mass and a lack of parasympathetic innervation of the transplanted islet tissue.
Ultrastructural study of the prevertebral ganglia in experimental diabetes]	Prevertebral ganglia of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes have been studied by electron microscope, in different periods of evolution of the illness. The cytoplasm of the ganglion cells showed dense deposits of neurofilaments and several degenerative changes as vacuolization and accumulation of residual bodies. The unmyelinated axons were markedly swollen showing degenerative and dystrophic changes which increased with the duration of the diabetes. Control animals of the same age did not show this type of changes.
Examination of monocyte adherence to endothelium under hyperglycemic conditions.	Increased nonenzymatic glycation of proteins has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic vascular disease. The authors have shown by 3H-NaBH4 reduction of nonenzymatic glycation adducts that endothelial cell membrane proteins undergo increased nonenzymatic glycation in vitro when exposed to elevated concentrations of glucose. Increased nonenzymatic glycation also was found in vivo for microvascular endothelial cells isolated from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats compared with control rats. Cultured monocytes have previously been reported to express receptors for certain nonenzymatic glycation adducts. The authors have further investigated whether monocyte interactions with endothelium are altered by the presence of nonenzymatic glycation adducts on endothelium. Adherence assays were performed in the presence of elevated concentrations of glucose with decreased NaCl levels to maintain normal osmolarity (as occurs physiologically). Although monocyte adherence to endothelium and levels of early nonenzymatic glycation adducts increased under these conditions, the increased adherence appears to be due to the altered NaCl levels. In fact, freshly isolated monocytes (in contrast to what has been found for macrophages and activated monocytes) were shown not to express appreciable numbers of receptors for nonenzymatic glycation adducts.
The effects of maternal diabetes on the offspring.	Diabetes in pregnancy has an influence on the development of the fetus. There are strong indications that the intrauterine diabetic milieu has long-lasting consequences. In the rat, mild diabetes during pregnancy induces decreased insulin secretion in later life, whereas severe diabetes is responsible for insulin resistance. In the human, data are available showing a long-term consequence in the offspring of type I diabetes and gestational diabetes mellitus.
Different responses to maternal diabetes during the first and second half of gestation in the streptozotocin-treated rat.	To understand the mechanism of exaggerated hypertriglyceridemia in diabetic pregnancy, streptozotocin-treated rats receiving a daily insulin supplement were mated with normal males and divided into four groups: i) kept under this regime until the 20th day of gestation (DI + II), ii) the same regime until the 12th day of gestation (DI), iii) the insulin treatment was suspended during the first half of gestation (days 0-12) and then restored on a daily basis until the 20th day (DII), and iv) no insulin treatment was given after mating (D). All animals were studied on day 20. Despite increased food intake, maternal conceptus-free body weight was greatly reduced in the D animals as compared with the other groups whose values did not differ. Both the plasma glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate levels were increased more in D than in DI rats and values in both groups were greater than in the others. Insulin levels showed an opposite trend to that of glucose, but the values in DI + II rats were higher than in untreated intact control rats (C). The plasma triglyceride concentration was highest in the DI rats, followed by the D group whose values were still significantly higher than in either C or DI + II rats. Plasma free fatty acid levels were lower in D than in any of the other groups, although they were also lower in DI + II and DI than in C animals. Adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase activity was highest in DI + II animals and their values were very similar to those found in DII, whereas the values in the C, D and DI animals were all similar and much lower. Results indicate that reductions in fat accumulation during the first half of gestation impair the activation of lipolytic activity in the severe diabetic mother during late gestation. During this period lipolysis helps sustain maximal hypertriglyceridemia, which develops in animals whose diabetes was circumscribed to the second half of gestation. In general, our findings show that anabolic changes during the first half of gestation affect metabolic events during late gestation.
Placental glycogen metabolism in diabetic pregnancy.	Glycogen content in the normal placenta decreases gradually towards term. However, in human diabetes and in rat streptozotocin diabetes two- to tenfold increases in placental glycogen level were found during the pregnancy. This elevation was evident in rats per tissue weight, protein or DNA content and was also seen in insulin-treated and gestational diabetics. Electron microscopic investigation of diabetic rat placenta revealed glycogen deposition in the typical glycogen cells, also in junctional zone cells and in all cells of the placental labyrinth. Placental glycogen accumulation in diabetes occurs in marked contrast to other tissues, such as maternal liver, from which glycogen disappears. Liver and muscle glycogenesis and glycogenolysis are under insulin control, by regulation of the activities of glycogen synthase and phosphorylase. However, in the placenta these enzymes are not meaningfully influenced by insulin in in vivo and in vitro studies. In our and other laboratories the activities of both enzymes somewhat increased or decreased, showing no trend conducive to glycogen accumulation. Placenta is glucose dependent, but the role of insulin in its carbohydrate metabolism is doubtful. Despite the high placental concentration of insulin receptors no metabolic outcome has yet been pointed out. Glycogen accumulation in the placenta of diabetic rats was found to be related to the extent of maternal hyperglycemia. The resultant markedly increased intracellular level of glucose-6-phosphate accelerates glycogen synthesis b. Glucose itself activates glycogen synthase and deactivates glycogen phosphorylase. Continuous glucose infusion to non-diabetic pregnant rats on gestation days 18-21 likewise also caused an increase in placental glycogen in correlation with hyperglycemia. The possibility that placental glycogen is under the control of fetal rather than maternal insulin was explored by producing insulin deficiency through intrafetal streptozotocin injection. There was no effect of fetal "diabetes" on placental glycogen synthesis or on the distribution of placental glycogen between the maternal and fetal segments of the placenta, while it caused a marked decrease in the fetal liver glycogen content and fetal body weight. To assess the availability of placental glycogen as an energy source the placental glycogenolysis was investigated after hormonal stimulation. Catecholamines were effective in inducing lactate formation both in vivo and in vitro in nondiabetic and diabetic rats. Protracted activation of the adenylate cyclase system by cholera toxin administration pronouncedly reduced placental glycogen in vivo.
Effect of piroxicam on the blood-retina barrier in experimentally induced diabetes in rats.	The effect of piroxicam on the blood-retina barrier was evaluated in rats with experimentally induced diabetes. Diabetes was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of streptozocin (STZ). Diabetic rats were divided into two equal groups: those treated with piroxicam, a long-acting platelet inhibitor, and an untreated control group. Vitreous fluorophotometry (VFP) was performed both before and two weeks after induction of diabetes and piroxicam intake. Streptozocin-induced diabetes caused an alteration in the blood-retinal barrier evidenced by an increase in vitreous fluorescein concentration in diabetic rats compared with normal rats. Piroxicam intake did not lead to significant change in vitreous fluorescein concentrations. However, the examination had to be terminated at two weeks because of cataract formation. The piroxicam treated group showed less incidence of lens opacity formation (59.1% compared to 81.8% in the untreated group, p = 0.0006). Piroxicam administration appears to protect the diabetic rat eye against lens opacification.
Extracranial and mandibular augmentation with hydroxyapatite-collagen in induced diabetic and nondiabetic rats.	This study evaluated three hydroxyapatite (HA) preparations placed subperiosteally in rats given streptozotocin (70 mg/kg) to induce diabetes (ID) (n = 24) and in nondiabetic (ND) rats (n = 24) used as controls. Implants of 1) nonporous HA granules (HAG), 2) HA granules hand-mixed with bovine collagen (HACM), and 3) HA granules and purified fibrillar collagen in a preprocessed block (PFC-HA) were randomly placed in subperiosteal pockets created on the cranium and adjacent to the left/right mandibles of each rat. Six rats from each group were killed at 3, 6, 12, and 24 weeks postimplantation. Animals killed after 3 weeks showed sporadic bone proliferation and bone resorption, whereas those killed after 6, 12, and 24 weeks showed formation of new bone at the implant/bone interface. Contact of the implant with bone was a requirement for osteogenesis, but bone formed only into the basilar layers of the implants. The ID group showed the greatest inflammatory response as well as the greatest degree of osteogenesis at all intervals of time. The addition of collagen to HA appeared to reduce the inflammatory response. Specimens implanted with HACM showed the least inflammation of the three implanted materials in both ID and ND groups.
Influence of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on adenylate cyclase activity in cultured type II pneumocytes.	Previous studies with cultured type II pneumocytes from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats demonstrated altered surfactant synthesis and secretion. The effects of the diabetic state were reversed by in vivo but not in vitro insulin treatment. In the current study, cultured type II pneumocytes from control and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were demonstrated to possess approximately 17,500 and 8,500 receptors per cell, respectively. High-affinity binding sites were determined to have a dissociation constant of 0.429 nM and 0.203 nM for control and diabetic cells, respectively. Functional capacity of the insulin receptors was determined by the initial rates of 2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake. Uptake was stimulated by insulin in a dose-dependent manner and was not significantly altered by the diabetic state. This would suggest that the insulin receptor was present and functioning in cells isolated from diabetic rats. Basal adenylate cyclase activity of type II cell homogenates from diabetic rats was shown to be 16% of that for controls. In addition, isoproterenol, guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP), and NaF were unable to stimulate adenylate cyclase activity. However, forskolin, which directly activates the catalytic subunit of adenylate cyclase, was able to increase the cellular content of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) in this model. This would suggest that some step prior to adenylate cyclase but not the catalytic subunit was altered by the diabetic state. But forskolin was unable to restore surfactant secretion, suggesting that in addition to adenylate cyclase, other processes are affected by the diabetic state. The effects of the diabetic state on adenylate cyclase and surfactant secretion were reversed by in vivo but not in vitro insulin treatment.
Involvement of inducible nitric oxide synthase in hydroxyl radical-mediated lipid peroxidation in streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	Free radical production is implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus, where several pathways and different mechanisms were suggested in the pathophysiology of the complications. In this study, we used electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy combined with in vivo spin-trapping techniques to investigate the sources and mechanisms of free radical formation in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Free radical production was directly detected in the diabetic bile, which correlated with lipid peroxidation in the liver and kidney. EPR spectra showed the trapping of a lipid-derived radical. Such radicals were demonstrated to be induced by hydroxyl radical through isotope-labeling experiments. Multiple enzymes and metabolic pathways were examined as the potential source of the hydroxyl radicals using specific inhibitors. No xanthine oxidase, cytochrome P450s, the Fenton reaction, or macrophage activation were required for the production of radical adducts. Interestingly, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) (apparently uncoupled) was identified as the major source of radical generation. The specific iNOS inhibitor 1400W as well as L-arginine pretreatment reduced the EPR signals to baseline levels, implicating peroxynitrite as the source of hydroxyl radical production. Applying immunological techniques, we localized iNOS overexpression in the liver and kidney of diabetic animals, which was closely correlated with the lipid radical generation and 4-hydroxynonenal-adducted protein formation, indicating lipid peroxidation. In addition, protein tyrosine nitration occurred in the diabetic target organs. Taken together, our studies support inducible nitric oxide synthase as a significant source of EPR-detectable reactive intermediates, which leads to lipid peroxidation and may contribute to disease progression as well.
Magnesium ions and opioid agonist activity in streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia.	Streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia accompanied by a chronic decrease in the nociceptive threshold is considered a useful model of experimental hyperalgesia. We examined (1) the effect of the opioid receptor agonists and (2) the effect of the magnesium ions (Mg(2+)) on the antinociceptive action of opioid agonists in a diabetic neuropathic pain model. When administered alone, opioid agonists like morphine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and fentanyl (0.0625 mg/kg i.p.), as well as the partial agonist buprenorphine (0.075 mg/kg) had only little effect on streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia. However, pretreatment with Mg(2+) at a dose of 40 mg magnesium sulfate/kg i.p. markedly enhanced the analgesic activity of all three investigated opioids. Practical aspects of co-administration of magnesium and opioids in diabetic neuropathy are discussed.
Myocardial ischemic-reperfusion injury in a rat model of metabolic syndrome.	Hearts of NaCl-induced hypertensive-glucose intolerant (HGI) rats develop reduced infarcts after ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) than their hypertensive (H) counterparts. Because high intake of saturated fat is a major risk factor for ischemic heart disease, we tested the hypothesis that chronic (18 weeks) consumption of a high saturated fat diet increases susceptibility to IRI, an effect more marked in the HGI rats than in the H rats. The fat-fed H (HFAT) rat displayed significantly higher body weight and plasma leptin content compared to the H, HGI, or fat-fed HGI (HGIFAT) rats which all showed similar values. In contrast, plasma triglyceride concentration was significantly higher in the HGIFAT rat than in the other three groups. Plasma insulin concentration was similar in the two H groups but higher than that of the two HGI groups. Compared to the H rat, the HGI rat was markedly glucose intolerant, with fat feeding causing comparable worsening of glucose intolerance in each group. The HGIFAT rats displayed a reduction in baseline myocardial contractility and relaxation and a higher end-diastolic pressure compared to the other three groups. Infarct size was significantly lower in the HGI rats than in the H rats. Although fat feeding did not affect infarct size of the H rat, it worsened that of the HGIFAT rat thereby abrogating the differential that existed between the H and HGI rats. In conclusion, excess fat feeding impairs myocardial function of HGI rats and increases their susceptibility to IRI. These findings are of relevance to the metabolic syndrome that manifests as a cluster of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and systemic hypertension.
Effect of cannabinoid receptor agonists on streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia in diabetic neuropathy.	The effect of CB-1 and CB-2 receptor agonists, as well as an influence of a non-selective inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), L-NOArg, and an inhibitor acting preferentially on cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), indomethacin, on the action of cannabinoid receptor agonists in a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced neuropathic model was investigated. When administered alone, a non-selective cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, a potentially selective CB-1 cannabinoid receptor agonist, Met-F-AEA, and a selective CB-2 cannabinoid receptor agonist, AM1241, dose-dependently reduced STZ-induced hyperalgesia. The results of the present study also demonstrated that inhibitors of COX and NOS increase antihyperalgesic activity of low doses of CB-1 and CB-2 receptor agonists. Hypothetical consequences of this phenomenon are discussed.
Enhancement of glucose toxicity by hyperbaric oxygen exposure in diabetic rats.	The side effects of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) treatment, such as oxidative stress and oxygen toxicity, have long been of interest. However, there are no comprehensive studies evaluating such toxic effects in diabetes mellitus (DM). The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of HBO on glucose homeostasis and histological changes in pancreatic beta-cells of experimentally induced diabetic rats. A total of 24 male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups: 1) Control group, no diabetic induction without HBO treatment; 2) HBO group, exposed to 100% oxygen at 2.8 ATA (atmosphere absolute) for 2 h once daily, for 7 days; 3) DM group, diabetes induced by streptozotocin (STZ) injection; and 4) DM + HBO group, received both STZ injection and HBO exposure. HBO treatment, with clinically recommended pressures and duration of therapy, was started on day 5 after STZ injection, when the blood glucose levels were significantly increased. After the last HBO treatment, the pancreatic tissues were immunostained to measure the areas of insulin immunoreactive beta-cells in the islets of Langerhans. The blood glucose increased significantly following exposure to HBO, with the highest levels achieved in rats, which had been treated with both HBO and diabetic induction. The area populated with insulin immunoreactive beta-cells decreased significantly following diabetic induction and/or HBO exposure, with the smallest area in DM + HBO group. Thus, HBO exposure enhanced the cytotoxic effect of STZ in the beta-cells of the pancreas. HBO should be cautiously employed in diabetic patients.
Combination therapy with AT1 blocker and vitamin D analog markedly ameliorates diabetic nephropathy: blockade of compensatory renin increase.	The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) plays a critical role in the development of diabetic nephropathy, and blockade of the RAS is currently used for treatment of diabetic nephropathy. One major problem for the current RAS inhibitors is the compensatory renin increase, which reduces the efficacy of RAS inhibition. We have shown that vitamin D exerts renoprotective actions by transcriptionally suppressing renin. Here we demonstrated that combination therapy with an AT1 receptor blocker and a vitamin D analog markedly ameliorated renal injury in the streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes model due to the blockade of the compensatory renin rise by the vitamin D analog, leading to more effective RAS inhibition. STZ-treated diabetic DBA/2J mice developed progressive albuminuria and glomerulosclerosis within 13 weeks, accompanied by increased intrarenal production of angiotensin (Ang) II, fibronection, TGF-beta, and MCP-1 and decreased expression of slit diaphragm proteins. Treatment of the diabetic mice with losartan or paricalcitol (19-nor-1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2), an activated vitamin D analog) alone moderately ameliorated kidney injury; however, combined treatment with losartan and paricalcitol completely prevented albuminuria, restored glomerular filtration barrier structure, and markedly reduced glomerulosclerosis. The combined treatment suppressed the induction of fibronection, TGF-beta, and MCP-1 and reversed the decline of slit diaphragm proteins nephrin, Neph-1, ZO-1, and alpha-actinin-4. These were accompanied by blockade of intrarenal renin and Ang II accumulation induced by hyperglycemia and losartan. These data demonstrate that inhibition of the RAS with combination of vitamin D analogs and RAS inhibitors effectively prevents renal injury in diabetic nephropathy.
Evaluation of Bcl-2 family gene expression and Caspase-3 activity in hippocampus STZ-induced diabetic rats.	We assessed the expression of Bcl-2 family members at both mRNA and protein levels as well as the Caspase-3 activity, in order to investigate the occurrence of apoptosis in hippocampus of STZ-induced diabetic rats. We selected twenty-four Wistar rats; half of them were made diabetic by intraperitoneal injection of a single 60 mg/kg dose of streptozotocin (STZ, IP), while the others received normal saline and served as controls. The expressions of Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L), and Bax mRNA and proteins were measured using RT-PCR and western blotting, respectively. Caspases-3 activity was determined by using the Caspase-3/CPP32 Fluorometric Assay Kit. The result showed that mRNA and protein levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) were lower in hippocampus of diabetic group than that of the control group, whereas expressions of Bax in hippocampus of diabetic rats were higher than that of controls at both mRNA and protein levels (P < .01). Hyperglycemia was found to raise 6.9-fold hippocampal caspase-3 activity in diabetic group compared with control group (P < .001). Therefore, the induction of diabetes is associated with increased ratios of Bax/Bcl-2, Bax/Bcl-x(L), and increased caspase-3 activity in hippocampus which shows that apoptosis is favored in hippocampal region.
Effects of experimentally induced diabetes mellitus on pharmacologically and electrically elicited myometrial contractility.	1. Diabetes is one of the most frequent complications of gestation, affecting approximately 7% of pregnancies. However, little is known about its effects on electrically and pharmacologically stimulated myometrial contractility. The aim of the present study was to investigate the consequences of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes on: (i) electrical field stimulation (EFS)-evoked contraction of isolated uterine rings as a function of gestational age; and (ii) the uterotonic and tocolytic actions of - and -adrenoceptor stimulation, respectively. The effects of oxytocin in late pregnancy were also investigated. 2. During pregnancy, EFS-evoked contractions of isolated uterine rings from intact rats declined, whereas isolated uterine rings from diabetic rats exhibited continuously low sensitivity to EFS. 3. In non-pregnant rats, diabetes resulted in increased noradrenaline-mediated contractility and a decreased relaxation response to terbutaline. At the mRNA level, diabetes enhanced the expression of 1B-adrenoceptors in non-pregnant rats from 14.65 to 18.39 g/mL (P < 0.05), whereas the expression of 1D-adrenoceptors decreased (from 42.87 to 35.67 g/mL; P < 0.05). During pregnancy, the responses to these sympathomimetics did not differ between diabetic and intact rats. 4. In late pregnancy (on Days 15 and 21), oxytocin caused greater maximum contractility of uterine rings from diabetic rats without affecting the EC(50). In addition, on Day 15 of pregnancy, the expression of oxytocin receptors in the myometrium of diabetic rats was higher than that in intact rats. 5. The results of the present study indicate that experimental diabetes facilitates gestation-induced denervation and increases myometrial sensitivity to oxytocin in late pregnancy. If similar mechanisms operate in humans, this could contribute to a tendency to premature uterine contractions in diabetes-complicated pregnancies.
Anti-diabetic effects of emodin involved in the activation of PPARgamma on high-fat diet-fed and low dose of streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice.	Rheum palmatum Linn has been widely applied in the clinical treatment of diabetes mellitus. It has been found that emodin as the major bioactive component of R. palmatum L exhibits the competency to activate peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) in vitro. So the aim of this study was to evaluate the anti-diabetic effects of emodin through the activation of PPARgamma on high-fat diet-fed and low dose of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. The diabetic mice were intraperitoneally injected with emodin for three weeks. No changes of food consumption and the body weight in emodin-treated mice were monitored daily during the entire experiment. At the end of experiment, the levels of blood glucose, triglyceride and total cholesterol in serum were significantly decreased after emodin treatment. However, serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc) concentration was significantly elevated. The glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in emodin-treated group were significantly improved. Furthermore, the results of quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that emodin significantly elevated the mRNA expression level of PPARgamma and regulated the mRNA expressions of LPL, FAT/CD36, resistin and FABPs (ap2) in liver and adipocyte tissues. No effects on the mRNA expressions of PPARalpha and PPARalpha-target genes were observed. Taken together, the results suggested that the activation of PPARgamma and the modulation of metabolism-related genes were likely involved in the anti-diabetic effects of emodin.
1-methylnicotinamide (MNA) in prevention of diabetes-associated brain disorders.	The present study has been designed to establish the potential benefits from 1-methylnicotinamide (MNA) treatment on brain disorders associated with type 1 diabetes. All experiments were carried out after 6 weeks of streptozotocin-induced diabetes (60 mg/kg of body weight, i.p.) in male Wistar rats treated for 5 weeks with or without MNA (100 mg/kg of body weight, per os in drinking water) after 1 week of diabetes induction. Diabetes was shown to reduce monoamine neurotransmitter serotonin transporters activity, as assessed by significant inhibition of [2-(14)C]serotonin uptake, that was accompanied by elevation of spontaneous mediator release in rat brain synaptosomes. Treatment with MNA slightly attenuated diabetes-induced changes in brain serotoninergic system. The precise mechanism underlying MNA action on central serotonin neurotransmission is not known, but appears to be linked to metabolic and signalling pathways involved in controlling synaptic function rather than being associated with direct modulation of serotonin transporters. In particular, MNA action was associated with its partial normalizing effects on such biochemical indices of neuropathy development as decrease in synaptosomal Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity and plasma membrane depolarization of synaptic endings. Elevated sorbitol formation in brain and NAD(+) deficits resulted from diabetes as major metabolic imbalances were remarkably countered by MNA treatment. However, diabetes-induced decrease in cytosolic NAD(+) to NADH ratio in brain remained unchanged. Notably, MNA supplementation to diabetic rats caused a slight lowering effect on blood glucose level. Accordingly, our findings indicate that neuroprotective properties of MNA are linked to modulation of synaptic activity through multiple mechanisms. In conclusion, we suggest that 1-methylnicotinamide might be a useful agent for treating brain failures related to diabetes.
Molecular targets for diabetes mellitus-associated erectile dysfunction.	Protein expression profiles in rat corporal smooth muscle tissue were compared between animal models of streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus (STZ-DM) and age-matched controls (AMCs) at 1 week and 2 months after induction of hyperglycemia with STZ treatment. At each time point, protein samples from four STZ-DM and four AMC rat corpora tissues were prepared independently and analyzed together across multiple quantitative two-dimensional gels using a pooled internal standard sample to quantify expression changes with statistical confidence. A total of 170 spots were differential expressed among the four experimental groups. A subsequent mass spectrometry analysis of the 170 spots identified a total of 57 unique proteins. Network analysis of these proteins using MetaCore suggested altered activity of transcriptional factors that are of too low abundance to be detected by the two-dimensional gel method. The proteins that were down-regulated with diabetes include isoforms of collagen that are precursors to fibril-forming collagen type 1; Hsp47, which assists and mediates the proper folding of procollagen; and several proteins whose abundance is controlled by sex hormones (e.g. CRP1 and A2U). On the other hand, proteins seen or predicted to be up-regulated include proteins involved in cell apoptosis (e.g. p53, 14-3-3-gamma, Serpinf1, Cct4, Cct5, and Sepina3n), proteins that neutralize the biological activity of nerve growth factor (e.g. anti-NGF 30), and proteins involved in lipid metabolism (e.g. apoA-I and apoA-IV). Subsequent Western blot validation analysis of p53, 14-3-3-gamma, and Hsp47 confirmed increased p53 and 14-3-3-gamma and decreased Hsp47 levels in separate samples. According to the results from the Western blot analysis, Hsp47 protein showed a approximately 3-fold decrease at 1 week and was virtually undetectable at 2 months in diabetic versus control. Taken together, our results identify novel candidate proteins playing a role in erectile dysfunction in diabetes resulting from STZ treatment.
Diabetic conditions promote binding of monocytes to vascular smooth muscle cells and their subsequent differentiation.	Diabetes is associated with significantly accelerated rates of atherosclerosis, key features of which include the presence of excessive macrophage-derived foam cells in the subendothelial space. We examined the hypothesis that enhanced monocyte-vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) interactions leading to subendothelial monocyte retention and differentiation to macrophages under diabetic conditions may be underlying mechanisms. Human aortic VSMCs (HVSMCs) treated with diabetic stimuli high glucose (HG) or S100B, a ligand of the receptor for advanced glycation end products, exhibited significantly increased binding of THP-1 monocytic cells. Diabetic stimuli increased the expression of the adhesive chemokine fractalkine (FKN) in HVSMCs. Pretreatment of HVSMCs with FKN or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) neutralizing antibodies significantly inhibited monocyte-VSMC binding, whereas monocytes treated with FKN showed enhanced binding to VSMC. Mouse aortic VSMCs (MVSMCs) derived from type 2 diabetic db/db mice exhibited significantly increased FKN levels and binding to mouse WEHI78/24 monocytic cells relative to nondiabetic control db/+ cells. The enhanced monocyte binding in db/db cells was abolished by both FKN and MCP-1 antibodies. Endothelium-denuded aortas from db/db mice and streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice also exhibited enhanced FKN expression and monocyte binding, relative to respective controls. Coculture with HVSMCs increased CD36 expression in THP-1 cells, and this was significantly augmented by treatment of HVSMCs with S100B or HG. CD36 mRNA and protein levels were also significantly increased in WEHI78/24 cells after coincubation with db/db MVSMCs relative to control MVSMCs. These results demonstrate that diabetic conditions may accelerate atherosclerosis by inducing key chemokines in the vasculature that promote VSMC-monocyte interactions, subendothelial monocyte retention, and differentiation.
Resveratrol, an activator of SIRT1, upregulates sarcoplasmic calcium ATPase and improves cardiac function in diabetic cardiomyopathy.	Reduced sarcoplasmic calcium ATPase (SERCA2a) expression has been shown to play a significant role in the cardiac dysfunction in diabetic cardiomyopathy. The mechanism of SERCA2a repression is, however, not known. This study was designed to examine the effect of resveratrol (RSV), a potent activator of SIRT1, on cardiac function and SERCA2a expression in chronic type 1 diabetes. Adult male mice were injected with streptozotocin (STZ) and fed with either a regular diet or a diet enriched with RSV. STZ administration produced progressive decline in cardiac function, associated with markedly reduced SERCA2a and SIRT1 protein levels and increased collagen deposition; RSV treatment to these mice had a tremendous beneficial effect both in terms of improving SERCA2a expression and on cardiac function. In cultured cardiomyocytes, RSV restored SERCA2 promoter activity, which was otherwise highly repressed in high-glucose media. Protective effects of RSV were found to be dependent on its ability to activate Silent information regulator (SIRT) 1. In cardiomyocytes, overexpression of SIRT1 was found sufficient to activate SERCA2 promoter in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, pretreatment of cardiomyocytes with SIRT1 antagonist, splitomycin, blocked these beneficial effects of RSV. In addition, SIRT1 knockout (+/-) mice were also found to be more sensitive to STZ-induced decline in SERCA2a mRNA. The data demonstrate that, in chronic diabetes, 1) the enzymatic activity of cardiac SIRT1 is reduced, which contributes to reduced expression of SERCA2a and 2) through activation of SIRT1, RSV enhances expression of SERCA2a and improves cardiac function.
Uncoupling protein-2 negatively regulates polymorphonuclear leukocytes chemotaxis via modulating [Ca2+] influx.	Previous studies demonstrated that uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) plays a negative role in modulating leukocyte inflammatory responses. The mechanism underneath the role of UCP2 in modulating leukocyte inflammatory responses, however, is incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the effect of UCP2 in polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) chemotaxis.
Isolation and characterization of a novel antihyperglycemic protein from the fruits of Momordica cymbalaria.	A new antihyperglycemic protein was identified in the aqueous extract of fruits of Momordica cymbalaria by bioassay-guided fractionation. The study was aimed at isolation and characterization of this protein.
Diabetes mellitus induces bone marrow microangiopathy.	The impact of diabetes on the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment was not adequately explored. We investigated whether diabetes induces microvascular remodeling with negative consequence for BM homeostasis.
Enhanced NMDAR1, NMDA2B and mGlu5 receptors gene expression in the cerebellum of insulin induced hypoglycaemic and streptozotocin induced diabetic rats.	Glucose homeostasis in humans is an important factor for the functioning of the nervous system. A decrease in glucose content below a minimal level or hypoglycemia is dangerous for cells of the central and peripheral nerve system. In the present study we showed the effects of insulin induced hypoglycaemia and streptozotocin induced diabetes on the cerebellar glutamate receptor subunits and glutamate transporter. Cerebellar dysfunction is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits and memory impairment. We found an up regulation in NMDA receptor number and gene expression of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA(R1)), NMDA(2B), metabotrophic glutamate 5 (mGlu(5)) glutamate receptor subunits in experimental rats. The glutamate content was shown to be increased with decreased glutamate aspartate transporter (GLAST) gene expressions indicating lower reuptake of glutamate. The enhanced gene expression of NMDA(R1), NMDA(2B), mGlu(5) glutamate receptors were confirmed by immunohistochemistry studies. At the second messenger level, the IP3 content and IP3 receptors were enhanced in the cerebellum of both hypoglycaemic and diabetic rats increased. The present study showed that the enhanced glutamate content activates NMDA receptors, increasing the inositol triphosphate (IP3) content which mediates Ca(2+) overload in cells causing cell damage and neurodegeneration. Our results also showed that the enhanced glutamate receptor activity were more prominent in hypoglycaemic group compared to diabetic group. Further the neurodegeneration by the up regulation of glutamate receptor activity causing motor dysfunction was demonstrated by the Rotarod test. Thus our results suggest that enhanced NMDA receptor mediated neurodegeneration affect the motor learning and memory ability of an individual.
Sildenafil and glyceryl trinitrate reduce tactile allodynia in streptozotocin-injected rats.	The possible antiallodynic effect of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor sildenafil and nitric oxide donor glyceryl trinitrate as well as the changes in phosphodiesterase 5A2 mRNA expression in dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord of allodynic diabetic rats was assessed. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin (50mg/kg, i.p.) in male Wistar rats. Streptozotocin injection produced hyperlglycemia, polydipsia, polyphagia and polyuria as well as long-term tactile allodynia (12 weeks) and a reduction of phosphodiesterase 5A2 mRNA expression in spinal cord of diabetic rats. Systemic administration of sildenafil (1-5.6 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced tactile allodynia in a dose-dependent manner in diabetic rats. Likewise, glyceryl trinitrate patches (0.2mg/h) also reduced tactile allodynia in diabetic rats. Moreover, both drugs reversed streptozotocin-induced phosphodiesterase 5A2 mRNA expression reduction. Our results indicate that glyceryl trinitrate and sildenafil reduce tactile allodynia in diabetic rats suggesting that nitric oxide and cyclic GMP supply is an important step in their mechanism of action of these drugs in diabetic animals. Data suggest that nitric oxide donors (as glyceryl trinitrate) and drugs which increase cyclic GMP levels (as sildenafil) could have a role in the pharmacotherapy of tactile allodynia in diabetic patients.
The protective effect of testosterone on streptozotocin-induced apoptosis in beta cells is sex specific.	To investigate the protective role of steroid hormones on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced apoptosis in rat pancreatic beta cells.
Real-time ischemic condition monitoring in normoglycemic and hyperglycemic rats.	An increase in excitotoxic amino acid glutamate (GLU) concentration associated with neuronal damage might be the cause of the ischemic damage observed in stroke patients suffering from hyperglycemia. However, the effect has never been investigated by real-time in vivo monitoring. Therefore, this study examined the effects of the functional responses of ischemia-evoked electroencephalography (EEG), cerebral blood flow (%CBF) and DeltaGLU in hyperglycemia through real-time in vivo monitoring. Five Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with streptozocin (hyperglycemia) and five normal rats were used as the controls. Global ischemia was induced using an 11-vessel occlusion model. The experimental protocols consisting of 10 min pre-ischemic, 10 min ischemic and 40 min reperfusion periods were applied to both groups. Under these conditions, the responses of the ischemia-evoked EEG, %CBF and DeltaGLU were monitored in real time. The EEG showed flat patterns during ischemia followed by poor recovery during reperfusion. The peak reperfusion %CBF was decreased significantly in the hyperglycemia group compared to the control group (p < 0.05, n = 5). The extracellular DeltaGLU releases increased significantly during ischemia (p < 0.0001, n = 5) and reperfusion (p < 0.001, n = 5) in the hyperglycemia group compared to the control group. The decrease in reperfusion %CBF during short-term hyperglycemia might be related to the increased plasma osmolality, decreased adenosine levels and swollen endothelial cells with decreased vascular luminal diameters under hyperglycemic conditions. And, the increase in DeltaGLU during short-term hyperglycemia might be related to the neurotoxic effects of the high extracellular concentrations of DeltaGLU and the inhibition of GLU uptake.
Effect of the novel nootropic and neuroprotective dipeptide noopept on the streptozotocin-induced model of sporadic Alzheimer disease in rats]	Streptozotocin-intracerebroventricularly treated rats are proposed as an experimental model of sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD). Diabetogenic toxin streptozotocin (STZ) administered in both cerebral ventricles in a dose of 3 mg/kg decreases the expression of NGF and BDNF mainly in the hippocampus and increases the content of malonic dialdehyde (MDA)--a product of lipid peroxidation--in the brain tissues. These metabolic changes are accompanied by a pronounced cognitive deficiency, which is manifested by long-term memory deterioration in the passive avoidance test. These manifestations of pathology are not accompanied by hyperglycemia in the case of intraventricular STZ administration, in contrast to the systemic (in particular, intraperitoneal) route of introduction that causes a pronounced increase in the blood glucose level. These results are consistent with the existing notions that (i) STZ administered intraventricularly provokes a complex of changes imitating the sporadic AD and (ii) this disease can be considered as a manifestation of type-III diabetes. The new original cognition enhancing and neuroprotective dipeptide noopept decreases the aforementioned metabolic changes and the accompanying long-term deterioration of the memory. Previously, this systemically active dipeptide was shown to be capable of increasing expression of NGF and BDNF in the hippocampus, stimulating the antibody production to beta-amyloid, inhibiting the lipid peroxidation, activating the endogenous antioxidant systems, and decreasing the rate of glutamate release (cholinopositive effect). Taken together, these data indicate that noopept can be considered as a multipotent substance acting upon several important pathogenic chainsof the sporadic AD.
Streptozotocin-induced pancreatic insulitis in mice. Morphologic and physiologic studies.	Pancreatic insulitis and diabetes mellitus were induced in Charles River CD-1 mice with five subdiabetogenic injections of streptozotocin. Plasma glucose and immunoreactive insulin levels were measured and animals were sacrificed at intervals for morphologic studies of pancreatic islets and measurements of extractable pancreatic immunoreactive insulin. Light microscopy revealed striking insulitis, 5 to 6 days after streptozotocin injections, with cell necrosis and eventual islet atrophy due to beta-cell necrosis, and numerous type C viruses within many of the surviving beta-cells. Light microscopic immunoperoxidase stains of islet cell hormones and electron microscopy identified relatively increased numbers of alpha- and delta-cells within the atrophic islets 6 and 12 months after streptozotocin injections. Plasma  glucose, plasma immunoreactive insulin, and extractable pancreatic immunoreactive insulin measurements documented the persistence of profound hyperglycemia, as well as the reduction of plasma and pancreatic immunoreactive insulin levels. Immunofluorescence studies demonstrated the absence of circulating islet cell antibodies during both the acute and chronic stages of the syndrome. The pathogenesis of this model of insulin-deficient diabetes is believed to be a cell-mediated autoimmune reaction directed against pancreatic beta-cells altered by subdiabetogenic injections of streptozotocin. The importance of the increased number of type C viruses within surviving beta-cells remains obscure.
Renal expression of proto-oncogene Ets-1 on matrix remodeling in experimental diabetic nephropathy.	The molecular mechanisms of glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis in diabetic nephropathy (DN) have received scant attention. Ets-1 proto-oncogene plays a role in matrix remodeling by regulating matrix-degrading enzymes. We investigated the possible role of Ets-1 in the pathogenesis of DN. 6-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into two experimental groups as follows: control group (n=30) and a Diabetes mellitus group (n=40) induced by injection of streptozotozin (STZ). The rats were investigated at 1, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks after STZ-treatment. By means of immunohistochemistry, the expression of Ets-1 in glomeruli was significantly increased in STZ-treated rat kidneys from week 1 (P<0.05) and reached the peak at week 4 (P<0.05), followed by a downward trend at subsequent time points. Similarly, the expression of Ets-1 in the tubulointerstitium was also markedly increased from week 1 (P<0.05) and reached a maximum at week 8 (P<0.05). By double immunostaining, Ets-1-positive cells were frequently found to co-express matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) in STZ-treated rat kidneys. Increased expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) coincided with increased expression of -smooth muscle actin (-SMA) in STZ-induced DN. A positive relationship was observed between the expression of Ets-1 in glomeruli or tubulointerstitium and the expression of MMP-2 (P<0.01; P<0.01, respectively) in STZ-treated rat kidneys. The ratio of MMP-2 and TIMP-2 in glomeruli or tubulointerstitium was negatively correlated with deposition of type IV collagen (P<0.01; P<0.01, respectively). These findings suggest that Ets-1 may play a critical role in fine-tuning matrix remodeling of STZ-induced DN.
Antihyperglycemic effects of baicalin on streptozotocin - nicotinamide induced diabetic rats.	The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of baicalin on blood glucose, insulin and cytokine levels. Rat diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of nicotinamide and streptozotocin. Diabetic rats were dosed with i.p. baicalin or oral metformin daily for 8 days. Blood glucose, insulin and hepatic glycogen were determined using conventional methods. The activity of hepatic hexokinase was determined using a coupled assay with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. Serum levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and adiponectin were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Administration of baicalin at 50 or 100mg/kg significantly decreased plasma glucose levels in a dose dependent manner. The serum insulin level was not increased by baicalin treatment. Administration of baicalin at a high dose (100mg/kg) resulted in a significant increase of liver glycogen content and a reduction of serum TNF-. The activity of hepatic hexokinase was significantly increased after dosing baicalin at 25, 50 or 10mg/kg. Administration of baicalin (50 or 10mg/kg) or metformin (10mg/kg) significantly alleviated the morphological injury to the pancreas caused by STZ. The possible mechanisms contributing to the hypoglycemic effect include increasing the hepatic glycogen content and glycolysis, and reducing the serum levels of TNF-.
Vitamin D3 restores altered cholinergic and insulin receptor expression in the cerebral cortex and muscarinic M3 receptor expression in pancreatic islets of streptozotocin induced diabetic rats.	Nutritional therapy is a challenging but necessary dimension in the management of diabetes and neurodegenerative changes associated with it. The study evaluates the effect of vitamin D(3) in preventing the altered function of cholinergic, insulin receptors and GLUT3 in the cerebral cortex of diabetic rats. Muscarinic M3 acetylcholine receptors in pancreas control insulin secretion. Vitamin D(3) treatment in M3 receptor regulation in the pancreatic islets was also studied. Radioreceptor binding assays and gene expression was done in the cerebral cortex of male Wistar rats. Immunocytochemistry of muscarinic M3 receptor was studied in the pancreatic islets using specific antibodies. Y-maze was used to evaluate the exploratory and spatial memory. Diabetes induced a decrease in muscarinic M1, insulin and vitamin D receptor expression and an increase in muscarinic M3, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, acetylcholine esterase and GLUT3 expression. Vitamin D(3) and insulin treatment reversed diabetes-induced alterations to near control. Diabetic rats showed a decreased Y-maze performance while vitamin D(3) supplementation improved the behavioural deficit. In conclusion, vitamin D(3) shows a potential therapeutic effect in normalizing diabetes-induced alterations in cholinergic, insulin and vitamin D receptor and maintains a normal glucose transport and utilisation in the cortex. In addition vitamin D(3) modulated muscarinic M3 receptors activity in pancreas and plays a pivotal role in controlling insulin secretion. Hence our findings proved, vitamin D(3) supplementation as a potential nutritional therapy in ameliorating diabetes mediated cortical dysfunctions and suggest an interaction between vitamin D(3) and muscarinic M3 receptors in regulating insulin secretion from pancreas.
Quercetin and ferulic acid aggravate renal carcinoma in long-term diabetic victims.	Many phytoantioxidants have therapeutic drawbacks due to their potent prooxidant bioactivity. It is hypothesized that phytoantioxidants (PAO) are beneficial only to the early-stage diabetes mellitus (DM) and will become ineffective once renopathy occurs. Gallic acid, rutin, EGCG, ferulic acid (FA), and quercetin were tried on the streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DM rat model for a 28 week experimental period. All of these PAO were shown to be ineffective for hypoglycemic action. The incidence of cataract (50%), injured glomerules, and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) was very common, among which the most severely affected involved the quercetin- and the FA-treated groups. The tumorigenicity of ferulic acid is still unclear. However, for quercetin, this can be attributted to (i) the prooxidant effect, (ii) the insulin-secretagogue bioactivity, and (iii) the competitive and noncompetitive inhibition on the O-methyltransferase to enhance the estradiol-induced tumorigenesis. Conclusively, quercetin and FA are able to aggravate, if not induce, nephrocarcinoma. It is time to reevaluate the tumorigenic detrimental effect of PAO, especially those exhibiting prooxidant bioactivity.
Betacellulin overexpression in mesenchymal stem cells induces insulin secretion in vitro and ameliorates streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia in rats.	Betacellulin (BTC), a ligand of the epidermal growth factor receptor, has been shown to promote growth and differentiation of pancreatic -cells and to improve glucose metabolism in experimental diabetic rodent models. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been already proved to be multipotent. Recent work has attributed to rat and human MSCs the potential to differentiate into insulin-secreting cells. Our goal was to transfect rat MSCs with a plasmid containing BTC cDNA to guide MSC differentiation into insulin-producing cells. Prior to induction of cell MSC transfection, MSCs were characterized by flow cytometry and the ability to in vitro differentiate into mesoderm cell types was evaluated. After rat MSC characterization, these cells were electroporated with a plasmid containing BTC cDNA. Transfected cells were cultivated in Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium high glucose (H-DMEM) with 10 mM nicotinamide. Then, the capability of MSC-BTC to produce insulin in vitro and in vivo was evaluated. It was possible to demonstrate by radioimmunoassay analysis that 10(4) MSC-BTC cells produced up to 0.4 ng/mL of insulin, whereas MSCs transfected with the empty vector (negative control) produced no detectable insulin levels. Moreover, MSC-BTC were positive for insulin in immunohistochemistry assay. In parallel, the expression of pancreatic marker genes was demonstrated by molecular analysis of MSC-BTC. Further, when MSC-BTC were transplanted to streptozotocin diabetic rats, BTC-transfected cells ameliorated hyperglycemia from over 500 to about 200 mg/dL at 35 days post-cell transplantation. In this way, our results clearly demonstrate that BTC overabundance enhances glucose-induced insulin secretion in MSCs in vitro as well as in vivo.
Antidiabetic potential of -amylase inhibitor from the seeds of Macrotyloma uniflorum in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic mice.	Macrotyloma uniflorum (Lam.) Verdc. (Leguminosae) seeds, known as the poor man's pulse crop in India, have been used as a food and also used in the traditional method for treatment of kidney stones, diabetes, obesity, etc.
Bone marrow transplantation stimulates pancreatic -cell replication after tissue damage.	Bone marrow transplantation has been shown to normalize hyperglycemia but the mechanisms underlying pancreatic -cell regeneration remain elusive. Here, we investigate the capacity of transplanted bone marrow cells to engraft into the pancreas, to adopt an endothelial cell phenotype and to stimulate -cell regeneration after islet damage. Genetically marked whole bone marrow from Tie2-Cre/ZEG mice was transplanted into lethally irradiated wild-type mice. The fate of the transplanted cells, as well as blood glucose levels and -cell mass dynamics, was investigated in normal and hyperglycemic recipient mice. Bone marrow transplantation significantly increased -cell mass and reduced the hyperglycemia of mice subjected to -cell damage by streptozotocin (STZ). This was associated with enhanced replication of pre-existing -cells, proportional to the degree of -cell damage, whereas no evidence was obtained for islet neogenesis. The engrafted bone marrow-derived cells in the pancreas showed little capacity to differentiate into blood vessel endothelium but retained a myeloid cell fate. By contrast, the transplantation evoked pronounced proliferation of recipient endothelial cells. These findings illuminate an important adjuvant function of transplanted bone marrow cells in both angiogenesis and -cell regeneration. This may have interesting clinical implications, not least for human islet transplantation endeavours, where co-transplantation of islets with bone marrow cells might represent a simple means to improve islet survival and function.
Factors affecting islet graft embolization in the liver of diabetic mice.	Embolic occlusion of the portal vein due to islet transplantation is one of the major reasons for reduced survival of transplanted islets. In this study, we examined the location of islets as well as the correlation between islet and portal vein size after intraportal islet transplantation, and evaluated liver and islet pathology.
Metabolomic approach with LC-QTOF to study the effect of a nutraceutical treatment on urine of diabetic rats.	The rat treated with streptozotocin has been proposed as the most appropriate model of systemic oxidative stress for studying antioxidant therapies. In that sense, rosemary extracts have long been recognized as having antioxidant properties, and folic acid may be able to improve endothelial progenitor cell function. A mixture containing both has been tested as a possible nutraceutical to improve health complications in diabetes. We have developed the methodology to evaluate metabolic changes in the urine of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats after supplementing their diet with rosemary extract obtained with supercritical fluids (SFE) containing 10% folic acid in an acute but short-term study. It has been done with a metabolomics approach using LC-QTOF as an analytical tool. About 20 endogenous metabolites have been identified by databases and MS/MS showing statistically significant changes. Among them, several amino acids and their metabolites point to changes due to the effect of the gut microbiota. In addition, the comparison between control and streptozotocin-diabetic rats has permitted the showing of some metabolic coincidences between type 1 diabetes and other (possible) autoimmune diseases such as autism and/or Crohn's disease, and the nutraceutical intervention has succeeded in inducing changes in such biomarkers.
Long-term effects of chitosan oligosaccharide in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Streptozotocin has been used to induce an experimental model for diabetes to study the activity of anti-diabetic agents. The cholesterol-lowering effect of chitosan makes a continued issue in the field of diabetes, but the hypoglyecemic effect is inconclusive to date. Unlike chitosan, the water soluble chitosan oligosaccharide may possess various biological properties for diabetes. The present study was designed to investigate the long-term effects of chitosan oligosaccharide in normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats using glycated hemoglobin and C-peptide. Chitosan oligosaccharide feeding did not cause any harmful effect on plasma glucose as well as plasma lipid metabolism in normal rats, although slightly elevated triglyceride was observed. As compared with the diabetic control rats, effects of chitosan oligosaccharide for 12 weeks in the diabetic rats were summarized as follows; (1) the blood glucose concentrations fell significantly and it was confirmed by decreased glycated hemoglobin, (2) the plasma C-peptide was increased and provided elevated degree of insulin secretion, and (3) relatively well reconstructed pancreatic islet with -cells and additional insulin-immunolabeled cells in the pancreatic acinus and in the intercalated duct were observed. These results suggested that chitosan oligosaccharide could improve the altered blood glucose metabolism in the diabetic rats by various mechanisms such as accelerated proliferation or neogenesis of  cells and increased secretory capacity of insulin.
Insulin modulation of glucagon secretion: the role of insulin and other factors in the regulation of glucagon secretion.	Glucagon plays a critical counter-regulatory role to insulin to maintain optimal glucose homeostasis. Glucagon secretion from pancreatic -cells is regulated by glycemia, neural input, and secretion from neighboring -cells. Recently, we provided direct genetic evidence of a critical role for insulin signaling in the regulation of glucagon secretion in vivo. Pancreatic -cell targeted disruption of insulin receptor expression in mice resulted in glucose intolerance, hyperglycemia and hyperglucagonemia coupled with an abnormal glucagon response to hypoglycemia. Furthermore, streptozotocin treated mice exhibited paradoxically increased plasma glucagon suggesting a dominant role for insulin in the regulation of glucagon secretion compared with glucose. In fact, normalization of hyperglycemia by phrolidzin treatment decreased plasma glucagon levels suggesting a stimulatory effect of glucose on glucagon secretion and also revealed the significance of insulin in hyperglycemic states. Together these studies provide novel insights into intra-islet regulatory pathways in the modulation of glucagon secretion and provide potential opportunities to develop therapeutic approaches for the correction of -cell dysfunction in diabetes.
Effect of long term, non cholesterol lowering dose of fluvastatin treatment on oxidative stress in brain and peripheral tissues of streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	One of the main goals of treatment of diabetes mellitus is to prevent its complications. Oxidative stress is universal in diabetes, being ultimately involved with the development complications. As a result of hyperglycemia, reactive oxygen/nitrogen species are produced in various tissues that leads to tissue damage with lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation, along with disruption in cellular homeostasis and accumulation of damaged molecules. Hence, supplementation with antioxidant compounds may offer some protection against diabetic complications. The pleiotropic effects of statins, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, represent an area of great interest in prevention and therapy of cardiovascular and neurological disorders. Using biomarkers of oxidative stress, in this study we examined the effect of non cholesterol lowering dose, long term fluvastatin treatment on oxidative stress in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Experiments were conducted in 24 Wistar adult male rats. Diabetic and non-diabetic rats were treated orally for 6 months with fluvastatin (2mg/kg/day, p.o) starting one week after streptozotocin injection (55 mg/kg, i.p.), (preventive study). In brain, heart, liver, pancreas and kidney homogenates malondialdehyde, lipid hydroperoxide, protein carbonyl content, advanced oxidation protein products, 3-nitrotyrosine levels and superoxide dismutase, catalase activities were measured. Hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia in diabetic groups remained unchanged after fluvastatin treatment. The drug act as antioxidant in the tissues. Hence, antioxidant property of fluvastatin, independent of cholesterol lowering effect, may play a role in prevention of diabetic complications. Clinical relevance of this effect of fluvastatin seems worthy of further studies.
Effects of sleeve gastrectomy in neonatally streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Sleeve gastrectomy (SG) has emerged recently as a stand-alone bariatric procedure to treat morbid obesity and enhance glucose homeostasis. The aim of the study was to evaluate its effects in neonatally streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats (n-STZ diabetic rats).
The tuberin/mTOR pathway promotes apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells in diabetes.	Apoptosis contributes to the development of diabetic nephropathy, but the mechanism by which high glucose (HG) induces apoptosis is not fully understood. Because the tuberin/mTOR pathway can modulate apoptosis, we studied the role of this pathway in apoptosis in type I diabetes and in cultured proximal tubular epithelial (PTE) cells exposed to HG. Compared with control rats, diabetic rats had more apoptotic cells in the kidney cortex. Induction of diabetes also increased phosphorylation of tuberin in association with mTOR activation (measured by p70S6K phosphorylation), inactivation of Bcl-2, increased cytosolic cytochrome c expression, activation of caspase 3, and cleavage of PARP; insulin treatment prevented these changes. In vitro, exposure of PTE cells to HG increased phosphorylation of tuberin and p70S6K, phosphorylation of Bcl-2, expression of cytosolic cytochrome c, and caspase 3 activity. High glucose induced translocation of the caspase substrate YY1 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and enhanced cleavage of PARP. Pretreatment the cells with the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin reduced the number of apoptotic cells induced by HG and the downstream effects of mTOR activation noted above. Furthermore, gene silencing of tuberin with siRNA decreased cleavage of PARP. These data show that the tuberin/mTOR pathway promotes apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells in diabetes, mediated in part by cleavage of PARP by YY1.
Curcumin prevents experimental diabetic retinopathy in rats through its hypoglycemic, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic potential of oral curcumin (1g/kg body weight of rat) in the prevention and treatment of streptozotocin-induced diabetic retinopathy in Wistar albino rats.
Increased myocardial stiffness with maintenance of length-dependent calcium activation by female sex hormones in diabetic rats.	A decrease in peak early diastolic filling velocity in postmenopausal women implies a sex hormone-related diastolic dysfunction. The regulatory effect of female sex hormones on cardiac distensibility therefore was evaluated in ovariectomized rats by determining the sarcomere length-passive tension relationship of ventricular skinned fiber preparations. Diabetes also was induced in the rat to assess the protective significance of female sex hormones on diastolic function. While ovariectomy had no effect on myocardial stiffness, collagen content, or titin ratio, a significant increase in myocardial stiffness was observed in diabetic rat only when female sex hormones were intact. The increased stiffness in diabetic-sham rats was accompanied by an elevated collagen content resulting from increases in the levels of procollagen and Smad2. Surprisingly, the increased myocardial stiffness in diabetic-sham rats was accompanied by a shift toward a more compliant N2BA of cardiac titin isoforms. The pCa-active tension relationship was analyzed at fixed sarcomere lengths of 2.0 and 2.3 m to determine the magnitude of changes in myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity between the two sarcomere lengths. Interestingly, high expression of N2BA titin was associated with a suppressed magnitude of changes in myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity only in the diabetic-ovariectomized condition. Estrogen supplementation in diabetic-ovariectomized rats partially increased myocardial stiffness but completely reversed the change in myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity. These results indicate a restrictive adaptation of myocardium governed by female sex hormones to maintain myofilament activity in compensation to the pathophysiological induction of cardiac dilatation by the diabetic condition.
Effect of streptozocin-induced diabetes mellitus on expression of methionine sulfoxide reductases and accumulation of their substrates in mouse lenses.	To determine the influences of early-stage diabetes mellitus on methionine sulfoxide reductases (Msrs) expression in lenses, streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice as animal models were used in this study. The results showed that the contents of methionine sulfoxide (MetO), protein carbonyl (PC) and Malondialdehyde (MDA) in the lenses of STZ-induced diabetic mice after 14 days were significantly higher than that in the normal control, level of total sulfhydryl groups (TSH) was 60% of normal control, and mRNA expressing levels of the MsrA and MsrBs were significantly decreased compared with normal group, as was the expression of MsrB1 protein. These results suggest that STZ not only causes increased oxidative stress, but also suppresses Msr mRNA and MsrB1 protein expression during early-stage diabetes in mice. However, the mechanism remains to research.
Improvement of brain energy metabolism and cholinergic functions contributes to the beneficial effects of silibinin against streptozotocin induced memory impairment.	Recently, silibinin, a clinically used hepatoprotectant, has been reported to prevent amyloid beta induced memory impairment by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation in mice brain. However, the exact mechanism of neuroprotective effect of silibinin has not been properly studied especially in context of brain energy metabolism and cholinergic functions, the essential factors that undergo impairment in Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, the present study investigated the effect of silibinin on impairment in memory, brain energy metabolism and cholinergic function following intracerebral (IC) streptozotocin (STZ) administration in mice. STZ (0.5mg/kg), administered twice at an interval of 48h, caused significant memory impairment tested by Morris water maze. Further, STZ significantly decreased ATP and increased synaptosomal calcium level in mice brain. Increased oxidative and nitrosative stress was also observed in IC STZ injected mice brain. STZ IC induced memory impairment is associated with increased activity and mRNA expression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and decreased -7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (-7-nAChR) mRNA expression in mice brain. Pretreatment with silibinin (100 and 200mg/kg, po) attenuated STZ induced memory impairment by reducing oxidative and nitrosative stress and synaptosomal calcium ion level. Further, silibinin dose dependently restored ATP level indicating improvement in brain energy metabolism. The activity and mRNA expression of AChE was restored by silibinin. Moreover, -7-nAChR mRNA expression was significantly increased by silibinin in STZ treated mice brain. The present study clearly demonstrates that beneficial effects of silibinin in STZ induced memory impairment in mice is due to improvement in brain energy metabolism and cholinergic function.
Hematopoietic growth factor inducible neurokinin-1 (Gpnmb/Osteoactivin) is a biomarker of progressive renal injury across species.	We sought to find a urinary biomarker for chronic kidney disease and tested hematopoietic growth factor inducible neurokinin-1 (HGFIN, also known as Gpnmb/Osteoactivin) as it was found to be a kidney injury biomarker in microarray studies. Here, we studied whether HGFIN is a marker of kidney disease progression. Its increase in kidney disease was confirmed by real-time PCR after 5/6 nephrectomy, in streptozotocin-induced diabetes, and in patients with chronic kidney disease. In the remnant kidney, HGFIN mRNA increased over time reflecting lesion chronicity. HGFIN was identified in the infarct portion of the remnant kidney in infiltrating hematopoietic interstitial cells, and in distal nephron tubules of the viable remnant kidney expressed de novo with increasing time. In vitro, it localized to cytoplasmic vesicles and cell membranes. Epithelial cells lining distal tubules and sloughed luminal tubule cells of patients expressed HGFIN protein. The urine HGFIN-to-creatinine ratio increased over time after 5/6 nephrectomy; increased in patients with proteinuric and polycystic kidney disease; and remained detectable in urine after prolonged freezer storage. The urine HGFIN-to-creatinine ratio compared favorably with the urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL)-to-creatinine ratio (both measured by commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs)), and correlated strongly with proteinuria, but weakly with estimated glomerular filtration rate and serum creatinine. Thus, HGFIN may be a biomarker of progressive kidney disease.
Plasma glucose lowering mechanisms of catalpol, an active principle from roots of Rehmannia glutinosa, in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Catalpol is one of the active principles from roots of Rehmannia glutinosa Steud (Scrophulariaceae) that is widely used to treat diabetic disorders in Chinese traditional medicine using the name of Di-Huang, which is used to investigate the mechanisms for lowering of plasma glucose in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (STZ-diabetic rats). Catalpol decreased plasma glucose in a dose-related manner, and this action was reduced by pretreatment with naloxone or naloxonazine. An increase of plasma -endorphin by catalpol was also observed in parallel. The plasma glucose lowering action of catalpol was deleted in bilateral adrenalectomized rats. Moreover, catalpol enhanced -endorphin release from the isolated adrenal medulla of STZ-diabetic rats. Otherwise, plasma glucose lowering action of catalpol failed to produce in opioid -receptor knockout mice. Also, repeated administration of catalpol for 3 days in STZ-diabetic rats resulted in a marked reduction of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) expression in liver and an increased expression of glucose transporter subtype 4 (GLUT 4) in skeletal muscle. These effects were also reversed by blockade of opioid -receptors. Our results suggested that catalpol increased glucose utilization through increase of -endorphin secretion from adrenal gland in STZ-diabetic rats.
Recurrent hypoglycemia exacerbates cerebral ischemic damage in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Stroke and heart disease are the most serious complications of diabetes accounting for >65% of mortality among diabetics. Although intensive insulin therapy has significantly improved the prognosis of diabetes and its complications, it is associated with an elevated risk of recurrent hypoglycemia (RH). We tested the hypothesis that RH exacerbates cerebral ischemic damage in a rodent model of diabetes.
Severity of diabetes governs vascular lipoprotein lipase by affecting enzyme dimerization and disassembly.	In diabetes, when glucose consumption is restricted, the heart adapts to use fatty acid (FA) exclusively. The majority of FA provided to the heart comes from the breakdown of circulating triglyceride (TG), a process catalyzed by lipoprotein lipase (LPL) located at the vascular lumen. The objective of the current study was to determine the mechanisms behind LPL processing and breakdown after moderate and severe diabetes.
Antihyperglycemic and antioxidative potential of Psidium guajava fruit in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Psidium guajava Linn. (family Myrtaceae; PG) is a tropical fruit with a blood-glucose-lowering effect in diabetic rats, but its mechanism of action is still unknown. We investigated the antihyperglycemic efficacy and mechanisms of action of PG in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. After 4 weeks of PG supplementation (125 and 250 mg/kg), PG significantly restored the loss of body weight caused by STZ and reduced blood glucose levels in a dose-dependent manner compared with that in diabetic control rats. Mechanistically, PG protected pancreatic tissues, including islet -cells, against lipid peroxidation and DNA strand breaks induced by STZ, and thus reduced the loss of insulin-positive -cells and insulin secretion. Moreover, PG also markedly inhibited pancreatic nuclear factor-kappa B protein expression induced by STZ and restored the activities of antioxidant enzymes, including superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase. We conclude that PG has a significant antihyperglycemic effect, and that this effect is associated with its antioxidative activity.
Dietary saturated fat/cholesterol, but not unsaturated fat or starch, induces C-reactive protein associated early atherosclerosis and ectopic fat deposition in diabetic pigs.	Diabetes is thought to accelerate cardiovascular disease depending on the type of diet. This study in diabetic subjects was performed to investigate the metabolic, inflammatory and cardiovascular effects of nutritional components typically present in a Western, Mediterranean or high glycaemic diet.
Alteration of the cardiac sympathetic innervation is modulated by duration of diabetes in female rats.	To evaluate the sympathetic innervation of the female diabetic heart, resting heart rate and sympathetic tone were assessed in vivo, and effect of tyramine on spontaneous beating rate, norepinephrine atrial concentrations, uptake, and release were determined in vitro in streptozotocin- (STZ-) treated rats and respective controls aged 3 months to 2 years. Resting bradycardia, decreased sympathetic tone, deceleration of spontaneous beating rate, and slightly declining carrier-mediated, but preserved exocytotic norepinephrine release from the atria were found in younger diabetic rats while the reactivity of the right atria to tyramine was not affected with age and disease duration. Diabetic two-year-old animals displayed symptoms of partial spontaneous recovery including normoglycemia, increased plasma insulin concentrations, fully recovered sympathetic tone, but putative change, in releasable norepinephrine tissue stores. Our data suggested that female diabetic heart exposed to long-lasting diabetic conditions seems to be more resistant to alteration in sympathetic innervation than the male one.
Cardiac fibrosis in diabetic rats: regulation and mechanism of activation of the PPARgamma signal pathway.	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily which affects organic fibrosis. The aims of the study were to approach the effects of activation of the PPARgamma signal pathway on cardiac fibrosis in diabetic rats, and also the effects on cardiac remodeling and function. Type 1 diabetic models were used in the study. All the animals were divided into 3 groups: I: control group; II: diabetic group; III: diabetes+Pioglitazone (Piog, a PPARgamma ligand) administration group. After 14 weeks of feeding, general condition, fibrosis indices, echocardiography and interventricular pressures parameters were detected. At the 14th week, compared with group I, the hydroxyproline concentration in group II significantly increased, and CO I and III distribution was more obvious by sirius red staining. Reduction of LVSP (left ventricular systolic pressure) and increase of LVEDP (left ventricular end-diastolic pressure) were also significant in group II. But these situations were changed by the administration of Piog in group III. Furthermore, results of RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry showed that Piog administration reduced angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-R) expression in diabetic models. Hence, activation of the PPARgamma signal pathway could repress cardiac fibrosis in diabetic rats, and partly improve cardiac remodeling and function by down-regulating activity of RAS at the receptor level.
Butea superba (Roxb.) improves penile erection in diabetic rats.	The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of ethanolic extract of Butea superba (Roxb.) on erectile dysfunction in diabetic rats by the measurement of intracavernous pressure (ICP) and on cavernosal smooth muscle relaxation. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were induced to become diabetic by a single intravenous injection of Streptozotocin (55 mg kg(-1) body weight). The ethanolic extract at the concentration of 1, 10 and 100 mg kg(-1) BW was administered orally once a day to diabetic rats in each group for 4 weeks. Diabetic rats showed a significant decrease in both ICP and the relaxation of the cavernosal smooth muscle compared with the normal rats. The extract of B. superba significantly increased the ICP with the effective dose of 10 mg kg(-1) BW (61.00  11.11 mmHg versus 39.61  11.01 mmHg in the diabetic control group). Moreover, the B. superba-treated group also showed enhanced relaxation of the cavernosal smooth muscle with EC(50) of 1.17 mg ml(-1). These results suggest that the extract of B. superba enhanced penile erection in diabetic rats by increasing the ICP. This might be explained by the increased blood flow as a result of the relaxation of the cavernous smooth muscle.
Effects of zinc supplementation on the element distribution in kidney tissue of diabetic rats subjected to acute swimming.	In this study, we report the effect of zinc supplementation on the distribution of elements in kidney tissue of diabetic rats subjected to acute swimming exercise. Diabetes was induced by two subcutaneous injections of 40 mg/kg of streptozotocin within a 24-h period. Zinc was given intraperitoneally at a dose of 6 mg/kg per day for a period of 4 weeks. The rats (n = 80) were equally divided into eight study groups: controls, zinc-supplemented, swimming, diabetic, zinc-supplemented diabetic, zinc-supplemented swimming, diabetic swimming, and zinc-supplemented diabetic swimming. The levels of lead, cobalt, molybdenum, chromium, boron, magnesium, iron, copper, calcium, zinc, and selenium were determined in the kidney tissue samples by ICP-AES. Higher molybdenum, calcium, zinc, and selenium values were found in both swimming and nonswimming diabetic rats. Significantly higher iron values were found in swimming, diabetic, diabetic swimming, and zinc-supplemented diabetic swimming rats (p < 0.001). Diabetic, zinc-supplemented diabetic, diabetic swimming, and zinc-supplemented diabetic swimming rats had the highest copper values. These results show that zinc supplementation normalized the higher levels of molybdenum, calcium, selenium, and iron levels seen in diabetic rats, indicating that zinc may have a regulatory effect on element metabolism in kidney tissue.
Aldehyde and xanthine oxidase activities in tissues of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats: effects of vitamin E and selenium supplementation.	Effects of vitamin E and selenium supplementation on aldehyde oxidase (AO) and xanthine oxidase (XO) activities and antioxidant status in liver, kidney, and heart of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats were examined. AO and XO activities increased significantly after induction of diabetes in rats. Following oral vitamin E (300 mg/kg) and sodium selenite (0.5 mg/kg) intake once a day for 4 weeks, XO activity decreased significantly. AO activity decreased significantly in liver, but remained unchanged in kidney and heart of vitamin E- and selenium-treated rats compared to the diabetic rats. Total antioxidants status, paraoxonase-1 (PON1) and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase activities significantly decreased in the diabetic rats compared to the controls, while a higher fasting plasma glucose level was observed in the diabetic animals. The glutathione peroxidase activity remained statistically unchanged. Malondialdehyde and oxidized low-density lipoprotein levels were higher in the diabetic animals; however, these values were significantly reduced following vitamin E and selenium supplementation. In summary, both AO and XO activities increase in STZ-induced diabetic rats, and vitamin E and selenium supplementation can reduce these activities. The results also indicate that administration of vitamin E and selenium has hypolipidemic, hypoglycemic, and antioxidative effects. It decreases tissue damages in diabetic rats, too.
Myosin light chain kinase is involved in the mechanism of gastrointestinal dysfunction in diabetic rats.	It is well established that smooth muscle contractility is regulated by an elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) via myosin light chain phosphorylation, which is activated by myosin light chain kinase (MLCK). Recently, MLCK has been demonstrated to play an important role in smooth muscle contraction and normal gastrointestinal motility.
Antidiabetic and antihyperlipidemic effects of the stem of Musa sapientum Linn. in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Musa sapientum Linn. is a herbaceous plant of the Musaceae family. It has been used in India for the treatment of gastric ulcer, hypertension, diarrhea, dysentery, and diabetes. The antidiabetic effect of the fruit, root, and flower has been demonstrated. The aim of the present study was to assess the antidiabetic and antihyperlipidemic effects of the stem of M. sapientum Linn.
Advanced glycation end products induce a prothrombotic phenotype in mice via interaction with platelet CD36.	Diabetes mellitus has been associated with platelet hyperreactivity, which plays a central role in the hyperglycemia-related prothrombotic phenotype. The mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon are not established. In the present study, we investigated the role of CD36, a class-B scavenger receptor, in this process. Using both in vitro and in vivo mouse models, we demonstrated direct and specific interactions of platelet CD36 with advanced glycation end products (AGEs) generated under hyperglycemic conditions. AGEs bound to platelet CD36 in a specific and dose-dependent manner, and binding was inhibited by the high-affinity CD36 ligand NO(2)LDL. Cd36-null platelets did not bind AGE. Using diet- and drug-induced mouse models of diabetes, we have shown that cd36-null mice had a delayed time to the formation of occlusive thrombi compared with wild-type (WT) in a FeCl(3)-induced carotid artery injury model. Cd36-null mice had a similar level of hyperglycemia and a similar level of plasma AGEs compared with WT mice under this condition, but WT mice had more AGEs incorporated into thrombi. Mechanistic studies revealed that CD36-dependent JNK2 activation is involved in this prothrombotic pathway. Therefore, the results of the present study couple vascular complications in diabetes mellitus with AGE-CD36-mediated platelet signaling and hyperreactivity.
Flavone-based novel antidiabetic and antidyslipidemic agents.	The hybrid congeners 62-90 of 6- and 7-hydroxyflavones with aminopropanol have been synthesized and evaluated for their antidiabetic activity in sucrose-challenged low-dosed streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats and db/db mice. The optical enantiomers 70a, 70b, 90a, and 90b of two congeners 70 and 90 exhibiting consistent antidiabetic and antidyslipidemic activities were also prepared, and their antidiabetic activity results indicate its association mainly with S isomers. These compounds also lower cholesterol and TG profiles while improving high-density lipoprotein cholesterol to CHOL ratio in db/db mice. The bioavailability of compound 70 and its isomer varies between 27 and 29% whereas that of the more polar compound 90a is poor as determined in rat by oral and intraperitoneal administrations.
Tempol reduces podocyte apoptosis via PARP signaling pathway in experimental diabetes mellitus.	In diabetic hypertensive rats, tempol reduces albuminuria by restoring the redox imbalance. Increased formation of reactive oxygen species leading to activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1 and podocyte loss by apoptosis contribute to albuminuria in diabetes mellitus (DM). In the present study, we investigated the hypothesis that in DM tempol reduces albuminuria by inhibition of PARP-induced podocyte apoptosis.
5-HT7 receptor activation attenuates thermal hyperalgesia in streptozocin-induced diabetic mice.	The role of 5-HT7 receptors in the nociceptive processing received most attention during the last few years. The involvement of 5-HT receptors in nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain states have been reported only recently; however, there are no reports on its contribution in diabetic neuropathic pain. We therefore planned to investigate the effect of 5-HT receptor activation on the changes of nociceptive threshold in diabetic mice. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozocin (150 mg/kg, i.p.). The nociceptive responses in normal and diabetic animals were tested in the hot-plate and tail-flick assays. Both hot-plate and tail-flick latencies significantly shortened at 1-3/4 weeks (thermal hyperalgesia) and prolonged at 6-7 weeks (thermal hypoalgesia) after streptozocin administration. At the dose of 10 mg/kg, systemic injections of AS-19, a selective 5-HT receptor agonist, reduced thermal hyperalgesia at early stage of diabetes, but did not influence thermal hypoalgesia at late stage. Co-administration of SB-258719, a selective 5-HT receptor antagonist, at a dose that had no effect on its own (10 mg/kg), reversed the anti-hyperalgesic effect of AS-19. Our results indicate that systemic administration of 5-HT receptor agonists may have clinical utility in treating diabetic neuropathic pain.
The tyrphostin agent AG490 prevents and reverses type 1 diabetes in NOD mice.	Recent studies in the NOD (non-obese diabetic) mouse model of type 1 diabetes (T1D) support the notion that tyrosine kinase inhibitors have the potential for modulating disease development. However, the therapeutic effects of AG490 on the development of T1D are unknown.
Alterations in pancreatic protein expression in STZ-induced diabetic rats and genetically diabetic mice in response to treatment with hypoglycemic dipeptide Cyclo (His-Pro).	To provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying diabetes mellitus, we performed a proteomic study on two diabetic animal models, streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats (T1DM) and genetically diabetic (C57BL/6J ob/ob) mice (T2DM). To better understand the recovery process of those diabetic rodents, we examined the effect of hypoglycemic dipeptide Cyclo (His-Pro) (CHP) treatment on the differential expression of pancreatic proteins in both animal models. Oral administration of CHP had an excellent hypoglycemic effect in both animal models, lowering the average plasma glucose level by over 50%. Pancreatic proteins were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. This study allowed, for the first time, the identification of 34 proteins that are related to diabetes and potential targets of CHP, a potent anti-diabetic agent for both T1DM and T2DM. The alterations in the expression of these proteins could indicate a tendency for diabetic animals to overcome their diabetic state. These proteins are involved in cellular functions such as metabolism, cellular structure, oxidative stress, as well as signal and energy transduction. Some have already been linked to diabetes, suggesting that the newly identified proteins might also be significant in the etiology of this pathology and should be further investigated. Furthermore, CHP has emerged as a potent tool for both the treatment and study of the molecular mechanisms underlying diabetes. Thus, the findings presented here provide new insights into the study and potential treatment of this pathology.
A scalable system for production of functional pancreatic progenitors from human embryonic stem cells.	Development of a human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-based therapy for type 1 diabetes will require the translation of proof-of-principle concepts into a scalable, controlled, and regulated cell manufacturing process. We have previously demonstrated that hESC can be directed to differentiate into pancreatic progenitors that mature into functional glucose-responsive, insulin-secreting cells in vivo. In this study we describe hESC expansion and banking methods and a suspension-based differentiation system, which together underpin an integrated scalable manufacturing process for producing pancreatic progenitors. This system has been optimized for the CyT49 cell line. Accordingly, qualified large-scale single-cell master and working cGMP cell banks of CyT49 have been generated to provide a virtually unlimited starting resource for manufacturing. Upon thaw from these banks, we expanded CyT49 for two weeks in an adherent culture format that achieves 50-100 fold expansion per week. Undifferentiated CyT49 were then aggregated into clusters in dynamic rotational suspension culture, followed by differentiation en masse for two weeks with a four-stage protocol. Numerous scaled differentiation runs generated reproducible and defined population compositions highly enriched for pancreatic cell lineages, as shown by examining mRNA expression at each stage of differentiation and flow cytometry of the final population. Islet-like tissue containing glucose-responsive, insulin-secreting cells was generated upon implantation into mice. By four- to five-months post-engraftment, mature neo-pancreatic tissue was sufficient to protect against streptozotocin (STZ)-induced hyperglycemia. In summary, we have developed a tractable manufacturing process for the generation of functional pancreatic progenitors from hESC on a scale amenable to clinical entry.
Antioxidant potential and protection of pancreatic - cells by Calotropis gigantea in streptozocin induced diabetic rats.	This study was designed to examine the antioxidant defense by chloroform extract of Calotropis gigantea on streptozotocin-(40mg/kg, intraperitonial, single-injection) induced diabetes in wistar albino rats. The extract significantly (P < .05) decreased the pancreatic thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels and significantly (P < .05) increased the superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione levels as compared to above levels in pancreatic tissue of pathogenic diabetic rats. The results of test drug were comparable to Glibenclamide (5mg/kg, daily), a standard antihyperglycemic agent. The study concludes that Calotropis gigantea enhances the antioxidant defense against reactive oxygen species produced under hyperglycemic condition and this protects -cells against loss, and exhibit antidiabetic property.
Quercetin and allopurinol ameliorate kidney injury in STZ-treated rats with regulation of renal NLRP3 inflammasome activation and lipid accumulation.	Hyperuricemia, hyperlipidemia and inflammation are associated with diabetic nephropathy. The NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated inflammation is recently recognized in the development of kidney injury. Urate and lipid are considered as danger signals in the NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Although dietary flavonoid quercetin and allopurinol alleviate hyperuricemia, dyslipidmia and inflammation, their nephroprotective effects are currently unknown. In this study, we used streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy model with hyperuricemia and dyslipidemia in rats, and found over-expression of renal inflammasome components NLRP3, apoptosis-associated speck-like protein and Caspase-1, resulting in elevation of IL-1 and IL-18, with subsequently deteriorated renal injury. These findings demonstrated the possible association between renal NLRP3 inflammasome activation and lipid accumulation to superimpose causes of nephrotoxicity in STZ-treated rats. The treatment of quercetin and allopurinol regulated renal urate transport-related proteins to reduce hyperuricemia, and lipid metabolism-related genes to alleviate kidney lipid accumulation in STZ-treated rats. Furthermore, quercetin and allopurinol were found to suppress renal NLRP3 inflammasome activation, at least partly, via their anti-hyperuricemic and anti-dyslipidemic effects, resulting in the amelioration of STZ-induced the superimposed nephrotoxicity in rats. These results may provide a basis for the prevention of diabetes-associated nephrotoxicity with urate-lowering agents such as quercetin and allopurinol.
Phosphodiesterase inhibitor improves renal tubulointerstitial hypoxia of the diabetic rat kidney.	Renal hypoxia is involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy. Pentoxifyllin (PTX), a nonselective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, is used to attenuate peripheral vascular diseases. To determine whether PTX can improve renal hypoxia, we investigated its effect in the streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic kidney.
Cardiac transcription factor Nkx2.5 is downregulated under excessive O-GlcNAcylation condition.	Post-translational modification of proteins with O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is linked the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. We investigated whether Nkx2.5 protein, a cardiac transcription factor, is regulated by O-GlcNAc. Recombinant Nkx2.5 (myc-Nkx2.5) proteins were reduced by treatment with the O-GlcNAcase inhibitors STZ and O-(2-acetamido-2-deoxy-D-glucopyroanosylidene)-amino-N-phenylcarbamate; PUGNAC) as well as the overexpression of recombinant O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT-flag). Co-immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that myc-Nkx2.5 and OGT-flag proteins interacted and myc-Nkx2.5 proteins were modified by O-GlcNAc. In addition, Nkx2.5 proteins were reduced in the heart tissue of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice and O-GlcNAc modification of Nkx2.5 protein increased in diabetic heart tissue compared with non-diabetic heart. Thus, excessive O-GlcNAcylation causes downregulation of Nkx2.5, which may be an underlying contributing factor for the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Antihyperglycemic and antihyperlipidemic effects of n-hexane fraction from the hydro-methanolic extract of sepals of Salmalia malabarica in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Bio-efficacy of n-hexane fraction of sepal of Salmalia malabarica was evaluated covering the biochemical sensors for the management of hyperglycemic and hyperlipidemic effects. Evaluation of n-hexane fraction of Salmalia malabarica (SMH) from hydro-methanolic (2:3) extract at the dose of 0.1 gm/kg body weight twice a day were investigated in normal and streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats. Normal and STZ-induced diabetic rats were divided into five groups. The effect of the fraction on fasting blood glucose (FBG), serum insulin, hemoglobin, glycated hemoglobin, total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc), very low density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDLc), phospholipids, free fatty acids, urea, uric acid, creatinine, albumin and transaminases were investigated in STZ-induced diabetic rat. A significant reduction of FBG level was observed after SMH treatment in STZ-induced diabetic rat. Treatment of diabetic rats with n-hexane fraction of this plant restored the levels of the above biochemical sensors significantly (p<0.001) in respect to the control. Histological studies of pancreas showed a qualitative diminution in the area of the islet's of Langerhans in diabetic group which was recovered by said fraction. Phytochemical screening of the fraction revealed the presence of flavonoids, terpenoids and steroids.
Bosentan ameliorates the expression of fibrotic related growth factors and collagen-1 in diabetic mice.	To investigate the potential beneficial effect of bosentan in ameliorating fibrotic agents in diabetic mice.
Zinc supplementation attenuates metallothionein and oxidative stress changes in kidney of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Zinc is an element that under physiological conditions preferentially binds to and is a potent inducer of metallothionein under physiological conditions. The present study was conducted to explore whether zinc supplementation morphologically and biochemically protects against diabetic nephropathy through modulation of kidney metallothionein induction and oxidative stress in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Thirty-two Wistar albino male rats were equally divided into four groups. The first group was used as untreated controls and the second group was supplemented with 30mg/kg/day zinc as zinc sulfate. The third group was treated with streptozotocin to induce diabetes and the fourth group was treated with streptozotocin and supplemented with zinc as described for group 2. The blood glucose and micro-albuminuria levels, body and kidney weights were measured during the 42-day experimental period. At the end of the experiment, the kidneys were removed from all animals from the four groups. Diabetes resulted in degenerative kidney morphological changes. The metallothionein immunoreactivity level was lower and the kidney lipid peroxidation levels were higher in the diabetes group than in the controls. The metallothionein immunoreactivity levels were higher in the tubules of the zinc-supplemented diabetic rats as compared to the non-supplemented diabetic group. The zinc and metallothionein concentrations in kidney tissue were higher in the supplemented diabetic group compared to the non-supplemented diabetes group. The activity of glutathione peroxidase did not change in any of the four groups. In conclusion, the present study shows that zinc has a protective effect against diabetic damage of kidney tissue through stimulation of metallothionein synthesis and regulation of the oxidative stress.
Down-regulation of alpha-2u globulin in renal mitochondria of STZ-induced diabetic rats observed by a proteomic method.	To identify the changes of mitochondrial protein expression in diabetic renal parenchyma and to characterize their molecular functions and biological processes in diabetes.
Blockade of renin angiotensin system increased resistance to STZ-induced diabetes in rats with long-term high-fat diet.	This study aimed to investigate whether rennin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockade through telmisartan would increase the resistance to streptozotocin- (STZ-) induced diabetes in insulin resistance rats. There were sixty Wistar rats that were divided into four groups: normal control (NC), high-fat diet (HF), high-fat diet plus STZ injection (HF+S), and high-fat diet plus STZ injection and telmisartan intervention (HF+S+T). Five rats were chosen randomly and respectively from groups NC and HF to undergo a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp. Another five rats were selected randomly from the four groups, respectively, for intravenous injection insulin releasing test (IVIRT), and the other five rats for pancreas specimens used in islet cell immunohistochemistry staining (stained for insulin, NF-B, and caspase-3), islet cell apoptosis staining, and reverse transcription PCR (AT1R and IL-1 beta). There was a significant difference of overt diabetes incidence between groups HF+S+T and HF+S (P < 0.05). Furthermore, inflammatory markers and islet cell apoptosis were found to be significantly reduced in group HF+S+T compared with group HF+S (all P < 0.01 or P < 0.05). Overall, telmisartan-treated rats were found to have reduced RAS activity, increased resistance to STZ-induced diabetes, reduced inflammatory markers, and improvement of islet cell function and morphology.
Effect of dendrobium mixture on hypoglycemic and the apoptosis of islet in rats with type 2 diabetic mellitus]	To study the effect of Dendrobium mixture on hypoglycemic and the apoptosis of islet in rats with type 2 diabetic mellitus.
Melatonin ameliorates oxidative damage in hyperglycemia-induced liver injury.	Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxy-tryptamine) is synthesized mainly by the pineal gland and its antioxidant properties have been demonstrated both in short and long term studies. Our aim was to clarify the effects of hyperglycemia and to administer melatonin on lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation and oxidative DNA damage in rat.
Nitric oxide-releasing polymeric microspheres improve diabetes-related erectile dysfunction.	We have used a long-acting nitric oxide (NO)-releasing polymer to develop injectable biodegradable microspheres capable of localized NO release over prolonged periods of time.
Mitochondrial response to oxidative and nitrosative stress in early stages of diabetes.	Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with increased production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species; consequently, an increase in lipid peroxidation and a decrease in antioxidants resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction. Using a rat model of DM induced by streptozotocin, we show the opposite: an increase in NO levels, S-nitrosylation, aconitase activity, and total glutathione and a decrease in lipid peroxidation at early stages of diabetes. These data imply that the decrease in lipid peroxidation is a vital early response to hyperglycemia to prevent escalation of ROS generation in mitochondria. These results also suggest a need for novel therapeutic targets to prevent the neurological consequences of diabetes. 
Gender dimorphism in regulation of plasma proteins in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	In the present study, we examined differentially regulated plasma proteins between healthy control and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced male and female diabetic rats by 2DE-based proteomic analysis. Animal experiments revealed that significantly lower plasma insulin levels were observed in female diabetic rats, consequently resulting in higher blood glucose levels in female diabetic rats. Importantly, plasma levels of sex hormones were significantly altered in a gender-dependent manner before and after STZ treatment. Results of the animal experiment indicated the existence of sexual dimorphism in the regulation of plasma proteins between healthy control and diabetic rats. Plasma proteome analysis enabled us to identify a total of 38 proteins showing sexual dimorphic regulation patterns. In addition, for the first time, we identified several differentially regulated plasma proteins between healthy control and diabetic rats, including apolipoprotein E, fetuin B, -1-acid glycoprotein, -2-glycoprotein 1, 3-hydroxyanthranilate 3,4-dioxygenase, and serum amyloid P-component. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first proteomic approach to address sexual dimorphism in diabetic animals. These proteomic data on gender-dimorphic regulation of plasma proteins provide valuable information that can be used for evidence-based gender-specific clinical treatment of diabetes.
Differential central pathology and cognitive impairment in pre-diabetic and diabetic mice.	Although age remains the main risk factor to suffer Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VD), type 2 diabetes (T2D) has turned up as a relevant risk factor for dementia. However, the ultimate underlying mechanisms for this association remain unclear. In the present study we analyzed central nervous system (CNS) morphological and functional consequences of long-term insulin resistance and T2D in db/db mice (leptin receptor KO mice). We also included C57Bl6 mice fed with high fat diet (HFD) and a third group of C57Bl6 streptozotocin (STZ) treated mice. Db/db mice exhibited pathological characteristics that mimic both AD and VD, including age dependent cognitive deterioration, brain atrophy, increased spontaneous hemorrhages and tau phosphorylation, affecting the cortex preferentially. A similar profile was observed in STZ-induced diabetic mice. Moreover metabolic parameters, such as body weight, glucose and insulin levels are good predictors of many of these alterations in db/db mice. In addition, in HFD-induced hyperinsulinemia in C57Bl6 mice, we only observed mild CNS alterations, suggesting that central nervous system dysfunction is associated with well established T2D. Altogether our results suggest that T2D may promote many of the pathological and behavioral alterations observed in dementia, supporting that interventions devoted to control glucose homeostasis could improve dementia progress and prognosis. 
AMPK-regulated and Akt-dependent enhancement of glucose uptake is essential in ischemic preconditioning-alleviated reperfusion injury.	Ischemic preconditioning (IPC) is a potent form of endogenous protection. However, IPC-induced cardioprotective effect is significantly blunted in insulin resistance-related diseases and the underlying mechanism is unclear. This study aimed to determine the role of glucose metabolism in IPC-reduced reperfusion injury.
Preconditioning with associated blocking of Ca2+ inflow alleviates hypoxia-induced damage to pancreatic -cells.	Beta cells of pancreatic islets are susceptible to functional deficits and damage by hypoxia. Here we aimed to characterize such effects and to test for and pharmacological means to alleviate a negative impact of hypoxia.
C-peptide preserves the renal microvascular architecture in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat.	C-peptide is renoprotective in type 1 diabetes, however, the mechanisms of its actions are not completely understood. We hypothesized that C-peptide attenuates diabetes-associated renal microvascular injury.
Anxiety- and depression-like behavior are correlated with leptin and leptin receptor expression in prefrontal cortex of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Anxiety and depression are common in diabetics. Diabetes also may cause reduced leptin levels in the blood. We investigated the relation between diabetes induced anxiety- and depression-like behavior, and leptin and leptin receptor expression levels in diabetic rats. The anxiety- and depression-like behaviors of rats were assessed 4 weeks after intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin. Diabetic rats exhibited greater anxiety-like behavior; they spent more time in closed branches of the elevated plus maze test and less time in the center cells of the open field arena. Increased depression-like behavior was observed in diabetic rats using the Porsolt swim test. Prefrontal cortex (PFC), blood leptin levels and PFC neuron numbers were decreased, and leptin receptor expression and apoptosis were increased in diabetic rats. Blood corticosterone levels also were increased in diabetic rats. These results indicate that reduction of leptin up-regulates leptin receptor expression and may affect PFC neurons, which eventually triggers anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in diabetic rats.
Morphology and contractility of cardiac myocytes in early stages of streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus in rats.	Diabetic cardiomyopathy is the leading cause of mortality in type 1 diabetes. Thus study of cardiomyocyte morphology and function during early stages of diabetes using modern analytical methods is of critical importance. Therefore, using confocal microscopy, we determined metric parameters, volumes and contractility, with calcium transients in isolated left-ventricular myocytes at one week after induction of diabetes in rats. Myocyte volume analysis from 3D confocal scans was performed using an automated contour detection algorithm that took the actual shape of the myocytes into account. We showed a significant reduction in myocyte volume in diabetic animals. We also showed a significant reduction in length and width but not in thickness of the myocytes, which suggests disproportional reorganization of the structure of the heart tissue during short-term diabetes. From a functional point of view, we observed a significant decrease in cell shortening at a stimulation frequency of 0.5 Hz. This was accompanied by a decrease in calcium transient amplitude. Together, these data suggest that impaired calcium handling is one of the factors that contributes to the observed decrease in myocyte shortening during early stages of streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats. 
Elevated CSF and plasma microparticles in a rat model of streptozotocin-induced cognitive impairment.	Alzheimer's disease (AD), can be described as a vascular disorder, is characterized by endothelial and platelet activation. One feature of activated cells is loss of lipid asymmetry, and membrane blebbing which cause microparticle (MP) formation. MPs increased under many pathological states and little information is available relating to their changes in AD. The purpose of this work was to characterize the time course of the endothelial-derived microparticles (EMPs) and platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) alteration after intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of streptozotocin (STZ). Rats were injected bilaterally with ICV-STZ/Saline, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma EMPs (Annexin V(+) CD61(-)CD144(+)) and PMPs (Annexin V(+) CD61(+)CD144(-)) were analyzed with flow cytometry at 2 h, 4 h, 24 h, 4 days, 7 days, 14 days and 21 days after ICV-STZ/Saline administration. Cognitive impairment, malondialdehyde (MDA) level of hippocampus, plasma serotonin, and serum S100B were also assessed. We showed the elevation of CSF and plasma level of EMPs and PMPs, which may represent a proinflammatory and prothrombotic status. These alterations were simultaneous with the hippocampal MDA rise, plasma serotonin increment, and S100B decrement, 7 days after ICV-STZ administration and precede the onset of cognitive impairment. Understanding the profile of MP changes in CSF or plasma as biomarkers from tissues undergoing activation or damage, may be helpful in prediction or early diagnosis of AD.
Efficacy of biodegradable curcumin nanoparticles in delaying cataract in diabetic rat model.	Curcumin, the active principle present in the yellow spice turmeric, has been shown to exhibit various pharmacological actions such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and anti-carcinogenic activities. Previously we have reported that dietary curcumin delays diabetes-induced cataract in rats. However, low peroral bioavailability is a major limiting factor for the success of clinical utilization of curcumin. In this study, we have administered curcumin encapsulated nanoparticles in streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic cataract model. Oral administration of 2 mg/day nanocurcumin was significantly more effective than curcumin in delaying diabetic cataracts in rats. The significant delay in progression of diabetic cataract by nanocurcumin is attributed to its ability to intervene the biochemical pathways of disease progression such as protein insolubilization, polyol pathway, protein glycation, crystallin distribution and oxidative stress. The enhanced performance of nanocurcumin can be attributed probably to its improved oral bioavailability. Together, the results of the present study demonstrate the potential of nanocurcumin in managing diabetic cataract. 
Late administration of Mn porphyrin-based SOD mimic enhances diabetic complications.	Mn(III) N-alkylpyridylporphyrins (MnPs) have demonstrated protection in various conditions where increased production of reactive oxygen/reactive nitrogen species (ROS/RNS), is a key pathological factors. MnPs can produce both pro-oxidative and antioxidative effects depending upon the cellular redox environment that they encounter. Previously we reported (Free Radic. Res. 39: 81-8, 2005) that when the treatment started at the onset of diabetes, Mn(III) meso-tetrakis(N-methylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin, MnTM-2-PyP(5+) suppressed diabetes-induced oxidative stress. Diabetes, however, is rarely diagnosed at its onset. The aim of this study was to investigate if MnTM-2-PyP(5+) can suppress oxidative damage and prevent diabetic complications when administered more than a week after the onset of diabetes. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin. The MnP-based treatment started 8 days after the onset of diabetes and continued for 2 months. The effect of the treatment on activities of glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and glyoxalases I and II as well as malondialdehyde and GSH/GSSG ratio were determined in kidneys. Kidney function was assessed by measuring lysozyme and total protein in urine and blood urea nitrogen. Vascular damage was evaluated by assessing vascular reactivity. Our data showed that delayed administration of MnTM-2-PyP(5+) did not protect against oxidative damage and did not prevent diabetic complications. Moreover, MnTM-2-PyP(5+) contributed to the kidney damage, which seems to be a consequence of its pro-oxidative action. Such outcome can be explained by advanced oxidative damage which already existed at the moment the therapy with MnP started. The data support the concept that the overall biological effect of a redox-active MnP is determined by (i) the relative concentrations of oxidants and reductants, i.e. the cellular redox environment and (ii) MnP biodistribution. 
Impaired axonal transport of opiate and muscarinic receptors in streptozocin-diabetic rats.	Axonal transport of receptors was studied in streptozocin-diabetic rats using two different binding models. Streptozocin-induced hyperglycemia caused a reduced accumulation of muscarinic receptors above a ligature placed on rat sciatic nerves when the binding assay was performed in vitro with [3H]QNB. In the vagus nerve, the retrograde axonal transport of receptor-bound opiate was strongly decreased in the streptozocin-treated rats when [3H]lofentanil was used in vivo to label opiate receptors. Insulin partly reversed the changes observed in the streptozocin-treated rats. These findings suggest that impaired axonal transport of receptors may explain part of the neurological disturbance which is seen in diabetic patients.
miR-23a is decreased during muscle atrophy by a mechanism that includes calcineurin signaling and exosome-mediated export.	Skeletal muscle atrophy is prevalent in chronic diseases, and microRNAs (miRs) may play a key role in the wasting process. miR-23a was previously shown to inhibit the expression of atrogin-1 and muscle RING-finger protein-1 (MuRF1) in muscle. It also was reported to be regulated by cytoplasmic nuclear factor of activated T cells 3 (NFATc3) in cardiomyocytes. The objective of this study was to determine if miR-23a is regulated during muscle atrophy and to evaluate the relationship between calcineurin (Cn)/NFAT signaling and miR-23a expression in skeletal muscle cells during atrophy. miR-23a was decreased in the gastrocnemius of rats with acute streptozotocin-induced diabetes, a condition known to increase atrogin-1 and MuRF1 expression and cause atrophy. Treatment of C2C12 myotubes with dexamethasone (Dex) for 48 h also reduced miR-23a as well as RCAN1.4 mRNA, which is transcriptionally regulated by NFAT. NFATc3 nuclear localization and the amount of miR-23a decreased rapidly within 1 h of Dex administration, suggesting a link between Cn signaling and miR-23a. The level of miR-23a was lower in primary myotubes from mice lacking the - or -isoform of the CnA catalytic subunit than wild-type mice. Dex did not further suppress miR-23a in myotubes from Cn-deficient mice. Overexpression of CnA in C2C12 myotubes prevented Dex-induced suppression of miR-23a. Finally, miR-23a was present in exosomes isolated from the media of C2C12 myotubes, and Dex increased its exosomal abundance. Dex did not alter the number of exosomes released into the media. We conclude that atrophy-inducing conditions downregulate miR-23a in muscle by mechanisms involving attenuated Cn/NFAT signaling and selective packaging into exosomes. 
Effect of naringenin on brain insulin signaling and cognitive functions in ICV-STZ induced dementia model of rats.	Recent evidence indicates that severe abnormalities in brain glucose/energy metabolism and insulin signaling have been documented to take a pivotal role in early sporadic Alzheimer's disease pathology. It has been reported that naringenin (NAR), derived from citrus aurantium, exhibits antioxidant potential and protects the brain against neurodegeneration. The current study was designed to further investigate the protective effect of the NAR on neurodegeneration in a rat model of AD induced by an intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of streptozotocin (STZ), and to determine whether this neuroprotective effect was associated with brain insulin signaling. Rats were injected bilaterally with ICV-STZ (3 mg/kg), while sham rats received the same volume of vehicle and then supplemented with NAR (25, 50 mg, 100 mg/kg, respectively) for 3 weeks. The ICV-STZ injected rats did not have elevated blood glucose levels. 21 days following ICV-STZ injection, rats treated with NAR had better learning and memory performance in the Morris water maze test compared with rats treated with saline. We demonstrated that NAR increased the mRNA expression of INS and INSR in cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In addition, NAR reversed ICV-STZ induced Tau hyper-phosphorylation in both hippocampus and cerebral cortex through downregulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) activity, a key kinase in the insulin signaling. Brain levels of Abeta, which were elevated in ICV-STZ rats, were significantly reduced in NAR-treated rats via upregulation of insulin degrading enzyme. These effects were mediated by increased insulin and insulin receptors expression in the brain, suggesting that insulin sensitizer agents might have therapeutic efficacy in early AD.
Mesenchymal stem cell therapy ameliorates diabetic hepatocyte damage in mice by inhibiting infiltration of bone marrow-derived cells.	Although mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been implicated in hepatic injury, the mechanism through which they contribute to diabetic liver disease has not been clarified. In this study, we investigated the effects of MSC therapy on diabetic liver damage with a focus on the role of bone-marrow-derived cells (BMDCs), which infiltrate the liver, and elucidated the mechanism mediating this process. Rat bone-marrow (BM)-derived MSCs were administered to high-fat diet (HFD)-induced type 2 diabetic mice and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced insulin-deficient diabetic mice. MSC-conditioned medium (MSC-CM) was also administered to examine the trophic effects of MSCs on liver damage. Therapeutic effects of MSCs were analyzed by assessing serum liver enzyme levels and histological findings. Kinetic and molecular profiles of BMDCs in the liver were evaluated using BM-chimeric mice. Curative effects of MSC and MSC-CM therapies were similar because both ameliorated the aggravation of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase at 8 weeks of treatment, despite persistent hyperlipidemia and hyperinsulinemia in HFD-diabetic mice and persistent hyperglycemia in STZ-diabetic mice. Furthermore, both therapies suppressed the abnormal infiltration of BMDCs into the liver, reversed excessive expression of proinflammatory cytokines in parenchymal cells, and regulated proliferation and survival signaling in the liver in both HFD- and STZ-diabetic mice. In addition to inducing hepatocyte regeneration in STZ-diabetic mice, both therapies also prevented excessive lipid accumulation and apoptosis of hepatocytes and reversed insulin resistance (IR) in HFD-diabetic mice.
Diabetes-induced changes in monoamine concentrations of rat hypothalamic nuclei.	Streptozotocin-induced diabetes produced marked alterations of monoamine concentrations in several hypothalamic nuclei of male and female rats. Norepinephrine (NE) concentrations were significantly elevated in the median eminence (ME), supraoptic nucleus (SON) and periventricular nucleus (PEVN) in both sexes of diabetic rats. NE concentrations in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and ventromedial nucleus (VMN) of male and female diabetic animals remained unaltered. Serotonin (5-HT) concentrations were increased in PEVN of male and female diabetic rats. No significant changes in hypothalamic dopamine (DA) concentrations were observed. Insulin treatment reversed the diabetes-related changes in monoamine concentrations in most of the nuclei. The significance of these biochemical changes relative to the endocrine and behavioral abnormalities in diabetes is discussed.
Ginsenoside Rg5 improves cognitive dysfunction and beta-amyloid deposition in STZ-induced memory impaired rats via attenuating neuroinflammatory responses.	Neuroinflammatory responses play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Ginsenoside Rg5 (Rg5), an abundant natural compound in Panax ginseng, has been found to be beneficial in treating AD. In the present study, we demonstrated that Rg5 improved cognitive dysfunction and attenuated neuroinflammatory responses in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced memory impaired rats. Cognitive deficits were ameliorated with Rg5 (5, 10 and 20mg/kg) treatment in a dose-dependent manner together with decreased levels of inflammatory cytokines TNF- and IL-1 (P<0.05) in brains of STZ rats. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was also significantly reduced by Rg5 whereas choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity was remarkably increased in the cortex and hippocampus of STZ-induced AD rats (P<0.05). In addition, Congo red and immunohistochemistry staining results showed that Rg5 alleviated A deposition but enhanced the expressions of insulin-like growth factors 1 (IGF-1) and brain derived neurophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex (P<0.05). Western blot analysis also demonstrated that Rg5 increased remarkably BDNF and IGF-1 expressions whereas decreased significantly A deposits (P<0.05). Furthermore, it was observed that the expressions of COX-2 and iNOS were significantly up-regulated in STZ-induced AD rats and down-regulated strongly (P<0.05) by Rg5 compared with control rats. These data demonstrated that STZ-induced learning and memory impairments in rats could be improved by Rg5, which was associated with attenuating neuroinflammatory responses. Our findings suggested that Rg5 could be a beneficial agent for the treatment of AD. 
Upregulation of insulin secretion and downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress and hyperglycemia in STZ-nicotinamide-induced type 2 diabetic rats by Pseuduvaria monticola bark extract.	The current study aimed to ascertain the antidiabetic potential of Pseuduvaria monticola bark methanolic extract (PMm) using in vitro mechanistic study models. In particular, the study determined the effect of PMm on cellular viability, 2-NBDG glucose uptake, insulin secretion, and NF-B translocation in mouse pancreatic insulinoma cells (NIT-1). Furthermore, in vivo acute toxicity and antidiabetic studies were performed using streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type 1 and STZ-nicotinamide-induced type 2 diabetic rat models to evaluate various biochemical parameters and markers of oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Five isoquinoline alkaloids and three phenolic compounds were tentatively identified in the PMm by LC/MS Triple TOF. The study results showed that PMm is non-toxic to NIT-1 cells and significantly increased the glucose uptake and insulin secretion without affecting the translocation of NF-B. Moreover, the non-toxic effects of PMm were confirmed through an in vivo acute toxicity study, which revealed that the serum insulin and C-peptide levels were significantly upregulated in type 2 diabetic rats and that no significant changes were observed in type 1 diabetic rats. Similarly, PMm was found to downregulate the levels of oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines in type 2 diabetic rats by alleviating hyperglycemia. Therefore, we conclude that PMm may be developed as an antidiabetic agent for the treatment of type 2 diabetes-associated conditions. 
Cardioprotective effects of magnesium valproate in type 2 diabetes mellitus.	We have evaluated the effect of magnesium valproate (210 mg/kg/day, p.o.) in type 2 diabetes induced cardiovascular complications induced by streptozotocin (STZ, 90 mg/kg, i.p.) in neonatal wistar rats. Various biochemical, cardiovascular and hemodynamic parameters were measured at the end of 8 weeks of treatment. STZ produced significant hyperglycaemia, hypoinsulinemia and dyslipidemia, which was prevented by magnesium valproate treatment. STZ produced increase in Creatinine Kinase, C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels and treatment with magnesium valproate produced reduction in these levels. STZ produced increase in cardiac and LV hypertrophy index, LV/RV ratio, LV collagen deposition and LV cardiomyocyte diameter which were decreased by magnesium valproate treatment. Magnesium valproate also prevented STZ induced hemodynamic alterations and oxidative stress. These results were further supported by histopathological studies in which magnesium valproate showed marked reduction in fibrosis and cardiac fiber disarray. In conclusion, our data suggests that magnesium valproate is beneficial as an anti-diabetic agent in type-2 diabetes mellitus and also prevents its cardiac complications.
Adipocyte dysfunction in rats with streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetes.	Administration of streptozotocin (STZ) and nicotinamide (NA) to adult rats allows for the induction of mild diabetes. However, this experimental model has not been fully characterized. This study was undertaken to determine the metabolic and secretory activity of adipose tissue in rats with STZ-NA-induced diabetes. Experiments were performed using epididymal adipocytes isolated from control and mildly diabetic rats. Lipogenesis, glucose transport as well as glucose and alanine oxidation, lipolysis, anti-lipolysis, cAMP levels and adipokine secretion were compared in cells isolated from the control and diabetic rats. Lipogenesis, glucose transport and oxidation were diminished in the adipocytes of diabetic rats compared with the fat cells of control animals. However, alanine oxidation appeared to be similar in the cells of non-diabetic and diabetic animals. Lipolytic response to low epinephrine concentrations was slightly increased in the adipocytes of diabetic rats; however, at higher concentrations of the hormone, lipolysis was similar in both groups of cells. The epinephrine-induced rise in cAMP levels was higher in the adipocytes of STZ-NA-induced diabetic rats, even in the presence of insulin. Lipolysis stimulated by dibutyryl-cAMP did not significantly differ, whereas anti-lipolytic effects of insulin were mildly decreased in the cells of diabetic rats. Secretion of adiponectin and leptin was substantially diminished in the adipocytes of diabetic rats compared with the cells of control animals. Our studies demonstrated that the balance between lipogenesis and lipolysis in the adipose tissue of rats with mild diabetes induced by STZ and NA is slightly shifted towards reduced lipid accumulation. Simultaneously, adiponectin and leptin secretion is significantly impaired. 
Metallothionein prevents cardiac pathological changes in diabetes by modulating nitration and inactivation of cardiac ATP synthase.	Mitochondrial ATP production is the main energy source for the cell. Diabetes reduces the efficient generation of ATP, possibly due to the inactivation of ATP synthase. However, the exact mechanism by which diabetes induces inactivation of ATP synthase remains unknown, as well as whether such inactivation has a role in the development of pathological abnormalities of the diabetic heart. To address these issues, we used cardiac metallothionein-transgenic (MT-TG) and wild-type (WT) mice with streptozotocin-induced diabetes, since we have demonstrated previously that diabetes-induced cardiac damage and remodeling were found in WT diabetic mice, but not in MT-TG diabetic mice. Immunohistochemical and biochemical assays were used to compare pathological and biochemical changes of the heart between MT-TG and WT diabetic mice, and a proteomic assay to evaluate ATP synthase expression and tyrosine nitration, with its activity. LC/MS analysis revealed that diabetes increased tyrosine nitration of the ATP synthase  subunit at Tyr(271), Tyr(311), and Tyr(476), and the  subunit at Tyr(269) and Tyr(508), and also significantly reduced ATP synthase activity by ~32%. These changes were not observed in MT-TG diabetic mice. Furthermore, parallel experiments with induced expression of cardiac MT by zinc supplementation in diabetic mice produced similar effects. These results suggest that MT can preserve ATP synthase activity in streptozotocin-induced diabetes, probably through the inhibition of ATP synthase nitration. 
Protective effects of crocin against streptozotocin-induced oxidative damage in rat striatum.	The study aimed to investigate the protective effects of crocin (Cro) against streptozotocin (STZ)-induced oxidative damage in rat striatum. Animals were randomly divided into four groups (five each). Group 1 (sham) were treated with normal saline (2 ml/kg, p.o.). Group 2 (STZ-lesioned or lesion) were injected with ICV-STZ (3 mg/kg bilaterally, on day 1 and 3) and treated with normal saline (2 ml/kg, p.o.) respectively, for 21 days. Group 3 (sham+Cro) were injected ICV on day 1 and 3 with artificial CSF and treated with crocin (100 mg/kg, p.o.) for 21 days. Group 4 (lesion+Cro) were injected with ICV STZ (3 mg/kg bilaterally, on day 1 and 3) and treated with crocin (100 mg/kg, p.o.) for 21 days. The homogenized striatum was used for measuring malondialdehyde (MDA), and total thiol contents besides glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity. Crocin treatment resulted in a significant reduction in MDA concentration as compared to the STZ-lesioned rats. Moreover, crocin produced a significant elevation in total thiol content and GPx activity, as compared with STZ-lesioned group. The present findings provide evidence that crocin may have a therapeutic significance for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Berberine reduces ischemia/reperfusion-induced myocardial apoptosis via activating AMPK and PI3K-Akt signaling in diabetic rats.	Diabetes increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Berberine (BBR), an isoquinoline alkaloid used in Chinese medicine, exerts anti-diabetic effect by lowering blood glucose and regulating lipid metabolism. It has been reported that BBR decreases mortality in patients with chronic congestive heart failure. However, the molecular mechanisms of these beneficial effects are incompletely understood. In the present study, we sought to determine whether BBR exerts cardioprotective effect against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury in diabetic rats and the underlying mechanisms. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with low dose streptozotocin and fed with a high-fat diet for 12 weeks to induce diabetes. The diabetic rats were intragastrically administered with saline or BBR (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg/d) starting from week 9 to 12. At the end of week 12, all rats were subjected to 30 min of myocardial ischemia and 3 h of reperfusion. BBR significantly improved the recovery of cardiac systolic/diastolic function and reduced myocardial apoptosis in diabetic rats subjected to myocardial I/R. Furthermore, in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, BBR (50 mol/L) reduced hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced myocardial apoptosis, increased Bcl-2/Bax ratio and decreased caspase-3 expression, together with enhanced activation of PI3K-Akt and increased adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and eNOS phosphorylation. Pretreatment with either PI3K/Akt inhibitor wortmannin or AMPK inhibitor Compound C blunted the anti-apoptotic effect of BBR. Our findings demonstrate that BBR exerts anti-apoptotic effect and improves cardiac functional recovery following myocardial I/R via activating AMPK and PI3K-Akt-eNOS signaling in diabetic rats.
Telmisartan treatment ameliorates memory deficits in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice via attenuating cerebral amyloidosis.	Telmisartan, an angiotensin II type 1-receptor blocker (ARBs), has been reported to exert beneficial effects on the central nervous system (CNS). However, the effect of telmisartan on cognitive impairment associated with type 1 diabetes is not well known. Here, we examined the possibility that telmisartan could improve memory function in a type 1 diabetic mouse model, streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. STZ-induced diabetic mice subjected to the Morris Water Maze (MWM) task exhibited a significant decline of spatial learning and memory. Oral administration of telmisartan at two nonhypotensive doses (0.7 or 0.35 mg/kg) significantly improved memory deficits in STZ-induced diabetic mice. Telmisartan treatment markedly reduced A, APP, BACE1, RAGE, and NF-B p65 of the hippocampus and cortex, but did not beneficially affect hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia in the STZ-induced diabetic mice compared with untreated diabetic mice. Taken together, our findings suggest that telmisartan ameliorates memory deficits in type 1 diabetic mice, at least partly because of attenuation of amyloidosis in the brain.
Upregulation of glutamatergic transmission in anterior cingulate cortex in the diabetic rats with neuropathic pain.	Peripheral neuropathic pain is a common complication in the diabetic patients, and the underlying central mechanism remains unclear. Forebrain anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is critically involved in the supraspinal perception of physical and affective components of noxious stimulus and pain modulation. Excitatory glutamatergic transmission in the ACC extensively contributed to the maintenance of negative affective component of chronic pain. The present study examined the adaptation of glutamatergic transmission in the ACC in rats with diabetic neuropathic pain. Injection with streptozotocin (STZ) induced hyperglycemia, thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in the rats. In these rats, significant enhanced basal glutamatergic transmission was observed in the ACC neurons. The increased presynaptic glutamate release and enhanced conductance of postsynaptic glutamate receptors were also observed in the ACC neurons of these modeled rats. Increased phosphorylation of PKM, but not the expression of total PKM, was also observed in the ACC. Microinjection of PKM inhibitor ZIP into ACC attenuated the upregulation of glutamate transmission and painful behaviors in STZ-injected rats. These results revealed a substantial central sensitization in the ACC neurons in the rodents with diabetic neuropathic pain, which may partially underlie the negative affective components of patients with diabetic neuropathic pain. 
Increased levels of fatty acids contributed to induction of hepatic CYP3A4 activity induced by diabetes - in vitro evidence from HepG2 cell and Fa2N-4 cell lines.	Accumulating evidences have shown that diabetes upregulated the function and expression of CYP3A4, but the mechanism remained unclear. In this study, HepG2 cells were incubated with serum from diabetic rats induced by streptozotocin, and the activity of CYP3A4 was measured by substrate metabolism. Results showed that incubation with diabetic serum significantly induced CYP3A4 activity in HepG2 cells. To identify the specific factors contributing to the regulation, the abnormally altered components in diabetic serum, including glucose, insulin, cholesterol, and free fatty acids were screened. It was found that only fatty acids concentration-dependently up-regulated CYP3A4 activity, and the induction by fatty acids was further confirmed in Fa2N-4 cells. Data from western blotting and QT-PCR showed that induction of CYP3A4 activity was associated with up-regulation of CYP3A4 protein and mRNA levels. In addition, effects of pharmacological inhibitors on fatty acid-induced CYP3A4 activity were studied. The results indicated that the induction of CYP3A4 activity by oleic acid may be partly via AMPK-, PKC-, and NF-B-dependent pathways, whereas that by palmitic acid was possibly associated with the PKC-dependent pathway. In conclusion, the increased levels of fatty acids may be one of the reasons leading to the elevated function and expression of CYP3A4 under diabetic conditions. 
Orally administrated ascorbic acid suppresses neuronal damage and modifies expression of SVCT2 and GLUT1 in the brain of diabetic rats with cerebral ischemia-reperfusion.	Diabetes mellitus is known to exacerbate cerebral ischemic injury. In the present study, we investigated antiapoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects of oral supplementation of ascorbic acid (AA) on cerebral injury caused by middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion (MCAO/Re) in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. We also evaluated the effects of AA on expression of sodium-dependent vitamin C transporter 2 (SVCT2) and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) after MCAO/Re in the brain. The diabetic state markedly aggravated MCAO/Re-induced cerebral damage, as assessed by infarct volume and edema. Pretreatment with AA (100 mg/kg, p.o.) for two weeks significantly suppressed the exacerbation of damage in the brain of diabetic rats. AA also suppressed the production of superoxide radical, activation of caspase-3, and expression of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-1) in the ischemic penumbra. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that expression of SVCT2 was upregulated primarily in neurons and capillary endothelial cells after MCAO/Re in the nondiabetic cortex, accompanied by an increase in total AA (AA + dehydroascorbic acid) in the tissue, and that these responses were suppressed in the diabetic rats. AA supplementation to the diabetic rats restored these responses to the levels of the nondiabetic rats. Furthermore, AA markedly upregulated the basal expression of GLUT1 in endothelial cells of nondiabetic and diabetic cortex, which did not affect total AA levels in the cortex. These results suggest that daily intake of AA attenuates the exacerbation of cerebral ischemic injury in a diabetic state, which may be attributed to anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects via the improvement of augmented oxidative stress in the brain. AA supplementation may protect endothelial function against the exacerbated ischemic oxidative injury in the diabetic state and improve AA transport through SVCT2 in the cortex.
The protective effects of insulin and natural honey against hippocampal cell death in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	We investigated the effects of insulin and honey as antioxidants to prevent the hippocampal cell death in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. We selected sixty Wister rats (5 groups of 12 animals each), including the control group (C), and four diabetic groups (control (D) and 3 groups treated with insulin (I), honey (H), and insulin plus honey (I + H)). Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin injection (IP, 60 mg/kg). Six weeks after the induction of diabetes, the group I received insulin (3-4 U/kg/day, SC), group H received honey (5 mg/kg/day, IP), and group I + H received a combination of the above at the same dose. Groups C and D received normal saline. Two weeks after treatment, rats were sacrificed and the hippocampus was extracted. Neuronal cell death in the hippocampal region was examined using trypan blue assay, "H & E" staining, and TUNEL assay. Cell viability assessment showed significantly lower number of living cells in group D than in group C. Besides, the mean number of living cells was significantly higher in group I, H, and I + H compared to group D. Therefore, it can be concluded that the treatment of the diabetic rats with insulin, honey, and a combination of insulin and honey can prevent neuronal cell death in different hippocampal areas of the studied samples.
Antiangiogenic treatment diminishes renal injury and dysfunction via regulation of local AKT in early experimental diabetes.	In view of increased vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) expression and renal dysfunction in early diabetes, we designed a study to test whether VEGF-A inhibition can prevent early renal injury and dysfunction. We investigated the relationship and mechanism between VEGF-A and AKT regulation. In vitro, VEGF-A small interfering RNA (siRNA) and AKT inhibitor MK-2206 were employed to podocytes and NRK-52 cells cultured in high glucose (30 mM). In vivo, the antiangiogenic drug endostatin was administered in 12 week-old streptozotocin-induced male Sprague Dawley rats. The levels of VEGF-A, AKT, phosphorylated Ser-AKT, phosphorylated Thr-AKT, nephrin, angiotensin II (Ang II), angiotensin type II receptor 1 (ATR1) were examined using quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Interactions between phosphorylated Thr-AKT and either nephrin in podocytes or Ang II in renal tubules were studied, respectively, using confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and immunoprecipitation. Silencing VEGF-A in podocytes upregulated phosphorylated Thr-AKT and nephrin. Silencing VEGF-A in NRK-52E cells upregulated phosphorylated Thr-AKT while downregulated Ang II and ATR1. MK-2206 enhanced VEGF-A expression in both podocytes and NRK-52E cells by inhibiting AKT activities. In diabetic rat kidneys, VEGF-A was upregulated and phosphorylated Thr-AKT colocalized with either nephrin in podocytes or Ang II in renal tubules. With the endostatin treatment, the level of VEGF-A decreased while phosphorylated Thr-AKT increased in both glomeruli and renal tubules. Treatment with endostatin upregulated nephrin in podocytes while downregulated Ang II and AT1R in renal tubules. Glomerular mesangial expansion was attenuated by the endostatin treatment, however, differences did not reach statistical significance. Endostatin ameliorated the interstitial fibrosis, urine albumin excretion rate (UAER) and albumin to creatinine ratio. We conclude that phosphorylated Thr-AKT regulates VEGF-A expression by interacting with either nephrin in glomeruli or Ang II in renal tubules. Antiangiogenic treatment improves renal injury and function in early experimental diabetes.
Assessment of left ventricular myocardial systolic acceleration in diabetic rats using velocity vector imaging.	The purpose of this study was to investigate how the myocardial acceleration during isovolumic contraction changed in rats with diabetic cardiomyopathy and a normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) by using velocity vector imaging.
Role of parotid amylase in starch digestion in the gastro-intestinal tracts of diabetic rats.	In order for the role of parotid amylase in starch digestion in the gastro-intestinal tracts of diabetic rats to be clarified, this study investigated the effect of parotid-duct ligation on both amylase secretion from the parotid glands and pancreas into the gastro-intestinal tract and on starch digestion in the gastro-intestinal contents during feedings. In both diabetic rats and control rats, parotid-duct ligation reduced amylase activity in both the parotid glands during fasting and in the gastric contents after feeding. The amylase activity in the intestinal contents after feeding was reduced by parotid-duct ligation in the diabetic rats. Starch digestion in the gastro-intestinal tract after feeding was reduced by parotid-duct ligation in the diabetic rats. The results suggest that most of the amylase activity in the gastric contents and a large part of the amylase activity in the intestinal contents are derived from the parotid glands, and that parotid amylase plays an important role in starch digestion in the gastro-intestinal tracts of diabetic rats.
Potential novel biomarkers for diabetic testicular damage in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats: nerve growth factor Beta and vascular endothelial growth factor.	It is well known that diabetes mellitus may cause testicular damage. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and nerve growth factor beta (NGF-) are important neurotrophic factors for male reproductive system.
Low protein diet inhibits uric acid synthesis and attenuates renal damage in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Several studies indicated that hyperuricemia may link to the worsening of diabetic nephropathy (DN). Meanwhile, low protein diet (LPD) retards exacerbation of renal damage in chronic kidney disease. We then assessed whether LPD influences uric acid metabolism and benefits the progression of DN in streptozotocin- (STZ-) induced diabetic rats.
Tracing fasting glucose fluxes with unstressed catheter approach in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats.	Blood glucose concentrations of type 1 diabetic rats are vulnerable, especially to stress and trauma. The present study aimed to investigate the fasting endogenous glucose production and skeletal muscle glucose uptake of Streptozotocin induced type 1 diabetic rats using an unstressed vein and artery implantation of catheters at the tails of the rats as a platform.
Pathogenesis of peripheral neuropathy in streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats]	Experimental diabetes rats was induced in rats by intraperitoneal streptozotocin. The changes of glucose, sorbitol, fructose and free myoinositol in diabetic sciatic nerve and plasma, the changes of enzyme activity of sciatic nerve in relation to glucose, lipid and protein metabolism were studied during 1, 2, 4, 6, 12 weeks after induction of diabetes. The structural changes of 6 and 12 week diabetic sciatic nerve were observed sequentially by light and electron microscopy during the course of 6 and 12 weeks. The results showed that glucose, sorbitol and fructose in blood and sciatic nerve were increased markedly, but free myo-inositol was normal in blood and decreased in sciatic nerve. The enzyme activity such as ICDH, MDH, LDH, alpha-GPDH all reduced, but the activity of sorbitol dehydrogenase increased. Various ultrastructural changes such as swollen unmyelinated fibers, swollen mitochondria in axon, degenerative changes of myelin sheath and atrophic axon were observed, but no changes was found by light microscopy.
Effects of streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia on agonist-stimulated phosphatidylinositol turnover in rat aorta.	Altered vascular sensitivity and responsiveness has been previously described in various stages of experimental diabetes mellitus. Increases in membrane bound Ca2+ and intracellular calcium in diabetic aorta have been postulated to explain excitation-coupling dysfunction in diabetic vascular smooth muscle (VSM). Receptor-mediated phosphatidylinositol (PI) hydrolysis is known to activate VSM contraction; thus contractile changes in diabetic aorta could be functionally linked to abnormal PI turnover. To evaluate this possibility, parallel experiments were undertaken to study contractility and receptor-stimulated PI turnover with norepinephrine (NE), phenylephrine (PE), and serotonin (5-HT). At 7 and 28 days following injection of streptozotocin with production of the hyperglycemic state, aortas were harvested for contractile and PI turnover experiments. No differences in the contractile cumulative dose responses or receptor-mediated PI turnover were measured in the 7 day group. At 28 days, vascular supersensitivity and increased responsiveness were observed. PI hydrolysis in basal and agonist-stimulated aorta was, however, markedly decreased at 28 days. These findings suggest that mobilization and utilization of Ca2+ during contraction occur independently of receptor-stimulated PI hydrolysis in aorta from hyperglycemic rats. The duration of hyperglycemia also significantly effects contractility and PI turnover in rat aorta.
Spontaneous recovery of streptozotocin diabetes in mice.	With the aim of developing a model of experimental diabetes by which spontaneous recovery processes can be investigated, we used a lower (1) and a higher (2) dose of streptozotocin (SZ) to find out the lowest possible dose definitely inducing diabetes in mice through beta cell loss but preventing excessive damage to the endocrine pancreas which would exclude restoration processes. After application of SZ (1) to neonatal mice only male animals showed an overt diabetes in adult life. 70 percent of these mice had recovered 15 weeks after appearance of diabetes. Recovery was indicated by normalization of blood glucose, serum insulin, insulin secretion and biosynthesis of isolated pancreatic islets and a reenhancement of the pancreatic insulin content from lower than 10 to 30 percent of control values. After SZ (2) both sexes became hyperglycaemic, and the recovery rate was lower, but was increased by pregnancy in female mice. By means of this model it will be possible to investigate mechanisms and promoting factors of such restoration processes in more detail.
Studies on sex dependency of B-cell susceptibility to streptozotocin in a rat model of type II diabetes mellitus.	Non-insulin-dependent (Type 2) diabetes in the rat can be induced by a neonatal injection of streptozotocin (STZ). At adult age male rats are more severely affected than female rats. Such difference could be due to a sex-related dissimilarity in susceptibility to STZ; this possibility was investigated in the present study. Incubation of isolated islets from male and female rats with STZ for 30 min, followed by tissue culture for 24 h, induced a dose-dependent decrease in insulin content that was similar in islets of both sexes. STZ in vivo, injected i.p on the second day of life, markedly enhanced blood glucose levels and reduced pancreatic insulin content when measured 2-12 days after the STZ injection. The parameters of B-cell damage did not differ, however, between male and female pups. Testosterone treatment, when started two days after the STZ injection, significantly accentuated hyperglycemia in both sexes during the second week of life. Body weight and pancreatic insulin content were not affected by the testosterone treatment. In conclusion, B-cell susceptibility to STZ in vitro or in vivo, during the neonatal period, is not influenced by gender. The hyperglycemic effect of testosterone indicates that the rise in androgens, starting with puberty, is at least partially responsible for a more severe diabetic state in male than in female rats at adult age.
A comparison between insulin and glucagon release from orthotopically-placed islets of Langerhans and after their transplantation into the liver of diabetic rats.	The ability of islets of Langerhans to release insulin (IRI) and glucagon (IRG) after stimulation with glucose and arginine was analyzed by using isolated perfused pancreas of Lewis-rats and by using perfused liver three months after syngenic portal islet transplantation. Transplanted islets preserve their functional integrity so that the shape and magnitude of IRI and IRG release, respectively, can be compared with normal islet reactivity. They are able to release insulin after stimulation with 16 mM glucose having a typical biphasic secretion profile. The islet and B-cell volume, as well as the insulin and glucagon content of the recipient pancreas, are decreased significantly three months after islet transplantation when compared with healthy controls.
Alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated modulation of noradrenaline release is decreased in vas deferens but not in cerebral cortex of diabetic rats.	In the present study, a superfusion method was used to investigate the alpha 2-adrenoceptor mediated modulation of the electrically evoked release of radiolabeled noradrenaline in vas deferens and cerebral cortex slices of streptozotocin-diabetic and control rats 8-10 weeks after the induction of diabetes. Stimulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors led to a significantly smaller inhibition of radiolabeled noradrenaline release in the vas deferens of diabetic rats as compared to control rats. In the cerebral cortex no such difference was detected. It is concluded that these effects could be due to a decrease in the number of presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the vas deferens of diabetic rats. The results of this study show that the superfusion technique offers a simple possibility to obtain information about the functional integrity of noradrenergic neurons in the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system in diabetes mellitus. Moreover, the results provide an indication for a different time scale in the development of neuropathy in the peripheral and central nervous system of streptozotocin-diabetic rats.
Protein glycosylation and collagen metabolism in normal and diabetic rats.	The high concentration of glycosylated extracellular proteins found in diabetics may contribute adversely to wound healing. The degree of collagen glycosylation was correlated with collagenase activity and 5-hydroxyproline (5-OHP) levels in surgical wounds of normal and diabetic animals. Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) wound cylinders were implanted subcutaneously in 10 normal and 10 streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Nonenzymatic glycosylation (NEG) of protein was inhibited in half the subjects in each group by daily enteral acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Wound cylinders were removed on the fifth day and assayed for collagenase activity and 5-OHP levels, and the degree of collagen glycosylation was measured with an assay for 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF). Results were compared using Student's two-tailed t test. When compared with controls, diabetic animals had less wound 5-OHP (1.87 +/- 0.01 vs 3.11 +/- 0.03 micrograms/cm PTFE) (P less than 0.0001), higher levels of glycosylated collagen (215 +/- 11 vs 150 +/- 9 micrograms 5-HMF/mg protein) (P less than 0.001), and increased collagenase activity (13.5 +/- 0.6 vs 11.7 +/- 0.5 microgram collagen/mg protein/hr) (P less than 0.001). When ASA was added to the diet of diabetic animals, results in each case were statistically indistinguishable from controls. The collagenase activity of nondiabetic animals receiving ASA was decreased from nondiabetic controls (7.6 +/- 0.5 vs 11.7 +/- 0.5 microgram collagen/mg protein/hr) (P less than 0.001). These data show that ASA inhibits NEG of wound collagen in vivo, and ASA may normalize some abnormalities of wound healing found in diabetic animals.
Cyclo(His-Pro) concentration. Changes in brain striatum of hyperglycemic rat.	We scrutinized whether the hyperglycemic status changed the concentration of prototype neuropeptides cyclo(His-Pro) and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in the rat brain. Streptozocin-induced hyperglycemia caused a significant increase in cyclo(His-Pro) concentration in the striatum but not in the other brain regions, whereas TRH concentration in any brain region did not differ between control and hyperglycemic groups. Insulin injection normalized blood glucose level and prevented an increase in cyclo(His-Pro) concentration after hyperglycemia. These data indicate that hyperglycemia causes a profound alteration in cyclo(His-Pro) concentration in the rat brain striatum.
Effects of a high protein diet on the evolution of diabetes in streptozotocin-induced and spontaneously diabetic "BB" Wistar rats.	Recently, we demonstrated a reduction in the diabetogenic action of streptozotocin (STZ) in rats previously adapted to a high protein (HP) diet. These data suggested that amelioration of diabetes resulted from the combination of two effects of the HP diet: initial protection against the diabetogenic action of the drug at the time of exposure and subsequent improvement of the induced diabetic condition. The present study evaluated the effects of a HP diet on the evolution of the metabolic condition in rats with STZ-induced or spontaneous diabetes (BB Wistar rats). Two days after STZ injection, the animals were given isocaloric HP (70% protein, 8% fat) or control (66% carbohydrate, 16% protein, 8% fat) diets for 15 days. After 13 days, the STZ-treated rats fed HP diet showed an impressive decrease in severity of diabetes, as judged by rate of body weight change, plasma glucose, urine volume and glycosuria, serum and pancreatic insulin. The BB Wistar rats, already diabetic for 5 weeks before being transferred to the HP or control diet, were treated with daily injections of insulin. After 31 days on the HP diet, the BB rats showed reduced insulin requirement, reduced blood and urinary glucose levels, but no difference in body weight gain or pancreatic insulin content. The data show that short-term use of HP diets can greatly improve the diabetic condition in STZ-treated animals, but that the beneficial effects of the diet are much less marked in rats with chronic spontaneous diabetes. These data suggest that the ameliorating effect of HP diet is fully manifested only when the diabetic rats have a sufficient number of residual functioning B-cells.
Cardiac function in spontaneously hypertensive diabetic rats.	The isolated perfused working heart was used to study hypertensive diabetes-induced alterations in cardiac function at 6 and 12 wk after diabetes was induced. At 6 wk after diabetes induction, cardiac performance was depressed in the diabetic animals. However, there was no difference in cardiac function between normotensive Wistar and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) diabetic rats. Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were also included as normotensive controls in our 12-wk study. Hearts from 12-wk SHR and Wistar diabetic animals exhibited a depressed left ventricular developed pressure and positive and negative dP/dt when compared with control animals. However, this depression was not seen in the WKY diabetic animals. In addition, quantitation of various parameters of heart function revealed highly significant differences between SHR diabetic animals and all other groups associated with an increased mortality. Serum lipids were elevated in SHR and Wistar and were unaffected in WKY diabetic rats. Furthermore, thyroid hormone levels were not depressed in WKY diabetic rats as seen in the other two diabetic groups. This normal lipid metabolism and thyroid status could, in part, explain the lack of cardiac dysfunction in these animals. The data provide further evidence that the combination of hypertension and diabetes mellitus produces greater myocardial dysfunction than with either disease alone and is associated with a significant mortality.
Insulin reversal of biochemical changes in hearts from diabetic rats.	Reversal of myocardial biochemical changes with insulin treatment (4 and 8 wk) was studied in 8 and 12 wk streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats. STZ-induced diabetes was characterized by elevations in blood glucose, serum cholesterol, and triglycerides and depressed serum insulin levels. Insulin treatment for 4 and 8 wk completely restored the serum alterations to control values. The polyuria, polydipsia, and polyphagia were also markedly diminished by the insulin treatment. Diabetic rats had pronounced decreases in body, heart, and left ventricular weights, all of which were completely reversed by the insulin treatment. Hydroxyproline accumulation in diabetic rat hearts was only reversed by the 8-wk and not by the 4-wk insulin treatment. STZ produced a significant depletion of left ventricular magnesium content as well as depression of K+-stimulated sarcoplasmic reticulum and myofibrillar ATPase activities. Both the 4- and 8-wk insulin treatment produced a complete recovery of the myocardial magnesium content. No significant changes in sarcolemmal Na+-K+-ATPase and K+-stimulated p-nitrophenyl phosphatase activities were observed in diabetic animals compared with control. The decreased latency of the lysosomal hydrolase, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, and the increased collagen deposition observed in the diabetic hearts were only partially reversed by the 4-wk insulin treatment, but completely reversed by the 8-wk treatment period.
Hemodynamic alterations in chronically conscious unrestrained diabetic rats.	Important cardiovascular dysfunctions have been described in streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats. To determine the influence of these changes on the hemodynamic state and whether insulin treatment can avoid them, different hemodynamic parameters, obtained by the thermodilution method, were studied in STZ-induced (65 mg/kg) diabetic male Wistar rats, as well as in age-control, weight-control, and insulin-treated diabetic ones. All rats were examined in the conscious, unrestrained state 12 wk after induction of diabetes or acidified saline (pH 4.5) injection. At 12 wk of diabetic state most important findings were normotension, high blood volume, bradycardia, increase in stroke volume, cardiac output, and cardiosomatic ratio, and decrease in total peripheral resistance and cardiac contractility and relaxation (dP/dtmax and dP/dtmin of left ventricular pressure curves). The insulin-treated diabetic rats did not show any hemodynamic differences when compared with the control animals. These results suggest that important hemodynamic alterations are present in the chronic diabetic state, possibly conditioning congestive heart failure. These alterations can be prevented by insulin treatment.
Mineral homeostasis in neonates of streptozotocin-induced noninsulin-dependent diabetic rats and in their mothers during pregnancy and lactation.	To assess the affect of mild diabetes on calcium metabolism in an animal model, we evaluated calcium homeostasis before pregnancy and during gestation and lactation in non-insulindependent (NIDD) diabetic rat mothers and their neonates (NeoDM). Plasma glucose, calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), phosphate (Pi), and immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (iPTH) were measured in the NIDD rats and controls before pregnancy, during the first, second, and third gestational week, and during lactation 12, 24, 48 and 72 h postpartum. The same measurements were performed on NeoDM and controls 12, 24, 48, and 72 h after birth. In the mothers, plasma calcitonin was assayed before pregnancy and at 72 h postpartum. Higher plasma glucose values before pregnancy (216 +/- 9 mg/dl vs 126 +/- 4) and during the second (105 +/- 5 vs 73 +/- 6) and third (114 +/- 8 vs 91 +/- 3) gestational week were observed in diabetic mothers when compared to controls. Glucose values decreased during the second and third gestational week in both groups compared to pregestational values. Plasma Ca, Mg, and Pi were similar in both groups during gestation and lactation except for the third gestational week when plasma Mg was lower in the diabetic mothers (P less than 0.05). Plasma iPTH rose to similar values in both groups during pregnancy. During lactation, plasma iPTH levels were higher and plasma calcitonin levels were lower compared to controls (P less than .05, P less than 0.01, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The preoptic-suprachiasmatic nuclei though morphologically heterogeneous are equally affected by streptozotocin diabetes.	Pituitary and gonadal disorders consistent with abnormal LHRH and LH secretion occur in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. A key role in the synthesis and regulation of LHRH and in the phasic LH release is played by the preoptic-suprachiasmatic region which is mainly formed by the medial preoptic area, the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the medial preoptic area, and the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Therefore we have studied this region by morphology and morphometry in normal and streptozotocin-diabetic rats. In normal animals, the neurons of the above mentioned nuclei were morphologically and morphometrically dissimilar. Independent of their localization, reduced cytoplasmic and nuclear areas were observed in the neurons of diabetic animals. These lesions are consistent with hypotrophied neurons. Consequently, diabetes may impair both synthesis and regulation of LHRH and may therefore account for pituitary disorders, testicular atrophy, and lacking preovulatory LH peaks. The structural differences of the neurons of the three nuclei in normal animals underline their different physiological role. Yet, the similarity of the changes found in all three nuclei suggests a generalized hypofunction of the whole preoptic-suprachiasmatic region under diabetic condition.
Intestinal adaptation to diabetes. Altered Na-dependent nutrient absorption in streptozocin-treated chronically diabetic rats.	To examine the pattern and mechanisms of enhanced intestinal nutrient absorption in diabetes, we measured intestinal transport of 3-O-methylglucose (3OMG), l-alanine (ALA), and SO4 in male Lewis rats made diabetic with streptozocin. Diabetes enhanced 3OMG absorption fivefold in ileum and threefold in jejunum; ALA absorption increased twofold in ileum but not at all in jejunum; ileal SO4 transport was unaffected. Increases in 3OMG and ALA transport were due solely to increases in maximum velocity. The enhancement of ileal glucose absorption was half-maximal in 40-45 d, could be reversed by 10 d of treatment with insulin and did not result from adrenergic denervation. The density of glucose carriers per milligram brush border protein (measured as [3H]phlorizin binding sites) was not altered but there was a sixfold increase in the number of glucose-inhibitable [3H]phlorizin-binding sites in the intact epithelium. Generalized mucosal hypertrophy accounted for less than 30% of this increase. We conclude that the intestine adapts to streptozocin-induced diabetes through recruitment of additional brush border carriers for sugar, probably in the midvillus-to-crypt region.
Does so-called streptozocin hypertension exist in rats?	Although the existence of so-called streptozocin hypertension seems well established, some reports have indicated that no rise in blood pressure (BP) occurred after streptozocin treatments. To ascertain the streptozocin-induced BP response, normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were treated with streptozocin, 40 to 45 and 35 mg/kg i.v., respectively, and BP was determined directly and indirectly every week for 3 to 4 weeks. Direct mean BP was determined without anesthesia or restraint through a cannula inserted into the rat's abdominal aorta. Indirect BP was determined at the tail without anesthesia after prewarming the rat in a holder. Compared with control values, indirect BP increased significantly in diabetic WKY 2 weeks after streptozocin treatment. In contrast, direct BP of these rats decreased, compared with control values. Indirect BP of diabetic SHR was as high as that of the controls, whereas direct BP of diabetic SHR decreased significantly 1 week after the treatment and thereafter, compared with control values. These discrepancies between the direct and indirect BP values may be caused by severe emaciation of diabetic rats. Extra pressure in the cuff may be necessary to occlude the bloodstream. These results indicate that under these conditions the value of BP obtained by the direct measurement is more reliable than that by the indirect one; therefore, we concluded that so-called streptozocin hypertension does not exist.
The effects of myoinositol on the autonomic neuropathy in the streptozotocin diabetic rat--a freeze fracture study.	This report describes a freeze fracture study of rat dorsal sympathetic chain in normal, streptozotocin diabetic on normal diet, and a group fed a 1% myoinositol normal diet. In nonmyelinated fibres, the diabetic group had significant loss of particles on the P face of juxta-axonal Schwann cell membranes, whilst myelinated nerves showed a profound loss of particles on P and E faces. In the group with adjuvant myoinositol the particle numbers were normal in both types of nerve. Axonal plasma membranes showed increased numbers of particles in the P face of the nonmyelinated membranes in the diabetic, but were normal in the myoinositol group. Myelinated axonal membranes showed no significant difference between the diabetic and the normal. Rats on a myoinositol diet showed a significant decrease in the E face particles. These results are consistent with those described in the sciatic myelinated nerves by earlier authors and reinforce the view that myoinositol is an important membrane constituent as phosphatidylinositol and is essential for the expression of normal protein particle numbers.
Ultrastructural observations on myelinated fibres in experimental diabetes: effect of the aldose reductase inhibitor ponalrestat given alone or in conjunction with insulin therapy.	Six groups of rats were studied over a 12-week period: onset and end controls, untreated diabetics, ponalrestat-treated diabetics, insulin-treated diabetics, and diabetics treated with ponalrestat and insulin. The concentrations of glucose, sorbitol and fructose significantly increased and that of myo-inositol significantly decreased in the sciatic nerve of untreated diabetic animals. Ponalrestat administration completely normalized sorbitol levels and partially corrected fructose and myo-inositol concentrations without altering nerve glucose levels. The biochemical abnormalities were also corrected in both the insulin-treated and insulin and ponalrestat-treated diabetic animals. Myelinated fibre cross-sectional areas and axonal areas were significantly less in the tibial nerve of diabetic animals as compared with age-matched controls. Insulin treatment partially corrected the reduction in fibre and axonal area but teased fibre preparations showed an excess of axonal degeneration as compared with controls, untreated diabetics and ponalrestat-treated diabetics. Ponalrestat given alone or in conjunction with insulin therapy did not correct the reduction in fibre or axonal area and single isolated fibres from diabetic animals treated with ponalrestat and insulin showed a marked excess of axonal degeneration, probably related to hypoglycaemia. The study fails to reveal any significant beneficial effect of aldose reductase inhibition on the structural abnormalities in peripheral nerve in experimental diabetes.
Decreased acylation of phosphatidylcholine in diabetic rat erythrocytes.	We investigated the effects of streptozocin-induced diabetes on composition and metabolism of rat erythrocyte lipids. Diabetes produced no change in contents of cholesterol, total phospholipids, and proportions of phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine in phospholipids. The acylation of total phospholipids with palmitic, oleic, or arachidonic acids was decreased (P less than .01) in intact erythrocytes from diabetic versus control animals. This anomaly was underlaid by a decrease (P less than .01) in acylation of phosphatidylcholine, whereas phosphatidylethanolamine was unaffected. The impaired acylation of phosphatidylcholine was unchanged in vitro by insulin or coenzyme A but was restored to control values by ATP and by insulin treatment of the diabetic rats. We conclude that diabetes specifically alters the acylation of at least phosphatidylcholine in rat erythrocyte, an effect that might modify the remodeling of erythrocyte phospholipids and thereby the membrane function.
Persistent grossly elevated plasma immunoglobulin A levels in untreated streptozocin-induced diabetic rats.	Experimental diabetes mellitus was induced in adult male and female rats by injecting streptozocin (STZ; 60 mg/kg i.p.) in preparation for a screening survey of changes in the pattern of undenatured plasma proteins, as revealed by two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis followed by silver staining. As early as 8-12 days later, the 2-D gels revealed three high-molecular-weight plasma protein spots, which persisted for 150 days in the blood of untreated diabetic rats. Such spots were not seen in plasma of normal control rats. Evidence is presented for the presumptive characterization of these proteins as oligomers of immunoglobulin A (IgA). Specific measurement of total IgA content of diabetic plasma samples by single-radial immunodiffusion, after reduction with dithiothreitol and alkylation with iodoacetamide, reveals that IgA content increases linearly from control values of 11.1 +/- 4.6 to 358 +/- 249 mg/dl (means +/- SE) 21 days after STZ and persists at these high levels for as long as 150 days. Diabetic rats injected daily with insulin showed IgA levels only two to four times higher than normal. Neither experiments designed to quantitate the rates of clearance (catabolism plus excretion) of 125I-labeled secretory IgA from the circulation of normal and diabetic rats nor measurement of total IgA in the bile from diabetic and normal bile fistula rats supports the view that slowed clearance from the circulation or impaired biliary excretion in the diabetic rat causes observed gross hyperimmunoglobulinemia A.
Increased plasma IgA, sIgA, and C3- and IgA-containing immune complexes with renal glomerular deposits in diabetic rats.	Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fasted 18 h and given streptozocin (STZ; 60 mg/kg body wt i.p.). The resultant diabetes mellitus, not treated with insulin, was associated with persistent manifoldly increased plasma IgA levels, as measured by single-radial immunodiffusion after reduction with dithiothreitol and alkylation with iodoacetamide. Also observed were concurrent increases in plasma levels of secretory IgA (sIgA) and of C3- and IgA-containing immune complexes (C3-IgA-CIC). After 104 days without insulin treatment, six of the diabetic rats were given daily injections of 2 U of insulin for 11 days. Insulin treatment was associated with a precipitous decrease in plasma levels of IgA, sIgA, and C3-IgA-CIC. Cessation of insulin treatment resulted in restoration of greatly increased levels of all three IgA-containing species. Histoimmunofluorescence studies of kidneys from untreated rats with diabetes of 192-324 days revealed glomerular capillary wall and mesangial deposits reacting strongly with anti-IgA (alpha-chain-specific) antiserum. Kidneys from two of the diabetic rats (324 days) were tested with anti-rat C3 and anti-rat secretory component (SC) antisera, and they reacted positively. Control kidneys from normal rats examined simultaneously were negative. The concurrent changes in plasma levels of three IgA-containing species in the untreated STZ-induced diabetic rat and the demonstration of abnormal immunoreactive IgA-containing renal glomerular deposits make this experiment an attractive model for studying the possible role of disturbed IgA metabolism in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy.
The quantification of cerebral infarction following focal ischemia in the rat: influence of strain, arterial pressure, blood glucose concentration, and age.	Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in rats. The volumetric assessment of infarcted tissue, 2 days following occlusion, was calculated from the examination of eight preselected coronal sections. Five differing rat strains were examined. A small and variable infarcted volume was seen in Wistar-Kyoto rats; Sprague-Dawley rats had a relatively large, but still variable, infarcted volume. Of the normotensive rat strains, the most reproducible volume of infarcted tissue was seen in Fischer-344 rats; also the absolute value of the infarcted volume did not vary from one series to another in this strain. Chronic arterial hypertension, studied in both normal and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, was associated with significantly larger infarction volumes. Age does not change the volume of necrosis: Fischer-344 rats were studied at 3, 9, and 20 months of age, and no significant differences were noted between these ages. Experimental diabetes was induced by the administration of streptozotocin 3 days prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion. Severe hyperglycemia (greater than 400 mg/dl) was associated with a considerably increased volume of infarction. The variability of the resultant lesion is high in the most commonly studied strains, but our results suggest that, for studies in normotensive rats, the use of the Fischer-344 strain produces a standardized and repeatable infarction that may be significantly modified by experimental interventions. Age is not a factor that affects the occlusion-induced infarction; in contrast, both chronic arterial hypertension and experimental diabetes aggravate the histological consequences of middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat. We conclude that quantitative histological evaluation of infarct size allows a meaningful assessment of the gravity of focal cerebral ischemia.
Thiamin status of the offspring of diabetic rats.	Erythrocyte transketolase activity and thiamin pyrophosphate effect were examined in the offspring of streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Thiamin reserve was found to be significantly reduced in litters of untreated diabetic rats as compared to control and to insulin-treated diabetic rats. Supplementation of the untreated diabetic dams throughout pregnancy with oral thiamin was associated with a significantly improved thiamin status of the litters. We conclude that, due to enhanced fetal glucose turnover during diabetic gestation, a fetal thiamin deficiency state may evolve; this condition can be remedied with maternal thiamin supplementation.
Mechanisms for development of diabetic hypertriglyceridemia in streptozotocin-treated rats. Effect of diet and duration of insulin deficiency.	A combined ultrastructural and functional approach was employed to define the effects of duration of diabetes and of diet on various aspects of lipid metabolism in rats with severe streptozotocin (SZ)-induced insulin deficiency. Plasma triglyceride (TG) levels rose to a mean of 479 mg/100 ml 24 h after SZ administration in rats eating a fat-free, high carbohydrate diet as compared to a mean of 324 mg/100 ml in rats eating a high fat diet. These changes were associated with a commensurate increase in hepatocyte Golgi very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) content, but only a small increase in estimates of VLDL-TG secretion rate (post-Triton WR 1339 increment in plasma TG level). Although these findings are consistent with the thesis that VLDL-TG synthesis and secretion are increased 24 h after administration of SZ, it seemed unlikely that the observed increase in VLDL-TG secretion could entirely account for the severity of the hypertriglyceridemia. Thus, although lipoprotein removal rate was not measured directly, it was necessary to postulate that a defect in VLDL-TG removal was also present at this stage. Hypertriglyceridemia was still present 7 days later, only in this instance plasma TG levels were higher in rats eating the high fat diet (a mean of 589 mg/100 ml, as compared to 263 mg/100 ml). Rats with diabetes of 7-day duration had a 50% decrease in both TG entry rate and hepatocyte Golgi complex VLDL content, irrespective of diet. Thus, there was no evidence of increased VLDL-TG secretion in chronic insulin deficiency. In this instance, although not assessed directly, it was necessary to postulate that the hypertriglyceridemia in chronically insulin-deficient rats is due entirely to a defect in lipoprotein removal, involving both dietary and endogenous fat.
Effect of streptozotocin-diabetes on thymus of normal and adrenalectomized rats.	The injection of streptozotocin in intact or adrenalectomized rats produced a decrease in the number of thymus lymphoid cells. Bovine serum albumin gradient analyses of thymocytes from control, adrenalectomized, adrenalectomized-diabetic and diabetic animals showed variations in the mature/immature cell ratio. No remarkable changes in the distribution of the different thymocyte subpopulations were observed.
Selective alteration of secretin-stimulated cardiac adenylate cyclase activity in streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	Secretin stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in heart membranes was selectively altered in streptozotocin-diabetic adult male rats suffering from moderately severe diabetes, 40 days after i.v. streptozotocin administration (40 mg/kg body weight). The efficacy of secretin was reduced by 55% whilst its potency was unaffected. By contrast, the stimulation of adenylate cyclase by NaF, GTP, Gpp(NH)p, D,L-isoproterenol, and glucagon remained normal. The present data, together with the markedly reduced secretin response of cardiac adenylate cyclase in genetically obese (fa/fa) Zucker rats might indicate that hypoinsulinemia and insulin resistance both reduce the number of secretin receptors coupled to the adenylate cyclase system, an alteration whose contribution to diabetic cardiomyopathy remains to be determined.
Relationship between untreated and insulin-treated diabetes and vascular relaxation.	The effects of untreated and insulin-treated streptozotocin-induced diabetes on the ability of the rat aorta maximally contracted with either 10(-4) M phenylephrine (PE) or 70 mM KCl to relax in response to 10(-5) to 10(-2) M theophylline (Theo) were examined. No significant differences between Theo-induced relaxation of the PE-contracture in control, untreated diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic aortas were observed until 12 weeks after the induction of diabetes. Twelve weeks after the induction of diabetes, the untreated diabetic aortas exhibited less relaxation in response to Theo than did the controls. This diabetes-induced decrease in relaxation of the PE-contracture was not reversed by insulin-treatment. Diabetes increased the ability of the K-contracted aortas to relax in response to Theo 4 weeks after the induction of diabetes. This diabetes-induced increase in the Theo-induced relaxation of the K-contracture was reversed by insulin-treatment. Even though there was no difference in the sensitivity of the PE-contracted tissues to Theo, the K-stimulated tissues from the untreated diabetic animals were more susceptible to the relaxing effects of Theo than either the control or insulin-treated aortas. These results indicate that diabetes affects the ability of the vascular smooth muscle to relax in response to theophylline, depending on the length of time in the diabetic state, the type of stimulus (PE or KCl) and whether or not insulin-treatment is applied.
Insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin secretion from isolated perfused rat and chicken pancreas-duodenum.	Insulin, glucagon, and somatostatin secretion were evaluated in the following isolated perfused models: rat pancreas-duodenum (both normal and streptozotocin-diabetic animals) and the chicken pancreas with and without duodenum. Insulin secretion in response to glucose or arginine was greater from the normal rat than either the diabetic rat or the chicken. Glucagon release from both species was suppressed by glucose and stimulated by arginine except that poor inhibition by glucose was found in the diabetic rat. Somatostatin could be measured in the effluent from both normal and diabetic rats, but the responses to glucose and arginine were variable and modest. Clear increases of secretion in the rat were only observed in response to a combination of glucose, arginine, theophylline, and isoproterenol. In contrast, the chicken somatostatin secretion was markedly stimulated by glucose and by arginine. In conclusion, the perfused chicken pancreas-duodenum has been shown to secrete large amounts of somatostatin in comparison to the rat and should prove to be a useful system for the study of D-cell regulation.
The effect of streptozotocin-induced chronic diabetes mellitus on bone and mineral homeostasis in the rat.	Diabetes mellitus was induced in Lewis rats by streptozotocin, and these animals and control rats fed ad lib were studied after 7 weeks. At the time of sacrifice, nondecalcified histological sections of bone were prepared and subsequently quantitated by micromorphometric techniques. In addition, tibial alkaline phosphatase and mineral ash content were determined. The bones obtained from the diabetic animals are characterized by significant decrements in the quantities of osteoid and osteoclasts and by failure to acquire a tetracycline label. These histological features are attended by reduced quantities of urinary hydroxyproline and tibial alkaline phosphatase. As compared with control animals fed ad lib, diabetic rats are hyperphosphatemic and markedly hypercalciuric. Circulating alkaline phosphatase is also elevated and associated with a parallel increase in intestinal content of this enzyme. Although serum corticosterone levels are increased, diabetes is associated with decrements in both circulating immunoreactive parathyroid hormone and 1,25(OH)2D. We conclude that prolonged streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus in the rat results in reduced bone turnover. The relative roles that functional caloric deprivation, low circulating levels of 1,25(OH)2D, hypercalciuria, hypercortisolemia, and decreased blood parathyroid hormone levels play in the genesis of these skeletal abnormalities remain to be determined.
Animal models of diabetes.	Spontaneous diabetes is a common occurrence in many animal species. In addition, animals can be rendered diabetic by a wide variety of experimental procedures. Diabetic animals may be regarded as models of the disease in man. However, such animals display a wide diversity of pathophysiology, and, in fact, no animal syndrome corresponds precisely to any type of diabetes in human subjects. The most common diabetes syndromes in animals occur in the context of obesity, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. Many such syndromes remit spontaneously. Dietary restriction and weight reduction effectively reverse some of these syndromes, but in other cases only partial correction of the syndrome occurs. Diabetes in lean animals is less common. The diabetes of lean animals is more frequently characterized by hypoinsulinemia, ketosis and insulin dependence than is the case with obese animals. Diabetes may be produced experimentally by means of surgery, viral infection or the administration of various hormones and chemical agents. Both the spontaneous and experimental animal models have been used effectively to study the etiologies, complications, treatments and prevention of diabetes.
Insulin treatment affects brain protein synthesis rate in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether insulin treatment affected the rate of brain protein synthesis in diabetic rats. Experiments were conducted on three groups of rats given streptozotocin without insulin treatment (diabetes), treated with streptozotocin + insulin (diabetes + insulin) or treated with neither streptozotocin nor insulin (control). The fractional rates of protein synthesis in brain, liver and kidney of diabetic rats treated with insulin were significantly greater than in diabetic rats without insulin treatment. In brain, liver and kidney, the RNA activity [g protein synthesized/(g RNA.d)] was significantly correlated with the fractional rate of protein synthesis. The RNA concentration (mg RNA/g protein) was not related to the fractional rate of protein synthesis in any organ. The results suggest that insulin treatment of diabetic rats is likely to increase the rate of protein synthesis in the brain, and that RNA activity is related to the fractional rate of brain protein synthesis.
Effects of acetaldehyde on the isolated papillary muscle of diabetic rats.	The effects of acetaldehyde (ACA) were examined in isolated electrically driven papillary muscle preparations from normal and streptozotocin-treated diabetic rats. Muscles from diabetic rats developed greater tension than those from normal rats. In muscles from both groups, ACA caused concentration-dependent negative inotropic effects that were independent of cholinergic or purinergic mechanisms and were not attributable to nitric oxide (NO) release. ACA was three to five times more potent with regard to its negative inotropic effect in diabetic than in normal rat muscles. A propranolol-sensitive, sympathetically mediated positive inotropic effect occurred at certain concentrations. Decreasing [Ca2+]o from 2.7 to 0.5 mM reduced basal developed force to a significantly greater extent in muscles from normal rats than in those from diabetic rats. In low [Ca2+]o, concentration-response curves to CaCl2 in diabetic muscles were displaced to the left of that in normal muscles, suggesting that diabetic muscles are more sensitive to the positive inotropic effect of added CaCl2 at low [Ca2+]o, whereas at higher [Ca2+]o (> 1 mM), normal muscles developed more force in response to added CaCl2. ACA 10 and 30 mM more readily inhibited CaCl2-induced positive inotropic effect in normal than in diabetic muscles. Force-frequency curves, (negative staircase response) were recorded in both normal and diabetic muscles. In diabetic muscles, the curve exhibited a positive component at the lowest frequencies applied and was displaced to the right of that in normal muscle. ACA concentration-dependently inhibited force development, and diabetic muscles were more susceptible to the negative inotropic effect of ACA, when the stimulation frequency was increased.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Alpha 2-adrenoceptors and the regulation of glucose, insulin and amylin levels in diabetic rats.	The effects of the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist UK 14.304 on glucose, insulin and amylin levels were examined in neonatal streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. UK 14.304 (0.03 to 0.3 mg/kg i.p.) induced a dose-dependent reduction of both insulin and amylin levels in normal rats while UK 14.304 at 0.03 mg/kg had already a maximal effect in diabetic rats. Amylin/insulin molar ratios rose after UK 14.304 administration in diabetic rats but remainded constant in normal rats. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist deriglidole (3 mg/kg i.p.) slightly increased insulin and amylin levels in the two groups of rats but glucose levels were more markedly decreased in diabetic rats. Deriglidole completely antagonized UK 14.304 (0.1 mg/kg i.p.)-induced changes thereby normalizing amylin/insulin molar ratios in diabetic rats. These results suggest that insulin and amylin are both under inhibitory control via alpha 2-adrenoceptor though the responses may be differentially regulated. It is further suggested that diabetes in the neonatal streptozotocin-induced rat model is associated with a hypersensitivity of the pancreas to alpha 2-adrenoceptor stimulation.
Neurotropin prevents neurophysiological abnormalities and ADP-induced hyperaggregability in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	Neurotropin, a non-proteinaceous extract from the inflamed dermis of rabbits inoculated with vaccinia virus, was administered for 8 weeks to rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. The physiological and biochemical changes of the nerves were studied as well as ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Neurotropin improved the caudal motor nerve conduction velocity, R-R variability, sciatic nerve blood flow, and platelet hyperaggregability in diabetic rats, despite having no effect on sorbitol and fructose accumulation or myoinositol depletion in the sciatic nerve. The correlation between nerve conduction velocity, R-R variability, nerve blood flow, and platelet aggregation were significant between each two parameters (p < 0.0001). Thus, the mechanism of action of neurotropin differed from that of aldose reductase inhibitors. These findings suggest that vascular factors may play an important role in the development of diabetic neuropathy, and that neurotropin may be useful for the treatment of this condition.
Regulation of hormone-sensitive lipase in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Insulin deficiency as seen in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus causes an activation of lipolysis in adipose tissue that results in hydrolysis of stored triglycerides and release of large amounts of fatty acids into the plasma, leading to diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) is thought to be the rate-limiting enzyme of lipolysis in adipose tissue. This study was designed to examine the effects of insulin deficiency on the regulation of HSL in isolated adipocytes. Insulin deficiency was induced by a single dose of streptozotocin. After 8 days, some animals were treated with insulin, and all animals were killed 10 days after induction of insulin deficiency. Compared with levels in control rats, 10 days of insulin deficiency increased HSL activity twofold (P < .05), as assayed for neutral cholesterol esterase activity, and insulin treatment returned HSL activity to normal. HSL protein was increased twofold (P < .05) in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, as estimated by immunoblotting, but remained elevated after insulin treatment. Levels of HSL mRNA assessed by Northern blot analysis also increased twofold (P < .01) in adipose cells isolated from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, and remained elevated after insulin treatment. In conclusion, our studies suggest that 10 days of insulin deficiency increases HSL expression via pretranslational mechanisms and short-term insulin treatment returns HSL activity to normal via posttranslational mechanisms in adipose tissue.
Insulin resistance during euglycemic clamp studies in chronically undernourished rats with mild streptozocin diabetes.	Malnutrition has been shown to impair insulin sensitivity, but it is not known whether this effect has any impact on coexisting diabetes. Insulin sensitivity was therefore studied using the glucose clamp technique in rats with chronic nutritional deprivation superimposed on mild streptozocin (STZ) diabetes mellitus. In pair-feeding experiments, 4-week-old littermate rats were either allowed ad libitum access to food or restricted to 50% of ad libitum intake for 8 weeks, and were injected with STZ 40 mg/kg intraperitoneally halfway through the experiment. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) was similar in both groups of rats, but fasting plasma insulin (FPI) was lower in the undernourished group (P = .016). Undernourished rats were significantly more insulin resistant during euglycemic hyperinsulinemia of the same degree, with glucose disposal rate being impaired by 50% as compared with that in ad libitum-fed diabetic littermates (24.4 +/- 2.8 v 51.5 +/- 4.4 mumol/kg/min, P = .0008). The insulin sensitivity index was significantly lower in the undernourished group (3.03 +/- 0.32 v 5.67 +/- 0.6, P = .0057). The results show that chronic undernutrition markedly reduces insulin sensitivity in rats with mild STZ diabetes. This is further evidence that chronic undernutrition is a deleterious modifying influence on coexisting diabetes mellitus. It suggests that the insulin resistance of malnutrition-related diabetes mellitus (MRDM) could potentially be an acquired defect mediated by the coexistent undernutrition, rather than a "distinctive" feature that is intrinsically unique to this diabetic syndrome.
Increase of voltage-sensitive calcium channels and calcium accumulation in skeletal muscles of streptozocin-induced diabetic rats.	The number of voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VOCC) in triceps surae muscle membrane fractions isolated from control and streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats was determined using [3H]PN200-110, a dihydropyridine derivative, as a ligand. Furthermore, quantitative analysis of calcium in soleus muscle fibers was performed by the calcium oxalate-pyroantimonate method and x-ray microanalysis. The maximum binding (Bmax) of [3H]PN200-110 in skeletal muscle membrane isolated from 10-week diabetic rats (1,091 +/- 77 fmol/mg protein) was increased significantly by 91% as compared with the control value (572 +/- 32 fmol/mg protein), without a significant change in Kd. The increase in Bmax of [3H]PN200-110 was dependent on the duration of diabetes, and was not found until 6 weeks after STZ injection. Insulin treatment for 8 weeks after induction of diabetes normalized Bmax to the control level (583 +/- 53 fmol/mg protein). Precipitates of calcium antimonate, identified by x-ray microanalysis, were observed much more frequently in specimens from 10-week diabetic rats versus controls. The increase in the incidence of precipitates was not observed in 3-week diabetic rats and was suppressed by 8 weeks' insulin treatment. These results indicate that the number of VOCC in chronically diabetic rats was increased in the sarcolemmal membrane of skeletal muscle and that calcium was accumulated inside skeletal muscle fibers.
Determinants of hydroperoxide detoxification in diabetic rat intestine: effect of insulin and fasting on the glutathione redox cycle.	The capacity for hydroperoxide detoxification in diabetic (DM) intestine was studied in streptozocin-induced DM rats by quantification of the intestinal glutathione (GSH) redox cycle, a key cellular pathway for peroxide elimination. A role for luminal glucose in regulation of redox cycle activity was examined in insulin-treated or 24-hour-fasted DM animals. Intestinal activities of the redox enzymes, GSH peroxidase, GSSG reductase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), were significantly decreased by 17 hours' insulin treatment, whereas only G6PD was decreased by fasting. Mucosal GSH levels were also markedly decreased under these conditions. These results are consistent with an overall suppression of intestinal GSH redox cycle function by short-term administration of insulin. Insulin treatment for 7 consecutive days increased hepatic G6PD activity by fourfold but was without effect on intestinal G6PD, suggesting tissue specificity in insulin regulation of G6PD. The rate of metabolism of tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBH) in isolated enterocytes was low in the absence of substrates (0.51 +/- 0.07 nmol/10(6) cells/min) but was increased fivefold by exogenous glucose (2.70 +/- 0.11 nmol/10(6) cells/min), indicating that glucose availability is an important contributor to intestinal detoxification of toxic hydroperoxides. Collectively, the current results show that GSH redox cycle enzymes in DM intestine are under coordinate insulin control, and that this control appears to be downregulated by short-term insulin treatment.
Effect of hydralazine on myocardial plasma membrane fatty acid binding protein (PM-FABP) during diabetes mellitus.	Chronic treatment with the antihypertensive drug hydralazine did not affect the hyperglycemic state of streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats but did prevent the serum hyperlipidemia that is synonymous with these diabetic animals. After 6 weeks, untreated STZ-diabetic rats exhibited a 659% increase in serum triglycerides and 292% increase in serum cholesterol versus age-matched non-diabetic rats. Hydralazine-treated STZ-diabetic rats had serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels that did not differ from controls. Myocytes from control rats showed a preference for binding of the unsaturated fatty acid analog cis-parinaric acid vs the saturated fatty acid analog trans-parinaric acid. This preference was not altered in STZ-diabetic rat myocytes; hydralazine-treatment of STZ-diabetic rats also showed no change in fatty acid preference. STZ-diabetes caused a decrease in the affinity (Kd) for the trans, but not the cis-parinaric acid. However, total binding of both analogs was increased in STZ-diabetes. Hydralazine treatment of STZ-diabetic rats resulted in even greater total binding of both analogs. Affinity for the trans analog was further decreased in these hydralazine-treated rats, but the affinity for the cis analog was increased beyond control animals. These results suggest that the diabetic state influences the binding characteristics of the myocardial PM-FABP and that hydralazine, while reducing serum lipids in diabetes, has complex effects on the fatty acid binding by this protein.
Morphological study on the gastric mucosa in diabetes mellitus rats induced by streptozotocin]	To clarify the pathogenesis of vulnerability to acute gastric mucosal lesion (AGML) in diabetes mellitus (DM), we investigated histopathologically the gastric mucosa of the fundic gland in streptozotocin-induced DM rats. The length of the mucosa and the thickness of the surface epithelial cell (SEC) layer were measured, and the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive cells was counted. As results, compared with control rats, the ratio of the length of SEC layer to that of mucosa, and the number of PCNA positive cells were significantly decreased in DM rats, whereas the length of the mucosa tended to extend in DM rats. Consequently, it is considered that attenuation of mucosal barrier in the SEC layer can be closely associated with susceptibility to occurrence of AGML in DM.
Role of digitalis-like substance in experimental insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus hypertension.	Hypertension is frequently associated with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, but the mechanism of the hypertension is unknown. An animal model of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus hypertension could be helpful in determining the mechanism, but experimental insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus has been infrequently and irregularly associated with hypertension. In an attempt to develop a dependable model of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus hypertension, we studied seven series of rats receiving either streptozotocin, surgical reduction of renal mass, or both. We found that superimposing streptozotocin 65 mg/kg body weight on 25% reduced renal mass regularly produced insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and low-renin volume-expanded hypertension and that the animals remained healthy and hypertensive for as long as followed (13 weeks). Microalbuminuria correlated temporally with blood pressure. We used this dependable model to examine the role of endogenous digitalis-like substance in the development of hypertension in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Plasma levels of digoxin-like immunoreactive factor (DIF), determined with a digoxin radioimmunoassay, were significantly higher in these hypertensive rats than in normotensive control rats (two-kidney diabetic rats, 25% reduced renal mass rats receiving vehicle for streptozotocin). This increase in plasma DIF was associated with a decrease in Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity in microsomes prepared from left or right ventricle. Microsomal 5'-nucleotidase, a plasma membrane marker, was unchanged. The plasma DIF level correlated inversely with myocardial Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity and positively with systolic blood pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Biochemical changes in lens, aqueous humor and vitreous body and effects of aldose reductase inhibitor (TAT) on rats with experimental diabetes]	The etiology of diabetic cataract is usually explained by the following process; the conversion of glucose and galactose to polyol by aldose reductase, then the accumulation of polyol in lens, and the opacity of lens. Another explanation is that the hyperoxidation of lens membrane due to an increase of active oxygen and lipid peroxide in lens induces diabetic cataract. The experimental animals used in the present study were rats with galactose cataract and streptozotocin cataract. We measured the levels of antioxidants (glutathione, ascorbic acid) and lipid peroxide (malonodialdehyde) in lens, aqueous humor and vitreous body. Furthermore we studied the effects of aldose reductase inhibitor (TAT) on these levels. In streptozotocin diabetes rats, the increased malonodialdehyde levels in lens, aqueous humor and serum were suppressed by TAT administration. In galactose and streptozotocin diabetes rats, the decreased levels of glutathione and ascorbic acid were suppressed by TAT administration.
Essential fatty acid deficiency prevents multiple low-dose streptozotocin-induced diabetes in naive and cyclosporin-treated low-responder murine strains.	We have previously shown that essential fatty acid (EFA) deficiency prevents diabetes and ameliorates insulitis in low-dose streptozotocin (LDS)-treated male CD-1 mice. The effects of EFA deficiency on the incidence of diabetes after LDS treatment has not been examined in other strains. In contrast to highly susceptible CD-1 mice, several other strains of mice are only partially susceptible to LDS treatment and do not develop appreciable insulitis; however, the susceptibility of these strains can be markedly increased by cyclosporin A (CsA) pretreatment to reduce suppressor cell function. Weanling male BALB/cByJ, DBA/2J, and C57BL/6J mice were placed on EFA-deficient (EFAD) or control diets for 2 months and then divided into experimental and control groups. Ten EFAD and 10 control mice from each strain received LDS treatment (40 mg/kg/d 5 d); an additional 10 EFAD BALB/cByJ and another 10 control BALB/cByJ mice received subcutaneous CsA injections (20 mg/kg/d) for 14 days prior to and for 5 days simultaneous with LDS treatment (40 mg/kg/d 5 d). Plasma glucose levels for all mice were determined 3 times per week for 3 weeks after LDS treatment. Mean plasma glucose levels (+/- SEM) at the end of the experiment were significantly lower in the EFAD groups vs control groups in BALB/cByJ (P < 0.001), DBA/2J (P < 0.00001), and C57BL/6J (P = 0.012) mice. CsA supplementation increased the severity of diabetes in LDS-treated BALB/cByJ mice (P < 0.0005); however, EFA deficiency also prevented diabetes in CsA-supplemented BALB/cByJ mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term consequences in offspring of diabetes in pregnancy: studies with syngeneic islet-transplanted streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	To study the long-term effects of exposure to maternal hyperglycemia and insulin deficiency in utero, we used the syngeneic islet transplanted streptozotocin-diabetic rat model of diabetes in pregnancy and examined insulin secretion and action in 6-month-old offspring. Female rats were rendered diabetic with streptozotocin and then transplanted with 2500, 750, or 500 islets. Control animals were also studied, and one group whose islet transplants failed remained diabetic. During pregnancy, plasma glucose levels in the diabetic rats and the groups receiving 500 and 750 islets were 24.7 +/- 1.0, 15.3 +/- 1.4, and 7.9 +/- 0.5 mmol/liter, respectively, all significantly greater than the control value (5.6 +/- 0.3 mmol/liter; P < 0.05). The plasma glucose level in the 2500 islet group was 6.2 +/- 0.2 mmol/liter, which was not significantly higher than the control value. When the offspring were studied at 6 months, there was no significant difference between groups in either glucose or insulin levels after iv glucose, although acute insulin secretion tended to be higher in the offspring of the diabetic animals. A study of insulin action with the euglycemic clamp at two insulin levels showed that insulin sensitivity was reduced in the offspring of diabetic animals vs. controls (1.97 +/- 0.24 vs. 7.58 +/- 0.95 mumol/liter x 100/kg/min.pmol/liter; P < 0.05). Insulin sensitivity was also significantly reduced in the 2500, 750, and 500 islet group offspring (4.81 +/- 0.57, 4.82 +/- 0.64, and 4.01 +/- 0.63 mumol/liter x 100/kg/min.pmol/liter; P < 0.05) compared to that in the control. There were no differences in insulin sensitivity between male and female animals. In summary, animals displaying maternal insulin deficiency have offspring who are insulin resistant without any evidence of iv glucose intolerance or diminished insulin secretion.
Severe radicular pathology in rats with longstanding diabetes.	There few pathological abnormalities in nerves from animals with diabetes. Reported changes consist of mild distal axonal atrophy, axoglial disjunction and minimal segmental demyelination and remyelination. These changes are seen in distal nerves but no studies of radicular pathology in diabetic animals have been reported. We therefore studied peripheral nerve and radicular pathology in rats with longstanding, severe, chemically-induced diabetes. We found marked interstitial edema and severe changes of myelin in the roots of diabetic rats, particularly in the dorsal root. The earliest changes consist of myelin splitting, occurring at the intraperiod line. This progresses to myelin ballooning, accompanied by both tubulovescicular myelin degeneration and macrophage stripping, all of which tend to predominate in large myelinated fibers. There is minimal axonal degeneration. Despite these severe changes in nerve roots, the distal peripheral nerves show no discernible edema and only minimal myelin splitting without demyelination or axonal degeneration. The radicular changes are almost identical to those seen in much older nondiabetic animals. This suggests that they may represent an acceleration of the normal aging process, perhaps related to increased glycation of myelin proteins induced by accumulation of glucose rich interstitial endoneurial edema.
Drug-induced endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations in isolated resistance vessels taken from simultaneously hypertensive and streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	Hypertension and diabetes mellitus often co-exist and both conditions may be expected to cause synergistic vascular damage. Our group has introduced an animal model for simultaneously occurring hypertension and diabetes mellitus by treating spontaneously hypertensive rats with streptozotocin (STZ). We investigated the drug-induced endothelium-independent and -dependent relaxation in isolated mesenteric small arteries (resistance vessels). Concerning the influence of hypertension, the responses to sodium nitroprusside, methacholine, histamine and nifedipine proved unchanged, the vasodilator response to bradykinin was diminished, whereas that to the K(+)-channel opener cromakalim was enhanced. With respect to the influence of STZ-induced diabetes we found that the responses to sodium nitroprusside, methacholine and nifedipine were unchanged, and that to cromakalim was enhanced, also when the preparations were pretreated with glibenclamide. The responses to histamine (STZ WKY versus control WKY) and bradykinin (STZ SHR versus control SHR) proved enhanced in the isolated vessels taken from diabetic animals. These findings suggest that the influence of the diabetic state is more pronounced than that of hypertension. However, our findings do not indicate that either hypertension or diabetes is associated with generalised endothelial damage in the resistance arteries.
Liver lipoxygenase arachidonic acid metabolites in streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.	We have studied the liver 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15-HETE) and leukotriene B4 (LTB4) levels in streptozotocin- (ST)-induced diabetes in rats using liquid chromatography and radioimmunological techniques. Diabetic rats showed significant alterations of liver lipoxygenase metabolites when compared to controls. These 15-HETE and LTB4 increases were concomitant with raised levels of plasma and tissue thromboxane B2 (TXB2) and also urinary 2,3-dinor-TXB2 in plasma and urine, respectively. These changes confirm an activation of 5- and 15-lipoxygenase in the liver 3 days after i.p. ST administration.
Effects of copper deficiency and experimental diabetes on tissue antioxidant enzyme levels in rats.	Male weanling rats were fed diets containing either adequate (6.2 mg/kg) or deficient (0.82 mg/kg) quantities of copper for 35 days. Six rats from each group (n = 12) were then injected with streptozotocin to induce diabetes. Rats were killed after a further 16 days and tissues removed for the analysis of the copper level and antioxidant enzyme activities. Diabetes resulted in increased cardiac catalase, glutathione S-transferase (GST), copper-zinc superoxide dismutase and manganese superoxide dismutase activities. Renal catalase levels were decreased in diabetes, while glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity (G6PDH) was increased. Diabetes significantly decreased the activities of hepatic GST and G6PDH. The combination of diabetes and copper deficiency resulted in increased levels of hepatic GST, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase. Hepatic and renal tissue copper levels were also increased in diabetes, apparently improving copper status in the copper-deficient rats. Alterations of antioxidant enzyme activities in diabetes were suggestive of increased oxidant stress, especially in cardiac tissue.
Washout kinetics of blood cells from the perfused pancreas of normoglycemic and diabetic rats.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate vascular compartments within the rat pancreas with compartmental analysis of the outflow of blood cells from the perfused gland in situ. The presence of two vascular compartments requiring approximately 15 and 30 min for emptying, was noted in normoglycemic rats. The pancreas from diabetic rats, in which the islet beta-cells had been destroyed by intravenous injection of streptozotocin 1 or 6 weeks earlier, demonstrated the same outflow characteristics. It is therefore likely that these observations reflect the presence of two vascular compartments within the rat pancreas, possibly representing the islet-acinar vasculature and the ductal vasculature.
Decreased proliferation of pituitary cells of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats in response to estradiol-17-beta.	Insulin is involved in the proliferation of fibroblasts, hepatocytes and certain other lines of cultured cells. In the present study an attempt was made to clarify the role of insulin in the proliferation of rat pituitary cells. Adult male rats of the Wistar/Tw strain were given intraperitoneal injections of streptozotocin (STZ) at a dose of 32.5 mg/kg. STZ-treated rats developed high blood glucose levels and low serum insulin levels. Proliferation of cells was examined by monitoring the cell uptake of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Estradiol-17 beta (50 micrograms) was given to stimulate the proliferation of pituitary cells. The number of BrdU-containing cells was lower in STZ-treated rats than in controls. The responsiveness to estrogen in terms of cell proliferation was lower in STZ-treated rats than in controls. Treatment of STZ-treated rats with insulin increased the number of BrdU-containing cells and restored the responsiveness to estrogen. Insulin stimulated the proliferation of prolactin-secreting cells and growth hormone-secreting cells in estrogen-treated rats. These results suggest that insulin is necessary for the proliferation of pituitary cells.
meta-iodobenzylguanidine uptake in the hypertensive-diabetic rat heart: a marker for myocardial dysfunction?	The purpose of this study was to investigate the cardiac adrenergic neuronal changes induced by diabetes and hypertension by using an analogue of norepinephrine, meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), and to compare these changes with the contractile state of ventricular papillary muscle. The tissue concentration of norepinephrine in the cardiac apex was also measured for direct comparison with [123I]MIBG uptake. One week following the induction of diabetes by streptozotocin injection (55 mg/kg, i.v.), male Sprague-Dawley rats were given subcutaneous injections of a hypertension-inducing agent, deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA, 25 mg/kg), or DOCA vehicle twice weekly for 3, 6, 9, or 12 weeks. At the end of each time point, the animals were injected intravenously (15 mCi/mg; 1 Ci = 37 GBq) with [123I]MIBG. The results showed a progressive decrease in MIBG uptake into the hearts of diabetic, hypertensive, and diabetic-hypertensive rats during the 12-week observation period, compared with the control group. However, length-tension papillary muscle studies at 12 weeks indicated that only the diabetic group had a diminished performance compared with control. Furthermore, an inverse relationship was observed between MIBG uptake and norepinephrine levels in the cardiac apex of the diabetic and diabetic-hypertensive groups. Therefore, we concluded that either MIBG does not provide an accurate indication of adrenergic integrity or that there is no relationship between sympathetic activity and myocardial function at the time points measured. MIBG did not prove to be a useful marker for myocardial dysfunction in diabetic rats.
Rate-dependent prolongation of action potential duration in single ventricular myocytes obtained from hearts of rats with streptozotocin-induced chronic diabetes sustained for 30-32 weeks.	We examined the characteristics of the action potentials of single ventricular myocytes obtained from the hearts of rats with chronically-induced diabetes. Male Wistar rats were made diabetic by injecting streptozotocin (65 mg/kg) and 30-32 weeks later the hearts were excised and used for an electrophysiological study. Action potentials were recorded from isolated right ventricular myocytes by an electrode fabricated for patch clamp in the whole-cell recording configuration. The action potential durations (APDs) of steady state chronic diabetic rat myocytes were longer than those of age-matched normal rat myocytes at all levels of repolarization (APD25, APD50, APD75, and APD90). As the stimulation frequency was increased (0.2-2 Hz), the APDs were lengthened in both diabetic and normal rats, and the difference of APDs between the groups was greater when the stimulation frequency was higher. When we examined alterations of APDs under conditions of train stimulation (2Hz, 20 stimuli), (1) the APDs in both groups were prolonged, and (2) the degree of prolongation of APD was significantly greater and the rate of APD prolongation was significantly faster in myocytes from the diabetic rats. The prolongation of APD in these heart cells is probably secondary to alteration of the transient outward current Ito, and sheds light on repolarization abnormality in cases of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
In vitro microdialysis of the ovine corpus luteum of pregnancy: effects of insulin-like growth factor on progesterone secretion.	The effects of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and cAMP on progesterone (P) secretion by CL of streptozotocin-induced-diabetic pregnant ewes were compared with the effects on normal pregnant animals. Two types of CL were identified in the ovaries removed on Days 126.6 +/- 2 of pregnancy. They were either large, reddish in color, and vascular (type A) or small and pale yellow (type B). Both types were found in diabetic and normal sheep. Each CL was divided in two and perfused in parallel for 14 h in an in vitro microdialysis-perifusion system. One half was used to evaluate basal P secretion and the effect of cAMP. The effect of IGF-1 and cAMP infusion was studied in the other half. During microdialysis, fractions were collected every 15 min, and P was determined by RIA. IGF-1 stimulated secretion of P in the large type A, normal and diabetic sheep CL in discrete pulses. The smaller CL (type B) from normal sheep produced comparatively higher levels of P in discrete pulses in the presence of IGF-1. However, the small CL from diabetic sheep showed no response to IGF-1 or cAMP, and P secretion was lower. Thus, it is probable that the large CL may be the "active" CL producing P and that IGF-1 stimulates pulsatile P secretion in such CL from both normal and diabetic pregnant sheep.
Thiazolidinediones (AD-4833 and CS-045) improve hepatic insulin resistance in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	To investigate whether thiazolidinediones (AD-4833 and CS-045), new oral antidiabetic agents, are effective in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, the effect of thiazolidinediones on streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats was studied by the glucose clamp technique. Diabetic rats were divided into five groups: (1) intensively insulin treated group given a daily injection of 4-6 units Ultralente insulin, (2) AD-4833 group treated with a daily injection of 2 units Ultralente insulin, the minimal dose to make urinary ketones negative, and ingestion of 10 mg/kg of AD-4833 suspended in 5% gum arabic, (3) gum arabic group treated in the same way as the AD-4833 group except for the active drug, (4) CS-045 group treated with the same insulin injection and ingestion of 200 mg/kg CS-045 suspended in 0.5% chlormethyl cellulose, (5) chlormethyl cellulose group treated as the control for the CS-045 group. Seven days after these treatments, all five groups of diabetic rats and normal control rats were subjected to the glucose clamp study in which 3 mU.kg-1.min-1 porcine insulin was continuously infused. Glucose infusion rates (GIR) for the gum arabic and chlormethyl cellulose groups were significantly lower than in control rats, and the rates of hepatic glucose output (HGO) of these two groups were not suppressed, indicating the presence of hepatic insulin resistance. Intensive insulin treatment as well as administration of AD-4833 and CS-045 with a minimal dose of insulin restored both GIR and HGO towards normal levels. It is concluded that thiazolidinediones improved hepatic insulin resistance in the presence of a minimal dose of insulin.
Inhibitory effect of minocycline on in vitro invasion and experimental metastasis of mouse renal adenocarcinoma.	Degradation of the extracellular matrix by metalloproteinases is a critical phenomenon in cancer invasion and metastasis. Recent studies have revealed that minocycline (minocycline hydrochloride, a tetracycline) suppresses in vivo and in vitro mammalian collagenolytic activity. We investigated whether minocycline inhibited in vitro invasion and experimental pulmonary metastasis in subline-2 of streptozotocin-induced mouse renal adenocarcinoma (MRAC-PM2) cells. In vitro invasion assay demonstrated that treatment with 0.5 microgram/ml or 5.0 micrograms/ml minocycline significantly inhibited the invasion of MRAC-PM2 cells. In addition, intraperitoneal administration of 0.5 mg per mouse minocycline reduced the number of metastatic nodules in the lung when MRAC-PM2 cells were injected intravenously. Minocycline also suppressed type IV collagenolytic activity of the cells. However, the drug did not affect [3H]-thymidine uptake, growth of subcutaneously inoculated cells, attachment to the extracellular matrices, or haptotactic migration of the cells. These results indicated that the inhibitory action of type IV collagen degradation by minocycline can contribute, in part, to suppression of the in vitro invasion and metastatic potential of MRAC-PM2 cells.
Beta-cell function in mice injected with mononuclear splenocytes from multiple-dose streptozotocin diabetic mice.	Multiple low doses of streptozotocin (mid sz 40 mg/kg/day, five consecutive days) induce autoimmune diabetes in mice. The aim of the present work was to study beta-cell function in mice injected with splenocytes from mid-sz diabetic mice. Mononuclear splenocytes (MS) from control or diabetic donors were injected into syngeneic C57BL/6J healthy mice (5 x 10(7) MS, ip). MS from diabetic donors did not produce basal hyperglycemia, but they induced abnormal ip glucose tolerance in recipient mice. These "diabetic" MS were also preferentially trapped by the recipient's pancreas. Perifused pancreas from mice injected with MS from mid sz-diabetic donors showed a diminished first and second phase of glucose-induced insulin secretion after 15 days of the cell injection. At this time, pancreatic insulin content among MS recipients did not differ from that found in controls or diabetic donors. Diabetic MS treated with Mitomycin C prior to transfer did not inhibit insulin secretion in recipient mice. Injection of MS from mice made diabetic by a single high sz dose (200 mg/kg) did not induce any alterations of the insulin secretion in recipients. There is enough evidence when using athymic and euthymic (BALB/c nu/nu and +/nu) mice to suggest that proliferation of the injected splenocytes enhanced the progression to the diabetic state, and that both donor and recipient T lymphocytes played an important part in this progression. The results suggest that injection of MS from mid sz-diabetic mice interfere with glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in recipient mice and provide a basis for the study of the mechanisms involved in the onset and modulation of autoimmune pancreatic aggression.
2'-Hydroxymatteucinol, a new C-methyl flavanone derivative from Matteccia orientalis; potent hypoglycemic activity in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat.	The CHCl3 extract of Matteccia orientalis showed very strong hypoglycemic activity in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. A new C-methyl flavanone derivative, 2'-hydroxymatteucinol (3) was isolated from the hypoglycemic activity bearing fraction, along with two known compounds, demethoxymatteucinol (1) and matteucinol (2). The structures of these isolated compounds were elucidated by spectroscopic methods. One of the compounds isolated from CHCl3 extract, 2'-hydroxymatteucinol (3), showed dose-dependent hypoglycemic activity, and a blood sugar lowering effect was observed even at the dose of 10 mg/kg (p.o.) in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
Phase separation inhibitors and lens transparency.	A phase separation inhibitor, WR77913 [S-3(amino-2-hydroxypropyl) phosphorothioate], was tested for its effects on lens opacification in the radiation (RAD), selenite (SEL), galactose (GAL), streptozotocin (STZ), and Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) models for cataract. A single i.p. injection of WR77913, approximately 15 min before induction of cataract formation by RAD, SEL, STZ delayed or inhibited opacification. Repeated administration was necessary to delay or inhibit opacification in the GAL or RCS models for cataracts. The results suggest that phase separation inhibitors such as WR77913 have the potential to delay or inhibit lens opacification resulting from a variety of physiological or biochemical mechanisms.
Level of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and activity of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase in hepatocyte suspensions in streptozotocin diabetes]	Content of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate was drastically decreased (about 5-fold) in hepatocyte suspension obtained from rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes, as compared with that of control animals. At the same time, activity of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase was increased 2-fold in these hepatocytes. Incubation mixture of the hepatocytes from the diabetes impaired animals contained only low amounts of lactate.
The combined effect of diabetes and ionising radiation on the retinal vasculature of the rat.	The clinical impression that pre-existing diabetes exacerbates radiation injury to the retinal vasculature was studied in STZ diabetic rats. Half of 2 groups of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats and 1 group of normal animals had their right eyes irradiated with 1000 cGy of 90 KVP x-rays. The prevalence of acellular capillaries in trypsin digests of the retinal vasculature was quantified for each of the 6 groups of animals at 6.5 months post-irradiation. The prevalence of acellular capillaries in both non-irradiated diabetic groups was significantly higher than in controls while the irradiated animals in each of the three main categories showed a statistically significant increase compared to their non-irradiated equivalents. However, the net increase in acellular capillaries following irradiation was much greater in rats with an 8 month term of pre-existing diabetes (180%) than in those which had only been diabetic for 3 months (36%). The results of this study suggest a synergistic relationship between pre-existing diabetes and ionising radiation in the development of retinal vasculopathy, and that the potentiation of the vascular damage is dependent on the duration of diabetes prior to radiation exposure.
Aldose reductase inhibition and the phosphorus-31 profile of the intact diabetic rat lens.	Diabetic metabolic change and response to aldose reductase inhibition in the Wistar rat lens were examined with phosphorus-31 (31P) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. To avoid artifacts in sample preparation, we used freshly excised lenses and acquired NMR data for 20 min immediately after lens extraction. The results showed a diabetes-induced time-dependent loss of ATP and phosphorylcholine (PC), an increase in alpha-glycerophosphate (alpha-GP) and inorganic phosphate and the appearance of sorbitol-3-phosphate (S-3-P) and fructose-3-phosphate (F-3-P). Oral but not topical dosing of an aldose reductase inhibitor, 5-(3-ethoxy-4-pentyloxyphenyl)-2,4- thiazolidinedione, resulted in a positive dose-response correlation characterized by a restoration of PC, S-3-P and F-3-P to the prediabetic level; however, alpha-GP and ATP were only partially normalized. The significance of the 31P change was further discussed.
Administration of a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor does not suppress low-dose streptozotocin-induced diabetes in mice.	Nitric oxide (NO) has been reported as being a key mediator of the autoimmune destruction of B-cells in type I diabetes, and studies have described a suppression of low-dose streptozotocin-induced (LDS) diabetes in mice after the use of NO synthase inhibitors. However, these studies disagree with regard to the outcome of hyperglycemia and insulitis after treatment with these L-arginine analogs. The present study tries to clarify this topic by administering N-nitro-L-arginine-methylester (NAME) (15 mg/d/mouse/15 d) after an LDS treatment in 108 male C57BL6/J mice. Glycemia measured at the end of the NAME treatment did show a slight, but significant, reduction when compared to LDS control animals (p < 0.001), but values returned to diabetic levels 2 wk after withdrawal of NAME. Morphological observations demonstrated that the degree of infiltration and islet B-cell damage was absolutely not inhibited by NAME. In conclusion, treatment with L-arginine analogs is not capable of protecting mice from LDS-induced diabetes.
Responses of mouse fast and slow skeletal muscle to streptozotocin diabetes: myosin isoenzymes and phosphorous metabolites.	A condition similar to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) was induced in male CD-1 mice by injection of streptozotocin (STZ). Five weeks after treatment, the fast-twitch extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and slow-twitch soleus (SOL) muscles were isolated for analysis. Phosphorous metabolites were quantified by 31P-NMR and HPLC, native myosin was characterized electrophoretically, and activities of metabolic enzymes were measured spectrophotometrically. Relative to control animals, STZ-diabetes resulted in a significant 32% decrease in the FM1 isoform of myosin in EDL and a 24% decrease in IM myosin of SOL. Mass-specific activities of phosphofructokinase, citrate synthase, and cytochrome oxidase were significantly lower in SOL from STZ-diabetic mice than in controls by 23, 18, and 36%, respectively. Intracellular ATP was significantly lower in SOL from STZ-diabetic mice than in controls (3.44 +/- 0.20 mumol g-1 wet weight vs. 4.61 +/- 0.20 mumol g-1, respectively), as was creatine phosphate (11.98 +/- 0.80 mumol g-1 wet weight vs. 14.22 +/- 0.44 mumol g-1). In contrast to results from SOL, there were no significant changes in phosphorus metabolites or enzyme activity in EDL. These results show that the effects of IDDM on levels of phosphorus containing metabolites and maximal activities of key regulatory enzymes in muscle are markedly fiber-type specific. It is suggested that the muscle type-specific effects of STZ-diabetes may be a consequence of differential accumulation of intracellular fatty acids.
Aminoguanidine prevents the decreased myocardial compliance produced by streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus in rats.	A decreased cardiac compliance is a major feature of the cardiomyopathy of diabetes mellitus. Either an increase in the resistance afterload to the LV or an increase in collagen cross-linking induced by the formation of advanced glycosylation end products (AGEs) of collagen may be responsible for the stiff myocardium. To evaluate these hypotheses, we examined the effect of captopril, an afterload-reducing agent, and aminoguanidine, a nucleophilic hydrazine that prevents the accumulation of collagen AGEs, on left ventricular end-diastolic (LVED) compliance after 4 months of streptozotocin (0.26 mmol/kg)-induced diabetes mellitus in rats.
Loss of ganciclovir sensitivity by exclusion of thymidine kinase gene from transplanted proinsulin-producing fibroblasts as a gene therapy model for diabetes.	To establish a practical method of somatic gene therapy, we aimed to develop a regulatory system at the cellular level using a suicide vector. We introduced the herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) gene into the human proinsulin-producing Ltk-cells and examined whether ganciclovir (GCV) administration could control proinsulin production in vivo. The cells transfected with the HSV-tk gene showed more than 100-fold increase in sensitivity to GCV compared with the parent cells. Analysis of blood glucose in diabetic nude mice with transplanted cells showed that proinsulin production by these cells was strongly suppressed by GCV treatment in vivo as reflected by the reversal to hyperglycemia. However, in the in vivo experiment, the plasmid containing the HSV-tk gene was spontaneously lost from the transplanted cells in one of six cases resulting in the resistance to GCV as reflected by the persistent hypoglycemia and increased tumor size. This system of HSV-tk and administration of GCV may be applicable to gene therapy as a suicide vector, but the system of stable expression of the HSV-tk gene must be established.
Effects of luteolin 5-O-beta-rutinoside in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	We have investigated the antidiabetic activity of luteolin 5-rutinoside in streptozotocin(STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Treatment for 20 days with 2 mg/kg increased both pancreatic insulin and DNA content. When both luteolin 5-rutinoside (2 mg/kg) and glibenclamide (1 mg/kg) were administered concurrently to STZ-diabetic rats, a marked antidiabetic activity was achieved. This effect was evidenced by a significant decrease in glycemia levels (> 50%), a 2.5-fold increase in insulin blood levels and an increase in body and pancreas weight, compared to the diabetic control group.
Contractile responses to various stimuli in isolated resistance vessels from simultaneously hypertensive and streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	Diabetes mellitus and hypertension are common chronic diseases that frequently occur simultaneously. The induction of streptozotocin (STZ) diabetes mellitus in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) offers the opportunity to investigate the influence of both entities in a reproducible manner. We investigated the effects of various vasoconstrictors on isolated small arteries from the mesenteric vascular bed of normotensive rats (Wistar-Kyoto rats, WKY) and SHR with chronic (8 weeks), STZ-induced diabetes mellitus. No consistent changes in hemodynamic parameters of the (STZ-) normotensive and (STZ-) hypertensive rats were noted. The K(+)-normalization procedure yields the individual optimal lumen diameter, which was the same for the arteries of the four groups of rats. The passive wall tension resulting from this normalization procedure was higher only in preparations from the control hypertensive group as compared with those from the control normotensive rats. Morphological investigations showed that small arteries from control SHR had an increased tunica media thickness as compared with those of control WKY; the STZ-WKY had an increased tunica media thickness as compared with preparations from control WKY. The vasoconstriction caused by alpha 1-adrenoceptor stimulation [norepinephrine (NE), methoxamine] and serotonin is unchanged in chronic experimental diabetes. The diabetic state reduced the sensitivity [-log EC50(M)] for the concentration-response curves (CRC) of calcium chloride. The CRC of potassium chloride indicated the same sensitivities, but maximal active wall tensions of vessels from STZ-SHR were reduced as compared with those from STZ-WKY. The well-known enhancement of the effects of various contractile stimuli caused by hypertension could not be demonstrated for the isolated small arteries used in the present study, although a nonsignificant tendency was observed. However, the STZ-diabetic state did not cause important additional pharmacodynamic changes, despite the morphological alterations in those vessels.
Influence of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition by fosinopril on myocardial perfusion in streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	We examined the influence of the new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) fosinopril on function and perfusion of the diabetic rat heart. Streptozotocin-diabetic rats (60 mg/kg body weight) were treated with fosinopril (10 mg/kg body weight/day) for 4 months. Cardiac performance was analyzed in the isolated heart perfused at constant volume. Epicardial perfusion was determined by measuring epicardial fluorescence changes after injection of FITC-dextrane (3 kDa) as described previously. As compared with controls, fosinopril prevented or diminished the increase in end-diastolic pressure (EDP), coronary perfusion pressure (CPP), and vascular resistance in diabetes. The intravascular volume strongly reduced in diabetes was increased, and the epicardial perfusion rate was accelerated in hearts of diabetic rats treated with fosinopril. The vascular exchange diminished in hearts of untreated diabetic rats was enhanced, and the transcapillary permeability was slightly accelerated at low flow rates. These data indicate that treatment of streptozotocin-diabetic rats with fosinopril prevents severe disturbances of coronary autoregulation and at least partly the impairment of cardiac perfusion generally observed in diabetic rats. Together with previously published morphological data demonstrating an inhibition of interstitial and perivascular fibrosis in hearts of diabetic rats with fosinopril, our observations suggest that ACE inhibition by fosinopril is cardioprotective in diabetes.
Involvement of hydrogen peroxide in collagen cross-linking by high glucose in vitro and in vivo.	The Maillard reaction has been implicated in cross-linking and fluorescence formation of collagen exposed to high glucose in vitro. However, several pharmacologic agents, whose action seems unrelated to pathways of nonenzymatic glycation, have been demonstrated to prevent cross-linking in diabetes. To clarify this discrepancy, kinetic changes in glycation, glycoxidation (carboxymethyllysine, CML), and cross-linking (measured as tendon breaking time, TBT) were evaluated in rat tail tendons incubated in 5 and 30 mM glucose in vitro and in tendons implanted in vivo into diabetic rat peritoneal cavity. In vitro, rates were found to be both O2- and glucose-dependent. Tendon preglycation and presence of added 2 mM glycosylamine and Amadori compounds (Amadori product of glucose and propylamine) catalyzed these changes in a primarily O2-dependent manner. In the presence of Amadori compounds, kinetic changes were dramatically increased and were preventable by addition of catalase to the medium. Tendons implanted into diabetic rat peritoneum became more rapidly glycoxidized and cross-linked when implanted at day 30 from diabetes onset (high tissue glycation) compared to day 3 (low tissue glycation) in spite of similar glycation kinetics, suggesting a mechanistic dissociation between glycation, glycoxidation, and cross-linking in diabetes. Indeed, intraperitoneal injection of catalase and other antioxidants dramatically suppressed cross-linking, fluorescence formation, and, to some extent, glycoxidation, without affecting glycation. This study confirms the role of oxidative stress in protein cross-linking by the Maillard reaction in vitro and provides the first evidence for a role of H2O2 in cross-linking in diabetes. Whereas Amadori products are a potent source of H2O2 formation in vitro, their precise contribution to H2O2 generation and the actual role of Maillard reaction products in collagen cross-linking in diabetes requires further investigation.
Beta-cell apoptosis is responsible for the development of IDDM in the multiple low-dose streptozotocin model.	Although insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) results from irreversible loss of beta cells, the mode of cell death responsible for this loss has not previously been categorized. In this study, the multiple low-dose streptozotocin (stz) model (intraperitoneal injection of stz at a concentration of 40 mg/kg body weight per day for five consecutive days) was used to investigate beta-cell death during the development of IDDM in male C57B1/6 mice. Apoptotic cells were evident by light microscopy within the islets of Langerhans of treated animals from day 2 (the day of the second stz injection) until day 17. Immunohistochemical localization of insulin to the dying cells confirmed the beta-cell origin of the apoptosis. Two peaks in the incidence of beta-cell apoptosis occurred: the first at day 5, which corresponded to an increase in blood glucose concentration, and the second at day 11, when lymphocytic infiltration of the islets (insulitis) was maximal. Insulitis did not begin until day 9, by which time treated animals had developed overt diabetes as revealed by blood glucose and pancreatic immunoreactive insulin (IRI) measurements. Beta-cell apoptosis preceded the appearance of T-cells in the islets and continued throughout the period of insulitis. Thus, whether induced by stz or a subsequent immune response, apoptosis is the mode of cell death responsible for beta-cell loss in the multiple low-dose stz model of IDDM.
Effect of Luffa aegyptiaca (seeds) and Carissa edulis (leaves) extracts on blood glucose level of normal and streptozotocin diabetic rats.	The present study investigates the effect of oral administration of the ethanolic extracts of Luffa aegyptiaca (seeds) and Carissa edulis (leaves) on blood glucose levels both in normal and streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic rats. Treatment with both extracts significantly reduced the blood glucose level in STZ diabetic rats during the first three hours of treatment. L. aegyptiaca extract decreased blood glucose level with a potency similar to that of the biguanide, metformin. The total glycaemic areas were 589.61 +/- 45.62 mg/dl/3 h and 660.38 +/- 64.44 mg/dl/3 h for L. aegyptiaca and metformin, respectively, vs. 816.73 +/- 43.21 mg/dl/3 h for the control (P < 0.05). On the other hand, in normal rats, both treatments produced insignificant changes in blood glucose levels compared to glibenclamide treatment.
Proliferation of corneal epithelial cells in diabetic rats]	In order to elucidate the mechanisms of diabetic corneal epitheliopathy, we investigated the proliferation of corneal epithelial cells of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 6th months after the onset of diabetes using 3H-thymidine autoradiography. After the 1st month in diabetic rats, histological examination revealed that corneal epithelial layer was thin, and proliferation of corneal epithelial cells was decreased compared with that of normal untreated rats. After the 2nd month, proliferation of corneal epithelial cells showed no difference from normal rats. After the 3rd month in diabetic rats, the attachment of the epithelial layer to the stroma was loose and proliferation of corneal epithelial cells was increased compared with that of normal untreated rats. After the 6th month, proliferation of corneal epithelial cells showed no difference between diabetic rats and normal rats. We suggest that increased turnover rate of corneal epithelial cells may account for increased proliferation of corneal epithelial cells in diabetic rats during the 3rd month.
Membrane immunoisolation of a diffusion chamber for bioartificial pancreas.	Immunoisolation is a potentially important approach to transplanting islets without any immunosuppressive therapy. The concept of immunoisolation is outlined in systems in which the transplanted tissue is separated from the immune system of the host by an artificial barrier. We previously described a diffusion chamber as a bioartificial endocrine pancreas (Bio-AEP), which was constructed by placing pancreatic endocrine cells, trapped in a mixed matrix, in the center of a ring holder sandwiched between nucleopore membranes, which were shielded by silicone. This experiment was designed to evaluate a suitable pore size for the nucleopore membrane to ensure immunoisolation during xenoimplantation of the Bio-AEP in vitro and in vivo. A nucleopore membrane of pore size 0.1 microm or 0.2 microm was employed as the semipermeable membrane which provided a mechanical barrier between the endocrine pancreas graft and the host immune system. The protective effect of the Bio-AEP from humoral immunity was determined in vitro, using sensitized sheep erythrocytes (EAs). A complement protein did not destroy the cell membranes of the EAs in the diffusion chamber containing the mixed matrix with the nucleopore membrane of 0.1 microm pore size. In an in vivo experiment, 6 streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats were implanted with Bio-AEPs constructed with nucleopore membranes of pore size 0.1 microm and containing MIN6 cells in the mixed matrix. In the STZ diabetic rats with Bio-AEPs, a return to normoglycemia was observed up to 50 weeks after implantation without the use of any immunosuppressant. Also, the body weights of the rats gradually increased. During the observation, when the Bio-AEPs were removed from the STZ diabetic rats, the blood glucose immediately returned to preimplantation levels, and the body weights of the rats also decreased. The membranes of the Bio-AEPs removed from the STZ diabetic rats showed a very thin layer of fibroblastic cells on the outer surfaces. The results indicated that the Bio-AEP, in which pancreatic endocrine cells were trapped in a mixed matrix and with a 0.1 microm pore size membrane, should be useful for xenoimplantation into diabetic animals and may open a new field in the therapy of human diabetics.
Alternations of diacylglycerol kinase in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Dysfunction of organs has been reported in diabetic rats, suggesting an association with changes in intracellular signal transduction pathways including phosphatidylinositol (PI) turnover. Diacylglycerol (DG) kinase catalyses the phosphorylation of DG, which is considered to play a major physiological role in the metabolism of the intracellular messenger DG. However, no relation between DG kinase activity and any disease in mammalian tissue has been reported to date. In the present study, we investigated whether the changes in DG kinase activity are related to diabetes. Basal resting level of DG kinase activity changed in tissue isolated from diabetic rats. Decreases in resting activity detected in aorta and kidney and agonist-induced responses differed between these tissues. Submaximal increases in basal activity also were detected in vas deferens and hepatocytes. These changes in DG kinase activity resemble the functional changes associated with complications of diabetes, suggesting that changes in PI turnover followed by DG kinase activity are a key element in the complications. It is the first study about the changes in DG kinase activity in mammalian disease.
Oxidative stress in diabetic rats induced by streptozotocin: protective effects of melatonin.	We have studied the effect of the administration of two doses of melatonin (melatonin 100 and melatonin 200 microg/kg bw) on diabetes and oxidative stress experimentally induced by the injection of streptozotocin (STZ) in female Wistar rats. STZ was injected as a single dose (60 mg/kg i.p. in buffered citrate solution, pH 4.0) and melatonin (melatonin 100, 100 microg/kg/day i.p.; melatonin 200, 200 microg/kg/day i.p.) beginning 3 days before diabetes induction and continuing until the end of the study (8 weeks). The parameters analysed to evaluate oxidative stress and the diabetic state were a) for oxidative stress, changes of lipoperoxides (i.e., malondialdehyde, MDA) in plasma and erythrocytes and the changes in reduced glutathione (GSH) in erythrocytes and b) for diabetes, changes in glycemia, lipids (triglycerides: TG; total cholesterol: TC; HDL-cholesterol, HDL-c), percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin (Hb%), and plasma fructosamine. The injection of STZ caused significant increases in the levels of glycemia, percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin, fructosamine, cholesterol, triglycerides, and lipoperoxides in plasma and erythrocytes, whereas it decreased the levels of HDL-c and the GSH content in erythrocytes. The melatonin 100 dose reduced significantly all these increases, except the percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin. With regard to the decreases of plasma HDL-c and GSH content in erythrocytes, this melatonin dose returned them to normal levels. The melatonin 200 dose produced similar changes, though the effects were especially noticeable in the decrease of glycemia (55% vs. diabetes), percentage of hemoglobin (P < 0.001 vs diabetes), and fructosamine (31% vs. diabetes). This dose also reversed the decreases of HDL-c and GSH in erythrocytes. Both doses of melatonin caused significant reduction of the percentage of glycosylated hemoglobin in those groups that were non-diabetic. These illustrate the protective effect of melatonin against oxidative stress and the severity of diabetes induced by STZ. In particular, this study confirms two facts: 1) the powerful antioxidant action of this pineal indole and 2) the importance of the severity of oxidative stress to maintain hyperglycemia and protein glycosylation, two pathogenetic cornerstones indicative of diabetic complications. Melatonin reduces remarkably the degree of lipoperoxidation, hyperglycemia, and protein glycosylation, which gives hope to a promising perspective of this product, together with other biological antioxidants, in the treatment of diabetic complications where oxidative stress, either in a high or in a low degree, is present.
Effects of serum of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats on vascular smooth muscle cell growth in vitro.	This study was undertaken to biochemically and immunohistochemically clarify the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), fibroblast growth factor receptor (bFGFR), insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR) and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) growth by using Streptozotocin (STZ) treated rat serum. At 12, 16, 24 weeks after STZ administration, blood sera were collected from STZ treated rats. STZ treated rat sera promoted much more vascular smooth muscle cel proliferation than control sera. IGF-I was increased in the sera of STZ treated rats. Also according to western blot analysis, the protein synthesis of bFGFR and IGF-IR in the VSMCs was increased in STZ treated rat sera. Immunohistochemically, bFGF, IGF-I and their receptors were much more localized in VSMCs in STZ treated rat sera than in control sera. These results suggest that the growth factors and their receptors produced in VSMCs in STZ treated rat serum may contribute to the proliferation of VSMCs in autocrine and paracrine patterns.
The effect of diabetes mellitus on histopathological changes in the tissues under denture base and without mechanical pressure.	Histopathological changes in the tissues under a denture base were studied with respect to the difference between diabetic and normal rats. Diabetes mellitus was induced in Wistar rats by streptozotocin. The experimental denture base was designed to make contact with the palatal mucosa without any continuous nor masticatory pressure. Histopathological observation periods were 1, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 20 weeks after the insertion of the denture base. Histopathological examination revealed that only the transient slight proliferative reaction observed in mucosal epithelium under a denture base in normal non-diabetic rats, was lessened by induced diabetes mellitus. Moreover, covering the palatal mucosa with a denture base without any continuous nor masticatory pressure and with the maintenance of mucosal cleanliness under it and of the denture itself, did not cause any inflammatory change or bone resorption in the tissues under the base.
Kinin B2 receptor-mediated contraction of tail arteries from normal or streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	1. The vasoactive effects of bradykinin (BK) are mediated by different subtypes of kinin receptors, of which the expression varies among different tissues. In rat tail artery tissues, BK elicited a concentration-dependent vasoconstriction (EC50, 25.9+/-2.4nM; Emax, 0.39+/-0.01 g; n=16). This effect of BK was endothelium independent and indomethacin insensitive. The BK-induced contraction of tail artery tissues, however, depended on both membrane potential-sensitive extracellular Ca2+ entry and thapsigargin-sensitive intracellular Ca2+ release. 2. Kinin B1 receptor antagonist or agonist did not affect the basal tension or the BK-induced contraction of tail artery tissues in the absence or presence of endothelium (P>0.05). In contrast, the BK-induced vasoconstriction was inhibited by kinin B2 receptor antagonists. Pretreatment of vascular tissues with Hoe 140 (1 nM) significantly changed EC50 of the BK-induced vasoconstriction from 25.5+/-7.4 nM to 82.6+/-16.8nM (n=8, P<0.01) and Emax from 0.43+/-0.03g to 0.16+/-0.01 g (n=8, P<0.01). 3. In the tail artery tissues from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, the BK-elicited vasoconstriction was significantly reduced (EC50, 67.8+/-11 nM: Emax, 0.19+/-0.01 g) compared to their counterparts from normal rats. The decreased vasoconstrictive effects of BK on diabetic arteries were endothelium independent and indomethacin insensitive. 4. Our study demonstrated that the contraction of rat tail arteries induced by BK was mediated by B2 receptors located on vascular smooth muscles. The altered B2 receptor-mediated vascular activity may play an important role in the vascular complications of diabetes.
A murine model of accelerated periodontal disease in diabetes.	Diabetes is a risk factor for periodontal disease in humans. In hyperglycemia, glycoxidation of proteins and lipids results in the formation of advanced glycation endproducts, or AGEs. The accumulation of AGEs in the plasma and tissues, and their interaction with their cellular receptor for AGE (RAGE), has been implicated in diabetic complications. In order to establish a model with which to delineate the specific host response factors that underlie the development of periodontal disease in diabetes, male C57BL/6J mice were rendered diabetic with streptozotocin. One month after documentation of diabetes or control state, mice were inoculated with the human periodontal pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis, strain 381 (P. gingivalis) or treated with vehicle. Infection with P. gingivalis was achieved, as demonstrated by infiltration of gingival tissue with granulocytes, presence of DNA specific for P. gingivalis as well as increased serum antibody titer to P. gingivalis. At 2 and 3 months after infection, increased alveolar bone loss was demonstrated in P. gingivalis-inoculated diabetic vs. non-diabetic mice, along with enhanced tissue-destructive capacity, as demonstrated by increased collagenolytic activity in gingival extracts. Consistent with an important role for AGE-RAGE interaction, increased AGE deposition and expression of vascular and monocyte RAGE were demonstrated in diabetic gingiva compared with non-diabetic controls. Taken together, these data indicate that we have established a murine model of enhanced periodontal disease in diabetes. This model will serve to delineate molecular mechanisms which account for the increased susceptibility of diabetic patients to periodontal disease.
Single local instillation of Staphylococcus aureus peptidoglycan prevents diabetes-induced impaired wound healing.	Diabetes-induced impaired wound healing is characterized by inhibition of the inflammatory response to wounding, macrophage infiltration, angiogenesis, fibroplasia, reparative collagen accumulation, and wound breaking strength. Because all of these processes are accelerated in normal rats by a single local application at operation of Staphylococcus aureus peptidoglycan, we hypothesized that S. aureus peptidoglycan would prevent diabetes-induced impaired wound healing, despite persistent, untreated hyperglycemia, polydipsia, glycosuria, and polyuria. Sprague- Dawley male rats were divided into two groups. One group received an intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (65 mg/kg) in citrate solution; the other group received an intraperitoneal injection of an equivalent volume of citrate solution. Seventeen days after the injections, the diabetic and control rats received aseptically two 5.5-cm paravertebral incisions and subcutaneous implantation of six polyvinyl alcohol sponges, three on each side. On one side, each sponge contained 0.5 mg S. aureus peptidoglycan in 50 microliter saline solution, and the incision was inoculated along its length with 4.7 mg S. aureus peptidoglycan in 157 microliter saline solution (860 microgram/S. aureus peptidoglycan/cm incision); on the other side, the same respective volumes of saline were used. During the preoperative and postoperative periods, diabetic rats lost a small amount of weight (2%), were hyperglycemic (363 +/- 10 mg/100 ml blood), polydipsic, glycosuric, and polyuric, whereas the controls gained weight (25%) and were normoglycemic (104 +/- 5 mg/100 ml blood); these differences were significantly different (p <.001 in each case). In controls, S. aureus peptidoglycan inoculation increased wound breaking strength (by a factor of 2.0) and hydroxyproline content (by a factor of 1.4; p <.001 in each case); in diabetics, there were significant decreases in wound breaking strength (by a factor of 1.7) and hydroxyproline content (by a factor of 1.3) of saline solution-inoculated incisions and sponges compared with the wound breaking strength and hydroxyproline content of saline solution-inoculated incisions and sponges in controls (p <.02 and p <.001, respectively). These decreases were completely prevented when the incisions and polyvinyl alcohol sponges had been inoculated at operation with S. aureus peptidoglycan; S. aureus peptidoglycan inoculation in the diabetic rats increased wound breaking strength by a factor of 2.2 and sponge reparative tissue hydroxyproline by a factor of 1.6 (p <.001 in each case). Thus, diabetes-induced impaired wound healing was prevented completely by a single local instillation at operation of S. aureus peptidoglycan, despite persistent, untreated hyperglycemia, polydipsia, polyuria, and glycosuria.
Effect of aminoguanidine on erythrocyte lipid peroxidation and activities of antioxidant enzymes in experimental diabetes.	The effect of aminoguanidine (AG) on the malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) in erythrocytes of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes was studied. Induction of diabetes resulted in an increase of MDA concentration and decreases of SOD and catalase activities after 6 and 12 weeks. GSH-Px activity increased after 6 weeks and returned to control values after 12 weeks. AG administration did not affect body weight, blood glucose level and HbA1c content in diabetic rats but led to a decrease of MDA concentration and SOD and catalase activities after 12 weeks of treatment, with no significant effect after 6 weeks. AG attenuated the GSH-Px increase after 6 weeks but augmented the activity of this enzyme after 12 weeks. These results confirm the presence of oxidative stress in streptozotocin-induced experimental diabetes and point to the beneficial antioxidant effect of AG.
The effect of vitamin E on antioxidant tissue activity in pregnant rats with streptozocin-induced diabetes]	The aim of our study was to establish if moderate doses of nonenzymatic antioxidant, vitamin E, could play a role in the antioxidant defence system in pregnant diabetic rats and their offspring. Two models of experimental diabetes were used: the 1st group consisted of 30 female Wistar rats which were given a single dose of streptozotocin (40 mg/kg) and were mated 7 days later, whereas in the 2nd group diabetes was induced on the 7th day of pregnancy (using the same dose of streptozotocin). In each part of the experiment diabetic animals were divided into two equal groups: vitamin E supplemented and fed with standard diet only. Our controls consisted of 20 normal rats. On the 1 day after delivery rats were decapitated and homogenates of maternal liver and uterus as well as neonatal lungs and liver were prepared. Then the following parameters were measured: malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations in the homogenates and blood serum (colorimetric assay), glutathione (GSH) levels (colorimetric test), the activity of CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD) (spectrophotometric method) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) (immunoenzyme technique). Statistical analysis was performed using Mann-Whitney U test. The neonates of diabetic rats were smaller than healthy ones and serum glucose concentration was markedly higher in diabetic animals, especially in model I. MDA levels increased significantly, whereas GSH content and SOD as well as GPx activities were markedly diminished in diabetic pregnant rats and their offspring in comparison with the control group. In animals supplemented with tocopherol MDA concentrations declined significantly, GSH content and SOD activities were markedly elevated in almost all types of tissues studied, whereas glutathione peroxidase remained suppressed.
Interaction of cholecystokinin (CCK-33) and its C-terminal fragments: CCK-8 and CCK-4 with alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists in the cardiovascular system of diabetic rats. Part B.	This study investigated the interaction of cholecystokinin (CCK-33) and its fragments: C-terminal octapeptide (CCK-8) and C-terminal tetrapeptide (CCK-4) with alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists. The effects of this interaction on arterial blood pressure and function of isolated heart were studied in rats with 1-month diabetes mellitus (DM) induced by 1-month administration of streptozocin (STZ). We used CCK-33, CCK-8 and CCK-4 in an equimolar dose of 425.0 pmoles/kg i.v. in in vivo, and 42.5 pmoles/0.1 ml in in vitro experiments. We found that 1) DM diminished the hypertensive effect of noradrenaline (NA) and the hypotensive effects of isoprenaline (ISO), phentolamine (PHENT) and propranolol (PROP). CCK-4 and CCK-8 enhanced but CCK-33 did not change a weaker hypertensive effect of NA while all peptides showed the hypotensive effect of PHENT and did not change the hypotensive effect of ISO and PROP. 2) The influence of NA and PROP on isolated heart of diabetic rats remained unchanged after administration of the peptides but that of ISO and PHENT was diminished. CCK-4 enhanced the effects of NA and PHENT, and diminished the influence of ISO and PROP on isolated heart of diabetic rats. CCK-33 enhanced the cardiac effects of NA, ISO and PROP and did not alter PHENT action. CCK-8 did not change the influence of the studied adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists on isolated heart of diabetic rats. The results of the present study demonstrated that the smallest fragment of CCK-33 (CCK-4) modified the influence of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists on cardiovascular system and altered the direction of disturbances caused by DM. The other peptides (CCK-33, CCK-8) interacted with these receptors to a lesser degree in diabetic subjects.
The augmentation of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP), which was isolated from ovine hypothalamic extract, has been shown to have a physiological role in the regulation of insulin or islet functions. In streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, we examined the content of PACAP immunoreactivity and gene expression of three specific receptors. Four weeks after administration of STZ (50 mg/kg), plasma glucose levels increased 3.3-fold, and plasma insulin levels decreased to one-tenth as compared with the control. The content of PACAP immunoreactivity in the pancreas potently increased by 30%, but the content of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) immunoreactivity was not changed. In the other tissues, the content of PACAP immunoreactivity did not significantly change except in the hypothalamus, which showed a 10% increment. In the expression level of PACAP/VIP receptors, semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that VIP1/PACAP receptor mRNA significantly increased as compared with the other two types of receptors in the pancreas of STZ-induced diabetic rats. These findings suggest that PACAP and VIP1/PACAP receptor might be involved in the pathophysiology of diabetes mellitus.
Increased uncoupling protein-2 and -3 gene expressions in skeletal muscle of STZ-induced diabetic rats.	Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic animals are vulnerable to cold stress. Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) play an important role in regulating thermogenesis. We investigated the gene expressions of UCPs in brown adipose tissue (BAT), white adipose tissue (WAT), liver and gastrocnemius muscle of STZ-diabetic rats using Northern blot. UCP-1, -2 and -3 mRNA expressions in BAT were all remarkably lower in STZ-diabetic rats than those in control rats. Both UCP-2 and -3 gene expressions in gastrocnemius muscle were substantially elevated in STZ-diabetic rats and insulin treatment restored UCP gene expressions to normal levels. These results suggest that in STZ-diabetic rats, the overexpression of UCP-2 and UCP-3 in skeletal muscle provides a defense against hypothermogenesis caused by decreased UCPs in BAT.
