Perivascular-resident macrophage-like melanocytes in the inner ear are essential for the integrity of the intrastrial fluid-blood barrier.	The microenvironment of the cochlea is maintained by the barrier between the systemic circulation and the fluids inside the stria vascularis. However, the mechanisms that control the permeability of the intrastrial fluid-blood barrier remain largely unknown. The barrier comprises endothelial cells connected to each other by tight junctions and an underlying basement membrane. In a recent study, we found that the intrastrial fluid-blood barrier also includes a large number of perivascular cells with both macrophage and melanocyte characteristics. The perivascular-resident macrophage-like melanocytes (PVM/Ms) are in close contact with vessels through cytoplasmic processes. Here we demonstrate that PVM/Ms have an important role in maintaining the integrity of the intrastrial fluid-blood barrier and hearing function. Using a cell culture-based in vitro model and a genetically induced PVM/M-depleted animal model, we show that absence of PVM/Ms increases the permeability of the intrastrial fluid-blood barrier to both low- and high-molecular-weight tracers. The increased permeability is caused by decreased expression of pigment epithelial-derived factor, which regulates expression of several tight junction-associated proteins instrumental to barrier integrity. When tested for endocochlear potential and auditory brainstem response, PVM/M-depleted animals show substantial drop in endocochlear potential with accompanying hearing loss. Our results demonstrate a critical role for PVM/Ms in regulating the permeability of the intrastrial fluid-blood barrier for establishing a normal endocochlear potential hearing threshold.
Nature of the endocochlear dc potential in kanamycin-poisoned guinea pigs.	The endocochlear dc potential (EP) was measured in normal guinea pigs and in a group poisoned with kanamycin sulfate for 60 minutes after the administration of furosemide intravenously (IV) or by perfusion into the scala tympani. The EP decreased rapidly and developed a large negative potential after IV administration of furosemide, but the EP decreased more slowly and did not develop a negative potential in kanamycin-poisoned animals. With perfusion of the scala media, the EP declined slowly and did not develop a large negative potential in either group. With perfusion of the scala tympani, the EP declined slowly in the kanamycin-poisoned animals and did not develop a large negative potential, while in the normal animals the EP declined rapidly and developed a large negative potential.
Living isolated cells from inner ear vessels: a new approach for studying the regulation of cochlear microcirculation and vascular permeability.	The spiral modiolar artery with its proximal branches and the microvessels in the spiral ligament and the stria vascularis were microdissected from the guinea pig cochlea. After incubation with proteolytic and collagenolytic enzymes the mixed cell suspension was fractionated by gradient centrifugation. The cells migrated according to their buoyant densities into the fractions of 1.04 g/ml (endothelial cells), 1.06 g/ml (vascular smooth muscle cells obtained from the spiral modiolar artery; strial pericytes) and 1.08 g/ml (pericytes obtained from the spiral ligament). To test for viability cells were loaded with a fluorescent vital stain (BCECF-AM); for identification, cell-specific stains were used. Identity of endothelial cells (ECs) was confirmed using acetylated low density lipoprotein fluorescently labeled with dioctadecyl-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI-Ac-LDL). Pericytes were identified immunofluorescently using the method according to Nayak et al. (1988). Vascular smooth muscle cells were stained for F-actin with rhodamin-phalloidin. This in vitro technique may open new approaches to study local factors involved in microcirculation and vessel permeability of various cochlear vascular beds.
