Plasticity of the human motor cortex and recovery from stroke.	By a variety of mechanisms, the human brain is constantly undergoing plastic changes. Plasticity can be studied with phenomena such as peripheral deafferentation and motor learning. Spontaneous recovery from stroke in the chronic stage likely comes about because of plasticity, and the best recovery seems to result from reorganization in the damaged hemisphere. Knowledge about the physiology of brain plasticity has led to the development of new techniques for rehabilitation.
Early TNF-alpha levels correlate with ischaemic stroke severity.	The study aimed to evaluate the levels of an important proinflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum in acute stroke and to study the relation between those and the neurological stroke severity and functional disability.
Overexpression of HSP72 after induction of experimental stroke protects neurons from ischemic damage.	The 72-kD inducible heat shock protein (HSP72) can attenuate cerebral ischemic injury when overexpressed before ischemia onset. Whether HSP72 overexpression is protective when applied after ischemia onset is not known, but would have important clinical implications. Fifty-seven rats underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion for 1 hour. Defective herpes simplex viral (HSV) vectors expressing hsp72 with lacZ as a reporter were delivered 0.5, 2, and 5 hours after ischemia onset into each striatum. Control animals received an identical vector containing only lacZ. Striatal neuron survival at 2 days was improved by 23% and 15% when HSP72 vectors were delayed 0.5 and 2 hours after ischemic onset, respectively ( P < 0.05). However, when delayed by 5 hours, HSP72 overexpression was no longer protective. This is the first demonstration that HSP72 gene transfer even after ischemia onset is neuroprotective. Because expression from these HSV vectors begins 4 to 6 hours after injection, this suggests that the temporal therapeutic window for HSP72 is at least 6 hours after ischemia onset. Future strategies aimed at enhancing HSP72 expression after clinical stroke may be worth pursuing. The authors suggest that in the future HSP72 may be an effective treatment for stroke.
A diffusion-weighted MRI study of acute ischemic distal arm paresis.	To study the site of the ischemic lesion, the underlying cause, and the prognosis of acute stroke with distal arm paresis.
Diffusion-perfusion MR evaluation of perihematomal injury in hyperacute intracerebral hemorrhage.	It has been suggested that a zone of perihematomal ischemia analogous to an ischemic penumbra exists in patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Diffusion-perfusion MRI provides a novel means of assessing injury in perihematomal regions in patients with ICH.
Improved understanding of cortical injury by incorporating measures of functional anatomy.	Volume of injury is often used to describe a brain insult. However, this approach assumes cortical equivalency and ignores the special importance that certain cortical regions have in the generation of behaviour. We hypothesized that incorporating knowledge of normal brain functional anatomy into the description of a motor cortex injury would provide an improved framework for understanding consequent behavioural effects. Anatomical scanning was performed in 21 patients with a chronic cortical stroke that involved the sensorimotor cortex. Functional MRI (fMRI) was used to generate separate average activation maps for four tasks including hand, shoulder and face motor tasks in 14 controls. For each task, group average maps for contralateral sensorimotor cortex activation were generated. Injury to these maps was measured by superimposing each patient's infarct. These measurements were then correlated with behavioural assessments. In bivariate analyses, injury to fMRI maps correlated with behavioural assessments more strongly than total infarct volume. For example, performance on the Purdue pegboard test by the stroke-affected hand correlated with the fraction of hand motor map injured (r = -0.79) more strongly than with infarct volume (r = -0.60). In multiple linear regression analyses, measures of functional map injury, but not infarct volume, remained as significant explanatory variables for behavioural assessments. Injury to >37% of the hand motor map was associated with total loss of hand motor function. Hand and shoulder motor maps showed considerable spatial overlap (63%) and similar behavioural consequences of injury to each map, while hand and face motor maps showed limited overlap (10.4%) and disparate behavioural consequences of injury to each map. Lesion effects support current models of broad, rather than focal, sensorimotor cortex somatotopic representation. In the current cross-sectional study, incorporating an understanding of normal tissue function into lesion measurement provided improved insights into the behavioural consequences of focal brain injury.
Functional imaging in the assessment of capability for recovery after stroke.	After an ischaemic lesion preserved components of a functional network are utilized for recovery from neurological defects. The hierarchy of the individual parts within the damaged network, however, determines the quality of the outcome. This could be clearly demonstrated for the complex network of language ability, for which the left temporal region plays an integrative role: only if the left temporal regions are morphologically preserved and can be reactivated in imaging studies of speech performance was the outcome of poststroke aphasia satisfying. In brain functions with a less pronounced hemispheric specialization the effect of disturbed centres in the dominant hemisphere might be less accentuated. Functional neuroimaging studies might help to estimate prognoses of functional outcome in early states after stroke and to evaluate the efficiency of strategies of rehabilitative measures and of adjuvant drug therapy.
Anterograde delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor to striatum via nigral transduction of recombinant adeno-associated virus increases neuronal death but promotes neurogenic response following stroke.	To explore the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor for survival and generation of striatal neurons after stroke, recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors carrying brain-derived neurotrophic factor or green fluorescent protein genes were injected into right rat substantia nigra 4-5 weeks prior to 30 min ipsilateral of middle cerebral artery occlusion. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor-recombinant adeno-associated viral transduction markedly increased the production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor protein by nigral cells. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor was transported anterogradely to the striatum and released in biologically active form, as revealed by the hypertrophic response of striatal neuropeptide Y-positive interneurons. Animals transduced with brain-derived neurotrophic factor-recombinant adeno-associated virus also exhibited abnormalities in body posture and movements, including tilted body to the right, choreiform movements of left forelimb and head, and spontaneous, so-called 'barrel' rotation along their long axis. The continuous delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor had no effect on the survival of striatal projection neurons after stroke, but exaggerated the loss of cholinergic, and parvalbumin- and neuropeptide Y-positive, gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic interneurons. The high brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in the animals subjected to stroke also gave rise to an increased number of striatal cells expressing doublecortin, a marker for migrating neuroblasts, and cells double-labelled with the mitotic marker, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'monophosphate, and early neuronal (Hu) or striatal neuronal (Meis2) markers. Our findings indicate that long-term anterograde delivery of high levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor increases the vulnerability of striatal interneurons to stroke-induced damage. Concomitantly, brain-derived neurotrophic factor potentiates the stroke-induced neurogenic response, at least at early stages.
Host-dependent tumorigenesis of embryonic stem cell transplantation in experimental stroke.	The therapeutical potential of transplantation of undifferentiated and predifferentiated murine embryonic stem cells for the regeneration of the injured brain was investigated in two rodent stroke models. Undifferentiated embryonic stem cells xenotransplanted into the rat brain at the hemisphere opposite to the ischemic injury migrated along the corpus callosum towards the damaged tissue and differentiated into neurons in the border zone of the lesion. In the homologous mouse brain, the same murine embryonic stem cells did not migrate, but produced highly malignant teratocarcinomas at the site of implantation, independent of whether they were predifferentiated in vitro to neural progenitor cells. The authors demonstrated a hitherto unrecognized inverse outcome after xenotransplantation and homologous transplantation of embryonic stem cells, which raises concerns about safety provisions when the therapeutical potential of human embryonic stem cells is tested in preclinical animal models.
Accelerated glial reactivity to stroke in aged rats correlates with reduced functional recovery.	Following cerebral ischemia, perilesional astrocytes and activated microglia form a glial scar that hinders the genesis of new axons and blood vessels in the infarcted region. Since glial reactivity is chronically augmented in the normal aging brain, the authors hypothesized that postischemic gliosis would be temporally abnormal in aged rats compared to young rats. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by reversible occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery in 3- and 20-month-old male Sprague Dawley rats. The functional outcome was assessed in neurobehavioral tests at 3, 7, 14, and 28 days after surgery. Brain tissue was immunostained for microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and endothelial cells. Behaviorally, aged rats were more severely impaired by stroke and showed diminished functional recovery compared with young rats. Histologically, a gradual activation of both microglia and astrocytes that peaked by days 14 to 28 with the formation of a glial scar was observed in young rats, whereas aged rats showed an accelerated astrocytic and microglial reaction that peaked during the first week after stroke. Oligodendrocytes were strongly activated at early stages of infarct development in all rats, but this activation persisted in aged rats. Therefore, the development of the glial scar was abnormally accelerated in aged rats and coincided with the stagnation of recovery in these animals. These results suggest that a temporally anomalous gliotic reaction to cerebral ischemia in aged rats leads to the premature formation of scar tissue that impedes functional recovery after stroke.
Behavioural recovery correlated with MRI in a rat experimental stroke model.	To characterize a necrotic lesion using MRI and motor recovery using behavioural methods.
Imaging the ischemic penumbra with 18F-fluoromisonidazole in a rat model of ischemic stroke.	The ischemic penumbra is a major focus of stroke research. 18F-fluoromisonidazole (18F-FMISO), a positron emission tomography (PET) marker of hypoxic cells, has shown promise as a technique to image the penumbra in humans. Our aim was to delineate the pattern of 18F-FMISO binding in a rat middle cerebral artery transient thread-occlusion model, and correlate this with tissue outcome at 24 hours. We hypothesized that the pattern of 18F-FMISO binding would mimic that seen in humans.
Plasticity in the human cerebral cortex: lessons from the normal brain and from stroke.	The adult brain maintains the ability for reorganization or plasticity throughout life. Results from neurophysiological and neuroanatomical experiments in animals and noninvasive neuroimaging and electrophysiological studies in humans show considerable plasticity of motor representations with use or nonuse, skill learning, or injury to the nervous system. An important concept of reorganization in the motor cortex is that of a distributed neuronal network in which multiple overlapping motor representations are functionally connected through an extensive horizontal network. By changing the strength of horizontal connections between motor neurons, functionally different neuronal assemblies can form, thereby providing a substrate to construct dynamic motor output zones. Modulation of inhibition and synaptic efficacy are mechanisms involved. Recent evidence from animal experiments indicates that these functional changes are accompanied by anatomical changes. Because plasticity of the brain plays a major role in the recovery of function after stroke, the knowledge of the principles of plasticity may help to design strategies to enhance plasticity when it is beneficial, such as after brain infarction.
Delayed shrinkage of the brain after ischemic stroke: preliminary observations with voxel-guided morphometry.	The most important effect of cerebral ischemia is brain infarction. In this magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study, the authors aimed at assessing postischemic brain atrophy.
Influenza A-associated stroke in a 4-year-old male.	This case describes an ischemic stroke in a 4-year-old male associated with acute influenza A infection during the December 2003 nationwide influenza epidemic in the United States. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an association between influenza A and stroke in children.
Reliability of data of death causes: comparison of premortem and verified by autopsy postmortem diagnoses]	The goal of the investigation was to evaluate the accuracy of medical diagnostics of death causes.
Gliosis and brain remodeling after treatment of stroke in rats with marrow stromal cells.	The long-term (4-month) responses to treatment of stroke in the older adult rat, using rat bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs), have not been investigated. Retired breeder rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) alone, or injected intravenously with 3 x 10(6) MSCs, at 7 days after MCAo. Functional recovery was measured using an adhesive-removal patch test and a modified neurological severity score. Bromodeoxyuridine, a cell proliferation marker, was injected daily for 14 before sacrifice. Animals were sacrificed 4 months after stroke. Double immunostaining was used to identify cell proliferation and cell types for axons, astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes. MSC treatment induced significant improvement in neurological outcome after MCAo compared with control rats. MSC treatment reduced the thickness of the scar wall (P < 0.05) and reduced the numbers of microglia/macrophages within the scar wall (P < 0.01). Double staining showed increased expression of an axonal marker (GAP-43), among reactive astrocytes in the scar boundary zone and in the subventricular zone in the treated rats. Bromodeoxyuridine in cells preferentially colocalized with markers of astrocytes (GFAP) and oligodendrocytes (RIP) in the ipsilateral hemisphere, and gliogenesis was enhanced in the subventricular zone of the rats treated with MSCs. This is the first report to show that MSCs injected at 7 days after stroke improve long-term neurological outcome in older animals. Brain tissue repair is an ongoing process with reactive gliosis, which persists for at least 4 months after stroke. Reactive astrocytes responding to MSC treatment of ischemia may also promote axonal regeneration during long-term recovery.
The development of a scale to evaluate the quality of life in stroke survivors]	The selection of a measure that can be used to evaluate the outcome of therapeutic interventions in stroke patients has had a conceptual problem in that there is a need to detect a wide range of deficiencies, disabilities and handicaps as part of a patient-based model. It has also suffered from a methodological problem due to the lack of systematic attention given to the development of standard instruments.
Impairment in cognitive and affective empathy in patients with brain lesions: anatomical and cognitive correlates.	The present study was designed to examine the degree of impairment in cognitive and affective empathy among patients with focal brain lesions, and the contribution of specific cognitive abilities (such as cognitive flexibility and processing of emotional information), to empathy. The cognitive and affective empathic response of patients with localized prefrontal lesions (n=36) was compared to responses of patients with parietal lesions (n=15) and healthy control subjects (n=19). Results indicate that patients with prefrontal lesions (especially those with lesions involving the orbitoprefrontal and medial regions) were significantly impaired in both cognitive and affective empathy as compared to parietal patients and healthy controls. When the damage was restricted to the prefrontal cortex, either left- or right-hemisphere lesions resulted in impaired empathy. However, when the lesion involved the right hemisphere, patients with parietal lesions were also impaired. The pattern of relationships between cognitive performance and empathy suggested dissociation between the cognitive correlates of affective and cognitive empathy.
Specific scales for rating quality of life after stroke]	The purpose of this study was to survey the different specific scales used for measuring the quality of life after a stroke and to compare their sensitivity with that of the traditional generic instruments.
Hyperacute imaging of ischemic stroke: role in therapeutic management.	Ischemic stroke remains a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Current therapeutic options for acute ischemic stroke include intravenous thrombolysis and endovascular approaches for recanalization of proximal arterial occlusion. The rapid identification of underlying stroke etiology or mechanism may facilitate selection criteria for emergent therapy. Hyperacute imaging plays an integral role in the delineation of stroke pathophysiology and the formulation of rational stroke therapy. Hyperacute imaging of ischemic stroke may demonstrate proximal vascular occlusion, compensatory collateral circulation, residual or collateral tissue perfusion, and the differentiation of ischemic core from penumbral regions. Characterization of the ischemic field, including core and penumbra, with various mismatch models on multimodal computed tomography or MRI may refine current therapeutic strategies for cerebral ischemia. The diagnostic and therapeutic role of hyperacute imaging has emerged as a pivotal component in the evaluation and management of ischemic stroke.
Bed-side assessment of cerebral perfusion in stroke patients based on optical monitoring of a dye bolus by time-resolved diffuse reflectance.	We present a minimally invasive optical method, that is, multi-channel time-domain diffuse near-infrared reflectometry of the head to assess cerebral blood perfusion that is applicable at the bed-side and repetitively at short intervals. Following intravenous injection of an ICG bolus, its transit through intra- and extracerebral tissue is monitored based on changes in moments of distributions of times of flight of photons, recorded with a 4-channel instrument simultaneously on both hemispheres. In healthy volunteers, we found that variance of distributions of times of flight of photons is well suited to assess latency and initial slope of the increase in absorption of intracerebral tissue due to the bolus. We successfully applied our method in two patients demonstrating a reversible cerebral perfusion deficit in an ischemic stroke patient who was treated by thrombolysis and in another patient with a permanent impaired unilateral perfusion due to ipsilateral internal carotid artery occlusion. In either case, we observed a difference in bolus transit time between the hemispheres. In the stroke patient, this difference resolved when re-evaluated 1 day after thrombolysis. The study demonstrates the necessity of a technique with sub-nanosecond time resolution to allow for depth discrimination if clinical perfusion monitoring of cerebrovascular diseases is addressed by optical methods.
Spatial working memory capacity in unilateral neglect.	It has been proposed recently that a deficit in keeping track of spatial locations may contribute to the severity of unilateral neglect in some right hemisphere stroke patients. However, performance on traditional spatial working memory (SWM) tasks (e.g. Corsi blocks) might be confounded by failure to encode leftward locations, rather than a true deficit of maintaining locations in SWM. Here we introduced new procedures for circumventing this to measure SWM capacity in neglect. In a first experiment, 20 right hemisphere stroke patients (10 with and 10 without neglect) were tested on a computerized vertical variant of the Corsi task. Sequences of spatial locations in a vertical column were displayed and participants had to tap out the remembered sequence on a touchscreen. Patients with left neglect were impaired on this vertical SWM task compared with all control groups. However, poor performance on this task (as for Corsi blocks) might involve impaired memory for stimulus sequence, or poor visuomotor control of manual responding, rather than reduced SWM capacity per se. A second experiment therefore employed a purer measure of vertical SWM. After the displayed sequence, a single location was now probed visually, with observers judging verbally (yes/no) if it had been in the preceding sequence. Hence order no longer mattered, and no spatial motor response was required. Again, the neglect group was impaired relative to all others, now with very little overlap between the performances of individual neglect patients versus individuals in control groups. Poor performance on the second task, which provides a purer measure of SWM capacity, correlated with severity of left neglect on cancellation tasks (but not on line bisection), consistent with recent proposals that SWM deficits can exacerbate left neglect on visual search tasks when present conjointly. Lesion anatomy indicated that neglect patients with a SWM deficit were most likely to have damage to parietal white matter, plus, in the second experiment, to the insula also. These findings demonstrate that an impairment in SWM capacity can contribute to the neglect syndrome in patients with stroke involving regions within the right parietal lobe and insula.
Time course and sequence of pathological changes in the cerebellum of microsphere-embolized rats.	Ischemia is a major cause of damage to the central nervous system as a consequence of stroke or trauma. Here, we analyzed with high temporal resolution the time course of pathological changes in the neurons (granule and Purkinje cells) and glia (Bergmann and astroglia cells) in the cerebellar cortex and white matter. The period studied ranged from 30 min to 7 days after a microsphere-induced embolism used as a model of stroke and multi-infarct dementia. Some pathological changes in the neurons in the cerebellar cortex were identified early, that is, beginning at 3 h after the microsphere-induced embolism, and glial pathology appeared only later. The pathological changes in the white matter also appeared slightly later, that is, 6 h after embolism and were less pronounced than those in the cerebellar cortex. This suggests that neuronal pathology is induced more rapidly and/or more easily than the glial pathology. In addition, BrdU staining shows that cell proliferation is limited to a 1-day period beginning about 1 day after the embolism. These data demonstrate that changes after an ischemic lesion of the cerebellum proceeds from upper cerebellar cortex to deeper cerebellar cortex or white matter and also that microsphere-induced changes proceed from neuronal to glial pathology.
Ischaemic stroke in young adults: predictors of outcome and recurrence.	There is limited information about predictors of outcome and recurrence of ischaemic stroke affecting young adults.
Public awareness of warning symptoms, risk factors, and treatment of stroke in northwest India.	This study assessed public awareness of warning symptoms, risk factors, and treatment of stroke in Ludhiana, Punjab, North West India.
Motor impairment and recovery in the upper limb after stroke: behavioral and neuroanatomical correlates.	Motor recovery after stroke is associated with cerebral reorganization. However, few studies have investigated the relationship directly, and findings are equivocal. We therefore aimed to characterize the relationship between motor impairment, motor recovery, and task-related changes in regional cerebral blood flow (DeltarCBF) longitudinally.
Depression among caregivers of stroke survivors.	We aimed to assess the prevalence of depressive symptoms among caregivers of stroke survivors and to determine which patient- or stroke-related factors are associated with and can be used to predict caregiver depression during an 18-month follow-up after stroke.
Laterality of motor control revisited: directionality of callosal traffic and its rehabilitative implications.	Based on evidence derived from personal data and a comprehensive review of the literature, this article provides a perspective of laterality of motor control in humans. The evidence supports existence of directionality in callosal traffic, codified in handedness. However, it is the neural handedness that definitively reveals the directionality of signal traffic between the executive and the minor hemisphere; the minor hemisphere is devoted to the affairs occurring on or toward the nondominant side of the body. Thus, moving the nondominant side of the body (and sensing from it) are bi-hemispherical events that require callosal participation. Time-resolved data are provided that indicate the absence of any ipsilateral corticospinal tract innervation in humans. The rehabilitative aspects of the new circuitry (i.e., one-way callosal traffic scheme) is reviewed, establishing that previously described plasticity or reorganization of cortical structure was a reflection of the newly described anatomy underpinning handedness. The distinction between neural and behavioral handedness is emphasized, suggesting simple and robust ways to establish a person's handedness without resorting to invasive and inconclusive tests currently in vogue. In the past, lack of knowledge of directionality in callosal traffic has resulted in surgical removal of healthy hemispheres (including the major hemisphere) in futile attempts to stop epilepsy in those with an intractable condition. Evidence is provided for lack of any motor communication from the minor to the major hemisphere, which makes the minor hemisphere incapable of initiating and propagating seizures.
Neuroimaging determinants of cognitive performances in stroke associated with small vessel disease.	Controversies still exist as to the neuroimaging determinants of cognitive impairment in cerebral small vessel disease (SVD). The authors studied the neuroimaging correlates of cognitive performances among patients with stroke associated with SVD.
Enriched environment increases neural stem/progenitor cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the subventricular zone of stroke-lesioned adult rats.	The subventricular zone in the adult brain is identified as an endogenous resource of neuronal precursors that can be recruited to adjacent lesioned areas. The hypothesis was tested that postischemic environmental enrichment might enhance subventricular zone cell genesis.
Regional impairment of cerebrovascular reactivity and BOLD signal in adults after stroke.	Comparative studies across populations using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) rely on a similar relationship between blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal and neural activity. However, in elderly and patients with cerebrovascular disease, impaired cerebrovascular dynamics and neurovascular coupling may explain differences in BOLD contrast across populations and brain regions. The purpose of the study was to determine whether poststroke patients have regional heterogeneities of cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) and their potential influence on voxel-wise motor-related BOLD signal.
Use of quantitative magnetic resonance angiography to stratify stroke risk in symptomatic vertebrobasilar disease.	Symptomatic vertebrobasilar disease (VBD) carries a high risk of recurrent stroke. We sought to determine whether a management algorithm consisting of quantitative hemodynamic assessment could stratify stroke risk and guide the need for intervention.
Isotropic diffusion weighting in radial fast spin-echo magnetic resonance imaging.	Radial fast spin-echo (radial-FSE) methods enable multishot diffusion-weighted MRI (DWMRI) to be carried out without significant artifacts due to motion and/or susceptibility and can be used to generate DWMRI images with high spatial resolution. In this work, a novel method that allows isotropic diffusion weighting to be obtained in a single radial k-space data set is presented. This is accomplished by altering the direction of diffusion weighting gradients between groups of TR periods, which yield sets of radial lines that possess diffusion weighting sensitive to motion in different directions. By altering the diffusion weighting directions and controlling the view ordering appropriately within the sequence, an effectively isotropic diffusion-weighted image can be obtained within one radial-FSE scan. The order in which radial lines are acquired can also be controlled to yield data sets without significant artifacts due to motion, T(2) decay, and/or diffusion anisotropy.
Multiexponential T2-relaxation analysis in cerebrally damaged rats in the absence and presence of a gadolinium contrast agent.	An analysis of the multiexponential relaxation of transverse nuclear magnetization with and without a gadolinium-based paramagnetic contrast agent in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats (SHR-SP) and in the rat model of ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion is described. From the multiexponential relaxation, the presence of two T(2) relaxation times in the range of 0.03-0.5 s, T(2A) (shortest) and T(2B) (longest), with very different relative weights (respectively, A and B), is evidenced. In our models of cerebral damage, the changes in A and B were more evident than those in T(2A) and T(2B). The two T(2) values were interpreted as belonging to water molecules in two different compartments; therefore, the difference between the damaged and normal regions revealed by means of standard T(2)-weighted images is suggested to be due to a different water distribution in the two compartments, rather than different T(2)'s. The T(2) relaxation in the SHR-SP stroke model is analyzed for the first time using a multiexponential method. The power of a detailed analysis of MRI relaxation times is confirmed by the correspondence between the revealed changes in T(2A), T(2B), A and B, and the known T(2)W and DWI results about blood-brain barrier functionality.
Radial GRASE: implementation and applications.	RAD-GRASE is an MRI sequence that combines radial (RAD) k-space scanning with the gradient and spin-echo (GRASE) technique. RAD-GRASE has the advantages of all radial data acquisition methods in that it can reduce motion sensitivity and correct motion-induced data errors, which can be exploited to achieve high-resolution diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). One can obtain different types of image contrast, including DWI, T(1), T(2), and T(2)*, in RAD-GRASE by controlling the magnetization preparation and sequence timing. Moreover, because there is oversampling of the low spatial frequencies inherent to radial sequences, partial data reconstruction can be used to achieve multiple forms of image contrast from a single acquired data set, and to generate parametric image maps of equilibrium magnetization, T(2), and T(2) (dagger). The RAD-GRASE technique can also be used to achieve fat-suppressed and/or separated fat and water images by choosing the appropriate timing parameters.
Characterization of a rat model to study acute neuroinflammation on histopathological, biochemical and functional outcomes.	Neuroinflammation is one of the events occurring after acute brain injuries. The aim of the present report was to characterize a rat model to study acute neuroinflammation on the histopathological, biochemical and functional outcomes. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), known as a strong immunostimulant, was directly injected into the hippocampus. The spatiotemporal evolution of inducible NOS (iNOS) and cell death was studied from 6 h to 7 days. A perfect time course correlation was observed between iNOS immunoreactivity and iNOS activity showing an acute, expansive and transient iNOS induction in the hippocampus with a peak at 24 h. It was associated with a marked increase in NO metabolite (NO(x)) levels, and a high level of myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. This inflammation precedes a massive cellular loss including at least neurons and astrocytes, and a drop of constitutive NOS activity, restrictive to the ipsilateral hippocampus from 48 h after LPS injection. Moreover, sensorimotor function impairment occurred from 24 h to 7 days with a maximum at 24 h post-LPS injection. Therefore, we characterized an in vivo model of acute neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration, in relation with a neurological deficit, which may be a powerful tool for mechanistic studies and for further evaluation of the potential neuroprotective agents.
High-resolution ultrahigh-field MRI of stroke.	Ultrahigh-field MRI at 8 T offers unprecedented resolution for imaging brain structures and microvasculature.
Arm function after stroke: neurophysiological correlates and recovery mechanisms assessed by transcranial magnetic stimulation.	Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation has been used for over 20 years to investigate recovery of motor function in stroke patients. In particular, it has been used to quantify the extent of damage to the corticospinal output, reorganisation of the cortical representation of the affected body parts and excitability of intracortical and cortico-cortical circuitries in both hemispheres. In this review, we provide a detailed account of most of the published data with particular reference to methodological issues that affect their interpretation.
Therapeutic benefit of bone marrow stromal cells administered 1 month after stroke.	Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) facilitate functional recovery in rats after stroke when administered acutely (1 day) or subacutely (7 days). In this study, we postponed the time of cell transplantation to 1 month after stroke. Female retired breeder rats were subjected to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Male BMSCs (3 x 10(6)) or phosphate-buffered saline were administered intravenously, and the animals were killed 3 months later. An additional population of nontreated rats was killed at 1 month after MCAo. Significant recovery of behavior was found in BMSC-treated rats beginning at 1 month after cell injection in the modified neurologic severity score test and the adhesive-removal test compared with control animals (P<0.05). In situ hybridization showed that BMSCs survived and preferentially localized to the ipsilateral hemisphere. Double staining revealed that approximately 13% and 6% Y-chromosome-positive cells expressed the astrocyte marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and the neuronal marker, microtubule-associated protein-2, respectively. In addition, BMSC treatment reduced scar thickness, and increased the number of proliferating cells and oligodendrocyte precursor cells along the subventricular zone in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Expression of the chemokine stromal-cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) was significantly increased along the ischemic boundary zone compared with the corresponding areas in the contralateral hemisphere at 1 month and 4 months (P<0.01) after stroke. The SDF-1 receptor, CXC-chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR4), was expressed in BMSCs both in vitro and in vivo. Our data show that the time window of BMSC therapy is at least 1 month after stroke; the interaction of SDF-1/CXCR4 may contribute to the trafficking of transplanted BMSCs.
Infarct prediction and treatment assessment with MRI-based algorithms in experimental stroke models.	There is increasing interest in using algorithms combining multiple magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) modalities to predict tissue infarction in acute human stroke. We developed and tested a voxel-based generalized linear model (GLM) algorithm to predict tissue infarction in an animal stroke model in order to directly compare predicted outcome with the tissue's histologic outcome, and to evaluate the potential for assessing therapeutic efficacy using these multiparametric algorithms. With acute MRI acquired after unilateral embolic stroke in rats (n=8), a GLM was developed and used to predict infarction on a voxel-wise basis for saline (n=6) and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) treatment (n=7) arms of a trial of delayed thrombolytic therapy in rats. Pretreatment predicted outcome compared with post-treatment histology was highly accurate in saline-treated rats (0.92+/-0.05). Accuracy was significantly reduced (P=0.04) in rt-PA-treated animals (0.86+/-0.08), although no significant difference was detected when comparing histologic lesion volumes. Animals that reperfused had significantly lower (P<0.01) GLM-predicted infarction risk (0.73+/-0.03) than nonreperfused animals (0.81+/-0.05), possibly reflecting less severe initial ischemic injury and therefore tissue likely more amenable to therapy. Our results show that acute MRI-based algorithms can predict tissue infarction with high accuracy in animals not receiving thrombolytic therapy. Furthermore, alterations in disease progression due to treatment were more sensitively monitored with our voxel-based analysis techniques than with volumetric approaches. Our study shows that predictive algorithms are promising metrics for diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic evaluation after acute stroke that can translate readily from preclinical to clinical settings.
In vivo imaging of apoptosis in patients with acute stroke: correlation with blood-brain barrier permeability.	We wished to determine the ability of radiolabeled annexin V to concentrate at sites of ischemic injury in patients with acute cerebral stroke. Secondly, we sought to correlate annexin V imaging in these patients with the degree of blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown.
Current issues in the treatment of acute posterior circulation stroke.	This article presents a narrative review of the non-medical, medical and endovascular aspects of the management of acute ischaemic stroke in the posterior circulation, a potentially devastating condition with high mortality and substantial disability in many of those who survive. Optimal management requires a combination of supportive measures and specific interventions and is best delivered within a high-dependency or intensive care environment. Non-medical measures include management of physiological parameters, respiratory support where necessary and prompt treatment of complications such as the development of hydrocephalus. Deterioration in conscious state and progression of symptoms may occur some time after initial presentation and after admission to hospital; when such progression is detected, very rapid therapeutic reperfusion may be feasible. Reperfusion strategies include intravenous and intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) and mechanical methods to aid reperfusion, including the use of mechanical clot disruption, clot retrieval or stenting devices. The optimal reperfusion strategy, including considerations of whether to use intravenous or intra-arterial thrombolytic approaches, the use of bridging intravenous treatment prior to intra-arterial treatment, and the use of pharmacological or mechanical adjuncts to IAT is not known. However, it seems likely that the important determinant of therapeutic efficacy is the speed and safety with which reperfusion can be achieved. It may also be that the time available to achieve reperfusion is longer than in the anterior circulation.
Neuropsychological and neuroanatomical correlates of perseverative responses in subacute stroke.	Patients with left-sided neglect frequently show repetitive behaviour on the ipsilesional side, such as re-markings on cancellation tasks or extensive elaboration on drawings. It is unclear whether these perseverative responses occur as a symptom of hemi-neglect or inattention in general, and/or whether they are related to anatomical brain correlates such as lesion location, lesion side or volume. In a first study, we examined the prevalence and neuropsychological correlates of perseverative responses in 206 subacute stroke patients and 63 healthy controls. Perseverative responses were considered present when there was at least one re-marking on the Star Cancellation, and both the degree and spatial distribution of re-markings were examined. A distinction was made between hemi-neglect and non-lateralized inattention. Spatial and verbal working memory were assessed with the Corsi Block Span and the Digit Span. Verbal and non-verbal executive function was assessed with the Visual Elevator and Letter Fluency. Stroke patients without inattention demonstrated re-markings that were related to executive performance, and the degree of perseveration was equally distributed across the sheet. Hemi-neglect patients but not patients with generalized inattention demonstrated more re-markings than controls, suggesting that a lateralized spatial attention bias triggers the perseverative responses. Patients with left and right hemi-neglect showed the same prevalence of perseveration, but the distribution of re-markings was more lateralized towards the ipsilesional side in patients with right-hemispheric stroke. The degree of perseveration in patients with hemi-neglect was related to the severity of the neglect. The goal of the second study on a subset of patients (n = 127) was to determine the neuroanatomical correlates of perseverative responses in the early phase of stroke. Lesion anatomy was administered by indicating involvement of frontal, parietal, temporal, occipital lobe, caudate nucleus, lenticular nucleus and/or thalamus. Lesion volume was calculated using a manual tracing technique. Lesion analyses indicated that perseverative behaviour is strongly associated with lesions involving the caudate nucleus or the lenticular nucleus, independent of lesion volume. The caudate nucleus was an important correlate of perseveration independent of the presence of hemi-neglect. No association was found between lesion side and perseverative responses, in contrast to previous studies. In conclusion, a stroke involving the basal ganglia and the presence of (left- or right-sided) hemi-neglect are two important associates of perseverative responses in the subacute phase of stroke.
Survival and early differentiation of human neural stem cells transplanted in a nonhuman primate model of stroke.	Neural cell transplantation has been proposed as a treatment after stroke. The purpose of this study was to establish if human neural stem cells (HNSCs) could survive in the nonhuman primate brain after an ischemic event.
Stroke-evoked angiogenesis results in a transient population of microvessels.	The role of angiogenesis after stroke is unclear; if angiogenesis supports long-term recovery of blood flow, then microvessel hyperdensity consequent to angiogenesis should persist in infarcted cortex. Here, we assess the long-term stability of ischemia-induced microvessels after 2-h transient rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAo) followed by 30, 90, or 165 days of reperfusion. Stereological measures of microvessel density were taken adjacent to and within cortical cysts. Vascular permeability was documented by extravasation of immunoglobulin (IgG) and of fluorescein-dextran. After 30 days reperfusion, a significantly increased microvessel volume density (V(V)) was restricted to the inner margin of cystic infarcts as compared with the region external to the infarct or contralateral control cortex (F=42.675, P<0.001). The hyperdense ischemic vasculature was abnormally leaky to IgG and fluorescein-dextran. Between 30 and 90 days of reperfusion, this vessel hyperdensity regressed significantly and then regressed further but less drastically between 90 and 165 days. Phagocytic macrophages were restricted to the infarct and dynamic changes in their number correlated with microvessel regression. Additional ED-1 labeled inflammatory cells were widely distributed inside and external to the infarct, even after 165 days of reperfusion. These data show that ischemia evoked angiogenesis results, at least in part, in transient populations of leaky microvessels and phagocytic macrophages. This suggests that a major role of this angiogenesis is for the removal of necrotic brain tissue.
Stroke-induced subventricular zone proliferation is promoted by tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme protease activity.	Cerebral stroke induces proliferation of subventricular zone (SVZ) neural progenitor cells in adult rodent brain. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme (TACE) proteolysis sheds the nonamyloidogenic soluble ectodomain of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and is a convertase for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha). The resulting soluble peptides of APP and TNFalpha are mitogenic for neural progenitor cells of the SVZ. Therefore, we hypothesized a role for TACE proteolysis in stroke-induced neurogenesis. Using laser-capture microdissection, we found TACE transcription was increased in SVZ cells of ischemic brain. Immunohistochemistry revealed TACE protein was upregulated in SVZ neuroblasts. Intraventricular infusion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha protease inhibitor-2 (TAPI-2) decreased bromodeoxyuridine incorporation in SVZ cells of rats subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion. Furthermore, primary culture SVZ neurospheres from ischemic brain overexpress TACE and its substrates APP and TNF-alpha. These cells proliferated more rapidly, possessed increased TACE protease-dependent alpha-secretase activity, and released more soluble APP and TNFalpha compared with nonischemic control. In addition, TAPI-2 reduced SVZ neuroblast migration out of SVZ explants in vitro. These findings indicate TACE proteolysis as a promoter of stroke-induced SVZ progenitor cell neurogenesis, and suggest this protease activity may represent an attractive therapeutic target for stroke recovery.
Growth factor-stimulated generation of new cortical tissue and functional recovery after stroke damage to the motor cortex of rats.	Recent studies suggest that proliferation in the adult forebrain subventricular zone increases in response to a forebrain stroke and intraventricular infusions of growth factors enhance this response. The potential for growth factor infusions to regenerate the damaged motor cortex and promote recovery of motor function after stroke has not been examined. Here, we report that intraventricular infusions of epidermal growth factor and erythropoietin together, but not individually, promote substantial regeneration of the damaged cerebral cortex and reverse impairments in spontaneous and skilled motor tasks, in a rat model of stroke. Cortical regeneration and functional recovery occurred even when growth factor administration was delayed for up to 7 days after the stroke-induced lesion. Cell tracking demonstrated the contribution of neural precursors originating in the forebrain subventricular zone to the regenerated cortex. Strikingly, removal of the regenerated cortical tissue reversed the growth factor-induced functional recovery. These findings reveal that specific combinations of growth factors can mobilize endogenous adult neural stem cells to promote cortical tissue re-growth and functional recovery after stroke.
Imaging of brain hypoxia in permanent and temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat using 18F-fluoromisonidazole and positron emission tomography: a pilot study.	In acute stroke, the target of therapy is the severely hypoxic but salvageable tissue. Previous human studies using 18F-fluoromisonidazole and positron emission tomography (18F-FMISO PET) have shown high tracer retention indicative of tissue hypoxia, which had normalized at repeat scan >48 h later. In the only validation study of 18F-FMISO, using ex vivo autoradiography in thread middle cerebral artery occluded (MCAo) rats, there was unexpected high uptake as late as 22 h after reperfusion, raising questions about the use of 18F-FMISO as a hypoxia tracer. Here we report a pilot study of 18F-FMISO PET in experimental stroke. Spontaneous hypertensive rats were subjected to distal clip MCAo. Three-hour dynamic PET was performed in 7 rats: 3 normals, 1 with permanent MCAo (two sessions: 30 mins and 48 h after clip), and 3 with temporary MCAo (45 mins, n=1; 120 mins, n=2; scanning started 30 mins after clip removal). Experiments were terminated by perfusion-fixation for standard histopathology. Late tracer retention was assessed by both compartmental modelling and simple side-to-side ratios. In the initial PET session of the permanent MCAo rat, striking trapping of 18F-FMISO was observed in the affected cortex, which had normalized 48 h later; histopathology revealed pannecrosis. In contrast, there was no demonstrable tracer retention in either temporary MCAo models, and histopathology showed ischemic changes only. These results document elevated 18F-FMISO uptake in the stroke area only in the early phase of MCAo, but not after early reperfusion nor when tissue necrosis has developed. These findings strongly support the validity of 18F-FMISO as a marker of viable hypoxic tissue/penumbra after stroke.
Functional potential in chronic stroke patients depends on corticospinal tract integrity.	Determining whether a person with stroke has reached their full potential for recovery is difficult. While techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and MRI have some prognostic value, their role in rehabilitation is undefined. This study used TMS and MRI to determine which factors predict functional potential, defined as an individual's capacity for further functional improvement at least 6 months following stroke. We studied 21 chronic stroke patients with upper limb impairment. The functional integrity of the corticospinal tracts (CSTs) was assessed using TMS and functional MRI. The presence or absence of motor-evoked responses (MEPs) to TMS in the affected upper limb, and the lateralization of cortical activity during affected hand use were determined. The structural integrity of the CST was assessed using MRI, and diffusion tensor imaging was used to measure the asymmetry in fractional anisotropy (FA) of the internal capsules. A multiple linear regression analysis was performed, to predict both clinical score at inception and change in clinical score for 17 patients who completed a 30 day programme of motor practice with the affected upper limb. The main findings were that in patients with MEPs, meaningful gains were still possible 3 years after stroke, although the capacity for improvement declined with time. In patients without MEPs, functional potential declines with increasing CST disruption, with no meaningful gains possible if FA asymmetry exceeds a value of 0.25. This study is the first to demonstrate the complementary nature of TMS and MRI techniques in predicting functional potential in chronic stroke patients. An algorithm is proposed for the selection of individualized rehabilitation strategies, based on the prediction of functional potential. These strategies could include neuromodulation using a range of emerging techniques, to prime the motor system for a plastic response to rehabilitation.
Accumulation of immune cells and high expression of chemokines/chemokine receptors in the upstream shoulder of atherosclerotic carotid plaques.	The presence of immune cells is important for plaque destabilization. Disturbed flow conditions were shown to enhance the recruitment of circulating immune cells. Thus, we analyzed in 54 atherosclerotic carotid plaques the frequency of different immune cells, HLA-DR, chemokines, and chemokine receptors, comparing the upstream with the downstream plaque shoulder. The presence of neovascularization and intraplaque hemorrhages was investigated by CD34 immunostaining and Mallory's iron stain. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to detect smooth muscle cells (SMC: actin), macrophages (CD68), T cells (CD3), dendritic cells (DC: fascin), mature DC (CD83), and the expression of HLA-DR, chemokine receptors (CCR-2, CCR-6), and chemokines (MCP-1, MIP-3alpha). Significantly more SMC were detected downstream than upstream (p<0.001). In contrast, significantly more macrophages (p=0.01), DC (p=0.03), mature DC (p=0.007), and a higher expression of HLA-DR (p=0.004), CCR-2 (p=0.002), CCR-6 (p<0.001), MCP-1 (p=0.04), and MIP-3alpha (p=NS) were observed upstream than downstream. Immune cells were strongly associated with neovascularization. The abundance of SMC downstream provides an explanation for distal plaque growth. Enhanced recruitment of immune cells through neovessels into the upstream shoulder might be contributing to plaque destabilization.
Cell cycle machinery and stroke.	Stroke results from a transient or permanent reduction in blood flow to the brain. The mechanisms involving neuronal death following ischemic insult are complex and not fully understood. One signal which may control ischemic neuronal death is the inappropriate activation of cell cycle regulators including cyclins, cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs) and endogenous cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKIs). In dividing cells, activation of cell cycle machinery induces cell proliferation. In the context of terminally differentiated-neurons, however, aberrant activation of these elements triggers neuronal death. Indeed, there are several lines of correlative and functional evidence supporting this "cell cycle/neuronal death hypothesis". The objective of this review is to summarize the findings implicating cell cycle machinery in ischemic neuronal death from in vitro and in vivo studies. Importantly, determining and blocking the signaling pathway(s) by which these molecules act to mediate ischemic neuronal death, in conjunction with other targets may provide a viable therapeutic strategy for stroke damage.
Enriched environment enhances transplanted subventricular zone stem cell migration and functional recovery after stroke.	Stroke patients suffer from severe impairments and significant effort is under way to develop therapies to improve functional recovery. Stem cells provide a promising form of therapy to replace neuronal circuits lost to injury. Indeed, previous studies have shown that a variety of stem cell types can provide some functional recovery in animal models of stroke. However, it is unlikely that replacement therapy alone will be sufficient to maximize recovery. The aim of the present study was to determine if rodent stem cell transplants combined with rehabilitation resulted in enhanced functional recovery after focal ischemia in rats. Middle cerebral artery occlusion was induced by injection of the vasoconstrictive peptide endothelin-1 adjacent to the middle cerebral artery. Seven days after stroke the rats received adult neural stem cell transplants isolated from mouse subventricular zone or vehicle injection and then subsequently were housed in enriched or standard conditions. The rats in the enriched housing also had access to running wheels once a week. Enriched housing and voluntary running exercise enhanced migration of transplanted stem cells toward the region of injury after stroke and there was a trend toward increased survival of stem cells. Enrichment also increased the number of endogenous progenitor cells in the subventricular zone of transplanted animals. Finally, functional recovery measured in the cylinder test was facilitated only when the stem cell transplants were combined with enrichment and running exercise 7 days after the transplant. These results suggest that the ability of transplanted stem cells in promoting recovery can be augmented by environmental factors such as rehabilitation.
Novel molecular imaging of cell death in experimental cerebral stroke.	Cell death is the basic neuropathological substrate in cerebral ischemia, and its non-invasive imaging may improve diagnosis and treatment for stroke patients. ApoSense is a novel family of low-molecular weight compounds for detection and imaging of cell death in vivo. We now report on imaging of cell death and monitoring of efficacy of neuroprotective treatment in vivo by intravenous administration of the ApoSense compound DDC (didansylcystine), in experimental stroke in rodents. Rats and mice were subjected to a short-term (2 h) or permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and injected with DDC or 3H-labeled DDC. Fluorescent and autoradiographic studies, respectively, were performed ex vivo, comprising assessment of DDC uptake in the infarct region, in correlation with tissue histopathology. Neuroprotection was induced by a caspase inhibitor (Q-VD-OPH), and its effect was monitored by DDC. Following its intravenous administration, DDC accumulated selectively in injured neurons within the region of infarct. Caspase inhibition exerted a 45% reduction in infarct volume, which was well reported by DDC. This is the first report on a small molecule probe for detection in vivo of cell death in cerebral stroke. DDC may potentially assist in addressing the current "neuroimaging/neurohistology gap", for molecular assessment of the extent of stroke-related cell death.
Transplantation of post-mitotic human neuroteratocarcinoma-overexpressing Nurr1 cells provides therapeutic benefits in experimental stroke: in vitro evidence of expedited neuronal differentiation and GDNF secretion.	Nurr1 has been implicated as a transcription factor mediating the endogenous neuroprotective mechanism against stroke. We examined the in vivo and in vitro properties of a new human embryonic carcinoma Ntera-2 cell line carrying the human Nurr1 gene (NT2N.Nurr1). Adult Sprague-Dawley rats underwent experimental stroke initially and 14 days later were assigned randomly to receive stereotaxic transplantation of NT2N.Nurr1 cells or infusion of vehicle into their ischemic striatum. Transplantation of NT2N.Nurr1 cells promoted significant attenuation of behavioral impairments over a 56-day period after stroke, characterized by decreased hyperactivity, biased swing activity, and neurologic deficits, as well as significant reduction in ischemic striatal cell loss compared to vehicle-infused stroke animals. Transplanted NT2N.Nurr1 cells survived and expressed neuronal phenotypic markers in the ischemic striatum. In vitro results showed that cultured NT2.Nurr1 cells were already negative for nestin even before retinoic acid treatment, despite strong nestin immunoreactivity in NT2 cells. This indicates Nurr1 triggered a rapid commitment of NT2 cells into a neuronal lineage. Indeed, NT2.Nurr1 cells, at 4 weeks into RA treatment, displayed more abundant tyrosine hydroxylase positive cells than NT2 cells. Parallel ELISA studies showed further that cultured NT2N.Nurr1, but not NT2N cells, secreted glial cell derived neurotrophic factor. The present study shows efficacy of NT2N.Nurr1 cell grafts in ischemic stroke, with in vitro evidence suggesting the cells' excellent neuronal differentiation capability and ability to secrete GDNF as likely mechanisms mediating the observed therapeutic benefits.
Neural regions essential for distinct cognitive processes underlying picture naming.	We hypothesized that distinct cognitive processes underlying oral and written picture naming depend on intact function of different, but overlapping, regions of the left hemisphere cortex, such that the distribution of tissue dysfunction in various areas can predict the component of the naming process that is disrupted. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated 116 individuals within 24 h of acute ischaemic stroke using a battery of oral and written naming and other lexical tests, and with magnetic resonance diffusion and perfusion imaging to identify the areas of tissue dysfunction. Discriminant function analysis, using the degree of hypoperfusion in various Brodmann's areas--BA 22 (including Wernicke's area), BA 44 (part of Broca's area), BA 45 (part of Broca's area), BA 21 (inferior temporal cortex), BA 37 (posterior, inferior temporal/fusiform gyrus), BA 38 (anterior temporal cortex) and BA 39 (angular gyrus)--as discriminant variables, classified patients on the basis of the primary component of the naming process that was impaired (defined as visual, semantics, modality-independent lexical access, phonological word form, orthographic word form and motor speech by the pattern of performance and types of errors across lexical tasks). Additionally, linear regression analysis demonstrated that the areas contributing the most information to the identification of patients with particular levels of impairment in the naming process were largely consistent with evidence for the roles of these regions from functional imaging. This study provides evidence that the level of impairment in the naming process reflects the distribution of tissue dysfunction in particular regions of the left anterior, inferior and posterior middle/superior temporal cortex, posterior inferior frontal and inferior parietal cortex. While occipital cortex is also critical for picture naming, it is likely that bilateral occipital damage is necessary to disrupt visual recognition. These findings provide new evidence that a network of brain regions supports naming, but separate components of this network are differentially required for distinct cognitive processes or representations underlying the complex task of naming pictures.
Effects of somatosensory stimulation on motor function in chronic cortico-subcortical strokes.	Somatosensory stimulation enhances aspects of motor function in patients with chronic, predominantly subcortical infarcts. We investigated the effects of somatosensory stimulation on motor function in stroke patients with predominantly cortical involvement in the middle cerebral artery territory in a double-blind, pseudorandomized crossover trial. Motor performance was evaluated with the Jebsen-Taylor test before, after 2-hour somatosensory stimulation, and after subsequent motor training (n=11). In one experimental session, patients were submitted to median nerve stimulation (MNS) and in the other session, to control stimulation (CS). The order of the sessions was counterbalanced across patients. Improvement in performance in the Jebsen-Taylor test after somatosensory stimulation and after motor training was significantly greater in the MNS session than in the CS session. Additionally, patients who received MNS in the second session maintained the beneficial effects of training 30 days later. A single MNS session improves hand motor function in patients with chronic cortico-subcortical strokes and appears to favor consolidation of training effects. Somatosensory stimulation may be an adjuvant tool for stroke rehabilitation in patients with cortical lesions.
Right anterior cingulate cortex infarction and transient speech aspontaneity.	According to recent functional studies, the medial frontal lobe of the dominant hemisphere plays a role in both word generation and speech initiation. To our knowledge, speech arrest with intact facial expression secondary to the right anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) lesion has not been previously reported.
The Merci Retrieval System for acute stroke: the Southeast Regional Stroke Center experience.	The Merci Retrieval System was cleared for use in patients with stroke in August 2004. However, there are few published results of "real world experience" with the device.
Neural networks essential for naming and word comprehension.	Lesion/deficit association studies of aphasia commonly focus on one brain region as primarily responsible for a particular language deficit. However, functional imaging and some lesion studies indicate that multiple brain regions are likely necessary for any language task. We tested 156 acute stroke patients on basic language tasks (naming and spoken and written word comprehension) and magnetic resonance diffusion and perfusion imaging to determine the relative contributions of various brain regions to each task. Multivariate linear regression analysis indicated that the error rate on each task was best predicted by dysfunction in several perisylvian regions, with both common and distinct regions for the 3 tasks.
Treatment of brain ischemic stroke by co-transplantation of neural stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells]	To discuss the feasibility of treating the brain ischemic stroke by the co-transplantation of the neural stem cells(NSCs) and the endothelial progenitor cells(EPCs).
Neuroprotective potential of ceftriaxone in in vitro models of stroke.	Astrocytic glutamate transporters are considered an important target for neuroprotective therapies as the function of these transporters is abnormal in stroke and other neurological disorders associated with excitotoxicity. Recently, Rothstein et al., [Rothstein JD, Patel S, Regan MR, Haenggeli C, Huang YH, Bergles DE, Jin L, Dykes Hoberg M, Vidensky S, Chung DS, Toan SV, Bruijn LI, Su ZZ, Gupta P, Fisher PB (2005) Beta-lactam antibiotics offer neuroprotection by increasing glutamate transporter expression. Nature 433:73-77] reported that beta-lactam antibiotics (including ceftriaxone, which easily crosses the blood-brain barrier) increase glutamate transporter 1 (GLT-1) expression and reduce cell death resulting from oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in dissociated embryonic cortical cultures. To determine whether a similar neuroprotective mechanism operates in more mature neurons, which show a different pattern of response to ischemia than primary cultures, we exposed acute hippocampal slices obtained from rats treated with ceftriaxone for 5 days (200 mg/kg; i.p.) to OGD. Whole-cell patch clamp recording of glutamate-induced N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) currents from CA1 pyramidal neurons showed a larger potentiation of these currents after application of 15 microM dl-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA; a potent blocker of glutamate transporters) in ceftriaxone-injected animals than in untreated animals, indicating increased glutamate transporter activity. Western blot analysis did not reveal GLT-1 upregulation in the hippocampus. Delay to OGD-induced hypoxic spreading depression (HSD) recorded in slices obtained from ceftriaxone-treated rats was longer (6.3+/-0.2 vs. 5.2+/-0.2 min; P<0.001) than that in the control group, demonstrating a neuroprotective action of the antibiotic in this model. The effect of ceftriaxone was also tested in organotypic hippocampal slices obtained from P7-9 rats (>14 days in vitro). OGD or glutamate (3.5-5.0 mM) damaged CA1 pyramidal neurons as assessed by propidium iodide (PI) fluorescence. Similar damage was observed after pre-treatment with ceftriaxone (10-200 microM; 5 days) and ceftriaxone exposure did not result in GLT-1 upregulation as assayed by Western blot. Treatment of slice cultures with dibutyryl cAMP (100-250 microM; 5 days) increased GLT-1 expression but did not reduce cell damage induced by OGD or glutamate. Thus we confirm the neuroprotective effect of antibiotic exposure on OGD-induced injury, but suggest that this action is related to independent modulation of transporter activity rather than to the level of GLT-1 protein expression. In addition, our results indicate that the protective effects of beta-lactam antibiotics are highly dependent on the experimental model.
The 'wet mind': water and functional neuroimaging.	Functional neuroimaging has emerged as an important approach to study the brain and the mind. Surprisingly, although they are based on radically different physical approaches both positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) make brain activation imaging possible through measurements involving water molecules. So far, PET and MRI functional imaging have relied on the principle that neuronal activation and blood flow are coupled through metabolism. However, a new paradigm has emerged to look at brain activity through the observation with MRI of the molecular diffusion of water. In contrast with the former approaches diffusion MRI has the potential to reveal changes in the intrinsic water physical properties during brain activation, which could be more intimately linked to the neuronal activation mechanisms and lead to an improved spatial and temporal resolution. However, this link has yet to be fully confirmed and understood. To shed light on the possible relationship between water and brain activation, this introductory paper reviews the most recent data on the physical properties of water and on the status of water in biological tissues, and evaluates their relevance to brain diffusion MRI. The biophysical mechanisms of brain activation are then reassessed to reveal their intimacy with the physical properties of water, which may come to be regarded as the 'molecule of the mind'.
In vivo tracking of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells labeled with superparamagnetic iron oxide after cerebral ischemia in rats by magnetic resonance imaging]	To explore the feasibility of in vivo tracking of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) labeled with superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in rats after cerebral ischemia, and to analyze the influence of stem cell therapy on the volume of cerebral infarction.
Abnormal cognitive planning and movement smoothness control for a complex shoulder/elbow motor task in stroke survivors.	Cortical function is not well understood in stroke survivors with persistent dyscoordination. The study purpose was two-fold: 1) characterize cognitive planning time and cognitive effort level for a circle-drawing motor task in stroke survivors using shoulder/elbow muscles and 2) identify the relationship between cognitive effort level and movement smoothness.
Extensive turnover of dendritic spines and vascular remodeling in cortical tissues recovering from stroke.	Recovery of function after stroke is thought to be dependent on the reorganization of adjacent, surviving areas of the brain. Macroscopic imaging studies (functional magnetic resonance imaging, optical imaging) have shown that peri-infarct regions adopt new functional roles to compensate for damage caused by stroke. To better understand the process by which these regions reorganize, we used in vivo two-photon imaging to examine changes in dendritic and vascular structure in cortical regions recovering from stroke. In adult control mice, dendritic arbors were relatively stable with very low levels of spine turnover (<0.5% turnover over 6 h). After stroke, however, the organization of dendritic arbors in peri-infarct cortex was fundamentally altered with both apical dendrites and blood vessels radiating in parallel from the lesion. On a finer scale, peri-infarct dendrites were exceptionally plastic, manifested by a dramatic increase in the rate of spine formation that was maximal at 1-2 weeks (5-8-fold increase), and still evident 6 weeks after stroke. These changes were selective given that turnover rates were not significantly altered in ipsilateral cortical regions more distant to the lesion (>1.5 mm). These data provide a structural framework for understanding functional and behavioral changes that accompany brain injury and suggest new targets that could be exploited by future therapies to rebuild and rewire neuronal circuits lost to stroke.
New technologies and concepts for rehabilitation in the acute phase of stroke: a collaborative matrix.	The process of developing a successful stroke rehabilitation methodology requires four key components: a good understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this brain disease, clear neuroscientific hypotheses to guide therapy, adequate clinical assessments of its efficacy on multiple timescales, and a systematic approach to the application of modern technologies to assist in the everyday work of therapists. Achieving this goal requires collaboration between neuroscientists, technologists and clinicians to develop well-founded systems and clinical protocols that are able to provide quantitatively validated improvements in patient rehabilitation outcomes. In this article we present three new applications of complementary technologies developed in an interdisciplinary matrix for acute-phase upper limb stroke rehabilitation - functional electrical stimulation, arm robot-assisted therapy and virtual reality-based cognitive therapy. We also outline the neuroscientific basis of our approach, present our detailed clinical assessment protocol and provide preliminary results from patient testing of each of the three systems showing their viability for patient use.
The relationship between brain activity and peak grip force is modulated by corticospinal system integrity after subcortical stroke.	In healthy human subjects, the relative contribution of cortical regions to motor performance varies with the task parameters. Additionally, after stroke, recruitment of cortical areas during a simple motor task varies with corticospinal system integrity. We investigated whether the pattern of motor system recruitment in a task involving increasingly forceful hand grips is influenced by the degree of corticospinal system damage. Nine chronic subcortical stroke patients and nine age-matched controls underwent functional magnetic brain imaging whilst performing repetitive isometric hand grips. Target grip forces were varied between 15% and 45% of individual maximum grip force. Corticospinal system functional integrity was assessed with transcranial magnetic stimulation. Averaged across all forces, there was more task-related activation compared with rest in the secondary motor areas of patients with greater corticospinal system damage, confirming previous reports. However, here we were primarily interested in regional brain activation, which covaried with the amount of force generated, implying a prominent executive role in force production. We found that in control subjects and patients with lesser corticospinal system damage, signal change increased linearly with increasing force output in contralateral primary motor cortex, supplementary motor area and ipsilateral cerebellum. In contrast, in patients with greater corticospinal system damage, force-related signal changes were seen mainly in contralesional dorsolateral premotor cortex, bilateral ventrolateral premotor cortices and contralesional cerebellum, but not ipsilesional primary motor cortex. These findings suggest that the premotor cortices might play a new and functionally relevant role in controlling force production in patients with more severe corticospinal system disruption.
Comparison of the fluid attenuated inversion recovery and diffusion-weighted imaging in the early brain stroke]	The aim of the study is to evaluate the reliability of the diffusion-weighted vs. FLAIR MR imaging in the cases of hyper acute brain stroke.
Functionally specific reorganization in human premotor cortex.	After unilateral stroke, the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) in the intact hemisphere is often more active during movement of an affected limb. Whether this contributes to motor recovery is unclear. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to investigate short-term reorganization in right PMd after transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) disrupted the dominant left PMd, which is specialized for action selection. Even when 1 Hz left PMd TMS had no effect on behavior, there was a compensatory increase in activity in right PMd and connected medial premotor areas. This activity was specific to task periods of action selection as opposed to action execution. Compensatory activation changes were both functionally specific and anatomically specific: the same pattern was not seen after TMS of left sensorimotor cortex. Subsequent TMS of the reorganized right PMd did disrupt performance. Thus, this pattern of functional reorganization has a causal role in preserving behavior after neuronal challenge.
Simple sequential boundaries for treatment selection in multi-armed randomized clinical trials with a control.	In situations when many regimens are possible candidates for a large phase III study, but too few resources are available to evaluate each relative to the standard, conducting a multi-armed randomized selection trial is a useful strategy to remove inferior treatments from further consideration. When the study has a relatively quick endpoint such as an imaging-based lesion volume change in acute stroke patients, frequent interim monitoring of the trial is ethically and practically appealing to clinicians. In this article, I propose a class of sequential selection boundaries for multi-armed clinical trials, in which the objective is to select a treatment with a clinically significant improvement upon the control group, or to declare futility if no such treatment exists. The proposed boundaries are easy to implement in a blinded fashion, and can be applied on a flexible monitoring schedule in terms of calendar time. Design calibration with respect to prespecified levels of confidence is simple, and can be accomplished when the response rate of the control group is known only up to an interval. One of the proposed methods is applied to redesign a selection trial with an imaging endpoint in acute stroke patients, and is compared to an optimal two-stage design via simulations: The proposed method imposes smaller sample size on average than the two-stage design; this advantage is substantial when there is in fact a superior treatment to the control group.
Ischemic findings of T2*-weighted 3-tesla MRI in acute stroke patients.	We compared ischemic findings on gradient echo-type T(2)*-weighted images at 3-tesla MRI (T(2)*WI) in patients with acute ischemia and major vessel occlusion, and stroke patients with lacunar infarction or branch atheromatous disease.
fMRI methods for proximal upper limb joint motor testing and identification of undesired mirror movement after stroke.	fMRI has been used to characterize the abnormal brain activity after stroke during attempted motor tasks, the change in brain activity accompanying spontaneous motor recovery, and response to interventions. However, many patients after stroke exhibit abnormally high effort during attempted movements, including undesired movements of the supposed quiescent, uninvolved limb, which could confound fMRI measures. We developed a method of identifying the potentially confounded scans, using EMG measures of muscle activity in the supposed quiescent limb. We found that there was no interference in the MRI signal from the EMG data acquisition system, during simultaneous use of both MRI and EMG. For EMG signal acquisition, as expected, we were able to identify EMG signal free of MRI noise contamination during the inter-scan interval between any given scan and its subsequent scan. We tested movement of the involved limb. We determined that when undesired muscle activation was present in the uninvolved, supposed quiescent limb, there was an over-estimation of the number of active voxels ranging from 10 to 11, depending upon the ROI.
Identifying lesion growth with MR imaging in acute ischemic stroke.	To determine whether different MR diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging (DWI and PWI) parameters are important in distinguishing lesion growth from the acute lesion and from oligemia.
Crossed pattern of sensory loss with left thoracic level in a right dorsolateral medullary infarction]	Medullary infarctions as consequence of vertebro-basilar strokes are frequent findings in clinical practice. Medulla oblongata, the lowest segment of the brainstem, is a dense anatomic structure with different conglomerate of nuclei, ascending and descending pathways within a very small area and tiny insults can present with expressive clinical manifestations. Sensory dysfunction is often a noteworthy element in lateral medullary infarctions and its distribution depends of the site and shape of the lesion within the medulla oblongata. From etiological point of view the most frequent cause of lateral medullary infarctions is atherosclerosis although vertebral dissection has to be carefully ruled out.
Medulla oblongata tuberculoma mimicking metastasis presenting with stroke-like symptoms.	Tuberculomas are common forms of central nervous system tuberculosis, presenting as space-occupying-lesions. Brainstem tuberculomas are rare among all intracranial tuberculomas. In old patients, in the absence of tuberculosis history, diagnosis may be challenging. In this case, we present a 70-year-old patient, with bladder cancer, without known tuberculosis who presented with stroke-like symptoms, clinically. Diffusion-weighted imaging revealed no finding of stroke, however, a medulla oblongata tuberculoma, mimicking metastasis was evident on MRI.
Histopathologic description of Wingspan stent in acute ischemic stroke.	We report the histopathologic examination of Wingspan stent in acute ischemic stroke.
The impact of left hemisphere stroke on force control with familiar and novel objects: neuroanatomic substrates and relationship to apraxia.	Fingertip force scaling for lifting objects frequently occurs in anticipation of finger contact. An ongoing question concerns the types of memories that are used to inform predictive control. Object-specific information such as weight may be stored and retrieved when previously encountered objects are lifted again. Alternatively, visual size and shape cues may provide estimates of object density each time objects are encountered. We reasoned that differences in performance with familiar versus novel objects would provide support for the former possibility. Anticipatory force production with both familiar and novel objects was assessed in six left hemisphere stroke patients, two of whom exhibited deficient actions with familiar objects (ideomotor apraxia; IMA), along with five control subjects. In contrast to healthy controls and stroke participants without IMA, participants with IMA displayed poor anticipatory scaling with familiar objects. However, like the other groups, IMA participants learned to differentiate fingertip forces with repeated lifts of both familiar and novel objects. Finally, there was a significant correlation between damage to the inferior parietal and superior and middle temporal lobes and impaired anticipatory control for familiar objects. These data support the hypotheses that anticipatory control during lifts of familiar objects in IMA patients are based on object-specific memories and that the ventro-dorsal stream is involved in the long-term storage of internal models used for anticipatory scaling during object manipulation.
Acute stroke magnetic resonance imaging: current status and future perspective.	Cerebral stroke is one of the most frequent causes of permanent disability or death in the western world and a major burden in healthcare system. The major portion is caused by acute ischemia due to cerebral artery occlusion by a clot. The minority of strokes is related to intracerebral hemorrhage or other sources. To limit the permanent disability in ischemic stroke patients resulting from irreversible infarction of ischemic brain tissue, major efforts were made in the last decade. To extend the time window for thrombolysis, which is the only approved therapy, several imaging parameters in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have been investigated. However, the current guidelines neglect the fact that the portion of potentially salvageable ischemic tissue (penumbra) is not dependent on the time window but the individual collateral blood flow. Within the last years, the differentiation of infarct core and penumbra with MRI using diffusion-weighted images (DWI) and perfusion imaging (PI) with parameter maps was established. Current trials transform these technical advances to a redefined patient selection based on physiological parameters determined by MRI. This review article presents the current status of MRI for acute stroke imaging. A special focus is the ischemic stroke. In dependence on the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia, the basic principle and diagnostic value of different MRI sequences are illustrated. MRI techniques for imaging of the main differential diagnoses of ischemic stroke are mentioned. Moreover, perspectives of MRI for imaging-based acute stroke treatment as well as monitoring of restorative stroke therapy from recent trials are discussed.
Transplantation of placenta-derived mesenchymal stromal cells upon experimental stroke in rats.	The beneficial effects of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) administration following experimental stroke have already been described. Despite several promising characteristics, placenta-derived MSC have not been used in models of focal ischemia. The aim of the current study is to investigate the impact of intravenously transplanted placenta-derived MSC on post-stroke recovery. Permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery was induced in spontaneously hypertensive rats. MSC were obtained from the human maternal or fetal placenta and intravenously administered after 24 h (single transplantation) or after 8 h and 24 h (dual transplantation). Sensorimotor deficits were quantified for 60 days using the beam walk test and the modified Neurological Severity Score system. Infarct volume was determined in vivo by means of magnetic resonance imaging on days 1, 8, 29 and 60. Astroglial reactivity was semiquantitatively ascertained within a small and a broad region adjacent to the lesion border. The double infusion of placental MSC was superior to single transplantation in the functional tests. However, a significant difference to the control group in all outcome parameters was observed only for maternally derived MSC. These findings suggest that placental tissue constitutes a promising source for experimental stroke therapies.
Boosting the chances to improve stroke treatment.	There is a lack of agreement regarding measuring the effects of stroke treatment in clinical trials, which often relies on the dichotomized value of 1 outcome scale. Alternative analyses consist mainly of 2 strategies: use all the information from an ordinal scale and combine information from several outcome scales in a single estimate.
Comparison of bone marrow stromal cells derived from stroke and normal rats for stroke treatment.	We compared the effect of treatment of stroke with bone marrow stromal cells from stroke rats (Isch-BMSC) and normal rats (Nor-BMSC) on functional outcome.
WebParc: a tool for analysis of the topography and volume of stroke from MRI.	The quantitative assessment of the anatomic consequences of cerebral infarction is critical in the study of the etiology and therapeutic response in patients with stroke. We present here an overview of the operation of "WebParc," a computational system that provides measures of stroke lesion volume and location with respect to canonical forebrain neural systems nomenclature. Using a web-based interface, clinical imaging data can be registered to a template brain that contains a comprehensive set of anatomic structures. Upon delineation of the lesion, we can express the size and localization of the lesion in terms of the regions that are intersected within the template. We demonstrate the application of the system using MRI-based diffusion-weighted imaging and document measures of the validity and reliability of its uses. Intra- and inter-rater reliability is demonstrated, and characterized relative to the various classes of anatomic regions that can be assessed. The WebParc system has been developed to meet criteria of both efficiency and intuitive operator use in the real time analysis of stroke anatomy, so as to be useful in support of clinical care and clinical research studies. This article is an overview of its base-line operation with quantitative anatomic characterization of lesion size and location in terms of stroke distribution within the separate gray and white matter compartments of the brain.
Early treadmill training promotes motor function after hemorrhagic stroke in rats.	Rehabilitation after a stroke is very important because it has beneficial effects on brain function, including the promotion of plasticity. However, an optimal time window for rehabilitation interventions after hemorrhagic stroke has not been clearly defined. The aim of this study was to determine whether early exercise training initiated 24h after an intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) might enhance neurologic recovery more than exercise initiated 1 week after ICH without hematoma expansion and edema volume increase. We subjected adult male Sprague-Dawley rats to experimental ICH by the intrastriatal administration of bacterial collagenase. The rats were randomly divided into the following 2 groups: early training group (treadmill exercise started 24h post-ICH; n=18) and late training group (treadmill exercise started 1-week post-ICH; n=18). Two weeks after surgery we performed neurologic tests (rota-rod, modified limb-placing, and adhesive-dot removal tests), and measured hematoma volumes and brain water content. In the late training group, compared with the pre-ICH performance on the rota-rod test (98.3+/-69.4s), the animals had significantly worse performance after the post-ICH rehabilitation (40.5+/-52.6s; p<0.01, paired t-test). In the early training group however, the motor performance after the post-ICH rehabilitation (56.4+/-73.5s) was not significantly different from the baseline pre-ICH performance (79.8+/-33.9s; p=0.24). There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to the other neurologic tests. Early exercise did not increase hematoma size or brain water content. Early treadmill training could be performed safely, and enhanced motor recovery in a rat model of ICH. Further studies are required to translate the results into clinical significance.
Docosahexaenoic acid prevents dendritic cell maturation and in vitro and in vivo expression of the IL-12 cytokine family.	Acute and chronic inflammation play essential roles in inflammatory/autoimmune conditions. Protective anti-inflammatory effects of the n-3 fatty acids docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) were reported in animal models of colitis, sepsis, and stroke. Since dendritic cells (DC) represent the essential cellular link between innate and adaptive immunity and have a prominent role in tolerance for self-antigens, we sought to investigate the impact of DHA on DC maturation and proinflammatory cytokine production.
Reduced blood brain barrier breakdown in P-selectin deficient mice following transient ischemic stroke: a future therapeutic target for treatment of stroke.	The link between early blood- brain barrier (BBB) breakdown and endothelial cell activation in acute stroke remain poorly defined. We hypothesized that P-selectin, a mediator of the early phase of leukocyte recruitment in acute ischemia is also a major contributor to early BBB dysfunction following stroke. This was investigated by examining the relationship between BBB alterations following transient ischemic stroke and expression of cellular adhesion molecule P-selectin using a combination of magnetic resonance molecular imaging (MRMI), intravital microscopy and immunohistochemistry. MRMI was performed using the contrast, gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA) conjugated to Sialyl Lewis X (Slex) where the latter is known to bind to activated endothelium via E- or P selectins. Middle cerebral artery occlusion was induced in male C57/BL 6 wild-type (WT) mice and P-selectin-knockout (KO) mice. At 24 hours following middle cerebral artery occlusion, T1 maps were acquired prior to and following contrast injection. In addition to measuring P- and E-selectin expression in brain homogenates, alterations in BBB function were determined immunohistochemically by assessing the extravasation of immunoglobulin G (IgG) or staining for polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes. In vivo assessment of BBB dysfunction was also investigated optically using intravital microscopy of the pial circulation following the injection of Fluorescein Isothiocyanate (FITC)-dextran (MW 2000 kDa).
Volume-regulated chloride channels and cerebral vascular remodelling.	1. Transmembrane Cl(-) transport through volume-regulated Cl(-) channels (VRCC) is implicated in cell cycle control and the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). In cerebrovascular VSMC, volume-regulated Cl(-) movement is enhanced with the severity of cerebrovascular remodelling induced by hypertension. 2. Expression of the ClC-3 chloride channel, a potential molecular candidate for the VRCC, is significantly increased with the progression of VSMC proliferation, but is decreased in apoptosis. 3. In the present review, we summarize recent findings regarding the functional role of volume-regulated ClC-3 chloride channels in VSMC proliferation, apoptosis and cerebrovascular remodelling during the development of hypertension. In addition, we discuss the relationship between the channel and intracellular signalling pathways, including the production of reactive oxygen species and the phosphorylation of Akt. 4. Recent studies strongly suggest that VRCC/ClC-3 is involved in the regulation of both cell proliferation and apoptosis. These findings suggest that ClC-3 chloride channels may be potential new targets for the prevention of the cerebrovascular remodelling that occurs during the development of hypertension.
Transplanted late outgrowth endothelial progenitor cells as cell therapy product for stroke.	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) seem to be a promising option to treat patients with ischemic diseases. Here, we investigated the effects of late outgrowth EPCs, or endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFCs), a recently defined homogeneous subtype of EPCs, in a rat model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Either vehicle or 4.10(6) ECFCs, isolated from human cord blood, were intravenously injected 24 h after 1 h MCAO in rats assigned to control and transplanted groups respectively. (111)In-oxine-labeled ECFCs specifically homed to ischemic hemisphere and CM-Dil prelabeled ECFCs preferentially settled in the inner boundary of the core area of transplanted animals. Although incorporation of cells into neovessels was hardly detectable, ECFCs transplantation was associated with a reduction in apoptotic cell number, an increase in capillary density and a stimulation of neurogenesis at the site of injury. These effects were associated with an increase in growth factors expression in homogenates from ischemic area and may be related to the secretion by ECFCs of soluble factors that could affect apoptosis, vascular growth and neurogenesis. Microscopic examination of the ischemic hemisphere showed that ECFCs transplantation was also associated with a reduction in reactive astrogliosis. In conclusion, we demonstrated that ECFCs injected 24 h after MCAO settled in the injured area and improved functional recovery. The neurological benefits may be linked to a reduction in ischemia-induced apoptosis and a stimulation of ischemia-induced angiogenesis and neurogenesis. These findings raise perspectives for the use of ECFCs as a well-characterized cell therapy product for optimal therapeutic outcome after stroke.
Evidence that OGG1 glycosylase protects neurons against oxidative DNA damage and cell death under ischemic conditions.	7,8-Dihydro-8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) is a major DNA glycosylase involved in base-excision repair (BER) of oxidative DNA damage to nuclear and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We used OGG1-deficient (OGG1(-/-)) mice to examine the possible roles of OGG1 in the vulnerability of neurons to ischemic and oxidative stress. After exposure of cultured neurons to oxidative and metabolic stress levels of OGG1 in the nucleus were elevated and mitochondria exhibited fragmentation and increased levels of the mitochondrial fission protein dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) and reduced membrane potential. Cortical neurons isolated from OGG1(-/-) mice were more vulnerable to oxidative insults than were OGG1(+/+) neurons, and OGG1(-/-) mice developed larger cortical infarcts and behavioral deficits after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion compared with OGG1(+/+) mice. Accumulations of oxidative DNA base lesions (8-oxoG, FapyAde, and FapyGua) were elevated in response to ischemia in both the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres, and to a greater extent in the contralateral cortex of OGG1(-/-) mice compared with OGG1(+/+) mice. Ischemia-induced elevation of 8-oxoG incision activity involved increased levels of a nuclear isoform OGG1, suggesting an adaptive response to oxidative nuclear DNA damage. Thus, OGG1 has a pivotal role in repairing oxidative damage to nuclear DNA under ischemic conditions, thereby reducing brain damage and improving functional outcome.
A primary study of diffusion tensor imaging-based histogram analysis in vascular cognitive impairment with no dementia.	This study performed diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) histogram analysis and voxel-based analysis (VBA) to detect white matter (WM) damage in patients with vascular cognitive impairment with no dementia (VCIND) and to determine correlations between DTI histogram-derived measures and cognitive dysfunction in these patients.
DTI-MR tractography of white matter damage in stroke patients with neglect.	Left visual neglect is a dramatic neurological condition that impairs awareness of left-sided events. Neglect has been classically reported after strokes in the territory of the right middle cerebral artery. However, the precise lesional correlates of neglect within this territory remain discussed. Recent evidence strongly suggests an implication of dysfunction of large-scale perisylvian networks in chronic neglect, but the quantitative relationships between neglect signs and damage to white matter (WM) tracts have never been explored. In this prospective study, we used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) tractography in twelve patients with a vascular stroke in the right hemisphere. Six of these patients showed signs of neglect. Nonparametric voxel-based comparisons between neglect and controls on fractional anisotropy maps revealed clusters in the perisylvian WM and in the external capsule. Individual DTI tractography identified specific disconnections of the fronto-parietal and fronto-occipital pathways in the neglect group. Voxel-based correlation statistics highlighted correlations between patients' performance on two visual search tasks and damage to WM clusters. These clusters were located in the anterior limb of the internal capsule and in the WM underlying the inferior frontal gyrus, along the trajectory of the anterior segment of the arcuate fasciculus (asAF). These results indicate that chronic visual neglect can result from, and correlate with, damage to fronto-parietal connections in the right hemisphere, within large-scale cortical networks important for orienting of spatial attention, arousal and spatial working memory.
Using paired pulse TMS to facilitate contralateral and ipsilateral MEPs in upper extremity muscles of chronic hemiparetic stroke patients.	In moderate to severely impaired stroke patients, single pulse TMS, with or without background facilitation, may not be able to evoke a motor response in muscles of the upper extremity, thereby hindering potential studies of stroke patients using TMS. Paired pulse TMS has been shown to facilitate responses in distal muscles of healthy subjects. In this study, our aim was to investigate thirteen muscles of the upper extremity in moderate to severely impaired stroke patients and determine the paired pulse interstimulus interval (ISI) that was optimal for facilitation of the TMS response.
Functional recovery after hematic administration of allogenic mesenchymal stem cells in acute ischemic stroke in rats.	Hematic administration of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in acute ischemic stroke may not only be an effective reparative treatment but also a brain protective therapy that improves neurological recovery. Our purpose was to study whether either i.v. or intracarotid (i.c.) administration of allogenic MSCs during the acute phase were effective in improving neurological recovery and decreasing brain damage in an experimental rat model. In a model of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), we analyzed: neurological evaluation; MSCs migration and implantation; interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) levels; lesion volume; cell death; cellular proliferation; vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression and blood vessel number. Regardless of the administration route, treated groups showed better neurological recovery, without significant differences between the two groups. Migration and implantation of MSCs in the lesion area was observed in animals receiving i.c. but not i.v. treatment. The highest cytokine values were observed in the i.v. MSCs and i.c. control groups, and these levels were significantly different from the corresponding i.v. control and i.c. MSCs groups, respectively. In addition, there were significant differences between the i.v. MSCs and i.c. MSCs groups in IL-6 levels. Neither treatment reduced infarction volume. However, cell death, measured as TUNEL+ cells was decreased with significant differences between control groups. BrdU+ cells were also significantly increased in the peri-infarct zone at 14 days. VEGF expression was significantly higher in the i.c. MSCs group than in the i.c. control group and blood vessel number was significantly higher in treated groups than control groups with significant differences in the peri-infarct zone at 14 days. We conclude that allogenic MSCs administration shows therapeutic efficacy in our acute ischemic stroke model. Both routes demonstrably improved neurological recovery and provided brain protection.
Anatomy of stroke injury predicts gains from therapy.	Many therapies are emerging that aim to improve motor function in people with stroke. Identifying key biological substrates needed for treatment gains would help to predict treatment effects and to maximize treatment impact. The current study addressed the hypothesis that behavioral gains from therapy targeting distal upper extremity are predicted by the structural integrity of key motor system white matter tracts.
Endogenous tissue plasminogen activator mediates bone marrow stromal cell-induced neurite remodeling after stroke in mice.	Bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) decrease neurological deficits in rodents after stroke and concomitantly induce extensive neurite remodeling in the brain, which highly correlates with the improvement of neurological function. We investigated the effects of endogenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) on neurite remodeling after BMSC treatment.
CT and MRI early vessel signs reflect clot composition in acute stroke.	The purpose of this study was to provide the first correlative study of the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign (HMCAS) and gradient-echo MRI blooming artifact (BA) with pathology of retrieved thrombi in acute ischemic stroke.
Diffusion tensor MRI reveals chronic alterations in white matter despite the absence of a visible ischemic lesion on conventional MRI: a nonhuman primate study.	The impact of stroke on white matter is poorly described in preclinical investigations mainly based on rodents with a low white (WM)/gray matter ratio. Using diffusion tensor imaging, we evaluated WM alterations and correlated them with sensorimotor deficits after stroke in the marmoset, a nonhuman primate that displays a WM/gray matter ratio close to that of humans.
Neuronal autophagy as a mediator of life and death: contrasting roles in chronic neurodegenerative and acute neural disorders.	Autophagy is a cellular mechanism for degrading proteins and organelles. It was first described as a physiological process essential for cellular health and survival, and this is its role in most cells. However, it can also be a mediator of cell death, either by the triggering of apoptosis or by an independent "autophagic" cell death mechanism. This duality is important in the central nervous system, where the activation of autophagy has recently been shown to be protective in certain chronic neurodegenerative diseases but deleterious in acute neural disorders such as stroke and hypoxic/ischemic injury. The authors here discuss these distinct roles of autophagy in the nervous system with a focus on the role of autophagy in mediating neuronal death. The development of new therapeutic strategies based on the manipulation of autophagy will need to take into account these opposing roles of autophagy.
Influence of the neural stem cell transplantation on the restoration of CNS functions in rats with cortical stroke]	Ischemic stroke was modeled in white pedigreeless rats by the superficial blood vessel devascularization in the sensorimotor cortex. The preparations of neural progenitors--rat embryonic neural stem cells (rENSC) and human olfactory epithelium-derived neural stem cells (hOENSC) and differentiated fibroblasts ("cell control") were transplanted at the perimeter of the devascularized region. These cells marked with vital tracer stayed alive in the brain parenchyma for at least 16 days. The monitoring of contralateral forepaw motor deficit during 8 weeks demonstrated that only rats with rENSC transplantation had the stable and significant improvement of performance in cylinder test and swimming test (forepaw inhibition test) in comparison to "cell controls" and rats without cell transplantation. The maximal difference in the relative values (the efficacy) was 25% to the end of the experiment. There was no difference in the indicators of vibrissae-elicited forelimb placing test between experimental groups. The methodological approach used makes it possible to broaden the study of mechanisms of neural stem cells' therapeutic effect in stroke.
Effects of transplantation with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells modified by Survivin on experimental stroke in rats.	This study was performed to determine whether injury induced by cerebral ischemia could be further improved by transplantation with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) modified by Survivin (SVV).
Restoring neuronal function after stroke by cell replacement: anatomic and functional considerations.	A major challenge to effective treatment after stroke is the restoration of neuronal function. In recent years, cell-based therapies for stroke have been explored in experimental animal models, and the results have suggested behavioral improvements. However, the anatomic targets of a cell-based stroke therapy and the relationship of cell grafts to post stroke reorganization are poorly understood, which results in difficulties defining strategies for neuronal substitution. Given that stroke causes a variety of secondary changes at locations beyond the infarct lesion, overcoming these difficulties is even more important.
Acute perfusion and diffusion abnormalities predict early new MRI lesions 1 week after minor stroke and transient ischemic attack.	Transient ischemic attack and minor stroke are associated with high ischemic recurrence in the first week. We prospectively studied the correlation between baseline diffusion/perfusion deficits and development of new ischemic lesions.
Varicella zoster virus vasculopathy: analysis of virus-infected arteries.	Varicella zoster virus (VZV) is an under-recognized yet treatable cause of stroke. No animal model exists for stroke caused by VZV infection of cerebral arteries. Thus, we analyzed cerebral and temporal arteries from 3 patients with VZV vasculopathy to identify features that will help in diagnosis and lead to a better understanding of VZV-induced vascular remodeling.
Ischemic stroke due to dissection of the middle cerebral artery treated by superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis--case report.	A 62-year-old man presented with dissection of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) manifesting as mild headache, right hemiparesis, and slurred speech. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR angiography revealed fresh infarction in the right basal ganglia, and severe stenosis and dilatation of the right MCA. Digital subtraction angiography approximately 24 hours after admission revealed a linear contrast defect indicating an intimal flap of the M(1) segment. The diagnosis was dissection of the MCA. His neurological deficits improved gradually. Although he was neurologically stable, diffusion-weighted MR imaging revealed enlarging infarct size over the right MCA territory, and the right M(1) segment had progressive stenosis. Superficial temporal artery (STA)-MCA anastomosis was performed on the 26th day. Follow-up angiography showed good patency of the STA-MCA anastomosis, repair of the dissection of the M(1) segment, and improvement of the flow in the MCA. The patient was discharged from our hospital with no neurological deficits. Although the dissection in this case was spontaneously repaired, STA-MCA anastomosis was useful to get through a critical time. If the stenosis shows further progression or the infarction size enlarges, STA-MCA anastomosis may be effective.
Intravenous autologous bone marrow mononuclear cells for ischemic stroke.	Cellular therapy is an investigational approach for stroke. Mononuclear cells (MNCs) from the bone marrow reduce neurological deficits in animal stroke models. We determined if autologous MNC infusion was feasible and safe in patients with ischemic stroke.
Comparison of the lesion produced by permanent focal cerebral ischaemia in three animal models using magnetic resonance imaging]	Animal models of brain ischemia are essential to reveal the full aspects of cerebrovascular pathologies. The perfect animal model that reflects every aspect of stroke pathophysiology does not exist, hence there is a need for a proper selection of the animal model in order to interpret properly the results from experimental research.
Cell-derived microparticles in atherosclerosis: biomarkers and targets for pharmacological modulation?	Cardiovascular diseases remain an important cause of morbi-mortality. Atherosclerosis, which predisposes to cardiovascular disorders such as myocardial infarction and stroke, develops silently over several decades. Identification of circulating biomarkers to evaluate cardiovascular event risk and pathology prognosis is of particular importance. Microparticles (MPs) are small vesicles released from cells upon apoptosis or activation. Microparticles are present in blood of healthy individuals. Studies showing a modification of their concentrations in patients with cardiovascular risk factors and after cardiovascular events identify MPs as potential biomarkers of disease. Moreover, the pathophysiological properties of MPs may contribute to atherosclerosis development. In addition, pharmacological compounds, used in the treatment of cardiovascular disease, can reduce plasma MP concentrations. Nevertheless, numerous issues remain to be solved before MP measurement can be applied as routine biological tests to improve cardiovascular risk prediction. In particular, prospective studies to identify the predictive values of MPs in pathologies such as cardiovascular diseases are needed to demonstrate whether MPs are useful biomarkers for the early detection of the disease and its progression.
The potential of stem cell therapy for stroke: is PISCES the sign?	Substantial developments in the field of stem cell research point toward novel therapies for the treatment of diseases such as stroke. This review covers the establishment of tissue damage in stroke and the status of current therapies. We evaluate stem cell therapy with respect to other treatments, including clinical, preclinical, and failed, and provide a comprehensive account of stem cell clinical trials for stroke therapy currently underway. Finally, we describe mechanisms through which stem cells improve outcome in experimental stroke as well as potential pitfalls this basic research has identified.
The Rivermead Mobility Index allows valid comparisons between subgroups of patients undergoing rehabilitation after stroke who differ with respect to age, sex, or side of lesion.	To investigate differential item functioning or item bias of the Rivermead Mobility Index (RMI) and its impact on the drawing of valid comparisons with the RMI between subgroups of patients after stroke who differ with respect to age, sex, or side of lesion.
Elevated T2-values in MRI of stroke patients shortly after symptom onset do not predict irreversible tissue infarction.	Distinct from signal alterations in diffusion-weighted images, T(2)-values are also dependent on tissue water content and known to increase with time from symptom onset in acute ischaemic stroke. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether there is a detectable increase of T(2)-values in different regions in acute ischaemic stroke in the acute and subacute situation and to study the effect of recanalization on the evaluation of T(2)-values in the subacute phase. In addition, we sought to evaluate whether this increase in T(2)-values is reversible. For this purpose, 22 patients with acute ischaemic stroke in the territory of the middle cerebral artery underwent magnetic resonance imaging including diffusion-weighted imaging, perfusion-weighted imaging, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery to determine final infarct size, time-of-flight-angiography (acute and on day 1 or 2) and a triple echo-T(2)-sequence (calculation of T(2) maps) within 6h after symptom onset. Images were co-registered and regions of diffusion restriction and prolonged time-to-peak as well as surviving tissue (surviving tissue=time-to-peak - final infarct size) and lesion growth (lesion growth=final infarct size-diffusion restriction) were defined and superimposed onto the quantitative T(2) map. In addition, patients were dichotomized according to recanalization information. Mean quantitative T(2)-values were derived for each patient within each region of interest. Mean T(2)-values for patients with recanalization (n=15) in surviving tissue region of interest were 115.87.2ms (meanSD) and in the lesion growth region of interest 114.67.0ms. T(2)-values for patients without recanalization (n=7) were 117.711.4ms in surviving tissue region of interest and 117.312.1ms in lesion growth region of interest. There was no significant difference between T(2)-values measured in lesion growth and surviving tissue region of interest for patients with or without recanalization. Even though it has been shown that T(2)-values increase with time from symptom onset within the infarct core, increased T(2)-values in areas of perfusion impairment do not identify irreversible damaged brain tissue and high T(2)-values are even found in tissue that is not part of the final infarct lesion and can therefore normalize. In conclusion, this study suggests that T(2)-values are not a valid imaging biomarker in acute stroke to predict tissue outcome.
SC1/hevin identifies early white matter injury after ischemia and intracerebral hemorrhage in young and aged rats.	The progression of white matter damage after ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes can exacerbate the initial injury, but little is known about the processes involved. We show that the antiadhesive matricellular glycoprotein SC1 is a novel early marker of white matter damage in 3 models of acute injury in the rat striatum: transient focal ischemia, intracerebral hemorrhage, and a needle penetration wound. SC1 was restricted to the damaged portions of axon bundles that bordered stroke lesions in young-adult and aged rats. SC1 peaked at 1 and 3 days after intracerebral hemorrhage and at 7 days after ischemia. The SC1-positive bundles usually expressed degraded myelin basic protein and amyloid precursor protein, a marker of axonal injury. At the hematoma edge, SC1 was seen in a few axon bundles that retained myelin basic protein staining. In these bundles, punctate SC1 staining filled individual axons, extended beyond a core of pan-axonal neurofilament and NF200 and was inside or overlapped with myelin basic protein staining when it was present. Aged rats had less SC1 (and amyloid precursor protein) after both types of stroke, suggesting a reduced axonal response. SC1 also labeled amyloid precursor protein-positive axon bundles along the needle penetration tract of saline-injected rats; thus, SC1 appears to characterize damaged striatal white matter damage after multiple types of injury.
Neural correlates supporting sensory discrimination after left hemisphere stroke.	Nearly half of stroke patients have impaired sensory discrimination, however, the neural structures that support post-stroke sensory function have not been described.
Diffusion tensor imaging shows structural remodeling of stroke mirror region: results from a pilot study.	The role of the non-injured hemisphere in stroke recovery is poorly understood. In this pilot study, we sought to explore the presence of structural changes detectable by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in the contralesional hemispheres of patients who recovered well from ischemic stroke.
Frontoparietal involvement in passively guided shape and length discrimination: a comparison between subcortical stroke patients and healthy controls.	Fifty to 85 % of patients with sensorimotor hemiparesis following stroke encounter impaired tactile processing and proprioception. Sensory feedback is, however, paramount for motor recovery. Sensory feedback through passively guided somatosensory discrimination exercises has been used in therapy, but so far, no studies have investigated which brain areas are involved in this process. Therefore, we performed a study with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine brain areas related to discriminating passively guided shape and length discrimination in stroke patients and evaluate whether they differed from healthy age-matched controls. Eight subcortical stroke patients discriminated different shapes or length based on passive finger movements provided by an fMRI compatible robot. The data were contrasted to a control condition whereby patients discriminated music fragments. Passively guided somatosensory discrimination versus music discrimination elicited activation in similar frontoparietal areas in stroke patients compared to the healthy control group. Still, patients had increased activation in the right angular gyrus, left superior lingual gyrus, and right cerebellar lobule VI compared to healthy volunteers. Conversely, healthy volunteers activated the right precentral gyrus to a greater extent than patients. In both groups, shape discrimination resulted in anterior intraparietal sulcus and premotor activation, while length discrimination elicited a more medially located parietal activation with mainly right-sided premotor activity. The current study is a first step in clarifying brain activations during passively guided shape and length discrimination in subcortical stroke patients. Research into the effects of the use of sensory discrimination exercises on brain reorganization and brain plasticity is encouraged.
Appearance of WBC-platelet complex in acute ischemic stroke, predominantly in atherothrombotic infarction.	Platelet aggregates with white blood cells (WBC-platelet complex) have recently been proposed as a marker of activated platelets, in addition to well-known molecular markers. We aimed to investigate the colocalization of activated platelets and WBC-platelet complex by means of flow cytometry, in patients with ischemic stroke.
Distinctive effects of T cell subsets in neuronal injury induced by cocultured splenocytes in vitro and by in vivo stroke in mice.	T cells and their subsets modulate ischemic brain injury. We studied the effects of the absence of T cell subsets on brain infarction after in vivo stroke and then used an in vitro coculture system of splenocytes and neurons to further identify the roles of T cell subsets in neuronal death.
Carbon nanotubes impregnated with subventricular zone neural progenitor cells promotes recovery from stroke.	The present in vivo study was conducted to evaluate whether hydrophilic (HL) or hydrophobic (HP) carbon nanotubes (CNTs) impregnated with subventricular zone neural progenitor cells (SVZ NPCs) could repair damaged neural tissue following stroke. For this purpose, stroke damaged rats were transplanted with HL CNT-SVZ NPCs, HP CNT-SVZ NPCs, or SVZ NPCs alone for 1, 3, 5, and 8 weeks. Results showed that the HP CNT-SVZ NPC transplants improved rat behavior and reduced infarct cyst volume and infarct cyst area compared with the experimental control and the HL CNT-SVZ NPC and SVZ NPCs alone groups. The transplantation groups showed an increase in the expression of nestin (cell stemness marker) and proliferation which was evident with the increased number of doublecortin and bromodeoxyuridine double-stained immunopositive cells around the lesion site. But, these effects were more prominent in the HP CNT-SVZ NPC group compared with the other transplantation groups. The HP CNT-SVZ NPC and HL CNT-SVZ NPC transplants increased the number of microtubule-associated protein 2 (marker for neurons) and decreased the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein (marker for astroglial cells) positive cells within the injury epicenter. The majority of the transplanted HP CNT-SVZ NPCs collectively broadened around the ischemic injured region and the SVZ NPCs differentiated into mature neurons, attained the synapse morphology (TUJ1, synaptophysin), and decreased microglial activation (CD11b/c [OX-42]). For these reasons, this study provided the first evidence that CNTs can improve stem cell differentiation to heal stroke damage and, thus, deserve further attention.
Ultrahigh-field MRI in human ischemic stroke--a 7 tesla study.	Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using field strengths up to 3 Tesla (T) has proven to be a powerful tool for stroke diagnosis. Recently, ultrahigh-field (UHF) MRI at 7 T has shown relevant diagnostic benefits in imaging of neurological diseases, but its value for stroke imaging has not been investigated yet. We present the first evaluation of a clinically feasible stroke imaging protocol at 7 T. For comparison an established stroke imaging protocol was applied at 3 T.
Eye proprioception used for visual localization only if in conflict with the oculomotor plan.	Both the corollary discharge of the oculomotor command and eye muscle proprioception provide eye position information to the brain. Two contradictory models have been suggested about how these two sources contribute to visual localization: (1) only the efference copy is used whereas proprioception is a slow recalibrator of the forward model, and (2) both signals are used together as a weighted average. We had the opportunity to test these hypotheses in a patient (R.W.) with a circumscribed lesion of the right postcentral gyrus that overlapped the human eye proprioceptive representation. R.W. was as accurate and precise as the control group (n = 19) in locating a lit LED that she viewed through the eye contralateral to the lesion. However, when the task was preceded by a brief (<1 s), gentle push to the closed eye, which perturbed eye position and stimulated eye proprioceptors in the absence of a motor command, R.W.'s accuracy significantly decreased compared with both her own baseline and the healthy control group. The data suggest that in normal conditions, eye proprioception is not used for visual localization. Eye proprioception is, however, continuously monitored to be incorporated into the eye position estimate when a mismatch with the efference copy of the motor command is detected. Our result thus supports the first model and, furthermore, identifies the limits for its operation.
Ischemic stroke may activate bone marrow mononuclear cells to enhance recovery after stroke.	Bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells (MNCs) enhance recovery in rodent stroke models. Since stroke activates the bone marrow, there may be biological differences of autologous MNCs derived poststroke compared with the prestroke setting. We analyzed MNCs harvested from the same Long Evans rats 1 day before and 1 day after ischemic stroke or sham stroke. Stroke was induced by suture occlusion of the middle cerebral artery for 90 min. MNCs were characterized by flow cytometry to identify differences in the percentages of different cell subpopulations. MNCs were also placed in culture and cytokines were measured in the media. In separate experiments, Long Evans rats received 24 h after stroke an intracarotid injection of saline or autologous MNCs, prepared from the same animal, either 1 day before or 1 day after stroke. The rats were then followed on the cylinder and corner tests for 28 days. In poststroke MNCs compared with prestroke MNCs, there was a significant reduction in T and mesenchymal stem cells and a significant increase in CD34+ and natural killer cells. Postsham MNCs showed an elevation in CD11b and CD45R cells compared with presham MNCs. The concentrations of IL-10, IL-6, MCP-1, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and tumor necrosis factor- were significantly increased in poststroke MNCs compared with prestroke MNCs. Postsham MNCs showed a decrease in VEGF. Poststroke MNCs in comparison with prestroke MNCs led to a greater recovery on neurological testing and reduced lesion size. Autologous MNCs exert different biological responses when derived from the poststroke setting compared with normal animals.
Impaired emotion processing from vocal and facial cues in frontotemporal dementia compared to right hemisphere stroke.	To advance our understanding about the emotional and cognitive deficits of patients with frontotemporal dementia with behavioral variant (bvFTD), the current study examined comprehension and expression of emotions from prosodic and facial cues in a 66-year-old woman. The patient diagnosed with bvFTD is compared to six patients with acute right hemisphere stroke. Recognition of emotion from prosodic cues was assessed using an identification task in four conditions with decreasing verbal demands (neutral sentences, language-like pseudo sentences, monosyllables, and asyllabic vowel sounds). Repetition of utterances with emotional connotations and self-generated conversations were analyzed to measure relative changes in mean fundamental frequency (f0), f0 variance, speech rate, and intensity along with the facial musculature pattern. The patient showed a marked deficit in identifying emotions in all four prosody conditions; and she did not show much variation in modulating mean f0, f0 variance, speech rate and intensity for all emotion categories when compared to neutral utterances. In addition, this patient demonstrated little to no facial expressions during emotionally provoking tasks, but demonstrated no difficulty recognizing emotions from facial expressions or verbal scenarios. Results show that the patient seems to have selective impairment in recognition of emotions from prosody and expression of emotions using both prosodic and facial features. Impaired processing of emotional prosody and facial expressions could be important for detecting bvFTD with greater right hemisphere atrophy. 
Effect of acupuncture therapy for postponing Wallerian degeneration of cerebral infarction as shown by diffusion tensor imaging.	One aim of this study was to investigate the effects of acupuncture on cerebral function of patients with acute cerebral infarction. Another goal was to evaluate the relationship between acupuncture treatment and motor recovery patients with stroke and to provide a foundation for using acupuncture therapy for such patients.
Combined two-photon laser-scanning microscopy and spectral microCT X-ray imaging to characterize the cellular signature and evolution of microstroke foci.	Occlusive brain ischemia and micro-strokes are the most frequent brain pathologies, particularly in older patients and a major cause of dementia. Currently, we are missing appropriate methodology to study micro-strokes in experimental animals. In vivo two-photon laser-scanning microscopy (2P-LSM) and transgenic mouse models expressing cell type specific reporters have been used to examine ischemia-related insults, e.g. perturbations of neuronal process morphology and local blood flow in the MCAO - middle cerebral artery occlusion-model. Glia and pericytes can be visualized by selective fluorescent protein expression, e.g. astrocytes by their cyan-fluorescent ECFP, pericytes by red-fluorescent tdtomato and microglia by green fluorescent EGFP expression. In these mice, the breakdown of the blood brain barrier and the immediate as well as long-term cellular responses can be monitored. A new prototype of microCT incorporating a fast X-ray XPAD3 camera has been recently set up to allow cerebral angiography at high sampling rate. Preliminary data indicate that it is useful to monitor blood perfusion disturbance (i.e. lateralization) in the brain of tumor-bearing mice following retro-orbital injection of iodinated contrast agent. We expect this technology to be adequate to assess in real time the impact of acute stroke models on brain blood perfusion. By localizing perfusion anomalies, we will evaluate the extent of non-perfused areas and correlate these observations with subsequent behavioral deficits, and with local changes in myelin content in white matter tracks. The spectral properties of the XPAD3 detector moreover allow for the simultaneous identification and localization of several contrast agents opening the way to whole body multicolor imaging of vessels and inflammatory cells in the context of microstrokes.
Magnetic resonance imaging and fluorescence labeling of clinical-grade mesenchymal stem cells without impacting their phenotype: study in a rat model of stroke.	Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) have strong potential for cell therapy after stroke. Tracking stem cells in vivo following a graft can provide insight into many issues regarding optimal route and/or dosing. hMSCs were labeled for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and histology with micrometer-sized superparamagnetic iron oxides (M-SPIOs) that contained a fluorophore. We assessed whether M-SPIO labeling obtained without the use of a transfection agent induced any cell damage in clinical-grade hMSCs and whether it may be useful for in vivo MRI studies after stroke. M-SPIOs provided efficient intracellular hMSC labeling and did not modify cell viability, phenotype, or in vitro differentiation capacity. Following grafting in a rat model of stroke, labeled hMSCs could be detected using both in vivo MRI and fluorescent microscopy until 4 weeks following transplantation. However, whereas good label stability and unaffected hMSC viability were observed in vitro, grafted hMSCs may die and release iron particles in vivo.
A systematic review of cerebral hemodynamic responses to neural activation following stroke.	The aim of this study was to systematically review CBF studies, assess their methodological quality, and identify trends in the association between task-related brain activation patterns and CBF changes in ischemic stroke (IS) patients. We searched the MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, and Web of Sciences databases for studies of functional recovery with quantification of CBF responses to brain activation paradigms after IS. Titles, abstracts and full text of articles were scrutinised according to pre-defined selection criteria. Two independent reviewers (AS, VH) undertook the methodological quality screening and data extraction of the included studies. Sixteen of the 1,521 identified studies were relevant. Studies showed weaknesses in key methodological criteria (e.g. population size, discussion of limitations), and only seven studies compared responses with a control population. Overall, there was no agreement between CBF responses in either the affected or unaffected hemisphere and prediction of post-IS recovery. Some studies have shown a higher CBF increase in the unaffected hemisphere when the affected hemisphere was stimulated compared to the healthy control responses. However, CBF responses in the affected hemisphere were inconsistent. Many post-IS CBF studies are of poor methodological quality, and do not demonstrate a consistent response post-IS or a relationship with recovery. Further longitudinal studies assessing the natural history of CBF responses to brain paradigms following IS should be undertaken to determine prognostic significance, and to inform future therapeutic strategies. 
Longitudinal effects of lesions on functional networks after stroke.	While ischemic stroke reflects focal damage determined by the affected vascular territory, clinical symptoms are often more complex and may be better explained by additional indirect effects of the focal lesion. Assumed to be structurally underpinned by anatomical connections, supporting evidence has been found using alterations in the functional connectivity of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data in both sensorimotor and attention networks. To assess the generalizability of this phenomenon in a stroke population with heterogeneous lesions, we investigated the distal effects of lesions on a global level. Longitudinal resting-state fMRI scans were acquired at three consecutive time points, beginning during the acute phase (days 1, 7, and 90 post-stroke) in 12 patients after ischemic stroke. We found a preferential functional change in affected networks (i.e., networks containing lesions changed more during recovery when compared with unaffected networks). This change in connectivity was significantly correlated with clinical changes assessed with the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale. Our results provide evidence that the functional architecture of large-scale networks is critical to understanding the clinical effect and trajectory of post-stroke recovery. 
Lethal fetal stroke in utero.	Fetal intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) in utero is a rare complication of pregnancy associated with subsequent neurological sequelae or fetal death.
Transcatheter left atrial appendage occlusion.	Occlusion of the left atrial appendage (LAA) may reduce the risk of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Trials comparing LAA occlusion to warfarin anticoagulation in patients with nonvalvular AF showed a reduction in hemorrhagic stroke, although an increase in safety events due to procedural complications. Long-term follow-up suggests possible superiority of LAA occlusion due to fewer strokes and bleeding events. The superior dosing and safety profiles of the novel oral anticoagulants raise the accepted threshold for safety and efficacy of LAA occlusion procedures, and underscore the need for randomized studies comparing LAA occlusion with these newer anticoagulants.
Systemic administration of exosomes released from mesenchymal stromal cells promote functional recovery and neurovascular plasticity after stroke in rats.	Here, for the first time, we test a novel hypothesis that systemic treatment of stroke with exosomes derived from multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) promote neurovascular remodeling and functional recovery after stroke in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were subjected to 2hours of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) followed by tail vein injection of 100g protein from MSC exosome precipitates or an equal volume of vehicle phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) (n=6/group) 24hours later. Animals were killed at 28 days after stroke and histopathology and immunohistochemistry were employed to identify neurite remodeling, neurogenesis, and angiogenesis. Systemic administration of MSC-generated exosomes significantly improved functional recovery in stroke rats compared with PBS-treated controls. Axonal density and synaptophysin-positive areas were significantly increased along the ischemic boundary zone of the cortex and striatum in MCAo rats treated with exosomes compared with PBS control. Exosome treatment significantly increased the number of newly formed doublecortin (a marker of neuroblasts) and von Willebrand factor (a marker of endothelial cells) cells. Our results suggest that intravenous administration of cell-free MSC-generated exosomes post stroke improves functional recovery and enhances neurite remodeling, neurogenesis, and angiogenesis and represents a novel treatment for stroke. 
Subcutaneous daidzein administration enhances recovery of skilled ladder rung walking performance following stroke in rats.	Stroke is a devastating event which can result in permanent disability. Due to the lack of treatments available for use after stroke, compounds which work to limit cell loss, reduce behavioral deficits, and enhance recovery of function are needed. The isoflavone daidzein has been demonstrated to be neuroprotective when fed to rats beginning prior to stroke. Herein, we tested whether subcutaneous delivery of daidzein beginning at the time of stroke reduced injury and/or enhanced functional recovery over 14 days after stroke. Baseline performance on the skilled ladder rung walking task was recorded immediately before stroke (Day 0). Rats then underwent a unilateral permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion and received a subcutaneous minipump containing either daidzein dissolved in vehicle or vehicle alone. Performance on the skilled ladder rung walking task was recorded again on Day +3, Day +7, and Day +14 post-stroke. Rats were then euthanized and brains were collected for lesion volume analysis. The numbers of slight and deep forelimb slips on the task were recorded for 3 trials for each rat per day. Rats treated with daidzein exhibited fewer deep slips over the course of the experiment than rats which received only vehicle (p<0.05). No difference was detected in total forelimb slips or slight slips (p>0.05). Lesion volume was not different between groups (p>0.05). No differences were found in weight between groups during the study (p>0.05). 
Cerebral lesions on magnetic resonance imaging correlate with preoperative neurological status in neonates undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.	To determine the prevalence, spectrum and course of cerebral lesions in neonates with congenital heart disease (CHD) undergoing full flow cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to examine the correlation between cerebral lesions and clinical neurological abnormalities.
Basal ganglia plus insula damage yields stronger disruption of smoking addiction than basal ganglia damage alone.	The main objective of this study was to elucidate the importance of the basal ganglia (BG) and insula (INS) for nicotine addiction and smoking behavior.
Conditional ablation of neuroprogenitor cells in adult mice impedes recovery of poststroke cognitive function and reduces synaptic connectivity in the perforant pathway.	The causal relationship between neurogenesis and the recovery of poststroke cognitive function has not been properly explored. The current study aimed to determine whether depleting neuroprogenitor cells (NPCs) affects poststroke functional outcome in nestin--HSV-TK-EGFP transgenic mice, in which the expression of a truncated viral thymidine kinase gene and EGFP was restricted to nestin-expressing NPCs. Ganciclovir (GCV; 200 mg/kg/d) or saline was continuously administered via osmotic pumps in mice for 4 weeks before the induction of experimental stroke. Both baseline and stroke-induced type 1 and type 2 NPCs were conditionally ablated. GCV eliminated NPCs in a duration-dependent fashion, but it did not attenuate the genesis of astroglia or oligodendrocytes in the peri-infarct cortex, nor did it affect infarct size or cerebral blood reperfusion after stroke. Transgenic stroke mice given GCV displayed impaired spatial learning and memory in the Barnes maze test compared with saline control or wild-type stroke mice given GCV, suggesting a contributing role of stroke-induced neurogenesis in the recovery of cognitive function. However, there was no significant difference in poststroke motor function between transgenic mice treated with GCV and those treated with vehicle, despite a significant ablation of NPCs in the subventricular zone of the former. Furthermore, nestin--HSV-TK-EGFP mice treated with GCV had fewer retrogradely labeled neurons in the entorhinal cortex (EC) when injected with the polysynaptic viral marker PRV614 in the dentate gyrus (DG), suggesting that there might be reduced synaptic connectivity between the DG and EC following ablation of NPCs, which may contribute to impaired poststroke memory function. 
Neurovascular protection by post-ischemic intravenous injections of the lipoxin A4 receptor agonist, BML-111, in a rat model of ischemic stroke.	Resolution of inflammation is an emerging new strategy to reduce damage following ischemic stroke. Lipoxin A4 (LXA4 ) is an anti-inflammatory, pro-resolution lipid mediator with high affinity binding to ALX, the lipoxin A4 receptor. Since LXA4 is rapidly inactivated, potent analogs have been created, including the ALX agonist BML-111. We hypothesized that post-ischemic intravenous administration of BML-111 would provide protection to the neurovascular unit and reduce neuroinflammation in a rat stroke model. Animals were subjected to 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and BML-111 was injected 100 min and 24 h after stroke onset and animals euthanized at 48 h. Post-ischemic treatment with BML-111 significantly reduced infarct size, decreased vasogenic edema, protected against blood-brain barrier disruption, and reduced hemorrhagic transformation. Matrix metalloproteinase-9 and matrix metalloproteinase-3 were significantly reduced following BML-111 treatment. Administration of BML-111 dramatically decreased microglial activation, as seen with CD68, and neutrophil infiltration and recruitment, as assessed by levels of myeloperoxidase and intracellular adhesion molecule-1. The tight junction protein zona occludens-1 was protected from degradation following treatment with BML-111. These results indicate that post-ischemic activation of ALX has pro-resolution effects that limit the inflammatory damage in the cerebral cortex and helps maintain blood-brain barrier integrity after ischemic stroke.
Activation of hepatic inflammatory pathways by catecholamines is associated with hepatic insulin resistance in male ischemic stroke rats.	Patients who experience acute ischemic stroke may develop hyperglycemia, even in the absence of diabetes. In the current study we determined the effects of acute stroke on hepatic insulin signaling, TNF- expression, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, the activities of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), inhibitor B kinase  (IKK-), and nuclear factor-B (NF-B) pathways. Rats with cerebral ischemia developed higher blood glucose, and insulin levels, and insulin resistance index, as well as hepatic gluconeogenic enzyme expression compared with the sham-treated group. The hepatic TNF- mRNA and protein levels were elevated in stroke rats in association with increased ER stress, phosphorylation of JNK1/2 and IKK- proteins, IB/NF-B signaling, and phosphorylation of insulin receptor-1 (IRS-1) at serine residue. The basal and insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1 and AKT proteins was reduced. In addition, acute stroke increased circulating catecholamines in association with hepatic adrenergic signaling activation. After administration of a nonselective -adrenergic receptor blocker (propranolol) before induction of cerebral ischemic injury, hepatic adrenergic transduction, TNF- expression, ER stress, and the activation of the JNK1/2, IKK-, and NF-B pathways, and serine phosphorylation of IRS-1 were all attenuated. In contrast, the phosphorylated IRS-1 at tyrosine site and AKT levels were partially restored with improved poststroke hyperglycemia and insulin resistance index. These results suggest that acute ischemic stroke can activate proinflammatory pathways in the liver by the catecholamines and is associated with the development of hepatic insulin resistance. 
PRAS40 plays a pivotal role in protecting against stroke by linking the Akt and mTOR pathways.	The proline-rich Akt substrate of 40kDa (PRAS40) protein is not only a substrate of the protein kinase Akt but also a component of the mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1), thus it links the Akt and the mTOR pathways. We investigated the potential protective role of PRAS40 in cerebral ischemia and its underlying mechanisms by using rats with lentiviral over-expression of PRAS40 and mice with PRAS40 gene knockout (PRAS40 KO). Our results show that gene transfer of PRAS40 reduced infarction size in rats by promoting phosphorylation of Akt, FKHR (FOXO1), PRAS40, and mTOR. In contrast, PRAS40 KO increased infarction size. Although the PRAS40 KO under normal condition did not alter baseline levels of phosphorylated proteins in the Akt and mTOR pathways, PRAS40 KO that underwent stroke exhibited reduced protein levels of p-S6K and p-S6 in the mTOR pathway but not p-Akt, or p-PTEN in the Akt pathway. Furthermore, co-immunoprecipitation suggests that there were less interactive effects between Akt and mTOR in the PRAS40 KO. In conclusion, PRAS40 appears to reduce brain injury by converting cell signaling from Akt to mTOR. 
The effect of brain lesions on sound localization in complex acoustic environments.	Localizing sound sources of interest in cluttered acoustic environments--as in the 'cocktail-party' situation--is one of the most demanding challenges to the human auditory system in everyday life. In this study, stroke patients' ability to localize acoustic targets in a single-source and in a multi-source setup in the free sound field were directly compared. Subsequent voxel-based lesion-behaviour mapping analyses were computed to uncover the brain areas associated with a deficit in localization in the presence of multiple distracter sound sources rather than localization of individually presented sound sources. Analyses revealed a fundamental role of the right planum temporale in this task. The results from the left hemisphere were less straightforward, but suggested an involvement of inferior frontal and pre- and postcentral areas. These areas appear to be particularly involved in the spectrotemporal analyses crucial for effective segregation of multiple sound streams from various locations, beyond the currently known network for localization of isolated sound sources in otherwise silent surroundings.
Identification of subgroups with lower level of stroke knowledge using decision-tree analysis]	This study was performed to explore levels of stroke knowledge and identify subgroups with lower levels of stroke knowledge among adults in Korea.
