IL-10 transgenic mice present a defect in T cell development reminiscent of SCID patients.	To analyze the effect of IL-10 overexpressed by APCs as observed in some SCID patients, we have expressed the human IL-10 cDNA under the control of the murine MHC class II promoter in transgenic mice. Similar to SCID patients, these mice presented a defect in T cell maturation characterized by a rapid thymic aplasia that started after birth. The blockage in T cell maturation was strictly restricted to TCR-alpha beta T cells as the absolute number of thymic dendritic, TCR-gamma delta and NK1.1 T cells were equivalent to control littermates. Crossing IL-10 transgenic mice with TCR transgenic mice or treatment with staphylococcal enterotoxin B showed that the defect was not related to the impairment of positive or negative selection. However, repopulating of IL-10 transgenic mouse-fetal thymic organ culture with different stages of triple negative T cells isolated from control mice showed that the blockage occurred specifically at the pre-T cell stage and was reverted by treatment with blocking anti-IL-10 mAbs. These results demonstrate that IL-10 regulates T cell maturation and that dysregulation of IL-10 expression can lead to severe T cell immunodeficiency.
Regulation of T-cell interaction with fibronectin by transforming growth factor-beta is associated with altered Pyk2 phosphorylation.	Although the involvement of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in inflammatory reactions has been extensively studied, its mode of action in the context of the extracellular matrix (ECM) is still not fully understood. We undertook this study in an attempt to reveal the putative roles of TGF-beta in T-cell adhesion and migration. We found that a 60-min treatment of T cells with TGF-beta regulates T-cell adhesion to fibronectin (FN), a prototype cell adhesion protein of the ECM, depending on the presence of other activators. At 5 pg/ml to 1 ng/ml, TGF-beta alone induced T-cell adhesion to FN in an integrin alpha4/beta1- and integrin alpha5/beta1-dependent manner. TGF-beta also attenuated T-cell migration on the stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1alpha gradients. These effects of TGF-beta were not accompanied by alteration in the expression of very-late activation antigen type 4 (VLA-4) and VLA-5, nor were they mediated by the cyclo-oxygenase pathway. The cellular mechanism underlying the adhesion-regulating activities of TGF-beta involves adhesion-associated cytoskeletal elements. TGF-beta induced the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase Pyk2, but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and this effect was markedly increased in the presence of immobilized FN, suggesting a collaborative role for FN-specific integrins. Indeed, TGF-beta-induced Pyk2 phosphorylation was inhibited by monoclonal antibodies against VLA-4, VLA-5 and CD29. Thus, TGF-beta, which may appear at extravascular sites during inflammation, affects the adhesion of T cells to ECM glycoproteins and their migration by its ability to differentially induce or inhibit the phosphorylation of Pyk2.
Preleukemic states: an experimental murine model for myelodysplastic human syndromes]	Using a model of experimental leukemia in mice, we have demonstrated that tumor development depends upon interactions between preleukemic cells and their microenvironment whose functions are altered. Cytokine injections inhibit tumor development by inducing a functional restoration of this environment. Human myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are marrow pathologies considered as preleukemic stages. As in murine leukemias, it is possible that marrow environment could play a key role in their evolution. We currently establish a model of human hematopoiesis in NOD/SCID mice grafted with human bone fragments. We hope that this model would allow to analyse the role of the marrow stromal cells in MDS and to establish treatments restoring their functions.
CD45 modulates galectin-1-induced T cell death: regulation by expression of core 2 O-glycans.	Galectin-1 induces death of immature thymocytes and activated T cells. Galectin-1 binds to T cell-surface glycoproteins CD45, CD43, and CD7, although the precise roles of each receptor in cell death are unknown. We have determined that CD45 can positively and negatively regulate galectin-1-induced T cell death, depending on the glycosylation status of the cells. CD45(+) BW5147 T cells lacking the core 2 beta-1,6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (C2GnT) were resistant to galectin-1 death. The inhibitory effect of CD45 in C2GnT(-) cells appeared to require the CD45 cytoplasmic domain, because Rev1.1 cells expressing only CD45 transmembrane and extracellular domains were susceptible to galectin-1 death. Moreover, treatment with the phosphotyrosine-phosphatase inhibitor potassium bisperoxo(1,10-phenanthroline)oxovanadate(V) enhanced galectin-1 susceptibility of CD45(+) T cell lines, but had no effect on the death of CD45(-) T cells, indicating that the CD45 inhibitory effect involved the phosphatase domain. Expression of the C2GnT in CD45(+) T cell lines rendered the cells susceptible to galectin-1, while expression of the C2GnT in CD45(-) cells had no effect on galectin-1 susceptibility. When CD45(+) T cells bound to galectin-1 on murine thymic stromal cells, only C2GnT(+) T cells underwent death. On C2GnT(+) cells, CD45 and galectin-1 co-localized in patches on membrane blebs while no segregation of CD45 was seen on C2GnT(-) T cells, suggesting that oligosaccharide-mediated clustering of CD45 facilitated galectin-1-induced cell death.
Blocking 4-1BB/4-1BB ligand interactions prevents herpetic stromal keratitis.	Herpetic stromal keratitis (HSK) is a chronic inflammatory process in corneal stroma that results from recurrent HSV type 1 infection. We used the murine model of HSK to demonstrate the importance of the interaction between an inducible T cell costimulatory receptor, 4-1BB, and its ligand, 4-1BB ligand (4-1BBL), in the development of this disease. In BALB/c mice, HSK ordinarily induced by infection with the RE strain of herpes was prevented by blocking 4-1BB/4-1BBL interaction, either by deleting 4-1BB (in mutant 4-1BB(-/-) mice) or by introducing mAbs against 4-1BBL. The majority of T cells infiltrating the infected corneas were 4-1BB(+) activated effector cells that expressed cell surface markers CD44, CD25, and/or CD62L, as well as chemokine receptors CCR1, CCR2, and CCR5, and a limited number of TCR Vbeta chains (Vbeta8.1/8.2, Vbeta8.3, Vbeta10b, and Vbeta5.1/5.2, in order of abundance). Analysis of cell surface phenotypes showed that the failure to develop HSK in the 4-1BB(-/-) mice was associated with a reduced expression of CD62L at the time of T cell migration into the corneal stroma.
Intestinal cryptopatch formation in mice requires lymphotoxin alpha and the lymphotoxin beta receptor.	Interactions between lymphotoxin (LT)alpha(1)beta(2) on inducer cells and the lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTbetaR) on stromal cells initiate development of lymph nodes and Peyer's patches. In this study, we assessed the contributions of LTalpha and LTbetaR to the development of cryptopatches (CP), aggregates of T cell precursors in the mouse small intestine. Mice genetically deficient in LTalpha or LTbetaR lacked CP. Bone marrow from LTalpha-deficient mice was unable to initiate development of CP or isolated lymphoid follicles (ILF) after transfer to CD132-null mice lacking CP and ILF. However, LTalpha-deficient bone marrow-derived cells contributed to CP formed in CD132-null mice receiving a mixture of wild-type and LTalpha-deficient bone marrow cells. Transfer of wild-type bone marrow into irradiated LTalpha-deficient mice resulted in reconstitution of both CP and ILF. However, the LT-dependent formation of CP was distinguished from the LT-dependent formation of ILF and Peyer's patches by not requiring the presence of an intact NF-kappaB-inducing kinase gene. CP but not ILF were present in the small intestine from NF-kappaB-inducing kinase-deficient alymphoplasia mice, indicating that the alternate NF-kappaB activation pathway required for other types of LTbetaR-dependent lymphoid organogenesis is dispensable for CP development. In addition, we identified VCAM-1(+) cells within both CP and ILF that are candidates for the stromal cells involved in receiving LT-dependent signals from the hemopoietic precursors recruited to CP. These findings demonstrate that interactions between cells expressing LTalpha(1)beta(2) and LTbetaR are a shared feature in the development of all small intestinal lymphoid aggregates.
Expression of interleukin-11 receptor alpha and interleukin-11 protein in the endometrium of normal fertile women and women with recurrent miscarriage.	Interleukin-11 (IL-11) is a member of the IL-6 family of cytokines. Previous studies have suggested that IL-11 may play a role in human endometrial function. In this study, we have used immunocytochemistry to compare endometrial IL-11Ralpha and IL-11 expression in precisely timed peri-implantation biopsies from 9 normal fertile women and 16 recurrent miscarriage (RM) women. Immunocytochemistry was semi-quantified by obtaining an H-score value, which showed increased expression of both IL-11 and IL-11Ralpha in epithelial cells compared to stromal cells in all biopsies. There was a significant (P<0.01) reduction in epithelial cell IL-11, but not stromal cell IL-11, expression in endometrium from RM women compared to normal fertile women. There were no significant differences in expression of IL-11Ralpha protein in both stromal and epithelial cells in endometrium from the two groups of women. This work shows the presence of IL-11 and IL-11Ralpha within the endometrium of RM women during the peri-implantation period. The decreased expression of IL-11 in epithelial endometrium in RM women suggests that this cytokine may play a role in preventing miscarriage.
A chemokine-dependent stromal induction mechanism for aberrant lymphocyte accumulation and compromised lymphatic return in rheumatoid arthritis.	According to the current model for tissue-specific homing, specificity is conferred by the selective recruitment of lymphocyte populations from peripheral blood, based on their expression of chemokine and adhesion receptors (endothelial selection). In this study, we provide evidence for an alternative stromal induction mechanism that operates in chronic inflammation. We show that the human rheumatoid synovial microenvironment directly induces functional inflammatory (CCR5 and CXCR3) and constitutive (CCR7 and CXCR4) chemokine receptors on infiltrating CD4(+) T cells. Expression of the corresponding inflammatory chemokine ligands (CCL5 and CXCL11) was confined to stromal areas in the synovium. However, expression of the constitutive ligands (CCL19 and CXCL12) was inappropriately high on both vascular and lymphatic endothelium, suggesting that the vascular to lymphatic chemokine gradient involved in lymphatic recirculation becomes subverted in the rheumatoid synovium. These results challenge the view that leukocyte trafficking is regulated solely by selective recruitment of pre-existing chemokine receptor-positive cells from peripheral blood, by providing an alternative explanation based on aberrant lymphocyte retention and compromised lymphatic return.
Ultrastructural changes in arteriovenous malformations after gamma knife surgery: an electron microscopic study.	The authors analyzed morphological alterations at the subcellular level by undertaking transmission electron microscopy in arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) after gamma knife surgery (GKS).
Contribution of stromal cells to the migration, function and retention of plasma cells in human spleen: potential roles of CXCL12, IL-6 and CD54.	Plasma cells (PC) localize to discrete areas of secondary lymphoid tissue and bone marrow (BM). The positioning of PC in different sites is believed to be regulated by chemokines and adhesion molecules expressed by accessory cells in the lymphoid tissue microenvironment. However, the mechanisms responsible for the positioning of PC within the red pulp (RP) of human spleen have not been elucidated. Therefore, we examined the contribution of human splenic stromal cells to the migration and function of human PC. Splenic PC expressed the chemokine receptor CXCR4 and responded to its ligand CXCL12. In contrast, PC lacked CXCR5 and CCR7, and consequently exhibited minimal migration towards CXCL13 and CCL21. Splenic stromal cells proved to be a rich source of CXCL12, and could induce the migration of human B cells. Furthermore, they supported Ig production by splenic PC mainly by secreting IL-6. Lastly, a striking difference between splenic and BM PC was the constitutive expression of CD11a by only splenic PC. Notably, splenic stromal cells expressed high levels of CD54, the counter-structure of CD11a, and splenic PC were positioned adjacent to stromal cells in the RP. Thus, we propose that stromal cells attract PC to the RP and contribute to their retention and function through the combined expression of CXCL12, CD54 and IL-6.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells are present in cervical carcinoma and become activated by human papillomavirus type 16 virus-like particles.	Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDC) play an important role in the innate immune response to viral infections through the secretion of high levels of IFNalpha. We investigated whether PDC play a role in Human Papillomavirus (HPV) associated cervical carcinoma.
A stromal address code defined by fibroblasts.	To navigate into and within tissues, leukocytes require guidance cues that enable them to recognize which tissues to enter and which to avoid. Such cues are partly provided at the time of extravasation from blood by an endothelial address code on the luminal surface of the vascular endothelium. Here, we review the evidence that fibroblasts help define an additional stromal address code that directs leukocyte behaviour within tissues. We examine how this stromal code regulates site-specific leukocyte accumulation, differentiation and survival in a variety of physiological stromal niches, and how the aberrant expression of components of this code in the wrong tissue at the wrong time contributes to the persistence of chronic inflammatory diseases.
Rapid destruction of the tumor microenvironment by CTLs recognizing cancer-specific antigens cross-presented by stromal cells.	A single tumor contains a heterogeneous population of cancer cells. Some cancer cells express antigens and are susceptible to specific CTLs. However, other cancer cells are antigen-loss variants (ALVs) that escape these CTLs because they express little or no antigen. Here, we show that antigen-specific T cells can eliminate ALVs when the parental population expresses a model gp33 antigen (KAVYNFATM) at a level sufficient to be locally cross-presented by the nonmalignant stromal cells. That is, the ALVs are eliminated as bystanders because the stroma is destroyed. ALVs escape bystander killing when the bone marrow-derived and/or non-bone marrow-derived stroma does not express the appropriate MHC or when the amount of antigen is too low for effective cross-presentation. The rapid destruction of the stroma, including bone marrow-derived as well as sessile components, and of the parental cancer cells, may be essential for the complete rejection of established tumors by preventing variant escape.
Basal cell carcinoma progression correlates with host immune response and stromal alterations: a histologic analysis.	Neoplastic progression is characterized in part by escape from immune surveillance and formation of growth-permissive stroma. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) can be subclassified into low- and high-risk types for local recurrence. To determine whether these types of BCC correlate with alterations in local host immune response and stroma and whether these changes follow stepwise histologic progression from low- to high-risk subtypes, we assessed the clinicopathologic features in 175 consecutive primary (nonrecurrent) BCC excision specimens. BCCs exhibited a significantly higher frequency of mixed rather than homogeneous growth patterns (76% vs. 24%, P=0.0001). Nodular (84%) was the most common pattern identified followed by superficial (77%), infiltrative (27%), morpheic (5%) and micronodular patterns (4%). Only superficial (12% of all BCC) and nodular (12%) patterns were identified in BCC with a homogeneous histologic phenotype. Micronodular and infiltrative-morpheic patterns were not identified together in mixed patterned BCCs, and these high-risk types were contiguous with nodular BCC. Superficial predominant BCC (major growth pattern) was significantly associated with trunk and extremity location (76%) and skin without solar elastosis (82%), whereas BCC harboring a nodular growth pattern component was significantly associated with a head and neck location (63%) and the presence of adjacent solar elastosis (all P< or =0.03). Significant correlations were identified for BCC subtypes with inflammatory and stromal alterations: superficial BCC with old regression and moderate to dense peritumoral lymphocytic infiltrates; high-risk types correlated with active regression; infiltrative and morpheic BCC with fibrosing tumor stroma; and micronodular BCC with loss of both host inflammatory and stromal tumor responses. Evaluating the theoretical histologic stepwise model of BCC progression (superficial-to-nodular-to-micronodular, or superficial-to-nodular-to-infiltrative-to-morpheic BCC types) revealed significant linear correlations with host response and alterations of tumor stroma (r=0.54, P=0.0001). BCC exhibit distinct epithelial-stromal-inflammatory patterns that correlate with BCC subtype and tumor progression. This ostensible pathway of diminishing host response and gain of permissive tissue environment highlights neoplastic evolution from low to high risk for local recurrence of BCC and implicates a histologic continuum reflecting dynamic host-BCC interactions.
Expression of haematopoietic stem cell markers, CD133 and CD34 on human corneal keratocytes.	To study the expression of CD133 and CD34 antigens on cultured human keratocytes over time.
Enrichment of osteogenic cell populations from rat bone marrow stroma.	The presence of multiple cell types in bone marrow and their varying proportions from isolation to isolation may count for the considerable variation in the outcome of different experiments. The presence of these multiple subpopulations suggests a need for a method that can purify the osteogenic component, i.e. osteoprogenitors, from other components. The availabilities of monoclonal antibodies recognizing subpopulations of osteoblasts are providing means for antibody-based methods. The cell surface antigens STRO-1, ALP and HOP-26 were used for cell sorting experiments with fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). These cell populations were analyzed on differential gene expression, cell proliferation and differentiation into the osteoblastic lineage. The oligo-microarray results showed that only the ALP positive cell population expressed genes of the extracellular matrix; like different collagens, ECM-1 and matrix protease MMP-14. The real-time polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) results showed that STRO-1 and ALP positive cells had an upregulation in expression of lipoprotein lipase, osteocalcin, and collagen type I. Integrin beta-3 was only upregulated for ALP positive cells, while for these cells downregulation occurred for the genes myosine, alkaline phosphatase and integrin beta-1. HOP-26 positive cells showed an upregulation in collagen type I compared to control group. The DNA analysis revealed that the cells of the control group and the HOP-26 positive cells showed a 5 times higher cell growth compared to the STRO-1 and ALP positive cells. The alkaline phosphatase activity showed no activity for the control group. The STRO-1 and ALP positive cells had a higher activity compared to the HOP-26 positive. The calcium measurements revealed only for the control group calcium at day 24. Based on the results of our study, we conclude that the FACS method had no negative effect on the proliferating as well as differentiating response of the cells. Further, we conclude that by using an antibody-based cell selection method, different cell populations with different mRNA expression profiles and different osteogenic characteristics can be obtained.
Stromal CD10 expression in invasive breast carcinoma correlates with poor prognosis, estrogen receptor negativity, and high grade.	CD10 is a zinc-dependent peptidase (metalloproteinase), which degrades a variety of bioactive peptides. Earlier studies suggested that CD10 expression in tumor stroma is associated with biological aggressiveness of the tumor. To date, only one study has addressed the clinical significance of stromal CD10 expression in invasive carcinoma of the breast. The aim of this confirmatory study is to evaluate stromal CD10 expression in breast carcinoma and to examine associations between CD10, clinicopathological variables, and patient outcome. Tissue microarrays, containing 438 cases of invasive breast carcinoma and 15 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ with 15 years median follow-up time, were assembled. CD10 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry and scored as negative, weak and strong. Nonparametric correlational tests, univariate and multivariate survival analyses were performed. Stromal CD10 was preferentially expressed in invasive compared to noninvasive breast cancers (P=0.003). There were correlations between stromal CD10 expression and higher tumor grade (P=0.01) and estrogen receptor (ER) negative status (P=0.002). There was no correlation between CD10 and lymph node status, tumor size, histological subtype, progesterone receptors, and Her2 status. Stromal CD 10 expression was associated with decreased long-term disease-specific and overall survival in the entire cohort (P<0.01), and in lymph node negative (P<0.05), but not lymph node positive subset of patients. It approached prognostic significance in multivariate analysis (P=0.06) when lymph node status, tumor size, ER and Her2 were considered in the same model; and was associated with a relative risk of death of 2.8, compared to relative risk of 2.4 for lymph node positive status. Thus, stromal CD10 expression in invasive carcinoma of the breast is associated with ER negativity, higher tumor grade and decreased survival and constitutes a potential prognostic marker and a target for development of novel therapies.
Expression of toll-like receptors 2, 3, 4, and 9 genes in the human endometrium during the menstrual cycle.	Innate immunity in the endometrium has fundamental significance for reproduction. Although toll-like receptors (TLRs) play central roles in innate immune responses, their expression in the human endometrium remains to be fully elucidated. We have examined the gene expression of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, and TLR9 in endometrial tissues by real-time quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization. The expression levels of the four genes in endometrial tissues varied in a similar pattern during the menstrual cycle; the levels were high in the perimenstrual period and low in the periovulatory period. Expression of the four genes was detected in both epithelial cells and stromal cells throughout the menstrual cycle. Expression levels were higher in epithelial cells for TLR3 and in stromal cells for TLR4, while they were comparable in epithelial cells and stromal cells for TLR2 and TLR9. These findings imply that differential spatio-temporal expression patterns of TLRs subserve proper innate immunity of the endometrium.
Pericyte coverage of abnormal blood vessels in myelofibrotic bone marrows.	Myelofibrotic bone marrow displays abnormal angiogenesis but the pathogenic mechanisms of this are poorly understood. Since pericyte abnormalities are described on solid tumor vessels we studied whether vessel morphology and pericyte coverage in bone marrow samples from patients with myelofibrosis differed from that in samples from controls.
Tumor stroma and regulation of cancer development.	Abstract In the past 25 years, a majority of cancer studies have focused on examining functional consequences of activating and/or inactivating mutations in critical genes implicated in cell cycle control. These studies have taught us a great deal about the functions of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes and the signaling pathways regulating cell proliferation and/or cell death. However, such studies have largely ignored the fact that cancers are heterogeneous cellular entities whose growth is dependent upon reciprocal interactions between genetically altered "initiated" cells and the dynamic microenvironment in which they live. This review highlights the aspects of cancer development that, like organogenesis during embryonic development and tissue repair in adult mammals, are regulated by interactions between epithelial cells, activated stromal cells, and soluble and insoluble components of the extracellular matrix.
Mesenchymal stromal cells: tissue engineers and immune response modulators.	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) show significant immune-suppressive properties both in vitro and in vivo. Based on their immune-stealth properties, allogeneic MSCs are used to treat several diseases, for example the injection of MSCs in infarcted heart tissue or their use in bone-cartilage regeneration. The most spectacular treatment was recently described. MSCs were able to down-regulate the severity of graft-versus-host disease, leading to an impressive 20 to 50% increase in the two-year survival of bone marrow transplantation patients. Here the current literature is reviewed to elucidate the different mechanisms involved in these two clinical treatment modalities of MSCs.
Organization of immunological memory by bone marrow stroma.	Immunological memory is a hallmark of the adaptive immune system. Plasma cells and memory B and T cells collectively provide protective immunity and effective secondary immune responses to invading pathogens. Here, we discuss how mesenchymal stromal cells regulate immunological memory by organizing defined numbers of dedicated survival niches for plasma cells and memory T cells in the bone marrow and also, to a lesser extent, in secondary lymphoid organs. An understanding of the biology of mesenchymal stromal cells and their interaction with cells of the immune system is key to fully understanding immunological memory.
Fibroblastic reticular cell infection by hemorrhagic fever viruses.	Viral hemorrhagic fevers (VHFs) often cause high mortality with high infectivity, multiorgan failure, shock and hemorrhagic diathesis. Fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs) within secondary lymphoid organs provide a supporting scaffold to T-lymphocyte areas. These cells regulate the movement of various immune cells and soluble molecules that promote T-lymphocyte homeostasis. We previously reported Ebola virus infection of FRCs, but ascribed little significance to this finding. Here, we studied infection of FRCs by Ebola, Marburg and Lassa viruses. We demonstrate that FRCs, or the extracellular 'conduit' of the fibroblastic reticulum of nonhuman primates, are targets of Ebola, Marburg and Lassa viruses. Furthermore, we observed that FRC damage correlates temporally and spatially with lymphocyte damage and that FRCs serve as nidi of fibrin deposition. In addition, we show that nonhuman primate FRCs express p75 NGF receptor and tissue transglutaminase. Our data suggest that viral infection of FRCs may be crucial to the immunological dysfunction and coagulopathy characteristic of VHFs. We further propose that p75 NGF receptor and tissue transglutaminase may be involved in FRC-associated dysfunction during the course of infection.
Mesenchymal stromal cells fail to prevent acute graft-versus-host disease and graft rejection after dog leukocyte antigen-haploidentical bone marrow transplantation.	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have been shown to have immunosuppressive effects in vitro. To test the hypothesis that these effects can be harnessed to prevent graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and graft rejection after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), we administered a combination of 3 different immortalized marrow-derived MSC lines (15-30 × 10⁶ MSCs/kg/day, 2-5 times/week) or third-party primary MSC (1.0 × 10⁶ MSCs/kg/day, 3 times/week) to canine recipients (n = 15) of dog leukocyte antigen-haploidentical marrow grafts prepared with 9.2 Gy of total body irradiation. Additional pharmacological immunosuppression was not given after HCT. Before their in vivo use, the MSC products were shown to suppress alloantigen-induced T cell proliferation in a dose-dependent, major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted, and cell contact-independent fashion in vitro. Among 14 evaluable dogs, 7 (50%) rejected their grafts and 7 engrafted, with ensuing rapidly fatal acute GVHD (50%). These observations were not statistically different from outcomes obtained with historical controls (n = 11) not given MSC infusions (P = .69). Thus, survival curves for MSC-treated dogs and controls were virtually superimposable (median survival, 18 vs 15 days, respectively). Finally, outcomes of dogs given primary MSCs (n = 3) did not appear to be different from those given clonal MSCs (n = 12). In conclusion, our data fail to demonstrate MSC-mediated protection against GVHD and allograft rejection in this model.
Swine adipose stromal cells loaded with recombinant bovine herpesvirus 4 virions expressing a foreign antigen induce potent humoral immune responses in pigs.	Increasingly effective vaccination strategies are needed to counteract the high incidence of contagious diseases associated with intensive swine breeding. Recombinant viral vaccines are a promising new avenue in this direction. Key features of viral vectors suitable for immunoprophylaxis are safety, ease of manipulation and the ability to replicate in a variety of hosts. Most of the above requirements are met by bovine herpesvirus 4 (BoHV-4), a non-pathogenic dsDNA virus capable of infecting a broad range of cell types in vitro. Here we report the results of an exploratory study using an engineered BoHV-4 virus (eBoHV-4) expressing two unrelated glycoprotein antigens from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), to assess the potential of recombinant BoHV-4 as a self-adjuvanted immunogen in pigs. Free eBoHV-4 virions and virions preloaded into homologous swine adipose-derived stromal cells (SADSC) were tested. Neither virus formulation elicited neutralizing anti-BoHV-4 antibodies, nor any disease symptom, yet both induced specific immune responses against the heterologous antigens. However, a much earlier (18 vs 28 days post-infection) and more robust neutralizing response against BVDV and BoHV-1 viruses was elicited by eBoHV-4-preinfected SADSCs compared to free virions. The data validate BoHV-4 as a safe and effective heterologous antigen carrier/producer and identify SADSCs as helpful tools for the formulation of increasingly efficacious recombinant immunogens for pig vaccination.
Thymic stromal lymphopoietin interferes with airway tolerance by suppressing the generation of antigen-specific regulatory T cells.	Thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is an essential cytokine for the initiation and development of allergic inflammation. In this study, we have investigated the role of TSLP in the breakdown of immune tolerance and generation of inducible regulatory T cells (iTregs). Our results demonstrated that TSLP diverted airway tolerance against OVA to Th2 sensitization and inhibited the generation of OVA-specific iTregs. TSLP exerted a direct inhibitory effect on both human and mouse iTreg development in vitro. Low doses of TSLP were capable of inhibiting iTreg induction without significantly promoting Th2 development, indicating that these two functions of TSLP are separable. Moreover, the TSLP-mediated inhibition of iTreg generation was only partially dependent on IL-4 and Stat6, and was effective when TSLP was present for the first 24 h of T cell activation. These results define a novel role for TSLP in regulating the balance of airway tolerance and allergic inflammation.
CXCL12 secretion by bone marrow stromal cells is dependent on cell contact and mediated by connexin-43 and connexin-45 gap junctions.	The chemokine CXCL12 is essential for the function of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Here we report that secretion of functional CXCL12 from human bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) was a cell contact-dependent event mediated by connexin-43 (Cx43) and Cx45 gap junctions. Inhibition of connexin gap junctions impaired the secretion of CXCL12 and homing of leukocytes to mouse bone marrow. Purified human CD34(+) progenitor cells did not adhere to noncontacting BMSCs, which led to a much smaller pool of immature cells. Calcium conduction activated signaling by cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) and induced CXCL12 secretion mediated by the GTPase RalA. Cx43 and Cx45 additionally controlled Cxcl12 transcription by regulating the nuclear localization of the transcription factor Sp1. We suggest that BMSCs form a dynamic syncytium via connexin gap junctions that regulates CXC12 secretion and the homeostasis of hematopoietic stem cells.
Endometrial stromal cells and immune cell populations within lymph nodes in a nonhuman primate model of endometriosis.	Mounting evidence suggests that immunological responses may be altered in endometriosis. The baboon (Papio anubis) is generally considered the best model of endometriosis pathogenesis. The objective of the current study was to investigate for the first time immunological changes within uterine and peritoneal draining lymph nodes in a nonhuman primate baboon model of endometriosis. Paraffin-embedded femoral lymph nodes were obtained from 22 normally cycling female baboons (induced endometriosis n = 11; control n = 11). Immunohistochemical staining was performed with antibodies for endometrial stromal cells, T cells, immature and mature dendritic cells, and B cells. Lymph nodes were evaluated using an automated cellular imaging system. Endometrial stromal cells were significantly increased in lymph nodes from animals with induced endometriosis, compared to control animals (P = .033). In animals with induced endometriosis, some lymph node immune cell populations including T cells, dendritic cells and B cells were increased, suggesting an efficient early response or peritoneal drainage.
Thymic stromal lymphopoietin is produced by dendritic cells.	Thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) is a type 1 cytokine that contributes to lymphopoiesis and the development of asthma and atopic dermatitis. TSLP acts on multiple lineages, including dendritic cells (DCs), T cells, NKT cells, eosinophils, and mast cells, mediating proliferation and survival and linking innate and adaptive immune responses. TSLP is produced by a range of cells, including epithelial cells, fibroblasts, stromal cells, and keratinocytes. DCs are important primary targets of TSLP, and we unexpectedly demonstrated that DCs also produce TSLP in response to TLR stimulation and that this is augmented by IL-4. Moreover, we demonstrated that when mice were challenged with house dust mite extract, lung CD11c(+) DCs expressed TSLP mRNA at an even higher level than did epithelial cells. These data suggested that DCs not only respond to TSLP but also are a source of TSLP during pathogen and/or allergen encounter.
CD28 expressed on malignant plasma cells induces a prosurvival and immunosuppressive microenvironment.	Interactions between the malignant plasma cells of multiple myeloma and stromal cells within the bone marrow microenvironment are essential for myeloma cell survival, mirroring the same dependence of normal bone marrow-resident long-lived plasma cells on specific marrow niches. These interactions directly transduce prosurvival signals to the myeloma cells and also induce niche production of supportive soluble factors. However, despite their central importance, the specific molecular and cellular components involved remain poorly characterized. We now report that the prototypic T cell costimulatory receptor CD28 is overexpressed on myeloma cells during disease progression and in the poor-prognosis subgroups and plays a previously unrecognized role as a two-way molecular bridge to support myeloid stromal cells in the microenvironment. Engagement by CD28 to its ligand CD80/CD86 on stromal dendritic cell directly transduces a prosurvival signal to myeloma cell, protecting it against chemotherapy and growth factor withdrawal-induced death. Simultaneously, CD28-mediated ligation of CD80/CD86 induces the stromal dendritic cell to produce the prosurvival cytokine IL-6 (involving novel cross-talk with the Notch pathway) and the immunosuppressive enzyme IDO. These findings identify CD28 and CD80/CD86 as important molecular components of the interaction between myeloma cells and the bone marrow microenvironment, point to similar interaction for normal plasma cells, and suggest novel therapeutic strategies to target malignant and pathogenic (e.g., in allergy and autoimmunity) plasma cells.
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation with umbilical cord multipotent stromal cell infusion for the treatment of aplastic anemia--a single-center experience.	The purpose of this study was to observe the outcome of co-transfusion of umbilical cord multipotent stromal cells (UC-MSC) and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells in the treatment of heavily-transfused patients with severe aplastic anemia.
Tumor-associated macrophages and stromal TNF-α regulate collagen structure in a breast tumor model as visualized by second harmonic generation.	Collagen fibers can be imaged with second harmonic generation (SHG) and are associated with efficient tumor cell locomotion. Preferential locomotion along these fibers correlates with a more aggressively metastatic phenotype, and changes in SHG emission properties accompany changes in metastatic outcome. We therefore attempted to elucidate the cellular and molecular machinery that influences SHG in order to understand how the microstructure of tumor collagen fibers is regulated. By quantifying SHG and immunofluorescence (IF) from tumors grown in mice with and without stromal tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and in the presence or absence of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), we determined that depletion of TAMs alters tumor collagen fibrillar microstructure as quantified by SHG and IF. Furthermore, we determined that abrogation of TNF-α expression by tumor stromal cells also alters fibrillar microstructure and that subsequent depletion of TAMs has no further effect. In each case, metastatic burden correlated with optical readouts of collagen microstructure. Our results implicate TAMs and stromal TNF-α as regulators of breast tumor collagen microstructure and suggest that this regulation plays a role in tumor metastasis. Furthermore, these results indicate that quantification of SHG represents a useful strategy for evaluating the cells and molecular pathways responsible for manipulating fibrillar collagen in breast tumor models.
Innate lymphoid cells integrate stromal and immunological signals to enhance antibody production by splenic marginal zone B cells.	Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) regulate stromal cells, epithelial cells and cells of the immune system, but their effect on B cells remains unclear. Here we identified RORγt(+) ILCs near the marginal zone (MZ), a splenic compartment that contains innate-like B cells highly responsive to circulating T cell-independent (TI) antigens. Splenic ILCs established bidirectional crosstalk with MAdCAM-1(+) marginal reticular cells by providing tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) and lymphotoxin, and they stimulated MZ B cells via B cell-activation factor (BAFF), the ligand of the costimulatory receptor CD40 (CD40L) and the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1). Splenic ILCs further helped MZ B cells and their plasma-cell progeny by coopting neutrophils through release of the cytokine GM-CSF. Consequently, depletion of ILCs impaired both pre- and post-immune TI antibody responses. Thus, ILCs integrate stromal and myeloid signals to orchestrate innate-like antibody production at the interface between the immune system and circulatory system. 
Multiple CD11c+ cells collaboratively express IL-1β to modulate stromal vascular endothelial growth factor and lymph node vascular-stromal growth.	Lymphadenopathy in autoimmune and other lymphoproliferative diseases is in part characterized by immunoblasts and vascular proliferation. The lymph node vasculature, along with the nonvascular stromal compartment, supports lymphocyte function, and targeting vascular-stromal expansion in inflamed nodes may modulate lymphocyte function in disease. CD11c(+) cells are essential for vascular-stromal proliferation and the upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) needed for vascular proliferation. However, targetable CD11c(+) cell-derived molecular mediators, the identity of relevant CD11c(+) cells, and whether CD11c(+) cells directly stimulate VEGF-expressing stromal cells are poorly understood. In this study we show that CD11c(+) CD11b(+) CCR2-dependent monocytes and CCR7-dependent dendritic cells express IL-1β. IL-1β blockade, IL-1β deficiency in radiosensitive cells, and CCR2/CCR7 double deficiency but not single deficiency all attenuate immunization-induced vascular-stromal proliferation. gp38(+) stromal fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs) that express VEGF are enriched for Thy1(+) cells and partially overlap with CCL21-expressing FRCs, and FRC VEGF is attenuated with IL-1β deficiency or blockade. IL-1β localizes to the outer borders of the T zone, where VEGF-expressing cells are also enriched. Ex vivo, CD11b(+) cells enriched for IL-1β(+) cells can directly induce cultured gp38(+)Thy1(+) FRCs to upregulate VEGF. Taken together, these results suggest a mechanism whereby multiple recruited CD11c(+) populations express IL-1β and directly modulate FRC function to help promote the initiation of vascular-stromal growth in stimulated lymph nodes. These data provide new insight into how CD11c(+) cells regulate the lymph node vascular-stromal compartment, add to the evolving understanding of functional stromal subsets, and suggest a possible utility for IL-1β blockade in preventing inflammatory lymph node growth. 
Thymocyte-stromal-cell interactions and T-cell selection.	Several key advances have been made since 1992, notably in teh area of signalling in early T-cell development and in the regulation of T-cell selection. Future goals include a fuller understanding of the roles of stromal cells and matrix molecules in T-cell development and further elucidation of the diverse signalling pathways involved. The ultimate challenge will be to generate T cells from stem cells under conditions where all of the developmental cues that earmark thymopoiesis are defined.
The role of integrins in adhesion of decidual NK cells to extracellular matrix and decidual stromal cells.	At the time of implantation, the decidua is infiltrated by a unique population of NK cells with large granular lymphocyte morphology, which are thought to influence placental trophoblast invasion and differentiation. The mechanisms used by these cells to migrate within decidua are not known, but in other biological processes such as wound healing and tumor invasion cell-matrix interactions are important. These interactions are mediated by specific receptors, mostly belonging to the family of integrins. Decidual NK cells are observed to bind to type IV collagen and fibronectin, but not to laminin. Adhesion to collagen was inhibited with an anti-alpha 1 integrin subunit mAb, whereas adhesion to fibronectin was blocked with anti-alpha 4, -alpha 5, and -beta 1 integrin subunit mAbs. Binding of decidual NK cells to decidual stromal cells was partially blocked with mAbs to the alpha 4 and alpha 5 integrin subunits. These results provide insight into the possible mechanisms utilized by decidual NK cells for migration and retention within the pregnant uterine mucosa.
Expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) on cultured human endometrial stromal cells and its role in the interaction with natural killers.	Recent evidence emphasizes the role of natural killer cells (NKs) as potential effectors of peritoneal immune surveillance directed against the outgrowth of endometrial cells, refluxed with menstrual debris, in ectopic sites. This NK-mediated cytotoxicity toward autologous endometrial antigens seems to be significantly decreased in endometriosis patients.
Differential expression of Mtv loci in MHC class II-positive thymic stromal cells.	Despite the important role played by endogenous superantigen in shaping the T cell repertoire, little is known concerning the expression of the different Mtv loci in cells of the thymic microenvironment involved in repertoire selection. Here we have examined the expression of a panel of Mtv Ags by different MHC class II+ stromal cel types using reverse transcriptase-PCR and monitored the effects of these stromal cells on the development of cells expressing Mtv-reactive TCR V beta elements in closed thymic organ culture systems. Although Mtv-6 and Mtv-8/9 mRNAs are expressed in normal thymus lobe organ cultures, no Mtv expression was detected in MHC class II+ thymic epithelial cells. In contrast a striking pattern of differential expression was observed in dendritic cells of thymic origin that were devoid of Mtv-8/9 but expressed readily detectable levels of Mtv-6. This pattern of Mtv gene expression correlated well with TCR V beta repertoire development. TCRV beta 3+ T cells, normally deleted in response to Mtv-6, were virtually absent from the single positive thymocyte compartment in thymic organ cultures where dendritic cells are present but were present in reaggregate cultures where the only MHC class II-positive cells were thymic epithelial cells. On the other hand, V beta 11+ T-cells were not deleted in organ cultures, possibly reflecting the absence of Mtv-8/9 expression in dendritic cells. Our studies suggest that the influence Mtvs have on shaping the T cell repertoire not only depends on their expression within a particular strain but also on their tissue specific expression in relation to MHC class II, which is necessary for their presentation.
Interleukin-11 mRNA stabilization in phorbol ester-stimulated primate bone marrow stromal cells.	12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) stimulation of PU-34 cells, a primate bone marrow stromal cell line, resulted in a prolonged elevation of interleukin-11 (IL-11) mRNA, which can be inhibited by protein synthesis inhibitors. Nuclear run-on assays and actinomycin D experiments demonstrated that the up-regulation of IL-11 gene expression is mainly controlled at the posttranscriptional level through the protein kinase C (PKC) pathway. Inhibition of PKC activity by calphostin C generated an IL-11 mRNA degradation intermediate in TPA-stimulated PU-34 cells. This intermediate retains the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) and coding region of the IL-11 mRNA but has lost the poly(A) tail and the 3'UTR. The mechanisms underlying IL-11 mRNA stabilization were further investigated by transfections with a variety of chimeric IL-11 constructs and deletion mutants. Two important observations were made from these transient expression experiments: (i) the same 3'UTR of IL-11 mRNA shown to confer instability in one chimeric transcript may not function as a destabilizer in another chimeric RNA, and (ii) the 5'UTR, coding region, and 3'UTR all contribute to IL-11 mRNA decay, and labile IL-11 deletion transcripts are not necessarily stabilized by TPA stimulation. Our study suggests that multiple regions within the IL-11 mRNA are involved in TPA-stimulated IL-11 mRNA stabilization, possibly through a unique RNA folding conformation involving interactions of various RNA sequences within the IL-11 mRNA molecule.
Expression of class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) and beta2-microglobulin is associated with decidualization of human endometrial stromal cells.	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules play a central role in the immune system through either presentation of endogenous antigen and activation of T lymphocytes or functional emergence of natural killer (NK) cells. Various types of immune cells are present in the human endometrium and are believed to be involved in reproductive function and/or immunological reaction. However, little is known about the expression status and function of HLA class I molecules in the human endometrium. We therefore examined mRNA expression of HLA class I. In addition, we analysed gene expression and localization of beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG), which is the non-variant chain of all HLA class I molecules. Compared with non-decidualized tissues, mRNA expression of both HLA class I and beta2-MG was significantly higher in decidualized endometria in the late secretory phase, under progestin treatment and during early pregnancy. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that beta2-MG was localized in decidualized endometrial stromal cells, indicating that the distribution of beta2-MG is topologically correlated with that of CD56bright+ NK cells. In-vitro culture of human endometrial stromal cells demonstrated that HLA class I mRNA was induced during the decidualization by progesterone. Accordingly, the expression of HLA class I molecules is transcriptionally activated along with decidualization of human endometrial stromal cells, and may represent an immuno-endocrine function of the endometrium.
Immunophenotypic characterization of stromal cells in aspirated human bone marrow samples.	The presence of stromal cells was investigated in aspirated bone marrow prepared by the same method as that used for the initiation of human long-term bone marrow culture (hLTBMC). In previous studies, we performed immunocytochemical staining of cytocentrifuge cell preparations using a panel of antibodies with which we characterized stromal cell populations in hLTBMC. This approach allowed morphological as well as immunophenotypic assessment of cells of interest. Morphologically distinctive cell populations expressing vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) were observed to be present, but no cells expressing alpha-smooth muscle actin were found. Few macrophages were present, consistent with the origin of hLTBMC stroma-adherent macrophages from monocytes and their precursor cells rather than from mature macrophages among the culture-initiating cells. In the absence of double immunostaining, it was not possible to deduce whether CD34+ cells, which were present in varying numbers in the cytocentrifuge preparations, included stromal as well as primitive hematopoietic cells. In addition to single cells, multicellular tissue fragments containing a variety of stromal cell types were detected in many samples. Their presence raises the possibility that at least some components of hLTBMC stroma may arise by explant growth from complex tissue fragments containing vascular and fibroblastic elements. Overall, our results indicate that demonstration of a variety of stroma-associated antigens, in particular NGFR, provides a useful new tool for identifying stromal elements in aspirated bone marrow.
Antigenicity of fresh, cryopreserved, or liquid-medium-preserved human parathyroid adenomas]	We have studied the ability of the cryopreservation and culture techniques to reduce the antigenicity of human parathyroid tissue by suppressing HLA DR bearing cells. Antigenicity was studied with an immunoperoxidase technique applied on frozen sections. Antibody against HLA DR, CD1a, CD3, CD22, CD45RA, CD68 and H et Y antigens were used. In fresh parathyroid tissue, endothelial cells, histiocytes and interstitial dendritic cells expressed HLA DR antigens. Antigenicity of cryopreserved tissue were not altered. In cultured tissue, interstitial HLA DR bearing cells have disappeared but antigenicity of endothelial cells were not modified.
Deletion of bone marrow stromal cell antigen-1 (CD157) gene impaired systemic thymus independent-2 antigen-induced IgG3 and mucosal TD antigen-elicited IgA responses.	Bone marrow stromal cell Ag-1 (BST-1; CD157)-deficient mice were generated to examine the immunologic roles of the molecule in vivo. In BST-1(-/-) mice, the development of peritoneal B-1 cells was delayed, and CD38(low/-) B-lineage cells were increased in the bone marrow and spleen. Partial impairment of thymus-independent (TI-2) and thymus-dependent (TD) Ag-specific immune responses was noted in the systemic and mucosal compartments of BST-1(-/-) mice, respectively. Although serum Ig levels as well as TD and TI-1 Ag-specific systemic immune responses were normal, the TI-2 Ag-induced IgG3 response was selectively impaired. Oral immunization of BST-1(-/-) mice with cholera toxin, a potent TD Ag for the induction of IgA response, resulted in the poor production of Ag-specific Abs at the intestinal mucosa accompanied by the reduced number of Ag-specific IgA-producing cells in the lamina propria. These results indicate that BST-1 has roles in B cell development and Ab production in vivo.
