Circulating immune complexes in ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes]	The study aimed at determination of circulating immune complexes (CIC) levels in a serum of patients with ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes, isolation of the complexes and their antigen composition identification. Spectrophotometric assay, polyethylene glycol precipitation and SDS PAG electrophoresis were used. Comparing to controls, significantly elevated levels of both small and big CIC were detected in the serum of the patients with ischemic stroke, while in the patients with hemorrhage stroke only the level of small CIC was elevated. The antigen CIC composition was specific for each stroke form and for control group either. Being compared to literature data, the results obtained revealed a specificity of the antigen CIC composition in ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes.
IVIg therapy in brain inflammation: etiology-dependent differential effects on leucocyte recruitment.	Several studies have reported beneficial effects of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) in diseases of the neuroaxis. However, IVIg effects on leucocyte recruitment, a hallmark feature of autoimmunity and acute inflammation, remain largely unexplored. Using intravital microscopy, we studied the effects of IVIg on leucocyte recruitment in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a model of multiple sclerosis. In IVIg-treated mice, a significant decrease in recruitment (rolling and adhesion) was observed prior to and following disease onset, and this was concomitant with improved clinical score. Since much of the recruitment is dependent upon alpha4-integrin (ligand for VCAM-1) we used an in vitro flow chamber system and demonstrated a 60% decrease in alpha4-integrin-dependent leucocyte adhesion to immobilized VCAM-1. Finally, we used leucocytes from multiple sclerosis patients and demonstrated that IVIg treatment decreased recruitment by 60% on human endothelium. However, when we visualized the role of IVIg in a second model of brain inflammation, cerebral ischaemia-reperfusion, IVIg actually promoted the formation of platelet-leucocyte aggregates in post-ischaemic cerebral vessels. In conclusion, we report a new mechanism of action of IVIg through interference of alpha4-integrin-dependent leucocyte recruitment in both an animal model and human multiple sclerosis. We also report that IVIg will not be beneficial in all types of pro-adhesive states and may in fact be detrimental in a situation such as stroke.
Expression of Toll-like receptor 3 in the human cerebellar cortex in rabies, herpes simplex encephalitis, and other neurological diseases.	There is recent in vitro evidence that human neurons express the innate immune response receptor, Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR-3), and that expression is enhanced in viral infections. The authors examined the immunohistochemical expression of TLR-3 in the cerebellar cortex of postmortem human brains. Purkinje cells were found to express TLR-3 in all cases of rabies (4 of 4) and herpes simplex encephalitis (2 of 2) as well as in cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (1 of 2), stroke (1 of 2), and Alzheimer's disease (3 of 3). In cases of viral infection, direct viral infection was not necessary for enhanced neuronal TLR-3 expression, suggesting that soluble factors likely play an important role in inducing TLR-3 expression. In addition to neurons, occasional Bergmann glia expressed TLR-3 in some cases. This study has provided evidence that human brain neurons can express TLR-3 in vivo and suggests that neurons may play an important role in initiating an inflammatory reaction in a variety of neurological diseases.
An emerging role of mast cells in cerebral ischemia and hemorrhage.	Mast cells (MCs) are perivascularly located resident cells of hematopoietic origin, recognized as effectors in inflammation and immunity. Their subendothelial location at the boundary between the intravascular and extravascular milieus, and their ability to rapidly respond to blood- and tissue-borne stimuli via release of potent vasodilatatory, proteolytic, fibrinolytic, and proinflammatory mediators, render MCs with a unique status to act in the first-line defense in various pathologies. We review experimental evidence suggesting a role for MCs in the pathophysiology of brain ischemia and hemorrhage. In new-born rats, MCs contributed to brain damage in hypoxic-ischemic insults. In experimental cerebral ischemia/reperfusion, MCs regulated permeability of the blood-brain barrier, brain edema formation, and the intensity of local neutrophil infiltration. MCs were reported to play a role in the tissue plasminogen activator-mediated cerebral hemorrhages after experimental ischemic stroke, and to be involved in the expansion of hematoma and edema following intracerebral hemorrhage. Importantly, the MC-stabilizing drug cromoglycate inhibited MC-mediated adverse effects on brain pathology and improved survival of experimental animals. This brings us to a position to consider MC stabilization as a novel initial adjuvant therapy in the prevention of brain injuries in hypoxia-ischemia in new-borns, as well as in ischemic stroke and intracerebral hemorrhage in adults.
Inflammation in ischaemic brain injury: current advances and future perspectives.	1. Numerous studies have indicated that inflammation plays a key role in ischaemic brain injury. Brain ischaemia-reperfusion-induced inflammatory responses include increased microglial and astrocyte activity, increased production of cytokines, chemokines, adhesion molecules and metalloproteinases and the infiltration of monocytes and leucocytes into injured brain regions. 2. Although a significant proportion of the inflammatory response appears to exacerbate ischaemic brain injury, certain inflammatory responses are beneficial to ischaemic brains. It is necessary to further identify the detrimental and beneficial inflammatory responses so that therapeutic strategies can be designed for stroke patients to selectively inhibit detrimental responses while enhancing beneficial responses. 3. Increasing evidence also indicates significant changes in the peripheral immune system of stroke patients and animals that undergo cerebral ischaemia. It is worth elucidating the effects of these changes in ischaemic brain damage. 4. There are complex interactions in the ischaemic brain between microglia and other cell types, including neurons, astrocytes, endothelial cells and stem cells. It is of particular interest to determine the mechanisms underlying the roles of high-mobility group box-1, advanced glycation end-products receptors (RAGE), S100B and NADPH oxidase in these interactions. 5. Because brain ischaemia-induced inflammation is a relatively long-lasting event with profound effects on brain injury, it is of considerable importance to further investigate the mechanisms underlying inflammation in ischaemic brains.
Stroke and the immune system: from pathophysiology to new therapeutic strategies.	Stroke is the second most common cause of death worldwide and a major cause of acquired disability in adults. Despite tremendous progress in understanding the pathophysiology of stroke, translation of this knowledge into effective therapies has largely failed, with the exception of thrombolysis, which only benefits a small proportion of patients. Systemic and local immune responses have important roles in causing stroke and are implicated in the primary and secondary progression of ischaemic lesions, as well as in repair, recovery, and overall outcome after a stroke. However, potential therapeutic targets in the immune system and inflammatory responses have not been well characterised. Development of novel and effective therapeutic strategies for stroke will require further investigation of these pathways in terms of their temporal profile (before, during, and after stroke) and risk-to-benefit therapeutic ratio of modulating them.
Immunomodulation by inducing tolerance to E-selectin and adult neurogenesis after stroke]	Neuroblasts in the subventricular zone proliferate markedly after stroke, and migrate to the site of injury along with blood vessels. However, a large fraction of stroke-generated neuroblasts die shortly after being born, because of local inflammation. E-selectin is specifically expressed on endothelial cells, but only when the endothelium activates. Since endothelial activation occurs after stroke, E-selectin can serve as an immunologic tolerization antigen that can focus immunomodulation to regions of the vascular tree. Intranasal instillation of recombinant E-selectin will induce mucosal tolerance to that antigen with the generation of E-selectin-specific regulatory T cells (Tregs). Tregs may protect newly-generated neuroblasts from ischemic damage through 'bystander suppression' in which immunomodulatory cytokines such as TGF-β and IL-10 are released locally. In this series of experiments, we have shown that after E-selectin tolerization in permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) rats Tregs transmigrate to the peri-infarct region of ischemic brain, TNF expression in the local neurovascular niche is reduced, and the survival of newly generated neuroblasts or neurons in the peri-infarct region is increased. Under these conditions, an improvement in sensorimotor function after pMCAO also occurs. E-selectin-specific Tregs can modulate the efficacy of adult neurogenesis after ischemia and promote repair after brain injury.
Prevention of thrombosis relapse in antiphospholipid syndrome patients refractory to conventional therapy using intravenous immunoglobulin.	To investigate the long-term effects of megadoses of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in a small cohort of patients with relapsing primary APS resistant to conventional treatments.
Timing and dose regimens of marrow mesenchymal stem cell transplantation affect the outcomes and neuroinflammatory response after ischemic stroke.	Intravenous transplantation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) had been documented to improve functional outcome after ischemic stroke. However, the timing and appropriate cell number of transplantation to achieve better outcome after an episode of stroke remain further to be optimized.
Presence of heat shock protein 70 in secondary lymphoid tissue correlates with stroke prognosis.	Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp-70) can act as a danger signal and activate immune responses. We studied the presence of Hsp-70 in lymphoid tissue and plasma of acute stroke patients and asymptomatic controls free of neurological disease. Immunofluorescence, Western blotting, qRT-PCR and flow cytometry studies were performed. Plasma Hsp-70 concentration at day 7 was similar in patients and controls, whereas patients disclosed stronger immunoreactivity to Hsp-70 in lymphoid tissue than controls. Most Hsp-70+ cells were antigen presenting cells located in T cell zones. Stronger immunoreactivity to Hsp-70 was associated with smaller infarctions and better functional outcome.
