Development of ionic channels and cell-surface antigens in the cleavage-arrested one-cell embryo of an ascidian.	1. The developmental time course of the appearance of ionic channels was studied with the voltage-clamp technique at 8 degrees C in ascidian embryos in which cleavage was arrested with cytochalasin B immediately after fertilization. The ontogeny of cell-surface antigens was also studied using monoclonal antibodies in both normal and cleavage-arrested embryos. The cleavage-arrested 1-cell embryo differentiates into a cell of epidermal type expressing Ca2+, anomalous rectifier and Ca2+-induced K+ channels, and cell-surface antigens against tunic. 2. The size of the Sr2+ current through egg-type Ca2+ channels decreased during the initial 15 h and disappeared. At about 45 h a Sr2+ current reappeared; the properties of these new channels were different from those of the egg type and were considered to be those of differentiated epidermal Ca2+ channels. 3. Na+ currents also decreased during the first 15 h, and then tended to increase, reaching a peak at about 35 h before decreasing again and finally disappearing. 4. The K+ current through anomalous rectifier channels gradually increased in amplitude, reached a peak at about 35 h and then slightly decreased to a minimum at 45 h. It then increased with further development. 5. The K+ current through the Ca+-induced K+ channels appeared at 50 h and then increased. 6. Input capacity started to increase at 15 h, attained a peak value of three times that of the egg at about 35 h, and then decreased. 7. Two anti-tunic monoclonal antibodies, C1 and 2C5, were obtained. C1 bound only to the tunic; 2C5 bound to the tunic and to the cytoplasm of epidermal cells. 8. C1 antigens first appeared on the surface of the epidermis of the normal embryos and on the surface of the cleavage-arrested 1-cell embryo at about 45 h, and then increased in amount. 9. In the normal embryo 2C5 antigen was first detected at about 40 h inside epidermal cells. It started to accumulate on the epidermal surface at about 45 h and then appeared also in the tunic. In the cleavage-arrested embryo the antigen was first detected at about 50 h, and became more intensely stained as development proceeded.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The specificity of modulation of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase by transmembrane Ca2+ gradient]	We have previously reported that transmembrane Ca2+ gradient-mediated changes in lipid fluidity could modulate the conformation and enzyme activity of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+)-ATPase. The aim of this paper is to explore the specificity of transmembrane Ca2+ gradient-mediated modulation of SR Ca(2+)-ATPase. The results showed that such specificity exhibited in two aspects: 1. The modulation could not be ascribed to transmembrane potential resulted from the transmembrane Ca2+ gradient, Dissipation of transmembrane potential by FCCP (carbonylcyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone) could not affect the activity of SR Ca(2+)-ATPase. 2. Transmembrane Sr2+ gradient had little effect on the enzyme activity of SR Ca(2+)-ATPase. A significant difference between the effect of transmembrane Ca2+ and Sr2+ gradient on the lipid fluidity was detected in the middle region of bilayer of Ca(2+)-ATPase incorporated proteoliposomes using a set of n-AS [n-(9-anthroyloxy) fatty acids] fluorescence polarization probes. It is known that Ca2+ binding domain of SR Ca(2+)-ATPase is just located in the middle region of bilayer, hence it may be deduced that possibly, membrane lipids are involved in transmembrane Ca2+ gradient-mediated modulation of Ca(2+)-ATPase.
