Electron microscopical studies of Strongyloides ratti infective larvae: loss of the surface coat during skin penetration.	Previous indications using radiolabelled larvae that Strongyloides ratti free-living infective larvae lose a surface coat during penetration of the skin were further investigated by transmission electron microscopy of the cuticle of S. ratti infective larvae in the free-living stage, after penetration of mouse skin, and after migration to the lungs. These studies demonstrated the presence of a faint electron-dense surface coat external to the epicuticle on free-living worms which was absent from larvae recovered from the skin and lungs. When free-living infective larvae were incubated in 10% CO2 at 37 C and then examined with phase-contrast microscopy, worms were observed in the process of losing this coat. These observations confirm the hypothesis that S. ratti infective larvae lose a surface coat during penetration of the skin.
Strongyloides ratti in virgin female rats: studies of oestrous cycle effects and general variability.	There were no differences in mean intestinal worm burdens 8 days after subcutaneous injection of 4000 infective larvae of Strongyloides ratti into rats in dioestrus, pro-oestrus, oestrus and metoestrus. Thus, changes in the hormonal environment of the migrating larvae dependent on the oestrous cycle did not alter the worms' destination or affect their potential for development. In particular, the results are prima facie evidence that prolactin is not, on its own, responsible for the re-orientation of larvae in the tissues of nursing mothers. Other sources of variability in experimental S. ratti infections are analysed and the 'exact dose' technique offered as a corrective for some procedural errors.
Patterns of milk transmission of Strongyloides ratti.	Eight days after mother rats were injected with 4000 infective larvae of Strongyloides ratti at different stages of lactation the numbers of adult worms in their intestines were uniformly low (less than 3% of the dose) compared with unmated controls (mean = 25%). Those in their litters varied from 12% on day 5 to a maximum of 47% on day 17 post partum. These data, which do not correlate with lactational performance, imply that parasite movements in lactating rats are controlled by qualitative, not quantitative, consequences of humoral events. The numbers of worms in litters are concluded to be the result of the interaction of dynamic determinants of larval routes in the mother and changes in the suitability of the neonatal gut as an environment for worm development. The timing of events leading to milk-borne infection is defined. Injected larvae were closely synchronized in their movements, which were completed in 36 h. Larvae experimentally diverted into the mother's tissues during her first lactation were not available for the infection of a second litter.
