Metastatic thyroid carcinoma in the presence of struma ovarii.	A 27-year-old woman presented with metastatic follicular carcinoma of thyroid cell type. Assessment was complicated by recent surgery for "benign" struma ovarii. She underwent total thyroidectomy which failed to show a neoplasm, leaving the struma ovarii as the likely source of the metastasis.
Malignant struma ovarii: a case report and analysis of cases reported in the literature with focus on survival and I131 therapy.	Malignant struma ovarii is a rare type of germ cell tumor that is most often diagnosed postoperatively. The natural history and optimal treatment regimen for the disease are essentially unknown due to the small numbers of published cases.
Malignant struma ovarii: a case report of laparoscopic management.	Struma ovarii is a rare disease. Malignant transformation is even rarer. Data about its management are lacking. We describe the first reported case of a malignant struma ovarii treated and staged by laparoscopy.
Hypothyroidism due to Hashimoto thyroiditis post struma ovarii excision.	Struma ovarii is a rare ovarian teratoma that may produce hyperthyroidism. The association with Hashimoto thyroiditis HT, however is rare and has been reported in only one case. We report a case of HT following the resection of struma ovarii tumor, after which the patient became frankly, hypothyroid with elevated thyroid stimulating hormone and low thyroxin levels. Her thyroid peroxidase antibodies were positive. She improved after initiation of levothyroxine replacement therapy. We believe her euthyroid status preoperatively was due to thyroid hormone secretion by struma ovarii itself.
Struma carcinoid tumor within a dermoid cyst as an incidental finding in cesarean section]	A 25-year-old primigravida with breech presentation was admitted near term. During Caesarean section, a dermoid cyst of the right ovary was detected. The dermoid cyst was enucleated, preserving a plum-sized ovary. Histology revealed a strumal carcinoid within the excised dermoid cyst. From the histological point of view it was classified as a tumour of low malignancy. The clinical study provided no evidence of any metastases. On the 14th postoperative day the patient could be discharged from hospital subject to close aftercare control.
Silent corticotroph cell pituitary adenoma in a struma ovarii.	This is the first report of a silent corticotroph cell pituitary adenoma arising in a struma ovarii. The patient, a 79-year-old woman, was found to have an asymptomatic left-sided adnexal mass confirmed by vaginal sonography to be a complex cystic and solid tumor. Pathological analysis demonstrated an 8-cm partially cystic struma ovarii in which there was a focus of predominantly basophilic adenohypophyseal cells arranged in a diffuse pattern, adjacent to mature neural tissue containing numerous Herring bodies. The epithelial lining cells of the colloid-filled small and cystic follicles were immunoreactive for thyroglobulin. The pituitary cells were predominantly immunoreactive for adrenocorticotropic hormone, in addition to synaptophysin.
The enigma of struma ovarii.	Since its first description in the early part of the twentieth century, struma ovarii has elicited considerable interest because of its many unique features; however, at present a number of aspects remain enigmatic. Although the typical presentation is that of a pelvic mass, unusual clinical manifestations such as hyperthyroidism, ascites, and Meigs' syndrome have been recognised. Uncommon macroscopic and especially histological patterns in struma can cause difficulties in diagnosis. Cystic strumas are challenging to diagnose both macroscopically and histologically. Proliferative changes within struma can be misdiagnosed as cancer. In regard to the occurrence of thyroid-type carcinoma in struma ovarii, precise terminology should be utilised, and the term 'malignant struma ovarii' should be avoided because it has been used for several different pathological entities. Papillary carcinoma is the most commonly occurring thyroid-type carcinoma in ovarian struma; however, cases of follicular carcinoma are not infrequent. Histological malignancy in struma does not necessarily equate with biological malignancy, and the majority of thyroid-type carcinomas do not spread beyond the ovary. Strumal carcinoid, a neoplasm apparently unique to the ovary containing elements of both struma and carcinoid, has been misdiagnosed as 'malignant struma ovarii' in the past. The differential diagnosis of extra-ovarian spread of struma includes the usual types of thyroid cancer, minimal deviation follicular carcinoma, and peritoneal strumosis. This review emphasises articles both recent and past that have significantly advanced our knowledge of struma ovarii and related neoplasms.
Peritoneal strumosis.	A rare case of peritoneal strumosis is described. A 49-year-old woman was operated on because of a uterine leiomyoma. Laparotomy disclosed a left sided ovarian mass and multiple implants in the omentum. Microscopic examination revealed a benign ovarian struma with omental spread. There were no signs of a thyroid neoplasm. 32 months later and after three courses of chemotherapy, the patient was free of the disease. Although the nature of this lesion is equivocal, one cannot exclude maturation of a highly differentiated follicular cancer which could have arisen in the ovarian struma.
