Guiaflavine, a new bisindole quaternary alkaloid from the stem bark of Strychnos guianensis.	A reinvestigation of Strychnos guianensis resulted in the isolation of a colored quaternary bisindole alkaloid from the stem bark. The structure of this new substance, guiaflavine (1), was defined by detailed spectroscopic methods and comparison with model compounds.
Direct enantiomeric resolution of some 2-arylpropionic acids using (-)-brucine-impregnated thin-layer chromatography.	Direct enantioseparation of (+/-)-ibuprofen and (+/-)-flurbiprofen was achieved by two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography on silica gel plates impregnated with optically pure (-)-brucine as chiral selector. The solvent systems that were successful in resolving both the compounds were acetonitrile-methanol (16:3 v/v) for the first dimension and acetonitrile-methanol-water (16:3:0.4, v/v) for the second dimension. Iodine vapour was used for detection; the detection limit for both (+/-)-ibuprofen and (+/-)-flurbiprofen was 0.1 microgram.
Highly sensitive reaction of nitrate with brucine and 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone hydrochloride for the determination of nitrate in environmental samples.	A modified and highly sensitive spectrophotometric method for the determination of nitrate in trace quantities in environmental samples is described. The method is based on the reaction of nitrate ion with brucine and 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone hydrochloride (MBTH) in sulfuric acid medium to yield a violet-colored product which is stable for over two days. The optimum photometric range for the determination of nitrate is 0.04-0.16 microg cm(-3) and the Sandell's sensitivity being 0.000279 microg cm(-2). The proposed method is applied to various water samples and the results indicate that the reaction is highly sensitive than the original brucine method.
Analysis of strychnine and brucine in postmortem specimens by RP-HPLC: a case report of fatal intoxication.	A sensitive method for the identification and quantitation of the toxic alkaloids strychnine and brucine from postmortem specimens has been established. After solid-phase extraction using Oasis MCX cartridges the extracts were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography with diode-array detection. The limit of detection was 0.5 ng/mL blood for strychnine and brucine, and the limit of quantitation was 5 ng/mL blood for strychnine and brucine. The method was applied for the analysis of blood and gastric contents of a 34-year-old female who died after ingestion of a packet of herbal medicine powder containing the seeds of Strychnos nux-vomica L. Strychnine and brucine were detected in all the samples. The concentration in our case is consistent with that in previous reports.
Resolution of (+/-)-ibuprofen using (-)-brucine as a chiral selector by thin layer chromatography.	The enantiomeric resolution of (+/-)-ibuprofen into its enantiomers was achieved by TLC on silica gel plate using optically pure (-)-brucine as a chiral selector and acetonitrile-methanol (5:1, v/v) as the solvent system. Spots were located in an iodine chamber. The detection limit was 4.9 microg. The effect of concentration of the chiral selector, temperature and pH on resolution has been studied.
Fatal intoxication due to brucine.	A sensitive method for identifying and quantifying brucine by means of liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry is presented in this article. Based on a solid-phase extraction for human serum, the validation indicated limits of detection and quantification of 0.12 and 0.23 ng/mL, respectively. In one case of lethal suicidal brucine monointoxication, brucine concentrations of 1.51 μg/mL, 1.69 μg/mL, 9.94 μg/mL, 16.4 μg/g, 0.99 μg/g, 0.75 μg/g, and 1.95 mg/g were determined in femoral blood, urine, bile collected from the gallbladder, liver tissue, cerebellum, cerebrum, and stomach contents, respectively.
Effect of brucine on metabolism of osteoblasts and osteoclasts in multiple myeloma]	This study was aimed to explore the influence of brucine on the early differentiation of osteoblasts and the metabolic pathway of osteoclast in multiple myeloma (MM) and to compare the effects of brucine and bortezomib on MM. The half inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of brucine and bortezomib on MM cell line U266 was determined by MTT method; the mRNA levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), osteocalcin (OC), osteoprotegerin (OPG) and osteoprotegerin ligand (RANKL) were detected by RT-PCR after the supernatant of cultured U266 cells was added into the culture system for inducing the differentiation of osteoblast line MC3T3-E1 and culturing. The results showed that the IC(50)of bortezomib and brucine on U266 cells for 48 hours were 22.4 nmol/L and 0.16 mg/ml respectively. As compared with osteoblasts treated by supernatant of cultured MM cells alone, the mRNA levels of ALP, OC and OPG in osteoblasts treated by brucine combined with supernatant of cultured MM cells were enhanced (p < 0.05), while the RANKL mRNA level was lowered (p < 0.05), moreover the enhanced and lowered degree also was large (p < 0.05). It is concluded that the influence of brucine on metabolism of osteoblasts and osteoclasts in MM may be realized through the regulation of osteoclasts by osteoblasts. The therapeutic efficacy of brucine on MM is superior to bortezomib.
Effect of brucine on secretion function and proliferation capability of T lymphocytes in patients with aplastic anemia]	The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of brucine on secretion of TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-4 and proliferation of T lymphocytes in patients with aplastic anemia (AA), and to explore its mechanism. Peripheral blood T lymphocytes from 10 patients with AA and 10 healthy volunteers were isolated, purified and cultured. T lymphocytes from the patients were divided into 0, 100, 200 and 400 µg/ml brucine-treated groups. T lymphocytes from healthy volunteers were used as control group. After being cultured for 72 hours, the levels of TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-4 in the supernatant of cultured T lymphocytes from AA patients were detected by ELISA, and the proliferation of T lymphocytes from AA patients was detected by MTT. The results showed that compared with the normal control group, the levels of TNF-α and IFN-γ in the culture supernatant significantly increased, and IL-4 was significantly decreased. The levels of TNF-α and IFN-γ in the culture supernatant of brucine treated groups were lower, and were dependent on the concentration of brucine. However, the levels of IL-4 were found to be not obviously changed. The inhibition rate of T lymphocytes in 100, 200 and 400µg/ml brucine-treated groups were (13.61 ± 4.31)%, (14.28 ± 4.31)% and (15.12 ± 4.56)% respectively, among which the differences were not statistically significant. It is concluded that the brucine can reduce the levels of TNF-α and IFN-γ through inhibiting the proliferation of T lymphocytes in AA patients, which provides experimental basis for therapy of AA patients.
Effects of brucine combined with glycyrrhetinic acid or liquiritin on rat hepatic cytochrome P450 activities in vivo.	Abstract: The activities of four CYP450 enzymes (CYP3A, 1A2, 2El and 2C) and the mRNA expression levels of CYP1A2, 2El, 2Cll and 3A1 in rat liver were determined after Wistar rats were orally administered with brucine (BR) at three dosage levels (3, 15 and 60 mg.kg-1 per day) and the high dose of BR combined with glycyrrhetinic acid (GA, 25 mg.kg-1 per day) or liquiritin (LQ, 20 mg.kg-1 per day) for 7 consecutive days. Compared with the control, brucine caused 24.5% and 34.6% decrease of CYP3A-associated testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation (6betaTesto-OH) and CYP2C-associated tolbutamide hydroxylation (Tol-OH), respectively, and 146.1% increase of CYP2El-associated para-nitrophenol hydroxylation (PNP-OH) at the high dose level. On the other hand, (BR+GA) caused 51.4% and 33.5% decrease, respectively, of CYP2El-associated PNP-OH and CYP1A2-associated ethoxyresorufin-O-de-ethylation (EROD) as compared with the high dose of BR group. Meanwhile, (BR+LQ) caused 41.1% decrease of CYP2El-associated PNP-OH and 37.7% increase of CYP2C-associated Tol-OH. The results indicated that the co-administration of BR with GA or LQ had effect on mRNA expression and activities of the CYP450 enzymes mentioned above to some extent, and the in vivo antagonism of LQ on BR-induced CYPs adverse effects and the in vivo inhibitory action of GA on CYP2E1 and 1A2 might play an important role in the detoxification of Radix Glycyrrhizae against Strychnos nux-vomica L.
Effects of brucine on bone metabolism in multiple myeloma.	The aim of this study was to explore the effects of brucine on bone metabolism in multiple myeloma (MM) and to compare brucine and bortezomib regarding the effects on MM in vitro. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) values of brucine and bortezomib in the MM cell line U266 were detected by MTT assay. In addition, the expression of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), osteocalcin (OC), osteoprotegerin (OPG) and osteoprotegerin ligand (also termed receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand) (RANKL) at mRNA levels were measured by RT-PCR. IC50 of bortezomib in the U266 cell line at 48 h was 22.4 nmol/l, and that of brucine was 0.16 nmol/l. Compared with osteoblasts incubated with MM cell supernatant alone, the mRNA levels of ALP, OC and OPG in osteoblasts co-treated with brucine and MM cell supernatant were higher (p<0.05), while the mRNA expression of RANKL was lower, and the ranges of the changes were all larger than those of the group treated with bortezomib (P<0.05). Brucine exerts effects on bone metabolism in multiple myeloma through the regulation of osteoclasts by osteoblasts.
Determination of brucine and strychnine in rat after cutaneous administration of semen strychni niosome gel by LC-MS/MS]	A sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric (LC-MS/MS) method has been developed and validated for the determination of brucine and strychnine in rat plasma.
LC-MS/MS analysis of determination of strychnine and brucine in formaldehyde fixed tissue]	To establish a method for determination of strychnine and brucine in formaldehyde fixed tissue by LC-MS/MS analysis.
Strychnobaillonine, an unsymmetrical bisindole alkaloid with an unprecedented skeleton from Strychnos icaja roots.	A reinvestigation of the roots of Strychnos icaja resulted in the isolation of a new bisindole alkaloid named strychnobaillonine (1) with original C-17-N-1' and C-23-C-17' junctions, in addition to sungucine, bisnordihydrotoxiferine, and strychnohexamine (2). Compound 1 showed potent activity against the chloroquine-sensitive 3D7 strain of Plasmodium falciparum in vitro with an IC50 value of 1.1 μM. The structures of the compounds were defined by detailed spectroscopic analyses, especially 1H and 13C NMR, DEPT, HSQC, COSY, NOESY, HMBC, and HRESIMS. The proposed absolute configuration was based on biosynthetic considerations and spectroscopic data (CD, NMR) supported by molecular modeling.
Protein ligand interactions. Indole alkaloids as inhibitors for lactate dehydrogenase.	Kinetic analysis showed that the indole alkaloids strychnine and brucine interact competitively with the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase with respect to the substrate pyruvate and non competitively with respect to NADH. Since the alkaloids possess a potential enolate and a quaternary nitrogen they bridge the binding sites for the substrates - pyruvate and NAD+. Conformational alterations induced by the binding of ligands to the enzyme subunits are discussed in terms of the proposed chemical model.
13C-NMR spectra of strychnos alkaloids: brucine and strychnine.	The natural abundance 13C-NMR spectra of brucine and strychnine were obtained using the pulse Fourier transform technique. The chemical shifts of various carbon resonances were assigned on the basis of substituent effects on benzene shifts, intesities of signals, multiplicites generated in single-frequency off-resonance-decoupled spectra, and comparisons with the chemical shifts of structurally related compounds.
Determination of strychnine and brucine by capillary zone electrophoresis.	A procedure for quantitative estimation of strychnine and brucine in the extracts of Strychnos nux-vomica seeds by capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) was developed. The buffer solution used was 10mM phosphate buffer-MeOH (9:1), pH 2.5. The linear calibration range was 0.01-0.15 mg/ml. This method is useful for the qualitative and quantitative determination of strychnine and brucine in plant drug samples, as well as in human plasma.
On identifying a second molecular antagonistic mechanism operative at the glycine receptor.	We used molecular modeling techniques to examine six reported antagonists of glycine with varying Ki values against strychnine. We found the data suggest two groups operating with different mechanisms. In group 1 (strychnine, brucine, Pitrazepin, and bicuculline methobromide) the antagonist contains two or three sites that can electrostatically bind to the three comparable groups of opposite charge in the recognition site where the natural neurotransmitter binds, thus opening the chloride channel. In addition, when in this position, the antagonist is able to also block the now opened chloride channel with a different portion of its structure. In many cases, this involves an interaction between a carbonyl group on the antagonist and the guanidinium group of arginine which is part of the polypeptide segment of the outer mouth of the chloride channel (Grenningloh et al., Nature 330:25-26, 1987). In group 2 (R5135 and 1,5-diphenyl-3,7-diazaadamantan-9-ol) the antagonist contains charged sites but when one of these molecules attaches to the recognition site, the chloride channel is not opened. In addition, R5135 contains a carbonyl group which attaches to arginine as pointed out in the text, whereas 1,5-diphenyl-3,7-diazaadamantan-9-ol contains a phenyl group that can block the channel.
Genetics of bitter perception in mice.	Inbred and congenic strains exhibited several patterns of relative sensitivity to bitter tastants in 48-h, two-bottle preference tests. With segregation analyses of descendents of crosses between contrasting strains, these patterns suggested at least three genetic loci influencing bitter perception. The extensively characterized Soa (sucrose octaacetate) locus underlies one pattern. Variation at this locus had pleiotropic effects on avoidance of other acetylated sugars, plus such structurally dissimilar bitter tastants as brucine, denatonium benzoate, and quinine sulfate. Unlike SOA, however, sensitivity to quinine sulfate was polygenically determined, and produced a second characteristic pattern. At least one, possibly several, additional unlinked loci contributed to quinine differences. Phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) aversion differences exemplified a third pattern. Segregation consistent with monogenic control of PTC aversion has been reported, and within segregating populations PTC aversion did not covary with SOA or quinine sulfate avoidance. Variants of the three major patterns may be useful for analysis of specific mechanisms. While both showed the SOA pattern, strychnine differences were markedly smaller than brucine (dimethoxystrychnine) differences. Likewise, a hop extract containing primarily iso-alpha acids (e.g., isohumulone) produced an SOA-like pattern, while an extract with nonisomerized alpha-acids (e.g., humulone) did not.
Studies on the chemical constituents of alkaloids in seeds of Strychnos nux-vomica L]	Thirteen alkaloids were isolated from the seeds of Strychnos nux-vomica. They were identified as strychnine, beta-colubrine, pseudostrychnine, strychnine N-oxide, brucime, brucine N-oxide, novacine, icajine, vomicine, isostrychnine, isobrucine, isobrucine N-oxide and isostrychnine N-oxide by chemical and spectroscopic analysis.
