Recruitment: an issue for all health record professionals.	This article is meant to stimulate discussion of our education program recruitment and delivery systems, and to suggest an orientation toward the adult student and away from the traditional younger student, whose population is shrinking.
Survey of library and information use by health-care students.	The study compares and contrasts the usage and views of three groups of health-care students (Pre-Project 2000, Project 2000 and BSc Occupational Therapy) on their library facilities. A literature review is included which underpins the importance of libraries for health-care students. Data was compiled from survey responses. The results demonstrate which libraries the students use, how often they use them, what they do in the libraries, and the stock used. They also show the level of student confidence and the services used. The implications of the study for future provision are considered.
Self-evaluation of contact lens wearing and care by college students and health care workers.	To identify perceptions related to the wear and care and of contact lenses and self-evaluation of the knowledge regarding their cleaning and disinfection.
Clinical education of physiotherapy students in Australia: perceptions of current models.	The aim of this study was to seek opinions regarding the perceived advantages and disadvantages of the two main models of clinical education used in Australia. A questionnaire was designed specifically for this study and distributed to physiotherapists involved in clinical education at health units throughout Australia. There were 343 respondents (giving an approximate response rate of 74.5%). In most health units (78.4%) the model of clinical education currently used involves a number of physiotherapists sharing responsibility for the clinical education of students (SR model). Only a minority reported employing a designated clinical educator (DCE) to provide clinical education. Overall, respondents preferred the DCE model to the SR model. The perceived advantages of the DCE model included an increased time to devote to clinical education, improved consistency of supervision and decreased stress levels for staff.
Radiologic sciences. Faculty needs assessment.	A total of 326 programs are represented in the data collected. Based on the average number of full- and part-time faculty members reported per program, this survey represents more than 1500 faculty positions. Based on the forecast of retirement and career change for all faculty members, there will be a turnover of 700 to 800 positions over the next 5 to 10 years. Part-time/adjunct faculty vacancies are expected to create the greatest number of opportunities for technologists to make the transition to education, with approximately one third of current part-time/adjunct educators planning on leaving radiologic sciences education within 5 years. To encourage retention of part-time/adjunct educators, annual evaluations should be modified to recognize the important educational role these instructors play. There is a need to create enthusiasm and interest in education as a career pathway for radiologic technologists. Resources are needed that help radiologic technologists make the transition to teaching. Finally, the retention of educators must be emphasized. Program applicant trends indicate radiologic technology students are older, have prior postsecondary education experience or are making a career change. This data emphasizes the need for educators, both full time and part time, to understand the characteristics and needs of the adult learner. Adult learners bring a wealth of education, experience and life skills that create both opportunities and challenges in the classroom and clinical setting. All categories of respondents indicated that their current salaries were greater than those of program graduates in their firstjob. Of interest is that 1 in 5 (20%) of part-time/adjunct educators indicated the opposite--that program graduates earn more in their firstjob than educators earn. When asked about salaries if working full time in clinical practice, the majority of all groups indicated their salary would be about the same or would decrease. Only 20% of program directors, 21% of full-time educators and 26% of part-time/adjunct educators indicated their salary would be higher in clinical practice. Part-time/adjunct educators reported working the most in clinical practice within the past week to month. Program directors exhibited the greatest separation from clinical practice, with more than half indicating a gap of 2 years or more from practicing in the clinical environment. While academic achievement is common among the educator populations sampled, a very low percentage of these educators are seeking an advanced academic degree. Less than a third of those surveyed indicated that they were pursuing an advanced degree. Becoming involved in research is not a requirement for many current educators, although survey participants expressed an interest in information about how to conduct a research project. A primary motivator for conducting the faculty development needs assessment was to use the data in strategic planning to set priorities for the resources available to the ASRT Education Department. The data will help maximize ASRT support for present and future educators. Services created by the ASRT Education Department will deepen the relationship with this key segment of the professional community.
Students' opinions of the Academy of Physical Education and Sports from Gdańsk about their preparation for pro-health education program at school]	The object of the study was to collect opinions on preparations for prohealth education program at school presented by students from Gdańsk. A diagnostic survey based on an anonymous questionnaire was applied. The study was carried out in students majoring in motor recreation, coaching and biological regeneration in 2002/2003 and 2003/2004 academic years. 234 respondents were qualified for the study. Almost half of the students declare their dissatisfaction with preparations for being promoters and coordinators of prohealth programs at school.
Meaning ascribed to major professional concepts: a comparison of occupational therapy students and practitioners in the United States and Israel.	A number of concepts related to human performance, such as occupation, purposeful activity, function, work, doing, and play/leisure, are widely used in occupational therapy. Because these concepts are essential to the profession, we seek to understand their meaning. Many theorists in occupational therapy define and attribute different levels of importance to each of these concepts. The present study examines the professional (student vs. practitioner) and universal (American vs. Israeli) meanings of the six concepts named above. Four statistical methods were used: (a) a multivariate analysis of variance, (b) t tests and a sign test to analyze the Osgood semantic differential, and (c) Individual Differences in Multidimensional Scaling (Carroll & Chang, 1970). The results indicate that the American occupational therapists ascribed higher affective meanings than did all of the other groups to the concepts of purposeful activity, function, doing, and work. No difference was found for occupation and hobby, which rated high for all groups. Differences in the dimensions underlying the concepts between American and Israeli subjects suggest a cultural and linguistic influence on the meaning ascribed to the concepts.
Relationship of periodontal status and dental caries status with oral health knowledge, attitude and behavior among professional students in India.	To find the relationship of periodontal status and dental caries status with oral health knowledge, attitude, behavior, among professional students in India.
Veterinary students' usage and perception of video teaching resources.	The purpose of our study was to use a student-centred approach to develop an online video learning resource (called 'Moo Tube') at the School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham, UK and also to provide guidance for other academics in the School wishing to develop a similar resource in the future.
The effect of acute sleep deprivation and fatigue in cardiovascular perfusion students: a mixed methods study.	Sleep deprivation as a result of long working hours has been associated with an increased risk of adverse events in healthcare professions but not in cardiovascular perfusion. The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of sleep deprivation on cardiovascular perfusion students. Testing with high-fidelity simulation after 24 hours of sleep deprivation allowed investigators to assess user competency and the effect of fatigue on performance. After informed consent, seven senior perfusion students were enrolled in the study (three declined to participate). The qualitative portion of the study included a focus group session, whereas the quantitative portion included administration of questionnaires, including the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and the Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS), as well as clinical skills assessment using high-fidelity simulation. Subjects were assessed at three different intervals of sleep deprivation over a 24-hour period: baseline (6:00 AM), 12 hours (6:00 PM), 16 hours (10:00 PM), and 24 hours (6:00 AM) of wakefulness. During each scenario, normally monitored bypass parameters, including mean arterial pressure, activated clotting times, partial pressures of oxygen, partial pressures of carbon dioxide, and venous flow, were manipulated, and the subjects were required to return the parameters to normal levels. In addition, the scenario required calculation of the final protamine dose (using a dose-response curve) and detection of electrocardiography changes. Each task was varied at the different simulation sessions to decrease the effect of learning. Despite any lack of sleep, we hypothesized that, because of repetition, the times to complete the task would decrease at each session. We also hypothesized that the ESS and SSS scores would increase over time. We expected that the students would anticipate which tasks were being evaluated and would react more quickly. The average ESS scores progressively increased at each time period: baseline, 12 hours, 16 hours, and 24 hours. At 24 hours, the ESS and SSS scores were the greatest and the standard deviation was low, suggesting that fatigue affected all participants. During the clinical task evaluations, a "flattening effect" on the learning curve over time was observed. Tasks that required a higher level of cognition had prolonged completion times. Sleep deprivation significantly affects clinical performance as assessed with high-fidelity simulation. To optimize patient and clinician safety, it is important that the question of length of working time be investigated further.
Unfit for duty? Evaluation of 4 years of paramedic preemployment fitness screening test results.	Preemployment testing is utilized by many ambulance services. Surprisingly, there is limited published research on the efficacy of this testing in determining an employee's ability to complete the requirements of this physically demanding occupation.
Pacific students undertaking the first year of health sciences at the University of Otago, and factors associated with academic performance.	To describe Pacific students in the first year of health sciences at tertiary level, their academic performance, and factors associated with academic outcomes.
Outcomes study of attrition in a two-year R.T. program.	This article examines whether there is a statistically significant relationship between admission criteria and other related student characteristics to attrition rates in radiologic science programs at two-year community colleges. The study reported in this article investigated 179 students admitted during a 10-year period to a radiography program at a Midwestern community college. Investigators found that admission criteria were not correlates of student success or failure, indicating a need for further research into cognitive and non-cognitive factors.
