Screening college students for hypercholesterolemia.	Selective screening for children and mass screening for adults are the two strategies for detecting hypercholesterolemia and identifying individuals at risk for early heart attacks that have been recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Medical Association. The interval marking the end of childhood and the beginning of adulthood is a time of transition without an unwavering demarcation line. It is a time when many adult disorders that demand attention and detection begin. Because of the close relationship of elevated cholesterol levels in youth to subsequent cardiovascular disease, a small liberal arts university began mandatory mass cholesterol screening for all full- or part-time students who matriculated in September 1977. More than thirty 18- and 19-year-old first-year students with unknown hypercholesterolemia were detected each year. The mean cost per case identified is estimated to have been $212. The author concluded that mass screening of students entering college can identify, at a reasonable cost, students who have high levels of cholesterol.
Consumer perceptions of dental care in the health services program of an educational institution.	A consumer survey was used to evaluate the University of Massachusetts dental service, a program emphasizing an educational and preventive approach, comprehensive care, and consideration of some prepayment. Attitude and courtesy of staff, explanation of treatment, and the educational approach of the services were favorably assessed by the patients. Those who attended the dental education sessions reported higher levels of satisfaction with the service than those who did not. Mechanisms for financing and the philosophical emphasis on health education seem to have resulted in an extremely successful service.
Recruitment to a university alcohol program: evaluation of social marketing theory and stepped approach model.	This study was a first initiative to evaluate the application of social marketing theory (SMT) to increase attendance at an alcohol abuse education program for university residence hall students and to ascertain whether aggressive recruitment strategies are necessary as part of the stepped approach model (SAM) of service delivery.
