Performance evaluation of occupational therapy students: a reliability study.	The Performance Evaluation of Occupational Therapy Students (PEOTS) is an instrument designed to evaluate the clinical competence of occupational therapy students. The purpose of this study was to carry out a preliminary evaluation of the inter-rater and test-retest reliability of the PEOTS. Thirteen occupational therapy students, completed a one week placement at one of four facilities. Two occupational therapists supervised each student and evaluated performance using the PEOTS on day three and day five of this placement. The results indicated that the instrument has good inter-rater reliability. Test-retest reliability was difficult to evaluate since learning was a confounding factor. These preliminary findings support the use of the PEOTS as an evaluation tool. Further research, however, is needed to establish test-retest reliability and internal consistency of the PEOTS.
Selected options supporting use of the group embedded figures test in modeling achievement in clinical laboratory science programs.	To identify, in light of predicted future shortages of allied-health personnel, student and curricular characteristics of clinical laboratory science (CLS) programs relevant to recruitment and retention at the baccalaureate level.
Preceptor appraisals of rewards and student preparedness in the clinical setting.	The purposes of this study were to determine preceptors' expectations of students in the supervised practice setting; to identify rewarding and discouraging experiences in precepting; and to establish the perceived effect of the changing health care structure on precepting. A survey consisting of ten open-ended questions was mailed to 430 clinical instructors, representing five allied health programs. Results indicated that observing student growth was the most rewarding aspect of the preceptor role. Frustrating preceptor experiences included low student motivation and poor personal and professional behavior. Respondents expected students entering the clinical experience to have appropriate technical and communication skills. Increased pressures from health care restructuring are decreasing the internal rewards for preceptors. The findings of this study support both further preparation for students entering the clinical experience and a reward system for preceptors.
Distance learning in academic health education.	Distance learning is an apparent alternative to traditional methods in education of health care professionals. Non-interactive distance learning, interactive courses and virtual learning environments exist as three different generations in distance learning, each with unique methodologies, strengths and potential. Different methodologies have been recommended for distance learning, varying from a didactic approach to a problem-based learning procedure. Accreditation, teamwork and personal contact between the tutors and the students during a course provided by distance learning are recommended as motivating factors in order to enhance the effectiveness of the learning. Numerous assessment methods for distance learning courses have been proposed. However, few studies report adequate tests for the effectiveness of the distance-learning environment. Available information indicates that distance learning may significantly decrease the cost of academic health education at all levels. Furthermore, such courses can provide education to students and professionals not accessible by traditional methods. Distance learning applications still lack the support of a solid theoretical framework and are only evaluated to a limited extent. Cases reported so far tend to present enthusiastic results, while more carefully-controlled studies suggest a cautious attitude towards distance learning. There is a vital need for research evidence to identify the factors of importance and variables involved in distance learning. The effectiveness of distance learning courses, especially in relation to traditional teaching methods, must therefore be further investigated.
The educational interaction between physical therapy and occupational therapy students.	The objectives of this study were to identify the prevalence of shared learning in U.S. physical therapy (PT) and occupational therapy (OT) education programs; determine what terminology is used for these courses; and identify perceived barriers, benefits, and challenges of the educational interactions. A survey, designed to collect information about the educational interaction between PT and OT students, was mailed to all program directors (n = 206) at each of the academic institutions (N = 103) in the United States with accredited or developing entry-level programs in PT and OT. A census study was conducted, and the entire study population received a survey. A total of 206 surveys were mailed, and 123 were retured (59.7% response rate). Of program directors, 40 (67.8%) of the PT and 42 (65.6%) of the OT program directors reported that their students shared courses with each other. None of the PT and only 8 (12.5%) of the OT directors reported that students shared clinical experiences. The term interdisciplinary was used most frequently to refer to shared educational experiences. Benefits of shared learning included sharing resources, collaboration, learning about the other profession, and gaining respect for the other profession. Challenges to shared learning included resource constraints, curricular differences, competition and differences between disciplines, relevance of course work, and different faculty expectations. Barriers reported by program directors whose students did not engage in interdisciplinary education were resource constraints, curricular differences, faculty attitude, and failure of past attempts. A model of interdisciplinary education that seeks to instill collaboration and understanding among professions is difficult to implement without shared clinical experiences. Most students in entry-level PT and OT programs in the United States do not currently have the opportunity to practice the teamwork that will be essential when they enter their respective professions.
Student-led exercise sessions yield significant fitness gains for Alzheimer's patients.	At a time when they are losing skills in virtually all arenas of life, persons with Alzheimer's disease can experience significant, esteem-building achievements in physical fitness and mood through supervised participation in an exercise program. The effects of physical exercise plus cognitive and social stimulation on persons with early stage Alzheimer's disease were assessed in a longitudinal study. Twenty-four such individuals, aged 54 to 88 at program entry, participated in 16 to 20 exercise sessions and 10 community activity sessions per semester for two to eight semesters. Half of the weekly exercise sessions included memory and language stimulation activities. Students, supplemented by family caregivers, supervised the sessions. Exercise sessions consisted of flexibility, balance, aerobic, and weight resistance activities. Preparticipation and semiannual post-testing of aerobic fitness and duration and upper and lower body strength was done. Highly significant fitness gains (p < .001) were achieved in the six-minute walk test, upper and lower body strength, and duration of aerobic exercise. Five participants, aged 86 to 91, completed six to eight semesters and were doing 27 to 45 minutes of aerobics per session at program's end. Five participants scored within the normal range for age-matched healthy active adults on the six-minute walk test at baseline. Nine others achieved and three exceeded the normal range during treatment. Cognitive decline was slowed and mood improved. First-year cognitive outcomes have been published elsewhere. An article reporting final cognitive outcomes is in preparation; Outcome data is summarized on the project website: www.u.arizona.edu/ ~sarkin/elderrehab.html. The benefits of physical exercise can be made available at nominal cost to Alzheimer's patients and other elderly persons by using students to provide transportation, supervision, and the motivational support that is key to exercise adherence. Further research is needed to determine the relative contributions of each program component to the positive outcomes.
Ethical decision-making by students in physical and occupational therapy.	The professions of physical therapy (PT) and occupational therapy (OT) progressively have expanded their scope of responsibility, and practitioners often are placed in positions in which ethical decisions must be made. Few studies have reported the level of moral development and the effects of education on ethical decision making in PT or OT students. This research study was designed to determine the impact of the educational programs at the University of New Mexico (UNM) in PT and OT on the moral reasoning of the students as measured by the Defining Issues Test (DIT). The longitudinal design of this study followed two consecutive classes in each program (N = 94; 58 PT students and 36 OT students) from entry until graduation approximately 2 years later. The subjects completed a demographic survey and the DIT on the first day of class and again during their final semester (OT) or at graduation (PT). A factorial analysis of covariance was used to examine the effects of a professional degree program (PT and OT) and time (ENTRY and EXIT), after adjusting for the effects of age. The mean P score for this sample was between 45 and 46, which is within range for college and professional students. There was a significant relationship between age and the P score of the DIT. There were no significant differences between PT and OT students or between the entering and the exiting scores for either group of students. Based on the results of this study, these educational programs do not seem to be facilitating moral development in these students. The baseline level of moral development and the skills that PT and OT students use when making ethical decisions need to be established. Additional research is recommended with a larger sample size, including students in other locations. To optimize clinical practice, students must be taught how to make ethical as well as clinical judgments. Therapists must be capable of functioning in the changing health care environment, now and in the future. If the disciplines of PT and OT expect to graduate students who meet this challenge, the educational programs must take the responsibility for evaluating students and implementing curricula that facilitate ethical decision making.
Clinical education in private practice: an interdisciplinary project.	Education of rehabilitation professionals traditionally has occurred in acute care hospitals, rehabilitation centres, and other publicly funded institutions, but increasing numbers of rehabilitation professionals are now working in the community in private agencies and clinics. These privately owned clinics and community agencies represent underutilized resources for the clinical training of students. Historically, private practitioners have been less likely to participate in clinical education because of concerns over patient satisfaction and quality of care, workload, costs, and liability. Through a program funded by the Ministry of Health of Ontario, we conducted a series of interviews and focus groups with private practitioners, which identified that several incentives could potentially increase the numbers of clinical placements in private practices, including participation in the development of student learning objectives related to private practice, professional recognition, and improved relationships with the university departments. Placement in private practices can afford students skills in administration, business management, marketing and promotion, resource development, research, consulting, networking, and medical-legal assessments and processes. This paper presents a discussion of clinical education issues from the perspective of private practitioners, based on the findings of a clinical education project undertaken at Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, and previous literature.
The influence of training on the rating of physical therapist student performance in the clinical setting.	Physical therapist education consists of two distinct elements: the didactic preparation and the clinical education experiences. Clinical instructors at affiliated clinics supervise physical therapist students during clinical education. A clinical instructor can receive additional training through two commonly offered programs: Clinical Performance Instrument (CPI) training, which involves 1 hour of instruction, and Clinical Instructor Education and Credentialing Program (CIECP), which includes 15 contact hours of instruction and assessment. The purpose of this study was to determine if completion of either or both of these training programs affected the rating of the CPI by a clinical instructor. Thirty-four licensed physical therapists participated in the study. They were current clinical instructors or physical therapists who were interested in becoming clinical instructors. The subjects were shown a videotape of a simulated student interacting with a simulated client. The subjects were asked to rate the student's performance using the first five criteria of the CPI. The first five criteria were selected for the study because of their designation as determinants for a successful clinical education experience. Background and demographic data were gathered in addition to the CPI ratings. Four groups of clinical instructors were determined from their previous training, then differences in CPI ratings were analyzed. The groups were CIECP and CPI training, CIECP training only, CPI training only, and no training. A multivariate analysis of variance showed statistical significance between training groups but no statistical significance based on previous use of the CPI. Post hoc tests identified the differences as occurring between the group with CIECP and CPI training compared with the groups with only CPI training or no training when rating the first criterion for safety. Rating the second criterion of responsible behavior was different between the CIECP-only group and the CPI only group. This study indicated that completion of CIECP and CPI training affected rating of the first criterion of the CPI compared with clinical instructors who completed the CPI only. Completion of the CIECP only affected the rating of the second CPI criterion compared with CPI-only training. Previous use of the instrument was not significant in this study. Assessment of student performance in the clinical setting is a complex task and further analysis of the training and use of the CPI is needed.
Web-based prerequisite finder. An aid for prospective students in a college of allied health.	Through a college-wide focus of efforts, the admissions process for five allied health departments was streamlined. The web-based prerequisite finder is one tool in this cross-disciplinary model that has resulted in a more effective and efficient application and admissions process for the college.
Evolutionary explanations in medical and health profession courses: are you answering your students' "why" questions?	Medical and pre-professional health students ask questions about human health that can be answered in two ways, by giving proximate and evolutionary explanations. Proximate explanations, most common in textbooks and classes, describe the immediate scientifically known biological mechanisms of anatomical characteristics or physiological processes. These explanations are necessary but insufficient. They can be complemented with evolutionary explanations that describe the evolutionary processes and principles that have resulted in human biology we study today. The main goal of the science of Darwinian Medicine is to investigate human disease, disorders, and medical complications from an evolutionary perspective.
Tracking clinical competencies on the web.	The American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) has defined several core examinations that student radiographers must perform to demonstrate competency. Furthermore, the ARRT has left the method of tracking competency exams to educators.
Myopic progression and dark focus variation in optometric students during the first academic year.	The aim of this research was to investigate the change in refractive error (RE) of optometric students during their first academic year and whether these changes relate to changes in their dark focus (DF).
Effective interdisciplinary training: lessons from the University of North Carolina's student health action coalition.	To identify essential elements of effective interdisciplinary training through an evaluation of the University of North Carolina's Student Health Action Coalition (SHAC), an interdisciplinary service learning program for health science students.
Musculoskeletal disorders of the neck and shoulder in dental hygienists and dental hygiene students.	Dental hygienists have been found to have high rates of neck and shoulder disorders, but there is very limited information on risk factors associated with those disorders, the level of risk for students, and the relationship of prior work as dental assistants for dental hygiene students. This study examines self-reported and physician-diagnosed neck and shoulder pain.
Outcome measures and psychomotor skills related to shoulder conditions for clinical orthopedic training.	This study was designed to assess the ability of physical therapy (PT) students to utilize selected outcome measures such as range of motion (ROM), pain and a number of psychomotor skills and to determine the efficacy of treatment they carried out during orthopedic clinical training.
Smoking among nursing and physical therapy students of the University of the Balearic Islands: opinions on regulation of smoking in public places]	To evaluate the prevalence, opinions and attitudes of nursing and physical therapy students at the University of the Balearic Islands toward smoking in public places and the influence of regulatory policies.
Impact of an interprofessional rural health care practice education experience on students and communities.	The Interprofessional Rural Program of British Columbia (IRPBC) was established in 2003 as a pilot program aimed at supporting the recruitment of health and human service professionals to rural communities in British Columbia, Canada. The program was designed to expose students in the health and human service professions to rural communities and to assess whether this exposure increased the likelihood of their return to work in nonurban settings once they completed their studies. The initial qualitative evaluation of IRPBC was conducted via individual interviews in the first year and written questionnaires in the second year. In general, IRPBC was perceived by the participants to have had a significant impact on the students and communities. The students who participated in it benefited not only from the chance to engage in rural practice but also from the opportunity to interact within an interprofessional context; and the communities participating in the program profited from enhanced health care and the possibility of attracting new practitioners from these students. Exposure to new ways of providing service and the impact that the introduction of teams of passionate students can have on both practitioners and small communities have greatly enriched the broader communities.
Integration of students with physical impairment in Canadian university rehabilitation sciences programs.	The purpose of this research was two-fold. First, it sought to determine if Canadian rehabilitation science programs are equipped to admit students with physical impairments and, second, to document the experience of these students. A survey (questionnaire) conducted among all Canadian university rehabilitation science programs (n=34) and interviews with students with physical impairments (n=3) from one university help better delineate this problem. Twenty-three programs completed the survey. Of these, 21 (91%) rehabilitation science programs have admitted students with a variety of physical impairments. Programs have access to their university's Special Service Center to help answer the needs of these students. Strategies have been developed to overcome the difficulties encountered and to meet the programs' requirements. Canadian university rehabilitation science programs seem well equipped to facilitate the integration of individuals with physical impairments. Students report a positive university experience; however, they voice several recommendations to smooth the integration process. Although significant efforts have been made to facilitate the integration process of students with physical limitations, adjustments are still warranted.
International identification of research priorities for postgraduate theses in musculoskeletal physiotherapy using a modified Delphi technique.	Research priorities are established to identify gaps and maximise opportunities in developing an evidence base. Numerous postgraduate research theses are undertaken each year within the specialist area of musculoskeletal physiotherapy, and although some are published, greater potential for influence exists. This paper identifies international research priorities for postgraduate theses developed using a consensual Delphi process. A purposive sample included course tutors and expert clinicians nominated by Member Organisations of the International Federation of Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapists (N=91). Round 1 requested >10 priorities for theses, and content analysis identified research themes. Round 2 requested participants rank the importance of each theme on a 1-5 scale, and round 3 requested ranking the importance and feasibility of the research question areas within each agreed theme. Descriptive analysis and use of Kendall's coefficient of concordance enabled interpretation of consensus. The response rate of 68% was good, identifying 23 research themes in round 1. Round 2 identified 14 research themes as important. Participant rating of the importance and feasibility of research question areas in round 3 supported 43 agreed priorities demonstrating good measurement validity. Establishing priorities provides a vision of how postgraduate theses can contribute to the developing evidence base and offer a focus for international collaboration.
Examination of musculoskeletal chest pain - an inter-observer reliability study.	Chest pain may be caused by joint and muscle dysfunction of the neck and thorax (termed musculoskeletal chest pain). The objectives of this study were (1) to determine inter-observer reliability of the diagnosis 'musculoskeletal chest pain' in patients with acute chest pain of non-cardiac origin using a standardized examination protocol, (2) to determine inter-observer reliability of single components of the protocol, and (3) to determine the effect of observer experience. Eighty patients were recruited from an emergency cardiology department. Patients were eligible if an obvious cardiac or non-cardiac diagnosis could not be established at the cardiology department. Four observers (two chiropractors and two chiropractic students) performed general health and manual examination of the spine and chest wall. Percentage agreement, Cohen's Kappa and ICC were calculated for observer pairs (chiropractors and students) and all. Musculoskeletal chest pain was diagnosed in 45 percent of patients. Inter-observer kappa values were substantial for the chiropractors and overall (0.73 and 0.62, respectively), and moderate for the students (0.47). For single items of the protocol, the overall kappa ranged from 0.01 to 0.59. Provided adequate training of observers, the examination protocol can be used in carefully selected patients in clinical settings and should be included in pre- and post-graduate clinical training.
Perceptions of practitioners, educators, and students concerning the role of the occupational therapy practitioner.	In this study, the attitudes of 348 occupational therapy educators, practitioners, and students were assessed concerning the perceived role of the practitioner. The three groups' perceptions of the practitioner's role offers a starting point from which changes in education and practice can be made to reflect the profession's pending decisions concerning physical modalities, unification of theory and practice, and status of the profession. A 4-point Likert scale was used to measure the subjects' responses to 19 statements on major professional issues concerning occupational therapy's unique philosophical base, the appropriateness of certain treatment modalities, and the profession's future focus. One-way analyses of variance, Student-Newman-Keuls (Winer, 1971) procedures, and t tests were performed to identify attitudinal differences by respondent type, specialty area, and length of clinical experience. The results indicated agreement among all respondents that occupational therapists should be skilled in analyzing activities and that occupational therapy services should be covered by third-party payment. Additionally, strong attitudinal differences were identified among educators, practitioners, and students regarding treatment modalities and therapists' role characteristics.
From student to therapist: follow up of a first cohort of Bachelor of Occupational Therapy students.	This study aimed to investigate the perception of graduate students on their preparation for practice, at 7 months post graduation.
Increasing the occupational therapy mental health workforce through innovative practice education: a pilot project.	This paper describes the evaluation of a pilot trial of two innovative placement models in the area of mental health, namely role emerging and collaborative supervision. The Queensland Occupational Therapy Fieldwork Collaborative conducted this trial in response to workforce shortages in mental health.
A "Second Life" for gross anatomy: applications for multiuser virtual environments in teaching the anatomical sciences.	This article describes the emerging role of educational multiuser virtual environments, specifically Second Life™, in anatomical sciences education. Virtual worlds promote inquiry-based learning and conceptual understanding, potentially making them applicable for teaching and learning gross anatomy. A short introduction to Second Life as an anatomical educational tool is provided, along with description of existing anatomy applications and future directions for this innovative teaching modality.
Biomedical engineering continues to make the future.	Biomedical engineering (BME) continues to make the future, not just respond to the present, by anticipating the needs of interface engineering and clinical medicine. In many respects, BME is the educational mode of the future, fostering collaboration among disciplines at its core by building on basic concepts in engineering and biology. We strive to educate where the needs, opportunities, and jobs are and will be in the future. The bridge between engineering, biology, and medicine is a growing link, and there is no sign that this interface will slow. With an aging population, dynamic changes in health care, as well as global economies and related themes upon us, we are only at the very beginning of the impact that BME will have on medicine and the quality of life. Those of us in BME are excited to be setting this agenda and welcome your participation. In part, this is why we have designed our BME major to cover both the depth and breadth, always a challenge, but one that we are committed to. The depth of the design projects, research experience, coursework, study abroad options, and internships all convenes to establish a solid foundation for our students as they embark on their career paths.
Evaluation of the effects of an evidence-based practice curriculum on knowledge, attitudes, and self-assessed skills and behaviors in chiropractic students.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of an evidence-based practice (EBP) curriculum incorporated throughout a chiropractic doctoral program on EBP knowledge, attitudes, and self-assessed skills and behaviors in chiropractic students.
'I could never have learned this in a lecture': transformative learning in rural health education.	Health indicators for rural populations in Australia continue to lag behind those of urban populations and particularly for Indigenous populations who make up a large proportion of people living in rural and remote Australia. Preparation of health practitioners who are adequately prepared to face the 'messy swamps' of rural health practice is a growing challenge. This paper examines the process of learning among health science students from several health disciplines from five Western Australian universities during 'Country Week': a one-week intensive experiential interprofessional education program in rural Western Australia. The paper weaves together strands of transformative theory of learning with findings from staff and student reflections from Country Week to explore how facilitated learning in situ can work to produce practitioners better prepared for rural health practice.
Enhancement of anatomical learning and developing clinical competence of first-year medical and allied health profession students.	Hands-on educational experiences can stimulate student interest, increase knowledge retention, and enhance development of clinical skills. The Lachman test, used to assess the integrity of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), is commonly performed by health care professionals and is relatively easy to teach to first-year health profession students. This study integrated teaching the Lachman test into a first-year anatomy laboratory and examined if students receiving the training would be more confident, competent, and if the training would enhance anatomical learning. First-year medical, physician assistant and physical therapy students were randomly assigned into either the intervention (Group A) or control group (Group B). Both groups received the course lecture on knee anatomy and training on how to perform the Lachman test during a surface anatomy class. Group A received an additional 15 minutes hands-on training for the Lachman test utilizing a lightly embalmed cadaver as a simulated patient. One week later, both groups performed the Lachman test on a lightly embalmed cadaver and later completed a post-test and survey. Students with hands-on training performed significantly better than students with lecture-only training in completing the checklist, a post-test, and correctly diagnosing an ACL tear. Students in Group A also reported being more confident after hands-on training compared to students receiving lecture-only training. Both groups reported that incorporating clinical skill activities facilitated learning and created excitement for learning. Hands-on training using lightly embalmed cadavers as patient simulators increased confidence and competence in performing the Lachman test and aided in learning anatomy.
Twelve tips for using social media as a medical educator.	We now live, learn, teach and practice medicine in the digital era. Social networking sites are used by at least half of all adults. Engagement with social media can be personal, professional, or both, for health-related and educational purposes. Use is often public. Lapses in professionalism can have devastating consequences, but when used well social media can enhance the lives of and learning by health professionals and trainees, ultimately for public good. Both risks and opportunities abound for individuals who participate, and health professionals need tips to enhance use and avoid pitfalls in their use of social media and to uphold their professional values.
Skin test reactions to a phenol-soluble antigen of Brucella abortus among veterinary students, Lyon, France, 1984.	In December 1984, 424 students at the National Veterinary College, Lyon, France, were skin-tested with a phenol-soluble antigen of Brucella abortus B19. Of all students, 2.6% had a positive intradermal reaction indicating previous contact with Brucella. Prevalence of positive reactions was significantly lower among students from the three first school years (less than 2%) compared with students in their last school year (5.9%). These results are discussed and compared to the prevalence of brucellosis among cattle. Specificity (94%) of the intradermal testing resembles that of serological testing but its sensitivity (75%) seems to be better.
The recruitment and retention of minority and disadvantaged allied health students.	Student recruitment and retention has been given high priority over the last several years. The School of Allied Health Sciences at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston has been involved in recruitment and retention programs that have produced minority student enrollment of over 20% over the past seven years. The programs are supported by federal grants that have provided seed money to design, develop, and implement three specific recruitment and retention programs. These programs have assisted in enrolling over 575 minority students with a retention rate above 90%. Graduation, licensure, and certification rates have been at or above the majority population. These programs are adaptable at other allied health professions schools and have been used as models for several programs across the United States.
An interdisciplinary clinic for neurogenically impaired adults: a pilot project for educating students.	The Interdisciplinary Rehabilitation Clinic was a pilot project to assess the feasibility and efficacy of providing university-based clinical practicum experiences for students in the Schools of Allied Health Professions and Social Welfare at the University of Wisconsin--Milwaukee. It was designed according to the medical model and was based on the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Hospitals Standards for Rehabilitative Services. This program was based on the professional conviction that people who are expected to function in an interdisciplinary environment would be better able to do so if educated according to an interdisciplinary model. The Interdisciplinary Rehabilitation Clinic addressed the university mission of education, research, and service. It provided an opportunity to integrate theory with practice for students in a clinical setting; demonstrated to health professions students that both basic and applied research evolves from and contributes to clinical practice; and provided care for individuals deprived of needed rehabilitative services because of funding cuts and other changes in current health care service delivery systems. The clinic provided rehabilitative service in the form of speech, and occupational therapy, therapeutic recreation, and social work services to neurogenically impaired adults from the greater Milwaukee area. Student clinicians evaluated the patient's abilities/disabilities, were observed during the evaluation process by their fellow students, met in joint treatment planning teams, treated the patients, and performed hospital-simulated staffings. Medical record administration (MRA) students assessed and provided in-service on documentation practices, developed a record-keeping system, and designed forms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Simulated grading decisions of allied health educators. Part II: Variations in causal attributions.	The present study investigated the causal attributions of allied health faculty to hypothetical student achievement data. Faculty rated linear and nonlinear (ascending or descending) grade profiles along ten causal dimensions. As predicted, student ability and effort attributions were prominent for ascending and uniformly high performance while external factors were more prevalent for descending and uniformly low performance. Faculty also used a diverse set of attributions in rating the performance profiles. Faculty age and length of clinical experience appeared to have mediating effects on perceptions of causality for declining student performance. Overall, these results suggest that allied health faculty demonstrate predictable patterns of causal attributions, yet differ in several important aspects from that expected from previous research.
A comparison of the performance of role-play and non-role-play students at interview.	This article compares the performance of role-play and non-role-play students at an interview resembling a viva voce examination. Diagnostic and therapy radiography students were given a mock viva voce examination at which they were asked how they would respond to patients showing emotional difficulties during a radiographic procedure. Voce questions showed that students who had experienced role-play during training were more likely to cope with the patient's difficulties. The results of this survey are believed to indicate the value of role-play in radiography student training and to corroborate the use of the viva voce examination for assessing aspects of the affective domain.
Illegibility of prescriptions: some worrisome implications.	Stimulated by frustration, we have begun an effort to quantify the impact of illegibility of prescriptions on both potential error rates and time consumed in filling prescriptions. In an experimental situation, despite more than 14 seconds being expended on each prescription, almost 30% of the interpretations were erroneous. The implications for patient care and for negligence allegations, plus for the costs of both, are obvious.
A statistical analysis of Modified Clinical Technique vision screening of preschoolers by optometry students.	Fourth year optometry students screened 745 preschoolers using a slightly altered Modified Clinical Technique (MCT) under the supervision of a faculty doctor. Children who failed the MCT were randomly selected and then matched by age, sex, and ethnic origin to children who had passed the screening battery. The 61 screening failures and 45 matched controls were later given full eye examinations with cycloplegia by University of Alabama at Birmingham faculty doctors who were unaware of the screening results. The positive predictive value (PPV) (0.52) and negative predictive value (NPV) (0.78) of the MCT were calculated directly from the 2 x 2 contingency table crossing screening results and a standard diagnosis. Sensitivity [0.50, k(1,0) = 0.29], specificity [0.79, k(0,0) = 0.30], efficiency [0.70, k(0.5,0) = 0.29] of the MCT, and the prevalence (0.30) of children failing the standard diagnosis were estimated using statistics appropriate to the prospective sampling design. The reproducibility of the diagnosis, estimated by analyzing multiple, independent diagnosis of each study child by seven doctors was moderate (kappa D 0.58). Statistics summarizing the agreement between the MCT and the diagnosis by the individual study doctor are similar to those obtained with comparison to the standard diagnosis. The characteristics of the MCT may be generalized only to similar populations that are screened by clinicians with similar experience, using the same tests.
A comparison of personality types among female student health professionals.	The purpose of the study reported here was to focus on the personality traits of six groups of women students in medicine, pharmacy, medical technology, physical therapy, dietetics, and occupational therapy. The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator was administered to all groups to measure Extroversion-Introversion, Sensing-Intuition, Thinking-Feeling, and Judging-Perception. Results show that (a) medical students in contrast to the other five groups are guided more by thinking than feelings in their approach to work and people and (b) pharmacy students prefer well-planned, routine work in contrast to occupational therapy students who like changing situations and flexibility. Some implications of these findings for the health team are mentioned.
Verbal communication between students in multidisciplinary health teams.	The study reported here was connected with the influence of two variables--the context in which communication occurs, and the concept availability of various health professionals--upon the verbal interaction of various health professionals. Specifically, the verbal output of health professionals in groups consisting entirely of their own professional peers (i.e. all nurses, or all medical students) was compared with that of professionals in multidisciplinary health teams. The study, in attempting to delineate possible barriers to effective verbal interaction, has important implications for the functioning of multidisciplinary health teams.
Blessed are the flexible: the George Team.	Our educational efforts produced several intersecting interdisciplinary groups: faculty, students, faculty/students and our community sites, with faculty, clinical staff, and students. As we worked through the issues, these interdisciplinary teams found that commitment to change, caring for patients, and open, honest communication were essential to keeping the project teams on track. We have increased our understanding of both the complexity and value of interdisciplinary collaborative education. The LIT faculty provided the initial guidance and support, the students energized the process, and our community sites made our learning and our contributions readily available to our patient populations. It is not easy to learn and teach the language and tools of continuous improvement, but doing so infinitely improves the educational process and the clinical outcome. We must learn to carefully listen to each other so that our patients can fully reap the benefits of our interdisciplinary team efforts. As a result of what we learned, the members of the George Team have expanded our motto to "Blessed Are the Flexible--and the Perseverant!"
Students or employees: a federal threat to radiologic technology education.	The Fair Labor Standards Act, also known as the "Wage and Hour Law," has been expanded to include health professionals in radiologic technology programs as interpreted by functionaries of the Department of Labor. This interpretation is diametrically opposed to that of hospital administrators and program directors. It remains for federal courts to decide whether technology students are indeed students or hospital employees, deserving of minimum wages by their "employers." Program directors are advised to litigate any claims by field representatives of the Department of Labor who claim that technology students are hospital employees and not legitimate students in a bona fide school. The federal loan program recognized technology students as true students rather than employees, thereby exempting them from qualification for the minimum wage rules. If students in programs of radiologic technology are viewed as employees, the additional cost to most hospitals could destroy the system of training as we now know it.
Effects of unilateral strength training and detraining on bone mineral mass and estimated mechanical characteristics of the upper limb bones in young women.	The aims of this study were to examine the effects of 12 months unilateral high-resistance strength training and 8-month detraining on bone mineral content (BMC), density (BMD) and estimated mechanical characteristics of upper limb bones, and also to estimate consequent loading induced strains on forearm bone shafts. Thirteen female physiotherapy students (mean 23.8 +/- 5.0 yrs, 166 +/- 7 cm, 64.4 +/- 7 cm, 64.4 +/- 13.3 kg) trained their left upper limbs with dumbbells on average 2.8 times per week for 12 months, followed by eight months detraining. Nineteen students served as controls (mean 25.7 +/- 5.2 yrs, 165 +/- 4 cm, 62.1 +/- 7.0 kg). BMC, BMD, and bone width and estimated cortical wall thickness (CWT) were measured at five different sites in both upper extremities (proximal humerus, humeral shaft, radial shaft, ulnar shaft, and distal forearm) using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanner. In addition, cross-sectional moment of inertia (CSMI) was estimated from DXA data. The maximal isometric strength of the upper extremities was measured with an arm flexion-extension dynamometer. The training increased significantly the flexion strength by 14% (p = 0.001). During the detraining period, all measured strength values in the training group decreased in both limbs with respect to values after training. Despite the clear effect on muscular strength, no significant intergroup differences were observed in BMC, BMD, bone width, CWT, or CSMI values at any measured site after the training or detraining period. The estimated loading-induced strains remained within customary loading, and the change in strain level was only 15%. In conclusion, this study indicated that using high-resistance strength training may not provide an effective osteogenic stimulus for bone formation and geometric changes in upper limb bones of young, healthy, adult women. The interaction of bones and muscles may play an important and relatively unrecognized role in the development of bone strength, suggesting that the entire biomechanical environment should be carefully considered when evaluating the osteogenic efficiency of physical loading.
Learning physiotherapy: students' ways of experiencing the patient encounter.	The aim of this paper was to describe and analyse the impact of formal education and professional experience on physiotherapy students' ways of experiencing interaction within a patient encounter.
