Two plant fish-poisons in Lebanon.	The use of a powder for poisoning sea fish off Lebanon is reported for the first time. The powder is prepared from the seeds of storax (Styrax officinalis L) and tubers of common cyclamen (Cyclamen persicum Mill.), both species growing wild in Lebanon. References to the properties of these species are provided.
Erythrodiol-3-acetate, pentacyclic triterpenoid from Styrax japonica, expressions of matrix metalloproteinase-1,2 in cultured human skin fibroblasts.	Although many studies have been performed to elucidate the molecular consequences of ultraviolet irradiation, little is known about the effect of natural products. Ultraviolet irradiation is widely considered to be an environmental stress. Here we investigated the effect of erythrodiol-3-acetate on the expressions of MMP-1,2 in cultured human skin fibroblasts. Erythrodiol-3-acetate was isolated from the stems of Styrax japonica (Styracaceae). Erythrodiol-3-acetate reduced the expression of MMP-1 but not MMP-2, at the mRNA and protein levels in a dose-dependent manner by ultraviolet irradiation. Taken together, our results suggest that erythrodiol-3-acetate an important role in the reduction of MMP-1 induction by ultraviolet irradiation.
2-aryl benzofurans and their derivatives from seeds of Styrax macranthus.	Two new 2-aryl benzofuran derivatives, 3-[7-methoxy-2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl) benzofuran-5-yl]propyl 3-[7-methoxy-2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)benzofuran-5-yl]propanoate (1) and demethoxy egonol gentiobioside (2), were isolated from the aqueous ethanolic extract of the seeds of Styrax macranthus, together with 7-methoxy-2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)benzofuran-5-carbaldehyde, egonol, demethoxy egonol, demethyl egonol, egonol glucoside, egonol gentiobioside, egonol gentiotrioside, stigmasterol, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl tetracosoate, and daucosterol. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectral and chemical evidence.
Synthesis of egonol derivatives and their antimicrobial activities.	Eighteen derivatives of egonol (A-R) were synthesized and evaluated for their antimicrobial activities against Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213, Bacillus subtilis ATCC 6633, Candida albicans ATCC 10231 and Escherichia coli ATCC 8739 microorganisms comparing with egonol. The obtained data reported that compound B exhibited improved activities against all tested bacteria than egonol, others have shown different range of activities.
Sutureless skin graft reconstruction of the exenterated orbit.	We present a rapid method for fixation of split-thickness skin grafts to the exenterated orbit using Steri-Strips and tincture of benzoin.
