Delayed hydrocephalus as an unusual complication of a stab injury to the spine.	Case report.
Superficial siderosis of the central nervous system following cervical nerve root avulsion: the importance of early diagnosis and surgery.	Superficial siderosis (SS) of the central nervous system is an insidious, progressive, irreversible and debilitating neurological disorder caused by recurrent haemorrhage within the subarachnoid space. The subsequent deposition of haemorrhagic breakdown products in the spinal cord and nervous tissues leads to the loss of neurones and myelin, and to the development of a neurological deficit. In a small number of patients, the source of haemorrhage is related to traumatic cervical nerve root avulsion occurring several years prior to the onset of symptoms. Surgical ablation of the source has been shown to halt the progression of the disease, at least in the short term. We review the literature on SS secondary to cervical nerve root avulsion and report a further case in which surgical management was successful in halting disease progression. We emphasize that early detection and recognition of the initial non-progressive symptoms related to this poorly known disease, coupled with timely surgical management, minimizes the degree of neurological disability.
Traumatic acute spinal subarachnoid hematoma.	This report describes a 66-year-old man who presented with progressive paraparesis after a fall. Magnetic resonance imaging showed an acute spinal hematoma at T11-12 with spinal cord compression. The patient underwent an emergency left T11-12 hemilaminectomy. The hematoma was subarachnoid and the source of bleeding was an injured radicular vein. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of traumatic spinal subarachnoid hematoma. We discuss the possible mechanism and our case illustrates an injured radicular vein can be a source of traumatic spinal subarachnoid hematoma.
Comprehensive assessment of isolated traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage.	Recent studies have shown that isolated traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (tSAH) in the setting of a high Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score (13-15) is a relatively less severe finding not likely to require operative neurosurgical intervention. This study sought to provide a more comprehensive assessment of isolated tSAH among patients with any GCS score, and to expand the analysis to examine the potential need for aggressive medical, endovascular, or open surgical interventions in these patients. By undertaking a retrospective review of all patients admitted to our trauma center from 2003-2012, we identified 661 patients with isolated tSAH. Only four patients (0.61%) underwent any sort of aggressive neurosurgical, medical, or endovascular intervention, regardless of GCS score. Most tSAH patients without additional systemic injury were discharged home (68%), including 53% of patients with a GCS score of 3-8. However, older patients were more likely to be discharged to a rehabilitation facility (p<0.01). There were six (1.7%) in-hospital deaths, and five patients of these patients were older than 80 years old. We conclude that isolated tSAH, regardless of admission GCS score, is a less severe intracranial injury that is highly unlikely to require aggressive operative, medical, or endovascular intervention, and is unlikely to be associated with major neurologic morbidity or mortality, except perhaps in elderly patients. Based upon our findings, we argue that impaired consciousness in the setting of isolated tSAH should strongly compel a consideration of non-traumatic factors in the etiology of the altered neurological status.
