Recurrent congenital bilateral ranula: a case report.	A case of congenital bilateral ranula in a one-week-old male baby is reported. At presentation the cyst measured 3.5 x 2.5 cm but did not interfere with feeding. Initial marsupialisation resulted in recurrence of the cyst. It was subsequently re-excised completely together with the associated sublingual salivary gland. The cyst has not recurred six months after treatment. The usually large size of the cyst and its bilateral presentation makes this an interesting case.
Effect of thyroidectomy on the histology of rat sublingual gland.	This study was carried out to investigate the effect of thyroidectomy on the histology of rat sublingual gland. Twenty-eight male Wistar albino rats, aged 4 weeks and weighing between 45-55 g, were used. The rats were divided into two experimental groups (control and thyroidectomy), each containing 14 animals. Total thyroidectomy of rats was performed under ether anesthesia in thyroidectomy group. The rats in the control group were sham operated without having the thyroidectomy. Seven rats randomly selected from both groups were fixed using the perfusion fixation technique 2 and 6 weeks after thyroidectomy, and their sublingual glands were harvested for histological investigation. No histological difference was observed between the two groups 2 weeks after thyroidectomy. However, 6 weeks after thyroidectomy considerable cytoplasmic vacuolization of the epithelial cells of the mucous tubules was seen in the thyroidectomy group compared to the controls. Enlargement of mucous tubules was also observed, and the lumina in most of the tubules was quite dilated. In the stroma surrounding the parenchymal tissues, increased lipid tissue mass was observed. In addition, increased connective tissue mass and mononuclear cell infiltrations were evident. Furthermore, the number of mast cells was significantly higher in the thyroidectomy group than in the controls 6 weeks after thyroidectomy. It was concluded that the thyroid gland and hormones might have an influence on the histology of the sublingual gland.
Adenoid cystic carcinoma associated with salivary duct cyst in the sublingual gland.	We described an extremely rare case of adenoid cystic carcinoma associated with salivary duct cyst in the sublingual gland of a 40-year-old Japanese woman. The tumor was growing from the cyst wall and almost occluded the cyst lumen. The epithelium lining the cyst lumen contained both keratin 19-positive cells and alpha-smooth muscle actin-positive cells, indicating the cyst being derived from the acinus/intercalated duct of the sublingual gland. Therefore, our case has presented for the first time a direct evidence that adenoid cystic carcinoma arises from acinus/intercalated duct.
Mylohyoid herniation of the sublingual gland diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging.	Mylohyoid herniation of the sublingual gland has been a frequent finding at dissection of adult human cadavers and at retrospective studies of computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the floor of the mouth. Even so, very few clinical reports exist. The present report describes an adolescent boy with a suspected submental tumour, which at MRI was shown to be caused by a mylohyoid hernia of part of an enlarged, but otherwise normal sublingual gland.
A Stafne's cavity with unusual location in the mandibular anterior area.	The typical Stafne's cavity, located on the posterior portion of the mandible, is a relatively uncommon entity. However, when the defect is located in the anterior region of the mandible, it is quite rare, having thus far been described in only 36 cases in the scientific literature. Most of these defects appear in the fifth and sixth decades of life, are localized to the area of the canines and premolars, and have a predilection for males. The inferior dental canal, one of the anatomical-radiographic landmarks that aid in the diagnosis of Stafne's cavity in the posterior region, is rarely present anterior the mental foramen. For this reason, because of its more variable radiographic appearance compared to the posterior defect, its tendency to be superimposed over the apices of the teeth, and the rarity of its localisation to the anterior mandible, it is much more difficult to establish a definitive diagnosis of a Stafne's cavity in this location. It is therefore more likely that a diagnostic error can occur, especially early on. We present a new case in a 68-year-old male in which the diagnosis was serendipitous, and we review in particular the aetiology and pathogenesis, clinical aspects, and differential diagnoses for this condition.
Congenital ranula in a newborn]	Ranulas are cystic lesions in the floor of the mouth. They are either retention cysts of the excretory duct of the sublingual gland or pseudocysts formed by excretory duct rupture followed by extravasation and accumulation of mucus in the surrounding tissue. We report the case of a premature newborn with a congenital ranula in the floor of mouth. The ranula caused no discomfort or complications, so that immediate intervention was not necessary. The cyst resolved completely by the age of 4 months. Complications in newborns especially include airway obstruction and feeding difficulties. Surgical treatment options are needle aspiration, excision of the ranula, marsupialization, cryosurgery, and--in addition to excision of the cyst--removal of the ipsilateral sublingual gland. Sclerotherapy has shown good results as well. As many congenital cysts resolve or rupture spontaneously, they should be observed for potential resolution for several months in uncomplicated cases.
Solitary fibrous tumor with pseudo-lipoblasts involving the sublingual gland: report of a case and review of the literature.	Solitary fibrous tumors (SFTs) are mesenchymal neoplasms uncommonly occurring in the salivary glands. In rare instances, SFTs can contain mature fat, atrophic fat, or vacuolated cells previously termed 'pseudo-lipoblasts', which may be misinterpreted as a feature of malignancy. We report an unusual tumor with pseudo-lipoblasts occurring in the sublingual gland. The tumor exhibited a prominent hemangiopericytic pattern, bland cytology, and immunohistochemical and morphologic features consistent with that of an SFT. A review of 15 cases of SFTs of the salivary glands is presented. Emphasis is laid upon the histologic differential diagnosis and the clinical features of these tumors.
Conservative treatment of oral ranula by excision with minimal excision of the sublingual gland: histological support for a traumatic etiology.	This study investigates, clinically and histologically, a new conservative technique for the treatment of oral ranula based on the premise that a discrete unit of the sublingual gland feeds the ranula, which can therefore be treated by local removal with the attached part of the sublingual gland.
The plunging ranula: diagnostic difficulties and a less invasive approach to treatment.	Plunging ranulas arise when a simple ranula extends beyond the floor of the mouth into the neck. Diagnosis is difficult even with modern imaging techniques as they mimic other neck lesions, and traditional treatment involves enucleation of the cyst from the neck. Despite this invasive surgery they tend to recur. We describe a less invasive approach to treatment and review the diagnostic pitfalls. From 2002 to 2011, eight patients presented with a plunging ranula. They were split into two groups: those for whom an incorrect diagnosis was made and those where a less invasive treatment approach was employed. Three patients were misdiagnosed with cervical lymphangioma and had inappropriately invasive surgery. Five patients with established plunging ranulas were treated using an intraoral approach alone, eliminating the need for a cervical incision. Misdiagnosis of a plunging ranula leads to extensive and unnecessary surgery. We propose an algorithm to simplify investigation that employs a low threshold for fine-needle aspiration cytology. The cases presented indicate that these lesions can be managed by a less invasive procedure than currently practised. 
Pouting sublinguals: enlarged salivary glands in myxoedema.	Enlarged salivary glands are common in patients with hypothyroidism but this finding is not widely appreciated. Although chronic painless enlargement of the salivary glands was reported in papers published 50-60 years ago, mainly in German, it is not mentioned in current textbooks on the thyroid. Along with the parotids, the submandibular and especially the sublingual glands may be quite enlarged, and the enlargement can be a useful clue to the diagnosis of hypothyroidism. The gland enlargement regresses at least partly after thyroid replacement therapy.
Morphologic alterations in the trachea and the salivary gland following the induction of rapid synchronous vitamin A deficiency in rats.	The use of the synchronous induction method enables both assessment of the sequence and reliability of the appearance of morphologic signs of vitamin A deficiency, and their accurate correlation with biochemical and physiologic abnormalities. In the trachea, hyperplasia of basal epithelial cells was observed by Day 4 (T4) following the withdrawal of retinoic acid from retinoate-cycled, stringently deficient rats. Keratinization was observed by Day 6, the upper part of the trachea showing the highest incidence of keratinization. All such metaplastic changes originated in the narrow strip of tissue directly cojoining the esophagus. In the submaxillary glands, atrophy of the acini, an increase in interlobular spaces, and fibrosis and dilatation of the ducts was observed by Day 10. In more advanced stages of deficiency (T14-T18), cyst formation associated with suppuration and extensive cell atrophy was observed. Morphologic changes were less marked in the sublingual glands, although mucin levels were noticeably depressed by Day 12 of deficiency. Following the oral dosing of deficient animals (T12) with 350 micrograms retinyl palmitate, all such changes were reversed within 6 days in the trachea and within 10 days in the submaxillary and sublingual glands. Similar patterns were observed whether animals were force-fed or were fed ad libitum. Apart, therefore, from cause-effect considerations per se, morphologic changes are also potentially valuable reference indicators of deficiency, particularly in time course studies, or where force-feeding attenuates other signs of deficiency.
Ultrastructural localization of microliths in salivary glands of cat.	Although microliths occur in normal human salivary glands and may be an aetiological factor of sialadenitis, little is known of their natural history. In an attempt to remedy this, we investigated a large archival collection of normal and experimental feline parotid, submandibular and sublingual salivary glands. In submandibular and sublingual glands, microliths were detected ultrastructurally in: all types of acinar secretory cells; myoepithelial cells; ductal cells; lumina; intercellular spaces; basement membrane; stroma; macrophages; multinuclear giant cells; and neutrophils. Microliths were not detected ultrastructurally in parotid glands. Microliths appear to form in acinar cells during autophagy and in stagnant secretory material in lumina. Microliths appear to be removed by secretion in the saliva, discharge from cells laterally and basally, and engulfment by macrophages. There appears to be a turnover of microliths, which possibly is upset by secretory inactivity with a resulting accumulation that leads to localized obstruction and sialadenitis.
Mucolipidosis type II with evidence of a novel storage site.	In a case of infantile mucolipidosis type II (I-cell disease), storage was identified at autopsy in serous-type secretory cells in exocrine pancreas, in the tracheal and sublingual salivary glands and in the chief (zymogenic) cells of the gastric oxyntic glands, suggesting a systemic involvement of this type of secretory cells. The content of specific secretory granules was inversely proportional to the intensity of the storage process. The mucus-producing cells were not affected. The serous glandular system is a novel storage site in I-cell disease. Review of archival material in three further cases confirmed the findings.
