Synchronous pleomorphic adenomas of the major salivary glands: a case report.	The presentation of multiple distinct tumors in major salivary glands is rare. Although the most common tumor with bilateral synchronous or metachronous development is the Warthin tumor, pleomorphic adenomas have been diagnosed simultaneously as well. We report the case of a female patient who was diagnosed with pleomorphic adenomas in the right parotid and submandibular glands, concomitant with sialolithiasis affecting the submandibular gland. This patient had been exposed to head and neck radiotherapy in childhood, which may have played a role in the development of her tumors. A review of the relevant literature is included.
Migrating salivary stones: report of three cases.	Patients with salivary calculi are normally managed by removal of the calculus or, if necessary, the affected gland. If it is left untreated, a stone may migrate into the adjacent tissues. We present three patients in whom salivary calculi tracked to the surface of the skin. Two were removed under local anaesthetic, and the third patient was lost to follow up.
A case of a giant submandibular gland calculus perforating the floor of the mouth.	Sialolithiasis is characterized by the obstruction of salivary gland secretion by a calculus. It is associated with swelling, pain, and infection of the affected gland. More than 80% of all salivary calculi occur in the submandibular gland. One reason for this is the makeup of the saliva in the submandibular gland, which includes a higher mucus content, a greater degree of alkalinity, and greater concentrations of calcium and phosphate salts compared with the saliva of the parotid and sublingual glands. Other factors are that its duct is longer and its saliva flows against gravity. Sialoliths that reach several centimeters in diameter (megaliths, or giant calculi) are rare. Perforation of the floor of the mouth by a giant calculus is extremely rare. We report such a case in a 56-year-old man who presented with a 2-day history of severe pain in the left sublingual area and painful swelling in the left submandibular area. Removal of the stone and the left submandibular gland was performed via an extraoral incision. On gross examination, the sialolith measured 5.6 cm.
The importance of early intervention in the treatment of dental infection.	With recent reports of increasing hospital admissions relating to dental infection, the authors believe it is time to re-visit the importance of its effective early treatment. A series of three cases is used to illustrate the potentially life-threatening progression of what, in the early stages, is an easily treatable condition.
