Addiction treatment in the mid-1990s.	The rapid and dramatic changes now transforming the American healthcare system are also being felt in the addiction treatment field. How this change will be manifested in the structure, content and financing of substance abuse treatment over the next three to five years is described in the following article.
Prevalence and correlates of nonmedical use of prescription opioids in patients seen in a residential drug and alcohol treatment program.	Population-based data indicate that rates of nonmedical use of prescription opioids (POs) have increased dramatically over the past decade. However, data are lacking on nonmedical use of POs in individuals seeking treatment for substance use disorders. Patients (N = 351) seeking treatment from a residential drug and alcohol treatment program were assessed for nonmedical use of POs prior to treatment entry. Approximately 68% (65% men and 78% women) of patients reported at least some nonmedical PO use in the 30 days prior to treatment. Our results indicate that nonmedical PO use was more common in those with higher levels of depressive symptoms and pain intensity and in those with lower physical functioning. Treatment programs should consider actively screening participants for nonmedical PO use and consider how nonmedical use of pain medications might influence their treatment planning for patients.
Trends in substance abuse treatment 1998-2008: increasing older adult first-time admissions for illicit drugs.	To see whether the percentage of older adults entering substance abuse treatment for their first time was increasing and whether there were changes in the use patterns leading to the treatment episode, particularly an increase in illicit drugs.
Correlates of drug use cessation among participants in the Canadian HIV-HCV Co-infection Cohort.	Ongoing drug use remains a barrier to HIV and HCV treatment. We examined the occurrence and correlates of drug use cessation among HIV-HCV co-infected drug users participating in HIV care.
Longitudinal trajectories of readiness to change: alcohol use and help-seeking behavior.	Pre-post changes in readiness for change (RC) are commonly assessed in treatment outcome studies, often with contradictory results. Little is known about 12-month RC trajectories among those initiating change or about the association between RC and either within- or between-person alcohol use or time-lagged help-seeking behavior.
Trends in the characteristics of clients of alcohol/drug treatment services in Ontario.	This paper summarizes the major trends in the characteristics of clients of alcohol/drug treatment services in Ontario from 1979 to 1989. Data were obtained from all provincial treatment programs by surveys undertaken in 1980, 1983, 1986 and 1989. Supplementary archival data are included on the use of American treatment programs by Ontario residents. Across the period of analysis, there has been a rapid increase in the number of alcohol/drug programs and the total treatment case-load. Trends in client characteristics include increased representation of women in the treatment case-load and a shift towards greater drug involvement with or without concomitant alcohol use. In contrast, there has been a small decrease in the proportion of young or elderly clients. The utilization of American treatment services by Ontario residents may partially reflect needs of special target groups, such as adolescents, which are not being met within the Ontario treatment system.
Observations on the recent history of drug user counseling.	The drug user counselor role is explored in terms of its changing nature over the course of the past 25 years. Initially, the drug user counselor could be characterized as a professional based on his or her experience, or as an ex-addict paraprofessional in the language of that time. Working very largely with a heroin-using clientele, the counselor was the advisor and role model who could not be conned and, thereby, the essential counterpart to the mental health professionals who were entering the drug misuse field. Over time, these latter professionals based on education have become increasingly evident and the "professionals of experience" have become less so in accord with changes in the demography, drug-using characteristics, and psychological functioning of drug user clients. Nonetheless, studies that support the particular efficacy of counselors of education for all but drug user clients with significant psychopathology are lacking. Moreover, aspects of therapeutic interaction that are more largely engaged in by "professionals of experience" are threatened by the diminution in that group's numbers and the credentialing out of nontraditional job functions. Over the past few years, awareness of the significance of the contributions of "professionals of experience" has been reawakened by the threat of AIDS and the recognition of counselors' contributions to outreach and AIDS prevention counseling.
Treatment and services for drug users in Britain.	The pattern of British drug service provision was transformed during the late 1980s. Policy makers and service providers recognised the need for a more flexible response to changing drug trends and client needs; consequently community-based services proliferated. HIV has had considerable impact on the working approach of many agencies, where harm minimisation is now the immediate goal. This article provides an overview of patterns of drug use and drug service provision in Britain.
